As ready as I ever shall be . 
Why , Ned Newton , you're not getting afraid are you ? And after you've been on so many trips with me ? No , it isn't exactly that , Tom . 
I'd go in a minute if you didn't have this new fangled thing on your airship . 
But how do you know how it's going to work or whether it will work at all ? We may come a cropper . 
Bless my insurance policy ! exclaimed a man who was standing near the two lads who were conversing . 
You'd better keep near the ground , Tom . 
Oh , that's all right , Mr. Damon , answered Tom Swift . 
There isn't any more danger than there ever was , but I guess Ned is nervous since our trip to the underground city of gold . 
I am not ! indignantly exclaimed the other lad , with a look at the young inventor . 
You , yourself , said it wasn't as reliable as before , even though it does go faster . 
Now look here , Ned ! burst out Tom . 
That was last week that I said it wasn't reliable . 
But I don't blame Ned Say , look here ! cried Tom , a little out of patience , you know me better than that , Ned . 
Of course your more than ballast I want you to help me manage the craft since I made the changes on her . 
Now if you don't want to come , why say so , and I'll get Eradicate . 
Well , now , Masa Tom , I shorely would laik t' 'blige yo' , I shore would . 
But de fack ob de mattah am dat I has a mos' particular job ob white washin' t' do dish mornin' , an' I 'spects I'd better be gittin' at it . 
It's a mos' particiilar job , an' , only fo' dat , I'd be mos' pleased t' go up in de airship . 
Well , of all things ! gasped Tom . 
I believe you're all afraid of the old airship , just because I wade some changes in her . 
I'll go up alone , that's what I will . 
No , I'll go with you , interposed Ned Newton who was Tom's most particular chum . 
I only wanted to be sure it was all right , that was all . 
Well , if you've fully made up your mind , went on the young inventor , a little mollified , lend me a hand to get her in shape for a run . 
I expect to make faster time than I ever did before , and I'm going to head out Waterford way . 
You'd better come along , Mr. Damon , and I'll drop you off at your house . 
Bless my feather bed ! gasped the man . 
Drop me off ! I like that , Tom Swift ! Oh , I didn't mean it exactly that way , laughed Tom . 
Tom had built it some years before , and it had seemed good enough then . 
Later he constructed some of different models , besides the big combination affair , and he had gone on several trips in that . 
Understand , Tom , spoke Ned , it isn't because I don't think you know how to work an aeroplane that I hesitated . 
I've been up in the air with you enough times to know that you're there with the goods , but I don't believe even you know what this machine is going to do . 
I can pretty nearly tell . 
I'm sure my theory is right . 
She'll fly , and she won't come down until I'm ready to let her . 
So you needn't worry about getting hurt . 
All right if you say so . 
Now what do you want me to do , Tom ? Go over the wire guys and stays for the first thing . 
There's going to be lots of vibration , with the re built motor , and I want everything tight . 
Aye , aye , sir ! answered Ned with a laugh . 
Then he set at his task , tightening the small nuts , and screwing up the turn buckles , while Tom busied himself over the motor . 
There was some small trouble with the carburetor that needed eliminating before it would feed properly . 
How about the tires ? asked Ned , when he had finished the wires . 
You might pump them up . 
There , the motor is all right . 
I'm going to try it now , while you attend to the tires . 
What in the world happened , Tom ? he yelled , for he had to use all his lung power to be heard above that racket . 
Did it explode ? Explode nothing ! shouted Tom . 
That's the re built motor in action . 
In action ! I should say it was in action . 
No , I have the muffler cut out , and that's why she barks so . 
But she runs easier that way , and I want to get her smoothed out a bit . 
Whew ! That smoke ! gasped his chum . 
It is sort of thick , admitted Tom . 
But that's only because she's getting too much oil . 
She'll clear in a few minutes . 
Stick around and we'll go up . 
Then Tom adjusted the muffler , and most of the noise stopped . 
Come on back , and finish pumping up the tires , he shouted to Ned . 
I'm going to stop her now , and then I'll give her the pressure test , and we'll take a trip . 
How much pressure do you want ? asked Ned . 
I ought to get above twelve hundred With the way the motor is geared , but I'll go up with ten . 
Watch the needle for me . 
It may be explained that when aeroplanes are tested on the earth the propellers are set in motion . 
Anywhere from five hundred to nine hundred pounds of thrust will take a monoplane or biplane up . 
But Tom wanted more than this . 
Once more the motor coughed and spluttered , and the big blades whirled about so fast that they seemed like solid pieces of wood . 
Tom stood on the ground near the levers which controlled the speed , and Ned watched the scale . 
How much ? yelled the young inventor . 
Tom turned on a little more gasolene . 
How much ? he cried again . 
That'll do ! No , I'm going to try for more . 
Again he advanced the spark and gasolene levers , and the comparatively frail craft vibrated so that it seemed as if she would fly apart . 
Eleven hundred and fifty ! cried Ned . 
Good ! That'll do it . 
She'll give more after she's been running a while . 
Ned scrambled to his seat , and Tom followed . 
He had an arrangement so that he could slip loose the retaining rope from his perch whenever he was ready . 
Waiting until the motor had run another minute , the young inventor pulled the rope that released them . 
Over the smooth starting ground that formed a part of the Swift homestead darted the aeroplane . 
Faster and faster she moved , Ned gripping the sides of his seat . 
Here we go ! cried Tom , and the next instant they shot up into the air . 
Ned Newton had ridden many times with his chum Tom , and the sensation of gliding through the upper regions was not new to him . 
But this time there was something different . 
The propellers seemed to take hold of the air with a firmer grip . 
There was more power , and certainly the speed was terrific . 
We're going fast ! yelled Ned into Tom's ear . 
That's right , agreed the young inventor . 
She'll beat anything but my Sky Racer , and she'd do that if she was the same size . 
Tom referred to a very small aeroplane he had made some time before . 
It was like some big bird , and very swift . 
Up and onward went the remodeled airship , faster and faster , until , when several miles had been covered , Ned realized that the young inventor had achieved another triumph . 
It's great , Tom ! Great ! he yelled . 
Yes , I guess it will do , Ned . 
If there was an international meet now I'd capture some of the prizes . 
As it is Tom stopped suddenly . 
I don't know a breakdown of some kind . 
Can you get it going again ? I'm going to try . 
Tom was manipulating various levers , but with no effect . 
The aeroplane was shooting downward with frightful rapidity . 
No use ! exclaimed the young inventor . 
But We're falling , Tom ! I know it . 
I'm going to volplane to earth . 
This , it may be explained , is gliding downward from a height with the engine shut off . 
Aeroplanists often do it , and Tom was no novice at the art . 
They shot downward with less speed now , for the young inventor had thrown up his headplanes to act as a sort of brake . 
Now to see what the trouble is , remarked our hero , as he climbed out of his seat and began looking over the engine . 
He poked in among the numerous cogs , wheels and levers , and finally uttered an exclamation . 
Find it ? asked Ned . 
Yes , it's in the magneto . 
All the platinum bearings and contact surfaces have fused and crystallized . 
I never saw such poor platinum as I've been getting lately , and I pay the highest prices for it , too . 
The trouble is that the supply of platinum is giving out , and they'll have to find a substitute I guess . 
Can't we go home in her ? asked Ned . 
I've got to put in new platinum bearings and contacts before she'll spark . 
I only wish I could get hold of some of the better kind of metal . 
The magneto of an aeroplane performs a service similar to one in an automobile . 
Well , I guess it's walk for ours , said Ned ruefully . 
I'm afraid so , went on Tom . 
Did I hear you say you needed some platinum ? he asked . 
He spoke with a foreign accent , and Tom at once put him down for a Russian . 
Yes , I need some for my magneto , began the young inventor . 
If you will kindly step up to my house , perhaps I can give you what you want , went on the man . 
My name is Ivan Petrofsky , and I have only lately come to live here . 
I'm Tom Swift , of Shopton , and this is my chum , Ned Newton , replied the young inventor , completing the introductions . 
He was wondering why the man , who seemed a cultured gentleman , should live in such a lonely place , and he was wondering too how he happened to have some platinum . 
Will that answer ? asked Mr. Petrofsky , when they had reached his house , and he had handed Tom several strips of the precious silverlike metal . 
Where did you get it , if I may ask ? It came from a lost mine in Siberia , was the unexpected answer . 
A lost mine ? gasped Tom . 
In Siberia ? added Ned . 
Mr. Petrofsky slowly nodded his head , and smiled , but rather sadly . 
Tom and Ned stood looking at the bearded man , and then the young inventor glanced at the platinum strips in his hand while a strange and daring thought came to him . 
Those who have read the previous books of this series need no introduction to him , but in justice to my new readers I must make a little explanation . 
Tom Swift was an inventor , as was his father before him . 
But Mr. Swift was getting too old , now , to do much , though he had a pet invention that of a gyroscope on which he worked from time to time . 
Tom lived with his father in the village of Shopton , in New York state . 
His mother was dead , but a housekeeper , named Mrs. Baggert , looked after the wants of the inventors , young and old . 
That disgusted Mr. Damon with motor cycling , and Tom had lots of fun on the machine , and not a few daring adventures . 
He and Mr. Damon became firm friends , and the oddity of the gentleman mainly that of blessing everything he could think of was no objection in Tom's mind . 
The young inventor and Ned Newton went on many trips together , Mr. Damon being one of the party . 
In Shopton lived Andy Foger , a bullying sort of a chap , who acted very meanly toward Tom at times . 
Another resident of the town was a Mr. Nestor , but Tom was more interested in his daughter Mary than in the head of the household . 
Then Tom built an airship , which had been the height of his ambition for some years . 
Tom had not been home from Africa long before he got a letter from this missionary , telling about an underground City in Mexico that was said to be filled with gold . 
Tom went there , and in the book , entitled , Tom Swift in the City of Gold , I related his adventures . 
Then , after pulling down , in the centre of the underground city , the big golden statue , the door of rock descended , and made our friends prisoners . 
There was a fight , but our hero's party escaped with considerable gold and safely reached Shopton . 
Now , after a winter spent in work , fixing over an old aeroplane , we again meet Tom . 
But where did you get such pure metal ? asked Tom . 
I have never seen it's equal . 
There is none like it in all the world , went on the Russian , and perhaps there never can be any more . 
I have only a small supply . 
But in Siberia in the lost mine there is a large quantity of it , as pure as this , needing only a little refining . 
Can't we get some from there ? asked the young inventor eagerly . 
I should think the Russian government would mine it , and export it . 
This is getting interesting , remarked Ned to Tom in a low voice , and the young inventor nodded . 
Petersburg , and early in life , though we were of the nobility , we took up the cause of the common people . 
Nihilists ? asked Ned eagerly , for he had read something of these desperate men . 
No , and not anarchists , said Mr. Petrofsky with a sad smile . 
Our party was opposed to violence , and we depended on education to aid our cause . 
Then , too , we did all we could in a quiet way to help the poor . 
But my brother , and I persisted , with the result that we were both arrested , and , with a number of others were sent to Siberia . 
Of the horrors we endured there I will say nothing . 
However , you have probably read much . 
In the country near which we were quartered there were many mines , some of salt and some of sulphur . 
Oh , the horrors of those mines ! Many a poor exile has been lost in the windings of a salt mine , there to die miserably . 
And in the sulphur mines many die also , not from being lost so much as being overcome by stifling gases . 
It is terrible ! And sometimes they are purposely abandoned by their guides , for the government wants to get rid of certain exiles . 
But you are interested in platinum . 
One day my brother and I who had been sent to work in the salt mines , mistook a turning and wandered on and on for several miles , finally losing our way . 
We came out in the midst of a terrible snowstorm , and wandered about almost frozen . 
At last we were found by a serf who , in his sled , took us to his poor cottage . 
There we were warmed and fed back to life . 
We knew we would be searched for , as naturally , our absence would lead to the suspicion that we had tried to escape . 
So as soon as we were able , we started back to the town where we were quartered . 
The serf wanted to take us in his sled , but we knew he might be suspected of having tried to aid us to get away , and he might be arrested . 
As might have been expected , we became lost again , and wandered about for several days . 
But we had enough food to keep us alive . 
And it was during this wandering that I came upon the platinum mine . 
It was down in a valley , in the midst of a country densely wooded and very desolate . 
There was an outcropping of the ore , and rather idly I put some of it in my pockets . 
Then we wandered on , and finally after awful suffering in terrific storms , were found by a searching party and brought back to the barracks . 
Did they think you had escaped ? asked Tom . 
They did , replied the Russian , and they punished us severely for it , in spite of our denials . 
In time I managed secretly to smelt the platinum ore , and I found I had some of the purest metal I had ever seen . 
I was wishing I could find the mine , or tell some of my friends about it , when one of the officers discovered the metal in my bed . 
He demanded to know where I had gotten it , and knowing that refusal would only make it the worse for me I told him . 
There was considerable excitement , for the value of the discovery was recognized , and a search was at once made for the mine . 
But , even with the aid we were able to give , it could not be located . 
Many expeditions went out to hunt for it but came back baffled . 
They could not penetrate that wild country . 
They should have used an aeroplane , suggested Tom . 
They did , replied the Russian quickly , but it was of no use . 
Why not ? the young inventor wanted to know . 
Because of the terrific winds that almost continually sweep over that part of Siberia . 
They never seem to cease , and there are treacherous air currents and 'pockets' that engulfed more than one luckless aviator . 
Then , perhaps thinking that my brother and I were concealing something , they separated us . 
Where they sent him I do not know , but I was doomed to the sulphur mines . 
I was heartbroken , and I scarcely cared whether I lived or died . 
But an opportunity of escape came , and I took it . 
I went to England , taking some of my precious platinum with me , and stayed there for two years . 
I learned your language , but my efforts to organize an expedition to search for the lost mine , and for my brother , failed . 
Then I came here , and well , I am still trying . 
My ! That is certainly interesting ! exclaimed Ned , who had been all attention during the telling of the story . 
And you certainly had a hard time , declared Tom . 
I am much obliged for this platinum . 
Have you set a price on it ? It is worth much more than the ordinary kind . 
The price is nothing to you , replied the Russian , with a smile . 
I am only too glad to help you fix your aeroplane . 
Will it take long ? I should like to watch you . 
Come along , invited Tom . 
I can soon have it going again , and I'll give you a ride , if you like . 
No , thank you , I'm hardly up to that yet , though I may be some day . 
The machine I made never flew well and I had several bad falls . 
Tom and Ned worked rapidly on the magneto , and soon had replaced the defective bits of platinum . 
If the Russians had such a machine as this maybe they could have gotten to that mine , suggested Ned , who was very proud of Tom's craft . 
It would be useless in the terrific winds , I fear , answered Ivan Petrofsky . 
But now I care little for the mine . 
It is my brother whom I want to save . 
He must be in some of the Siberian mines , and if I had such a craft as this I might be able to rescue him . 
Tom Swift dropped the file he was using . 
A bright light sparkled in his eyes . 
Mr. Petrofsky ! he cried , would you let me have a try at finding your brother , and would you come with me ? Would I ? asked the Russian eagerly . 
I would be your debtor for life , and I would always pray for you , if you could help me to save my brother Peter . 
Then we'll have a try at it ! cried Tom . 
I've got a different airship than this one in which I can travel three thousand miles without coming down . 
I haven't had any excitement since I got back from the city of gold . 
You never can get to the platinum mine , said Ned . 
The winds will tear your airship to pieces . 
Not the kind I'm going to make , declared Tom . 
It's going to be an air glider , that will fairly live on high winds . 
Ho ! for Siberia and the platinum mines . 
CHAPTER III THE HAND OF THE CZAR Then you won't take a ride with me to day . 
asked the young inventor , of the Russian , as he completed the repairs to the magneto . 
I'd like to have you meet my father , and a friend of his , Mr. Damon . 
Most likely he'll go to Siberia with us , if his wife will let him . 
I'd like to talk some plans over with you . 
Well , perhaps it is a little easier on an amateur , admitted Tom . 
If you'll come over to our house at any time I'll take you out in it , or I'll call for you . 
I'll come over in a few days , answered the escaped exile . 
Then I'll tell you all I know of the locality where the platinum mine is located , and we can make our plans . 
In the meanwhile don't say anything about what I have told you . 
Why ? asked Ned quickly . 
Mr. Petrofsky approached closer to the lads , and in a low voice said I am not sure about it , but of late I think I have been shadowed . 
I have seen strange men in the village near here and they have eyed me rather suspiciously . 
Then , too , I have surprised several men around my house . 
I live here all alone , you know , and do most of my own work , a woman coming in occasionally to clean . 
But I don't like these suspicious characters hanging about . 
Not so loud , cautioned Mr. Petrofsky . 
They may even now be in hiding , especially since your aeroplane landed so near my house . 
They may see something suspicious even in that . 
But why should the Russian government set spies on you ? asked Tom in a low voice . 
I am an escaped exile , and I am not a citizen of the United States . 
Therefore I may be sent back to the sulphur mines . 
And another reason is that they may think I know the secret of the platinum treasure the lost mine . 
Say this is getting interesting ! exclaimed Tom . 
If we are going to have a brush with some of the spies of the Russian government so much the better . 
I'm ready for 'em ! So am I ! added Ned . 
You don't know them , said Mr. Petrofsky , and he could not repress a shudder . 
I'd give my life to save my brother from the awful , living death to which he is consigned ! And we're with you ! cried Tom , offering the Russian his hand . 
We'll turn the trick yet . 
Now don't forget to come and see us . 
If I'm going to build an air glider I've got to get busy . 
And waving farewells to their new friend , the lads took their places in the aeroplane and were soon on their way to Shopton . 
I think we're in for a good time . 
an exciting one , anyhow , if what he says is true . 
But what in the world is an air glider , Tom ? It's the last word in aeroplanes . 
You don't need a motor to make it go . 
Don't need a motor ? No , the wind does it all . 
It's a sort of aeroplane , but the motion comes from the wind , acting on different planes , and this is accomplished by shifting weights . 
In it you can stand still in a fierce gale , if you like . 
How , by tying her fast on the ground ? No , hovering in the air . 
It's all done by getting the proper balance . 
The harder the wind blows the better the air glider works , and that's why I think it will be just the thing for Siberia . 
I'm going to get right at work on it , and you'll help me won't you ? I sure will . 
Russia has several mines , and the metal is of good quality . 
I've used some Russian platinum , but the kind Mr. Petrofsky gave me to day was better than the best I ever had . 
If we can only find that lost mine we'll be millionaires all right . 
That's what we thought when we found the city of gold , but the gold wasn't of as fine a grade as we hoped . 
Well , nothing like that can happen in this platinum deal . 
It sure is rich ore that Mr. Petrofsky and his brother found . 
Poor fellow ! To think of being an exile in that awful country , not knowing where you may be sent next . 
No wonder Mr. Petrofsky wants to rescue him . 
Well , here we are . 
I wonder what your father will say when he hears you're thinking of another expedition , Tom ? Oh , he'll want me to go when he hears about the exile . 
And I'm sure my folks will let me go . 
How about Mr. Damon ? I don't believe we can hold him back . 
It will make a nice party , just you and I , and Mr. Damon and Mr. Petrofsky . 
That will leave room for the other Russian if we can rescue him , and with that Tom shut off the engine and glided to earth . 
Only you must be careful , he said . 
Those Russian officers are ugly when it comes to trying to take away any of their prisoners . 
And this air glider I don't exactly know about that . 
It's a new machine , and you want to be sure it works before you trust yourself to it . 
I will , promised Tom . 
Say , I've got plenty of work ahead of me , to get my big airship in shape , and build the glider . 
You'll have to help me , dad . 
Now tell me more about this Mr. Petrofsky . 
The days that followed were indeed busy ones for Tom . 
Meanwhile Mr. Damon had been told of the prospective trip . 
Bless my bank book ! Of course I'll go , he said . 
But don't say anything about it to my wife that is , just yet . 
I'll bring her around to it gradually . 
She has always wanted a diamond ring set in platinum , and now I can get it for her . 
I know she'll let me go if I break it to her gently . 
It may be mentioned here that many valuable diamonds are now set in platinum instead of gold . 
I want to keep busy , said Mr. Damon , so Tom set him , Ned and Eradicate at the task of getting the big airship in shape for the trip . 
Those who care to may refer to the book telling of Tom's trip to the caves of ice for a detailed account of the craft . 
Sufficient to say that this latest airship , named the Falcon , was the largest Tom had ever built . 
It contained much room , many comforts , and could sail for several thousand miles without descending , except in case of accident . 
It was a combined dirigible balloon and aeroplane , and could be used as either , the necessary gas being made on board . 
It was large enough to enable the air glider to be taken on it in sections . 
It was about a week after their first meeting with him , that Ivan Petrofsky paid a visit to the Swift home . 
I don't believe we can start for several weeks yet , said Tom , after some discussion . 
It will take me that long to make the glider . 
And I , too , need a little time , said the Russian . 
I will write to some friends in St . 
Petersburg and perhaps they can get some information for us , as to where my brother is . 
That will be good , declared Mr. Damon . 
It was a week after this , during which Tom , Ned and the others had been very busy , that Tom decided to take a trip to see their Russian friend . 
They had not heard from him since his visit , and Tom wanted to learn something about the strength of the Siberian winds . 
He and Ned went in one of the small airships and soon they were hovering over the grounds surrounding the lonely house where Ivan Petrofsky lived . 
He doesn't seem to be at home , remarked Ned , as they descended and approached the dwelling . 
No , and it looks quite deserted , agreed the young inventor . 
Say , all the doors are open , too ! He shouldn't go away and leave his house open like that with the valuable platinum there . 
Maybe he's asleep , suggested Ned . 
They knocked on the opened door , but there was no answer . 
To their surprise the house was in confusion . 
Furniture was overturned , tables and chairs were broken , and papers were scattered about the room . 
There's been a fight here ! cried Tom . 
That's right , agreed Ned . 
Maybe he's been hurt maybe burglars came for the platinum ! Come on ! cried Tom , making a dash for the stairs . 
We'll see if he's here . 
The house was small , and it took but a moment to show that Mr. Petrofsky was not there . 
Upstairs , as below , was the same confusion the overturned furniture and the papers scattered about . 
Tom stooped and picked up a scrap that looked like a piece torn from a letter . 
On top was a seal the black seal of Russia the imperial arms of the Czar ! Look ! cried Tom , holding out the paper . 
The hand of the Czar ! answered his chum . 
It has reached out from Russia , and taken Mr. Petrofsky away ! CHAPTER IV THE SEARCH For a moment Ned could scarcely understand what Tom meant . 
It scarcely seemed possible that such a thing could happen . 
It isn't possible ! declared Ned breathlessly . 
What difference does that make ? asked Tom . 
The thing has happened , and you can't get out of it . 
Look at all the evidence there's been a fight , that's sure , and Mr. Petrofsky is gone . 
But maybe he went away of his own accord , insisted Ned , who was sometimes hard to convince . 
Well , maybe you're right . 
But think of it ! This isn't Russia ! No , but he's a Russian subject , and , by his own confession an escaped exile . 
If he was arrested in the usual way he could be taken back , and our government couldn't interfere . 
He's been taken back all right . 
That's all Mr. Petrofsky was guilty of politics , trying to help the poor in his own country . 
It's a shame if our government stands for anything like that ! That's just the point ! exclaimed Tom . 
Probably the spies , secret police , or whoever the Russian agents were , didn't ask any help from our government . 
If they did there might be a chance for him . 
But likely they worked in secret . 
They came here , sneaked in on him , and took him away before he could get help . 
Jove ! If he could only have gotten word to me I'd have come in the airship , and then there'd be a different ending to this . 
I guess you're right , Tom . 
Well , that ends it I suppose . 
Ends what ? Our trip to the platinum mine . 
Not a bit of it . 
I'm going to have a hunt for it . 
But how can you when Mr. Petrofsky can't go along to show us the way ? Besides , we wanted to help rescue his brother , and now we can't . 
Well , I'm going to make a big try , declared the young inventor firmly . 
And the first thing I'm going to do is to get our friend out of the clutches of the Russian police . 
You are ? How ? I'm going to make a search for him . 
Look here , Ned , he must have been taken away some time to day perhaps only a few hours ago and they can't have gone far with him . 
How do you make that out ? Ned wanted to know . 
Well , I guess I'm detective enough for that , and Tom smiled . 
Look here , the doors and windows are open . 
Now it rained last night , and there was quite a wind . 
If the windows had been open in the storm there'd be some traces of moisture in the rooms . 
But there isn't a drop . 
Consequently the windows have been opened since last night . 
Say , that's so ! cried Ned admiringly . 
But that's not all , went on Tom . 
Here's a bottle of milk on the table , and it's fresh , which he proved by tasting it . 
Now that was left by the milkman either late last night or early this morning . 
I don't believe it's over twelve hours old . 
Well , what does this mean ? asked Ned , who couldn't quite follow Tom's line of reasoning . 
To my mind it means that the spies were here no later than this morning . 
Look at the table upset , the dishes on the floor . 
Here's one with oatmeal in it , and you know how hard and firm cooked oatmeal gets after it stands a bit . 
They had hard work overpowering him , I'll wager , for he could put up a pretty good fight . 
And the broken furniture is evidence of that . 
Then the spies , after tying him up , or putting him in a carriage , searched the house for incriminating papers . 
That's as plain as the nose on your face . 
Then the police agents , or whoever they were , skipped out in a hurry , not taking the trouble to close the windows and doors . 
I believe it did happen that way , agreed Ned , who clearly saw what Tom meant . 
But what can we do ? How can we find him ? By getting on the trail , answered his chum quickly . 
There may be more clews in the house , and I'm sure there'll be some out of doors , for they must have left footprints or the marks of carriage wheels . 
We'll take a look , and then we'll get right on the search . 
I'm not going to let them take Mr. Petrofsky to Russia if I can help it . 
I want to get after that platinum , and he's the only one who can pilot us anywhere near the place and besides , there's his brother we've got to rescue . 
We'll make a search for the exile . 
I'm with you ! cried Ned . 
Jove ! Wouldn't it be great if we could rescue him ? They can't have gotten very far with him . 
I'm afraid they have quite a start on us admitted Tom with a dubious shake of his head , but as long as they're in the United States we have a chance . 
If ever they get him on Russian soil it's all up with him . 
Come on then ! cried Ned . 
What's the first thing to do ? Look for clews , replied Tom . 
We'll begin at the top of the house and work down . 
It's lucky we came when we did , for every minute counts . 
Then the two plucky lads began their search for the kidnapped Russian exile . 
CHAPTER V A CLEW FROM RUSSIA Nothing much up here , remarked Tom , when he and Ned had gone all over the second floor twice . 
That scrap of paper , which put me on to the fact that some one from the Russian government had been here , is about all . 
They must have taken all the documents Mr. Petrofsky had . 
Maybe he didn't have any , suggested Ned . 
If he was wise he'd get rid of them when he knew he was being shadowed , as he told us . 
Perhaps that was why they broke up the furniture , searching for hidden papers , or they may have done it out of spite because they didn't find anything . 
But we might as well go downstairs and look there . 
Now for outside ! cried the young inventor . 
We'll see if we can figure out how they got him away . 
There were plenty of marks in the soft ground and turf , which was still damp from the night's rain , though it was now afternoon . 
But for all that , they saw enough to convince them that several men had been at the lonely house , for there were many marks of shoes . 
It was out of the question , however , to tell which were those of Mr. Petrofsky and which those of his captors . 
They might have carried him out to a carriage they had in waiting , suggested Ned . 
Let's go out to the front gate and look in the road . 
They hardly would bring the carriage up to the door . 
Good idea , commented Tom , and they hurried to the main thoroughfare that passed the Russian's house . 
Here they are ! cried Ned , Who was in the lead . 
There's been a carriage here as sure as you're a foot high . 
and it's a rubber tired one too . 
GOOD ! cried Tom admiringly . 
You're coming right along in your detective training . 
How do you make that out ? See here , where a piece of rubber has been broken or cut out of the tire . 
It makes a peculiar mark in the dirt every time the wheel goes around . 
That's right , and it will be a good thing to trace the carriage by . 
Come on , we'll keep right after it . 
Hold on a bit , suggested Ned , who , though not so quick as Tom Swift , frequently produced good results by his very slowness . 
I'll disconnect it so they can't start it , though if Andy Foger happens to come along he might slash the planes just out of spite . 
But I guess he won't show up . 
Hurry ! urged Tom , as he started off in the direction of the village of Hurdtown , near where the cottage stood . 
We will ask people living along the highway if they've seen a carriage pass . 
But what makes you think they went off that way ? asked Ned . 
I should think they'd head away from the village , so as not to be seen . 
No , I don't agree with you . 
But wait , we'll look at the marks . 
Maybe that will help us . 
Peering carefully at the marks of horses' hoofs and the wheel impressions , Tom uttered a cry of discovery . 
I have it ! he declared . 
The carriage came from the village , and kept right on the other way . 
They didn't go back to town . 
Are you sure ? Of course . 
As it is there is only a single set just as if the carriage drove up here , took on its load , and continued on . 
They hurried down the road , and soon came to a cluster of farm houses . 
Well , I guess it isn't of much use to go on any farther , spoke Ned , when they had traveled several miles and had learned nothing . 
We'll try one more house , and then go back , agreed Tom . 
We'll tell dad about what's happened , and see what he says . 
Carriage ? repeated an old farmer to whom they next put the question . 
Wa'al , now , come t' think of it , I did see one drivin' along here early this morning . 
It had rubber tires on too , for I recollect remarkin' t' myself that it didn't make much noise . 
Had t' talk t' myself , he added in explanation , 'cause nobody else in the family was up , 'ceptin' th' dog . 
Did the carriage have some Russians in it ? asked Tom eagerly , and was one a big bearded man ? Wa'al , now you've got me , admitted the farmer frankly . 
It was quite early you see , and I didn't take no particular notice . 
I got up early t' do my milkin' 'cause I have t' take it t' th' cheese factory . 
That's th' reason nobody was up but me . 
But I see this carriage comin' down th' road , and thinks I t' myself it was pretty middlin' early fer anybody t' be takin' a pleasure ride . 
Then you can't tell us anything more except that it passed ? asked Ned . 
No , I couldn't see inside , 'cause it was rather dark at that hour , and then , too , I noticed that they had th' window shades down . 
That's suspicious ! exclaimed Tom . 
Could you tell where they were going ? asked Tom , scarcely hoping to get an affirmative answer . 
Why didn't you say so at first ? asked Tom quickly . 
Why didn't you tell us they were heading for the railroad ? You didn't ask me , replied the farmer . 
What difference does it make . 
Every minute counts ! exclaimed the young inventor . 
We want to keep right after those fellows . 
Maybe the agent can tell us where they bought tickets to , and we can trace them that way . 
Shouldn't wonder , commented the farmer . 
There ain't many trains out from Waterville at that time of day , an' mighty few passengers . 
Shouldn't wonder but Jake Applesaner could put ye on th' trail . 
Much obliged , called Tom . 
Come on , Ned , and he started back in the direction of the house where the kidnapping had taken place . 
That ain't th' way t' 'vaterville ! the farmer shouted after them . 
I know it , we're going to get our airship , answered Tom , and then he heard the farmer mutter . 
Plumb crazy ! That's what they be ! Plumb crazy ! Going after their airship ! Shouldn't wonder but they was escaped lunatics , and the other fellers was keepers after 'em . 
Hu ! Wa'al , I've got my work to do . 
'Tain't none of my affair . 
Let him think what he likes , commented Ned as he and his chum hurried on . 
We're on the trail all right . 
Jake prided himself on not being surprised at anything , except once when he took a counterfeit dollar in return for a ticket , and had to make it good to the company . 
But , to the despair of Tom and Ned , he could not help them much . 
He had seen the party , of course . 
That was Mr. Petrofsky all right , declared Ned . 
They must have hurt and drugged him . 
But you can't tell us for what station they bought tickets , Mr. Applesauer ? No , for they didn't buy any . 
They must have had 'em , or else they paid on the train . 
One man drove off in the coach , and that's all I know . 
As Tom and Ned started back to Shopton in the aeroplane they discussed what could be done next . 
A hard task lay before them , and they realized that . 
They could have gotten off at any station between here and New York , or even changed to another railroad at the junction , spoke Tom . 
It's going to be a hard job . 
Guess we'll have to get some regular detectives on it , suggested Ned . 
And that's what I'll do , declared the young inventor . 
They may be able to locate Mr. Petrofsky before those spies take him out of this country . 
If they don't it will be too late . 
I'm going to talk to dad about it , and if he agrees I'll hire the best private detectives . 
The early reports from the detective were quite reassuring . 
He got on the trail of the men who had taken Mr. Petrofsky away , and confirmed the suspicion that they were agents of the Russian police . 
He trailed them as far as New York , and there the clews came to an end . 
And then , most unexpectedly a clew came a clew from far off Russia . 
Tom got a letter one day a letter in a strange hand , the stamp and postmark showing that it had come from the land of the Czar . 
What do you suppose it contains ? asked Ned , who was with his chum when the communication was received . 
Haven't the least idea but I'll soon find out . 
Maybe it's from the Russian police , telling you to keep away from Siberia . 
Maybe , answered Tom absently , for he was reading the missive . 
I say ! he suddenly cried . 
This is great ! A clew at last , and from St . 
Petersburg ! Listen to this , Ned ! This letter is from the head of one of the secret societies over there , a society that works against the government . 
How in the world could anybody in Russia know that . 
It tells here , said Tom . 
As soon as the secret police got Mr. Petrofsky they communicated with the head officials in St . 
What are they holding him for ? asked Ned . 
It seems they can't legally take him back until certain papers are received from his former prison in Siberia , and those are now on the way . 
His friends write to me to hasten and rescue him . 
But how did they ever get your address ? That's easy , though you wouldn't think so . 
It seems , so the letter explains , that as soon as Mr. Petrofsky got acquainted with us he wrote to friends in St . 
Petersburg , giving my address , and telling them , in case anything ever happened to him , to notify us . 
You see he suspected that something might , after he found he was being shadowed that way . 
And it all worked out . 
As soon as his friends heard that he was caught , and learned where he was being held , they wrote to me . 
That's the stuff ! I'm with you ! Bless my suspender buttons ! So am I , whatever it is ! cried Mr. Damon , entering the room at that moment . 
PETROFSKY We ought to be somewhere near the place now , Tom . 
I think we are , Ned . 
But you know I'm not going too close in this airship . 
Bless my silk hat ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
I hope we don't have to walk very far in such a deserted country as this , Tom Swift . 
We'll have to walk a little way , Mr. Damon , replied the young inventor . 
It was only a few hours after Tom had received the letter from Russia informing him of the whereabouts of the kidnapped Russian , and he had acted at once . 
His father sanctioned the plan of going to the rescue in one of Tom's several airships and , Mr. Damon , having been on hand , at once agreed to go . 
Of course Ned went along , and they had picked up the private detective in New York , where he was vainly seeking a clew to the whereabouts of Mr. Petrofsky . 
Now the young inventor and his friends were hovering over the sandy stretch of coast that extends from Sandy Hook down the Atlantic seaboard . 
They were looking for a small fishing hamlet on the outskirts of which , so the Russian letter stated , was situated the lonely hut in which Mr. Petrofsky was held a prisoner . 
Do you think you can pick it out from a distance , Tom ? asked Mr. Damon , as the airship floated slowly along . 
I think so , answered the young inventor . 
In the letter from Russia a comparatively accurate description of the prisoner's hut had been given , and also some details about his guards . 
There is the big fish house , spoken of in the letter , he went on , and the Russians know a lot about fish . 
That house makes a good landmark . 
We'll go down now , before they have a chance to see us . 
Now , said Tom , we've got to decide on a plan of Campaign . 
It won't do for all of us to go to the hut and make the rescue . 
Some one has got to stay with the airship , to be ready to start it off as soon as we come back with Mr. Petrofsky if we do come . 
Then there's no use in me staying here , spoke Detective Trivett . 
I don't know enough even to turn on the gasolene . 
No , it's got to be Ned or me , said the young inventor . 
Accordingly , after looking to everything to see that it was in working order , Tom led the advance . 
It was just getting dusk , and they figured on getting to the hut after dark . 
Have everything ready for a quick start , Tom said to Ned , for we may come back running . 
I will , was the prompt answer , and then , getting their bearings , the little party set off . 
They had to travel over a stretch of sandy waste that ran along the beach . 
Back in shore were a few scattered cottages , and not yet opened for the summer , and on the ocean side was the pounding surf . 
It was not near any other building . 
Slowly , and avoiding going any nearer the other houses than they could help , the little party made its way . 
They had to depend on their own judgement now , for the minor details of the location of the hut could not be given in the letter from Russia . 
In fact the spies themselves , in writing to their head officers about the matter , had not described the location in detail . 
Cautiously they approached and , as they drew nearer , they saw that the light came through the window of a small hut . 
Looks like the place , commented the detective . 
We'll have a look , remarked Tom . 
He crept up so he could glance in the window , and no sooner had he peered in , than he motioned for the others to approach . 
Looking under a partly drawn curtain , Mr. Damon and Mr. Trivett saw the Russian whom they sought . 
He was seated at a table , his head bowed on his hands , and in the room were three men . 
A rifle stood in one corner , near one of the guards . 
They're taking no chances , whispered Mr. Damon . 
What shall we do , Tom ? It's three to three , replied the young inventor . 
But if we can get him away without a fight , so much the better . 
I think I have it . 
I'll go up to the door , knock and make quite a racket , and demand admittance in the name of the Czar . 
That will startle them , and they may all three rush to answer . 
Mr. Damon , you and the detective will stay by the window . 
As soon as you see the men rush for the door , smash in the window with a piece of driftwood and call to Mr. Petrofsky to jump out that way . 
Then you can run with him toward the airship , and I'll follow . 
I don't see why it wouldn't , declared the detective . 
Looking in once more , to make sure that the guards were not aware of the presence of the rescuing party , Tom went to the front door of the hut . 
It was a small building , evidently one used by fishermen . 
One remained near Mr. Petrofsky , who also leaped up . 
Now ! called the detective to his companion . 
Smash the window ! The next instant a big piece of driftwood crashed through the casement , just as the two men were hurrying to the front door to answer Tom's summons . 
Mr. Petrofsky ! This way ! yelled Mr. Damon , sticking his head in through the broken sash . 
There were splinters of the frame and jagged pieces of glass sticking out , making it dangerous for the exile to slip through . 
Come on ! Come on ! the eccentric man continued to call . 
Bless my safety valve ! We'll save you ! Come on ! Mr. Petrofsky was leaping across the room , just ahead of the one guard . 
The other two were at the open door now , through which Tom could be seen . 
Then the spies , realizing in an instant that they had been deceived , made a dash after their comrade , who had his hand on the tails of the exile's coat . 
Break away ! Break loose ! cried Mr. Damon , who , by this time had cleared the window so a person could get through . 
Don't let them hold you ! I don't intend to ! retorted Mr. Petrofsky , and he swerved suddenly , tearing his coat , from the grasp of the guard . 
Pull away ! Pull away ! cried Mr. Damon . 
We'll help you ! shouted Tom , who , now that his trick had worked , had sped around to the other side of the hut . 
Don't be afraid , we're with you ! exclaimed the detective , who was with the young inventor . 
Grab him ! Keep him ! Hold him ! fairly screamed the rearmost of the three guards . 
It is a plot of the Nihilists to rescue him . 
A bomb ! A bomb ! , yelled the guards in terror . 
Not yet , but there may be ! murmured Tom . 
He scrambled through , with the aid of Mr. Damon , and before the guards could again spring at him , which they did when the echoes of the shot had died away . 
They had realized , too late , that it was not a bomb , and that there was no immediate danger for them . 
Come on ! cried Tom . 
Make for the airship ! We've got to get the start of them ! Leading the way , he sprinted toward the road that led to the place where the airship awaited them . 
He was followed by Mr. Damon and the detective , who had Mr. Petrofsky between them . 
Are you all right ? Tom called back to the exile . 
Are you hurt ? Can you run ? I'm all right , was the reassuring answer . 
Go ahead But they'll be right after us . 
Maybe they'll stop when they see this , remarked the detective significantly , and he held his revolver so that the rays of the newly risen moon glinted on it . 
Here they come ! cried Tom a moment later , as three figures , one after the other , came around the corner of the house . 
They had not taken the shorter route through the window , as had Mr. Petrofsky , and this gained a little time for our friends . 
Stop ! Hold on ! cried one of the guards in fairly good English . 
Not any more ! the young inventor yelled back . 
Look out ! They're going to shoot ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Guess I'll fire in the air again . 
He did , and the guards halted . 
They seemed to be holding a consultation , as Tom learned by glancing hastily back , and he caught the glisten of some weapon . 
But if the three men had any notion of firing they gave it up , and once more came on running . 
Doubtless they had orders to get their prisoner back to Russia alive , and did not want to take any chances of hitting him . 
Leg it ! cried Tom . 
I wonder if we can make it , mused Tom , as he realized that the airship was a good distance off yet . 
the guards , though quite a way in the rear now were coming on fast . 
It's going to be a close race , thought the young inventor . 
I wish we'd brought the airship a little nearer . 
We've got to go faster ! cried Tom . 
Bless my shoe leather ! yelled Mr. Damon . 
I can't go any faster . 
Still he did make the attempt , and so did the exile and the detective . 
Little was said now , for each of the parties was running a dogged race , and in silence . 
Bless my gasolene ! What's that ? cried Mr. Damon . 
The airship ! It's the airship ! yelled Tom , as he saw a great dark shape slowly approaching . 
Ned is bringing her to met us . 
Good ! cried the detective . 
Ned could now see the refugees , and in a moment he sent the graceful craft down , bringing it to a halt on the ground near Tom . 
In with you ! cried the lad . 
She's all ready to start up again ! Come on ! yelled Tom to the others . 
We're all right now , if you hustle ! Bless my pin cushion ! gasped Mr. Damon , making a final spurt . 
They made a rush , however , but it was too late . 
Over the side of the craft scrambled Tom , Mr. Damon , the detective and Ivan Petrofsky , and an instant later Ned had sent it aloft . 
The race was over , and the young inventor and his friends had won . 
You're the stuff ! cried Tom to Ned , as he went with his chum to the pilot house to direct the progress of the airship . 
It's lucky you came for us . 
We never could have made the distance . 
We left the ship too far off . 
That's what I thought after you'd gone , replied his chum . 
So I decided to come and meet you . 
I had to go slowly so as not to pass you in the darkness . 
You're having your first ride in an airship , Mr. Petrofsky , remarked Tom , when they had gone on for some little distance . 
How do you like it ? I'm so excited I hardly know , but it's quite a sensation . 
But how in the world did you ever find me to rescue me ? Then they told the story of their search , and the unexpected clew from Russia . 
He had been kept a close prisoner in the lonely hut , and each day he had expected to be taken back to serve out his sentence in Siberia . 
Well I'm glad we got you , said Tom heartily . 
We will soon be ready to start for Siberia . 
In this kind of a craft ? Yes , only much larger . 
I only hope my air glider works . 
By putting on speed , Tom was able to reach Shopton before midnight , and there was quite an informal celebration in the Swift homestead over the rescue of the exile . 
The detective , for whom there was no further need , was paid off , and Mr. Petrofsky was made a member of the household . 
You'd better stay here until we are ready to start , Tom said , and then we can keep an eye on you . 
We need you to show us as nearly as possible where the platinum field is . 
All right , agreed the Russian with a laugh . 
I'm sure I'll do all I can for you , and you are certainly treating me very nicely after what I suffered from my captors . 
Tom resumed work on his air glider the next day , and he had an additional helper , for Mr. Petrofsky proved to be a good mechanic . 
In brief , the air glider was like an aeroplane save that it had no motor . 
While it could not exactly move directly against the wind it could progress in a direction contrary to which the gale was blowing , somewhat as a sailing ship tacks . 
And , as has been explained , the harder the wind blew the better the air glider worked . 
In fact unless there was a strong gale it would not go up . 
But it will be just what is needed out there in that part of Siberia , declared the exile , for there the wind is never quiet . 
Often it blows a regular hurricane . 
That's what we want ! cried Tom . 
He had made several models of the air glider , changing them as he found out his errors , and at last he had hit on the right shape and size . 
Midway of the big glider , on which work was now well started , there was to be an enclosed car for the carrying of passengers , their food and supplies . 
Tom figured on carrying five or six . 
For several weeks the work on the air glider progressed rapidly , and it was nearing completion . 
Meanwhile nothing more had been heard or seen of the Russian spies . 
Well , announced Tom one night , after a day's hard work , we'll be ready for a trial now , just as soon as there comes a good wind . 
Is it all finished ? asked Ned . 
No , but enough for a trial spin . 
What I want is a big wind now . 
CHAPTER VIII IN A GREAT GALE There was a humming in the air . 
The telegraph wires that ran along on high poles past the house of Tom Swift sung a song like that of an Aeolian harp . 
The very house seemed to tremble . 
Jove ! This is a wind ! cried Tom as he awakened on a morning a few days after his air glider was nearly completed . 
I never saw it so strong . 
This ought to be just what I want I must telephone to Mr. Damon and to Ned . 
He hustled into his clothes , pausing now and then to look out of his window and note the effects of the gale . 
It was a tremendous wind , as was evidenced by the limbs of several trees being broken off , while in some cases frail trees themselves had been snapped in twain . 
Coffee ready , Mrs. Baggert ? asked our hero as he went downstairs . 
I haven't got time to eat much though . 
He was a little worried lest the wind die out , but when he got outside he noted with satisfaction that the gale was stronger than at first . 
In fact it did considerable damage in Shopton , as Tom learned later . 
It certainly was a strong wind . 
An ordinary aeroplane never could have sailed in it , and Tom was doubtful of the ability of even his big airship to navigate in it . 
But he was not going to try that . 
And maybe my air glider won't work , he remarked to himself as he was on his way to the shed where it had been constructed . 
The models went up all right , but maybe the big one isn't proportioned right . 
However , I'll soon see . 
He was busy adjusting the balancing weights when Ned Newton came in . 
Well , I'd think twice about it myself . 
Why , I counted on you going up with me . 
Burr r r r ! and Ned pretended to shiver . 
I haven't an accident insurance policy you know . 
You won't need it , Ned . 
If we get up at all we'll be all right . 
Catch hold there , and shift that rear weight a little forward on the rod . 
I expect Mr. Damon soon . 
The eccentric man came in a little later , just as Tom and Ned had finished adjusting the mechanism . 
Bless my socks ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Do you really mean to go up to day , Tom ? I sure do ! Why , aren't you going with me ? and Tom winked at Ned . 
Now , Ned , how about you ? asked the young inventor . 
Well , I guess it's up to me to come along . 
but I sure do wish it was over with , and Ned glanced out of the window to see if the gale was dying out . 
But the wind was as high as ever . 
The wind , however , he hoped , would raise him and the strange craft . 
We'll have to get Eradicate and his mule , I guess , said Tom , after a vain endeavor to make progress against the wind . 
When it's up in the air it will be all right , but until then I'll need help to move it . 
Ned , call Rad , will you ? The colored man , with Boomerang , his faithful mule , was soon on hand . 
The animal was hitched to the glider , and pulled it toward the hill . 
Tom gave a last careful look to the weights , planes and rudders . 
He glanced at a small anemometer or wind gage , on the craft , and noted that it registered sixty miles an hour . 
That ought to do , he remarked . 
Now who's going up with me ? Will you take a chance , Mr. Petrofsky ? I'd rather not at first . 
Come on then , Ned and Mr. Damon . 
Mr. Petrofsky and Rad can cast off the ropes . 
The wind , if anything , was stronger than ever . 
It was a terrific gale , and just what was needed . 
But how would the air glider act ? That was what Tom wanted very much to know . 
Cast off ! he cried to the Russian and Eradicate , and they slipped the ropes . 
The next moment , with a rush and whizzing roar , the air glider shot aloft on the wings of the wind . 
CHAPTER IX THE SPIES We're certainly going up ! yelled Ned , as he sat beside Tom in the cabin of the air glider . 
That's right ! agreed the young inventor rather proudly , as he grasped two levers , one of which steered the craft , the other being used to shift the weights . 
I was pretty sure of that . 
The next thing is to see if it will remain stationary in the air , and answer the rudder . 
Bless my top knot ! cried Mr. Damon . 
You don't mean to tell me you can stand still in a gale of wind , Tom Swift . 
That's exactly what I do mean . 
You can't do it in an aeroplane , for that depends on motion to keep itself up in the air . 
But the glider is different . 
That's one of its specialties , remaining still , and that's why it will be valuable if we ever get to Siberia . 
We can hover over a certain spot in a gale of wind , and search about below with telescopes for a sign of the lost platinum mine . 
How high are you going up ? demanded Ned , for the air glider was still mounting upward on a slant . 
It was just this way with the air glider it was mounting upward on a slant . 
I'm going up a couple of hundred feet at least , answered Tom , and higher if the gale strata is there . 
I want to give it a good test while I'm at it . 
Ned looked down through a heavy plate of glass in the floor of the cabin , and could see Mr. Petrofsky and Eradicate looking up at them . 
Bless my handkerchief ! cried Mr. Damon , when his attention had been called to this . 
It's just like an airship . 
Except that we haven't a bit of machinery on board , said Tom . 
These weights do everything , and he shifted them forward on the sliding rods , with the effect that the air glider dipped down with a startling lurch . 
We're falling ! cried Ned . 
Not a bit of it , answered Tom . 
I only showed you how it worked . 
By sliding the weights back we go up . 
He demonstrated this at once , sending his craft sliding up another hill of air , until it reached an elevation of four hundred feet , as evidenced by the barograph . 
I guess this is high enough , remarked Tom after a bit . 
Now to see if she'll stand still . 
Slowly he moved the weights along , by means of the compound levers , until the air glider was on an even keel so to speak . 
It was still moving forward , with the wind now , for Tom had warped his wing tips . 
Only we have no string to hold us from moving . 
We have to depend on the equalization of friction on the surfaces of the wings . 
I wonder if I can do it . 
It was a delicate operation , and Tom had not had much experience in that sort of thing , for his other airships and aeroplanes worked on an entirely different principle . 
And we can go to Siberia ? added Mr. Damon . 
Sure , assented the young inventor . 
And if we have luck we'll rescue Mr. Petrofsky's brother , and get a lot of platinum that will be more valuable than gold . 
It would not be true to say that the air glider was absolutely stationary . 
There was a slight forward motion , due to the fact that it was not yet perfected , and also because Tom was not expert enough in handling it . 
The friction on the plane surfaces was not equalized , and the gale forced the craft along slightly . 
For actually that was what the hurricane was doing . 
This sure is great ! cried Ned . 
Have you got her in control , Tom ? I think so . 
I'll try and see how she works . 
Then he turned it completely about and though he developed no great speed in this test made it progress quarteringly against the wind , It's almost perfect , declared Tom . 
A few touches and she'll be all right . 
Is it all right ? asked Ivan Petrofsky anxiously , as the three left the cabin , and Eradicate hitched his mule to the glider to take it back to the shed . 
I see where it can be improved , he said , as they made ready to descend . 
I'll soon have it in shape . 
Then we can go to Siberia ? In less than a month . 
The big airship needs some repairs , and then we'll be off . 
The Russian said nothing , but he looked his thanks to Tom , and the manner in which he grasped the hand of our hero showed his deep feelings . 
The glider was given several more trials , and each time it worked better . 
So anxious was Tom to get started , that he put in several nights working on the glider . 
Ned occasionally came over to help him , while Mr. Damon was on hand as often as his wife would allow . 
Mr. Petrofsky spent his nights writing to friends in Russia , hoping to get some clew as to the whereabouts of his brother . 
It was on one of these nights , when Tom and Ned were laboring hard , with Eradicate to help them that an incident occurred which worried them all not a little . 
Tom was adjusting some of the new weights on the sliding rods , and called to Ned I say , old man , hand me that big monkey wrench , will you . 
I can't loosen this nut with the small one . 
You'll find it on the bench by that back window . 
As Ned went to get the tool he looked from the casement . 
They had to stand still for a moment to accustom their eyes to the gloom . 
Can you see them ? cried Tom to his chum . 
It was almost a hopeless task to pursue them , but the two lads were not the kind that give up . 
They rushed forward , hoping to be able to grapple with those who had looked in the shop window , but it was not to be . 
The sound of the retreating footsteps became more and more faint , until finally they gave no clew to follow . 
Better stop , advised Tom . 
No telling where we'll end up if we keep on running . 
Besides it might be dangerous . 
Dangerous how ? panted Ned . 
They might dodge around , and wait for us behind some tree or bush . 
An' ef dat Foger feller am around he jest as soon as not fetch one ob us a whack in de head , commented Eradicate grimly . 
Guess you're about right , admitted Ned . 
There isn't much use keeping on . 
What sort of fellows were they ? asked Tom , when , after a little further search , the hunt was given up . 
Could you see them well , Ned ? Not very good . 
Just as I went to get you that wrench I noticed two faces looking in the window . 
I must have taken them by surprise , for they dodged down in an instant . 
Then I yelled , and they ran off . 
Did you see Andy Foger ? No , I didn't notice him . 
Was either of them one of the spies who had Mr. Petrofsky in the hut ? I didn't see those fellows very well , you remember , so I couldn't say . 
That's so , but I'll bet that's who they were . 
What do you think they're after , Tom ? One of two things . 
They either want to get our Russian friend into their clutches again , or they're after me to try to stop me from going to Siberia . 
Do you think they'd go to such length as that ? I'm almost sure they would . 
And once the Russian government sets out to do a thing it generally does it I'll give 'em credit for that . 
But how do you suppose they know you're going to Russia ? Say , those fellows have ways of getting information you and I would never dream of . 
I shouldn't be surprised but what some of the very people whom Mr. Petrofsky thinks are his friends are spies , and they send word to headquarters of every move he makes . 
Why don't you warn him ? He knows it as well as I do . 
The trouble is you can't tell who the spies are until it's too late . 
I'm glad I'm not mixed up in that sort of thing . 
If I can get to Siberia , help Mr. Petrofsky rescue his brother , and get hold of some of that platinum I'll be satisfied . 
Then I won't go back to the land of the Czar , once I get away from there . 
Well , let's go back and work on the glider . 
And we'll have Eradicate patrolling about the shop to make sure we're not spied on again . 
By golly ! Ef I sees any oh 'em , I suah will pinch 'em ! cried the colored man , as he clicked the pliers . 
But there was no further disturbance that night , and , when Tom and Ned ceased work , they had made good progress toward finishing the air glider . 
In the days that followed Tom and his friends worked hard . 
The young inventor had it under nearly as good control as he had his dirigible balloons or aeroplanes . 
Besides there was the long ocean flight to provide for . 
But if worst comes to worst I can burn kerosene in my motor , Tom explained , for he had perfected an attachment to this end . 
You can get kerosene almost anywhere in Russia . 
But it might be a salt mine , just as well , said Mr. Petrofsky , when he told the boys the news . 
Information about the poor exiles is hard to get Well , we'll take a chance ! cried Tom determinedly . 
The preparations went on , and by strict watchfulness none of the spies secured admission to the shop where the air glider was being finished . 
Don't you wish you were going , Rad ? the young inventor asked , for the colored man had decided to stay at home . 
No indeedy , Massa Tom , was the answer . 
Dat's a mighty cold country in Shebeara , an' I laik warm wedder . 
Well , take care of yourself and Boomerang , answered Tom with a laugh . 
Then he pulled the lever that sent a supply of gas into the big bag , and the ship began to rise . 
I guess we've given those spies the slip , remarked Ned , as they rose from the ground calling good byes to the friends they left behind . 
Then , as the airship gathered momentum , it fairly sprang into the air , and a moment later , the big propellers began revolving . 
They were off on their long voyage to find the lost platinum mine , and rescue the exile of Siberia . 
CHAPTER XI A STORM AT SEA Tom had the choice of two routes in making his voyage to far off Siberia . 
He could have crossed the United States , sailed over the Pacific ocean , and approached the land of the Czar from the western coast above Manchuria . 
But he preferred to take the Atlantic route , crossing Europe , and so sailing over Russia proper to get to his destination . 
There were several reasons for this . 
The water voyage was somewhat shorter , and this was an important consideration when there was no telling when he might have an accident that would compel him to descend . 
On the Atlantic he knew there would be more ships to render assistance if it was needed , although he hoped he would not have to ask for it . 
What for ? To renew our supply of gasolene , for one thing , replied the young inventor . 
Not that we will be out when we arrive , but if we take on more there we may not have to get any in Russia . 
Besides , they have a very good quality in France , so all told , I think the route over Europe to be the best . 
Ned agreed with him , and so did Mr. Petrofsky . 
As for Mr. Damon , he was so busy getting his sleeping room in order , and blessing everything he could think of , that he did not have time to talk much . 
For , he said , we have a long trip ahead of us and we need to save all the elevating gas we can save . 
If worst comes to worst , and we can't navigate as an aeroplane any more , we can even drift along as a dirigible . 
But while we have the gasolene we might as well make speed and be an aeroplane . 
The others agreed with him , and so it was arranged . 
And this was not hard to do . 
Naturally , in a craft that had to carry a heavy load , and lift itself into the air , as well as propel itself along , not many things could be taken . 
Still our friends were not without their comforts . 
There was a well stocked kitchen , and Mr. Damon insisted on installing himself as cook . 
This had been Eradicate's work but the eccentric man knew how to do almost everything from making soup to roasting a chicken , and he liked it . 
So he was allowed free run of the galley . 
There were ample sleeping quarters for six persons , a living room and a dining saloon . 
In short the Falcon was much like Tom's Red Cloud , only bigger and better . 
There was even a phonograph on board so that music , songs , and recitations could be enjoyed . 
I don't believe many persons have such opportunities as we have . 
I'm sure they do not , added Mr. Petrofsky . 
I can hardly think it true , that I am on my way back to Siberia to rescue my dear brother . 
And such good weather as we're having , spoke Ned . 
I'm glad we didn't start off in a storm , for I don't exactly like them when we're over the water . 
We may get one yet , said Tom . 
I don't just like the way the barometer is acting . 
Bless my mercury tube ! cried Mr. Damon . 
I hope we have no bad luck on this trip . 
Oh , we can't help a storm or two , answered Tom . 
I guess it won't do any harm to prepare for it . 
So everything was made snug , and movable articles on the small exposed deck of the airship were lashed fast . 
Then , as night settled down , our friends gathered about in the cheerful cabin , in the light of the electric lamps , and talked of what lay before them . 
As Mr. Damon could steer as well as Tom or Ned , he shared in the night watch . 
But Mr. Petrofsky was not expert enough to accept this responsibility . 
It was when Mr. Damon finished his watch at midnight , and called Tom , that he remarked . 
Bless my umbrella , Tom . 
But I don't like the looks of the weather . 
Why , what's it doing ? It isn't doing anything , but it's clouding up and the barometer is going down . 
I was afraid we were in for it , answered the young inventor . 
Well , we'll have to take what comes . 
I don't like it , murmured Tom , I don't like it , and he shook his head dubiously . 
With a suddenness that was almost terrifying , the storm broke over the ocean about three o'clock that morning . 
There was a terrific clap of thunder , a flash of lighting , and a deluge of rain that fairly made the staunch Falcon stagger , high in the air as she was . 
Come on , Ned ! cried Tom , as he pressed the electric alarm bell connected with his chum's berth . 
I need you , and Mr. Damon , too . 
What's the matter ? cried Ned , awakened suddenly from a sound sleep . 
We're in a bad storm , answered Tom , and I'll have to have help . 
We need more gas , to try and rise above it . 
CHAPTER XII AN ACCIDENT For a few moments it seemed as if the Falcon would surely turn turtle and plunge into the seething ocean . 
The storm had burst with such suddenness that Tom , who was piloting his air craft , was taken unawares . 
He had not been using much power or the airship would have been better able to weather the blast that burst with such fury over her . 
But as it was , merely drifting along , she was almost like a great sheet of paper . 
Tom ! he cried in alarm . 
We're sinking ! Bless my bath sponge ! Don't say that ! gasped Mr. Damon . 
That's why I called you , yelled the young inventor . 
We've got to rise above the storm if possible . 
Go to the gas machine , Ned , and turn it on full strength . 
I'll speed up the motor , and we may be able to cut up that way . 
But get the gas on as soon as you can . 
The bag is only about half full . 
All right , Tom , answered the eccentric man , as he fairly jumped to take the place of the young inventor at the helm . 
Can I do anything ? asked the Russian , as Tom raced for the engine room , to speed the motor up to the last notch . 
Everything is covered , unless you want to help Mr. Damon . 
In this blow it will be hard to work the rudder levers . 
All right , replied Ivan Petrofsky , and then there came another sickening roll of the airship , that threatened to turn her completely over . 
Lively ! yelled Tom , clinging to various supports as he made his way to the engine room . 
It was the work of but an instant however , when Tom reached the engine room , to jerk the accelerator lever toward him , and the motor responded at once . 
With a low , humming whine the wheels and gears redoubled their speed , and the great propellers beat the air with fiercer strokes . 
At the same time Tom heard the hiss of the gas as it rushed into the envelope from the generating machine , as Ned opened the release valve . 
For a moment she hung in the balance , neither the increased speed of the propellers , nor the force of the gas having any seeming effect . 
But even this seemed to do no good . 
The power of the gale was such , that , even with the motor and gas machine working to their limit , the Falcon only held her own . 
She swept along , barely missing the crests of the giant waves . 
She's got to go up ! She's got to go up ! cried Tom desperately , as if by very will power he could send her aloft . 
That's it ! cried Tom in relief , as he noted the needle of the barograph swinging over , indicating an ever increasing height . 
They were not quite yet , but at last the power of machinery had prevailed over that of the elements . 
Through the pelting rain , and amid the glare of the lightning , and the thunder of heaven's artillery , the airship forced her way , up and up and up . 
Setting the motor controller to give the maximum power until he released it , Tom hastened to the gas generating apparatus . 
He found Ned attending to it , so that it was now working satisfactorily . 
How about it , Tom ? cried his chum anxiously . 
All right now , Ned , but it was a close shave ! I thought we were done for , platinum mine , rescue of exiles , and all . 
So did I. Shall I keep on with the gas ? Yes , until the indicator shows that the bag is full . 
I'm going to the pilot house . 
Running there , Tom found that Mr. Damon and the Russian had about all they could manage . 
The young inventor helped them and then , when the Falcon was well started on her upward course , Tom set the automatic steering machine , and they had a breathing spell . 
The storm kept up all night , but the danger was practically over , unless something should happen to the machinery , and Tom and Ned kept careful watch to prevent this . 
In the morning they could look down on the storm swept ocean below them , and there was a feeling of thankfulness in their hearts that they were not engulfed in it . 
This is a pretty hard initiation for an amateur , remarked Mr. Petrofsky . 
I never imagined I should be as brave as this in an airship in a storm . 
Oh , you can get used to almost anything , commented Mr. Damon . 
It was three days before the storm blew itself out and then came pleasant weather , during which the Falcon flew rapidly along . 
Our friends busied themselves about many things , talked of what lay before them , and made such plans as they could . 
It was the evening of the fifth day , and they expected to sight the coast of France in the morning . 
Tom was in the pilot house , setting the course for the night run , and Ned had gone to the engine room to look after the oiling of the motor . 
Hardly had he reached the compartment than there was a loud report , a brilliant flash of fire , and the machinery stopped dead . 
What is it ? cried Tom , as he came in on the run , for the indicators in the pilot house had told him something was wrong . 
An accident ! cried Ned . 
A breakdown , Tom ! What shall we do ? CHAPTER XIII SEEKING A QUARREL There was an ominous silence in the engine room , following the flash and the report . 
Almost instantly the airship began to sink , for the propellers had ceased revolving . 
Bless my barograph ! cried Mr. Damon , appearing on the scene . 
We're sinking , Tom ! It's all right , answered our hero calmly . 
It's a bad accident , and may delay us , but there's no danger . 
Ned , start up the gas machine , for they were progressing as an aeroplane then . 
Start that up , and we'll drift along as a dirigible . 
Of course ! Why didn't I think of that ! exclaimed Ned , somewhat provoked at his own want of thought . 
The airship was going down rapidly , but it was the work of but a moment to start the generator , and then the earthward motion was checked . 
We'll have to take our chance of being blown to France , remarked Tom , as he went over to look at the broken electrical machinery . 
But we ought to fetch the coast by morning with this wind . 
Lucky it's blowing our way . 
Then you can't use the propellers ? asked Mr. Petrofsky . 
No , replied Tom , but if we get to France I can easily repair this break . 
It's the platinum bearings again . 
I do hope we'll locate that lost mine , for I need a supply of good reliable metal . 
Then we'll have to land in France ? asked the Russian , and he seemed a trifle uneasy . 
Don't you want to ? Well , I was thinking of our safety . 
Bless my silk hat ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Where is the danger of landing there ? I rather hoped we could spend some time in Paris . 
Then we would be in danger . 
But how are they to know it ? asked Ned , who had come back from the gas machine . 
France , especially in Paris and the larger cities , is a hot bed of political spies , answered Mr. Petrofsky . 
Russia has many there on the secret police , and while the objectors to the Czar's government are also there , they could do little to help us . 
I guess they won't find out about us unless we give it away , was Tom's opinion . 
I'm afraid they will , was the reply of the Russian . 
Undoubtedly word has been cabled by the spies who annoyed us in Shopton , that we are on our way over here . 
You can guess the rest . 
Then let's go somewhere else , suggested Mr. Damon . 
It would be the same anywhere in Europe , replied Ivan Petrofsky . 
There are spies in all the large centres . 
Well , I've got to go to Paris , or some large city to get the parts I need , said Tom . 
Unfortunately I didn't bring any along for the dynamo and magneto , as I should have done , and I can't get the necessary pieces in a small town . 
I'll have to depend on some big machine shop . 
But we might land in some little frequented place , and I could go in to town alone . 
That might answer , spoke the Russian , and it was decided to try that . 
Meanwhile it was somewhat doubtful whether they would reach France , for they were dependent on the wind . 
But it seemed to be blowing steadily in the desired direction , and Tom noted with satisfaction that their progress was comparatively fast . 
He tried to repair the broken machinery but found that he could not , though he spent much of the night over it . 
Hurrah ! cried Ned when morning came , and he had taken an observation . 
There's some kind of land over there . 
The wind freshened while they were at breakfast and using more gas so as to raise them higher Tom directed the course of his airship as best he could . 
He wanted to get high enough so that if they passed over a city they would not be observed . 
Now to get the first train for Paris and get the things I need , exclaimed Tom . 
Can you speak French ? asked Mr. Petrofsky . 
If not I might be of service , but if I go to Paris I might be Never mind , interrupted Tom . 
I guess I can parley enough to get along with . 
He had a small knowledge of the tongue , and with that , and knowing that English was spoken in many places , he felt that he could make out . 
And indeed he had no trouble . 
He easily found his way about the gay capital , and located a machine shop where a specialty was made of parts for automobile and airship motors . 
It was nearly night when he got back to the place where he had left the Falcon , and he found a curious crowd of rustics grouped about it . 
Has anything happened ? he asked of his friends . 
No , everything is quiet , I'm glad to say , replied Mr. Petrofsky . 
I don't think our presence will create stir enough so that the news of it will reach the spies in Paris . 
Still I will feel easier when we're in the air again . 
It will take a day to make the repairs , said Tom , and put in the new pieces of platinum . 
But I'll work as fast as I can . 
He and Ned labored far into the night , and were at it again the next morning . 
Mr. Damon and the Russian were of no service for they did not understand the machinery well enough . 
It was while Tom was outside the craft , filing a piece of platinum in an improvised vise , that a poorly clothed man sauntered up and watched him curiously . 
Tom glanced at him , and was at once struck by a difference between the man's attire and his person . 
Monsieur has a fine airship there , he remarked to Tom . 
Oh , yes , it'll do . 
Tom did not want to encourage conversation . 
Doubtless from America it comes ? The man spoke English but with an accent , and certain peculiarities . 
Maybe so , replied the young inventor . 
Is it permit to inspect the interior ? No , it isn't , came from Tom shortly . 
He had hurt his finger with the file , and he was not in the best of humor . 
Ah , there are secrets then ? persisted the stranger . 
Yes ! said Tom shortly . 
I wish you wouldn't bother me . 
I'm busy , can't you see . 
Ah , does monsieur mean that I have poor eyesight ? The question was snapped out so suddenly , and with such a menacing tone that Tom glanced up quickly . 
He was surprised at the look in the man's eyes . 
Just as you choose to take it , was the cool answer . 
I don't know anything about your eyes , but I know I've got work to do . 
Monsieur is insulting ! rasped out the seeming farmer . 
He is not a Frenchman . 
Now that'll do ! cried Tom , thoroughly aroused . 
I don't want to be too short with you , but I've really got to get this done . 
One side , if you please , and having finished what he was doing , he started toward the airship . 
Monsieur has struck me ! I am insulted ! You shall pay for this ! he cried , jumping to his feet , and making a rush for our hero . 
It was your own fault for bothering me but if you want anything I'll give it to you ! cried Tom , striking a position of defense . 
Never mind him ! Swinging away from the man , the young inventor rushed toward the airship . 
As he entered the pilot house he noticed that his late questioner was racing off in the direction of the village . 
What is it ? What's the matter ? he asked of the Russian . 
Is something more wrong with the airship ? No , I just wanted to get you away from that man . 
Oh , I could take care of myself . 
I know that , but don't you see what his game was ? I listened to him . 
He was seeking a quarrel with you . 
He is a police spy . 
He wanted to get you into a fight and then he and you would be arrested by the local authorities . 
They'd clap you into jail , and hold us all here . 
Was he a spy ? he asked . 
I'm almost sure he was , came the answer . 
He isn't one of the villagers , that's sure , and he isn't a tourist . 
No one else would be in this little out of the way place but a police official . 
He is in disguise , that is certain . 
I believe so , agreed Tom . 
But what was his game ? We are suspected , replied the Russian . 
I was afraid a big airship couldn't land anywhere , in France without it becoming known . 
Word must have been sent to Paris in the night , and this spy came out directly . 
But what will happen now ? Didn't you see where he headed for ? The village . 
He has gone to send word that his trick failed . 
There will be more spies soon , and we may be detained or thrown into jail on some pretext or other . 
They may claim that we have no license , or some such flimsy thing as that . 
They are after me , of course , and I'm sorry that I made you run such danger . 
Perhaps I'd better leave you , and No , you don't ! cried Tom heartily . 
We'll all hang together or we'll hang separately' , as Benjamin Franklin or some of those old chaps once remarked . 
I'm not the kind to desert a friend in the face of danger . 
Bless my revolver ! I should say not ! cried Mr. Damon . 
What's it all about ? Where's the danger ? They told him as briefly as possible , and Ned , who had been working in the motor room , was also informed . 
Well , what's to be done ? asked Tom . 
Had we better get out our ammunition , or shall I take out a French license . 
Neither would do any good , answered the Russian . 
I appreciate your sticking by me , and if you are resolved on that the only thing to do is to complete the repairs as soon as possible and get away from here . 
That's it ! cried Ned . 
We can get more gasolene here , for lots of autos pass along the road through the village . 
Then we needn't stop until we hit the trail for the mine in Siberia ! Hush ! cautioned the Russian . 
You can't tell who may be sneaking around to listen . 
But we ought to leave as soon as we can . 
And we will , said Tom . 
I've got the magneto almost fixed ! Let's get a hustle on then ! urged Ned . 
That fellow meant business from his looks . 
The nerve of him to try to pick a quarrel that way . 
I might have told by his manner that something was wrong , commented Tom , but I thought he was a fresh tramp and I didn't take any pains in answering him . 
But come on , Ned , get busy . 
They did , with such good effect that by noon the machinery was in running shape again , and so far there had been no evidence of the return of the spy . 
Doubtless he was waiting for instructions , and something might happen any minute . 
It only needs a little adjustment of the brushes . 
Ned started for the village where there was a gasolene depot He fancied the villagers regarded him rather curiously , but he did not stop to ask what it meant . 
Another odd fact was that the usual crowd of curious rustics about the airship was missing . 
It was as though they suspected trouble might come , and they did not want to he mixed up in it . 
Never , Ned thought , had he seen a man so slow at getting ready the supply of gasolene . 
I believe he's doing it on purpose to delay us , thought the youth , but it won't do to say anything . 
Something is in the wind . 
But at last Ned , by dint of hard work , got him started , and rode on the gasolene wagon with him . 
Once at the anchored airship , Tom and the others filled the reserve tanks themselves , though the man tried to help . 
However he did more harm than good , spilling several gallons of the fluid . 
Oh , get away , and let us do it ! cried Tom at last . 
I know what you Easy ! cautioned Mr. Petrofsky , with a warning look , and Tom subsided . 
Finally the tanks were full , the man was paid , and he started to drive away . 
Now to make a quick flight ! cried Tom , as he took his place in the pilot house , while Ned went to the engine room . 
Full speed , Ned ! Yes , and we'll need it , too , said the Russian . 
Look ! was the answer , and Ivan Petrofsky pointed across the field over which , headed toward the airship , came the man who had sought a quarrel with Tom . 
And with the spy were several policemen in uniform , their short swords dangling at their sides . 
They're after us ! cried Mr. Damon . 
CHAPTER XV PURSUED Slowly the airship arose , almost too slowly to suit those on board who anxiously watched the oncoming officers . 
In a rage the spy shook his fist at the fast receding craft , and one of the policemen drew his revolver . 
They're going to fire ! cried Ned . 
They can't do much damage , answered Tom coolly . 
A bullet hole in the bag is easily repaired , and anywhere else it won't amount to anything . 
I wonder what that means ? mused Mr. Damon . 
Probably they didn't want to risk getting into trouble , replied the Russian . 
There are strict laws in France about using firearms , and as yet we are accused of no crime . 
We are only suspected , and I suppose the spy didn't want to get into trouble . 
He is on foreign ground , and there might be international complications . 
Then you really think he was a spy ? asked Tom . 
No doubt of it , and I'm afraid this is only the beginning of our trouble . 
In what way ? Well , of course word will be sent on ahead about us , and every where we go they'll be on the watch for us . 
They have our movements pretty well covered . 
We won't make a descent until we get to Siberia , said Tom , and I guess there it will be so lonesome that we won't be troubled much . 
Perhaps , admitted the Russian , but we will have to be on our guard . 
Of course keeping up in the air will be an advantage but they may He stopped suddenly and shrugged his shoulders . 
What were you going to say ? inquired Ned . 
Oh , it's just something that might happen , but it's too remote a possibility to work about . 
The dynamo and magneto were doing much more efficient work since Tom had put the new platinum in , and the Falcon was making better time than ever before . 
They were flying at a moderate height , and could see wondering men , women and children rush out from their houses , to gaze aloft at the strange sight . 
Paris was now far behind , and that night they were approaching the borders of Prussia , as Mn Petrofsky informed them , for he knew every part of Europe . 
Petersburg , and then , after getting far enough to the north , so as to avoid the big cities , they would head due east for Siberia . 
In that way I think we'll avoid any danger from the Russian police , remarked the exile . 
For the next few days they flew steadily on at no remarkable speed , as the extra effort used more gasolene than Tom cared to expend in the motor . 
Mr. Damon gave his friends good meals and they enjoyed their trip very much , though naturally there was some anxiety about whether it would have a successful conclusion . 
Jove ! it will be great to drop down , pick him up , and fly away with him before those Cossacks , or whoever has him , know what's up . 
I'm afraid we can't make such a sensational rescue as that , replied Mr. Petrofsky . 
We'll have to go at it diplomatically . 
That's the only way to get an exile out of Siberia . 
We must get word to him somehow , after we locate him , that we are waiting to help him , and then we can plan for his escape . 
How do you expect to get definite information as to where he might be ? asked Tom . 
I think the only thing to do is to get in touch with some of the revolutionists , answered the Russian . 
They have ways and means of finding out even state secrets . 
I think our best plan will be to land near some small town , when we get to the edge of Siberia . 
If we can conceal the airship , so much the better . 
Then I can disguise myself and go to the village . 
Will it be safe ? inquired the young inventor . 
I'll have to take that chance . 
It's the only way , as I am the only one in our party who can speak Russian . 
That's right , admitted Tom with a laugh . 
I'm afraid I could never master that tongue . 
It's as hard as Chinese . 
Not quite , replied his friend , but it is not an easy language for an American . 
He was rather surprised , on emerging from the motor compartment , to see Mr. Damon standing on the open after deck of the Falcon gazing earnestly toward the rear . 
Star gazing in the day time ? asked Tom with a laugh . 
Bless my individuality ! exclaimed the odd man . 
Where is it ? Straight to the rear , answered Mr. Damon , and it seems to be about a mile up . 
It's been hanging in the same place this ten minutes . 
Oh , I see , spoke Tom , when the speck had been pointed out to him . 
It's there all right , but I guess it's a bird , an eagle perhaps . 
Wait , I'll get a glass and we'll take a look . 
As he was taking the telescope down from its rack in the pilot house , Mr. Petrofsky saw him . 
What's up ? asked the Russian , and the youth told him . 
Must be a pretty big bird to be seen at such a distance as it is , remarked Tom . 
Maybe it isn't a bird , suggested Ivan Petrofsky . 
I'll take a look myself , and , showing something of alarm in his manner , he followed Tom to where Mr. Damon awaited them . 
Ned also came out on deck . 
Quickly adjusting the glass , Tom focused it on the black speck . 
It seemed to have grown larger . 
Me peered at it steadily for several seconds . 
Is it a bird ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Jove ! It's another airship a big biplane ! cried Tom , and there seems to be three men in her . 
An aeroplane ! gasped Ned . 
Bless my deflecting rudder ! cried Mr. Damon . 
An airship in this out of the way place ? for they were flying over a desolate country . 
And they're coming right after us , added Tom , as he continued to gaze . 
I thought so , was the quiet comment of Mr. Petrofsky . 
That is what I started to say a few days ago , he went on , when I stopped , as I hardly believed it possible . 
I thought they might possibly send an aeroplane after us , as both the French and Russian armies have a number of fast ones . 
So they are pursuing us . 
I'm afraid my presence will bring you no end of trouble . 
Let it come ! cried Tom . 
If they can catch up to us they've got a good machine . 
Come on , Ned , let's speed her up , and make them take more of our star dust . 
Wait a minute , advised the Russian , as he took the telescope from Tom , and viewed the ever increasing speck behind them . 
Are you sure of the speed of this craft ? he asked a moment later . 
I never saw the one yet I couldn't pull away from , even after giving them a start , answered the young inventor proudly . 
That is all but my little sky racer . 
I could let them get within speaking distance , and then pull out like the Congressional Limited passing a slow freight . 
Then wait a few minutes , suggested Mr. Petrofsky . 
That is an aeroplane all right , but I can't make out from what country . 
I'd like a better view , and if it's safe we can come closer . 
Oh , it's safe enough , declared Tom . 
I'll get things in shape for a quick move , and he hurried back to the machine room , while the others took turns looking at the on coming aeroplane . 
And it was coming on rapidly , showing that it had tremendous power , for it was a very large one , carrying three men . 
How do you suppose they got on our track ? asked Ned . 
Oh , we must have been reported from time to time , as we flew over cities or towns , replied Mr. Petrofsky . 
You know we're rather large , and can be seen from a good distance . 
Then too , the whole Russian secret police force is at the service of our enemies . 
But we're not over Russia yet , said Mr. Damon . 
Ivan Petrofsky took the telescope and peered down toward the earth . 
They were not a great way above it , and at that moment they were passing a small village . 
Can you tell where we are ? asked the odd man . 
We are just over the border of the land of the Czar , was the quiet answer . 
The imperial flag is flying from a staff in front of one of the buildings down there . 
And here comes that airship , called Ned suddenly . 
They gazed back with alarm , and saw that it was indeed so . 
The big aeroplane had come on wonderfully fast in the last few minutes . 
Tom ! Tom ! cried his chum . 
Better get ready to make a sprint . 
I'm all ready , calmly answered our hero . 
I can let them get almost up to us , and get away , replied Tom . 
The Russian did not answer . 
He was gazing earnestly at the approaching aeroplane . 
A moment later he took the glass down from his eye . 
It's our spy again , he said . 
There are two others with him . 
That is one of the aeroplanes owned by the secret police . 
They are stationed all over Europe , ready for instant service , and they're on our trail . 
Shall I speed up ? cried Tom . 
Yes , get away as fast as you can ! shouted the Russian . 
No telling what they may do , and then , with a hum and a roar the motor of the Falcon increased its speed , and the big airship shot ahead . 
CHAPTER XVI THE NIHILISTS From the pursuing aircraft came a series of sharp explosions that fairly rattled through the clear air . 
Look out for bombs ! yelled Ned . 
Bless my safety match ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Are they anarchists ? It's only their motor hack firing , cried Tom . 
It's all right , They're done for now , well leave them behind . 
Well , we got out of that luckily , remarked Ned , as he looked down to where the spies were making a landing . 
I guess they won't try that trick again . 
I'm afraid they will , predicted Mr. Petrofsky . 
You don't know these government agents as I do . 
They'll fix their engine , and get on our trail again . 
Then we'll make them work for what they get , put in Tom , who , having set the automatic speed accelerator , had rejoined his companions . 
Meanwhile the spies were working frantically over their motor , trying to get it is shape for the pursuit . 
I guess they'll have their own troubles now , remarked Ned . 
We've seen the last of them . 
Don't be too sure , spoke the Russian . 
We may have them after us again . 
We're over the land of the Czar now , and they'll have everything their own way . 
They'll want to stop me at any cost . 
Do you think they suspect that we're after the platinum ? asked Tom . 
I remember some of the landmarks , but my brother is better at that sort of work than I am . 
But I think what they are mostly afraid of is that I have some designs on the life of , say one of the Grand Dukes , or some high official . 
But I am totally opposed to violent measures , went on Mr. Petrofsky . 
I believe in a campaign of education , to gain for the down trodden people what are their rights . 
Do you think they know you are coming to rescue your brother ? asked Tom . 
And I hope not , for once they suspected that , they would remove him to some place where I never could locate him . 
There is a Russian town not far away , and I know a few friends there , There is a large stretch of woodland , and the airship can be easily concealed there . 
All right , agreed the young inventor , down we go , and I hope you get the information want . 
While he was gone Tom , Ned and Mr. Damon busied themselves about the airship , making a few repairs that could not very well be done while it was in motion . 
He'll come all right , declared Ned , as they sat down to supper . 
All about them was an almost impenetrable forest , cut here and there by paths along which , as Mr. Petrofsky had told them , the wood cutters drove their wagons . 
It was quite a surprise therefor , when , as they were leaving the table , a knock was heard on the cabin door . 
Bless my electric bell ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Who can that be ? Mr. Petrofsky of course , answered Ned . 
He wouldn't knock he'd walk right in , spoke Tom , as he went to the door . 
As he opened it he saw several dark bearded men standing there , and in their midst Mr. Petrofsky . 
For one moment our hero feared that his friend had been arrested and that the police bad come to take the rest of them into custody . 
But a word from the exile reassured him . 
These are some of my friends , said Mr. Petrofsky simply . 
They are Nihilists which I am not , but Nihilists yes ! Always ! exclaimed one who spoke English . 
Death to the Czar and the Grand Dukes ! Annihilation to the government ! Gently my friend , gently , spoke Mr. Petrofsky . 
I am opposed to violence you know . 
And then , while his new friends gazed wonderingly at the strange craft , he led them inside . 
Tom and the others were hardly able to comprehend what was about to take place . 
CHAPTER XVII ON TO SIBERIA Has anything happened ? asked Tom . 
Are we suspected ? Have they come to warn us ? No , everything is all right , so far , answered Ivan Petrofsky . 
I didn't have the success I hoped for , and we may have to wait here for a few days to get news of my brother . 
But these men have been very kind to me , he went on , and they have ways of getting information that I have not . 
So they are going to aid me . 
That's right ! exclaimed the one who had first spoken . 
We will yet win you to our cause , Brother Petrofsky . 
Death to the Czar and the Grand Dukes ! Never ! exclaimed the exile firmly . 
But I am grateful for what you can do for me . 
They heard me describe your wonderful airship , he explained to Tom , and wanted to see for themselves . 
The Nihilists were made welcome after Mr. Petrofsky had introduced them . 
There was much jabbering in the Russian tongue , when Mr. Petrofsky and Mr. Androwsky took the others about the craft , explaining how it worked . 
Then you need much wind ? asked Nicolas Androwsky . 
The harder the gale the better she flies , answered Tom proudly . 
Bless my sand bag , but that's right ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , who , up to now had not taken much part in the conversation . 
Ha ! exclaimed Mr. Androwsky , turning suddenly to the odd man . 
No ! No ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , starting back . 
Bless my election ticket ! No ! Never could I throw a bomb . 
Please don't give me one . 
Mr. Damon started to run away . 
A bomb ! exclaimed the Nihilist , and then he drew from his pocket some pamphlets printed in Russian . 
Here are some of the tracts we distribute to convert unbelievers to our cause , he went on . 
Read them and you will understand what we are striving for . 
They will convert you , I am sure . 
He went on , following the rest of the party , while Mr. Damon dropped back with Ned . 
Bless my gas meter ! gasped the odd man , as he stared at the queerly printed documents in his hand . 
I thought he was going to give me a bomb to throw ! I don't blame you , said Ned in a low voice . 
They look like desperate men , but probably they have suffered many hardships , and they think their way of righting a wrong is the only way . 
I suppose you'll read those tracts , he added with a smile . 
Hum ! I'm afraid not , answered Mr. Damon . 
I might just as well try to translate a Chinese laundry check . 
But I'll save 'em for souvenirs , and he carefully put them in his pocket , as if he feared they might unexpectedly turn into a bomb and blow up the airship . 
Well , you certainly have a wonderful craft here wonderful , spoke Mr. Androwsky . 
I'm afraid I can't lend it to you , said Tom , and he could scarcely repress a shudder at the terrible ideas of the Nihilists . 
It would never do , agreed Ivan Petrofsky . 
The campaign of education is the only way . 
There were gutteral objections on the part of the other Russians , and they turned to more cheerful subjects of talk . 
What are your plans ? asked Tom of the exile . 
You say you can get no trace here of your brother ? No , he seems to have totally disappeared from sight . 
Maybe he is in the lost platinum mine , suggested Ned . 
No , that has not been discovered , declared the exile , or my friends here would have heard of it . 
That is still to be found . 
And we'll do it , in the air glider , declared Tom . 
By the way , Mr. Petrofsky , would it not be a good plan to ask your friends the location of the place where the winds constantly blow with such force . 
It occurs to me that in some such way we might locate the mine . 
It would be of use if there was only one place of the gales , replied the exile . 
But Siberia has many such spots in the mountain fastnesses places which , by the peculiar formation of the land , have constant eddys of air over them . 
No , the only way is for us to go as nearly as possible to the place where my brother and I were imprisoned , and search there . 
But what is that you said about us having to stay here , to get some news of your brother ? asked Tom . 
I had hoped to get some information here , resumed Mr. Petrofsky , but my friends here are without news . 
However , they are going to make inquiries , and we will have to stay here until they have an answer . 
It will be safe , they think , as there are not many police in town , and the local authorities are not very efficient . 
So the airship will remain here , and , from time to time I will go to the village , disguised , and see if any word has come . 
And we will bring you news as soon as we get it , promised Mr. Androwsky . 
You are not exactly one of us , but you are against the government , and , therefor , a brother . 
But you will be one of us in time . 
Never , replied the exile with a smile . 
My only hope now is to get my brother safely away , and then we will go and live in free America . 
But , Tom , I hope I won't put you out by delaying here . 
Not a bit of it . 
More than half the object of our trip is to rescue your brother . 
We must do that first . 
Now as to details , and they fell to discussing plans . 
It was late that night when the Nihilists left the airship , first having made a careful inspection to see that they were not spied upon . 
They promised at once to set to work their secret methods of getting information . 
For several days the airship remained in the vicinity of the Russian town . 
Our friends were undisturbed by visitors , as they were in a forest where the villagers seldom came and the nearest wood road was nearly half a mile off . 
Every day either Mr. Petrofsky went in to town to see the Nihilists or some of them came out to the Falcon , usually at night . 
Well , have you any word yet ? asked Tom , after about a week had passed . 
Nothing yet , answered the exile , and his tone was a bit hopeless . 
But we have not given up . 
All the most likely places have been tried , but he is not there . 
We have had traces of him , but they are not fresh ones . 
He seems to have been moved from one mine to another . 
Probably they feared I would make an attempt to rescue him . 
But I have not given up . 
Me is somewhere in Siberia . 
And we'll find him ! cried Tom with enthusiasm . 
For three days more they lingered , and then , one night , when they were just getting ready to retire , there was a knock on the cabin door . 
Mr. Petrofsky had been to the village that day , and had received no news . 
He had only returned about an hour before . 
Some one's knocking , announced Ned , as if there could be any doubt of it . 
Bless my burglar alarm ! gasped Mr. Damon . 
It might be their friends , and it might be But Mr. Petrofsky solved the riddle by throwing back the portal , and there stood the Nihilist , Nicolas Androwsky . 
Is there anything the matter ? asked the exile quickly . 
We have news , was the cautious answer , as the Nihilist slipped in , and closed the door behind him . 
News of my brother ? Of your brother ! He is in a sulphur mine in the Altai Mountains , near the city of Abakansk . 
Where's that ? asked Tom for he had forgotten most of his Russian geography . 
The Altai Mountains are a range about the middle of Siberia , explained Mr. Petrofsky . 
They begin at the Kirghiz Steppes , and run west . 
It is a wild and desolate place . 
I hope we can find poor Peter alive . 
And this city of Abakansk ? went on the young inventor . 
It is many miles from here , but I can give you a good map , said the Nihilist . 
Some of our friends are there , he added with a half growl . 
I wish we could rescue all of them . 
We'd like to , spoke Tom . 
But I fear it is impossible . 
But now that we have a clew , come on ! Let's start at once ! It may be dangerous to stay here . 
On to Siberia ! CHAPTER XVIII IN A RUSSIAN PRISON The news they had waited for had come at last . 
It might be a false clew , but it was something to work on , and Tom was tired of inaction . 
Then , too , even after they had started , the prisoner might be moved and they would have to trace him again . 
But that is the latest information we could get , said Mr. Androwsky . 
It came through some of our Anarchist friends , and I believe is reliable . 
Can you soon make a thousand miles in your airship ? Yes , answered Tom , if I push her to the limit . 
Then do so , advised the Nihilist , for there is need of haste . 
In making inquiries our friends might incur suspicions and Peter Petrofsky may be exiled to some other place . 
Oh , we'll get there , cried Tom . 
Ned , see to the gas machine . 
Mr. Damon , you can help me in the pilot house . 
Here is a map of the best route , said the Nihilist , as he handed one to Mr. Petrofsky . 
It will take you there the shortest way . 
But how can you steer when high in the air ? By compass , explained Tom . 
We'll get there , never fear , and we're grateful for your clew . 
After we get well away we can turn on the electrics , remarked Tom , and if they see us at a distance they may take us for a meteor . 
But , so close as this , they'd get wise in a minute . 
He could just make out the clearing where they had rested for over a week , and he was startled to see lights bobbing in it . 
I say , Mr. Petrofsky ! he called . 
Did we leave any of our lanterns behind us ? I don't believe so , answered the exile . 
Lanterns ? No , answered the young inventor . 
Before we started I took down the only one we had out . 
Setting the automatic steering apparatus , he joined Mr. Damon and the Russian . 
The lights were now dimly visible , moving about in the forest clearing . 
It's just as if they were looking for something , said Tom . 
Can it be that any of your Nihilist friends , Mr. Petrofsky are Friends no friends enemies ! cried the Russian . 
I understand now ! We got away just in time . 
Those are police agents who are looking for us ! They must have received word about our being there . 
Androwsky and the others never carry lights when they go about . 
They know the country too well , and then , too , it leads to detection . 
No , those are police spies . 
A few minutes later , and we would have been discovered . 
As it is we're right over their heads , and they don't know it , chuckled Tom . 
The twinkling lights in the forest clearing disappeared from sight , and the seekers went on in the darkness . 
There was no danger of being seen now , for they were quite high . 
We've done pretty well , so far , commented Ned . 
I think we will have easier work rescuing Mr. Petrofsky's brother than in locating the mine . 
I don't know about that , answered the Russian . 
It is almost impossible to rescue a person from Siberia . 
They were passing over a desolate country , for they avoided the vicinity of large towns and cities . 
I wonder when we'll strike Siberia ? mused Tom one afternoon , as they sat on the outer deck , enjoying the air . 
At this rate of progress , very soon . 
answered the exile , after glancing at the map . 
We should be at the foot of the Ural mountains in a few hours , and across them in the night . 
Then we will be in Siberia . 
They are , he announced . 
We will cross between Orsk and Iroitsk . 
In the morning we will be in Siberia the land of the exiles . 
And they were , morning seeing them flying over a most desolate stretch of landscape . 
Onward they flew , covering verst after verst of loneliness . 
I'm going to put on a little more speed , announced Tom , after a visit to the storeroom , where were kept the reserve tanks of gasolene . 
I've got more fluid than I thought I had , and as we're on the ground now I want to hurry things . 
I'm going to make better time , and he yanked over the lever of the accelerator , sending the Falcon ahead at a rapid rate . 
Bless my safety valve ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Something has gone wrong again . 
Tom ran to the motor , and , at the same time the Falcon which was being used as an aeroplane and not as a dirigible , began to sink . 
We're going down ! cried Ned . 
Well , you know what to do . 
The gas bag ! Turn on the generator ! Ned ran to it , but , in spite of his quick action , the craft continued to slide downward . 
She won't work ! he cried . 
Then the intake pipe must be stopped ! answered the young inventor . 
Never mind , I'll volplane to earth and we can make repairs . 
That magneto has gone out of business again . 
Don't land here ! cried Ivan Petrofsky . 
Why not ? Because we are approaching a large town Owbinsk I think it is the police there will be there to get us . 
Keep on to the forest again ! I can't ! cried Tom . 
We've got to go down , police or no police . 
Running to the pilot house , he guided the craft so that it would safely volplane to earth . 
They could all see that now they were approaching a fairly large town , and would probably land on its outskirts . 
Through the glass Ned could make out people staring up at the strange sight . 
They'll be ready to receive us , he announced grimly . 
I hope they have no dynamite bombs for us , murmured Mr. Damon . 
Meanwhile the Falcon continued to descend . 
Maybe I can make quick repairs , and get away before they realize who we are , said Tom , as he got ready for the landing . 
They came down in a big field , and , almost before the bicycle wheels had ceased revolving , under the application of the brakes , several men came running toward them . 
Here they come ! cried Mr. Damon . 
They are only farmers , said the exile . 
He had donned his dark glasses again , and looked like anything but a Russian . 
Lively , Ned ! cried Tom . 
Let's see if we can't make repairs and get off again . 
The two lads frantically began work , and they soon had the magneto in running order . 
Their commander called something to them . 
What is he saying ? cried Tom to Mr. Petrofsky . 
He is telling them to surround us so that we can not get a running start , such as we need to go up . 
Well , I'm going to have a try , declared the young inventor . 
He jumped to the pilot house , yelling to Ned to start the motor , but it was too late . 
I guess it's all up with us , groaned Ned . 
And it seemed to for , a moment later , an officer and several aides galloped forward , calling out something in Russian . 
What is it ? asked Tom . 
He says we are under arrest , translated the exile . 
What for ? demanded the young inventor . 
Ivan Petrofsky shrugged his shoulders . 
It is of little use to ask now , he answered . 
It is best to keep quiet , and go with them . 
Go where ? cried Tom . 
To prison , I suppose , answered the exile . 
Keep quiet , and leave it to me . 
I will do all I can . 
I don't believe they will recognize me . 
Bless my search warrant ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Then the doors of the Russian prison of Owbinsk closed on Tom and his friends , while their airship was left at the mercy of their enemies . 
CHAPTER XIX LOST IN A SALT MINE The blow had descended so suddenly that it was paralyzing . 
Tom and his friends did not know what to do , but they saw the wisdom of the course of leaving everything to Ivan Petrofsky . 
lie was a Russian , and he knew the Russian police ways to his sorrow . 
I'm not afraid , said Tom , when they had been locked in a large prison room , evidently set apart for the use of political , rather than criminal , offenders . 
We're United States citizens , and once our counsel hears of this as he will there'll be some merry doings in Oskwaski , or whatever they call this place . 
But I am worried about what they may do to the Falcon . 
Have no fears on that score , said the Russian exile . 
They know the value of a good airship , and they won't destroy her . 
What will they do then ? asked Tom . 
Keep her for their own use , perhaps . 
I'll destroy her first ! If you get the chance ! interposed the exile . 
But we're American citizens ! cried Tom , and You forget that I am not , interrupted Mr. Petrofsky . 
I can't claim the protection of your flag , and that is why I wish to remain unknown . 
The more trouble we make , the more important they will know us to be . 
If we hope to accomplish anything we must act cautiously . 
But my airship ! cried Tom . 
They won't do anything to that right away , declared the Russian in a whisper for he knew sometimes the police listened to the talk of prisoners . 
They were served with food in their prison , but to all inquiries made by Ivan Petrofsky , evasive answers were returned . 
He spoke in poor , broken Russian , so that he would not be taken for a native of that country . 
Had he been , he would have at once been in great danger of being accused as an escaped exile . 
Finally a man who , the exile whispered to his Companions , was the local governor , came to their prison . 
He eagerly asked questions as to their mission , and Mr. Petrofsky answered them diplomatically . 
I don't think he'll make much out of what I told him , said the exile when the governor had gone . 
I let him think we were scientists , or pleasure seekers , airshipping for our amusement . 
He tried to tangle me up politically , but I knew enough to keep out of such traps . 
What's going to become of us ? asked Ned . 
We will be detained a few days until they find out more about us . 
Their spies are busy , I have no doubt , and they are telegraphing all over Europe about us . 
What about my airship ? asked Tom . 
I spoke of that , answered the exile . 
That touched him , for , in spite of their power , these Russians are miserably paid . 
Oh , all is not lost yet , though I don't like the looks of things . 
They were separated , but as the cells adjoined on a corridor they could talk to each other . 
With some coarse food , and a little water , Tom and his friends were left alone . 
Say I don't like this ! cried our hero , after a pause . 
Me either , chimed in Ned . 
Bless my burglar alarm ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
It's an awful disgrace ! If my wife ever heard of me being in jail She may never hear of it ! interposed Tom . 
Bless my heart ! cried the odd man . 
They discussed their plight at length , but nothing could be done , and they settled themselves to uneasy slumber . 
No one came to see them but a villainous looking guard , who brought them their poor meals . 
The governor ignored them , and Mr. Petrofsky did not know what to think . 
Well , I'm getting sick of this ! exclaimed Tom I wish I knew where my airship was . 
I fancy it's in the same place , replied the exile . 
From the way the governor acted I think he'd be afraid to have it moved . 
If I could only get word to some of my Revolutionary friends it might do some good , but I guess I can't . 
We'll just have to wait . 
Another day passed , and nothing happened . 
But that night , when the guard came to bring their suppers , something did occur . 
Hello ! we've got a new one ! exclaimed Tom , as he noted the man . 
Not so bad looking , either . 
The man peered into his cell , and said something in Russian . 
Nothing doing , remarked the young inventor with a short laugh . 
But , no sooner had the man's words penetrated to the cell of Ivan Petrofsky , that the exile called out something . 
The guard started , hastened to that cell door , and for a few seconds there was an excited dialogue in Russian . 
Boys ! Mr. Damon ! We're saved ! suddenly cried out Mr. Petrofsky . 
Bless my door knob ! You don't say so ! gasped the odd man . 
How ? Has the Czar sent orders to release us . 
No , but somehow my Revolutionary friends have heard about my arrest , and they have arranged for our release secretly of course . 
This guard is affiliated with the Nihilist group that got on the trail of my brother . 
He bribed the other guard to let him take his place for to night , and now Yes ! What is it ? cried Tom . 
He's going to open the cell doors and let us out ! But how can we get past the other guards , upstairs ? asked Ned . 
We're not going that way , explained Mr. Petrofsky . 
There is a secret exit from this corridor , through a tunnel that connects with a large salt mine . 
Once we are in there we can make our way out . 
Ask him if he's heard anything of my airship ? asked Tom . 
Mr. Petrofsky put the question rapidly in Russian and then translated the answer . 
It's in the same place . 
Working rapidly , the Nihilist guard soon had the cell doors open , for he had the keys , and our friends stepped out into the corridor . 
This way , called Ivan Petrofsky , as he followed their liberator , who spoke in whispers . 
He says he will lead us to the salt mine , tell us how to get out and then he must make his own escape . 
Then he isn't coming with us ? asked Ned . 
No , it would not he safe . 
But he will tell us how to get out . 
It seems that years ago some prisoners escaped this way , and the authorities closed up the tunnel . 
But a cavein of the salt mine opened a way into it again . 
They followed their queer guide , who led them down the corridor . 
He paused at the end , and then , diving in behind a pile of rubbish , he pulled away some boards . 
A black opening , barely large enough for a man to walk in upright , was disclosed . 
In there ? cried Tom . 
In there , answered Mr. Petrofsky . 
They could hear the board being pulled back into place behind them . 
Forward ! cried the exile , and forward they went . 
It was not a pleasant journey , being through an uneven tunnel in the darkness . 
Half a mile later they emerged into a large salt mine , that seemed to be directly beneath the town . 
Work in this part had been abandoned long ago , all the salt there was left being in the shape of large pillars , that supported the roof . 
It sparkled dully in the candle light . 
Now let me see if I remember the turnings , murmured Mr. Petrofsky . 
He said to keep on for half an hour , and we would come out in a little woods not far from where our airship was anchored . 
Twisting and turning , here and there in the semi darkness , stumbling , and sometimes falling over the uneven floor , the little party went on . 
Did you say half an hour ? asked Tom , after a while . 
Yes , replied the Russian . 
We've been longer than that , announced the young inventor , after a look at his watch . 
Bless my timetable ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Are you sure ? asked Mr. Petrofsky . 
Yes , answered Tom in a low voice . 
The Russian looked about him , flashing the candle on several turnings and tunnels . 
Suddenly Ned uttered a cry . 
Why , we passed this place a little while before ! he said . 
I remember this pillar that looks like two men wrestling ! It was true . 
They all remembered it when they saw it again . 
Back in the same place ! mused the Russian . 
Then we have doubled on our tracks . 
I'm afraid we're lost ! Lost in a Russian salt mine ! gasped Tom , and his words sounded ominous in that gloomy place . 
CHAPTER XX THE ESCAPE For a space of several seconds no one moved or spoke . 
In the flickering light of the candle they looked at one another , and then at the fantastic pillars of salt all about them . 
Then Mr. Damon started forward . 
Bless my trolley car ! he exclaimed . 
It isn't possible ! There must be some mistake . 
If we'll keep on we'll come out all right . 
You know your way about , don't you , Mr. Petrofsky ? I thought I did , from what the guard told us . 
but it seems I must have taken a wrong turning . 
Then it's easily remedied , suggested Tom All we'll have to do will be to go to the place where we started , and begin over again . 
Of course , agreed Ned , and they all seemed more cheerful . 
And if we start out once more , and get lost again , then what ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Never ! cried the exile . 
It would be the most dangerous thing in the world to go back to the prison . 
Our escape has probably been discovered by this time , and to return would only be to put our heads in the noose . 
Oh , we'll get out ! declared Ned , who was something of an optimist . 
I remember once a party of prisoners were lost in a large salt mine , and were missed for several days . 
What happened to them ? asked Tom . 
I don't like to talk about it , replied the Russian with a shudder . 
Bless my soul ! Was it as bad as that ? asked Mr. Damon . 
It was , replied the exile . 
But now let's see if we can find our way back , and start afresh . 
I'll be more careful next time , and watch the turns more closely . 
But he did not get the chance . 
They could not find the tunnel whence they had started . 
Turn after turn they took , down passage after passage sometimes in such small ones that they almost had to crawl . 
But it was of no use . 
They could not find their way back to the starting place , and they could not find the opening of the mine . 
They had used two of the slow burning candles and they had only half a dozen or so left . 
When these were gone But they did not like to think of that , and stumbled on and on . 
They did not talk much , for they were too worried . 
Finally Ned gasped I'd give a good deal for a drink of water . 
So would I , added his chum . 
But what's the use of wishing ? If there was a spring down here it would be salt water . 
But I know what I would do if I could . 
What ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Go back to the prison . 
At least we wouldn't starve there , and we'd have something to drink . 
If they kept us we know we could get free sometime . 
Perhaps never ! exclaimed Ivan Petrofsky . 
It is better to keep on here , and , as for me , I would rather die here than go back to a Russian prison . 
We must we shall get out ! But it was idle talk . 
Gradually they lost track of time as they staggered on , and they hardly knew whether a day had passed or whether it was but a few hours since they had been lost . 
Of their sufferings in that salt mine I shall not go into details . 
There are enough unpleasant things in this world without telling about that . 
They must have wandered around for at least a day and a half , and in all that while they had not a drop of water , and not a thing to eat . 
Back and forth they wandered , up and down in the galleries of the old salt mine . 
They were merely hoping against hope . 
It's worse than the underground city of gold , said Ned in hollow tones , as he staggered on . 
His head was feeling light . 
It was , as they learned later , just about two days after the time when they entered the mine that they managed to get out . 
Forty eight hours , most of them of intense suffering . 
They were burning their last candle , and when that was out they knew they would have the horrors of darkness to fight against , as well as those of hunger and thirst . 
But fate was kind to them . 
Look ! Look ! he whispered . 
Another candle ! Someone someone is searching for us ! We are saved ! It may be the police ! said Ned . 
That is not a candle , spoke the Russian in hollow tones as he looked to where Tom pointed , to a little glimmer of light . 
Friends , we are saved , and by Providence ! That is a star , shining through the opening of the mine . 
We are saved ! Eagerly they pressed forward , and they had not gone far before they knew that the exile was right . 
They felt the cool night wind on their hot cheeks . 
Thank heaven ! gasped Tom , as he pushed on . 
A moment later , climbing over the rusted rails on which the mine cars had run with their loads of salt , they staggered into the open . 
The Falcon ! gasped Tom . 
He started toward her , for she was but a short distance from a little clump of trees into which they had emerged from the opening of the salt mine . 
There , on the same little plane where they had landed in her was the airship . 
She had not been moved . 
Wait ! cautioned Ivan Petrofsky . 
Hardly had he spoken than there walked into the faint starlight on the side of the ship nearest them , a Cossack soldier with his rifle over his shoulder . 
We can't get her ! gasped Ned . 
We've got to get her ! declared Tom . 
We'll die if we don't ! But the guards ! They'll arrest us ! said the exile . 
An instant later a second soldier joined the first , and they could be seen conversing . 
They then resumed their pacing around the anchored craft . 
Evidently they were waiting for the escaped prisoners to come up when they would give the alarm and apprehend them . 
What can we do ? asked Mr. Damon . 
I have a plan , said Tom weakly . 
It's the only chance , for we're not strong enough to tackle them . 
Every time they go around on the far side of the airship we must creep forward . 
When they come on this side we'll lie down . 
I doubt if they can see us . 
Once we are on hoard we can cut the ropes , and start off . 
Everything is all ready for a start if they haven't monkeyed with her , and I don't think they have . 
We've got room enough to run along as an aeroplane and mount upward . 
The others agreed , and they put the plan into operation . 
When the Cossack guards were out of sight the escaped prisoners crawled forward , and when the soldiers came into view our friends waited in silence . 
Silently Tom crept to the motor room . 
He had to work in absolute darkness , for the gleam of a light would have drawn the fire of the guards . 
But the youth knew every inch of his invention . 
The only worriment was whether or not the motor would start up after the break down , not having been run since it was so hastily repaired . 
Still he could only try . 
He looked out , and saw the guards pacing back and forth . 
They did not know that the much sought prisoners were within a few feet of them . 
Ned was in the pilot house . 
He could see a clear field in front of him . 
Suddenly Tom pulled the starting lever . 
There was a little clicking , followed by silence . 
Was the motor going to revolve ? It answered the next moment with a whizz and a roar . 
Here we go ! cried the young inventor , as the big machine shot forward on her flight . 
Already it was beyond the reach of the rifles . 
Yes , but take only a little , cautioned Tom . 
Oh ! it doesn't seem possible that we are free ! He switched on a few interior lights , and by their glow the faint and starving platinum seekers found water and food . 
Their craft had , apparently , not been touched in their absence , and the machinery ran well . 
When the young inventor awoke he looked below and could see nothing nothing but a sea of mist . 
What's this ? he cried . 
About over the province of Irtutsk , was the answer . 
That's so we've got to drop , said Tom . 
I must get the gas pipe repaired . 
I wish we could see over what soft of a place we were so as to know whether it would be safe to land . 
I wish the mist would clear away . 
It did , about noon , and they noted that they were over a desolate stretch of country , in which it would be safe to make a landing . 
Bringing the aeroplane down on as smooth a spot as he could pick out , Tom and Ned were soon at work clearing out the clogged pipe of the gas generator . 
Startled they looked up , to see a burly Russian staring at them . 
What do you make of this , Ned ? asked Tom , in a low voice . 
I don't know what to make of it . 
He can't be an officer , in that rig , and he has no one with him . 
I guess we haven't anything to be afraid of . 
I'm going to ask him what he wants . 
Which Tom did in his plainest English . 
At once the man broke into a stream of confused Russian , and he kept it up until Tom held up his hand for silence . 
I'm sorry , but I can't understand you , said the young inventor . 
I'll call some one who can , though , and , raising his voice , he summoned Ivan Petrofsky who , with Mr. Damon , was inside the airship doing some small repairs . 
There's a Russian out here , Mr. Petrofsky , said Tom , and what he wants I can't make out . 
This man is an escaped convict , as I once was . 
I recognized him by certain signs as soon as I saw him , though I had never met him before . 
There are certain marks by which a Siberian exile can never be forgotten , he added significantly . 
He made his escape from the mines some time ago , and has suffered great hardships since . 
The revolutionists help him when they can , but he has to keep in concealment and travels from town to town as best he may . 
But he did not know I was aboard . 
And does he know you ? asked Tom . 
Does he know you are trying to rescue your brother ? No , but I will tell him . 
There was another exchange of the Russian language , and it seemed to have a surprising result . 
For , no sooner had Ivan Petrofsky mentioned his brother , than the other , whose name was Alexis Borious seemed greatly excited . 
Mr. Petrofsky was equally so at the reply his new acquaintance made , and fairly shouted to Tom , Ned and Mr. Damon . 
Friends , I have unexpected good news ! It is well that we met this man or we would have gone many miles out of our way . 
My brother has been moved to another mine since the revolutionists located him for me . 
He is in a lonely district many miles from here . 
This man was in the same mine with him , until my brother was transferred , and then Mr. Borious escaped . 
We will have to change our plans . 
And where are we to head for now ? asked Tom . 
Near to the town of Haskaski , where my poor brother is working in a sulphur mine ! Then let's get a move on ! cried Tom with enthusiasm . 
Still he knows that to trust himself to it is better than being captured , and sent back to the mines to starve to death ! Good ! cried Tom . 
And if he wants to , and all goes well , we'll take him out of Russia with us . 
Now get busy , Ned , and we'll have this machine in shape again soon . 
Then they went aloft , and making a change in their route , as suggested by Mr. Borious , they headed for the desolate sulphur region . 
For several days they sailed on , and gradually a plan of rescue was worked out . 
But aren't the prisoners chained ? asked Tom . 
No , they depend on guards to prevent escapes . 
Then we'll try that way , decided the young inventor . 
On and on they sailed , the Falcon working admirably . 
If we go any closer we may be observed . 
We had better remain hidden in some grove of trees so that at nightfall we can go forth to the rescue . 
But how can we find it after dark ? asked Ned . 
You can easily tell by the lights in the barracks , was the answer . 
I can stand in the pilot house to direct you , for nearly all these exile prisons are alike . 
The prisoners will march in a long line from the mine . 
But night finally approached and then the great airship went silently aloft , ready to hover over the prison ground . 
Fortunately there was little wind and she could be used as a balloon , thus avoiding the noise of the motor . 
The next thing I do , when I get home , remarked Tom , as they drifted along . 
Will be to make a silent airship . 
I think they would be very useful . 
With Mr. Borious in the pilot house , to point out the way , Tom steered through the fast gathering darkness . 
The Russian had soon become used to the airship , and was not at all afraid . 
Can you go just where you want to , as a balloon ? asked the new guide . 
No , but almost , replied Tom . 
At the last moment I've got to take a chance and start the motor to send us just where we want to go . 
That's why I think a silent airship would be a great thing . 
You could get up on the enemy before he knew it . 
There are the prison barracks , said the guide a little later , his talk being translated by Mr. Petrofsky . 
Below and a little ahead of them could been seen a cluster of lights . 
Yes , that looks like a line of prisoners , remarked Ned , who was peering through a pair of night glasses . 
Where ? asked Tom eagerly , and they were pointed out to him . 
He took an observation , and exclaimed There they are , sure enough . 
Now if your brother is only among them , Mr. Petrofsky , we'll soon have him on board . 
Heaven grant that he may be there ! said the exile in a low voice . 
It was followed , a moment later , by angry shouts from the guards . 
The echo of the approaching footsteps came nearer , the shouts of the guards redoubled , and then came the sound of many men running in pursuit . 
Hurry , Peter , hurry ! cried Mr. Petrofsky , and , as he spoke in Russian the guards , of course , understood . 
Suddenly a rifle shot rang out , but the weapon seemed to have been fired in the air . 
A moment later a dark figure clambered aboard the airship . 
Peter , is it you ? cried Ivan Petrofsky , hoarsely . 
Yes ! Yes , Tom ! Go quickly ! called Ivan Petrofsky , as he folded his brother in his arms . 
Bless my bullet pouch ! cried Mr. Damon . 
They must be quite excited . 
Shouldn't wonder , calmly observed Ned , as he went to help his chum in managing the airship . 
But it won't do them any good . 
And right from under their noses , too , added Ivan Petrofsky exultingly . 
This rescue of an exile will go down in the history of Russia . 
The two exile brothers were gazing fondly at each other , for now that the Falcon was so high , Tom ventured to turn on the lights . 
His wonder at his startling and unexpected rescue man well be imagined , but the joy at being reunited to his brother overshadowed everything for the time being . 
But when he had a chance to look about , and see what a strange craft he was in , his amazement knew no bounds , and he was like a child . 
He asked countless questions , and Ivan Petrofsky and Mr. Borious took turns in answering them . 
He could not talk enough about it . 
By degrees the story of how Tom and his friends had started for Russia was told , and there was added the detail of how Mr. Borious came to be picked up . 
But brother Ivan , you did not come all that distance to rescue me did you ? asked Peter . 
Yes , partly , and partly to find the platinum mine . 
What ? The lost mine that you and I stumbled upon in that terrible storm ? That is the one , Peter . 
Then , Tom Swift may as well return . 
I guess he doesn't understand about my air glider , said Tom with a smile , when this was translated to him . 
I wish I had a chance to put it together , and show him how it works . 
Oh , it will work all right , replied Ned , who was very proud of his friend's inventive ability . 
I'd like to get on the track of that platinum treasure . 
And we will do all in our power to aid you . 
My brother and I owe much to you in fact Peter owes you his life do you not ? and he turned to him . 
I do , was the firm answer . 
Oh , nonsense ! exclaimed Tom , who did not like to he praised . 
Then what plans shall we make ? asked Tom , after a little more talk . 
This was done the next day , the present maps aboard the Falcon being consulted , and the brothers comparing notes . 
They began to lay out a stretch of country in which it was most likely the lost mine lay . 
It took several days to do this , for sometimes one brother would forget some point , and again the other would . 
But at last they agreed on certain facts . 
This is the nearest we can come to it , said Ivan Petrofsky to Tom . 
The lost platinum mine lies somewhere between the city of Iakutsk and the first range of the Iablonnoi mountains . 
Those are the northern and southern boundaries . 
As for the western one , it is most likely the Lena river , and the eastern one the Amaga river . 
So you see you have quite a large stretch of country to search , Tom Swift . 
Yes , I should say I had , agreed the young inventor . 
But I have had harder tasks . 
Now that I know where to head for I'll get there as soon as possible . 
And what will you do when you arrive ? asked Ned . 
Fly about in the Falcon , in ever widening circles , starting as near the centre of that area as possible , replied Tom . 
Bless my gas meter ! cried Mr. Damon . 
That's the talk ! Tom put his plan into operation at once , by heading the nose of his craft for the desolate region mapped out by the Russian brothers . 
The days that followed were filled with weary searching . 
It was like the time when they had sought for the plain of the great ruined Temple in Mexico , that they might locate the underground city of gold . 
Only in this case they had no such landmark as a great Aztec ruin to guide them . 
The Russian brothers , staggering about in the storm , had seen the mine under different conditions from what it would be viewed now . 
Then it was winter in Siberia . 
Now it was summer , though it was not very warm . 
On and on sailed the Falcon . 
The weather could not have been better , but for once Tom wanted bad weather . 
He wanted a blow the harder the better and all eyes anxiously watched the anemometer , or wind gage . 
But ever it revolved lazily about in the gentle breeze . 
Oh , for a hurricane ! cried Tom . 
He got his wish sooner than he anticipated . 
I say , what's the matter ? he cried . 
Bless my But he had no time to say more . 
The airship fairly stood on end , and then , turning completely about , was rapidly driven in the opposite direction , though her propellers were working rapidly . 
What's up ? yelled Ned . 
We are capsizing ! shouted Ivan Petrofsky , and indeed it seemed so , for the airship was being forced over . 
I guess we've struck what we want ! cried Tom . 
In spite of all that Tom and Ned could do , the Falcon was whipped about like a feather in the wind . 
Sometimes she was pointing her nose to the clouds , and again earthward . 
Again she would be whirling about in the grip of the hurricane , like some fantastic dancer , and again she would roll dangerously . 
Had she turned turtle it probably would have been the last of her and of all on board . 
Yank that deflecting lever as far down as it will go ! yelled Tom to his chum . 
She won't go any farther . 
All right , hold her so . 
Mr. Damon , let all the gas out of the bag . 
I want to be as heavy as possible , and get to earth as soon as we can . 
Bless my comb and brush ! cried the odd man . 
I don't know what's going to become of us . 
You will know , pretty soon , if the gas isn't let out ! retorted Tom grimly , and then Mr. Damon hastened to the generator compartment , and opened the emergency outlet . 
Whew ! That was a narrow squeak ! cried Ned , as he got out . 
How'd you do it , Tom ? I hardly know myself . 
But it's evident that we're on the right spot now . 
But the wind has stopped blowing , said Mr. Damon . 
It was only a gust . 
It was the worst kind of a gust I ever want to see , declared the young inventor . 
My air glider ought to work to perfection in that . 
If you think the wind has died out , Mr. Damon , just walk in that direction , and Tom pointed off to the left . 
Bless my umbrella , I will , was the reply and the odd man started off . 
He had not gone far , before he was seen to put his hand to his cap . 
He's getting into the blow zone , said Tom in a low voice . 
The next moment Mr. Damon was seen to stagger and fall , while his cap was whisked from his head , and sent high into the air , almost instantly disappearing from sight . 
Some wind that , murmured Ned , in rather awe struck tones . 
That's so , agreed his chum . 
Bless my anemometer ! he gasped , when Tom and Ned had given him a hand up . 
What happened ? It was the great wind , explained Tom . 
It blows only in a certain zone , like a draft down a chimney . 
It is like a cyclone , only that goes in a circle . 
This is a straight wind , but the path of it seems to be as sharply marked as a trail through the forest . 
I guess we're here all right . 
Does this location look familiar to you ? he asked of the Russian brothers . 
I can't say that it does , answered Ivan . 
But then it was winter when we were here . 
And , another thing , put in Peter . 
That wind zone is quite wide . 
The mine may be in the middle , or near the other edge . 
That's so , agreed Tom . 
We'll soon see what we can do . 
Come on , Ned , let's get the air glider out and put her together . 
She'll have a test as is a test , now . 
I shall not describe the tedious work of re assembling Tom Swift's latest invention in the air craft line his glider . 
Tom tested the speed of it one day with a special anemometer , and found that only a few hundred feet inside the zone the wind blew nearly one hundred miles an hour . 
What is it like inside , I wonder ? asked Ned . 
It must be terrific , was his chum's opinion . 
Dare you risk it , Tom ? Of course . 
The harder it blows the better the glider works . 
What do you think causes the wind to blow so peculiarly here Tom ? went on Ned . 
That creates a vacuum , and other air rushes in to fill the vacant space . 
That's all wind is , anyhow , air rushing in to fill a vacuum , or low pressure zone , for you remember that nature abhors a vacuum . 
At last it was completed and then , weights being taken aboard to steady it , all was ready for the test . 
The test came off early one morning , Tom , Ned and Mr. Damon being the only ones aboard . 
Bags of sand represented the others . 
The glider was wheeled to the edge of the wind zone and they took their places in the car . 
for the gale , that had never ceased blowing for an instant since they found its zone , was very strong . 
But the glider remained motionless in it , for the wing planes , the rudders , and equalizing weights had been adjusted to make the strain of the wind neutral . 
All ready ? asked Tom , when his chum and his friend were in the enclosed car of the glider . 
As ready as I ever shall be , answered Ned . 
Bless my suspenders ! Let her go , Tom , and have it over with ! cried the odd man . 
The young inventor pulled a lever , and almost instantly the glider darted forward . 
A moment later it soared aloft , and the three Russians cheered . 
But their voices were lost in the roar of the hurricane , as Tom sent his craft higher and higher . 
It worked perfectly , and he could direct it almost anywhere . 
The wind acted as the motive power , the bending and warping wings , and the rudders and weights controlling its force . 
I'm going higher , and see if I can remain stationary ! yelled Tom in Ned's ear . 
Mr. Damon was seated on a bench , clinging to the sides of it as if he feared he would fall off . 
Higher and higher went the Vulture , ever higher , until , all at once , Tom pulled on another lever and she was still . 
There she hung in the air , the wind rushing through her planes , but the glider herself as still and quiet as though she rested on the ground in a calm . 
Success ! Now we can lie stationary in any spot , and spy out the land through our telescope . 
Tom gave his glider other and more severe tests , and she answered every one . 
Then he came to earth . 
Now we'll begin the search , he said , and preparations were made to that end . 
The Russians , now that they had seen how well the craft worked , were not afraid to trust themselves in her . 
As I have explained , there was an enclosed car , capable of holding six . 
In this were stores , supplies and food sufficient for several days . 
Tom's plan was to leave the airship anchored on the edge of the wind zone , as a sort of base of supplies or headquarters . 
From there he intended to go off from time to time in the wind swept area to look for the lost mine . 
There were weary days that followed . 
Hour after hour was spent in the air in the glider , the whole party being aboard . 
Don't you see anything like the place where you found the mine ? he asked of the exile brothers . 
They could only shake their heads . 
Indeed their task was not easy , for to recognize the place again was difficult . 
More than a week passed . 
They ate and slept on board , and seldom descended unless at or near the place where they had left the Falcon . 
Once they completely crossed the zone of wind , and came to a calm place on the other side . 
It was as wild and desolate as the other edge . 
Nearly two weeks had passed , and Tom was almost ready to give up and go back home . 
But the platinum treasure has me beat , I guess , said Tom grimly . 
We can't seem to get a trace of it . 
Night was coming on , and he had half determined to head back for the airship . 
Ivan Petrofsky was peering anxiously down at the desolate land , over which they were gliding . 
He and his brother took turns at this . 
They were not far above the earth , but landmarks , such as had to be depended on to locate the mine , could not readily be observed without the glass . 
However , as chance willed it , he was instrumental in bringing the quest to a close , and most unexpectedly . 
Peter Petrofsky was relieving his brother at the telescope , when the odd man , who had not taken his eyes from the field glasses , suddenly uttered an exclamation . 
Bless my tooth brush ! he cried . 
That's a most desolate place down there . 
A lot of trees blown down around a lake that looks as black as ink . 
What's that ! cried Ivan Petrofsky . 
A lake as black as ink ? Where ? We just passed it ! replied Mr. Damon . 
Then put back there , as soon as you can , Tom ! called the Russian . 
I want to look at that place . 
With a long , graceful sweep the young inventor sent the glider back over the course . 
Ivan Petrofsky glued his eyes to the telescope . 
There was a sheet of white snow near them , and you broke through into water . 
That must have been a lake , though it was lightly frozen over then . 
I believe this is the lost mine . 
Go down , Tom ! Go down ! I certainly will ! cried the youth , and pulling on the descending lever he shunted the glider to earth . 
CHAPTER XXIV THE LEAKING TANKS Like a bird descending from some dizzy height , the Vulture landed close to the pool of black water . 
It was a small lake and the darkness must have been caused by its depth , for later when they took some out in a glass it was as clear as a crystal . 
Then , too , there might have been black rocks on the bottom . 
Can it he possible that we are here at last ? cried Tom , above the noise of the gale , for the wind was blowing at a terrific rate . 
But our friends knew better now how to adjust themselves to it , and the lake was down in a valley , the sides of which cut off the power of the gale . 
As for the glider it was only necessary to equalize the balance and it would remain stationary in any wind . 
This is the place ! This is the place ! cried Ivan Petrofsky . 
Don't you remember , Peter ? Indeed I do ! I have good cause to ! This is where we found the platinum ! Bless my soul ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Where is it , in the lake ? The mine itself is just beyond that barrier of broken and twisted trees , replied the elder Russian brother . 
It is an irregular opening in the ground , as though once , centuries ago , an ancient people tried to get out the precious metal . 
We will go to it at once . 
But it is getting late , objected Ned . 
No matter , said Tom . 
If we find any platinum we'll stay here all night , and longer if necessary to get a good supply . 
This is better than the city of gold , for we're in the open . 
I should say we were , observed Mr. Damon , as he bent to the blast , which was strong , sheltered even as they were . 
Will it be safe to remain all night ? asked Mr. Borious , with a glance about the desolate country . 
We have plenty of food , replied Tom , and a good place to stay , in the car of the glider . 
I don't believe we'll be attacked . 
No , not here , said the elder Petrofsky . 
But we still have to go back across Siberia to escape . 
We'll do it ! cried Tom . 
Now for the platinum treasure ! They went forward , and it was no easy work . 
For the wind still New with tremendous force though nothing like what it did higher up . 
And the ground was uneven . 
They had to cling to each other and it was very evident that no airship , not even the powerful Falcon , could have reached the place . 
Only an air glider would answer . 
It took them half an hour to get to the opening of the ancient mine , and by that time it was nearly dark . 
But Tom had thought to bring electric torches , such as he had used in the underground city of gold , and they dispelled the gloom of the small cavern . 
Will you go in ? asked Ivan Petrofsky , when they had come to the place . 
Go in ? Of course I'll go in ! cried our hero , stepping forward . 
For some time they went on , and saw no traces of the precious metal . 
Then Ned uttered a cry , as he saw some dull , grayish particles imbedded in the earth walls of the shaft . 
Tom was at his chum's side in a moment That's platinum ! cried the young inventor . 
And of the very highest grade ! But the lumps are very small . 
There are larger ones beyond , said the younger Russian brother . 
Forward they pressed , and a moment later . 
coming around a turn in the cavern where some earth had fallen away , evidently recently , Tom could not repress a cry of joy . 
For there , in plain sight , were many large lumps of the valuable metal , in as pure a state as it is ever found . 
For it is always mixed with other metals or chemicals . 
Look at that ! cried Tom . 
Look at that ! Lumps as large as an egg ! and he dug some out with a small pick he bad brought along , and stuffed them into his pocket . 
Bless my check book ! cried Mr. Damon , and that stuff is as valuable as gold ! More so ! cried Tom enthusiastically . 
Oh , here's a whopping big one ! cried Ned . 
I'll bet it weighs ten pounds . 
More than that ! cried Tom , as he ran over and began digging it out , and they found later that it did . 
Platinum is usually found in small granules , but there are records of chunks being found weighing twenty pounds while others , the size of pigeons' eggs , are not uncommon . 
Say , this is great ! yelled Ned , discovering another large piece , and digging it out . 
I am glad we could lead you to it , said the elder Russian brother . 
It is a small return for what you did for us ! Nonsense ! cried Tom . 
These must be a king's ransom here . 
Everybody dig it out ! Get all you can . 
They were at the work soon after breakfast , the night in the air glider having passed without incident . 
And it's all good stuff ! cried Tom eagerly . 
Not like that low grade gold of the underground city . 
I can make my own terms when I sell this . 
But it was to be equally divided . 
Tom insisted on this , as his Russian friends had been instrumental in finding it . 
Toward the end of the excavation large pieces were scarce , and it was evident that the mine was what is called a lode . 
Well , shall we go back now ? asked Tom one day , after the finish of their mining operations . 
The work was comparatively simple , as the platinum lumps had merely to be dug out of the sides of the cave . 
But the loneliness and dreariness of the place was telling on them all . 
Can't we carry any more ? asked Ned . 
We could , but it might not be safe . 
I don't want to take on too much weight , as my glider isn't as stable as the airship . 
But we have plenty of the metal . 
Indeed we have , agreed Ivan Petrofsky . 
Much of mine and my brother's will go toward helping relieve the sufferings of the Siberian exiles , he added . 
And mine , too , said Alexis Borious . 
They started back early the next morning in a more terrific gale than in any the glider had yet flown . 
But she proved herself a stanch craft , and soon they were at the place where they had left the airship . 
Four days were spent in taking apart the glider and packing it on board the Falcon . 
Then , with the platinum safely stored away Tom , with a last look at the desolate land that had been so kind to them , sent his craft on her homeward way . 
It was when they were near the city of Pirtchina , on the Obi river , that what might have proved a disastrous accident occurred . 
They were flying along high , and at great speed , for Tom wanted to make all the distance he could , to get out of Siberia the more quickly . 
They had had a fair passage so far , and were congratulating themselves that they would soon be in civilization again . 
No water is dripping from there . 
Come and look , advised Mr. Damon . 
The young inventor raced back with him . 
He saw a thin , white stream trickling down from the lower part of the craft . 
Tom sniffed the air suspiciously . 
Gasolene ! It's gasolene ! he cried . 
CHAPTER XXV HOMEWARD BOUND CONCLUSION All right ! yelled Ned , as soon as he heard Tom's cry . 
I've got her under control . 
Is it dangerous ? Are we in danger ? asked Peter Petrofsky of his brother , in Russian . 
I guess there's no danger , where Tom Swift's concerned , was the answer . 
I have not volplaned much , but it will be all right I think . 
Almost instantly the Falcon was surrounded by a curious throng . 
You had better keep inside , said Ivan Petrofsky to his brother and Mr. Borious . 
Descriptions of you are probably out broadcast by now , but I am still sufficiently disguised , I think . 
But what is to be done ? demanded the younger Russian brother . 
If the gasolene is gone , how can we leave here ? Trust Tom Swift for that , was the reply . 
Keep out of sight now , there is a large crowd outside . 
Tom came from the tank room . 
There was a despondent look on his face . 
It's all gone every drop , he said . 
That's what made the motor stop . 
What's gone ? asked Mr. Damon . 
We sprung a leak in the main tank , somehow , and it all flowed out while we were flying along . 
Haven't you any more ? Not a bit . 
I was drawing on the reserve tank , hoping to get to civilization before I needed more . 
But its too late now . 
We will have to Bless my snow shoes ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Don't say we'll have to stay here in Siberia ! Don't say that . 
My wife No , we won't have to stay here if we can get a supply of kerosene , interrupted Tom . 
The motor will burn that . 
The only trouble is that we may be detained . 
The authorities probably know us by this time , and are on the watch . 
Then get it before they know we are here , advised Ned . 
I'll try , said Tom , and he at once conferred with the elder Petrofsky . 
Until then there was nothing to do but wait . 
Meanwhile the crowd of curiosity seekers grew . 
They thronged around the airship , some of them meddling with various devices , until Tom had to order them away with gestures . 
The leak in the tank had proved to be a small one , and had quickly been soldered . 
It had been open a long time , which accounted for the large amount of gasolene escaping . 
What don't you like , Mr. Petrofsky ? So many men surrounding us . 
I believe some of them are officers dressed in civilians' clothes , and a Russian officer never does that unless he has some object . 
And you think the object is ? To capture us . 
Russia is overrun with officialdom . 
And a little later Ivan Petrofsky's suspicion proved true . 
We know you are going to leave us , said the Russian with a smile , for you have sent for kerosene . 
If your governor comes soon we'll wait , replied Tom . 
But we are in a hurry . 
I wish that kerosene fellow would get a move on , he murmured . 
Oh , he will doubtless be here soon , said the officer . 
At last he came , and Tom breathed easier . 
But the crowd was bigger , and some of the men , though poorly dressed , seemed to be persons in authority . 
Tom had no doubt but what there was a plot afoot to detain him , and arrest the exiles , and that there were disguised soldiers in the throng . 
But they could not act without the governor's orders , and he was probably on his way with all haste . 
Lively now , get that kerosene in the tanks ! cried Tom to the man , motioning in lieu of using Russian . 
The youth was not going to meet the governor if he could help it . 
They got in each others' way , dropped some cans , spilled others , and in general made such poor work at it that Tom saw there was something in the wind . 
Ned ! he exclaimed , they're doing all they can to detain us . 
We've got to put that oil in ourselves . 
Just as we did the gasolene in France . 
It's the same sort of a delay game . 
Right , Tom ! I'm with you . 
And I'll warn the crowd back , by telling them we are likely to blow up any minute ! added Ivan Petrofsky , which warning he shouted in Russian a moment later . 
Backward leaped the throng , as though a bomb bad been thrown into their midst , even the supposed officers joining in the retreat . 
The oil wagon was now easy of access , and Tom and Ned , with Mr. Damon to aid them , hastened toward it . 
Then the work of filling the tanks went on in something like good old , United States fashion . 
Hold ! Hold ! If you please ! he cried . 
He wants to see you . 
Too late ! answered Tom . 
Give him our best regards and ask him to some to the United States if he wants to see us . 
Sorry we haven't cards handy . 
Ned , take the pilot house , and shoot her up sharp when you get the signal . 
I'm going to run the motor . 
I don't know just how she'll behave on the kerosene . 
You must remain ! angrily cried the officer . 
The United States doesn't take 'must' from anybody , from the Czar down ! cried Tom as he disappeared into the motor room . 
Stop ! Stop ! cried the official . 
Up and up she went , faster and faster , the motors working well on the kerosene . 
The governor and his soldiers were directly below her now . 
Stop ! Stop ! You must stop . 
The Imperial governor orders it ! yelled the officer , evidently his Excellency's aide de camp . 
So surprised were the soldiers that they did not fire a shot , but had they done so it is doubtful if much damage could have been done . 
And now for home ! cried Tom , and homeward hound the Falcon was after a perilous trip through two storms . 
But she weathered them well . 
The secret police learned that the exiles were aboard , but they could do nothing , as the offenses were political ones , and so Tom kept his friends safe . 
There is little more to tell . 
The platinum proved to be even more valuable than Tom had expected . 
Mr. Damon also made a good donation to the cause , as did Tom and Ned . 
Mr. Petrofsky and his brother , with the other exile , joined friends in New York , and promised to come and see Tom when they could . 
Vacation ? I have no time for vacations ! said the young inventor . 
I'm soon going to work on my silent airship , and on some other things I have in mind . 
Oh , you greedy boy ! exclaimed Mary with a laugh . 
And what adventures Tom had next will be found in the next book of this series , which will be entitled , Tom Swift in Captivity Or , a Daring Escape by Airship . 
Tom had several offers to give exhibitions in his air glider , from aviation committees at various meets , but he declined . 
I haven't time , he declared . 
You ought to rest , his chum Ned advised him . 
'Bless my alarm clock ! as Mr. Damon would say , exclaimed Tom . 
The best rest is new work , and then he began sketching his ideas for a silent motor craft , during which we will take leave of him for a while . 
