May it haunt their houses pleasantly , and no one wish to lay it . 
Their faithful Friend and Servant , C. D. December , . 
Stave Marley's Ghost Marley was dead to begin with . 
There is no doubt whatever about that . 
The register of his burial was signed by the clergyman , the clerk , the undertaker , and the chief mourner . 
And Scrooge's name was good upon Change , for anything he chose to put his hand to . 
Old Marley was as dead as a door nail . 
Mind ! I don't mean to say that I know , of my own knowledge , what there is particularly dead about a door nail . 
I might have been inclined , myself , to regard a coffin nail as the deadest piece of ironmongery in the trade . 
But the wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile and my unhallowed hands shall not disturb it , or the Country's done for . 
You will therefore permit me to repeat , emphatically , that Marley was as dead as a door nail . 
Scrooge knew he was dead ? Of course he did . 
How could it be otherwise ? Scrooge and he were partners for I don't know how many years . 
Scrooge was his sole executor , his sole administrator , his sole assign , his sole residuary legatee , his sole friend , and sole mourner . 
The mention of Marley's funeral brings me back to the point I started from . 
There is no doubt that Marley was dead . 
This must be distinctly understood , or nothing wonderful can come of the story I am going to relate . 
Scrooge never painted out Old Marley's name . 
There it stood , years afterwards , above the warehouse door Scrooge and Marley . 
The firm was known as Scrooge and Marley . 
Sometimes people new to the business called Scrooge Scrooge , and sometimes Marley , but he answered to both names . 
It was all the same to him . 
A frosty rime was on his head , and on his eyebrows , and his wiry chin . 
He carried his own low temperature always about with him he iced his office in the dogdays and didn't thaw it one degree at Christmas . 
External heat and cold had little influence on Scrooge . 
No warmth could warm , no wintry weather chill him . 
No wind that blew was bitterer than he , no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose , no pelting rain less open to entreaty . 
Foul weather didn't know where to have him . 
The heaviest rain , and snow , and hail , and sleet , could boast of the advantage over him in only one respect . 
They often came down' handsomely , and Scrooge never did . 
To edge his way along the crowded paths of life , warning all human sympathy to keep its distance , was what the knowing ones call nuts' to Scrooge . 
Once upon a time of all the good days in the year , on Christmas Eve old Scrooge sat busy in his counting house . 
The fog came pouring in at every chink and keyhole , and was so dense without , that although the court was of the narrowest , the houses opposite were mere phantoms . 
To see the dingy cloud come drooping down , obscuring everything , one might have thought that Nature lived hard by , and was brewing on a large scale . 
Scrooge had a very small fire , but the clerk's fire was so very much smaller that it looked like one coal . 
Wherefore the clerk put on his white comforter , and tried to warm himself at the candle in which effort , not being a man of a strong imagination , he failed . 
A merry Christmas , uncle ! God save you ! cried a cheerful voice . 
It was the voice of Scrooge's nephew , who came upon him so quickly that this was the first intimation he had of his approach . 
Christmas a humbug , uncle ! said Scrooge's nephew . 
You don't mean that , I am sure ? I do , said Scrooge . 
Merry Christmas ! What right have you to be merry ? What reason have you to be merry ? You're poor enough . 
Come , then , returned the nephew gaily . 
What right have you to be dismal ? What reason have you to be morose ? You're rich enough . 
Scrooge having no better answer ready on the spur of the moment , said Bah ! again and followed it up with Humbug . 
Don't be cross , uncle ! said the nephew . 
He should ! Uncle ! pleaded the nephew . 
Nephew ! returned the uncle sternly , keep Christmas in your own way , and let me keep it in mine . 
Keep it ! repeated Scrooge's nephew . 
But you don't keep it . 
Let me leave it alone , then , said Scrooge . 
Becoming immediately sensible of the impropriety , he poked the fire , and extinguished the last frail spark for ever . 
I wonder you don't go into Parliament . 
Don't be angry , uncle . 
Come ! Dine with us tomorrow . 
Scrooge said that he would see him yes , indeed he did . 
He went the whole length of the expression , and said that he would see him in that extremity first . 
But why ? cried Scrooge's nephew . 
Why ? Why did you get married ? said Scrooge . 
Because I fell in love . 
Because you fell in love ! growled Scrooge , as if that were the only one thing in the world more ridiculous than a merry Christmas . 
Good afternoon ! Nay , uncle , but you never came to see me before that happened . 
Why give it as a reason for not coming now ? Good afternoon , said Scrooge . 
I want nothing from you I ask nothing of you why cannot we be friends ? Good afternoon , said Scrooge . 
I am sorry , with all my heart , to find you so resolute . 
We have never had any quarrel , to which I have been a party . 
But I have made the trial in homage to Christmas , and I'll keep my Christmas humour to the last . 
So A Merry Christmas , uncle ! Good afternoon , said Scrooge . 
And A Happy New Year ! Good afternoon , said Scrooge . 
His nephew left the room without an angry word , notwithstanding . 
He stopped at the outer door to bestow the greetings of the season on the clerk , who cold as he was , was warmer than Scrooge for he returned them cordially . 
There's another fellow , muttered Scrooge who overheard him my clerk , with fifteen shillings a week , and a wife and family , talking about a merry Christmas . 
This lunatic , in letting Scrooge's nephew out , had let two other people in . 
They were portly gentlemen , pleasant to behold , and now stood , with their hats off , in Scrooge's office . 
They had books and papers in their hands , and bowed to him . 
Scrooge and Marley's , I believe , said one of the gentlemen , referring to his list . 
Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr. Scrooge , or Mr. Marley ? Mr. Marley has been dead these seven years , Scrooge replied . 
He died seven years ago , this very night . 
We have no doubt his liberality is well represented by his surviving partner , said the gentleman , presenting his credentials . 
It certainly was for they had been two kindred spirits . 
At the ominous word liberality , Scrooge frowned , and shook his head , and handed the credentials back . 
Many thousands are in want of common necessaries hundreds of thousands are in want of common comforts , sir . 
Are there no prisons ? asked Scrooge . 
Plenty of prisons , said the gentleman , laying down the pen again . 
And the Union workhouses ? demanded Scrooge . 
Are they still in operation ? They are . 
Still , returned the gentleman , I wish I could say they were not . 
The Treadmill and the Poor Law are in full vigour , then ? said Scrooge . 
Both very busy , sir . 
Oh ! I was afraid , from what you said at first , that something had occurred to stop them in their useful course , said Scrooge . 
I'm very glad to hear it . 
We choose this time , because it is a time , of all others , when Want is keenly felt , and Abundance rejoices . 
What shall I put you down for ? Nothing ! Scrooge replied . 
You wish to be anonymous ? I wish to be left alone , said Scrooge . 
Since you ask me what I wish , gentlemen , that is my answer . 
I don't make merry myself at Christmas and I can't afford to make idle people merry . 
I help to support the establishments I have mentioned they cost enough and those who are badly off must go there . 
Many can't go there and many would rather die . 
If they would rather die , said Scrooge , they had better do it , and decrease the surplus population . 
Besides excuse me I don't know that . 
But you might know it , observed the gentleman . 
It's not my business , Scrooge returned . 
It's enough for a man to understand his own business , and not to interfere with other people's . 
Good afternoon , gentlemen ! Seeing clearly that it would be useless to pursue their point , the gentlemen withdrew . 
Scrooge returned his labours with an improved opinion of himself , and in a more facetious temper than was usual with him . 
Meanwhile the fog and darkness thickened so , that people ran about with flaring links , proffering their services to go before horses in carriages , and conduct them on their way . 
The water plug being left in solitude , its overflowing sullenly congealed , and turned to misanthropic ice . 
The brightness of the shops where holly sprigs and berries crackled in the lamp heat of the windows , made pale faces ruddy as they passed . 
Poulterers' and grocers' trades became a splendid joke a glorious pageant , with which it was next to impossible to believe that such dull principles as bargain and sale had anything to do . 
Foggier yet , and colder ! Piercing , searching , biting cold . 
At length the hour of shutting up the counting house arrived . 
You'll want all day to morrow , I suppose ? said Scrooge . 
If quite convenient , sir . 
It's not convenient , said Scrooge , and it's not fair . 
If I was to stop half a crown for it , you'd think yourself ill used , I'll be bound ? The clerk smiled faintly . 
And yet , said Scrooge , you don't think me ill used , when I pay a day's wages for no work . 
The clerk observed that it was only once a year . 
A poor excuse for picking a man's pocket every twenty fifth of December ! said Scrooge , buttoning his great coat to the chin . 
But I suppose you must have the whole day . 
Be here all the earlier next morning . 
The clerk promised that he would and Scrooge walked out with a growl . 
Scrooge took his melancholy dinner in his usual melancholy tavern and having read all the newspapers , and beguiled the rest of the evening with his banker's book , went home to bed . 
He lived in chambers which had once belonged to his deceased partner . 
It was old enough now , and dreary enough , for nobody lived in it but Scrooge , the other rooms being all let out as offices . 
The yard was so dark that even Scrooge , who knew its every stone , was fain to grope with his hands . 
The fog and frost so hung about the black old gateway of the house , that it seemed as if the Genius of the Weather sat in mournful meditation on the threshold . 
Now , it is a fact , that there was nothing at all particular about the knocker on the door , except that it was very large . 
Let it also be borne in mind that Scrooge had not bestowed one thought on Marley , since his last mention of his seven years' dead partner that afternoon . 
It was not in impenetrable shadow as the other objects in the yard were , but had a dismal light about it , like a bad lobster in a dark cellar . 
It was not angry or ferocious , but looked at Scrooge as Marley used to look with ghostly spectacles turned up on its ghostly forehead . 
The hair was curiously stirred , as if by breath or hot air and , though the eyes were wide open , they were perfectly motionless . 
As Scrooge looked fixedly at this phenomenon , it was a knocker again . 
To say that he was not startled , or that his blood was not conscious of a terrible sensation to which it had been a stranger from infancy , would be untrue . 
But he put his hand upon the key he had relinquished , turned it sturdily , walked in , and lighted his candle . 
The sound resounded through the house like thunder . 
Every room above , and every cask in the wine merchant's cellars below , appeared to have a separate peal of echoes of its own . 
Scrooge was not a man to be frightened by echoes . 
He fastened the door , and walked across the hall , and up the stairs slowly too trimming his candle as he went . 
There was plenty of width for that , and room to spare which is perhaps the reason why Scrooge thought he saw a locomotive hearse going on before him in the gloom . 
Half a dozen gas lamps out of the street wouldn't have lighted the entry too well , so you may suppose that it was pretty dark with Scrooge's dip . 
Up Scrooge went , not caring a button for that . 
Darkness is cheap , and Scrooge liked it . 
But before he shut his heavy door , he walked through his rooms to see that all was right . 
He had just enough recollection of the face to desire to do that . 
Sitting room , bedroom , lumber room . 
All as they should be . 
Nobody under the bed nobody in the closet nobody in his dressing gown , which was hanging up in a suspicious attitude against the wall . 
Old fire guards , old shoes , two fish baskets , washing stand on three legs , and a poker . 
Quite satisfied , he closed his door , and locked himself in double locked himself in , which was not his custom . 
Thus secured against surprise , he took off his cravat put on his dressing gown and slippers , and his nightcap and sat down before the fire to take his gruel . 
It was a very low fire indeed nothing on such a bitter night . 
He was obliged to sit close to it , and brood over it , before he could extract the least sensation of warmth from such a handful of fuel . 
The fireplace was an old one , built by some Dutch merchant long ago , and paved all round with quaint Dutch tiles , designed to illustrate the Scriptures . 
Humbug ! said Scrooge and walked across the room . 
After several turns , he sat down again . 
It was with great astonishment , and with a strange , inexplicable dread , that as he looked , he saw this bell begin to swing . 
It swung so softly in the outset that it scarcely made a sound but soon it rang out loudly , and so did every bell in the house . 
This might have lasted half a minute , or a minute , but it seemed an hour . 
The bells ceased as they had begun , together . 
They were succeeded by a clanking noise , deep down below as if some person were dragging a heavy chain over the casks in the wine merchant's cellar . 
Scrooge then remembered to have heard that ghosts in haunted houses were described as dragging chains . 
It's humbug still ! said Scrooge . 
His colour changed though , when , without a pause , it came on through the heavy door , and passed into the room before his eyes . 
Upon its coming in , the dying flame leaped up , as though it cried I know him Marley's Ghost ! and fell again . 
The same face the very same . 
Marley in his pigtail , usual waistcoat , tights and boots the tassels on the latter bristling , like his pigtail , and his coat skirts , and the hair upon his head . 
The chain he drew was clasped about his middle . 
of cash boxes , keys , padlocks , ledgers , deeds , and heavy purses wrought in steel . 
His body was transparent so that Scrooge , observing him , and looking through his waistcoat , could see the two buttons on his coat behind . 
Scrooge had often heard it said that Marley had no bowels , but he had never believed it until now . 
No , nor did he believe it even now . 
How now ! said Scrooge , caustic and cold as ever . 
What do you want with me ? Much ! Marley's voice , no doubt about it . 
Who are you ? Ask me who I was . 
Who were you then ? said Scrooge , raising his voice . 
You're particular , for a shade . 
He was going to say to a shade , but substituted this , as more appropriate . 
In life I was your partner , Jacob Marley . 
Can you can you sit down ? asked Scrooge , looking doubtfully at him . 
But the ghost sat down on the opposite side of the fireplace , as if he were quite used to it . 
You don't believe in me , observed the Ghost . 
What evidence would you have of my reality beyond that of your senses ? I don't know , said Scrooge . 
Why do you doubt your senses ? Because , said Scrooge , a little thing affects them . 
A slight disorder of the stomach makes them cheats . 
You may be an undigested bit of beef , a blot of mustard , a crumb of cheese , a fragment of an underdone potato . 
To sit , staring at those fixed glazed eyes , in silence for a moment , would play , Scrooge felt , the very deuce with him . 
There was something very awful , too , in the spectre's being provided with an infernal atmosphere of its own . 
I do , replied the Ghost . 
You are not looking at it , said Scrooge . 
But I see it , said the Ghost , notwithstanding . 
Well ! returned Scrooge , I have but to swallow this , and be for the rest of my days persecuted by a legion of goblins , all of my own creation . 
Dreadful apparition , why do you trouble me ? Man of the worldly mind ! replied the Ghost , do you believe in me or not ? I do , said Scrooge . 
You are fettered , said Scrooge , trembling . 
Tell me why ? I wear the chain I forged in life , replied the Ghost . 
I made it link by link , and yard by yard I girded it on of my own free will , and of my own free will I wore it . 
Is its pattern strange to you ? Scrooge trembled more and more . 
You have laboured on it , since . 
Jacob , he said , imploringly . 
Old Jacob Marley , tell me more . 
Speak comfort to me , Jacob ! I have none to give , the Ghost replied . 
It comes from other regions , Ebenezer Scrooge , and is conveyed by other ministers , to other kinds of men . 
Nor can I tell you what I would . 
A very little more , is all permitted to me . 
I cannot rest , I cannot stay , I cannot linger anywhere . 
Pondering on what the Ghost had said , he did so now , but without lifting up his eyes , or getting off his knees . 
You must have been very slow about it , Jacob , Scrooge observed , in a business like manner , though with humility and deference . 
Slow ! the Ghost repeated . 
Seven years dead , mused Scrooge . 
And travelling all the time ! The whole time , said the Ghost . 
No rest , no peace . 
You travel fast ? said Scrooge . 
On the wings of the wind , replied the Ghost . 
You might have got over a great quantity of ground in seven years , said Scrooge . 
Not to know that any Christian spirit working kindly in its little sphere , whatever it may be , will find its mortal life too short for its vast means of usefulness . 
Business ! cried the Ghost , wringing its hands again . 
The common welfare was my business charity , mercy , forbearance , and benevolence , were , all , my business . 
At this time of the rolling year , the spectre said I suffer most . 
Hear me ! cried the Ghost . 
My time is nearly gone . 
I will , said Scrooge . 
I have sat invisible beside you many and many a day . 
It was not an agreeable idea . 
Scrooge shivered , and wiped the perspiration from his brow . 
That is no light part of my penance , pursued the Ghost . 
I am here to night to warn you , that you have yet a chance and hope of escaping my fate . 
A chance and hope of my procuring , Ebenezer . 
You were always a good friend to me , said Scrooge . 
Thank ee ! You will be haunted , resumed the Ghost , by Three Spirits . 
Scrooge's countenance fell almost as low as the Ghost's had done . 
Is that the chance and hope you mentioned , Jacob ? he demanded , in a faltering voice . 
I I think I'd rather not , said Scrooge . 
Without their visits , said the Ghost , you cannot hope to shun the path I tread . 
Expect the first tomorrow , when the bell tolls One . 
Couldn't I take em all at once , and have it over , Jacob ? hinted Scrooge . 
Expect the second on the next night at the same hour . 
The third upon the next night when the last stroke of Twelve has ceased to vibrate . 
Scrooge knew this , by the smart sound its teeth made , when the jaws were brought together by the bandage . 
He ventured to raise his eyes again , and found his supernatural visitor confronting him in an erect attitude , with its chain wound over and about its arm . 
The apparition walked backward from him and at every step it took , the window raised itself a little , so that when the spectre reached it , it was wide open . 
It beckoned Scrooge to approach , which he did . 
When they were within two paces of each other , Marley's Ghost held up its hand , warning him to come no nearer . 
The spectre , after listening for a moment , joined in the mournful dirge and floated out upon the bleak , dark night . 
Scrooge followed to the window desperate in his curiosity . 
The air was filled with phantoms , wandering hither and thither in restless haste , and moaning as they went . 
were linked together none were free . 
Many had been personally known to Scrooge in their lives . 
The misery with them all was , clearly , that they sought to interfere , for good , in human matters , and had lost the power for ever . 
Whether these creatures faded into mist , or mist enshrouded them , he could not tell . 
But they and their spirit voices faded together and the night became as it had been when he walked home . 
Scrooge closed the window , and examined the door by which the Ghost had entered . 
It was double locked , as he had locked it with his own hands , and the bolts were undisturbed . 
He tried to say Humbug ! but stopped at the first syllable . 
He was endeavouring to pierce the darkness with his ferret eyes , when the chimes of a neighbouring church struck the four quarters . 
So he listened for the hour . 
To his great astonishment the heavy bell went on from six to seven , and from seven to eight , and regularly up to twelve then stopped . 
It was past two when he went to bed . 
An icicle must have got into the works . 
He touched the spring of his repeater , to correct this most preposterous clock . 
Its rapid little pulse beat twelve and stopped . 
Why , it isn't possible , said Scrooge , that I can have slept through a whole day and far into another night . 
It isn't possible that anything has happened to the sun , and this is twelve at noon . 
The idea being an alarming one , he scrambled out of bed , and groped his way to the window . 
He was obliged to rub the frost off with the sleeve of his dressing gown before he could see anything and could see very little then . 
Scrooge went to bed again , and thought , and thought , and thought it over and over , and could make nothing of it . 
The more he thought , the more perplexed he was and , the more he endeavoured not to think , the more he thought . 
Marley's Ghost bothered him exceedingly . 
The quarter was so long , that he was more than once convinced he must have sunk into a doze unconsciously , and missed the clock . 
At length it broke upon his listening ear . 
Ding , dong ! A quarter past , said Scrooge , counting . 
Ding , dong ! Half past , said Scrooge . 
Ding , dong ! A quarter to it , said Scrooge . 
Light flashed up in the room upon the instant , and the curtains of his bed were drawn . 
The curtains of his bed were drawn aside , I tell you , by a hand . 
Not the curtains at his feet , nor the curtains at his back , but those to which his face was addressed . 
The arms were very long and muscular the hands the same , as if its hold were of uncommon strength . 
Its legs and feet , most delicately formed , were , like those upper members , bare . 
It wore a tunic of the purest white , and round its waist was bound a lustrous belt , the sheen of which was beautiful . 
It held a branch of fresh green holly in its hand and , in singular contradiction of that wintry emblem , had its dress trimmed with summer flowers . 
Even this , though , when Scrooge looked at it with increasing steadiness , was not its strangest quality . 
And in the very wonder of this , it would be itself again distinct and clear as ever . 
Are you the Spirit , sir , whose coming was foretold to me . 
The voice was soft and gentle . 
Singularly low , as if instead of being so close beside him , it were at a distance . 
Who , and what are you . 
I am the Ghost of Christmas Past . 
inquired Scrooge observant of its dwarfish stature . 
exclaimed the Ghost , would you so soon put out , with worldly hands , the light I give . 
Is it not enough that you are one of those whose passions made this cap , and force me through whole trains of years to wear it low upon my brow . 
Scrooge reverently disclaimed all intention to offend or any knowledge of having wilfully bonneted the Spirit at any period of his life . 
He then made bold to inquire what business brought him there . 
Scrooge expressed himself much obliged , but could not help thinking that a night of unbroken rest would have been more conducive to that end . 
The Spirit must have heard him thinking , for it said immediately Your reclamation , then . 
It put out its strong hand as it spoke , and clasped him gently by the arm . 
The grasp , though gentle as a woman's hand , was not to be resisted . 
He rose but finding that the Spirit made towards the window , clasped his robe in supplication . 
I am mortal , Scrooge remonstrated , and liable to fall . 
Bear but a touch of my hand there , said the Spirit , laying it upon his heart , and you shall be upheld in more than this . 
As the words were spoken , they passed through the wall , and stood upon an open country road , with fields on either hand . 
The city had entirely vanished . 
Not a vestige of it was to be seen . 
The darkness and the mist had vanished with it , for it was a clear , cold , winter day , with snow upon the ground . 
Good Heaven ! said Scrooge , clasping his hands together , as he looked about him . 
I was bred in this place . 
I was a boy here . 
The Spirit gazed upon him mildly . 
Its gentle touch , though it had been light and instantaneous , appeared still present to the old man's sense of feeling . 
He was conscious of a thousand odours floating in the air , each one connected with a thousand thoughts , and hopes , and joys , and cares long , long , forgotten . 
Your lip is trembling , said the Ghost . 
And what is that upon your cheek . 
Scrooge muttered , with an unusual catching in his voice , that it was a pimple and begged the Ghost to lead him where he would . 
cried Scrooge with fervour I could walk it blindfold . 
Strange to have forgotten it for so many years . 
Some shaggy ponies now were seen trotting towards them with boys upon their backs , who called to other boys in country gigs and carts , driven by farmers . 
All these boys were in great spirits , and shouted to each other , until the broad fields were so full of merry music , that the crisp air laughed to hear it . 
These are but shadows of the things that have been , said the Ghost . 
They have no consciousness of us . 
The jocund travellers came on and as they came , Scrooge knew and named them every one . 
Why was he rejoiced beyond all bounds to see them . 
Why did his cold eye glisten , and his heart leap up as they went past . 
Why was he filled with gladness when he heard them give each other Merry Christmas , as they parted at cross roads and bye ways , for their several homes . 
What was merry Christmas to Scrooge . 
What good had it ever done to him . 
The school is not quite deserted , said the Ghost . 
A solitary child , neglected by his friends , is left there still . 
Scrooge said he knew it . 
Fowls clucked and strutted in the stables and the coach houses and sheds were over run with grass . 
They went , the Ghost and Scrooge , across the hall , to a door at the back of the house . 
It opened before them , and disclosed a long , bare , melancholy room , made barer still by lines of plain deal forms and desks . 
The Spirit touched him on the arm , and pointed to his younger self , intent upon his reading . 
Why , it's Ali Baba . 
It's dear old honest Ali Baba . 
Yes , yes , I know . 
One Christmas time , when yonder solitary child was left here all alone , he did come , for the first time , just like that . 
And Valentine , said Scrooge , and his wild brother , Orson there they go . 
And what's his name , who was put down in his drawers , asleep , at the Gate of Damascus don't you see him . 
And the Sultan's Groom turned upside down by the Genii there he is upon his head . 
What business had he to be married to the Princess . 
Green body and yellow tail , with a thing like a lettuce growing out of the top of his head there he is . 
Poor Robin Crusoe , he called him , when he came home again after sailing round the island . 
Poor Robin Crusoe , where have you been , Robin Crusoe . 
The man thought he was dreaming , but he wasn't . 
It was the Parrot , you know . 
There goes Friday , running for his life to the little creek . 
Then , with a rapidity of transition very foreign to his usual character , he said , in pity for his former self , Poor boy . 
I wish , Scrooge muttered , putting his hand in his pocket , and looking about him , after drying his eyes with his cuff but it's too late now . 
There was a boy singing a Christmas Carol at my door last night . 
I should like to have given him something that's all . 
The Ghost smiled thoughtfully , and waved its hand saying as it did so , Let us see another Christmas . 
Scrooge's former self grew larger at the words , and the room became a little darker and more dirty . 
He only knew that it was quite correct that everything had happened so that there he was , alone again , when all the other boys had gone home for the jolly holidays . 
He was not reading now , but walking up and down despairingly . 
Scrooge looked at the Ghost , and with a mournful shaking of his head , glanced anxiously towards the door . 
I have come to bring you home , dear brother . 
said the child , clapping her tiny hands , and bending down to laugh . 
To bring you home , home , home . 
said the child , brimful of glee . 
Home , for good and all . 
Home , for ever and ever . 
Father is so much kinder than he used to be , that home's like Heaven . 
And you're to be a man . 
You are quite a woman , little Fan . 
She clapped her hands and laughed , and tried to touch his head but being too little , laughed again , and stood on tiptoe to embrace him . 
Then she began to drag him , in her childish eagerness , towards the door and he , nothing loth to go , accompanied her . 
A terrible voice in the hall cried . 
Bring down Master Scrooge's box , there . 
and in the hall appeared the schoolmaster himself , who glared on Master Scrooge with a ferocious condescension , and threw him into a dreadful state of mind by shaking hands with him . 
Always a delicate creature , whom a breath might have withered , said the Ghost . 
But she had a large heart . 
So she had , cried Scrooge . 
I will not gainsay it , Spirit . 
She died a woman , said the Ghost , and had , as I think , children . 
One child , Scrooge returned . 
True , said the Ghost . 
Scrooge seemed uneasy in his mind and answered briefly , Yes . 
It was made plain enough , by the dressing of the shops , that here too it was Christmas time again but it was evening , and the streets were lighted up . 
The Ghost stopped at a certain warehouse door , and asked Scrooge if he knew it . 
Bless his heart it's Fezziwig alive again . 
Old Fezziwig laid down his pen , and looked up at the clock , which pointed to the hour of seven . 
Scrooge's former self , now grown a young man , came briskly in , accompanied by his fellow prentice . 
Dick Wilkins , to be sure . 
said Scrooge to the Ghost . 
He was very much attached to me , was Dick . 
Yo ho , my boys . 
No more work to night . 
Let's have the shutters up , cried old Fezziwig , with a sharp clap of his hands , before a man can say Jack Robinson . 
You wouldn't believe how those two fellows went at it . 
Hilli ho ! cried old Fezziwig , skipping down from the high desk , with wonderful agility . 
Clear away , my lads , and let's have lots of room here . 
There was nothing they wouldn't have cleared away , or couldn't have cleared away , with old Fezziwig looking on . 
It was done in a minute . 
In came a fiddler with a music book , and went up to the lofty desk , and made an orchestra of it , and tuned like fifty stomach aches . 
In came Mrs Fezziwig , one vast substantial smile . 
In came the three Miss Fezziwigs , beaming and lovable . 
In came the six young followers whose hearts they broke . 
In came all the young men and women employed in the business . 
In came the housemaid , with her cousin , the baker . 
In came the cook , with her brother's particular friend , the milkman . 
In they all came , one after another some shyly , some boldly , some gracefully , some awkwardly , some pushing , some pulling in they all came , anyhow and everyhow . 
When this result was brought about , old Fezziwig , clapping his hands to stop the dance , cried out , Well done . 
and the fiddler plunged his hot face into a pot of porter , especially provided for that purpose . 
struck up Sir Roger de Coverley . 
Then old Fezziwig stood out to dance with Mrs Fezziwig . 
But if they had been twice as many ah , four times old Fezziwig would have been a match for them , and so would Mrs Fezziwig . 
As to her , she was worthy to be his partner in every sense of the term . 
If that's not high praise , tell me higher , and I'll use it . 
A positive light appeared to issue from Fezziwig's calves . 
They shone in every part of the dance like moons . 
You couldn't have predicted , at any given time , what would have become of them next . 
When the clock struck eleven , this domestic ball broke up . 
During the whole of this time , Scrooge had acted like a man out of his wits . 
His heart and soul were in the scene , and with his former self . 
He corroborated everything , remembered everything , enjoyed everything , and underwent the strangest agitation . 
A small matter , said the Ghost , to make these silly folks so full of gratitude . 
The Spirit signed to him to listen to the two apprentices , who were pouring out their hearts in praise of Fezziwig and when he had done so , said , Why . 
He has spent but a few pounds of your mortal money three or four perhaps . 
Is that so much that he deserves this praise . 
It isn't that , said Scrooge , heated by the remark , and speaking unconsciously like his former , not his latter , self . 
It isn't that , Spirit . 
He has the power to render us happy or unhappy to make our service light or burdensome a pleasure or a toil . 
Say that his power lies in words and looks in things so slight and insignificant that it is impossible to add and count them up what then . 
The happiness he gives , is quite as great as if it cost a fortune . 
He felt the Spirit's glance , and stopped . 
Nothing in particular , said Scrooge . 
No , said Scrooge , No. I should like to be able to say a word or two to my clerk just now . 
His former self turned down the lamps as he gave utterance to the wish and Scrooge and the Ghost again stood side by side in the open air . 
My time grows short , observed the Spirit . 
This was not addressed to Scrooge , or to any one whom he could see , but it produced an immediate effect . 
For again Scrooge saw himself . 
He was older now a man in the prime of life . 
His face had not the harsh and rigid lines of later years but it had begun to wear the signs of care and avarice . 
There was an eager , greedy , restless motion in the eye , which showed the passion that had taken root , and where the shadow of the growing tree would fall . 
It matters little , she said , softly . 
To you , very little . 
Another idol has displaced me and if it can cheer and comfort you in time to come , as I would have tried to do , I have no just cause to grieve . 
What Idol has displaced you . 
This is the even handed dealing of the world . 
There is nothing on which it is so hard as poverty and there is nothing it professes to condemn with such severity as the pursuit of wealth . 
You fear the world too much , she answered , gently . 
All your other hopes have merged into the hope of being beyond the chance of its sordid reproach . 
I have seen your nobler aspirations fall off one by one , until the master passion , Gain , engrosses you . 
Even if I have grown so much wiser , what then . 
I am not changed towards you . 
Am I. Our contract is an old one . 
It was made when we were both poor and content to be so , until , in good season , we could improve our worldly fortune by our patient industry . 
When it was made , you were another man . 
I was a boy , he said impatiently . 
Your own feeling tells you that you were not what you are , she returned . 
That which promised happiness when we were one in heart , is fraught with misery now that we are two . 
How often and how keenly I have thought of this , I will not say . 
It is enough that I have thought of it , and can release you . 
Have I ever sought release . 
In a changed nature in an altered spirit in another atmosphere of life another Hope as its great end . 
In everything that made my love of any worth or value in your sight . 
He seemed to yield to the justice of this supposition , in spite of himself . 
But he said with a struggle , You think not . 
I would gladly think otherwise if I could , she answered , Heaven knows . 
When I have learned a Truth like this , I know how strong and irresistible it must be . 
I do and I release you . 
With a full heart , for the love of him you once were . 
He was about to speak but with her head turned from him , she resumed . 
You may the memory of what is past half makes me hope you will have pain in this . 
A very , very brief time , and you will dismiss the recollection of it , gladly , as an unprofitable dream , from which it happened well that you awoke . 
May you be happy in the life you have chosen . 
She left him , and they parted . 
said Scrooge , show me no more . 
Why do you delight to torture me . 
No more , I don't wish to see it . 
But the relentless Ghost pinioned him in both his arms , and forced him to observe what happened next . 
They were in another scene and place a room , not very large or handsome , but full of comfort . 
What would I not have given to one of them . 
Though I never could have been so rude , no , no . 
Then the shouting and the struggling , and the onslaught that was made on the defenceless porter . 
The shouts of wonder and delight with which the development of every package was received . 
The immense relief of finding this a false alarm . 
The joy , and gratitude , and ecstasy . 
They are all indescribable alike . 
Belle , said the husband , turning to his wife with a smile , I saw an old friend of yours this afternoon . 
How can I. Tut , don't I know . 
she added in the same breath , laughing as he laughed . 
I passed his office window and as it was not shut up , and he had a candle inside , I could scarcely help seeing him . 
His partner lies upon the point of death , I hear and there he sat alone . 
Quite alone in the world , I do believe . 
said Scrooge in a broken voice , remove me from this place . 
I told you these were shadows of the things that have been , said the Ghost . 
That they are what they are , do not blame me . 
Scrooge exclaimed , I cannot bear it . 
He was conscious of being exhausted , and overcome by an irresistible drowsiness and , further , of being in his own bedroom . 
He gave the cap a parting squeeze , in which his hand relaxed and had barely time to reel to bed , before he sank into a heavy sleep . 
For , he wished to challenge the Spirit on the moment of its appearance , and did not wish to be taken by surprise , and made nervous . 
Five minutes , ten minutes , a quarter of an hour went by , yet nothing came . 
This idea taking full possession of his mind , he got up softly and shuffled in his slippers to the door . 
The moment Scrooge's hand was on the lock , a strange voice called him by his name , and bade him enter . 
It was his own room . 
There was no doubt about that . 
But it had undergone a surprising transformation . 
The walls and ceiling were so hung with living green , that it looked a perfect grove from every part of which , bright gleaming berries glistened . 
and know me better , man . 
Scrooge entered timidly , and hung his head before this Spirit . 
He was not the dogged Scrooge he had been and though the Spirit's eyes were clear and kind , he did not like to meet them . 
I am the Ghost of Christmas Present , said the Spirit . 
It was clothed in one simple green robe , or mantle , bordered with white fur . 
This garment hung so loosely on the figure , that its capacious breast was bare , as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any artifice . 
Girded round its middle was an antique scabbard but no sword was in it , and the ancient sheath was eaten up with rust . 
You have never seen the like of me before . 
Never , Scrooge made answer to it . 
my elder brothers born in these later years . 
I don't think I have , said Scrooge . 
I am afraid I have not . 
Have you had many brothers , Spirit . 
More than eighteen hundred , said the Ghost . 
A tremendous family to provide for . 
The Ghost of Christmas Present rose . 
Spirit , said Scrooge submissively , conduct me where you will . 
I went forth last night on compulsion , and I learnt a lesson which is working now . 
To night , if you have aught to teach me , let me profit by it . 
Scrooge did as he was told , and held it fast . 
The poulterers' shops were still half open , and the fruiterers' were radiant in their glory . 
nearly closed , with perhaps two shutters down , or one but through those gaps such glimpses . 
But soon the steeples called good people all , to church and chapel , and away they came , flocking through the streets in their best clothes , and with their gayest faces . 
And at the same time there emerged from scores of bye streets , lanes , and nameless turnings , innumerable people , carrying their dinners to the baker' shops . 
For they said , it was a shame to quarrel upon Christmas Day . 
God love it , so it was . 
Is there a peculiar flavour in what you sprinkle from your torch . 
Would it apply to any kind of dinner on this day . 
To a poor one most . 
Why to a poor one most . 
Because it needs it most . 
You would deprive them of their means of dining every seventh day , often the only day on which they can be said to dine at all , said Scrooge . 
You seek to close these places on the Seventh Day . 
And it comes to the same thing . 
Forgive me if I am wrong . 
It has been done in your name , or at least in that of your family , said Scrooge . 
Remember that , and charge their doings on themselves , not us . 
Scrooge promised that he would and they went on , invisible , as they had been before , into the suburbs of the town . 
Bob had but fifteen bob a week himself he pocketed on Saturdays but fifteen copies of his Christian name and yet the Ghost of Christmas Present blessed his four roomed house . 
into his mouth , rejoiced to find himself so gallantly attired , and yearned to show his linen in the fashionable Parks . 
blew the fire , until the slow potatoes bubbling up , knocked loudly at the saucepan lid to be let out and peeled . 
What has ever got your precious father then . 
And your brother , Tiny Tim . 
And Martha warn't as late last Christmas Day by half an hour . 
said a girl , appearing as she spoke . 
cried the two young Cratchits . 
There's such a goose , Martha . 
Why , bless your heart alive , my dear , how late you are . 
said Mrs Cratchit , kissing her a dozen times , and taking off her shawl and bonnet for her with officious zeal . 
We'd a deal of work to finish up last night , replied the girl , and had to clear away this morning , mother . 
Never mind so long as you are come , said Mrs Cratchit . 
Sit ye down before the fire , my dear , and have a warm , Lord bless ye . 
There's father coming , cried the two young Cratchits , who were everywhere at once . 
Hide , Martha , hide . 
Alas for Tiny Tim , he bore a little crutch , and had his limbs supported by an iron frame . 
Why , where's our Martha . 
cried Bob Cratchit , looking round . 
Not coming , said Mrs Cratchit . 
said Bob , with a sudden declension in his high spirits for he had been Tim's blood horse all the way from church , and had come home rampant . 
Not coming upon Christmas Day . 
And how did little Tim behave . 
asked Mrs Cratchit , when she had rallied Bob on his credulity , and Bob had hugged his daughter to his heart's content . 
As good as gold , said Bob , and better . 
Somehow he gets thoughtful , sitting by himself so much , and thinks the strangest things you ever heard . 
Bob's voice was tremulous when he told them this , and trembled more when he said that Tiny Tim was growing strong and hearty . 
At last the dishes were set on , and grace was said . 
There never was such a goose . 
Bob said he didn't believe there ever was such a goose cooked . 
Its tenderness and flavour , size and cheapness , were the themes of universal admiration . 
, they hadn't ate it all at last . 
Yet every one had had enough , and the youngest Cratchits in particular , were steeped in sage and onion to the eyebrows . 
But now , the plates being changed by Miss Belinda , Mrs Cratchit left the room alone too nervous to bear witnesses to take the pudding up and bring it in . 
Suppose it should not be done enough . 
Suppose it should break in turning out . 
All sorts of horrors were supposed . 
A great deal of steam . 
The pudding was out of the copper . 
A smell like a washing day . 
A smell like an eating house and a pastrycook's next door to each other , with a laundress's next door to that . 
Oh , a wonderful pudding . 
Bob Cratchit said , and calmly too , that he regarded it as the greatest success achieved by Mrs Cratchit since their marriage . 
Mrs Cratchit said that now the weight was off her mind , she would confess she had had her doubts about the quantity of flour . 
Everybody had something to say about it , but nobody said or thought it was at all a small pudding for a large family . 
It would have been flat heresy to do so . 
Any Cratchit would have blushed to hint at such a thing . 
At last the dinner was all done , the cloth was cleared , the hearth swept , and the fire made up . 
The compound in the jug being tasted , and considered perfect , apples and oranges were put upon the table , and a shovel full of chestnuts on the fire . 
Then all the Cratchit family drew round the hearth , in what Bob Cratchit called a circle , meaning half a one and at Bob Cratchit's elbow stood the family display of glass . 
Two tumblers , and a custard cup without a handle . 
Then Bob proposed A Merry Christmas to us all , my dears . 
Which all the family re echoed . 
God bless us every one . 
said Tiny Tim , the last of all . 
He sat very close to his father's side upon his little stool . 
Spirit , said Scrooge , with an interest he had never felt before , tell me if Tiny Tim will live . 
I see a vacant seat , replied the Ghost , in the poor chimney corner , and a crutch without an owner , carefully preserved . 
If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future , the child will die . 
No , no , said Scrooge . 
Oh , no , kind Spirit . 
say he will be spared . 
If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future , none other of my race , returned the Ghost , will find him here . 
If he be like to die , he had better do it , and decrease the surplus population . 
Scrooge hung his head to hear his own words quoted by the Spirit , and was overcome with penitence and grief . 
Man , said the Ghost , if man you be in heart , not adamant , forbear that wicked cant until you have discovered What the surplus is , and Where it is . 
Will you decide what men shall live , what men shall die . 
It may be , that in the sight of Heaven , you are more worthless and less fit to live than millions like this poor man's child . 
to hear the Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too much life among his hungry brothers in the dust . 
Scrooge bent before the Ghost's rebuke , and trembling cast his eyes upon the ground . 
But he raised them speedily , on hearing his own name . 
said Bob I'll give you Mr Scrooge , the Founder of the Feast . 
The Founder of the Feast indeed . 
cried Mrs Cratchit , reddening . 
I wish I had him here . 
I'd give him a piece of my mind to feast upon , and I hope he'd have a good appetite for it . 
My dear , said Bob , the children . 
It should be Christmas Day , I am sure , said she , on which one drinks the health of such an odious , stingy , hard , unfeeling man as Mr Scrooge . 
You know he is , Robert . 
Nobody knows it better than you do , poor fellow . 
My dear , was Bob's mild answer , Christmas Day . 
I'll drink his health for your sake and the Day's , said Mrs Cratchit , not for his . 
A merry Christmas and a happy new year . 
He'll be very merry and very happy , I have no doubt . 
The children drank the toast after her . 
It was the first of their proceedings which had no heartiness . 
Tiny Tim drank it last of all , but he didn't care twopence for it . 
Scrooge was the Ogre of the family . 
The mention of his name cast a dark shadow on the party , which was not dispelled for full five minutes . 
After it had passed away , they were ten times merrier than before , from the mere relief of Scrooge the Baleful being done with . 
Bob Cratchit told them how he had a situation in his eye for Master Peter , which would bring in , if obtained , full five and sixpence weekly . 
There was nothing of high mark in this . 
Blessings on it , how the Ghost exulted . 
A place where Miners live , who labour in the bowels of the earth , returned the Spirit . 
Alight shone from the window of a hut , and swiftly they advanced towards it . 
Passing through the wall of mud and stone , they found a cheerful company assembled round a glowing fire . 
An old , old man and woman , with their children and their children's children , and another generation beyond that , all decked out gaily in their holiday attire . 
So surely as they raised their voices , the old man got quite blithe and loud and so surely as they stopped , his vigour sank again . 
The Spirit did not tarry here , but bade Scrooge hold his robe , and passing on above the moor , sped whither . 
Ha , ha , ha . 
Introduce him to me , and I'll cultivate his acquaintance . 
And their assembled friends being not a bit behindhand , roared out lustily . 
Ha , ha , ha , ha . 
He said that Christmas was a humbug , as I live . 
More shame for him , Fred . 
said Scrooge's niece , indignantly . 
Bless those women they never do anything by halves . 
They are always in earnest . 
She was very pretty exceedingly pretty . 
However , his offences carry their own punishment , and I have nothing to say against him . 
I'm sure he is very rich , Fred , hinted Scrooge's niece . 
At least you always tell me so . 
What of that , my dear . 
His wealth is of no use to him . 
He don't do any good with it . 
He don't make himself comfortable with it . 
He hasn't the satisfaction of thinking ha , ha , ha . 
that he is ever going to benefit us with it . 
I have no patience with him , observed Scrooge's niece . 
Scrooge's niece's sisters , and all the other ladies , expressed the same opinion . 
I am sorry for him I couldn't be angry with him if I tried . 
Who suffers by his ill whims . 
Here , he takes it into his head to dislike us , and he won't come and dine with us . 
He don't lose much of a dinner . 
Indeed , I think he loses a very good dinner , interrupted Scrooge's niece . 
I'm very glad to hear it , said Scrooge's nephew , because I haven't great faith in these young housekeepers . 
What do you say , Topper . 
Whereat Scrooge's niece's sister the plump one with the lace tucker not the one with the roses blushed . 
Do go on , Fred , said Scrooge's niece , clapping her hands . 
He never finishes what he begins to say . 
He is such a ridiculous fellow . 
I am sure he loses pleasanter companions than he can find in his own thoughts , either in his mouldy old office , or his dusty chambers . 
I mean to give him the same chance every year , whether he likes it or not , for I pity him . 
If it only puts him in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pounds , that's something and I think I shook him yesterday . 
It was their turn to laugh now at the notion of his shaking Scrooge . 
, which had been familiar to the child who fetched Scrooge from the boarding school , as he had been reminded by the Ghost of Christmas Past . 
But they didn't devote the whole evening to music . 
After a while they played at forfeits for it is good to be children sometimes , and never better than at Christmas , when its mighty Founder was a child himself . 
There was first a game at blind man's buff . 
And I no more believe Topper was really blind than I believe he had eyes in his boots . 
My opinion is , that it was a done thing between him and Scrooge's nephew and that the Ghost of Christmas Present knew it . 
The way he went after that plump sister in the lace tucker , was an outrage on the credulity of human nature . 
Knocking down the fire irons , tumbling over the chairs , bumping against the piano , smothering himself among the curtains , wherever she went , there went he . 
He always knew where the plump sister was . 
He wouldn't catch anybody else . 
She often cried out that it wasn't fair and it really was not . 
No doubt she told him her opinion of it , when , another blind man being in office , they were so very confidential together , behind the curtains . 
But she joined in the forfeits , and loved her love to admiration with all the letters of the alphabet . 
But this the Spirit said could not be done . 
Here is a new game , said Scrooge . 
One half hour , Spirit , only one . 
At last the plump sister , falling into a similar state , cried out I have found it out . 
I know what it is , Fred . 
I know what it is . 
Admiration was the universal sentiment , though some objected that the reply to Is it a bear . 
ought to have been Yes inasmuch as an answer in the negative was sufficient to have diverted their thoughts from Mr Scrooge , supposing they had ever had any tendency that way . 
He has given us plenty of merriment , I am sure , said Fred , and it would be ungrateful not to drink his health . 
Here is a glass of mulled wine ready to our hand at the moment and I say , Uncle Scrooge . 
A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to the old man , whatever he is . 
He wouldn't take it from me , but may he have it , nevertheless . 
But the whole scene passed off in the breath of the last word spoken by his nephew and he and the Spirit were again upon their travels . 
Much they saw , and far they went , and many homes they visited , but always with a happy end . 
It was strange , too , that while Scrooge remained unaltered in his outward form , the Ghost grew older , clearly older . 
Are spirits' lives so short . 
My life upon this globe , is very brief , replied the Ghost . 
The time is drawing near . 
The chimes were ringing the three quarters past eleven at that moment . 
Is it a foot or a claw . 
It might be a claw , for the flesh there is upon it , was the Spirit's sorrowful reply . 
From the foldings of its robe , it brought two children wretched , abject , frightful , hideous , miserable . 
They knelt down at its feet , and clung upon the outside of its garment . 
Look , look , down here . 
They were a boy and a girl . 
Yellow , meagre , ragged , scowling , wolfish but prostrate , too , in their humility . 
Where angels might have sat enthroned , devils lurked , and glared out menacing . 
No change , no degradation , no perversion of humanity , in any grade , through all the mysteries of wonderful creation , has monsters half so horrible and dread . 
Scrooge started back , appalled . 
Scrooge could say no more . 
They are Man's , said the Spirit , looking down upon them . 
And they cling to me , appealing from their fathers . 
cried the Spirit , stretching out its hand towards the city . 
Slander those who tell it ye . 
Admit it for your factious purposes , and make it worse . 
Have they no refuge or resource . 
said the Spirit , turning on him for the last time with his own words . 
Scrooge looked about him for the Ghost , and saw it not . 
Stave The Last of the Spirits The Phantom slowly , gravely , silently approached . 
When it came , Scrooge bent down upon his knee for in the very air through which this Spirit moved it seemed to scatter gloom and mystery . 
It was shrouded in a deep black garment , which concealed its head , its face , its form , and left nothing of it visible save one outstretched hand . 
But for this it would have been difficult to detach its figure from the night , and separate it from the darkness by which it was surrounded . 
He felt that it was tall and stately when it came beside him , and that its mysterious presence filled him with a solemn dread . 
He knew no more , for the Spirit neither spoke nor moved . 
I am in the presence of the Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come . 
The Spirit answered not , but pointed onward with its hand . 
You are about to show me shadows of the things that have not happened , but will happen in the time before us , Scrooge pursued . 
Is that so , Spirit . 
The upper portion of the garment was contracted for an instant in its folds , as if the Spirit had inclined its head . 
That was the only answer he received . 
The Spirit pauses a moment , as observing his condition , and giving him time to recover . 
But Scrooge was all the worse for this . 
he exclaimed , I fear you more than any spectre I have seen . 
Will you not speak to me . 
It gave him no reply . 
The hand was pointed straight before them . 
The night is waning fast , and it is precious time to me , I know . 
The Phantom moved away as it had come towards him . 
Scrooge followed in the shadow of its dress , which bore him up , he thought , and carried him along . 
They scarcely seemed to enter the city for the city rather seemed to spring up about them , and encompass them of its own act . 
The Spirit stopped beside one little knot of business men . 
Observing that the hand was pointed to them , Scrooge advanced to listen to their talk . 
No , said a great fat man with a monstrous chin , I don't know much about it , either way . 
I only know he's dead . 
Last night , I believe . 
Why , what was the matter with him . 
asked a third , taking a vast quantity of snuff out of a very large snuff box . 
I thought he'd never die . 
God knows , said the first , with a yawn . 
What has he done with his money . 
asked a red faced gentleman with a pendulous excrescence on the end of his nose , that shook like the gills of a turkey cock . 
I haven't heard , said the man with the large chin , yawning again . 
Left it to his company , perhaps . 
He hasn't left it to me . 
This pleasantry was received with a general laugh . 
It's likely to be a very cheap funeral , said the same speaker for upon my life I don't know of anybody to go to it . 
Suppose we make up a party and volunteer . 
I don't mind going if a lunch is provided , observed the gentleman with the excrescence on his nose . 
But I must be fed , if I make one . 
Well , I am the most disinterested among you , after all , said the first speaker , for I never wear black gloves , and I never eat lunch . 
But I'll offer to go , if anybody else will . 
When I come to think of it , I m not at all sure that I wasn't his most particular friend for we used to stop and speak whenever we met . 
Speakers and listeners strolled away , and mixed with other groups . 
Scrooge knew the men , and looked towards the Spirit for an explanation . 
The Phantom glided on into a street . 
Its finger pointed to two persons meeting . 
Scrooge listened again , thinking that the explanation might lie here . 
He knew these men , also , perfectly . 
They were men of aye business very wealthy , and of great importance . 
He had made a point always of standing well in their esteem in a business point of view , that is strictly in a business point of view . 
Old Scratch has got his own at last , hey . 
So I am told , returned the second . 
You're not a skater , I suppose . 
No. No. Something else to think of . 
That was their meeting , their conversation , and their parting . 
They could scarcely be supposed to have any bearing on the death of Jacob , his old partner , for that was Past , and this Ghost's province was the Future . 
Nor could he think of any one immediately connected with himself , to whom he could apply them . 
For he had an expectation that the conduct of his future self would give him the clue he missed , and would render the solution of these riddles easy . 
Quiet and dark , beside him stood the Phantom , with its outstretched hand . 
It made him shudder , and feel very cold . 
They left the busy scene , and went into an obscure part of the town , where Scrooge had never penetrated before , although he recognised its situation , and its bad repute . 
The ways were foul and narrow the shops and houses wretched the people half naked , drunken , slipshod , ugly . 
Upon the floor within , were piled up heaps of rusty keys , nails , chains , hinges , files , scales , weights , and refuse iron of all kinds . 
Secrets that few would like to scrutinise were bred and hidden in mountains of unseemly rags , masses of corrupted fat , and sepulchres of bones . 
Scrooge and the Phantom came into the presence of this man , just as a woman with a heavy bundle slunk into the shop . 
After a short period of blank astonishment , in which the old man with the pipe had joined them , they all three burst into a laugh . 
Let the charwoman alone to be the first . 
cried she who had entered first . 
Let the laundress alone to be the second and let the undertaker's man alone to be the third . 
Look here , old Joe , here's a chance . 
If we haven't all three met here without meaning it . 
You couldn't have met in a better place , said old Joe , removing his pipe from his mouth . 
You were made free of it long ago , you know and the other two an't strangers . 
Stop till I shut the door of the shop . 
There an't such a rusty bit of metal in the place as its own hinges , I believe and I'm sure there's no such old bones here , as mine . 
We're all suitable to our calling , we're well matched . 
The parlour was the space behind the screen of rags . 
, with the stem of his pipe , put it in his mouth again . 
What odds , Mrs Dilber . 
Every person has a right to take care of themselves . 
Why then , don't stand staring as if you was afraid , woman who's the wiser . 
We're not going to pick holes in each other's coats , I suppose . 
said Mrs Dilber and the man together . 
Who's the worse for the loss of a few things like these . 
Not a dead man , I suppose . 
No , indeed , said Mrs Dilber , laughing . 
If he wanted to keep them after he was dead , a wicked old screw , pursued the woman , why wasn't he natural in his lifetime . 
If he had been , he'd have had somebody to look after him when he was struck with Death , instead of lying gasping out his last there , alone by himself . 
It's the truest word that ever was spoke , said Mrs Dilber . 
It's a judgment on him . 
Open that bundle , old Joe , and let me know the value of it . 
I'm not afraid to be the first , nor afraid for them to see it . 
We know pretty well that we were helping ourselves , before we met here , I believe . 
Open the bundle , Joe . 
But the gallantry of her friends would not allow of this and the man in faded black , mounting the breach first , produced his plunder . 
A seal or two , a pencil case , a pair of sleeve buttons , and a brooch of no great value , were all . 
That's your account , said Joe , and I wouldn't give another sixpence , if I was to be boiled for not doing it . 
Sheets and towels , a little wearing apparel , two old fashioned silver teaspoons , a pair of sugar tongs , and a few boots . 
Her account was stated on the wall in the same manner . 
I always give too much to ladies . 
It's a weakness of mine , and that's the way I ruin myself , said old Joe . 
If you asked me for another penny , and made it an open question , I'd repent of being so liberal and knock off half a crown . 
And now undo my bundle , Joe , said the first woman . 
Joe went down on his knees for the greater convenience of opening it , and having unfastened a great many knots , dragged out a large and heavy roll of some dark stuff . 
What do you call this . 
returned the woman , laughing and leaning forward on her crossed arms . 
You don't mean to say you took them down , rings and all , with him lying there . 
Yes I do , replied the woman . 
You were born to make your fortune , said Joe , and you'll certainly do it . 
Don't drop that oil upon the blankets , now . 
Whose else's do you think . 
He isn't likely to take cold without them , I dare say . 
I hope he didn't die of any thing catching . 
said old Joe , stopping in his work , and looking up . 
Don't you be afraid of that , returned the woman . 
I an't so fond of his company that I'd loiter about him for such things , if he did . 
you may look through that shirt till your eyes ache but you won't find a hole in it , nor a threadbare place . 
It's the best he had , and a fine one too . 
They'd have wasted it , if it hadn't been for me . 
What do you call wasting of it . 
Putting it on him to be buried in , to be sure , replied the woman with a laugh . 
Somebody was fool enough to do it , but I took it off again . 
If calico an't good enough for such a purpose , it isn't good enough for anything . 
It's quite as becoming to the body . 
He can't look uglier than he did in that one . 
Scrooge listened to this dialogue in horror . 
laughed the same woman , when old Joe , producing a flannel bag with money in it , told out their several gains upon the ground . 
This is the end of it , you see . 
He frightened every one away from him when he was alive , to profit us when he was dead . 
Ha , ha , ha . 
said Scrooge , shuddering from head to foot . 
I see , I see . 
The case of this unhappy man might be my own . 
My life tends that way , now . 
Merciful Heaven , what is this . 
Scrooge glanced towards the Phantom . 
Its steady hand was pointed to the head . 
The cover was so carelessly adjusted that the slightest raising of it , the motion of a finger upon Scrooge's part , would have disclosed the face . 
Oh cold , cold , rigid , dreadful Death , set up thine altar here , and dress it with such terrors as thou hast at thy command for this is thy dominion . 
But of the loved , revered , and honoured head , thou canst not turn one hair to thy dread purposes , or make one feature odious . 
Strike , Shadow , strike . 
And see his good deeds springing from the wound , to sow the world with life immortal . 
No voice pronounced these words in Scrooge's ears , and yet he heard them when he looked upon the bed . 
He thought , if this man could be raised up now , what would be his foremost thoughts . 
Avarice , hard dealing , griping cares . 
They have brought him to a rich end , truly . 
A cat was tearing at the door , and there was a sound of gnawing rats beneath the hearth stone . 
What they wanted in the room of death , and why they were so restless and disturbed , Scrooge did not dare to think . 
he said , this is a fearful place . 
In leaving it , I shall not leave its lesson , trust me . 
Still the Ghost pointed with an unmoved finger to the head . 
I understand you , Scrooge returned , and I would do it , if I could . 
But I have not the power , Spirit . 
I have not the power . 
Again it seemed to look upon him . 
The Phantom spread its dark robe before him for a moment , like a wing and withdrawing it , revealed a room by daylight , where a mother and her children were . 
At length the long expected knock was heard . 
She hurried to the door , and met her husband a man whose face was careworn and depressed , though he was young . 
There was a remarkable expression in it now a kind of serious delight of which he felt ashamed , and which he struggled to repress . 
, he appeared embarrassed how to answer . 
she said , or bad ? to help him . 
No. There is hope yet , Caroline . 
If he relents , she said , amazed , there is . 
Nothing is past hope , if such a miracle has happened . 
He is past relenting , said her husband . 
She was a mild and patient creature if her face spoke truth but she was thankful in her soul to hear it , and she said so , with clasped hands . 
She prayed forgiveness the next moment , and was sorry but the first was the emotion of her heart . 
He was not only very ill , but dying , then . 
To whom will our debt be transferred . 
We may sleep to night with light hearts , Caroline . 
Soften it as they would , their hearts were lighter . 
The children's faces , hushed and clustered round to hear what they so little understood , were brighter and it was a happier house for this man's death . 
The only emotion that the Ghost could show him , caused by the event , was one of pleasure . 
Let me see some tenderness connected with a death , said Scrooge or that dark chamber , Spirit , which we left just now , will be for ever present to me . 
The Ghost conducted him through several streets familiar to his feet and as they went along , Scrooge looked here and there to find himself , but nowhere was he to be seen . 
They entered poor Bob Cratchit's house the dwelling he had visited before and found the mother and the children seated round the fire . 
The noisy little Cratchits were as still as statues in one corner , and sat looking up at Peter , who had a book before him . 
The mother and her daughters were engaged in sewing . 
But surely they were very quiet . 
And he took a child , and set him in the midst of them . 
Where had Scrooge heard those words . 
He had not dreamed them . 
The boy must have read them out , as he and the Spirit crossed the threshold . 
Why did he not go on . 
The mother laid her work upon the table , and put her hand up to her face . 
The colour hurts my eyes , she said . 
Ah , poor Tiny Tim . 
They're better now again , said Cratchit's wife . 
It makes them weak by candle light and I wouldn't show weak eyes to your father when he comes home , for the world . 
It must be near his time . 
Past it rather , Peter answered , shutting up his book . 
But I think he has walked a little slower than he used , these few last evenings , mother . 
They were very quiet again . 
And so have I , cried Peter . 
And so have I , exclaimed another . 
But he was very light to carry , she resumed , intent upon her work , and his father loved him so , that it was no trouble no trouble . 
And there is your father at the door . 
She hurried out to meet him and little Bob in his comforter he had need of it , poor fellow came in . 
His tea was ready for him on the hob , and they all tried who should help him to it most . 
Then the two young Cratchits got upon his knees and laid , each child a little cheek , against his face , as if they said , Don't mind it , father . 
Bob was very cheerful with them , and spoke pleasantly to all the family . 
He looked at the work upon the table , and praised the industry and speed of Mrs Cratchit and the girls . 
They would be done long before Sunday , he said . 
You went to day , then , Robert . 
Yes , my dear , returned Bob . 
I wish you could have gone . 
It would have done you good to see how green a place it is . 
But you'll see it often . 
I promised him that I would walk there on a Sunday . 
My little , little child . 
He broke down all at once . 
If he could have helped it , he and his child would have been farther apart perhaps than they were . 
He left the room , and went up stairs into the room above , which was lighted cheerfully , and hung with Christmas . 
There was a chair set close beside the child , and there were signs of some one having been there , lately . 
Poor Bob sat down in it , and when he had thought a little and composed himself , he kissed the little face . 
He was reconciled to what had happened , and went down again quite happy . 
They drew about the fire , and talked the girls and mother working still . 
On which , said Bob , for he is the pleasantest spoken gentleman you ever heard , I told him . 
I am heartily sorry for it , Mr Cratchit , he said , and heartily sorry for your good wife . 
By the bye , how he ever knew that , I don't know . 
Knew what , my dear . 
Why , that you were a good wife , replied Bob . 
Very well observed , my boy . 
Heartily sorry , he said , for your good wife . 
If I can be of service to you in any way , he said , giving me his card , that's where I live . 
It really seemed as if he had known our Tiny Tim , and felt with us . 
I'm sure he's a good soul . 
You would be surer of it , my dear , returned Bob , if you saw and spoke to him . 
I shouldn't be at all surprised mark what I say . 
if he got Peter a better situation . 
Only hear that , Peter , said Mrs Cratchit . 
And then , cried one of the girls , Peter will be keeping company with some one , and setting up for himself . 
It's just as likely as not , said Bob , one of these days though there's plenty of time for that , my dear . 
No , never , father . 
I am very happy , said little Bob , I am very happy . 
Mrs Cratchit kissed him , his daughters kissed him , the two young Cratchits kissed him , and Peter and himself shook hands . 
Spirit of Tiny Tim , thy childish essence was from God . 
Spectre , said Scrooge , something informs me that our parting moment is at hand . 
I know it , but I know not how . 
Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying dead . 
Indeed , the Spirit did not stay for anything , but went straight on , as to the end just now desired , until besought by Scrooge to tarry for a moment . 
This courts , said Scrooge , through which we hurry now , is where my place of occupation is , and has been for a length of time . 
Let me behold what I shall be , in days to come . 
The Spirit stopped the hand was pointed elsewhere . 
The house is yonder , Scrooge exclaimed . 
Why do you point away . 
The inexorable finger underwent no change . 
Scrooge hastened to the window of his office , and looked in . 
It was an office still , but not his . 
The furniture was not the same , and the figure in the chair was not himself . 
The Phantom pointed as before . 
He joined it once again , and wondering why and whither he had gone , accompanied it until they reached an iron gate . 
He paused to look round before entering . 
Here , then , the wretched man whose name he had now to learn , lay underneath the ground . 
It was a worthy place . 
Walled in by houses overrun by grass and weeds , the growth of vegetation's death , not life choked up with too much burying fat with repleted appetite . 
The Spirit stood among the graves , and pointed down to One . 
He advanced towards it trembling . 
The Phantom was exactly as it had been , but he dreaded that he saw new meaning in its solemn shape . 
Before I draw nearer to that stone to which you point , said Scrooge , answer me one question . 
Are these the shadows of the things that Will be , or are they shadows of things that May be , only . 
Still the Ghost pointed downward to the grave by which it stood . 
Men's courses will foreshadow certain ends , to which , if persevered in , they must lead , said Scrooge . 
But if the courses be departed from , the ends will change . 
Say it is thus with what you show me . 
The Spirit was immovable as ever . 
Scrooge crept towards it , trembling as he went and following the finger , read upon the stone of the neglected grave his own name , Ebenezer Scrooge . 
Am I that man who lay upon the bed . 
he cried , upon his knees . 
The finger pointed from the grave to him , and back again . 
The finger still was there . 
he cried , tight clutching at its robe , hear me . 
I am not the man I was . 
I will not be the man I must have been but for this intercourse . 
Why show me this , if I am past all hope . 
For the first time the hand appeared to shake . 
Good Spirit , he pursued , as down upon the ground he fell before it Your nature intercedes for me , and pities me . 
Assure me that I yet may change these shadows you have shown me , by an altered life . 
I will honour Christmas in my heart , and try to keep it all the year . 
I will live in the Past , the Present , and the Future . 
The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me . 
I will not shut out the lessons that they teach . 
Oh , tell me I may sponge away the writing on this stone . 
In his agony , he caught the spectral hand . 
It sought to free itself , but he was strong in his entreaty , and detained it . 
The Spirit , stronger yet , repulsed him . 
Holding up his hands in a last prayer to have his fate aye reversed , he saw an alteration in the Phantom's hood and dress . 
It shrunk , collapsed , and dwindled down into a bedpost . 
Stave The End of It Yes ! and the bedpost was his own . 
The bed was his own , the room was his own . 
Best and happiest of all , the Time before him was his own , to make amends in ! I will live in the Past , the Present , and the Future . 
Scrooge repeated , as he scrambled out of bed . 
The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me . 
Heaven , and the Christmas Time be praised for this . 
I say it on my knees , old Jacob , on my knees . 
He was so fluttered and so glowing with his good intentions , that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his call . 
He had been sobbing violently in his conflict with the Spirit , and his face was wet with tears . 
They are not torn down . 
cried Scrooge , folding one of his bed curtains in his arms , they are not torn down , rings and all . 
They are here I am here the shadows of the things that would have been , may be dispelled . 
I don't know what to do . 
cried Scrooge , laughing and crying in the same breath and making a perfect Laocoon of himself with his stockings . 
I am as light as a feather , I am as happy as an angel , I am as merry as a schoolboy . 
I am as giddy as a drunken man . 
A merry Christmas to everybody . 
A happy New Year to all the world . 
He had frisked into the sitting room , and was now standing there perfectly winded . 
There's the saucepan that the gruel was in . 
cried Scrooge , starting off again , and going round the fireplace . 
There's the door , by which the Ghost of Jacob Marley entered . 
There's the corner where the Ghost of Christmas Present , sat . 
There's the window where I saw the wandering Spirits . 
It's all right , it's all true , it all happened . 
Really , for a man who had been out of practice for so many years , it was a splendid laugh , a most illustrious laugh . 
The father of a long , long line of brilliant laughs . 
I don't know what day of the month it is . 
I don't know how long I've been among the Spirits . 
I'd rather be a baby . 
He was checked in his transports by the churches ringing out the lustiest peals he had ever heard . 
Clash , clang , hammer ding , dong , bell . 
Bell , dong , ding hammer , clang , clash . 
Oh , glorious , glorious . 
Running to the window , he opened it , and put out his head . 
No fog , no mist clear , bright , jovial , stirring , cold cold , piping for the blood to dance to Golden sunlight Heavenly sky sweet fresh air merry bells . 
cried Scrooge , calling downward to a boy in Sunday clothes , who perhaps had loitered in to look about him . 
returned the boy , with all his might of wonder . 
What's to day , my fine fellow . 
The Spirits have done it all in one night . 
They can do anything they like . 
Hallo , my fine fellow . 
Do you know the Poulterer's , in the next street but one , at the corner . 
I should hope I did , replied the lad . 
Do you know whether they've sold the prize Turkey that was hanging up there Not the little prize Turkey the big one . 
What , the one as big as me . 
It's a pleasure to talk to him . 
It's hanging there now , replied the boy . 
No , no , said Scrooge , I am in earnest . 
Go and buy it , and tell them to bring it here , that I may give them the direction where to take it . 
Come back with the man , and I'll give you a shilling . 
Come back with him in less than five minutes and I'll give you half a crown . 
The boy was off like a shot . 
He must have had a steady hand at a trigger who could have got a shot off half so fast . 
I'll send it to Bon Cratchit's . 
whispered Scrooge , rubbing his hands , and splitting with a laugh . 
He shan't know who sends it . 
It's twice the size of Tiny Tim . 
Joe Miller never made such a joke as sending it to Bob's will be . 
As he stood there , waiting his arrival , the knocker caught his eye . 
I shall love it , as long as I live . 
cried Scrooge , patting it with his hand . 
I scarcely ever looked at it before . 
What an honest expression it has in its face . 
He never could have stood upon his legs , that bird . 
He would have snapped them short off in a minute , like sticks of sealing wax . 
Why , it's impossible to carry that to Camden Town , said Scrooge . 
You must have a cab . 
Shaving was not an easy task , for his hand continued to shake very much and shaving requires attention , even when you don't dance while you are at it . 
But if he had cut the end of his nose off , he would have put a piece of sticking plaister over it , and been quite satisfied . 
He dressed himself all in his best , and at last got out into the streets . 
He looked so irresistibly pleasant , in a word , that three or four good humoured fellows said , Good morning , sir . 
A merry Christmas to you . 
And Scrooge said often afterwards , that of all the blithe sounds he had ever heard , those were the blithest in his ears . 
My dear sir , said Scrooge , quickening his pace , and taking the old gentleman by both his hands . 
I hope you succeeded yesterday . 
It was very kind of you . 
A merry Christmas to you , sir . 
That is my name , and I fear it may not be pleasant to you . 
Allow me to ask your pardon . 
And will you have the goodness' here Scrooge whispered in his ear . 
cried the gentleman , as if his breath were taken away . 
My dear Mr Scrooge , are you serious . 
If you please , said Scrooge . 
A great many back payments are included in it , I assure you . 
Will you do me that favour . 
My dear sir , said the other , shaking hands with him . 
I don't know what to say to such munificence . 
Don't say anything please , retorted Scrooge . 
Will you come and see me . 
And it was clear he meant to do it . 
Thank you , said Scrooge . 
I am much obliged to you . 
I thank you fifty times . 
He had never dreamed that any walk that anything could give him so much happiness . 
In the afternoon he turned his steps towards his nephew's house . 
He passed the door a dozen times , before he had the courage to go up and knock . 
But he made a dash , and did it Is your master at home , my dear . 
said Scrooge to the girl . 
Where is he , my love . 
He's in the dining room , sir , along with mistress . 
I'll show you up stairs , if you please . 
He knows me , said Scrooge , with his hand already on the dining room lock . 
I'll go in here , my dear . 
He turned it gently , and sidled his face in , round the door . 
for these young housekeepers are always nervous on such points , and like to see that everything is right . 
Dear heart alive , how his niece by marriage started . 
Scrooge had forgotten , for the moment , about her sitting in the corner with the footstool , or he wouldn't have done it , on any account . 
cried Fred , who's that . 
It's I. Your uncle Scrooge . 
I have come to dinner . 
Will you let me in , Fred . 
It is a mercy he didn't shake his arm off . 
He was at home in five minutes . 
His niece looked just the same . 
So did Topper when he came . 
So did the plump sister when she came . 
So did every one when they came . 
Wonderful party , wonderful games , wonderful unanimity , wonderful happiness . 
But he was early at the office next morning . 
Oh , he was early there . 
If he could only be there first , and catch Bob Cratchit coming late . 
That was the thing he had set his heart upon . 
And he did it yes , he did . 
He was full eighteen minutes and a half behind his time . 
Scrooge sat with his door wide open , that he might see him come into the Tank . 
His hat was off , before he opened the door his comforter too . 
He was on his stool in a jiffy driving away with his pen , as if he were trying to overtake nine o'clock . 
growled Scrooge , in his accustomed voice , as near as he could feign it . 
What do you mean by coming here at this time of day . 
I am very sorry , sir , said Bob . 
I am behind my time . 
Step this way , sir , if you please . 
It's only once a year , sir , pleaded Bob , appearing from the Tank . 
It shall not be repeated . 
I was making rather merry yesterday , sir . 
Now , I'll tell you what , my friend , said Scrooge , I am not going to stand this sort of thing any longer . 
Bob trembled , and got a little nearer to the ruler . 
He had a momentary idea of knocking Scrooge down with it , holding him , and calling to the people in the court for help and a strait waistcoat . 
A merry Christmas , Bob , said Scrooge , with an earnestness that could not be mistaken , as he clapped him on the back . 
A merrier Christmas , Bob , my good fellow , than I have given you for many a year . 
I'll raise your salary , and endeavour to assist your struggling family , and we will discuss your affairs this very afternoon , over a Christmas bowl of smoking bishop , Bob . 
Make up the fires , and buy another coal scuttle before you dot another i , Bob Cratchit . 
Scrooge was better than his word . 
He did it all , and infinitely more and to Tiny Tim , who did not die , he was a second father . 
His own heart laughed and that was quite enough for him . 
