Reprinted Pieces by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
Sitting on my ruddy hearth in the twilight of New Year's Eve , I find incidents of travel rise around me from all the latitudes and longitudes of the globe . 
They observe no order or sequence , but appear and vanish as they will 'come like shadows , so depart . 
Bruce is caged in Abyssinia , surrounded by the gory horrors which shall often startle him out of his sleep at home when years have passed away . 
A convict is its chief figure , and this man escapes with other prisoners from a penal settlement . 
It is an island , and they seize a boat , and get to the main land . 
Famine , as they all must have foreseen , besets them early in their course . 
Some of the party die and are eaten some are murdered by the rest and eaten . 
This one awful creature eats his fill , and sustains his strength , and lives on to be recaptured and taken back . 
The unrelateable experiences through which he has passed have been so tremendous , that he is not hanged as he might be , but goes back to his old chained gang work . 
A little time , and he tempts one other prisoner away , seizes another boat , and flies once more necessarily in the old hopeless direction , for he can take no other . 
He is soon cut off , and met by the pursuing party face to face , upon the beach . 
In his former journey he acquired an inappeasable relish for his dreadful food . 
He urged the new man away , expressly to kill him and eat him . 
He is taken back , and he is hanged . 
The ship has been driving many hours , has seven feet water in her hold , and her mainmast has been cut away . 
The description of her loss , familiar to me from my early boyhood , seems to be read aloud as she rushes to her destiny . 
Another conversation taking place , Captain Pierce expressed extreme anxiety for the preservation of his beloved daughters , and earnestly asked the officer if he could devise any method of saving them . 
'The ship continued to beat on the rocks and soon bilging , fell with her broadside towards the shore . 
When she struck , a number of the men climbed up the ensign staff , under an apprehension of her immediately going to pieces . 
'It is difficult to convey a correct idea of the scene of this deplorable catastrophe , without describing the place where it happened . 
The Haleswell struck on the rocks at a part of the shore where the cliff is of vast height , and rises almost perpendicular from its base . 
'The ship lay with her broadside opposite to the mouth of this cavern , with her whole length stretched almost from side to side of it . 
But when she struck , it was too dark for the unfortunate persons on board to discover the real magnitude of the danger , and the extreme horror of such a situation . 
The numbers there were , therefore , now increased to near fifty . 
Captain Pierce sat on a chair , a cot , or some other moveable , with a daughter on each side , whom he alternately pressed to his affectionate breast . 
The rest of the melancholy assembly were seated on the deck , which was strewed with musical instruments , and the wreck of furniture and other articles . 
At this time they were all tolerably composed , except Miss Mansel , who was in hysteric fits on the floor of the deck of the round house . 
He now supported himself by swimming , until a returning wave dashed him against the back part of the cavern . 
Rogers , the third mate , remained with the captain and the unfortunate ladies and their companions nearly twenty minutes after Mr. Meriton had quitted the ship . 
'The sea was now breaking in at the fore part of the ship , and reached as far as the mainmast . 
They then returned to the round house , where Mr. Rogers hung up the lamp , and Captain Pierce sat down between his two daughters . 
'The sea continuing to break in very fast , Mr. Macmanus , a midshipman , and Mr. Schutz , a passenger , asked Mr. Rogers what they could do to escape . 
Follow me , he replied , and they all went into the stern gallery , and from thence to the upper quarter gallery on the poop . 
Brimer had followed him to the poop , where they remained together about five minutes , when on the breaking of this heavy sea , they jointly seized a hen coop . 
The same wave which proved fatal to some of those below , carried him and his companion to the rock , on which they were violently dashed and miserably bruised . 
Scarcely more than six , besides Mr. Rogers and Mr. Brimer , succeeded . 
Rogers , on gaining this station , was so nearly exhausted , that had his exertions been protracted only a few minutes longer , he must have sunk under them . 
He was now prevented from joining Mr. Meriton , by at least twenty men between them , none of whom could move , without the imminent peril of his life . 
The most beautiful and affecting incident I know , associated with a shipwreck , succeeds this dismal story for a winter night . 
The Grosvenor , East Indiaman , homeward bound , goes ashore on the coast of Caffraria . 
With this forlorn object before them , they finally separate into two parties never more to meet on earth . 
The crying of a child might be supposed to be a little thing to men in such great extremity but it touches them , and he is immediately taken into that detachment . 
From which time forth , this child is sublimely made a sacred charge . 
they share with him such putrid fish as they find to eat they lie down and wait for him when the rough carpenter , who becomes his especial friend , lags behind . 
The carpenter dies of poisonous berries eaten in starvation and the steward , succeeding to the command of the party , succeeds to the sacred guardianship of the child . 
They wait by them one day , they wait by them two days . 
The moment comes , the fire is dying and the child is dead . 
His faithful friend , the steward , lingers but a little while behind him . 
His grief is great , he staggers on for a few days , lies down in the desert , and dies . 
Thoughts of a voyager unexpectedly summoned from home , who travelled a vast distance , and could never return . 
For , there were many , many things he had neglected . 
Little matters while he was at home and surrounded by them , but things of mighty moment when he was at an immeasurable distance . 
, for but one day to make amends ! But the sun never shone upon that happy day , and out of his remote captivity he never came . 
THE BEGGING LETTER WRITER THE amount of money he annually diverts from wholesome and useful purposes in the United Kingdom , would be a set off against the Window Tax . 
He is one of the most shameless frauds and impositions of this time . 
Under any rational system , he would have been sent there long ago . 
I , the writer of this paper , have been , for some time , a chosen receiver of Begging Letters . 
For fourteen years , my house has been made as regular a Receiving House for such communications as any one of the great branch Post Offices is for general correspondence . 
I ought to know something of the Begging Letter Writer . 
He has frequently been exactly seven and sixpence short of independence . 
The natural phenomena of which he has been the victim , are of a most astounding nature . 
who have never changed in the least degree through fourteen long revolving years . 
As to his wife , what that suffering woman has undergone , nobody knows . 
She has always been in an interesting situation through the same long period , and has never been confined yet . 
His devotion to her has been unceasing . 
He has been the sport of the strangest misfortunes . 
What his brother has done to him would have broken anybody else's heart . 
permit his brother to provide for him . 
His landlord has never shown a spark of human feeling . 
When he put in that execution I don't know , but he has never taken it out . 
The broker's man has grown grey in possession . 
They will have to bury him some day . 
He has been attached to every conceivable pursuit . 
he can tell you what Shakespeare says about begging , better than you know it . 
His life presents a series of inconsistencies . 
Sometimes he has never written such a letter before . 
That is the first time that shall be the last . 
Don't answer it , and let it be understood that , then , he will kill himself quietly . 
Sometimes he HAS written a few such letters . 
Then he encloses the answers , with an intimation that they are of inestimable value to him , and a request that they may be carefully returned . 
He is fond of enclosing something verses , letters , pawnbrokers' duplicates , anything to necessitate an answer . 
He is very severe upon 'the pampered minion of fortune , who refused him the half sovereign referred to in the enclosure number two but he knows me better . 
He writes in a variety of styles sometimes in low spirits sometimes quite jocosely . 
When he is in low spirits he writes down hill and repeats words these little indications being expressive of the perturbation of his mind . 
When he is more vivacious , he is frank with me he is quite the agreeable rattle . 
I know what human nature is , who better ? Well ! He had a little money once , and he ran through it as many men have done before him . 
of two sovereigns , to be repaid next Tuesday six weeks , before twelve at noon . 
He has enlisted into the Company's service , and is off directly but he wants a cheese . 
He is informed by the serjeant that it is essential to his prospects in the regiment that he should take out a single Gloucester cheese , weighing from twelve to fifteen pounds . 
Eight or nine shillings would buy it . 
This sportive fancy he expiated in the House of Correction . 
, in which he gave me to understand that , being resolved to earn an honest livelihood , he had been travelling about the country with a cart of crockery . 
That he had been doing pretty well until the day before , when his horse had dropped down dead near Chatham , in Kent . 
That this had reduced him to the unpleasant necessity of getting into the shafts himself , and drawing the cart of crockery to London a somewhat exhausting pull of thirty miles . 
introduced himself as a literary gentleman in the last extremity of distress . 
A little while afterwards he was in some other strait . 
I think Mrs. Southcote , his wife , was in extremity and we adjusted that point too . 
A little while afterwards he had taken a new house , and was going headlong to ruin for want of a water butt . 
I had my misgivings about the water butt , and did not reply to that epistle . 
But a little while afterwards , I had reason to feel penitent for my neglect . 
, and I presented myself at a London Police Office with my testimony against him . 
Next day comes to me a friend of mine , the governor of a large prison . 
'Why did you ever go to the Police Office against that man , says he , 'without coming to me first ? I know all about him and his frauds . 
The garrison being well provisioned , I remained within the walls and he raised the siege at midnight with a prodigious alarum on the bell . 
The Begging Letter Writer often has an extensive circle of acquaintance . 
Whole pages of the 'Court Guide' are ready to be references for him . 
Noblemen and gentlemen write to say there never was such a man for probity and virtue . 
They have known him time out of mind , and there is nothing they wouldn't do for him . 
It is to be remarked of his trade that it is a very fascinating one . 
He never leaves it and those who are near to him become smitten with a love of it , too , and sooner or later set up for themselves . 
He employs a messenger man , woman , or child . 
That messenger is certain ultimately to become an independent Begging Letter Writer . 
His sons and daughters succeed to his calling , and write begging letters when he is no more . 
He throws off the infection of begging letter writing , like the contagion of disease . 
What Sydney Smith so happily called 'the dangerous luxury of dishonesty' is more tempting , and more catching , it would seem , in this instance than in any other . 
He always belongs to a Corresponding Society of Begging Letter Writers . 
Any one who will , may ascertain this fact . 
Give money to day in recognition of a begging letter , no matter how unlike a common begging letter , and for the next fortnight you will have a rush of such communications . 
It is of little use inquiring into the Begging Letter Writer's circumstances . 
but apparent misery is always a part of his trade , and real misery very often is , in the intervals of spring lamb and early asparagus . 
It is naturally an incident of his dissipated and dishonest life . 
That the calling is a successful one , and that large sums of money are gained by it , must be evident to anybody who reads the Police Reports of such cases . 
But , prosecutions are of rare occurrence , relatively to the extent to which the trade is carried on . 
in the aversion people feel to exhibit themselves as having been imposed upon , or as having weakly gratified their consciences with a lazy , flimsy substitute for the noblest of all virtues . 
, and never once taken up yet , who , within these twelvemonths , has been probably the most audacious and the most successful swindler that even this trade has ever known . 
His experience is a type of the experience of many some on a smaller , some on an infinitely larger scale . 
All may judge of the soundness or unsoundness of his conclusions from it . 
That of all wrongs , this was the first mighty wrong the Pestilence warned us to set right . 
The poor never write these letters . 
Nothing could be more unlike their habits . 
The writers are public robbers and we who support them are parties to their depredations . 
There is a plain remedy , and it is in our own hands . 
We must resolve , at any sacrifice of feeling , to be deaf to such appeals , and crush the trade . 
There are degrees in murder . 
That is the first great end we have to set against this miserable imposition . 
Physical life respected , moral life comes next . 
What will not content a Begging Letter Writer for a week , would educate a score of children for a year . 
Let us give all we can let us give more than ever . 
Let us do all we can let us do more than ever . 
But let us give , and do , with a high purpose not to endow the scum of the earth , to its own greater corruption , with the offals of our duty . 
A CHILD'S DREAM OF A STAR THERE was once a child , and he strolled about a good deal , and thought of a number of things . 
He had a sister , who was a child too , and his constant companion . 
These two used to wonder all day long . 
There was one clear shining star that used to come out in the sky before the rest , near the church spire , above the graves . 
It was larger and more beautiful , they thought , than all the others , and every night they watched for it , standing hand in hand at a window . 
Whoever saw it first cried out , 'I see the star ! And often they cried out both together , knowing so well when it would rise , and where . 
And the star , opening , showed him a great world of light , where many more such angels waited to receive them . 
But , there were many angels who did not go with them , and among them one he knew . 
The patient face that once had lain upon the bed was glorified and radiant , but his heart found out his sister among all the host . 
His sister's angel lingered near the entrance of the star , and said to the leader among those who had brought the people thither 'Is my brother come ? And he said 'No . 
Said his sister's angel to the leader 'Is my brother come ? And he said , 'Not that one , but another . 
He grew to be a young man , and was busy at his books when an old servant came to him and said 'Thy mother is no more . 
I bring her blessing on her darling son ! Again at night he saw the star , and all that former company . 
Said his sister's angel to the leader . 
Said his sister's angel to the leader 'Is my brother come ? And he said , 'Nay , but his maiden daughter . 
Thus the child came to be an old man , and his once smooth face was wrinkled , and his steps were slow and feeble , and his back was bent . 
And he said , 'I am . 
My age is falling from me like a garment , and I move towards the star as a child . 
The place seems to respond . 
Sky , sea , beach , and village , lie as still before us as if they were sitting for the picture . 
It is dead low water . 
have not an inch of water within a quarter of a mile of them , and turn , exhausted , on their sides , like faint fish of an antediluvian species . 
In truth , our watering place itself has been left somewhat high and dry by the tide of years . 
, nobody did believe in the little lame old gentleman , or even in the Honourable Miss Peepy , long deceased . 
As to subscription balls in the Assembly Rooms of our watering place now , red hot cannon balls are less improbable . 
After that , the performer instantly departs with maledictory expressions , and is never heard of more . 
But the most wonderful feature of our Assembly Rooms , is , that an annual sale of 'Fancy and other China , is announced here with mysterious constancy and perseverance . 
Attached to our Assembly Rooms is a library . 
There is a wheel of fortune in it , but it is rusty and dusty , and never turns . 
We are rather sanguine , now , that the raffle will come off next year . 
Down the street , there is a toy ship of considerable burden , in the same condition . 
This is the library for the Minerva Press . 
If you want that kind of reading , come to our watering place . 
The leaves of the romances , reduced to a condition very like curl paper , are thickly studded with notes in pencil sometimes complimentary , sometimes jocose . 
Some of these commentators , like commentators in a more extensive way , quarrel with one another . 
She has left marginal notes on the pages , as 'Is not this truly touching ? J. M. 'How thrilling ! J. M. 'Entranced here by the Magician's potent spell . 
It reminds her of another hero . 
Whenever you come here , and see harnessed donkeys eating clover out of barrows drawn completely across a narrow thoroughfare , you may be quite sure you are in our High Street . 
Our Police you may know by his uniform , likewise by his never on any account interfering with anybody especially the tramps and vagabonds . 
In our fancy shops we have a capital collection of damaged goods , among which the flies of countless summers 'have been roaming . 
Diminutive spades , barrows , and baskets , are our principal articles of commerce but even they don't look quite new somehow . 
They always seem to have been offered and refused somewhere else , before they came down to our watering place . 
Yet , it must not be supposed that our watering place is an empty place , deserted by all visitors except a few staunch persons of approved fidelity . 
On the contrary , the chances are that if you came down here in August or September , you wouldn't find a house to lay your head in . 
As to finding either house or lodging of which you could reduce the terms , you could scarcely engage in a more hopeless pursuit . 
For all this , you are to observe that every season is the worst season ever known , and that the householding population of our watering place are ruined regularly every autumn . 
They are like the farmers , in regard that it is surprising how much ruin they will bear . 
We have an excellent hotel capital baths , warm , cold , and shower first rate bathing machines and as good butchers , bakers , and grocers , as heart could desire . 
They all do business , it is to be presumed , from motives of philanthropy but it is quite certain that they are all being ruined . 
Their interest in strangers , and their politeness under ruin , bespeak their amiable nature . 
You would say so , if you only saw the baker helping a new comer to find suitable apartments . 
So far from being at a discount as to company , we are in fact what would be popularly called rather a nobby place . 
Some tip top 'Nobbs' come down occasionally even Dukes and Duchesses . 
We have known such carriages to blaze among the donkey chaises , as made beholders wink . 
, may be seen very much out of drawing , in rooms far too small for their fine figures , looking discontentedly out of little back windows into bye streets . 
You have no idea how they take it to heart . 
We have a pier a queer old wooden pier , fortunately without the slightest pretensions to architecture , and very picturesque in consequence . 
Looking at them , you would say that surely these must be the laziest boatmen in the world . 
They lounge about , in obstinate and inflexible pantaloons that are apparently made of wood , the whole season through . 
Whether talking together about the shipping in the Channel , or gruffly unbending over mugs of beer at the public house , you would consider them the slowest of men . 
The chances are a thousand to one that you might stay here for ten seasons , and never see a boatman in a hurry . 
He has the appearance of perpetually strolling running is too inappropriate a word to be thought of to seed . 
The only subject on which he seems to feel any approach to enthusiasm , is pitch . 
Do not judge him by deceitful appearances . 
These are among the bravest and most skilful mariners that exist . 
Cavillers may object that they chiefly live upon the salvage of valuable cargoes . 
So they do , and God knows it is no great living that they get out of the deadly risks they run . 
But put that hope of gain aside . 
In the afternoons , you see no end of salt and sandy little boots drying on upper window sills . 
The sands are the children's great resort . 
It is curious , too , to observe a natural ease of approach that there seems to be between the children and the boatmen . 
They mutually make acquaintance , and take individual likings , without any help . 
They are handy fellows neat about their houses industrious at gardening would get on with their wives , one thinks , in a desert island and people it , too , soon . 
, we would give him a ship to morrow . 
We have a church , by the by , of course a hideous temple of flint , like a great petrified haystack . 
Under a new regulation , he has yielded the church of our watering place to another clergyman . 
Upon the whole we get on in church well . 
, but it soon goes off , and then we get on very well . 
There are two dissenting chapels , besides , in our small watering place being in about the proportion of a hundred and twenty guns to a yacht . 
But the dissension that has torn us lately , has not been a religious one . 
It has arisen on the novel question of Gas . 
Our watering place has been convulsed by the agitation , Gas or No Gas . 
It was never reasoned why No Gas , but there was a great No Gas party . 
Broadsides were printed and stuck about a startling circumstance in our watering place . 
in our watering place , was to contravene the great decree . 
Whether by these thunderbolts or not , the No Gas party were defeated and in this present season we have had our handful of shops illuminated for the first time . 
Other population than we have indicated , our watering place has none . 
But they all go soon , and leave us to ourselves again . 
We once had a travelling Circus and Wombwell's Menagerie at the same time . 
We have a fine sea , wholesome for all people profitable for the body , profitable for the mind . 
The poet's words are sometimes on its awful lips And the stately ships go on To their haven under the hill But O for the touch of a vanish'd hand . 
Yet it is not always so , for the speech of the sea is various , and wants not abundant resource of cheerfulness , hope , and lusty encouragement . 
And since I have been idling at the window here , the tide has risen . 
He returned , altogether uncheered by the bright example , 'Ah , Heaven , but I am always sick , even when it is IMpossible to be so . 
sea weather , the act of arrival at our French watering place from England is difficult to be achieved with dignity . 
Several little circumstances combine to render the visitor an object of humiliation . 
We were coming to the third place . 
The British mind and body becoming heated by these fantasies , delirious answers are made to inquiries , and extravagant actions performed . 
If friendless and unrescued , he is generally put into a railway omnibus and taken to Paris . 
But , our French watering place , when it is once got into , is a very enjoyable place . 
It has a varied and beautiful country around it , and many characteristic and agreeable things within it . 
It is more picturesque and quaint than half the innocent places which tourists , following their leader like sheep , have made impostors of . 
Bilkins never wrote about it , never pointed out anything to be seen in it , never measured anything in it , always left it alone . 
If they walked for an appetite , they doubtless lived en pension were contracted for otherwise their poverty would have made it a rash action . 
They spoke little to each other , and looked as if they might have been politically discontented if they had had vitality enough . 
It is very agreeable on an idle summer morning to pursue this market stream from the hill top . 
Early in the afternoon , the whole course of the stream is dry . 
We have another market in our French watering place that is to say , a few wooden hutches in the open street , down by the Port devoted to fish . 
, are among the most picturesque people we ever encountered . 
They have not only a quarter of their own in the town itself , but they occupy whole villages of their own on the neighbouring cliffs . 
Their churches and chapels are their own they consort with one another , they intermarry among themselves , their customs are their own , and their costume is their own and never changes . 
Moreover it is to be observed that these are an industrious people , and a domestic people , and an honest people . 
But we can never henceforth separate our French watering place from our own landlord of two summers , M. Loyal Devasseur , citizen and town councillor . 
Permit us to have the pleasure of presenting M. Loyal Devasseur . 
He owns a compact little estate of some twenty or thirty acres on a lofty hill side , and on it he has built two country houses , which he lets furnished . 
They are by many degrees the best houses that are so let near our French watering place we have had the honour of living in both , and can testify . 
we went three miles straight on end in search of the bridge of Austerlitz which we afterwards found to be immediately outside the window . 
It will be perceived that M. Loyal is a staunch admirer of the great Napoleon . 
Medallions of him , portraits of him , busts of him , pictures of him , are thickly sprinkled all over the property . 
Yet M. Loyal is not a man of mere castles in the air , or , as he would say , in Spain . 
He has a specially practical , contriving , clever , skilful eye and hand . 
He unites French elegance and English comfort , in a happy manner quite his own . 
And , into whatsoever strange nook M. Loyal's genius penetrates , it , in that nook , infallibly constructs a cupboard and a row of pegs . 
In either of our houses , we could have put away the knapsacks and hung up the hats of the whole regiment of Guides . 
Aforetime , M. Loyal was a tradesman in the town . 
You can transact business with no present tradesman in the town , and give your card 'chez M. Loyal , but a brighter face shines upon you directly . 
They rub their hands and laugh when they speak of him . 
Ah , but he is such a good child , such a brave boy , such a generous spirit , that Monsieur Loyal ! It is the honest truth . 
M. Loyal's nature is the nature of a gentleman . 
He is of a highly convivial temperament , and his hospitality is unbounded . 
Billet a soldier on him , and he is delighted . 
Five and thirty soldiers had M. Loyal billeted on him this present summer , and they all got fat and red faced in two days . 
It became a legend among the troops that whosoever got billeted on M. Loyal rolled in clover and so it fell out that the fortunate man who drew the billet 'M . 
Loyal Devasseur' always leaped into the air , though in heavy marching order . 
M. Loyal cannot bear to admit anything that might seem by any implication to disparage the military profession . 
Pardon ! said Monsieur Loyal , rather wincing . 
And they share their supper with those soldiers . 
It is not possible that they could eat alone . 
'And what allowance do they get for this ? said we . 
When it is impossible to deny that it is now raining in torrents , he says it will be fine charming magnificent to morrow . 
It is never hot on the Property , he contends . 
Likewise it is never cold . 
The flowers , he says , come out , delighting to grow there it is like Paradise this morning it is like the Garden of Eden . 
He is a little fanciful in his language smilingly observing of Madame Loyal , when she is absent at vespers , that she is 'gone to her salvation' allee a son salut . 
He has a great enjoyment of tobacco , but nothing would induce him to continue smoking face to face with a lady . 
His short black pipe immediately goes into his breast pocket , scorches his blouse , and nearly sets him on fire . 
Good M. Loyal ! Under blouse or waistcoat , he carries one of the gentlest hearts that beat in a nation teeming with gentle people . 
He has had losses , and has been at his best under them . 
Long ago a family of children and a mother were left in one of his houses without money , a whole year . 
'The rent , M. Loyal ? 'Eh ! well ! The rent ! M. Loyal shakes his head . 
'Le bon Dieu , says M. Loyal presently , 'will recompense me , and he laughs and smokes his pipe of peace . 
May he smoke it on the Property , and not be recompensed , these fifty years ! There are public amusements in our French watering place , or it would not be French . 
They are very popular , and very cheap . 
M. Feroce , our own particular friend in the bathing line , is one of these . 
How he ever came by his name we cannot imagine . 
He is as gentle and polite a man as M. Loyal Devasseur himself immensely stout withal and of a beaming aspect . 
It is only on very great occasions that M. Feroce displays his shining honours . 
As to the boarding houses of our French watering place , they are Legion , and would require a distinct treatise . 
It is not without a sentiment of national pride that we believe them to contain more bores from the shores of Albion than all the clubs in London . 
They believe everything that is impossible and nothing that is true . 
They carry rumours , and ask questions , and make corrections and improvements on one another , staggering to the human intellect . 
The English form a considerable part of the population of our French watering place , and are deservedly addressed and respected in many ways . 
Drumming and trumpeting of course go on for ever in our French watering place . 
Few just men , not immoderately bilious , could see them in their recreations without very much respecting the character that is so easily , so harmlessly , and so simply , pleased . 
I can scarcely imagine a more terrible revenge . 
I should haunt him , by this means , night and day . 
I do not mean to say that I would publish his secret , in red letters two feet high , for all the town to read I would darkly refer to it . 
It should be between him , and me , and the Posting Bill . 
Say , for example , that , at a certain period of his life , my enemy had surreptitiously possessed himself of a key . 
I would then embark my capital in the lock business , and conduct that business on the advertising principle . 
In all my placards and advertisements , I would throw up the line SECRET KEYS . 
Thus , if my enemy passed an uninhabited house , he would see his conscience glaring down on him from the parapets , and peeping up at him from the cellars . 
If he took a dead wall in his walk , it would be alive with reproaches . 
If he sought refuge in an omnibus , the panels thereof would become Belshazzar's palace to him . 
If he took boat , in a wild endeavour to escape , he would see the fatal words lurking under the arches of the bridges over the Thames . 
If he walked the streets with downcast eyes , he would recoil from the very stones of the pavement , made eloquent by lamp black lithograph . 
If he drove or rode , his way would be blocked up by enormous vans , each proclaiming the same words over and over again from its whole extent of surface . 
Until , having gradually grown thinner and paler , and having at last totally rejected food , he would miserably perish , and I should be revenged . 
, an old warehouse which rotting paste and rotting paper had brought down to the condition of an old cheese . 
It would have been impossible to say , on the most conscientious survey , how much of its front was brick and mortar , and how much decaying and decayed plaster . 
It was so thickly encrusted with fragments of bills , that no ship's keel after a long voyage could be half so foul . 
All traces of the broken windows were billed out , the doors were billed across , the water spout was billed over . 
Below the rusty cellar grating , crumpled remnants of old bills torn down , rotted away in wasting heaps of fallen leaves . 
I thought the building could never even be pulled down , but in one adhesive heap of rottenness and poster . 
As to getting in I don't believe that if the Sleeping Beauty and her Court had been so billed up , the young Prince could have done it . 
Or to have injured MADAME TUSSAUD , and undergo a similar retribution . 
Have I a dark remembrance associated with any gentlemanly garments , bespoke or ready made ? MOSES and SON are on my track . 
Paul's Churchyard' ? Then may I enjoy life , and be happy . 
, a solemn procession of three advertising vans , of first class dimensions , each drawn by a very little horse . 
The first man , whose hair I might naturally have expected to see standing on end , scratched his head one of the smoothest I ever beheld with profound indifference . 
At the same time , I thought I smelt tobacco . 
The latter impression passed quickly from me the former remained . 
It turned into Leadenhall market , and halted at a public house . 
I then beheld , reclining on his back upon the floor , on a kind of mattress or divan , a little man in a shooting coat . 
The exclamation 'Dear me' which irresistibly escaped my lips caused him to sit upright , and survey me . 
He had something of a sporting way with him . 
'I beg your pardon , said I , when the removed person of the driver again admitted of my presenting my face at the portal . 
When things are flat , I take a ride sometimes , and enjoy myself . 
I am the inventor of these wans . 
His pipe was now alight . 
He drank his beer all at once , and he smoked and he smiled at me . 
'It was a great idea ! said I. 'Not so bad , returned the little man , with the modesty of merit . 
'Might I be permitted to inscribe your name upon the tablets of my memory ? I asked . 
'There's not much odds in the name , returned the little man , no name particular I am the King of the Bill Stickers . 
He likewise gave me to understand that there was a Lord Mayor of the Bill Stickers , whose genius was chiefly exercised within the limits of the city . 
He made some allusion , also , to an inferior potentate , called 'Turkey legs but I did not understand that this gentleman was invested with much power . 
I rather inferred that he derived his title from some peculiarity of gait , and that it was of an honorary character . 
'My father , pursued the King of the Bill Stickers , 'was Engineer , Beadle , and Bill Sticker to the parish of St . 
Andrew's , Holborn , in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty . 
My father stuck bills at the time of the riots of London . 
'You must be acquainted with the whole subject of bill sticking , from that time to the present ! said I. 'Pretty well so , was the answer . 
'Excuse me , said I 'but I am a sort of collector ''Not Income tax ? cried His Majesty , hastily removing his pipe from his lips . 
'No , no , said I. 'Water rate ? said His Majesty . 
'No , no , I returned . 
'Gas ? Assessed ? Sewers ? said His Majesty . 
'You misunderstand me , I replied , soothingly . 
'Not that sort of collector at all a collector of facts . 
His Majesty , graciously handing me a little three legged stool on which I took my seat in a corner , inquired if I smoked . 
'I do that is , I can , I answered . 
'Pipe and a screw ! said His Majesty to the attendant charioteer . 
, I advocated moisture , and begged the Sovereign of the Bill Stickers to name his usual liquor , and to concede to me the privilege of paying for it . 
We were also furnished with a tumbler , and I was provided with a pipe . 
As I looked upward , I felt , I should imagine , like the Astronomer Royal . 
As I looked down from the clouds and caught his royal eye , he understood my reflections . 
'And here you repose and think ? said I. 'And think , said he , 'of posters walls and hoardings . 
We were both silent , contemplating the vastness of the subject . 
I remembered a surprising fancy of dear THOMAS HOOD'S , and wondered whether this monarch ever sighed to repair to the great wall of China , and stick bills all over it . 
When my father was Engineer , Beadle , and Bill Sticker to the parish of St . 
Andrew's , Holborn , he employed women to post bills for him . 
He employed women to post bills at the time of the riots of London . 
He died at the age of seventy five year , and was buried by the murdered Eliza Grimwood , over in the Waterloo Road . 
As this was somewhat in the nature of a royal speech , I listened with deference and silently . 
was by means of a piece of wood which they called a 'dabber . 
They used sometimes to be stationed in large towns for five or six months together , distributing the schemes to all the houses in the town . 
And then there were more caricature wood block engravings for posting bills than there are at the present time , the principal printers , at that time , of posting bills being Messrs . 
Evans and Ruffy , of Budge Row Thoroughgood and Whiting , of the present day and Messrs . 
Gye and Balne , Gracechurch Street , City . 
The largest bills printed at that period were a two sheet double crown and when they commenced printing four sheet bills , two bill stickers would work together . 
All this His Majesty delivered in a gallant manner posting it , as it were , before me , in a great proclamation . 
Here he instantly rushed again into the scroll . 
Since the abolishing of the State Lottery all that good feeling has gone , and nothing but jealousy exists , through the rivalry of each other . 
Several bill sticking companies have started , but have failed . 
The first party that started a company was twelve year ago but what was left of the old school and their dependants joined together and opposed them . 
The last company that started , took advantage of the New Police Act , and hired of Messrs . 
We then took possession of the hoarding in Trafalgar Square but Messrs . 
, puffed at his pipe , and took some rum and water . 
I embraced the opportunity of asking how many divisions the art and mystery of bill sticking comprised ? He replied , three auctioneers' bill sticking , theatrical bill sticking , general bill sticking . 
'The auctioneers' porters , said the King , 'who do their bill sticking , are mostly respectable and intelligent , and generally well paid for their work , whether in town or country . 
The price paid by the principal auctioneers for country work is nine shillings per day that is , seven shillings for day's work , one shilling for lodging , and one for paste . 
Town work is five shillings a day , including paste . 
As to that row I have mentioned , that grew out of competition , conducted in an uncompromising spirit . 
We went there , early one morning , to stick bills and to black wash their bills if we were interfered with . 
We WERE interfered with , and I gave the word for laying on the wash . 
It WAS laid on pretty brisk and we were all taken to Queen Square but they couldn't fine ME . 
I knew that , with a bright smile 'I'd only give directions I was only the General . 
Charmed with this monarch's affability , I inquired if he had ever hired a hoarding himself . 
'Hired a large one , he replied , 'opposite the Lyceum Theatre , when the buildings was there . 
Paid thirty pound for it let out places on it , and called it The External Paper Hanging Station . 
Ah ! said His Majesty thoughtfully , as he filled the glass , 'Bill stickers have a deal to contend with . 
The bill sticking clause was got into the Police Act by a member of Parliament that employed me at his election . 
The clause is pretty stiff respecting where bills go but HE didn't mind where HIS bills went . 
'Mine ! said His Majesty . 
'I was the first that ever stuck a bill under a bridge ! Imitators soon rose up , of course . 
When don't they ? But they stuck 'em at low water , and the tide came and swept the bills clean away . 
I knew that ! The King laughed . 
'What may be the name of that instrument , like an immense fishing rod , I inquired , 'with which bills are posted on high places ? 'The joints , returned His Majesty . 
'Now , we use the joints where formerly we used ladders as they do still in country places . 
'was playing in Liverpool , another bill sticker and me were at it together on the wall outside the Clarence Dock me with the joints him on a ladder . 
Lord ! I had my bill up , right over his head , yards above him , ladder and all , while he was crawling to his work . 
The people going in and out of the docks , stood and laughed ! It's about thirty years since the joints come in . 
'Are there any bill stickers who can't read ? I took the liberty of inquiring . 
'Some , said the King . 
'But they know which is the right side up'ards of their work . 
They keep it as it's given out to 'em . 
I have seen a bill or so stuck wrong side up'ards . 
Our discourse sustained some interruption at this point , by the procession of cars occasioning a stoppage of about three quarters of a mile in length , as nearly as I could judge . 
His Majesty , however , entreating me not to be discomposed by the contingent uproar , smoked with great placidity , and surveyed the firmament . 
When we were again in motion , I begged to be informed what was the largest poster His Majesty had ever seen . 
The King replied , 'A thirty six sheet poster . 
Over and above which change , I bethought myself that the custom of advertising in newspapers had greatly increased . 
, the Royal Exchange , c . 
, had of late years reduced the number of advantageous posting places . 
Bill Stickers at present rather confine themselves to districts , than to particular descriptions of work . 
would stick to the Surrey side another would make a beat of the West end . 
He considered that the trade was overdone with competition , and observed speaking of his subjects , 'There are too many of 'em . 
It was of no use giving a man a Drury Lane bill this week and not next . 
His Majesty regarded the passion for orders , as one of the most unappeasable appetites of human nature . 
to the presentation of your orders at Theatre doors , by individuals who were 'too shakery' to derive intellectual profit from the entertainments , and who brought a scandal on you . 
I am not aware that I have been betrayed into any alteration or suppression . 
I must do the King the justice to say that it was I , and not he , who closed the dialogue . 
In addition to these sensations , I felt extremely unwell . 
Of this , I cannot be sure . 
I am only sure that I was not affected , either by the smoke , or the rum and water . 
The procession had then disappeared . 
I have since looked anxiously for the King in several other cars , but I have not yet had the happiness of seeing His Majesty . 
MEEK , OF A SON MY name is Meek . 
I am , in fact , Mr. Meek . 
That son is mine and Mrs. Meek's . 
When I saw the announcement in the Times , I dropped the paper . 
I had put it in , myself , and paid for it , but it looked so noble that it overpowered me . 
As soon as I could compose my feelings , I took the paper up to Mrs. Meek's bedside . 
, 'you are now a public character . 
No reduction was made on taking that quantity . 
It is scarcely necessary for me to say , that our child had been expected . 
In fact , it had been expected , with comparative confidence , for some months . 
Mrs. Meek's mother , who resides with us of the name of Bigby had made every preparation for its admission to our circle . 
I hope and believe I am a quiet man . 
I KNOW I am a quiet man . 
My constitution is tremulous , my voice was never loud , and , in point of stature , I have been from infancy , small . 
I have the greatest respect for Maria Jane's Mama . 
She is a most remarkable woman . 
I honour Maria Jane's Mama . 
In my opinion she would storm a town , single handed , with a hearth broom , and carry it . 
I have never known her to yield any point whatever , to mortal man . 
She is calculated to terrify the stoutest heart . 
Still but I will not anticipate . 
The first intimation I had , of any preparations being in progress , on the part of Maria Jane's Mama , was one afternoon , several months ago . 
I came home earlier than usual from the office , and , proceeding into the dining room , found an obstruction behind the door , which prevented it from opening freely . 
It was an obstruction of a soft nature . 
On looking in , I found it to be a female . 
The female in question stood in the corner behind the door , consuming Sherry Wine . 
From the nutty smell of that beverage pervading the apartment , I have no doubt she was consuming a second glassful . 
She wore a black bonnet of large dimensions , and was copious in figure . 
The expression of her countenance was severe and discontented . 
I immediately withdrew , of course . 
I was rather hurt , but I made no remark . 
Whether it was that I showed a lowness of spirits after dinner , in consequence of feeling that I seemed to intrude , I cannot say . 
We were happy after her first appearance we were sometimes exceedingly so . 
But , whenever the parlour door was opened , and 'Mrs . 
I could not bear Mrs. Prodgit's look . 
I felt that I was far from wanted , and had no business to exist in Mrs. Prodgit's presence . 
Between Maria Jane's Mama , and Mrs. Prodgit , there was a dreadful , secret , understanding a dark mystery and conspiracy , pointing me out as a being to be shunned . 
I appeared to have done something that was evil . 
The length of the councils that were held with Mrs. Prodgit , under these circumstances , I will not attempt to describe . 
taking entire possession of my unassuming establishment . 
Huffing and snubbing , prey upon my feelings but , I can bear them without complaint . 
The voice of Nature , however , cries aloud in behalf of Augustus George , my infant son . 
It is for him that I wish to utter a few plaintive household words . 
I am not at all angry I am mild but miserable . 
with systematically forcing Castor Oil on my innocent son , from the first hour of his birth . 
I beheld my son Augustus George in Mrs. Prodgit's hands , and on Mrs. Prodgit's knee , being dressed . 
Trailing from Mrs. Prodgit's lap , on the floor , was a long narrow roller or bandage I should say of several yards in extent . 
In this tourniquet , he passes the present phase of his existence . 
Can I know it , and smile ! I fear I have been betrayed into expressing myself warmly , but I feel deeply . 
Not for myself for Augustus George . 
entirely alienates Maria Jane's affections from me , and interposes an impassable barrier between us . 
I do not complain of being made of no account . 
I do not want to be of any account . 
, and I claim that he should be treated with some remote reference to Nature . 
In my opinion , Mrs. Prodgit is , from first to last , a convention and a superstition . 
But how do I know that she might not have brought them up much better ? Maria Jane herself is far from strong , and is subject to headaches , and nervous indigestion . 
Besides which , I learn from the statistical tables that one child in five dies within the first year of its life and one child in three , within the fifth . 
That don't look as if we could never improve in these particulars , I think ! P. P. S. Augustus George is in convulsions . 
LYING AWAKE 'MY uncle lay with his eyes half closed , and his nightcap drawn almost down to his nose . 
Thus , that delightful writer , WASHINGTON IRVING , in his Tales of a Traveller . 
When you begin to feel the cold air unpleasant , then return to your bed , and you will soon fall asleep , and your sleep will be sweet and pleasant . 
playing Macbeth , and heard him apostrophising 'the death of each day's life , as I have heard him many a time , in the days that are gone . 
I WILL think about Sleep . 
I am determined to think about Sleep . 
I must hold the word Sleep , tight and fast , or I shall be off at a tangent in half a second . 
I feel myself unaccountably straying , already , into Clare Market . 
Her Majesty has fallen , many thousands of times , from that same Tower , which I claim a right to tumble off now and then . 
BATHE could persuade me were quite adapted to the occasion . 
Winking Charley has been repeatedly tried in a worse condition . 
Her Majesty is no stranger to a vault or firmament , of a sort of floorcloth , with an indistinct pattern distantly resembling eyes , which occasionally obtrudes itself on her repose . 
Neither am I. Neither is Winking Charley . 
It is probable that we have all three committed murders and hidden bodies . 
It lays a disagreeable train . 
I must resolve to think of something on the voluntary principle . 
The balloon ascents of this last season . 
They will do to think about , while I lie awake , as well as anything else . 
In connexion with which dismal spectacle , I recall this curious fantasy of the mind . 
without presenting it with the two figures still hanging in the morning air . 
The balloon ascents of last season . 
Let me reckon them up . 
There were the horse , the bull , the parachute , and the tumbler hanging on chiefly by his toes , I believe below the car . 
Very wrong , indeed , and decidedly to be stopped . 
But , in connexion with these and similar dangerous exhibitions , it strikes me that that portion of the public whom they entertain , is unjustly reproached . 
Their pleasure is in the difficulty overcome . 
They do not go to see the adventurer vanquished , but triumphant . 
A very unpleasant creature indeed , to come into my mind unbidden , as I lie awake . 
The balloon ascents of last season . 
I must return to the balloons . 
Why did the bleeding man start out of them ? Never mind if I inquire , he will be back again . 
I will explain this seeming paradox of mine . 
Take the case of a Christmas Pantomime . 
What shall I think of ? The late brutal assaults . 
I strongly question the expediency of advocating the revival of whipping for those crimes . 
It is a natural and generous impulse to be indignant at the perpetration of inconceivable brutality , but I doubt the whipping panacea gravely . 
It is bad for a people to be familiarised with such punishments . 
The whip is a very contagious kind of thing , and difficult to confine within one set of bounds . 
I had proceeded thus far , when I found I had been lying awake so long that the very dead began to wake too , and to crowd into my thoughts most sorrowfully . 
THE GHOST OF ART I AM a bachelor , residing in rather a dreary set of chambers in the Temple . 
They are situated in a square court of high houses , which would be a complete well , but for the want of water and the absence of a bucket . 
I live at the top of the house , among the tiles and sparrows . 
Like the little man in the nursery story , I live by myself , and all the bread and cheese I get which is not much I put upon a shelf . 
I need scarcely add , perhaps , that I am in love , and that the father of my charming Julia objects to our union . 
I mention these little particulars as I might deliver a letter of introduction . 
The reader is now acquainted with me , and perhaps will condescend to listen to my narrative . 
In my 'top set' I hear the wind howl on a winter night , when the man on the ground floor believes it is perfectly still weather . 
make the horrors of the staircase visible , deepen the gloom which generally settles on my soul when I go home at night . 
I am in the Law , but not of it . 
I can't exactly make out what it means . 
from ten to four and when I go out of Court , I don't know whether I am standing on my wig or my boots . 
as if there were too much talk and too much law as if some grains of truth were started overboard into a tempestuous sea of chaff . 
All this may make me mystical . 
Still , I am confident that what I am going to describe myself as having seen and heard , I actually did see and hear . 
It is necessary that I should observe that I have a great delight in pictures . 
I am no painter myself , but I have studied pictures and written about them . 
I go to all the Modern Exhibitions every season , and of course I revere the Royal Academy . 
I stand by its forty Academical articles almost as firmly as I stand by the thirty nine Articles of the Church of England . 
I am convinced that in neither case could there be , by any rightful possibility , one article more or less . 
It is now exactly three years three years ago , this very month since I went from Westminster to the Temple , one Thursday afternoon , in a cheap steamboat . 
The sky was black , when I imprudently walked on board . 
It began to thunder and lighten immediately afterwards , and the rain poured down in torrents . 
It was at this moment that I first beheld the terrible Being , who is the subject of my present recollections . 
He looked up at the rain , and then oh Heaven ! he became Saint John . 
The frightful suspicion that I was becoming deranged , returned upon me with redoubled force . 
I am conscious of a dreadful inclination that stole upon me , as it thundered and lightened , to grapple with this man , or demon , and plunge him over the side . 
'A what ? said I. 'A Model , he replied . 
'I sets to the profession for a bob a hour . 
The relief which this disclosure gave me , the exquisite delight of the restoration of my confidence in my own sanity , I cannot describe . 
I should have fallen on his neck , but for the consciousness of being observed by the man at the wheel . 
'I am that Model , he rejoined moodily , 'and I wish I was anything else . 
'Say not so , I returned . 
in the act of making the most of his legs . 
'No doubt , said he . 
'And you've seen me along with warses of flowers , and any number of table kivers , and antique cabinets , and warious gammon . 
'Sir ? said I. 'And warious gammon , he repeated , in a louder voice . 
'You might have seen me in armour , too , if you had looked sharp . 
Excited , as it appeared , by a sense of injury , I thought he would never have found an end for the last word . 
But , at length it rolled sullenly away with the thunder . 
'It would be a wonder if it didn't , he said . 
'Do you know what my points are ? 'No , said I. 'My throat and my legs , said he . 
'When I don't set for a head , I mostly sets for a throat and a pair of legs . 
Wouldn't you ? 'Probably , said I , surveying him . 
'Why , it stands to reason , said the Model . 
'Work another week at my legs , and it'll be the same thing . 
You'll make 'em out as knotty and as knobby , at last , as if they was the trunks of two old trees . 
Then , take and stick my legs and throat on to another man's body , and you'll make a reg'lar monster . 
And that's the way the public gets their reg'lar monsters , every first Monday in May , when the Royal Academy Exhibition opens . 
'You are a critic , said I , with an air of deference . 
'I'm in an uncommon ill humour , if that's it , rejoined the Model , with great indignation . 
The gloomy and threatening manner in which he muttered the last words , can never be effaced from my remembrance . 
I asked of myself , what was it that this desperate Being was resolved to grow . 
My breast made no response . 
I ventured to implore him to explain his meaning . 
With a scornful laugh , he uttered this dark prophecy 'I'LL GROW ONE . 
AND , MARK MY WORDS , IT SHALL HAUNT YOU ! We parted in the storm , after I had forced half a crown on his acceptance , with a trembling hand . 
I conclude that something supernatural happened to the steamboat , as it bore his reeking figure down the river but it never got into the papers . 
Two years elapsed , during which I followed my profession without any vicissitudes never holding so much as a motion , of course . 
As I turned into my court , I really thought a thunderbolt would fall , and plough the pavement up . 
Every brick and stone in the place seemed to have an echo of its own for the thunder . 
The waterspouts were overcharged , and the rain came tearing down from the house tops as if they had been mountain tops . 
Mrs. Parkins invariably disregarding all instructions , they were never there . 
Thus it happened that on this occasion I groped my way into my sitting room to find the candle , and came out to light it . 
'I said I'd do it , he observed , in a hollow voice , 'and I have done it . 
May I come in ? 'Misguided creature , what have you done ? I returned . 
'I'll let you know , was his reply , 'if you'll let me in . 
Could it be murder that he had done ? And had he been so successful that he wanted to do it again , at my expense ? I hesitated . 
'May I come in ? said he . 
I inclined my head , with as much presence of mind as I could command , and he followed me into my chambers . 
There , I saw that the lower part of his face was tied up , in what is commonly called a Belcher handkerchief . 
'What is this ? I exclaimed involuntarily , 'and what have you become ? 'I am the Ghost of Art ! said he . 
The effect of these words , slowly uttered in the thunder storm at midnight , was appalling in the last degree . 
More dead than alive , I surveyed him in silence . 
'The German taste came up , said he , 'and threw me out of bread . 
I am ready for the taste now . 
He made his beard a little jagged with his hands , folded his arms , and said , 'Severity ! I shuddered . 
He made his beard flowing on his breast , and , leaning both hands on the staff of a carpet broom which Mrs. Parkins had left among my books , said 'Benevolence . 
The change of sentiment was entirely in the beard . 
The man might have left his face alone , or had no face . 
He lay down , on his back , on my table , and with that action of his head threw up his beard at the chin . 
'That's death ! said he . 
He got off my table and , looking up at the ceiling , cocked his beard a little awry at the same time making it stick out before him . 
'Adoration , or a vow of vengeance , he observed . 
He turned his profile to me , making his upper lip very bulky with the upper part of his beard . 
'Romantic character , said he . 
He looked sideways out of his beard , as if it were an ivy bush . 
He gave it an ingenious twist in the air , and informed me that he was carousing . 
He made it shaggy with his fingers and it was Despair lank and it was avarice tossed it all kinds of ways and it was rage . 
'I am the Ghost of Art , said he . 
'Two bob a day now , and more when it's longer ! Hair's the true expression . 
I looked over the banisters , and I was alone with the thunder . 
Need I add more of my terrific fate ? IT HAS haunted me ever since . 
it fills my soul with terror at the British Institution , it lures young artists on to their destruction . 
Go where I will , the Ghost of Art , eternally working the passions in hair , and expressing everything by beard , pursues me . 
The prediction is accomplished , and the victim has no rest . 
So dreamy is the murmur of the sea below my window , that I may have been here , for anything I know , one hundred years . 
, and apparently not long ago either , that was in the dreariest condition . 
The principal inhabitants had all been changed into old newspapers , and in that form were preserving their window blinds from dust , and wrapping all their smaller household gods in curl papers . 
I walked through gloomy streets where every house was shut up and newspapered , and where my solitary footsteps echoed on the deserted pavements . 
In the Westward streets there was no traffic in the Westward shops , no business . 
The water patterns which the 'Prentices had trickled out on the pavements early in the morning , remained uneffaced by human feet . 
I beheld a Punch's Show leaning against a wall near Park Lane , as if it had fainted . 
It was deserted , and there were none to heed its desolation . 
In Belgrave Square I met the last man an ostler sitting on a post in a ragged red waistcoat , eating straw , and mildewing away . 
Within a quarter of a century , it was a little fishing town , and they do say , that the time was , when it was a little smuggling town . 
I have heard that it was rather famous in the hollands and brandy way , and that coevally with that reputation the lamplighter's was considered a bad life at the Assurance Offices . 
Now , gas and electricity run to the very water's edge , and the South Eastern Railway Company screech at us in the dead of night . 
These are the ways by which , when I run that tub , I shall escape . 
The South Eastern Company have brought Pavilionstone into such vogue , with their tidal trains and splendid steam packets , that a new Pavilionstone is rising up . 
I am , myself , of New Pavilionstone . 
We are a little mortary and limey at present , but we are getting on capitally . 
, shall become a very pretty place . 
cannot too soon shut up the burial ground of the old parish church . 
It is in the midst of us , and Pavilionstone will get no good of it , if it be too long left alone . 
The lion of Pavilionstone is its Great Hotel . 
If you are crossing by the boat at once , you have nothing to do but walk on board and be happy there if you can I can't . 
, hot baths and cold baths . 
Are you going across the Alps , and would you like to air your Italian at our Great Pavilionstone Hotel ? Talk to the Manager always conversational , accomplished , and polite . 
Do you want to be aided , abetted , comforted , or advised , at our Great Pavilionstone Hotel ? Send for the good landlord , and he is your friend . 
Should you , or any one belonging to you , ever be taken ill at our Great Pavilionstone Hotel , you will not soon forget him or his kind wife . 
And when you pay your bill at our Great Pavilionstone Hotel , you will not be put out of humour by anything you find in it . 
A thoroughly good inn , in the days of coaching and posting , was a noble place . 
This is where we shine , in our Pavilionstone Hotel . 
In the case of your being a pictorial artist , desirous of studying at small expense the physiognomies and beards of different nations , come , on receipt of this , to Pavilionstone . 
You shall find all the nations of the earth , and all the styles of shaving and not shaving , hair cutting and hair letting alone , for ever flowing through our hotel . 
Looking at trains , steamboats , sick travellers , and luggage , is our great Pavilionstone recreation . 
We are not strong in other public amusements . 
But public amusements are scarce with us . 
We take more kindly to wax work , especially if it moves in which case it keeps much clearer of the second commandment than when it is still . 
gives us only a night in passing through . 
Nor does the travelling menagerie think us worth a longer visit . 
I brought away five wonderments from this exhibition . 
We are a tidal harbour at Pavilionstone , as indeed I have implied already in my mention of tidal trains . 
But , the moment the tide begins to make , the Pavilionstone Harbour begins to revive . 
It feels the breeze of the rising water before the water comes , and begins to flutter and stir . 
When the little shallow waves creep in , barely overlapping one another , the vanes at the mastheads wake , and become agitated . 
Now , the shipping is afloat , and comes up buoyantly , to look at the wharf . 
Now , the carts that have come down for coals , load away as hard as they can load . 
Now , the steamer smokes immensely , and occasionally blows at the paddle boxes like a vaporous whale greatly disturbing nervous loungers . 
Now , everything in the harbour splashes , dashes , and bobs . 
, that two hundred and eighty seven people are coming . 
Now , the fishing boats that have been out , sail in at the top of the tide . 
Now , the bell goes , and the locomotive hisses and shrieks , and the train comes gliding in , and the two hundred and eighty seven come scuffling out . 
Now , there is not only a tide of water , but a tide of people , and a tide of luggage all tumbling and flowing and bouncing about together . 
are all delighted when she rolls as if she would roll her funnel out , and all are disappointed when she don't . 
And this is the way in which we go on , down at Pavilionstone , every tide . 
OUT OF THE SEASON IT fell to my lot , this last bleak Spring , to find myself in a watering place out of the Season . 
A vicious north east squall blew me into it from foreign parts , and I tarried in it alone for three days , resolved to be exceedingly busy . 
On the first day , I began business by looking for two hours at the sea , and staring the Foreign Militia out of countenance . 
It is a remarkable quality in a watering place out of the season , that everything in it , will and must be looked at . 
I had no previous suspicion of this fatal truth but , the moment I sat down to write , I began to perceive it . 
The pier clock , however , persisting , I felt it necessary to lay down my pen , compare my watch with him , and fall into a grave solicitude about half seconds . 
who were vigilantly scraping at her , all together , inspired me with a terror lest they should scrape her away . 
Presently , a sixth hand brought down two little water casks presently afterwards , a truck came , and delivered a hamper . 
were tumbled aboard the Packet left off roaring , warped out , and made at the white line upon the bar . 
The famous chapter was all but begun now , and would have been quite begun , but for the wind . 
It was blowing stiffly from the east , and it rumbled in the chimney and shook the house . 
A walk of ten miles brought me to a seaside town without a cliff , which , like the town I had come from , was out of the season too . 
Admiral Benbow's cheese was out of the season , but his home made bread was good , and his beer was perfect . 
Mr. Clocker is a grocer over yonder . 
'We were smoking our pipes , and walking up and down the causeway , talking of one thing and talking of another . 
'were hanging about their lugs , waiting while the tide made , as hovellers will . 
Indeed a point of gallantry was involved in my doing so , inasmuch as I had not left France alone , but had come from the prisons of St . 
Madame Roland and I took leave of one another before mid night , and I went to bed full of vast intentions for next day , in connexion with the unparalleled chapter . 
Obviously the best amends that I could make for this remissness was to go and look at it without another moment's delay . 
So altogether as a matter of duty I gave up the magnificent chapter for another day , and sauntered out with my hands in my pockets . 
All the houses and lodgings ever let to visitors , were to let that morning . 
It seemed to have snowed bills with To Let upon them . 
This put me upon thinking what the owners of all those apartments did , out of the season how they employed their time , and occupied their minds . 
They could not be always going to the Methodist chapels , of which I passed one every other minute . 
They must have some other recreation . 
Turning into the town again , I came among the shops , and they were emphatically out of the season . 
The grocers' hot pickles , Harvey's Sauce , Doctor Kitchener's Zest , Anchovy Paste , Dundee Marmalade , and the whole stock of luxurious helps to appetite , were hybernating somewhere underground . 
The china shop had no trifles from anywhere . 
At the Sea bathing Establishment , a row of neat little wooden houses seven or eight feet high , I SAW the proprietor in bed in the shower bath . 
at the top of a hill at least a mile and a half off . 
, as if season or no season were all one to it . 
Astonishing establishment , amazing enigma ! Three other shops were pretty much out of the season , what they were used to be in it . 
Thirdly , the unchangeable shop for the sale of literature that has been left behind . 
Faustus was still going down to very red and yellow perdition , under the superintendence of three green personages of a scaly humour , with excrescential serpents growing out of their blade bones . 
Here , were Little Warblers and Fairburn's Comic Songsters . 
We got on admirably together on the subject of her convent education , and I rose next morning with the full conviction that the day for the great chapter was at last arrived . 
It had fallen calm , however , in the night , and as I sat at breakfast I blushed to remember that I had not yet been on the Downs . 
I a walker , and not yet on the Downs ! Really , on so quiet and bright a morning this must be set right . 
As an essential part of the Whole Duty of Man , therefore , I left the chapter to itself for the present and went on the Downs . 
They were wonderfully green and beautiful , and gave me a good deal to do . 
, and to be equally solicitous as to the cherry orchards . 
, and to accompany eighteenpence which produced a great effect , with moral admonitions which produced none at all . 
There was nothing to offend any one , the good Mr. Baines of Leeds excepted . 
Mrs. B. Wedgington sang to a grand piano . 
Mr. B. Wedgington did the like , and also took off his coat , tucked up his trousers , and danced in clogs . 
Master B. Wedgington , aged ten months , was nursed by a shivering young person in the boxes , and the eye of Mrs. B. Wedgington wandered that way more than once . 
, almost ever since I was out of my time . 
I served my apprenticeship at Deptford , nigh where I was born , and I am a smith by trade . 
I have been called 'Old John' ever since I was nineteen year of age , on account of not having much hair . 
I have been married five and thirty year , come next April . 
I was married on All Fools' Day . 
Let them laugh that will . 
I won a good wife that day , and it was as sensible a day to me as ever I had . 
We have had a matter of ten children , six whereof are living . 
My eldest son is engineer in the Italian steam packet 'Mezzo Giorno , plying between Marseilles and Naples , and calling at Genoa , Leghorn , and Civita Vecchia . 
He was a good workman . 
He invented a many useful little things that brought him in nothing . 
I have two sons doing well at Sydney , New South Wales single , when last heard from . 
He was the best looking . 
is comfortable in her circumstances , but water on the chest . 
, her husband run away from her in the basest manner , and she and her three children live with us . 
The youngest , six year old , has a turn for mechanics . 
I am not a Chartist , and I never was . 
I don't mean to say but what I see a good many public points to complain of , still I don't think that's the way to set them right . 
If I did think so , I should be a Chartist . 
But I don't think so , and I am not a Chartist . 
I read the paper , and hear discussion , at what we call 'a parlour , in Birmingham , and I know many good men and workmen who are Chartists . 
, that I have always been of an ingenious turn . 
I once got twenty pound by a screw , and it's in use now . 
I have been twenty year , off and on , completing an Invention and perfecting it . 
I perfected of it , last Christmas Eve at ten o'clock at night . 
Me and my wife stood and let some tears fall over the Model , when it was done and I brought her in to take a look at it . 
A friend of mine , by the name of William Butcher , is a Chartist . 
He is a good speaker . 
I have wrote down those words from William Butcher's own mouth . 
W. B. delivering them fresh for the aforesaid purpose . 
Now , to my Model again . 
There it was , perfected of , on Christmas Eve , gone nigh a year , at ten o'clock at night . 
I had pulled it to pieces , and made it over again with improvements , I don't know how often . 
There it stood , at last , a perfected Model as aforesaid . 
William Butcher and me had a long talk , Christmas Day , respecting of the Model . 
William said , 'What will you do with it , John ? I said , 'Patent it . 
William said , 'How patent it , John ? I said , 'By taking out a Patent . 
William then delivered that the law of Patent was a cruel wrong . 
William said , 'John , if you make your invention public , before you get a Patent , any one may rob you of the fruits of your hard work . 
You are put in a cleft stick , John . 
I said , 'William Butcher , are you cranky ? You are sometimes cranky . 
William said , 'No , John , I tell you the truth which he then delivered more at length . 
I said to W. B. I would Patent the invention myself . 
, left my wife , his sister , when he died , a legacy of one hundred and twenty eight pound ten , Bank of England Stocks . 
Me and my wife never broke into that money yet . 
We might come to be old and past our work . 
We now agreed to Patent the invention . 
We said we would make a hole in it I mean in the aforesaid money and Patent the invention . 
William Butcher wrote me a letter to Thomas Joy , in London . 
T. J. is a carpenter , six foot four in height , and plays quoits well . 
He lives in Chelsea , London , by the church . 
I got leave from the shop , to be took on again when I come back . 
I am a good workman . 
Not a Teetotaller but never drunk . 
When the Christmas holidays were over , I went up to London by the Parliamentary Train , and hired a lodging for a week with Thomas Joy . 
He has one son gone to sea . 
that the first step to be took , in Patenting the invention , was to prepare a petition unto Queen Victoria . 
William Butcher had delivered similar , and drawn it up . 
William is a ready writer . 
A declaration before a Master in Chancery was to be added to it . 
That , we likewise drew up . 
After a deal of trouble I found out a Master , in Southampton Buildings , Chancery Lane , nigh Temple Bar , where I made the declaration , and paid eighteen pence . 
, and where I paid two pound , two , and sixpence . 
In six days he signed it , and I was told to take it to the Attorney General's chambers , and leave it there for a report . 
I did so , and paid four pound , four . 
Nobody all through , ever thankful for their money , but all uncivil . 
My lodging at Thomas Joy's was now hired for another week , whereof five days were gone . 
, and I was sent back with it to the Home Office . 
They made a Copy of it , which was called a Warrant . 
For this warrant , I paid seven pound , thirteen , and six . 
It was sent to the Queen , to sign . 
The Queen sent it back , signed . 
The Home Secretary signed it again . 
The gentleman throwed it at me when I called , and said , 'Now take it to the Patent Office in Lincoln's Inn . 
I was then in my third week at Thomas Joy's living very sparing , on account of fees . 
I found myself losing heart . 
At the Patent Office in Lincoln's Inn , they made 'a draft of the Queen's bill , of my invention , and a 'docket of the bill . 
I paid five pound , ten , and six , for this . 
They 'engrossed two copies of the bill one for the Signet Office , and one for the Privy Seal Office . 
I paid one pound , seven , and six , for this . 
Stamp duty over and above , three pound . 
The Engrossing Clerk of the same office engrossed the Queen's bill for signature . 
I paid him one pound , one . 
Stamp duty , again , one pound , ten . 
I was next to take the Queen's bill to the Attorney General again , and get it signed again . 
I took it , and paid five pound more . 
I fetched it away , and took it to the Home Secretary again . 
He sent it to the Queen again . 
I paid seven pound , thirteen , and six , more , for this . 
I had been over a month at Thomas Joy's . 
I was quite wore out , patience and pocket . 
Thomas Joy delivered all this , as it went on , to William Butcher . 
William Butcher delivered , at his Parlour , in a speech , that it was a Patent way of making Chartists . 
But I hadn't nigh done yet . 
The Queen's bill was to be took to the Signet Office in Somerset House , Strand where the stamp shop is . 
The Clerk of the Signet made 'a Signet bill for the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal . 
I paid him four pound , seven . 
The Clerk of the Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal made 'a Privy Seal bill for the Lord Chancellor . 
I paid him , four pound , two . 
The Privy Seal bill was handed over to the Clerk of the Patents , who engrossed the aforesaid . 
I paid him five pound , seventeen , and eight at the same time , I paid Stamp duty for the Patent , in one lump , thirty pound . 
I next paid for 'boxes for the Patent , nine and sixpence . 
Thomas Joy would have made the same at a profit for eighteen pence . 
I next paid 'fees to the Deputy , the Lord Chancellor's Purse bearer , two pound , two . 
I next paid 'fees to the Clerk of the Hanapar , seven pound , thirteen . 
I next paid 'fees to the Deputy Clerk of the Hanaper , ten shillings . 
I next paid , to the Lord Chancellor again , one pound , eleven , and six . 
Last of all , I paid 'fees to the Deputy Sealer , and Deputy Chaff wax , ten shillings and sixpence . 
I had lodged at Thomas Joy's over six weeks , and the unopposed Patent for my invention , for England only , had cost me ninety six pound , seven , and eightpence . 
If I had taken it out for the United Kingdom , it would have cost me more than three hundred pound . 
Now , teaching had not come up but very limited when I was young . 
So much the worse for me you'll say . 
William Butcher is twenty year younger than me . 
He knows a hundred year more . 
If William Butcher had wanted to Patent an invention , he might have been sharper than myself when hustled backwards and forwards among all those offices , though I doubt if so patient . 
William being sometimes cranky , and consider porters , messengers , and clerks . 
Thereby I say nothing of my being tired of my life , while I was Patenting my invention . 
And look at the expense . 
, to put me to all that expense before I can move a finger ! Make the addition yourself , and it'll come to ninety six pound , seven , and eightpence . 
No more , and no less . 
No man in England could get a Patent for an Indian rubber band , or an iron hoop , without feeing all of them . 
Some of them , over and over again . 
I went through thirty five stages . 
I began with the Queen upon the Throne . 
I ended with the Deputy Chaff wax . 
I should like to see the Deputy Chaff wax . 
Is it a man , or what is it ? What I had to tell , I have told . 
I have wrote it down . 
, as in the sense of it . 
I will now conclude with Thomas Joy . 
My opinion is the same as Thomas Joy . 
In William Butcher's delivering 'that the whole gang of Hanapers and Chaff waxes must be done away with , and that England has been chaffed and waxed sufficient , I agree . 
THE NOBLE SAVAGE TO come to the point at once , I beg to say that I have not the least belief in the Noble Savage . 
I consider him a prodigious nuisance , and an enormous superstition . 
His calling rum fire water , and me a pale face , wholly fail to reconcile me to him . 
I don't care what he calls me . 
I call him a savage , and I call a savage a something highly desirable to be civilised off the face of the earth . 
better than a howling , whistling , clucking , stamping , jumping , tearing savage . 
There was Mr. Catlin , some few years ago , with his Ojibbeway Indians . 
Mine are no new views of the noble savage . 
The greatest writers on natural history found him out long ago . 
that his race is spare in numbers . 
For evidence of the quality of his moral nature , pass himself for a moment and refer to his 'faithful dog . 
There may have been a change now and then in those diseased absurdities , but there is none in him . 
Think of the two men and the two women who have been exhibited about England for some years . 
There is at present a party of Zulu Kaffirs exhibiting at the St . 
George's Gallery , Hyde Park Corner , London . 
But let us with the interpreter's assistance , of which I for one stand so much in need see what the noble savage does in Zulu Kaffirland . 
are wars of extermination which is the best thing I know of him , and the most comfortable to my mind when I look at him . 
He has no moral feelings of any kind , sort , or description and his 'mission' may be summed up as simply diabolical . 
The ceremonies with which he faintly diversifies his life are , of course , of a kindred nature . 
that there never was such a daughter in the market as his daughter , and that he must have six more cows . 
The son in law and his select circle of backers screech , whistle , stamp , and yell in reply , that they will give three more cows . 
accepts four , and rises to bind the bargain . 
the noble savage is considered married , and his friends make demoniacal leaps at him by way of congratulation . 
When the noble savage finds himself a little unwell , and mentions the circumstance to his friends , it is immediately perceived that he is under the influence of witchcraft . 
A learned personage , called an Imyanger or Witch Doctor , is immediately sent for to Nooker the Umtargartie , or smell out the witch . 
Yow yow yow ! No connexion with any other establishment . 
Him he never fails to Nooker as the Umtargartie , and he is instantly killed . 
In the absence of such an individual , the usual practice is to Nooker the quietest and most gentlemanly person in company . 
But the nookering is invariably followed on the spot by the butchering . 
But , several of these scenes of savage life bear a strong generic resemblance to an Irish election , and I think would be extremely well received and understood at Cork . 
It is my opinion that if we retained in us anything of the noble savage , we could not get rid of it too soon . 
But the fact is clearly otherwise . 
Upon the wife and dowry question , substituting coin for cows , we have assuredly nothing of the Zulu Kaffir left . 
The endurance of despotism is one great distinguishing mark of a savage always . 
The improving world has quite got the better of that too . 
No , no , civilised poets have better work to do . 
And as to private Umtargarties , are we not in the year eighteen hundred and fifty three , with spirits rapping at our doors ? To conclude as I began . 
My position is , that if we have anything to learn from the Noble Savage , it is what to avoid . 
His virtues are a fable his happiness is a delusion his nobility , nonsense . 
in a cheap and independent manner . 
And talking of pine apples , I suppose there never were so many pine apples in a Train as there appear to be in this Train . 
Whew ! The hot house air is faint with pine apples . 
Every French citizen or citizeness is carrying pine apples home . 
has a pine apple in her lap . 
Compact Enchantress's friend , confidante , mother , mystery , Heaven knows what , has two pine apples in her lap , and a bundle of them under the seat . 
She was an actress once , I shouldn't wonder , and had a Mystery attendant on herself . 
That's hard to believe ! Two Englishmen , and now our carriage is full . 
First Englishman , in the monied interest flushed , highly respectable Stock Exchange , perhaps City , certainly . 
Faculties of second Englishman entirely absorbed in hurry . 
Plunges into the carriage , blind . 
Calls out of window concerning his luggage , deaf . 
Suffocates himself under pillows of great coats , for no reason , and in a demented manner . 
Will receive no assurance from any porter whatsoever . 
Is stout and hot , and wipes his head , and makes himself hotter by breathing so hard . 
Is totally incredulous respecting assurance of Collected Guard , that 'there's no hurry . 
No hurry ! And a flight to Paris in eleven hours ! It is all one to me in this drowsy corner , hurry or no hurry . 
Until Don Diego shall send home my wings , my flight is with the South Eastern Company . 
I can fly with the South Eastern , more lazily , at all events , than in the upper air . 
I have but to sit here thinking as idly as I please , and be whisked away . 
I am not accountable to anybody for the idleness of my thoughts in such an idle summer flight my flight is provided for by the South Eastern and is no business of mine . 
The bell ! With all my heart . 
It does not require me to do so much as even to flap my wings . 
Something snorts for me , something shrieks for me , something proclaims to everything else that it had better keep out of my way , and away I go . 
Ah ! The fresh air is pleasant after the forcing frame , though it does blow over these interminable streets , and scatter the smoke of this vast wilderness of chimneys . 
Here we are no , I mean there we were , for it has darted far into the rear in Bermondsey where the tanners live . 
Flash ! The distant shipping in the Thames is gone . 
Whizz ! Dust heaps , market gardens , and waste grounds . 
Rattle ! New Cross Station . 
Shock ! There we were at Croydon . 
Bur r r r ! The tunnel . 
I wonder why it is that when I shut my eyes in a tunnel I begin to feel as if I were going at an Express pace the other way . 
I am clearly going back to London now . 
Compact Enchantress must have forgotten something , and reversed the engine . 
No ! After long darkness , pale fitful streaks of light appear . 
I am still flying on for Folkestone . 
There is a dreamy pleasure in this flying . 
Monied Interest says it was at Reigate Station . 
Expounds to Mystery how Reigate Station is so many miles from London , which Mystery again develops to Compact Enchantress . 
There might be neither a Reigate nor a London for me , as I fly away among the Kentish hops and harvest . 
What do I care ? Bang ! We have let another Station off , and fly away regardless . 
The hop gardens turn gracefully towards me , presenting regular avenues of hops in rapid flight , then whirl away . 
'Are you for Tunbridge , sir ? 'Tunbridge ? No. Paris . 
'Plenty of time , sir . 
Five minutes here , sir , for refreshment . 
as to procure a glass of water for Compact Enchantress . 
Monied Interest and I re entering the carriage first , and being there alone , he intimates to me that the French are 'no go' as a Nation . 
I ask why ? He says , that Reign of Terror of theirs was quite enough . 
I ventured to inquire whether he remembers anything that preceded said Reign of Terror ? He says not particularly . 
'Because , I remark , 'the harvest that is reaped , has sometimes been sown . 
Monied Interest repeats , as quite enough for him , that the French are revolutionary , 'and always at it . 
, gives us her charming little side box look , and smites me to the core . 
Pine apple atmosphere faintly tinged with suspicions of sherry . 
Demented Traveller flits past the carriage , looking for it . 
Is blind with agitation , and can't see it . 
Seems singled out by Destiny to be the only unhappy creature in the flight , who has any cause to hurry himself . 
Is seized by Collected Guard after the Train is in motion , and bundled in . 
Still , has lingering suspicions that there must be a boat in the neighbourhood , and WILL look wildly out of window for it . 
Corn sheaves , hop gardens , reapers , gleaners , apple orchards , cherry orchards , Stations single and double barrelled , Ashford . 
gives a little scream a sound that seems to come from high up in her precious little head from behind her bright little eyebrows . 
'Great Heaven , my pine apple ! My Angel ! It is lost ! Mystery is desolated . 
'Tickets ready , gentlemen ! Demented dashes at the door . 
'For Paris , sir ? No hurry . 
before the insensible Royal George Hotel , for some ten minutes . 
The Royal George takes no more heed of us than its namesake under water at Spithead , or under earth at Windsor , does . 
don't bestow a solitary glance upon us , flying thus to Paris in eleven hours . 
The first gentleman in Folkestone is evidently used up , on this subject . 
Conceives that every man's hand is against him , and exerting itself to prevent his getting to Paris . 
Sees smoke on the horizon , and 'knows' it's the boat gone without him . 
Monied Interest resentfully explains that HE is going to Paris too . 
Demented signifies , that if Monied Interest chooses to be left behind , HE don't . 
'Refreshments in the Waiting Room , ladies and gentlemen . 
No hurry , ladies and gentlemen , for Paris . 
All this time , there is a very waterfall of luggage , with a spray of dust , tumbling slantwise from the pier into the steamboat . 
watches it with starting eyes , fiercely requiring to be shown HIS luggage . 
A lovely harvest day , a cloudless sky , a tranquil sea . 
Compact Enchantress greets her sister artist Oh , the Compact One's pretty teeth ! and Mystery greets Mystery . 
My Mystery soon ceases to be conversational is taken poorly , in a word , having lunched too miscellaneously and goes below . 
, and is upon the whole ravished . 
And now I find that all the French people on board begin to grow , and all the English people to shrink . 
The French are nearing home , and shaking off a disadvantage , whereas we are shaking it on . 
Just what they gain , we lose . 
on the Custom house wall also by the sight of large cocked hats , without which demonstrative head gear nothing of a public nature can be done upon this soil . 
All the rabid Hotel population of Boulogne howl and shriek outside a distant barrier , frantic to get at us . 
brought me down with his eye before the boat came into port . 
and I suppose I shall find it when I come to Paris he says I shall . 
'Lunch or dinner , ladies and gentlemen . 
Plenty of time for Paris . 
Comfortably restored from these resources , I begin to fly again . 
presented to Compact Enchantress and Sister Artist , by an officer in uniform , with a waist like a wasp's , and pantaloons like two balloons . 
They all got into the next carriage together , accompanied by the two Mysteries . 
and alone in the world . 
Fields , windmills , low grounds , pollard trees , windmills , fields , fortifications , Abbeville , soldiering and drumming . 
I wonder where England is , and when I was there last about two years ago , I should say . 
Flying in and out among these trenches and batteries , skimming the clattering drawbridges , looking down into the stagnant ditches , I become a prisoner of state , escaping . 
I am confined with a comrade in a fortress . 
Our room is in an upper story . 
We have tried to get up the chimney , but there's an iron grating across it , imbedded in the masonry . 
After months of labour , we have worked the grating loose with the poker , and can lift it up . 
We have also made a hook , and twisted our rugs and blankets into ropes . 
The time is come a wild and stormy night . 
More fortifications , more soldiering and drumming , more basins of soup , more little loaves of bread , more bottles of wine , more caraffes of brandy , more time for refreshment . 
Everything good , and everything ready . 
Bright , unsubstantial looking , scenic sort of station . 
Houses , uniforms , beards , moustaches , some sabots , plenty of neat women , and a few old visaged children . 
Unless it be a delusion born of my giddy flight , the grown up people and the children seem to change places in France . 
In general , the boys and girls are little old men and women , and the men and women lively boys and girls . 
Bugle , shriek , flight resumed . 
Monied Interest has come into my carriage . 
Says the manner of refreshing is 'not bad , but considers it French . 
Admits great dexterity and politeness in the attendants . 
Thinks a decimal currency may have something to do with their despatch in settling accounts , and don't know but what it's sensible and convenient . 
Adds , however , as a general protest , that they're a revolutionary people and always at it . 
Ramparts , canals , cathedral , river , soldiering and drumming , open country , river , earthenware manufactures , Creil . 
Not even Demented in a hurry . 
Station , a drawing room with a verandah like a planter's house . 
Monied Interest considers it a band box , and not made to last . 
Little round tables in it , at one of which the Sister Artists and attendant Mysteries are established with Wasp and Zamiel , as if they were going to stay a week . 
Anon , with no more trouble than before , I am flying again , and lazily wondering as I fly . 
I feel as if I were enchanted or bewitched . 
Surely , not the pavement of Paris ? Yes , I think it is , too . 
And yet this morning I'll think of it in a warm bath . 
I will go out for a walk . 
I stroll down to the sparkling Palais Royal , up the Rue de Rivoli , to the Place Vendome . 
As I glance into a print shop window , Monied Interest , my late travelling companion , comes upon me , laughing with the highest relish of disdain . 
'Here's a people ! he says , pointing to Napoleon in the window and Napoleon on the column . 
It is so well done , that there really is no hurry ! THE DETECTIVE POLICE WE are not by any means devout believers in the old Bow Street Police . 
To say the truth , we think there was a vast amount of humbug about those worthies . 
Continually puffed besides by incompetent magistrates anxious to conceal their own deficiencies , and hand in glove with the penny a liners of that time , they became a sort of superstition . 
In consequence of which appointment the party 'came off , which we are about to describe . 
The reader will have the goodness to imagine the Sanctum Sanctorum of Household Words . 
Anything that best suits the reader's fancy , will best represent that magnificent chamber . 
It is a sultry evening at dusk . 
The stones of Wellington Street are hot and gritty , and the watermen and hackney coachmen at the Theatre opposite , are much flushed and aggravated . 
Just at dusk , Inspectors Wield and Stalker are announced but we do not undertake to warrant the orthography of any of the names here mentioned . 
Inspector Wield presents Inspector Stalker . 
Inspector Stalker is a shrewd , hard headed Scotchman in appearance not at all unlike a very acute , thoroughly trained schoolmaster , from the Normal Establishment at Glasgow . 
Inspector Wield one might have known , perhaps , for what he is Inspector Stalker , never . 
The ceremonies of reception over , Inspectors Wield and Stalker observe that they have brought some sergeants with them . 
The sergeants are presented five in number , Sergeant Dornton , Sergeant Witchem , Sergeant Mith , Sergeant Fendall , and Sergeant Straw . 
We have the whole Detective Force from Scotland Yard , with one exception . 
at a little distance from the round table , facing the editorial sofa . 
Every man of them , in a glance , immediately takes an inventory of the furniture and an accurate sketch of the editorial presence . 
The Editor feels that any gentleman in company could take him up , if need should be , without the smallest hesitation , twenty years hence . 
The whole party are in plain clothes . 
He is famous for steadily pursuing the inductive process , and , from small beginnings , working on from clue to clue until he bags his man . 
Sergeant Witchem , shorter and thicker set , and marked with the small pox , has something of a reserved and thoughtful air , as if he were engaged in deep arithmetical calculations . 
He is renowned for his acquaintance with the swell mob . 
Sergeant Mith , a smooth faced man with a fresh bright complexion , and a strange air of simplicity , is a dab at housebreakers . 
Sergeant Fendall , a light haired , well spoken , polite person , is a prodigious hand at pursuing private inquiries of a delicate nature . 
They have all good eyes and they all can , and they all do , look full at whomsoever they speak to . 
, and the conversation begins by a modest amateur reference on the Editorial part to the swell mob . 
Because the reason why ? I'll tell you . 
Sergeant Witchem is better acquainted with the swell mob than any officer in London . 
Meantime , the whole of his brother officers are closely interested in attending to what he says , and observing its effect . 
Presently they begin to strike in , one or two together , when an opportunity offers , and the conversation becomes general . 
But these brother officers only come in to the assistance of each other not to the contradiction and a more amicable brotherhood there could not be . 
Nothing is so common or deceptive as such appearances at first . 
Lying is their habit and their trade and they would rather lie even if they hadn't an interest in it , and didn't want to make themselves agreeable than tell the truth . 
From these topics , we glide into a review of the most celebrated and horrible of the great crimes that have been committed within the last fifteen or twenty years . 
The men engaged in the discovery of almost all of them , and in the pursuit or apprehension of the murderers , are here , down to the very last instance . 
One of our guests gave chase to and boarded the emigrant ship , in which the murderess last hanged in London was supposed to have embarked . 
We learn from him that his errand was not announced to the passengers , who may have no idea of it to this hour . 
Satisfied that she was not the object of his search , he quietly re embarked in the Government steamer along side , and steamed home again with the intelligence . 
When we have exhausted these subjects , too , which occupy a considerable time in the discussion , two or three leave their chairs , whisper Sergeant Witchem , and resume their seat . 
We assure Sergeant Witchem that he will oblige us very much , and we all compose ourselves to listen with great interest and attention . 
'Tally ho Thompson , says Sergeant Witchem , after merely wetting his lips with his brandy and water , 'Tally ho Thompson was a famous horse stealer , couper , and magsman . 
I had to look after Thompson , and I applied myself , of course , in the first instance , to discovering where he was . 
Now , Thompson's wife lived , along with a little daughter , at Chelsea . 
Knowing that Thompson was somewhere in the country , I watched the house especially at post time in the morning thinking Thompson was pretty likely to write to her . 
Sure enough , one morning the postman comes up , and delivers a letter at Mrs. Thompson's door . 
Little girl opens the door , and takes it in . 
We're not always sure of postmen , though the people at the post offices are always very obliging . 
A postman may help us , or he may not , just as it happens . 
You've just delivered a letter for Mrs. Thompson . 
You didn't happen to remark what the post mark was , perhaps ? No , says he , I didn't . 
Come , says I , I'll be plain with you . 
I'm in a small way of business , and I have given Thompson credit , and I can't afford to lose what he owes me . 
So I said Thankee to the postman , and I kept on the watch . 
In the afternoon I saw the little girl come out . 
Of course I followed her . 
She went into a stationer's shop , and I needn't say to you that I looked in at the window . 
She bought some writing paper and envelopes , and a pen . 
In about an hour or so , out came the little girl again , with the letter in her hand . 
I saw her post the letter , waited till she was gone , then went into the shop , and asked to see the Master . 
It was directed , Mr. Thomas Pigeon , Post Office , B , to be left till called for . 
Well , I waited there three days , and began to think that nobody ever WOULD come . 
I began to pat the horse , and that and I said to the boy , Why , this is Mr. Jones's Mare ! No. It an't . 
No ? said I. She's very like Mr. Jones's Mare ! She an't Mr. Jones's Mare , anyhow , says he . 
It's Mr. So and So's , of the Warwick Arms . 
And up he jumped , and off he went letter and all . 
I went into the bar , where there was a young woman serving , and called for a glass of brandy and water . 
He came in directly , and handed her the letter . 
She casually looked at it , without saying anything , and stuck it up behind the glass over the chimney piece . 
, but I couldn't see my way out of it at all . 
I tried to get lodgings in the house , but there had been a horse fair , or something of that sort , and it was full . 
I was obliged to put up somewhere else , but I came backwards and forwards to the bar for a couple of days , and there was the letter always behind the glass . 
At last I thought I'd write a letter to Mr. Pigeon myself , and see what that would do . 
So I wrote one , and posted it , but I purposely addressed it , Mr. John Pigeon , instead of Mr. Thomas Pigeon , to see what THAT would do . 
I watched the postman down the street , and cut into the bar , just before he reached the Warwick Arms . 
In he came presently with my letter . 
Is there a Mr. John Pigeon staying here ? No ! stop a bit though , says the barmaid and she took down the letter behind the glass . 
No , says she , it's Thomas , and HE is not staying here . 
He put it in his hat , and away he went . 
'I had no difficulty in finding out the direction of that letter . 
It was addressed Mr. Thomas Pigeon , Post Office , R , Northamptonshire , to be left till called for . 
Off I started directly for R I said the same at the Post Office there , as I had said at B and again I waited three days before anybody came . 
At last another chap on horseback came . 
Any letters for Mr. Thomas Pigeon ? Where do you come from ? New Inn , near R . 
He got the letter , and away HE went at a canter . 
I found it what it had been described , and sauntered in , to look about me . 
So I called for my brandy and water and as I was sitting drinking it by the fire , Thompson got up and went out . 
However , there was nothing for it now , but to follow , and put a bold face upon it . 
I found him talking , outside in the yard , with the landlady . 
It turned out afterwards that he was wanted by a Northampton officer for something else , and that , knowing that officer to be pock marked , he mistook me for him . 
As I have observed , I found him talking to the landlady , outside . 
I put my hand upon his shoulder this way and said , Tally ho Thompson , it's no use . 
I'm an officer from London , and I take you into custody for felony ! That be d d ! says Tally ho Thompson . 
'We went back into the house , and the two friends began to cut up rough , and their looks didn't please me at all , I assure you . 
What are you going to do with him ? I'll tell you what I'm going to do with him . 
I'm going to take him to London to night , as sure as I'm alive . 
I'm not alone here , whatever you may think . 
You mind your own business , and keep yourselves to yourselves . 
It'll be better for you , for I know you both very well . 
I'D never seen or heard of 'em in all my life , but my bouncing cowed 'em a bit , and they kept off , while Thompson was making ready to go . 
You have got an ostler , I suppose ? Yes , we've got an ostler . 
Presently he came , and a shaggy headed young fellow he was . 
Now attend to me , young man , says I I'm a Detective Officer from London . 
This man's name is Thompson . 
I have taken him into custody for felony . 
I am going to take him to the railroad station . 
Give me your word that you'll come peaceably along , and I don't want to handcuff you . 
I will , says Thompson , but I'll have a glass of brandy first . 
and leaving my friend in the shay near a public house , to take care of the horse , we went to the factory , which was some little way off . 
They were too many for us . 
We must get our man out of doors . 
Mr. Fikey at home ? No , he ain't . 
Expected home soon ? Why , no , not soon . 
Ah ! Is his brother here ? I'M his brother . 
Oh ! well , this is an ill conwenience , this is . 
No , he ain't in the way . 
You couldn't make it convenient to call again , could you ? Why , no , I couldn't . 
I want to sell that's the fact and I can't put it off . 
Could you find him anywheres ? At first he said No , he couldn't , and then he wasn't sure about it , and then he'd go and try . 
So at last he went up stairs , where there was a sort of loft , and presently down comes my man himself in his shirt sleeves . 
Well , he says , this seems to be rayther a pressing matter of yours . 
Yes , I says , it IS rayther a pressing matter , and you'll find it a bargain dirt cheap . 
I ain't in partickler want of a bargain just now , he says , but where is it ? Why , I says , the turn out's just outside . 
Come and look at it . 
He hasn't any suspicions , and away we go . 
when he takes a little trot along the road to show his paces . 
There , sir ! I says . 
There's a neat thing ! It ain't a bad style of thing , he says . 
I believe you , says I. And there's a horse ! for I saw him looking at it . 
Rising eight ! I says , rubbing his fore legs . 
Rising eight , is he ? says he . 
Ain't it ? I says . 
I told you it was a bargain ! Now , without any higgling and haggling about it , what I want is to sell , and that's my price . 
Well , he says again , that's very cheap . 
I believe you , says I get in and try it , and you'll buy it . 
But the clerk was bothered , and didn't know whether it was him , or wasn't because the reason why ? I'll tell you , on account of his having shaved his whiskers . 
It's a clever little horse , he says , and trots well and the shay runs light . 
Not a doubt about it , I says . 
And now , Mr. Fikey , I may as well make it all right , without wasting any more of your time . 
The fact is , I'm Inspector Wield , and you're my prisoner . 
You don't mean that ? he says . 
Then burn my body , says Fikey , if this ain't TOO bad ! 'Perhaps you never saw a man so knocked over with surprise . 
I hope you'll let me have my coat ? he says . 
Well , then , let's drive to the factory . 
Why , not exactly that , I think , said I I've been there , once before , to day . 
Suppose we send for it . 
He saw it was no go , so he sent for it , and put it on , and we drove him up to London , comfortable . 
Directions were given for the business being looked into and Straw , and Fendall , and me , we were all in it . 
'When you received your instructions , said we , 'you went away , and held a sort of Cabinet Council together ! The smooth faced officer coaxingly replied , 'Ye es . 
We turned it over among ourselves a good deal . 
It appeared , when we went into it , that the goods were sold by the receivers extraordinarily cheap much cheaper than they could have been if they had been honestly come by . 
The receivers were in the trade , and kept capital shops establishments of the first respectability one of 'em at the West End , one down in Westminster . 
Nothing in all creation could have suited him better . 
Even while he spoke , he became a greasy , sleepy , shy , good natured , chuckle headed , unsuspicious , and confiding young butcher . 
His very hair seemed to have suet in it , as he made it smooth upon his head , and his fresh complexion to be lubricated by large quantities of animal food . 
I'm come out of Northamptonshire , and I'm quite lonely here , for I don't know London at all , and it's such a mighty big town . 
It IS a big town , they says . 
Oh , it's a VERY big town ! I says . 
Really and truly I never was in such a town . 
It quite confuses of me ! and all that , you know . 
It was a common thing , while I was living there , for some of 'em to take me out , and show me London . 
However , by good luck such a thing never happened , and all went on quiet though the difficulties I had in communicating with my brother officers were quite extraordinary . 
'The stolen goods that were brought to the public house by the Warehouse Porters , were always disposed of in a back parlour . 
For a long time , I never could get into this parlour , or see what was done there . 
'This went on for ten weeks . 
I lived in the public house all the time , and never was out of the Butcher's dress except in bed . 
, and that he was going to make himself scarce . 
I shall call myself Simpson , which appears to me to be a modest sort of a name . 
They pointed out his room , up stairs . 
As we were going up , he looks down over the banister , and calls out , Halloa , Butcher ! is that you ? Yes , it's me . 
How do you find yourself ? Bobbish , he says but who's that with you ? It's only a young man , that's a friend of mine , I says . 
He thought , all along , it was a real Butcher . 
We have had a great deal too much of the Police . 
I want the Butcher ! However , sir , he had the Butcher and the Police officer , both in one . 
Out of seven prisoners committed for trial , five were found guilty , and some of 'em were transported . 
They are very short and , I think , curious . 
We welcomed the Carpet Bag , as cordially as Mr. Shepherdson welcomed the false Butcher at the Setting Moon . 
'In , I was despatched to Chatham , in search of one Mesheck , a Jew . 
, on pretence of discount , and bolting with the same . 
'Mesheck was off , before I got to Chatham . 
All I could learn about him was , that he had gone , probably to London , and had with him a Carpet Bag . 
'I came back to town , by the last train from Blackwall , and made inquiries concerning a Jew passenger with a Carpet Bag . 
'The office was shut up , it being the last train . 
There were only two or three porters left . 
But it happened that one of these porters had carried , for a certain Jew , to a certain public house , a certain Carpet Bag . 
I put such questions there , and to the porter , as I thought prudent , and got at this description of the Carpet Bag . 
'It was a bag which had , on one side of it , worked in worsted , a green parrot on a stand . 
A green parrot on a stand was the means by which to identify that Carpet Bag . 
'I traced Mesheck , by means of this green parrot on a stand , to Cheltenham , to Birmingham , to Liverpool , to the Atlantic Ocean . 
At Liverpool he was too many for me . 
He had gone to the United States , and I gave up all thoughts of Mesheck , and likewise of his Carpet Bag . 
He was supposed to have bought a farm in New Jersey . 
Under proper management , that estate could be seized and sold , for the benefit of the parties he had defrauded . 
I was sent off to America for this purpose . 
I went on to New York . 
I found that he had lately changed New York paper money for New Jersey paper money , and had banked cash in New Brunswick . 
To take this Doctor Dundey , it was necessary to entrap him into the State of New York , which required a deal of artifice and trouble . 
At one time , he couldn't be drawn into an appointment . 
At another time , he appointed to come to meet me , and a New York officer , on a pretext I made and then his children had the measles . 
'I went to the Tombs , on the morning after his capture , to attend the examination before the magistrate . 
How did you ever come to know that ? said they . 
'Was it , sir ? Of course it was ! He was in custody for another offence , in that very identical Tombs , at that very identical time . 
From information I , the officer , received , I did it and , according to the custom in these cases , I say no more . 
These games of chess , played with live pieces , are played before small audiences , and are chronicled nowhere . 
The interest of the game supports the player . 
Its results are enough for justice . 
Thus , at midnight , closed the proceedings of our curious and interesting party . 
But one other circumstance finally wound up the evening , after our Detective guests had left us . 
'It's concerning the murder of the young woman , Eliza Grimwood , some years ago , over in the Waterloo Road . 
'That's neither here nor there . 
I went to the house the morning after the murder , and examined the body , and made a general observation of the bedroom where it was . 
Turning down the pillow of the bed with my hand , I found , underneath it , a pair of gloves . 
A pair of gentleman's dress gloves , very dirty and inside the lining , the letters TR , and a cross . 
'Well , sir , I took them gloves away , and I showed 'em to the magistrate , over at Union Hall , before whom the case was . 
'I was of the same opinion , of course , and I went at it immediately . 
I looked at the gloves pretty narrowly , and it was my opinion that they had been cleaned . 
There was a smell of sulphur and rosin about 'em , you know , which cleaned gloves usually have , more or less . 
I took 'em over to a friend of mine at Kennington , who was in that line , and I put it to him . 
What do you say now ? Have these gloves been cleaned ? These gloves have been cleaned , says he . 
Have you any idea who cleaned them ? says I. Not at all , says he I've a very distinct idea who DIDN'T clean 'em , and that's myself . 
'What with this person not being at home , and that person being expected home in the afternoon , and so forth , the inquiry took me three days . 
So I went into the Pit , at half price , and I sat myself down next to a very quiet , modest sort of young man . 
he told me the names of the actors on the stage , and we got into conversation . 
I must be at work all night . 
At work all night ? says I. You ain't a baker ? No , he says , laughing , I ain't a baker . 
I thought not , says I , you haven't the looks of a baker . 
No , says he , I'm a glove cleaner . 
'I never was more astonished in my life , than when I heard them words come out of his lips . 
You're a glove cleaner , are you ? says I. Yes , he says , I am . 
Then , perhaps , says I , taking the gloves out of my pocket , you can tell me who cleaned this pair of gloves ? It's a rum story , I says . 
I've spent as much as seven shillings already , in trying to discover but , if you could help me , I'd stand another seven and welcome . 
You see there's TR and a cross , inside . 
I see , he says . 
Bless you , I know these gloves very well ! I've seen dozens of pairs belonging to the same party . 
No ? says I. Yes , says he . 
Then you know who cleaned 'em ? says I. Rather so , says he . 
Where does your father live ? says I. Just round the corner , says the young man , near Exeter Street , here . 
He'll tell you who they belong to , directly . 
Good evening , sir , says I to the old gentleman . 
Here's the gloves your son speaks of . 
Letters TR , you see , and a cross . 
Oh yes , he says , I know these gloves very well I've cleaned dozens of pairs of 'em . 
They belong to Mr. Trinkle , the great upholsterer in Cheapside . 
Perhaps YOU wouldn't object to a drain ? says I. Not in the least ! says he . 
So I took the old gentleman out , and had a little more talk with him and his son , over a glass , and we parted excellent friends . 
'This was late on a Saturday night . 
First thing on the Monday morning , I went to the haberdasher's shop , opposite Mr. Trinkle's , the great upholsterer's in Cheapside . 
Mr. Phibbs in the way ? My name is Phibbs . 
Oh ! I believe you sent this pair of gloves to be cleaned ? Yes , I did , for young Mr. Trinkle over the way . 
There he is in the shop ! Oh ! that's him in the shop , is it ? Him in the green coat ? The same individual . 
If any was attempted , I should have to interfere directly . 
Perhaps you'll beckon him over here ? Mr. Phibbs went to the door and beckoned , and the young fellow came across the street directly a smart , brisk young fellow . 
Good morning , sir , says I. Good morning , sir , says he . 
Would you allow me to inquire , sir , says I , if you ever had any acquaintance with a party of the name of Grimwood ? Grimwood ! Grimwood ! says he . 
However , I think it's a case of that sort , that , at present , at all events , the magistrate will hear it in private . 
Who should come in , shortly afterwards , but Eliza Grimwood ! Whose gloves are these ? she says , taking 'em up . 
Those are Mr. Trinkle's gloves , says her cousin . 
Oh ! says she , they are very dirty , and of no use to him , I am sure . 
I shall take 'em away for my girl to clean the stoves with . 
And she put 'em in her pocket . 
That's the story , sir . 
It was a lovely idea ! 'Witchem and me were down at Epsom one Derby Day , waiting at the station for the Swell Mob . 
That , however , ain't the point of what I'm going to tell you . 
Halloa , Charley Wield , he says . 
What are you doing here ? On the look out for some of your old friends ? Yes , the old move , Mr. Tatt . 
Come along , he says , you and Witchem , and have a glass of sherry . 
We can't stir from the place , says I , till the next train comes in but after that , we will with pleasure . 
Mr. Tatt waits , and the train comes in , and then Witchem and me go off with him to the Hotel . 
, and we take 'em all , and carry 'em off to the station . 
The station's full of people , who have been took on the course and it's a precious piece of work to get 'em secured . 
What do you mean , Mr. Wield ? says Witchem . 
You know what Quarter Sessions are , sir . 
In the tree he was took an old woman having seen him climb up and Witchem's artful touch transported him ! III . 
The students could leave nothing in the pockets of their great coats , while the great coats were hanging at the hospital , but it was almost certain to be stolen . 
The case was entrusted to me , and I went to the hospital . 
Now , gentlemen , said I , after we had talked it over I understand this property is usually lost from one room . 
I should wish , if you please , said I , to see the room . 
'It was a good sized bare room down stairs , with a few tables and forms in it , and a row of pegs , all round , for hats and coats . 
Next , gentlemen , said I , do you suspect anybody ? 'Yes , they said . 
They were sorry to say , they suspected one of the porters . 
I should like , said I , to have that man pointed out to me , and to have a little time to look after him . 
'He was pointed out , and I looked after him , and then I went back to the hospital , and said , Now , gentlemen , it's not the porter . 
He's , unfortunately for himself , a little too fond of drink , but he's nothing worse . 
'The sofa was provided , and next day at eleven o'clock , before any of the students came , I went there , with those gentlemen , to get underneath it . 
I got under the sofa , lay down on my chest , took out my knife , and made a convenient hole in the chintz to look through . 
And that that great coat should have , in one of the pockets , a pocket book containing marked money . 
At last there came in one who remained until he was alone in the room by himself . 
A tallish , good looking young man of one or two and twenty , with a light whisker . 
I then felt quite certain that he was the thief , and would come back by and by . 
'When they were all up stairs , the gentleman came in with the great coat . 
'At last , the same young man came down . 
When he came to the great coat , and felt the pocket book , he was so eager and so hurried that he broke the strap in tearing it open . 
As he began to put the money in his pocket , I crawled out from under the sofa , and his eyes met mine . 
'My face , as you may perceive , is brown now , but it was pale at that time , my health not being good and looked as long as a horse's . 
He turned blue literally blue when he saw me crawling out , and I couldn't feel surprised at it . 
I am an officer of the Detective Police , said I , and have been lying here , since you first came in this morning . 
I regret , for the sake of yourself and your friends , that you should have done what you have but this case is complete . 
How or when he got the means I don't know but while he was awaiting his sentence , he poisoned himself in Newgate . 
But , as it was , I being dead certain of my man , the time seemed pretty short . 
ON DUTY WITH INSPECTOR FIELD HOW goes the night ? Saint Giles's clock is striking nine . 
The weather is dull and wet , and the long lines of street lamps are blurred , as if we saw them through tears . 
A damp wind blows and rakes the pieman's fire out , when he opens the door of his little furnace , carrying away an eddy of sparks . 
Saint Giles's clock strikes nine . 
Where is Inspector Field ? Assistant Commissioner of Police is already here , enwrapped in oil skin cloak , and standing in the shadow of Saint Giles's steeple . 
Detective Sergeant , weary of speaking French all day to foreigners unpacking at the Great Exhibition , is already here . 
Where is Inspector Field ? Inspector Field is , to night , the guardian genius of the British Museum . 
He is bringing his shrewd eye to bear on every corner of its solitary galleries , before he reports 'all right . 
If a mummy trembled in an atom of its dusty covering , Inspector Field would say , 'Come out of that , Tom Green . 
Will Inspector Field be long about this work ? He may be half an hour longer . 
He sends his compliments by Police Constable , and proposes that we meet at St . 
Giles's Station House , across the road . 
It were as well to stand by the fire , there , as in the shadow of Saint Giles's steeple . 
Anything doing here to night ? Not much . 
Presently , a sensation at the Station House door . 
Is Rogers ready ? Rogers is ready , strapped and great coated , with a flaming eye in the middle of his waist , like a deformed Cyclops . 
I have not dismissed the thing . 
'I'll let you know pretty quick , if you don't hook it . 
WILL you hook it ? A sycophantic murmur rises from the crowd . 
He suddenly turns his lantern on the owner . 
'What ! YOU are there , are you , Mister Click ? You hook it too come ! 'What for ? says Mr. Click , discomfited . 
'You hook it , will you ! says Mr. Rogers with stern emphasis . 
Both Click and Miles DO 'hook it , without another word , or , in plainer English , sneak away . 
'Close up there , my men ! says Inspector Field to two constables on duty who have followed . 
'Keep together , gentlemen we are going down here . 
Heads ! Saint Giles's church strikes half past ten . 
We stoop low , and creep down a precipitous flight of steps into a dark close cellar . 
There is a long deal table . 
The cellar is full of company , chiefly very young men in various conditions of dirt and raggedness . 
There are no girls or women present . 
There's a fine young man for a nice little party , sir ! An't he ? Inspector Field is the bustling speaker . 
Inspector Field's eye is the roving eye that searches every corner of the cellar as he talks . 
Yet Inspector Field stands in this den , the Sultan of the place . 
Every thief here cowers before him , like a schoolboy before his schoolmaster . 
All watch him , all answer when addressed , all laugh at his jokes , all seek to propitiate him . 
There's a chest , sir , not to have a clean shirt on . 
An't it ? Take your hat off , my Lord . 
Why , I should be ashamed if I was you and an Earl , too to show myself to a gentleman with my hat on ! The Earl of Warwick laughs and uncovers . 
One pickpocket , especially , laughs with great enthusiasm . 
Good evening , Mr. Field ! Let us see . 
You lived servant to a nobleman once ? Yes , Mr. Field . 
And what is it you do now I forget ? Well , Mr. Field , I job about as well as I can . 
I left my employment on account of delicate health . 
The family is still kind to me . 
Mr. Wix of Piccadilly is also very kind to me when I am hard up . 
Likewise Mr. Nix of Oxford Street . 
I get a trifle from them occasionally , and rub on as well as I can , Mr. Field . 
Mr. Field's eye rolls enjoyingly , for this man is a notorious begging letter writer . 
Now , stand back all of you ! In the rear Detective Sergeant plants himself , composedly whistling , with his strong right arm across the narrow passage . 
And yonder ? Me sir , Irish me , with me wife and eight poor babes . 
And to the left there ? Me sir , Irish me , along with two more Irish boys as is me friends . 
And to the right there ? Me sir and the Murphy fam'ly , numbering five blessed souls . 
Wheresoever Mr. Rogers turns the flaming eye , there is a spectral figure rising , unshrouded , from a grave of rags . 
Who is the landlord here ? I am , Mr. Field ! says a bundle of ribs and parchment against the wall , scratching itself . 
He's honest ! cry the spectres . 
And with thanks and Good Night sink into their graves again . 
Thus , we make our New Oxford Streets , and our other new streets , never heeding , never asking , where the wretches whom we clear out , crowd . 
The yard is full , and Rogers of the flaming eye is beleaguered with entreaties to show other Lodging Houses . 
Mine next ! Mine ! Mine ! Rogers , military , obdurate , stiff necked , immovable , replies not , but leads away all falling back before him . 
Detective Sergeant , with his barrier of arm across the little passage , deliberately waits to close the procession . 
In one , The Ethiopian party are expected home presently were in Oxford Street when last heard of shall be fetched , for our delight , within ten minutes . 
In all , Inspector Field is received with warmth . 
Coiners and smashers droop before him pickpockets defer to him the gentle sex smile upon him . 
Saint Giles's clock says it will be midnight in half an hour , and Inspector Field says we must hurry to the Old Mint in the Borough . 
The cab driver is low spirited , and has a solemn sense of his responsibility . 
Deputy , who have you got up stairs ? Be pleased to show the rooms ! Why Deputy , Inspector Field can't say . 
He only knows that the man who takes care of the beds and lodgers is always called so . 
Some wake up with an execration and a threat . 
What ! who spoke ? O ! If it's the accursed glaring eye that fixes me , go where I will , I am helpless . 
Here ! I sit up to be looked at . 
Is it me you want ? Not you , lie down again ! and I lie down , with a woful growl . 
Whenever the turning lane of light becomes stationary for a moment , some sleeper appears at the end of it , submits himself to be scrutinised , and fades away into the darkness . 
There should be strange dreams here , Deputy . 
What is the inscription , Deputy , on all the discoloured sheets ? A precaution against loss of linen . 
Deputy turns down the rug of an unoccupied bed and discloses it . 
STOP THIEF ! And to know that I MUST be stopped , come what will . 
But what avail they ? Who gets in by a nod , and shows their secret working to us ? Inspector Field . 
Don't forget the old Farm House , Parker ! Parker is not the man to forget it . 
We are going there , now . 
It is the old Manor House of these parts , and stood in the country once . 
This long paved yard was a paddock or a garden once , or a court in front of the Farm House . 
It's likelier than not , Inspector Field thinks , as we turn into the common kitchen , which is in the yard , and many paces from the house . 
He an't musical to night , sir . 
I've been giving him a moral lecture I've been a talking to him about his latter end , you see . 
A good many of these are my pupils , sir . 
is a pupil of mine . 
I'm a teaching of him to read , sir . 
He's a promising cove , sir . 
He's a smith , he is , and gets his living by the sweat of the brow , sir . 
So do I , myself , sir . 
This young woman is my sister , Mr. Field . 
SHE'S getting on very well too . 
I've a deal of trouble with 'em , sir , but I'm richly rewarded , now I see 'em all a doing so well , and growing up so creditable . 
sits a young , modest , gentle looking creature , with a beautiful child in her lap . 
She seems to belong to the company , but is so strangely unlike it . 
Has no objections , Mr. Field , to gentlemen being brought , but wishes it were at earlier hours , the lodgers complaining of ill conwenience . 
Inspector Field is polite and soothing knows his woman and the sex . 
still keep a sequestered tavern , and sit o' nights smoking pipes in the bar , among ancient bottles and glasses , as our eyes behold them . 
How goes the night now ? Saint George of Southwark answers with twelve blows upon his bell . 
Parker , good night , for Williams is already waiting over in the region of Ratcliffe Highway , to show the houses where the sailors dance . 
I should like to know where Inspector Field was born . 
In Ratcliffe Highway , I would have answered with confidence , but for his being equally at home wherever we go . 
HE does not trouble his head as I do , about the river at night . 
It has no mystery for HIM . 
Is there not the Thames Police ! Accordingly , Williams leads the way . 
We are a little late , for some of the houses are already closing . 
All the landlords know Inspector Field . 
All pass him , freely and good humouredly , wheresoever he wants to go . 
Even in the midst of drunkenness , both of the lethargic kind and the lively , there is sharp landlord supervision , and pockets are in less peril than out of doors . 
These houses show , singularly , how much of the picturesque and romantic there truly is in the sailor , requiring to be especially addressed . 
are of the sentimental sea sort . 
All the rooms are decorated with nautical subjects . 
Nothing can be done in the fanciful way , without a thumping boy upon a scaly dolphin . 
How goes the night now ? Past one . 
Black and Green are waiting in Whitechapel to unveil the mysteries of Wentworth Street . 
Williams , the best of friends must part . 
Adieu ! Are not Black and Green ready at the appointed place ? O yes ! They glide out of shadow as we stop . 
Imperturbable Black opens the cab door Imperturbable Green takes a mental note of the driver . 
Both Green and Black then open each his flaming eye , and marshal us the way that we are going . 
The lodging house we want is hidden in a maze of streets and courts . 
Detective Sergeant meanwhile has got over a rail , opened a gate , dropped down an area , overcome some other little obstacles , and tapped at a window . 
The landlord will send a deputy immediately . 
Deputy is heard to stumble out of bed . 
Deputy lights a candle , draws back a bolt or two , and appears at the door . 
Deputy is a shivering shirt and trousers by no means clean , a yawning face , a shock head much confused externally and internally . 
We want to look for some one . 
Halloa here ! Now then ! Show yourselves . 
What , you haven't found him , then ? says Deputy , when we came down . 
A woman mysteriously sitting up all night in the dark by the smouldering ashes of the kitchen fire , says it's only tramps and cadgers here it's gonophs over the way . 
A man mysteriously walking about the kitchen all night in the dark , bids her hold her tongue . 
Deputy fastens the door and goes to bed again . 
Black and Green , you know Bark , lodging house keeper and receiver of stolen goods ? O yes , Inspector Field . 
Bark sleeps in an inner wooden hutch , near his street door . 
As we parley on the step with Bark's Deputy , Bark growls in his bed . 
We enter , and Bark flies out of bed . 
Bark's parts of speech are of an awful sort principally adjectives . 
I'll punch their adjective heads . 
I'll rip up their adjective substantives . 
You know we will come in . 
I know you won't ! says Bark . 
Somebody give me my adjective trousers ! Bark's trousers seem difficult to find . 
He calls for them as Hercules might for his club . 
Give me my adjective trousers ! says Bark , and I'll spile the bileing of 'em ! Inspector Field holds that it's all one whether Bark likes the visit or don't like it . 
He , Inspector Field , is an Inspector of the Detective Police , Detective Sergeant IS Detective Sergeant , Black and Green are constables in uniform . 
Don't you be a fool , Bark , or you know it will be the worse for you . 
I don't care , says Bark . 
Bark's kitchen is crammed full of thieves , holding a CONVERSAZIONE there by lamp light . 
It is by far the most dangerous assembly we have seen yet . 
Stimulated by the ravings of Bark , above , their looks are sullen , but not a man speaks . 
Bark has got his trousers , and is in a state of madness in the passage with his back against a door that shuts off the upper staircase . 
We observe , in other respects , a ferocious individuality in Bark . 
They'd come up and do for you ! cries Bark , and waits . 
Not a sound in the kitchen ! They'd come up and do for you ! cries Bark again , and waits . 
They know the weight of the law , and they know Inspector Field and Co . 
We leave bully Bark to subside at leisure out of his passion and his trousers , and , I dare say , to be inconveniently reminded of this little brush before long . 
Black and Green do ordinary duty here , and look serious . 
As undistinctive Death will come here , one day , sleep comes now . 
The wicked cease from troubling sometimes , even in this life . 
O ! It was very , very dark upon the Thames , and it was bitter , bitter cold . 
From the Niagara , downward to the mountain rivers of Italy , which are like the national spirit very tame , or chafing suddenly and bursting bounds , only to dwindle away again . 
The Moselle , and the Rhine , and the Rhone and the Seine , and the Saone and the St . 
Lawrence , Mississippi , and Ohio and the Tiber , the Po , and the Arno and the Peacoat coughing as if he had had enough of that , I said no more . 
I could have carried the catalogue on to a teasing length , though , if I had been in the cruel mind . 
'And after all , said he , 'this looks so dismal ? 'So awful , I returned , 'at night . 
He COULD NOT stand my holding forth . 
We were fain to hold on pretty tight , though close in shore , for the river was swollen and the tide running down very strong . 
We were watching certain water rats of human growth , and lay in the deep shade as quiet as mice our light hidden and our scraps of conversation carried on in whispers . 
Above us , the massive iron girders of the arch were faintly visible , and below us its ponderous shadow seemed to sink down to the bottom of the stream . 
We had been lying here some half an hour . 
With our backs to the wind , it is true but the wind being in a determined temper blew straight through us , and would not take the trouble to go round . 
I would have boarded a fireship to get into action , and mildly suggested as much to my friend Pea . 
'No doubt , says he as patiently as possible 'but shore going tactics wouldn't do with us . 
River thieves can always get rid of stolen property in a moment by dropping it overboard . 
We want to take them WITH the property , so we lurk about and come out upon 'em sharp . 
If they see us or hear us , over it goes . 
Pea's wisdom being indisputable , there was nothing for it but to sit there and be blown through , for another half hour . 
The water rats thinking it wise to abscond at the end of that time without commission of felony , we shot out , disappointed , with the tide . 
'Grim they look , don't they ? said Pea , seeing me glance over my shoulder at the lights upon the bridge , and downward at their long crooked reflections in the river . 
'Very , said I , 'and make one think with a shudder of Suicides . 
What a night for a dreadful leap from that parapet ! 'Aye , but Waterloo's the favourite bridge for making holes in the water from , returned Pea . 
Every colour but black seemed to have departed from the world . 
Even the noises had a black sound to me as the trumpet sounded red to the blind man . 
Our dexterous boat's crew made nothing of the tide , and pulled us gallantly up to Waterloo Bridge . 
Here Pea and I disembarked , passed under the black stone archway , and climbed the steep stone steps . 
, muffled up to the eyes in a thick shawl , and amply great coated and fur capped . 
Waterloo received us with cordiality , and observed of the night that it was 'a Searcher . 
Of course the late Duke of Wellington was the first passenger , and of course he paid his penny , and of course a noble lord preserved it evermore . 
, were invented by Mr. Lethbridge , then property man at Drury Lane Theatre . 
Was it suicide , we wanted to know about ? said Waterloo . 
Ha ! Well , he had seen a good deal of that work , he did assure us . 
She had got to the third seat between the piers , and was on the parapet just a going over , when he caught her and gave her in charge . 
At the police office next morning , she said it was along of trouble and a bad husband . 
'Likely enough , observed Waterloo to Pea and myself , as he adjusted his chin in his shawl . 
Alarm given , watermen put off , lucky escape . 
'This is where it is , said Waterloo . 
What you have got to do , is to mind how you jump in ! There was poor Tom Steele from Dublin . 
He should say the Surrey side . 
Waterloo didn't rightly recollect about that . 
They were compositors , THEY were . 
At the inquest it was giv' in evidence that she had been quarrelling at the Hero of Waterloo , and it was brought in jealousy . 
'Do we ever get madmen ? said Waterloo , in answer to an inquiry of mine . 
'Well , we DO get madmen . 
Yes , we have had one or two escaped from 'Sylums , I suppose . 
He smashed his hat rarely , but his head didn't seem no worse in my opinion on account of his being wrong in it afore . 
Sometimes people haven't got a halfpenny . 
If they are really tired and poor we give 'em one and let 'em through . 
Other people will leave things pocket handkerchiefs mostly . 
, but handkerchiefs is the general thing . 
'Regular customers ? said Waterloo . 
'Lord , yes ! We have regular customers . 
He comes back , he does , as reg'lar as the clock strikes three in the morning , and then can hardly drag one of his old legs after the other . 
He always turns down the water stairs , comes up again , and then goes on down the Waterloo Road . 
He always does the same thing , and never varies a minute . 
Does it every night even Sundays . 
In fact , it was Waterloo's opinion , founded on his observation of that file , that he know'd a trick worth two of it . 
Drives a shaggy little , rough pony , in a sort of a rattle trap arm chair sort of a thing . 
White hair he has , and white whiskers , and muffles himself up with all manner of shawls . 
He comes back again the same afternoon , and we never see more of him for three months . 
He is a captain in the navy retired wery old wery odd and served with Lord Nelson . 
He is particular about drawing his pension at Somerset House afore the clock strikes twelve every quarter . 
I HAVE heerd say that he thinks it wouldn't be according to the Act of Parliament , if he didn't draw it afore twelve . 
, grappled with the apron seizer , permitting the ugly one to run away and how he saved the bank , and captured his man , and consigned him to fine and imprisonment . 
Then did Pea and I once more embark in our four oared galley , and glide swiftly down the river with the tide . 
Then there were the Lumpers , or labourers employed to unload vessels . 
Lumpers also smuggle goods ashore for the crews of vessels . 
Next , said my friend Pea , there were the Truckers less thieves than smugglers , whose business it was to land more considerable parcels of goods than the Lumpers could manage . 
They sometimes sold articles of grocery and so forth , to the crews , in order to cloak their real calling , and get aboard without suspicion . 
Many of them had boats of their own , and made money . 
Sometimes , they dexterously used their dredges to whip away anything that might lie within reach . 
Some of them were mighty neat at this , and the accomplishment was called dry dredging . 
Then , there was a vast deal of property , such as copper nails , sheathing , hardwood , c . 
Everything was wonderfully still for , it wanted full three hours of flood , and nothing seemed awake but a dog here and there . 
Finally , we shook hands with our worthy friend Pea , and ran all the way to Tower Hill , under strong Police suspicion occasionally , before we got warm . 
A WALK IN A WORKHOUSE ON a certain Sunday , I formed one of the congregation assembled in the chapel of a large metropolitan Workhouse . 
With the exception of the clergyman and clerk , and a very few officials , there were none but paupers present . 
The children sat in the galleries the women in the body of the chapel , and in one of the side aisles the men in the remaining aisle . 
The service was decorously performed , though the sermon might have been much better adapted to the comprehension and to the circumstances of the hearers . 
The prayers of the congregation were desired 'for several persons in the various wards dangerously ill and others who were recovering returned their thanks to Heaven . 
Among this congregation , were some evil looking young women , and beetle browed young men but not many perhaps that kind of characters kept away . 
were depressed and subdued , and wanted colour . 
Aged people were there , in every variety . 
Upon the whole , it was the dragon , Pauperism , in a very weak and impotent condition toothless , fangless , drawing his breath heavily enough , and hardly worth chaining up . 
She was the nurse , or wardswoman , of that insalubrious department herself a pauper flabby , raw boned , untidy unpromising and coarse of aspect as need be . 
'All well here ? And enough to eat ? A general chattering and chuckling at last an answer from a volunteer . 
'Oh yes , gentleman ! Bless you , gentleman ! Lord bless the Parish of St . 
So and So , and thankee , gentleman ! Elsewhere , a party of pauper nurses were at dinner . 
, on account of being subject to epileptic fits , and requiring to be removed under the influence of a very bad one . 
The case was noted for inquiry and redress , but she said she had already been there for some weeks . 
If this girl had stolen her mistress's watch , I do not hesitate to say she would have been infinitely better off . 
And this conveys no special imputation on the workhouse of the parish of St . 
So and So , where , on the contrary , I saw many things to commend . 
And it was comfortable to see two mangy pauper rocking horses rampant in a corner . 
In the girls' school , where the dinner was also in progress , everything bore a cheerful and healthy aspect . 
, it would be so much the better . 
Divers of them had been there some long time . 
'Are they never going away ? was the natural inquiry . 
'Most of them are crippled , in some form or other , said the Wardsman , 'and not fit for anything . 
They slunk about , like dispirited wolves or hyaenas and made a pounce at their food when it was served out , much as those animals do . 
The big headed idiot shuffling his feet along the pavement , in the sunlight outside , was a more agreeable object everyway . 
Another old man sitting on his bed , paralytically peeling a boiled potato , lifts his head and stares . 
'Enough to eat ? No answer . 
Another old man , in bed , turns himself and coughs . 
'How are YOU to day ? To the last old man . 
That old man says nothing but another old man , a tall old man of very good address , speaking with perfect correctness , comes forward from somewhere , and volunteers an answer . 
The reply almost always proceeds from a volunteer , and not from the person looked at or spoken to . 
'We are very old , sir , in a mild , distinct voice . 
'We can't expect to be well , most of us . 
'Are you comfortable ? 'I have no complaint to make , sir . 
With a half shake of his head , a half shrug of his shoulders , and a kind of apologetic smile . 
'Enough to eat ? 'Why , sir , I have but a poor appetite , with the same air as before 'and yet I get through my allowance very easily . 
'But , showing a porringer with a Sunday dinner in it 'here is a portion of mutton , and three potatoes . 
You can't starve on that ? 'Oh dear no , sir , with the same apologetic air . 
'What do you want ? 'We have very little bread , sir . 
It's an exceedingly small quantity of bread . 
The nurse , who is now rubbing her hands at the questioner's elbow , interferes with , 'It ain't much raly , sir . 
You see they've only six ounces a day , and when they've took their breakfast , there CAN only be a little left for night , sir . 
Another old man , hitherto invisible , rises out of his bed clothes , as out of a grave , and looks on . 
'You have tea at night ? The questioner is still addressing the well spoken old man . 
'Yes , sir , we have tea at night . 
'And you save what bread you can from the morning , to eat with it ? 'Yes , sir if we can save any . 
'And you want more to eat with it ? 'Yes , sir . 
With a very anxious face . 
The questioner , in the kindness of his heart , appears a little discomposed , and changes the subject . 
'What has become of the old man who used to lie in that bed in the corner ? The nurse don't remember what old man is referred to . 
There has been such a many old men . 
The well spoken old man is doubtful . 
The spectral old man who has come to life in bed , says , 'Billy Stevens . 
Another old man who has previously had his head in the fireplace , pipes out , 'Charley Walters . 
Something like a feeble interest is awakened . 
I suppose Charley Walters had conversation in him . 
'He's dead , says the piping old man . 
Another old man , with one eye screwed up , hastily displaces the piping old man , and says . 
'Yes ! Charley Walters died in that bed , and and 'Billy Stevens , persists the spectral old man . 
subside , and the spectral old man goes into his grave again , and takes the shade of Billy Stevens with him . 
It has always done my complaint so much good , sir . 
This Puissant Prince was married to a lovely Princess whose name was Fair Freedom . 
He could not by any means get servants to suit him , and he had a tyrannical old godmother , whose name was Tape . 
She was a Fairy , this Tape , and was a bright red all over . 
She was disgustingly prim and formal , and could never bend herself a hair's breadth this way or that way , out of her naturally crooked shape . 
But , she was very potent in her wicked art . 
She could stop the fastest thing in the world , change the strongest thing into the weakest , and the most useful into the most useless . 
To do this she had only to put her cold hand upon it , and repeat her own name , Tape . 
But , whenever they submitted their models for the Prince's approval , his godmother stepped forward , laid her hand upon them , and said 'Tape . 
This was not on the whole an advantageous state of things for Prince Bull , to the best of my understanding . 
I have said this was the worst of it , but there I was wrong , because there is a worse consequence still , behind . 
Such was the aspect of affairs at the court of Prince Bull , when this great Prince found it necessary to go to war with Prince Bear . 
Though , that some of them had excellent characters from previous situations is not to be denied . 
Well Prince Bull called his servants together , and said to them one and all , 'Send out my army against Prince Bear . 
Who ever heard ME complain of money well laid out ! Which indeed he had reason for saying , inasmuch as he was well known to be a truly generous and munificent Prince . 
'Oho ! says this wicked Fairy . 
Tape ! And then the business all went wrong , whatever it was , and the servants' heads became so addled and muddled that they thought they were doing wonders . 
'A pleasant voyage , my darlings . 
So , he called to him a Roebuck who had the gift of speech , and he said , 'Good Roebuck , tell them they must go . 
And now comes the most extraordinary part of the history of this Prince . 
When he had turned out those servants , of course he wanted others . 
And all this time Prince Bull's affairs were going to rack and ruin . 
At last , Prince Bull in the height of his perplexity assumed a thoughtful face , as if he were struck by an entirely new idea . 
'Aye , truly ? says the Fairy . 
'Aye , truly , says the Prince . 
'And what then ? says the Fairy . 
A PLATED ARTICLE PUTTING up for the night in one of the chiefest towns of Staffordshire , I find it to be by no means a lively town . 
In fact , it is as dull and dead a town as any one could desire not to see . 
It seems as if its whole population might be imprisoned in its Railway Station . 
The Refreshment Room at that Station is a vortex of dissipation compared with the extinct town inn , the Dodo , in the dull High Street . 
They are not the two earthy ploughmen lounging outside the saddler's shop , in the stiff square where the Town Hall stands , like a brick and mortar private on parade . 
They are not the landlady of the Dodo in the empty bar , whose eye had trouble in it and no welcome , when I asked for dinner . 
of the inhabitants , and could now rest a little . 
But , the Dodo's habits are all wrong . 
The Dodo has nothing in the larder . 
The Dodo excludes the outer air . 
When I mount up to my bedroom , a smell of closeness and flue gets lazily up my nose like sleepy snuff . 
The loose little bits of carpet writhe under my tread , and take wormy shapes . 
The Dodo has seen better days , and possesses interminable stables at the back silent , grass grown , broken windowed , horseless . 
This mournful bird can fry a sole , however , which is much . 
Can cook a steak , too , which is more . 
Would it unman a Spanish exile by reminding him of his native land at all ? I think not . 
He appears to have a silent sorrow on him , and it may be that . 
No book , no newspaper ! I left the Arabian Nights in the railway carriage , and have nothing to read but Bradshaw , and 'that way madness lies . 
What if I write something ? The Dodo keeps no pens but steel pens and those I always stick through the paper , and can turn to no other account . 
He would never hold up his head again if he touched it . 
Copeland ! Stop a moment . 
I appeal to the plate . 
The plate says , decidedly , yesterday . 
I find the plate , as I look at it , growing into a companion . 
, it can't be necessary for me to remind you that all ornamental articles , and indeed all articles not quite circular , are made in moulds . 
with brown circles and blue trees converting it into the common crockery ware that is exported to Africa , and used in cottages at home . 
This reflection prompts me to transfer my attention from the blue plate to the forlorn but cheerfully painted vase on the sideboard . 
Doubtless , you observed that one sort of glaze called printing body is burnt into the better sort of ware BEFORE it is printed . 
Upon this you saw some of the finest steel engravings transferred , to be fixed by an after glazing didn't you ? Why , of course you did ! Of course I did . 
So , listening to the plate's reminders , and musing upon them , I got through the evening after all , and went to bed . 
OUR HONOURABLE FRIEND WE are delighted to find that he has got in ! Our honourable friend is triumphantly returned to serve in the next Parliament . 
He is the honourable member for Verbosity the best represented place in England . 
Our honourable friend has issued an address of congratulation to the Electors , which is worthy of that noble constituency , and is a very pretty piece of composition . 
In electing him , he says , they have covered themselves with glory , and England has been true to herself . 
Our honourable friend has sat in several parliaments , and given bushels of votes . 
He is a man of that profundity in the matter of vote giving , that you never know what he means . 
When he seems to be voting pure white , he may be in reality voting jet black . 
When he says Yes , it is just as likely as not or rather more so that he means No. This is the statesmanship of our honourable friend . 
It is in this , that he differs from mere unparliamentary men . 
Our honourable friend , the member for Verbosity , has this great attribute , that he always means something , and always means the same thing . 
The dozen noblemen and gentlemen whom our honourable friend supported , had 'come in , expressly to do a certain thing . 
This , it was apprehended , would be a stumbling block to our honourable friend . 
The difficulty came before our honourable friend , in this way . 
! He might be asked , he observed in a peroration of great power , what were his principles ? His principles were what they always had been . 
His principles were , Britannia and her sea king trident ! His principles were , commercial prosperity co existently with perfect and profound agricultural contentment but short of this he would never stop . 
His principles were these , concurrently with a general revision of something speaking generally and a possible readjustment of something else , not to be mentioned more particularly . 
His principles , to sum up all in a word , were , Hearths and Altars , Labour and Capital , Crown and Sceptre , Elephant and Castle . 
was there , willing and ready to give it . 
His warmest supporters present , and those who were best acquainted with his generalship , supposed that the moment was come when he would fall back upon the sacred bulwarks of our nationality . 
to know what I mean ? 'I do ! says Tipkisson , amid cries of 'Shame' and 'Down with him . 
'Gentlemen , says our honourable friend , 'I will indulge my good friend Tipkisson , by telling him , both what I mean and what I don't mean . 
was hooted down and hustled out , and has ever since been regarded as a Turkish Renegade who contemplates an early pilgrimage to Mecca . 
Nor was he the only discomfited man . 
They decided for our honourable friend , and rallied round the illimitable perspective . 
It has been claimed for our honourable friend , with much appearance of reason , that he was the first to bend sacred matters to electioneering tactics . 
always professes in public more anxiety than the whole Bench of Bishops , regarding the theological and doxological opinions of every man , woman , and child , in the United Kingdom . 
Our honourable friend cannot come in for Verbosity too often . 
It is a good sign it is a great example . 
between two such men as our honourable friend , it stimulates the finest emotions of our nature , and awakens the highest admiration of which our heads and hearts are capable . 
It is not too much to predict that our honourable friend will be always at his post in the ensuing session . 
OUR SCHOOL WE went to look at it , only this last Midsummer , and found that the Railway had cut it up root and branch . 
It seems as if our schools were doomed to be the sport of change . 
We have faint recollections of a Preparatory Day School , which we have sought in vain , and which must have been pulled down to make a new street , ages ago . 
We have dim impressions , scarcely amounting to a belief , that it was over a dyer's shop . 
From an otherwise unaccountable association of him with a fiddle , we conclude that he was of French extraction , and his name FIDELE . 
He belonged to some female , chiefly inhabiting a back parlour , whose life appears to us to have been consumed in sniffing , and in wearing a brown beaver bonnet . 
For her , he would sit up and balance cake upon his nose , and not eat it until twenty had been counted . 
Why a something in mourning , called 'Miss Frost , should still connect itself with our preparatory school , we are unable to say . 
An equally impersonal boy , whose name has long since shaped itself unalterably into 'Master Mawls , is not to be dislodged from our brain . 
Retaining no vindictive feeling towards Mawls no feeling whatever , indeed we infer that neither he nor we can have loved Miss Frost . 
Our first impression of Death and Burial is associated with this formless pair . 
It is the only distinct recollection we preserve of these impalpable creatures , except a suspicion that the manners of Master Mawls were susceptible of much improvement . 
But , the School that was Our School before the Railroad came and overthrew it , was quite another sort of place . 
We were old enough to be put into Virgil when we went there , and to get Prizes for a variety of polishing on which the rust has long accumulated . 
It was a School of some celebrity in its neighbourhood nobody could have said why and we had the honour to attain and hold the eminent position of first boy . 
The master was supposed among us to know nothing , and one of the ushers was supposed to know everything . 
We are still inclined to think the first named supposition perfectly correct . 
We have a general idea that its subject had been in the leather trade , and had bought us meaning Our School of another proprietor who was immensely learned . 
Whether this belief had any real foundation , we are not likely ever to know now . 
The only branches of education with which he showed the least acquaintance , were , ruling and corporally punishing . 
We have no doubt whatever that this occupation was the principal solace of his existence . 
A profound respect for money pervaded Our School , which was , of course , derived from its Chief . 
He was usually called 'Mr . 
by the Chief , and was said to feed in the parlour on steaks and gravy likewise to drink currant wine . 
This production was received with great favour , and was twice performed with closed doors in the dining room . 
But , it got wind , and was seized as libellous , and brought the unlucky poet into severe affliction . 
Some two years afterwards , all of a sudden one day , Dumbledon vanished . 
It was whispered that the Chief himself had taken him down to the Docks , and re shipped him for the Spanish Main but nothing certain was ever known about his disappearance . 
At this hour , we cannot thoroughly disconnect him from California . 
Our School was rather famous for mysterious pupils . 
The gloomier spirits even said that he was going to buy us against which contingency , conspiracies were set on foot for a general defection and running away . 
However , he never did that . 
, was the son of a Viscount who had deserted his lovely mother . 
It was understood that if he had his rights , he would be worth twenty thousand a year . 
And that if his mother ever met his father , she would shoot him with a silver pistol , which she carried , always loaded to the muzzle , for that purpose . 
He was a very suggestive topic . 
to have a dagger about him somewhere . 
We suspect this to have been a fiction but he lived upon it all the time he was at Our School . 
The principal currency of Our School was slate pencil . 
It had some inexplicable value , that was never ascertained , never reduced to a standard . 
To have a great hoard of it was somehow to be rich . 
We used to bestow it in charity , and confer it as a precious boon upon our chosen friends . 
Personally , we always contributed these tokens of sympathy in the form of slate pencil , and always felt that it would be a comfort and a treasure to them . 
Our School was remarkable for white mice . 
Red polls , linnets , and even canaries , were kept in desks , drawers , hat boxes , and other strange refuges for birds but white mice were the favourite stock . 
The boys trained the mice , much better than the masters trained the boys . 
The mice were the occasion of some most ingenious engineering , in the construction of their houses and instruments of performance . 
The famous one belonged to a company of proprietors , some of whom have since made Railroads , Engines , and Telegraphs the chairman has erected mills and bridges in New Zealand . 
, and further that he 'favoured Maxby . 
As we remember , he taught Italian to Maxby's sisters on half holidays . 
He once went to the play with them , and wore a white waistcoat and a rose which was considered among us equivalent to a declaration . 
But , we all liked him for he had a good knowledge of boys , and would have made it a much better school if he had had more power . 
He was writing master , mathematical master , English master , made out the bills , mended the pens , and did all sorts of things . 
, and he always called at parents' houses to inquire after sick boys , because he had gentlemanly manners . 
was a dairy fed pork butcher . 
He has been dead these twenty years . 
He was a very good scholar , and took great pains where he saw intelligence and a desire to learn otherwise , perhaps not . 
with as little energy as colour as having been worried and tormented into monotonous feebleness as having had the best part of his life ground out of him in a Mill of boys . 
Blinkins , are you ill , sir ? how he blushingly replied , 'Sir , rather so how the Chief retorted with severity , 'Mr . 
, if the Chief offended him , he would instantly address the Chief in French , and for ever confound him before the boys with his inability to understand or reply . 
There was besides , a serving man , whose name was Phil . 
Our retrospective glance presents Phil as a shipwrecked carpenter , cast away upon the desert island of a school , and carrying into practice an ingenious inkling of many trades . 
He mended whatever was broken , and made whatever was wanted . 
of ninepence , for every square charged three and six to parents . 
We had a high opinion of his mechanical genius , and generally held that the Chief 'knew something bad of him , and on pain of divulgence enforced Phil to be his bondsman . 
He was an impenetrable man , who waited at table between whiles , and throughout 'the half' kept the boxes in severe custody . 
Nevertheless , one time when we had the scarlet fever in the school , Phil nursed all the sick boys of his own accord , and was like a mother to them . 
There was another school not far off , and of course Our School could have nothing to say to that school . 
It is mostly the way with schools , whether of boys or men . 
Well ! the railway has swallowed up ours , and the locomotives now run smoothly over its ashes . 
So fades and languishes , grows dim and dies , All that this world is proud of , and is not proud of , too . 
It had little reason to be proud of Our School , and has done much better since in that way , and will do far better yet . 
OUR VESTRY WE have the glorious privilege of being always in hot water if we like . 
We are a shareholder in a Great Parochial British Joint Stock Bank of Balderdash . 
We have a Vestry in our borough , and can vote for a vestryman might even BE a vestryman , mayhap , if we were inspired by a lofty and noble ambition . 
Our Vestry is a deliberative assembly of the utmost dignity and importance . 
Like the Senate of ancient Rome , its awful gravity overpowers barbarian visitors . 
, chiefly on Saturdays , and shakes the earth to its centre with the echoes of its thundering eloquence , in a Sunday paper . 
To get into this Vestry in the eminent capacity of Vestryman , gigantic efforts are made , and Herculean exertions used . 
Who they are , or what they are , or where they are , nobody knows but , whatever one asserts , the other contradicts . 
They require the additional aid of whole rows of notes of admiration , like balloons , to point their generous indignation and they sometimes communicate a crushing severity to stars . 
As thus MEN OF MOONEYMOUNT . 
It was to this important public document that one of our first orators , MR . 
In the animated debate to which we refer , no fewer than thirty seven gentlemen , many of them of great eminence , including MR . 
This was a great occasion . 
But , our Vestry shines habitually . 
In asserting its own pre eminence , for instance , it is very strong . 
On the least provocation , or on none , it will be clamorous to know whether it is to be 'dictated to , or 'trampled on , or 'ridden over rough shod . 
Its great watchword is Self government . 
spread over the whole land , in an ever expanding circle of waste , and misery , and death , and widowhood , and orphanage , and desolation . 
But , our Vestry makes short work of any such fellows as these . 
said , amid great cheering , it was the newspapers . 
The noble indignation of our Vestry with that un English institution the Board of Health , under those circumstances , yields one of the finest passages in its history . 
It wouldn't hear of rescue . 
Like Mr. Joseph Miller's Frenchman , it would be drowned and nobody should save it . 
Rare exigencies produce rare things and even our Vestry , new hatched to the woful time , came forth a greater goose than ever . 
But this , again , was a special occasion . 
Our Vestry , at more ordinary periods , demands its meed of praise . 
Our Vestry is eminently parliamentary . 
Playing at Parliament is its favourite game . 
It is even regarded by some of its members as a chapel of ease to the House of Commons a Little Go to be passed first . 
, and our Vestrymen are in and out of order , and on and off their legs , and above all are transcendently quarrelsome , after the pattern of the real original . 
Our Vestry being assembled , Mr. Magg never begs to trouble Mr. Wigsby with a simple inquiry . 
He knows better than that . 
would have consulted with his colleagues in reference to the advisability , in the present state of the discussions on the new paving rate , of answering that question . 
, he must decline to give the honourable gentleman the satisfaction he requires . 
Mr. Magg , instantly rising to retort , is received with loud cries of 'Spoke ! from the Wigsby interest , and with cheers from the Magg side of the house . 
Then our Vestry begins business . 
We have said that , after the pattern of the real original , our Vestry in playing at Parliament is transcendently quarrelsome . 
It enjoys a personal altercation above all things . 
Mr. Tiddypot immediately rose , looked the honourable and gallant gentleman full in the face , and left the Vestry . 
The excitement , at this moment painfully intense , was heightened to an acute degree when Captain Banger rose , and also left the Vestry . 
He said that words and looks had passed in that assembly , replete with consequences which every feeling mind must deplore . 
The sword was drawn , and while he spoke the scabbard might be thrown away . 
He moved that those honourable gentlemen who had left the Vestry be recalled , and required to pledge themselves upon their honour that this affair should go no farther . 
, Mr. Magg was deputed to recover Captain Banger , and Mr. Chib himself to go in search of Mr. Tiddypot . 
, and brought back in safety . 
Mr. Tiddypot remained profoundly silent . 
The most intense emotion now prevailed . 
Several members clustered in remonstrance round the Captain , and several round Mr. Tiddypot but , both were obdurate . 
The union of parties still continuing , the motion was seconded by Mr. Wigsby on all usual occasions Mr. Chib's opponent and rapturously carried with only one dissentient voice . 
This was Dogginson's , who said from his place 'Let 'em fight it out with fistes but whose coarse remark was received as it merited . 
The beadle now advanced along the floor of the Vestry , and beckoned with his cocked hat to both members . 
To say that a pin might have been heard to fall , would be feebly to express the all absorbing interest and silence . 
Suddenly , enthusiastic cheering broke out from every side of the Vestry . 
Captain Banger had risen being , in fact , pulled up by a friend on either side , and poked up by a friend behind . 
Hereupon the Captain sat down , leaving the whole Vestry much affected . 
Mr. Tiddypot instantly rose , and was received with the same encouragement . 
That he too respected the honourable and gallant gentleman of Wilderness Walk but , that he too respected his honour more . 
'Hows'ever , added the distinguished Vestryman , 'if the honourable and gallant gentleman's honour is never more doubted and damaged than it is by me , he's all right . 
These observations were repeatedly interrupted by bursts of cheers . 
honour had imperatively demanded of him that painful course which he had felt it due to his honour to adopt . 
will bring them in as church wardens next year . 
All this was strictly after the pattern of the real original , and so are the whole of our Vestry's proceedings . 
In all their debates , they are laudably imitative of the windy and wordy slang of the real original , and of nothing that is better in it . 
OUR BORE IT is unnecessary to say that we keep a bore . 
in common with the great bore family , that we are tempted to make him the subject of the present notes . 
May he be generally accepted ! Our bore is admitted on all hands to be a good hearted man . 
He may put fifty people out of temper , but he keeps his own . 
His manner is a manner of tranquil interest . 
None of his opinions are startling . 
Nevertheless he is unable to forget that John Bull is John Bull all the world over , and that England with all her faults is England still . 
He could not possibly be a complete bore without having travelled . 
He rarely speaks of his travels without introducing , sometimes on his own plan of construction , morsels of the language of the country which he always translates . 
You cannot name to him any little remote town in France , Italy , Germany , or Switzerland but he knows it well stayed there a fortnight under peculiar circumstances . 
but he thought that YOU would have been the man to find them out . 
We have seen the liveliest men paralysed by it , across a broad dining table . 
There was nobody inside but a CIECO a blind man saying his prayers , and a VECCHIO PADRE old friar rattling a money box . 
There is no doubt of it . 
It is astonishing that that picture is so little known . 
Even the painter is uncertain . 
, and you never saw a man so affected in your life as Blumb was . 
He cried like a child ! And then our bore begins his description in detail for all this is introductory and strangles his hearers with the folds of the purple drapery . 
This is how it was , sir . 
'MONSIEUR , CE N'EST RIEN DE TOUT sir , it's nothing at all , said Pierre . 
I am bent upon it JE SUIS DETERMINE . 
The peasant girls kissed him , the men shook hands with him , one old lady of benevolent appearance wept upon his breast . 
and her charming daughter , Fanchette . 
It is nothing to say that they were attentive to him they doted on him . 
They called him in their simple way , L'ANGE ANGLAIS the English Angel . 
When our bore left the valley , there was not a dry eye in the place some of the people attended him for miles . 
, you will go to that valley , and see Swiss scenery for the first time . 
, and carrying other bits about in his pocket book . 
It is even whispered that he has been seen at the Foreign Office , receiving great consideration from the messengers , and having his card promptly borne into the sanctuary of the temple . 
The havoc committed in society by this Eastern brother is beyond belief . 
Our bore is always ready with him . 
He became omniscient , as to foreign policy , in the smoking of those pipes with Mehemet Ali . 
The commonest incidents and places would appear to have been made special , expressly for our bore . 
Ask him whether he ever chanced to walk , between seven and eight in the morning , down St . 
James's Street , London , and he will tell you , never in his life but once . 
It happened in this way . 
All was quiet , dark , and solitary . 
In harmony and union with these experiences , our bore never went anywhere in a steamboat but he made either the best or the worst voyage ever known on that station . 
the experiment of going at the rate of a hundred to miles an hour . 
He and the bishop heard it at the same moment , and caught each other's eye . 
He was present at that illumination of St . 
He knows there is no fancy in it , because in every case the showman mentioned the fact at the time , and congratulated him upon it . 
At one period of his life , our bore had an illness . 
It was an illness of a dangerous character for society at large . 
Innocently remark that you are not well , or that somebody else is not well , and the same inevitable result ensues . 
Callow said , 'Liver ! and prescribed rhubarb and calomel , low diet , and moderate exercise . 
Our bore went on with this treatment , getting worse every day , until he lost confidence in Callow , and went to Moon , whom half the town was then mad about . 
This went on , our bore still getting worse every day , until he openly told Moon it would be a satisfaction to him if he would have a consultation with Clatter . 
Being in that condition in which a drowning man catches at a straw , our bore sent for Jilkins . 
Our bore liked his eye , and said , 'Mr . 
Jilkins , I have a presentiment that you will do me good . 
Jilkins's reply was characteristic of the man . 
It was , 'Sir , I mean to do you good . 
This confirmed our bore's opinion of his eye , and they went into the case together went completely into it . 
Jilkins then got up , walked across the room , came back , and sat down . 
This is a case of indigestion , occasioned by deficiency of power in the Stomach . 
Take a mutton chop in half an hour , with a glass of the finest old sherry that can be got for money . 
Take two mutton chops to morrow , and two glasses of the finest old sherry . 
Next day , I'll come again . 
In a week our bore was on his legs , and Jilkins's success dates from that period ! Our bore is great in secret information . 
He happens to know many things that nobody else knows . 
He can generally tell you where the split is in the Ministry he knows a great deal about the Queen and has little anecdotes to relate of the royal nursery . 
He gives you the judge's private opinion of Sludge the murderer , and his thoughts when he tried him . 
He happens to know what such a man got by such a transaction , and it was fifteen thousand five hundred pounds , and his income is twelve thousand a year . 
Our bore is also great in mystery . 
He believes , with an exasperating appearance of profound meaning , that you saw Parkins last Sunday ? Yes , you did . 
Did he say anything particular ? No , nothing particular . 
Our bore is surprised at that . 
Only he understood that Parkins had come to tell you something . 
What about ? Well ! our bore is not at liberty to mention what about . 
But , he believes you will hear that from Parkins himself , soon , and he hopes it may not surprise you as it did him . 
Perhaps , however , you never heard about Parkins's wife's sister ? No. Ah ! says our bore , that explains it ! Our bore is also great in argument . 
He infinitely enjoys a long humdrum , drowsy interchange of words of dispute about nothing . 
He considers that it strengthens the mind , consequently , he 'don't see that , very often . 
Or , he would be glad to know what you mean by that . 
Or , he doubts that . 
Or , he has always understood exactly the reverse of that . 
Or , he can't admit that . 
Or , he begs to deny that . 
Or , surely you don't mean that . 
The instinct with which our bore finds out another bore , and closes with him , is amazing . 
We have seen him pick his man out of fifty men , in a couple of minutes . 
into a slow argument on a previously exhausted subject , and to contradict each other , and to wear the hearers out , without impairing their own perennial freshness as bores . 
It improves the good understanding between them , and they get together afterwards , and bore each other amicably . 
And this bringing us to the close of what we had to say about our bore , we are anxious to have it understood that he never bestowed this praise on us . 
For example , we understand that every Frenchman , without exception , wears a pigtail and curl papers . 
That he is extremely sallow , thin , long faced , and lantern jawed . 
That the calves of his legs are invariably undeveloped that his legs fail at the knees , and that his shoulders are always higher than his ears . 
He is a slave , of course . 
It may be generally summed up , of this inferior people , that they have no idea of anything . 
Of a great Institution like Smithfield , they are unable to form the least conception . 
A Beast Market in the heart of Paris would be regarded an impossible nuisance . 
Nor have they any notion of slaughter houses in the midst of a city . 
One of these benighted frog eaters would scarcely understand your meaning , if you told him of the existence of such a British bulwark . 
It is agreeable , and perhaps pardonable , to indulge in a little self complacency when our right to it is thoroughly established . 
apple of the Corporation's eye , let us compare ourselves , to our national delight and pride as to these two subjects of slaughter house and beast market , with the outlandish foreigner . 
Any market day they may be beheld in glorious action . 
Possibly the merits of our slaughter houses are not yet quite so generally appreciated . 
most numerous in the most densely crowded places , where there is the least circulation of air . 
in the very shops where the meat is sold . 
Occasionally , under good private management , they are ventilated and clean . 
For the most part , they are unventilated and dirty and , to the reeking walls , putrid fat and other offensive animal matter clings with a tenacious hold . 
The busiest slaughter houses in London are in the neighbourhood of Smithfield , in Newgate Market , in Whitechapel , in Newport Market , in Leadenhall Market , in Clare Market . 
All these places are surrounded by houses of a poor description , swarming with inhabitants . 
Some of them are close to the worst burial grounds in London . 
When the slaughter house is below the ground , it is a common practice to throw the sheep down areas , neck and crop which is exciting , but not at all cruel . 
When it is on the level surface , it is often extremely difficult of approach . 
When it is not difficult of approach , but is in a foul condition , what they see and scent makes them still more reluctant to enter which is their natural obstinacy again . 
It is quite a mistake a newfangled notion altogether to suppose that there is any natural antagonism between putrefaction and health . 
They know better than that , in the Common Council . 
Nature very often don't mean anything . 
Britons never , never , never , c . 
the jackals and wild dogs came at night to devour the offal whereas , here there are no such natural scavengers , and quite as savage customs . 
But , this is cant . 
In Paris , there is no Cattle Market . 
The Poissy market is held every Thursday the Sceaux market , every Monday . 
In Paris , there are no slaughter houses , in our acceptation of the term . 
There are five public Abattoirs within the walls , though in the suburbs and in these all the slaughtering for the city must be performed . 
They are , likewise , under the vigilant superintendence of the police . 
Every arrangement in connexion with the slaughtering and sale of meat , is matter of strict police regulation . 
The sun was up , and shining merrily when the butchers and I , announcing our departure with an engine shriek to sleepy Paris , rattled away for the Cattle Market . 
I know your narrow , straggling , winding streets , with a kennel in the midst , and lamps slung across . 
Hasty payment and departure on the part of amateur Visitor . 
Madame reproaches Ma'amselle for too fine a susceptibility in reference to the devotion of a Butcher in a bear skin . 
Monsieur , the landlord of The Glory , counts a double handful of sous , without an unobliterated inscription , or an undamaged crowned head , among them . 
There is little noise without , abundant space , and no confusion . 
The open area devoted to the market is divided into three portions the Calf Market , the Cattle Market , the Sheep Market . 
Calves at eight , cattle at ten , sheep at mid day . 
Plenty of time plenty of room plenty of good humour . 
'Monsieur Francois in the bear skin , how do you do , my friend ? You come from Paris by the train ? The fresh air does you good . 
If you are in want of three or four fine calves this market morning , my angel , I , Madame Doche , shall be happy to deal with you . 
Behold these calves , Monsieur Francois ! Great Heaven , you are doubtful ! Well , sir , walk round and look about you . 
If you find better for the money , buy them . 
If not , come to me ! Monsieur Francois goes his way leisurely , and keeps a wary eye upon the stock . 
No other butcher jostles Monsieur Francois Monsieur Francois jostles no other butcher . 
Nobody is flustered and aggravated . 
Slavery ! For OUR Police wear great coats and glazed hats . 
But now the bartering is over , and the calves are sold . 
Here is a promising young calf , not sold , whom Madame Doche unbinds . 
Pardon me , Madame Doche , but I fear this mode of tying the four legs of a quadruped together , though strictly a la mode , is not quite right . 
But , what is this rubbing against me , as I apostrophise Madame Doche ? It is another heated infant with a calf upon his head . 
'Pardon , Monsieur , but will you have the politeness to allow me to pass ? 'Ah , sir , willingly . 
I am vexed to obstruct the way . 
On he staggers , calf and all , and makes no allusion whatever either to my eyes or limbs . 
Now , the carts are all full . 
We can neither choose our road , nor our pace , for that is all prescribed to us . 
, and woe betide us if we infringe orders . 
Drovers of oxen stand in the Cattle Market , tied to iron bars fixed into posts of granite . 
Plenty of room plenty of time . 
No tail twisting is necessary no iron pronging is necessary . 
There are no iron prongs here . 
The market for cattle is held as quietly as the market for calves . 
The sheep pens are up here , past the Branch Bank of Paris established for the convenience of the butchers , and behind the two pretty fountains they are making in the Market . 
My name is Bull yet I think I should like to see as good twin fountains not to say in Smithfield , but in England anywhere . 
Plenty of room plenty of time . 
The market for sheep passes off like the other two and away they go , by THEIR allotted road to Paris . 
After the Market comes the Abattoir . 
What abattoir shall I visit first ? Montmartre is the largest . 
So I will go there . 
They are managed by the Syndicat or Guild of Butchers , under the inspection of the Police . 
They cost six hundred and eighty thousand pounds and they return to the city of Paris an interest on that outlay , amounting to nearly six and a half per cent . 
At the iron gates is a small functionary in a large cocked hat . 
'Monsieur desires to see the abattoir ? Most certainly . 
Many of the animals from Poissy have come here . 
On the arrival of each drove , it was turned into yonder ample space , where each butcher who had bought , selected his own purchases . 
Some , we see now , in these long perspectives of stalls with a high over hanging roof of wood and open tiles rising above the walls . 
While they rest here , before being slaughtered , they are required to be fed and watered , and the stalls must be kept clean . 
A stated amount of fodder must always be ready in the loft above and the supervision is of the strictest kind . 
The same regulations apply to sheep and calves for which , portions of these perspectives are strongly railed off . 
All the buildings are of the strongest and most solid description . 
They are all exactly alike , and adjoin each other , to the number of eight or nine together , in blocks of solid building . 
Let us walk into the first . 
It is firmly built and paved with stone . 
It is well lighted , thoroughly aired , and lavishly provided with fresh water . 
The pavement of that yard , I see , slopes downward to a gutter , for its being more easily cleansed . 
The slaughter house is fifteen feet high , sixteen feet and a half wide , and thirty three feet long . 
Upon the pavement of this first stone chamber , lies an ox scarcely dead . 
If I except the blood draining from him , into a little stone well in a corner of the pavement , the place is free from offence as the Place de la Concorde . 
It is infinitely purer and cleaner , I know , my friend the functionary , than the Cathedral of Notre Dame . 
Ha , ha ! Monsieur is pleasant , but , truly , there is reason , too , in what he says . 
I look into another of these slaughter houses . 
'Pray enter , says a gentleman in bloody boots . 
'This is a calf I have killed this morning . 
Having a little time upon my hands , I have cut and punctured this lace pattern in the coats of his stomach . 
I did it to divert myself . 
'It is beautiful , Monsieur , the slaughterer ! He tells me I have the gentility to say so . 
I look into rows of slaughter houses . 
In many , retail dealers , who have come here for the purpose , are making bargains for meat . 
Hence , all the meat that goes out of the gate is sent away in clean covered carts . 
, whether there could be better regulations than those which are carried out at the Abattoir of Montmartre . 
Such is the Monument of French Folly which a foreigneering people have erected , in a national hatred and antipathy for common counselling wisdom . 
In all human probability we shall thus come , at last , to erect a monument of folly very like this French monument . 
If that be done , the consequences are obvious . 
fall on that unhappy landed interest which is always being killed , yet is always found to be alive and kicking . 
Give a bill Three months' imprisonment as reputed thieves . 
