Travels with a Donkey in the Cevennes by Robert Louis Stevenson . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
uk Travels with a Donkey in the Cevennes My Dear Sidney Colvin , The journey which this little book is to describe was very agreeable and fortunate for me . 
After an uncouth beginning , I had the best of luck to the end . 
He is a fortunate voyager who finds many . 
We travel , indeed , to find them . 
They are the end and the reward of life . 
They keep us worthy of ourselves and when we are alone , we are only nearer to the absent . 
Every book is , in an intimate sense , a circular letter to the friends of him who writes it . 
They alone take his meaning they find private messages , assurances of love , and expressions of gratitude , dropped for them in every corner . 
The public is but a generous patron who defrays the postage . 
Yet through the letter is directed to all , we have an old and kindly custom of addressing it on the outside to one . 
He masters by his devices the tenant of the fields . 
Who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass ? JOB . 
Monastier is notable for the making of lace , for drunkenness , for freedom of language , and for unparalleled political dissension . 
Except for business purposes , or to give each other the lie in a tavern brawl , they have laid aside even the civility of speech . 
'Tis a mere mountain Poland . 
In the midst of this Babylon I found myself a rallying point every one was anxious to be kind and helpful to the stranger . 
A traveller of my sort was a thing hitherto unheard of in that district . 
It was already hard upon October before I was ready to set forth , and at the high altitudes over which my road lay there was no Indian summer to be looked for . 
A tent , above all for a solitary traveller , is troublesome to pitch , and troublesome to strike again and even on the march it forms a conspicuous feature in your baggage . 
This is a huge point . 
It was commodious as a valise , warm and dry for a bed . 
There was luxurious turning room for one and at a pinch the thing might serve for two . 
It will readily be conceived that I could not carry this huge package on my own , merely human , shoulders . 
It remained to choose a beast of burden . 
What I required was something cheap and small and hardy , and of a stolid and peaceful temper and all these requisites pointed to a donkey . 
There dwelt an old man in Monastier , of rather unsound intellect according to some , much followed by street boys , and known to fame as Father Adam . 
There was something neat and high bred , a quakerish elegance , about the rogue that hit my fancy on the spot . 
Our first interview was in Monastier market place . 
At length she passed into my service for the consideration of sixty five francs and a glass of brandy . 
The sack had already cost eighty francs and two glasses of beer so that Modestine , as I instantly baptized her , was upon all accounts the cheaper article . 
Indeed , that was as it should be for she was only an appurtenance of my mattress , or self acting bedstead on four castors . 
I had a last interview with Father Adam in a billiard room at the witching hour of dawn , when I administered the brandy . 
He had a name in the village for brutally misusing the ass yet it is certain that he shed a tear , and the tear made a clean mark down one cheek . 
By the advice of a fallacious local saddler , a leather pad was made for me with rings to fasten on my bundle and I thoughtfully completed my kit and arranged my toilette . 
The permanent larder was represented by cakes of chocolate and tins of Bologna sausage . 
Monastrians , of all shades of thought in politics , had agreed in threatening me with many ludicrous misadventures , and with sudden death in many surprising forms . 
Cold , wolves , robbers , above all the nocturnal practical joker , were daily and eloquently forced on my attention . 
Yet in these vaticinations , the true , patent danger was left out . 
Like Christian , it was from my pack I suffered by the way . 
Before telling my own mishaps , let me in two words relate the lesson of my experience . 
If the pack is well strapped at the ends , and hung at full length not doubled , for your life across the pack saddle , the traveller is safe . 
On the day of my departure I was up a little after five by six , we began to load the donkey and ten minutes after , my hopes were in the dust . 
The pad would not stay on Modestine's back for half a moment . 
I returned it to its maker , with whom I had so contumelious a passage that the street outside was crowded from wall to wall with gossips looking on and listening . 
I had a common donkey pack saddle a BARDE , as they call it fitted upon Modestine and once more loaded her with my effects . 
That elaborate system of knots , again , was the work of too many sympathisers to be very artfully designed . 
THE GREEN DONKEY DRIVER THE bell of Monastier was just striking nine as I got quit of these preliminary troubles and descended the hill through the common . 
As long as I was within sight of the windows , a secret shame and the fear of some laughable defeat withheld me from tampering with Modestine . 
Modestine brisked up her pace for perhaps three steps , and then relapsed into her former minuet . 
Another application had the same effect , and so with the third . 
I am worthy the name of an Englishman , and it goes against my conscience to lay my hand rudely on a female . 
God forbid , thought I , that I should brutalise this innocent creature let her go at her own pace , and let me patiently follow . 
The thought that this was to last from here to Alais nearly broke my heart . 
Of all conceivable journeys , this promised to be the most tedious . 
He overtook us hand over hand , and stopped to consider our pitiful advance . 
'Your donkey , says he , 'is very old ? I told him , I believed not . 
Then , he supposed , we had come far . 
I told him , we had but newly left Monastier . 
'ET VOUS MARCHEZ COMME CA ! cried he and , throwing back his head , he laughed long and heartily . 
Her former panting and shaking had been , I regret to say , a piece of comedy . 
But it was not my turn for the moment . 
I was proud of my new lore , and thought I had learned the art to perfection . 
And certainly Modestine did wonders for the rest of the fore noon , and I had a breathing space to look about me . 
It was Sabbath the mountain fields were all vacant in the sunshine and as we came down through St . 
It is only a traveller , hurrying by like a person from another planet , who can rightly enjoy the peace and beauty of the great ascetic feast . 
The sight of the resting country does his spirit good . 
There is something better than music in the wide unusual silence and it disposes him to amiable thoughts , like the sound of a little river or the warmth of sunlight . 
Above and below , you may hear it wimpling over the stones , an amiable stripling of a river , which it seems absurd to call the Loire . 
I hurried over my midday meal , and was early forth again . 
But , alas , as we climbed the interminable hill upon the other side , 'Proot ! seemed to have lost its virtue . 
I prooted like a lion , I prooted mellifluously like a sucking dove but Modestine would be neither softened nor intimidated . 
She held doggedly to her pace nothing but a blow would move her , and that only for a second . 
I must follow at her heels , incessantly be labouring . 
A moment's pause in this ignoble toil , and she relapsed into her own private gait . 
I think I never heard of any one in as mean a situation . 
The sound of my own blows sickened me . 
Once , when I looked at her , she had a faint resemblance to a lady of my acquaintance who formerly loaded me with kindness and this increased my horror of my cruelty . 
To make matters worse , we encountered another donkey , ranging at will upon the roadside and this other donkey chanced to be a gentleman . 
He and Modestine met nickering for joy , and I had to separate the pair and beat down their young romance with a renewed and feverish bastinado . 
But the incident saddened me , as did everything that spoke of my donkey's sex . 
It was blazing hot up the valley , windless , with vehement sun upon my shoulders and I had to labour so consistently with my stick that the sweat ran into my eyes . 
And at last , in the village of Ussel , saddle and all , the whole hypothec turned round and grovelled in the dust below the donkey's belly . 
I had the devil's own trouble to get the thing righted and the instant I had done so , without hesitation , it toppled and fell down upon the other side . 
Judge if I was hot ! And yet not a hand was offered to assist me . 
The man , indeed , told me I ought to have a package of a different shape . 
I suggested , if he knew nothing better to the point in my predicament , he might hold his tongue . 
And the good natured dog agreed with me smilingly . 
It was the most despicable fix . 
I believe I may say I am not devoid of greatness of soul for I did not recoil from this infamous burden . 
I disposed it , Heaven knows how , so as to be mildly portable , and then proceeded to steer Modestine through the village . 
A priest , with six or seven others , was examining a church in process of repair , and he and his acolytes laughed loudly as they saw my plight . 
I remembered having laughed myself when I had seen good men struggling with adversity in the person of a jackass , and the recollection filled me with penitence . 
That was in my old light days , before this trouble came upon me . 
I dropped all my bundles , and , I am ashamed to say , struck the poor sinner twice across the face . 
It was pitiful to see her lift her head with shut eyes , as if waiting for another blow . 
Modestine , in the meanwhile , munched some black bread with a contrite hypocritical air . 
It was plain that I must make a sacrifice to the gods of shipwreck . 
Thus I found room for everything in the basket , and even stowed the boating coat on the top . 
I had now an arm free to thrash Modestine , and cruelly I chastised her . 
If I were to reach the lakeside before dark , she must bestir her little shanks to some tune . 
An infinity of little country by roads led hither and thither among the fields . 
It was the most pointless labyrinth . 
The failing light , the waning colour , the naked , unhomely , stony country through which I was travelling , threw me into some despondency . 
I promise you , the stick was not idle I think every decent step that Modestine took must have cost me at least two emphatic blows . 
There was not another sound in the neighbourhood but that of my unwearying bastinado . 
The packing was to begin again from the beginning and as I had to invent a new and better system , I do not doubt but I lost half an hour . 
It began to be dusk in earnest as I reached a wilderness of turf and stones . 
They walked one behind the other like tramps , but their pace was remarkable . 
I hailed the son , and asked him my direction . 
The mother followed without so much as raising her head . 
I shouted and shouted after them , but they continued to scale the hillside , and turned a deaf ear to my outcries . 
At last , leaving Modestine by herself , I was constrained to run after them , hailing the while . 
They stopped as I drew near , the mother still cursing and I could see she was a handsome , motherly , respectable looking woman . 
The son once more answered me roughly and inaudibly , and was for setting out again . 
I replied , in the Scottish manner , by inquiring if she had far to go herself . 
She told me , with another oath , that she had an hour and a half's road before her . 
And then , without salutation , the pair strode forward again up the hillside in the gathering dusk . 
I returned for Modestine , pushed her briskly forward , and , after a sharp ascent of twenty minutes , reached the edge of a plateau . 
The view , looking back on my day's journey , was both wild and sad . 
Mount Mezenc and the peaks beyond St . 
I asked one of the children where I was . 
Nicolas , he told me . 
Thither , about a mile south of my destination , and on the other side of a respectable summit , had these confused roads and treacherous peasantry conducted me . 
I HAVE A GOAD THE AUBERGE of Bouchet St . 
Nicolas was among the least pretentious I have ever visited but I saw many more of the like upon my journey . 
Indeed , it was typical of these French highlands . 
In the kitchen cooking and eating go forward side by side , and the family sleep at night . 
Any one who has a fancy to wash must do so in public at the common table . 
But the people of the inn , in nine cases out of ten , show themselves friendly and considerate . 
At Bouchet , for instance , I uncorked my bottle of Beaujolais , and asked the host to join me . 
He would take but little . 
'I am an amateur of such wine , do you see ? he said , 'and I am capable of leaving you not enough . 
My knife was cordially admired by the landlord of Bouchet , and the spring filled him with wonder . 
'I should never have guessed that , he said . 
'I would bet , he added , weighing it in his hand , 'that this cost you not less than five francs . 
When I told him it had cost me twenty , his jaw dropped . 
He was a mild , handsome , sensible , friendly old man , astonishingly ignorant . 
His wife , who was not so pleasant in her manners , knew how to read , although I do not suppose she ever did so . 
She had a share of brains and spoke with a cutting emphasis , like one who ruled the roast . 
'My man knows nothing , she said , with an angry nod 'he is like the beasts . 
And the old gentleman signified acquiescence with his head . 
There was no contempt on her part , and no shame on his the facts were accepted loyally , and no more about the matter . 
I was tightly cross examined about my journey and the lady understood in a moment , and sketched out what I should put into my book when I got home . 
And she interrogated me with a look . 
'It is just that , said I. 'You see , she added to her husband , 'I understood that . 
They were both much interested by the story of my misadventures . 
'In the morning , said the husband , 'I will make you something better than your cane . 
Such a beast as that feels nothing it is in the proverb DUR COMME UN ANE you might beat her insensible with a cudgel , and yet you would arrive nowhere . 
Something better ! I little knew what he was offering . 
The sleeping room was furnished with two beds . 
I had one and I will own I was a little abashed to find a young man and his wife and child in the act of mounting into the other . 
This was my first experience of the sort and if I am always to feel equally silly and extraneous , I pray God it be my last as well . 
I kept my eyes to myself , and know nothing of the woman except that she had beautiful arms , and seemed no whit embarrassed by my appearance . 
As a matter of fact , the situation was more trying to me than to the pair . 
A pair keep each other in countenance it is the single gentleman who has to blush . 
But I could not help attributing my sentiments to the husband , and sought to conciliate his tolerance with a cup of brandy from my flask . 
He told me that he was a cooper of Alais travelling to St . 
Etienne in search of work , and that in his spare moments he followed the fatal calling of a maker of matches . 
Me he readily enough divined to be a brandy merchant . 
, and hastened my toilette guiltily , so as to leave a clear field for madam , the cooper's wife . 
I drank a bowl of milk , and set off to explore the neighbourhood of Bouchet . 
It was five in the morning , and four thousand feet above the sea and I had to bury my hands in my pockets and trot . 
People were trooping out to the labours of the field by twos and threes , and all turned round to stare upon the stranger . 
I had seen them coming back last night , I saw them going afield again and there was the life of Bouchet in a nutshell . 
When I came back to the inn for a bit of breakfast , the landlady was in the kitchen combing out her daughter's hair and I made her my compliments upon its beauty . 
'Oh no , said the mother 'it is not so beautiful as it ought to be . 
Look , it is too fine . 
Thus does a wise peasantry console itself under adverse physical circumstances , and , by a startling democratic process , the defects of the majority decide the type of beauty . 
'And where , said I , 'is monsieur ? 'The master of the house is upstairs , she answered , 'making you a goad . 
Blessed be the man who invented goads ! Blessed the innkeeper of Bouchet St . 
Nicolas , who introduced me to their use ! This plain wand , with an eighth of an inch of pin , was indeed a sceptre when he put it in my hands . 
Thenceforward Modestine was my slave . 
A prick , and she passed the most inviting stable door . 
A prick , and she broke forth into a gallant little trotlet that devoured the miles . 
It was not a remarkable speed , when all was said and we took four hours to cover ten miles at the best of it . 
But what a heavenly change since yesterday ! No more wielding of the ugly cudgel no more flailing with an aching arm no more broadsword exercise , but a discreet and gentlemanly fence . 
The perverse little devil , since she would not be taken with kindness , must even go with pricking . 
It was bleak and bitter cold , and , except a cavalcade of stride legged ladies and a pair of post runners , the road was dead solitary all the way to Pradelles . 
I scarce remember an incident but one . 
Pradelles stands on a hillside , high above the Allier , surrounded by rich meadows . 
They were cutting aftermath on all sides , which gave the neighbourhood , this gusty autumn morning , an untimely smell of hay . 
It was a cheerless prospect , but one stimulating to a traveller . 
Wolves , alas , like bandits , seem to flee the traveller's advance and you may trudge through all our comfortable Europe , and not meet with an adventure worth the name . 
But here , if anywhere , a man was on the frontiers of hope . 
For this was the land of the ever memorable BEAST , the Napoleon Bonaparte of wolves . 
He was placarded like a political offender , and ten thousand francs were offered for his head . 
And yet , when he was shot and sent to Versailles , behold ! a common wolf , and even small for that . 
M. Elie Berthet has made him the hero of a novel , which I have read , and do not wish to read again . 
On both sides of the road , in big dusty fields , farmers were preparing for next spring . 
Every fifty yards a yoke of great necked stolid oxen were patiently haling at the plough . 
I saw one of these mild formidable servants of the glebe , who took a sudden interest in Modestine and me . 
It was a fine , busy , breathing , rustic landscape and as I continued to descend , the highlands of Gevaudan kept mounting in front of me against the sky . 
I had crossed the Loire the day before now I was to cross the Allier so near are these two confluents in their youth . 
She was evidently one who reckoned on respect , and stood looking after me in silent dudgeon , as I crossed the bridge and entered the county of Gevaudan . 
I was soon out of the cultivated basin of the Allier , and away from the ploughing oxen , and such like sights of the country . 
There was no direct road to Cheylard , and it was no easy affair to make a passage in this uneven country and through this intermittent labyrinth of tracks . 
It must have been about four when I struck Sagnerousse , and went on my way rejoicing in a sure point of departure . 
These were all silently following each other round and round in a circle , now taking hands , now breaking up with chains and reverences . 
A dance of children appeals to very innocent and lively thoughts but , at nightfall on the marshes , the thing was eerie and fantastic to behold . 
Even I , who am well enough read in Herbert Spencer , felt a sort of silence fall for an instant on my mind . 
The next , I was pricking Modestine forward , and guiding her like an unruly ship through the open . 
In a path , she went doggedly ahead of her own accord , as before a fair wind but once on the turf or among heather , and the brute became demented . 
While I was thus desperately tacking through the bog , children and cattle began to disperse , until only a pair of girls remained behind . 
From these I sought direction on my path . 
The peasantry in general were but little disposed to counsel a wayfarer . 
One old devil simply retired into his house , and barricaded the door on my approach and I might beat and shout myself hoarse , he turned a deaf ear . 
Another , having given me a direction which , as I found afterwards , I had misunderstood , complacently watched me going wrong without adding a sign . 
One put out her tongue at me , the other bade me follow the cows and they both giggled and jogged each other's elbows . 
The Beast of Gevaudan ate about a hundred children of this district I began to think of him with sympathy . 
Leaving the girls , I pushed on through the bog , and got into another wood and upon a well marked road . 
It grew darker and darker . 
Modestine , suddenly beginning to smell mischief , bettered the pace of her own accord , and from that time forward gave me no trouble . 
It was the first sign of intelligence I had occasion to remark in her . 
At the same time , the wind freshened into half a gale , and another heavy discharge of rain came flying up out of the north . 
At the other side of the wood I sighted some red windows in the dusk . 
This was the hamlet of Fouzilhic three houses on a hillside , near a wood of birches . 
Here I found a delightful old man , who came a little way with me in the rain to put me safely on the road for Cheylard . 
He would hear of no reward but shook his hands above his head almost as if in menace , and refused volubly and shrilly , in unmitigated PATOIS . 
All seemed right at last . 
My thoughts began to turn upon dinner and a fireside , and my heart was agreeably softened in my bosom . 
Alas , and I was on the brink of new and greater miseries ! Suddenly , at a single swoop , the night fell . 
I have been abroad in many a black night , but never in a blacker . 
The sky was simply darkness overhead even the flying clouds pursued their way invisibly to human eyesight . 
I could not distinguish my hand at arm's length from the track , nor my goad , at the same distance , from the meadows or the sky . 
Soon the road that I was following split , after the fashion of the country , into three or four in a piece of rocky meadow . 
Since Modestine had shown such a fancy for beaten roads , I tried her instinct in this predicament . 
Add to this , that I and Modestine were both handsomely wetted by the showers . 
But now , if I could have found some water , I should have camped at once in spite of all . 
The thing was easy to decide , hard to accomplish . 
In this sensible roaring blackness I was sure of nothing but the direction of the wind . 
This time they were differently disposed . 
It was not Fouzilhic , but Fouzilhac , a hamlet little distant from the other in space , but worlds away in the spirit of its inhabitants . 
I tied Modestine to a gate , and groped forward , stumbling among rocks , plunging mid leg in bog , until I gained the entrance of the village . 
In the first lighted house there was a woman who would not open to me . 
They came to the next door in force , a man , two women , and a girl , and brought a pair of lanterns to examine the wayfarer . 
The man was not ill looking , but had a shifty smile . 
He leaned against the doorpost , and heard me state my case . 
All I asked was a guide as far as Cheylard . 
'C'EST QUE , VOYEZ VOUS , IL FAIT NOIR , said he . 
I told him that was just my reason for requiring help . 
'I understand that , said he , looking uncomfortable 'MAIS C'EST DE LA PEINE . 
I was willing to pay , I said . 
I rose as high as ten francs but he continued to shake his head . 
I grew a little warm , and asked him what he proposed that I should do . 
'Where are you going beyond Cheylard ? he asked by way of answer . 
'That is no affair of yours , I returned , for I was not going to indulge his bestial curiosity 'it changes nothing in my present predicament . 
'C'EST VRAI , CA , he acknowledged , with a laugh 'OUI , C'EST VRAI . 
ET D'OU VENEZ VOUS ? A better man than I might have felt nettled . 
'Oh , said I , 'I am not going to answer any of your questions , so you may spare yourself the trouble of putting them . 
I am late enough already I want help . 
If you will not guide me yourself , at least help me to find some one else who will . 
'Hold on , he cried suddenly . 
'As for you , mademoiselle , said I , 'you are a FARCEUSE . 
'And , added the man , 'what the devil have you done to be still here ? What the devil , indeed ! But there I was . 
'The great thing , said I , 'is to make an end of it' and once more proposed that he should help me to find a guide . 
'C'EST QUE , he said again , 'C'EST QUE IL FAIT NOIR . 
'Very well , said I 'take one of your lanterns . 
'No , he cried , drawing a thought backward , and again intrenching himself behind one of his former phrases 'I will not cross the door . 
I saw unaffected terror struggling on his face with unaffected shame he was smiling pitifully and wetting his lip with his tongue , like a detected schoolboy . 
I drew a brief picture of my state , and asked him what I was to do . 
'I don't know , he said 'I will not cross the door . 
Here was the Beast of Gevaudan , and no mistake . 
'Sir , said I , with my most commanding manners , 'you are a coward . 
Let me say it in the plural the Beasts of Gevaudan . 
The lanterns had somewhat dazzled me , and I ploughed distressfully among stones and rubbish heaps . 
All the other houses in the village were both dark and silent and though I knocked at here and there a door , my knocking was unanswered . 
It was a bad business I gave up Fouzilhac with my curses . 
The rain had stopped , and the wind , which still kept rising , began to dry my coat and trousers . 
'Very well , thought I , 'water or no water , I must camp . 
But the first thing was to return to Modestine . 
My next business was to gain the shelter of a wood , for the wind was cold as well as boisterous . 
At last black trees began to show upon my left , and , suddenly crossing the road , made a cave of unmitigated blackness right in front . 
I call it a cave without exaggeration to pass below that arch of leaves was like entering a dungeon . 
I felt about until my hand encountered a stout branch , and to this I tied Modestine , a haggard , drenched , desponding donkey . 
Then I lowered my pack , laid it along the wall on the margin of the road , and unbuckled the straps . 
Salvation ! This would serve my turn as well . 
At the second match the wick caught flame . 
The light was both livid and shifting but it cut me off from the universe , and doubled the darkness of the surrounding night . 
I tied Modestine more conveniently for herself , and broke up half the black bread for her supper , reserving the other half against the morning . 
I opened a tin of Bologna sausage and broke a cake of chocolate , and that was all I had to eat . 
It may sound offensive , but I ate them together , bite by bite , by way of bread and meat . 
All I had to wash down this revolting mixture was neat brandy a revolting beverage in itself . 
But I was rare and hungry ate well , and smoked one of the best cigarettes in my experience . 
I questioned at first if I were sleepy , for I felt my heart beating faster than usual , as if with an agreeable excitement to which my mind remained a stranger . 
But as soon as my eyelids touched , that subtle glue leaped between them , and they would no more come separate . 
The wind among the trees was my lullaby . 
, the world was flooded with a blue light , the mother of the dawn . 
I closed my eyes again , and set to thinking over the experience of the night . 
I was surprised to find how easy and pleasant it had been , even in this tempestuous weather . 
Ulysses , left on Ithaca , and with a mind unsettled by the goddess , was not more pleasantly astray . 
All around there were bare hilltops , some near , some far away , as the perspective closed or opened , but none apparently much higher than the rest . 
The wind huddled the trees . 
The golden specks of autumn in the birches tossed shiveringly . 
Overhead the sky was full of strings and shreds of vapour , flying , vanishing , reappearing , and turning about an axis like tumblers , as the wind hounded them through heaven . 
It was wild weather and famishing cold . 
I ate some chocolate , swallowed a mouthful of brandy , and smoked a cigarette before the cold should have time to disable my fingers . 
The wind had us on the stern , and hurried us bitingly forward . 
'My poor boy ! he cried , 'what does this mean ? I told him what had happened . 
'This time , at least , said he , 'there shall be no mistake . 
CHEYLARD AND LUC CANDIDLY , it seemed little worthy of all this searching . 
What went ye out for to see ? thought I to myself . 
But the place had a life of its own . 
I found a board , commemorating the liberalities of Cheylard for the past year , hung up , like a banner , in the diminutive and tottering church . 
In , it appeared , the inhabitants subscribed forty eight francs ten centimes for the 'Work of the Propagation of the Faith . 
Some of this , I could not help hoping , would be applied to my native land . 
Cheylard scrapes together halfpence for the darkened souls in Edinburgh while Balquhidder and Dunrossness bemoan the ignorance of Rome . 
Thus , to the high entertainment of the angels , do we pelt each other with evangelists , like schoolboys bickering in the snow . 
The inn was again singularly unpretentious . 
There were five children , one of whom was set to its morning prayers at the stair foot soon after my arrival , and a sixth would ere long be forthcoming . 
I was kindly received by these good folk . 
They were much interested in my misadventure . 
The good wife was horror stricken to see me drink over a pint of uncreamed milk . 
'You will do yourself an evil , she said . 
'Permit me to boil it for you . 
Here I wrote , drank my chocolate , and finally ate an omelette before I left . 
The table was thick with dust for , as they explained , it was not used except in winter weather . 
The husband had begun life as a muleteer , and when I came to charge Modestine showed himself full of the prudence of his art . 
'You will have to change this package , said he 'it ought to be in two parts , and then you might have double the weight . 
I explained that I wanted no more weight and for no donkey hitherto created would I cut my sleeping bag in two . 
'It fatigues her , however , said the innkeeper 'it fatigues her greatly on the march . 
Alas , there were her two forelegs no better than raw beef on the inside , and blood was running from under her tail . 
They told me when I started , and I was ready to believe it , that before a few days I should come to love Modestine like a dog . 
Three days had passed , we had shared some misadventures , and my heart was still as cold as a potato towards my beast of burden . 
She was pretty enough to look at but then she had given proof of dead stupidity , redeemed indeed by patience , but aggravated by flashes of sorry and ill judged light heartedness . 
And I own this new discovery seemed another point against her . 
AEsop was the man to know the world ! I assure you I set out with heavy thoughts upon my short day's march . 
It was not only heavy thoughts about Modestine that weighted me upon the way it was a leaden business altogether . 
It was like the worst of the Scottish Highlands , only worse cold , naked , and ignoble , scant of wood , scant of heather , scant of life . 
A road and some fences broke the unvarying waste , and the line of the road was marked by upright pillars , to serve in time of snow . 
Why any one should desire to visit either Luc or Cheylard is more than my much inventing spirit can suppose . 
For my part , I travel not to go anywhere , but to go . 
I travel for travel's sake . 
Alas , as we get up in life , and are more preoccupied with our affairs , even a holiday is a thing that must be worked for . 
To hold a pack upon a pack saddle against a gale out of the freezing north is no high industry , but it is one that serves to occupy and compose the mind . 
And when the present is so exacting , who can annoy himself about the future ? I came out at length above the Allier . 
A more unsightly prospect at this season of the year it would be hard to fancy . 
Shelving hills rose round it on all sides , here dabbled with wood and fields , there rising to peaks alternately naked and hairy with pines . 
Through this sorry landscape trickled the Allier and a tributary of nearly equal size , which came down to join it through a broad nude valley in Vivarais . 
Luc itself was a straggling double file of houses wedged between hill and river . 
It had no beauty , nor was there any notable feature , save the old castle overhead with its fifty quintals of brand new Madonna . 
But the inn was clean and large . 
Nor was the scene disgraced by the landlady , a handsome , silent , dark old woman , clothed and hooded in black like a nun . 
OUR LADY OF THE SNOWS 'I behold The House , the Brotherhood austere And what am I , that I am here ? MATTHEW ARNOLD . 
I took the road in a new order . 
The sack was no longer doubled , but hung at full length across the saddle , a green sausage six feet long with a tuft of blue wool hanging out of either end . 
It was more picturesque , it spared the donkey , and , as I began to see , it would ensure stability , blow high , blow low . 
But it was not without a pang that I had so decided . 
My way lay up the bald valley of the river , along the march of Vivarais and Gevaudan . 
Black bricks of fir wood were plastered here and there upon both sides , and here and there were cultivated fields . 
A year or two hence and this may be another world . 
The sun came out as I left the shelter of a pine wood , and I beheld suddenly a fine wild landscape to the south . 
The mists , which had hitherto beset me , were now broken into clouds , and fled swiftly and shone brightly in the sun . 
I drew a long breath . 
It was grateful to come , after so long , upon a scene of some attraction for the human heart . 
But if things had grown better to the south , it was still desolate and inclement near at hand . 
I have rarely approached anything with more unaffected terror than the monastery of Our Lady of the Snows . 
This it is to have had a Protestant education . 
For there , upon the narrow new made road , between the stripling pines , was a mediaeval friar , fighting with a barrowful of turfs . 
He might have been buried any time these thousand years , and all the lively parts of him resolved into earth and broken up with the farmer's harrow . 
I was troubled besides in my mind as to etiquette . 
Durst I address a person who was under a vow of silence ? Clearly not . 
But drawing near , I doffed my cap to him with a far away superstitious reverence . 
He nodded back , and cheerfully addressed me . 
Was I going to the monastery ? Who was I ? An Englishman ? Ah , an Irishman , then ? 'No , I said , 'a Scotsman . 
A Scotsman ? Ah , he had never seen a Scotsman before . 
And he looked me all over , his good , honest , brawny countenance shining with interest , as a boy might look upon a lion or an alligator . 
From him I learned with disgust that I could not be received at Our Lady of the Snows I might get a meal , perhaps , but that was all . 
, and told me I must be sure to ask for the Father Prior , and state my case to him in full . 
On second thoughts he determined to go down with me himself he thought he could manage for me better . 
Might he say that I was a geographer ? No I thought , in the interests of truth , he positively might not . 
'Very well , then' , 'an author . 
And he asked me eagerly after Dr . 
Pusey , for whose conversion the good man had continued ever since to pray night and morning . 
'I thought he was very near the truth , he said 'and he will reach it yet there is so much virtue in prayer . 
He must be a stiff , ungodly Protestant who can take anything but pleasure in this kind and hopeful story . 
At the same time , the bell once more sounded abroad . 
We were hard upon the monastery . 
'I must not speak to you down there , he said . 
'Ask for the Brother Porter , and all will be well . 
But try to see me as you go out again through the wood , where I may speak to you . 
I am charmed to have made your acquaintance . 
I own this somewhat ghastly eccentricity went a good way to revive my terrors . 
It was the first door , in my acquaintance of her , which she had not shown an indecent haste to enter . 
I summoned the place in form , though with a quaking heart . 
Father Michael , the Father Hospitaller , and a pair of brown robed brothers came to the gate and spoke with me a while . 
Modestine was led away by a layman to the stables , and I and my pack were received into Our Lady of the Snows . 
We had some talk , or rather I should say he listened to my prattle indulgently enough , but with an abstracted air , like a spirit with a thing of clay . 
But his manner , though superior , was exquisitely gracious and I find I have a lurking curiosity as to Father Michael's past . 
The whet administered , I was left alone for a little in the monastery garden . 
The buildings stand around it four square , bleak , as yet unseasoned by the years and weather , and with no other features than a belfry and a pair of slated gables . 
Brothers in white , brothers in brown , passed silently along the sanded alleys and when I first came out , three hooded monks were kneeling on the terrace at their prayers . 
A naked hill commands the monastery upon one side , and the wood commands it on the other . 
, led me to a little room in that part of the building which is set apart for MM . 
Over the table , to conclude the inventory of the room , hung a set of regulations for MM . 
LES RETRAITANTS what services they should attend , when they were to tell their beads or meditate , and when they were to rise and go to rest . 
At the foot was a notable N. B. 'LE TEMPS LIBRE EST EMPLOYE A L'EXAMEN DE CONSCIENCE , A LA CONFESSION , A FAIRE DE BONNES RESOLUTIONS , ETC . 
To make good resolutions , indeed ! You might talk as fruitfully of making the hair grow on your head . 
I had scarce explored my niche when Brother Ambrose returned . 
An English boarder , it appeared , would like to speak with me . 
With this , he was a man eminently sociable , greedy of news , and simple minded like a child . 
If I was pleased to have a guide about the monastery , he was no less delighted to see an English face and hear an English tongue . 
He showed me his own room , where he passed his time among breviaries , Hebrew Bibles , and the Waverley Novels . 
For in a Trappist monastery each monk has an occupation of his own choice , apart from his religious duties and the general labours of the house . 
Thus I was told that one brother was engaged with literature while Father Apollinaris busies himself in making roads , and the Abbot employs himself in binding books . 
A proud day for her to have a son a mitred abbot it makes you glad to think they let her in . 
In all these journeyings to and fro , many silent fathers and brethren fell in our way . 
Their meals are scanty , but even of these they eat sparingly and though each is allowed a small carafe of wine , many refrain from this indulgence . 
Without doubt , the most of mankind grossly overeat themselves our meals serve not only for support , but as a hearty and natural diversion from the labour of life . 
Yet , though excess may be hurtful , I should have thought this Trappist regimen defective . 
And I am astonished , as I look back , at the freshness of face and cheerfulness of manner of all whom I beheld . 
A happier nor a healthier company I should scarce suppose that I have ever seen . 
This , at least , was what was told me . 
Those with whom I spoke were singularly sweet tempered , with what I can only call a holy cheerfulness in air and conversation . 
As for those who are restricted to silence , I can only wonder how they bear their solemn and cheerless isolation . 
And yet , apart from any view of mortification , I can see a certain policy , not only in the exclusion of women , but in this vow of silence . 
I have had some experience of lay phalansteries , of an artistic , not to say a bacchanalian character and seen more than one association easily formed and yet more easily dispersed . 
With a Cistercian rule , perhaps they might have lasted longer . 
And next after this , the tongue is the great divider . 
I am almost ashamed to pursue this worldly criticism of a religious rule but there is yet another point in which the Trappist order appeals to me as a model of wisdom . 
I know many persons , worth several thousands in the year , who are not so fortunate in the disposal of their lives . 
From this point of view , we may perhaps better understand the monk's existence . 
A long novitiate and every proof of constancy of mind and strength of body is required before admission to the order but I could not find that many were discouraged . 
In the photographer's studio , which figures so strangely among the outbuildings , my eye was attracted by the portrait of a young fellow in the uniform of a private of foot . 
This was one of the novices , who came of the age for service , and marched and drilled and mounted guard for the proper time among the garrison of Algiers . 
Here was a man who had surely seen both sides of life before deciding yet as soon as he was set free from service he returned to finish his novitiate . 
This austere rule entitles a man to heaven as by right . 
There were none of those circumstances which strike the Protestant as childish or as tawdry in the public offices of Rome . 
A stern simplicity , heightened by the romance of the surroundings , spoke directly to the heart . 
disposed me readily to slumber . 
I was wakened at black midnight , as it seemed , though it was really two in the morning , by the first stroke upon the bell . 
All the brothers were then hurrying to the chapel the dead in life , at this untimely hour , were already beginning the uncomforted labours of their day . 
The dead in life there was a chill reflection . 
THE BOARDERS BUT there was another side to my residence at Our Lady of the Snows . 
At this late season there were not many boarders and yet I was not alone in the public part of the monastery . 
This itself is hard by the gate , with a small dining room on the ground floor and a whole corridor of cells similar to mine upstairs . 
I have stupidly forgotten the board for a regular RETRAITANT but it was somewhere between three and five francs a day , and I think most probably the first . 
Chance visitors like myself might give what they chose as a free will offering , but nothing was demanded . 
I may mention that when I was going away , Father Michael refused twenty francs as excessive . 
I explained the reasoning which led me to offer him so much but even then , from a curious point of honour , he would not accept it with his own hand . 
'I have no right to refuse for the monastery , he explained , 'but I should prefer if you would give it to one of the brothers . 
I had dined alone , because I arrived late but at supper I found two other guests . 
One was a country parish priest , who had walked over that morning from the seat of his cure near Mende to enjoy four days of solitude and prayer . 
This last was a hard person to classify . 
He was an old soldier , who had seen service and risen to the rank of commandant and he retained some of the brisk decisive manners of the camp . 
And certainly here was a man in an interesting nick of life . 
At supper we talked politics . 
The priest and the commandant assured me of their sympathy with all I said , and made a heavy sighing over the bitterness of contemporary feeling . 
'Why , you cannot say anything to a man with which he does not absolutely agree , said I , 'but he flies up at you in a temper . 
They both declared that such a state of things was antichristian . 
While we were thus agreeing , what should my tongue stumble upon but a word in praise of Gambetta's moderation . 
The old soldier's countenance was instantly suffused with blood with the palms of his hands he beat the table like a naughty child . 
'COMMENT , MONSIEUR ? he shouted . 
'COMMENT ? Gambetta moderate ? Will you dare to justify these words ? But the priest had not forgotten the tenor of our talk . 
, that this couple found out I was a heretic . 
I suppose I had misled them by some admiring expressions as to the monastic life around us and it was only by a point blank question that the truth came out . 
But I was now among a different sect of orthodox . 
These two men were bitter and upright and narrow , like the worst of Scotsmen , and indeed , upon my heart , I fancy they were worse . 
The priest snorted aloud like a battle horse . 
'ET VOUS PRETENDEZ MOURIR DANS CETTE ESPECE DE CROYANCE ? he demanded and there is no type used by mortal printers large enough to qualify his accent . 
I humbly indicated that I had no design of changing . 
But he could not away with such a monstrous attitude . 
'No , no , he cried 'you must change . 
You have come here , God has led you here , and you must embrace the opportunity . 
'Your father and mother ? cried the priest . 
'Very well you will convert them in their turn when you go home . 
I think I see my father's face ! I would rather tackle the Gaetulian lion in his den than embark on such an enterprise against the family theologian . 
It was an odd but most effective proselytising . 
Now , they said , when God had led me to Our Lady of the Snows , now was the appointed hour . 
'Do not be withheld by false shame , observed the priest , for my encouragement . 
That , as it seems to lay spirits , would be the only gospel worthy of the name . 
But different men think differently and this revolutionary aspiration brought down the priest with all the terrors of the law . 
He launched into harrowing details of hell . 
And as he thus expatiated , he grew in nobility of aspect with his enthusiasm . 
As a result the pair concluded that I should seek out the Prior , since the Abbot was from home , and lay my case immediately before him . 
'C'EST MON CONSEIL COMME ANCIEN MILITAIRE , observed the commandant 'ET CELUI DE MONSIEUR COMME PRETRE . 
'OUI , added the CURE , sententiously nodding 'COMME ANCIEN MILITAIRE ET COMME PRETRE . 
Look at HIM , he said . 
But to the CURE the argument seemed decisive . 
'Hear that ! he cried . 
'And I have seen a marquis here , a marquis , a marquis' he repeated the holy word three times over 'and other persons high in society and generals . 
And here , at your side , is this gentleman , who has been so many years in armies decorated , an old warrior . 
And here he is , ready to dedicate himself to God . 
I was by this time so thoroughly embarrassed that I pled cold feet , and made my escape from the apartment . 
At dinner the Work of the Propagation of the Faith was recommenced , and on this occasion still more distastefully to me . 
The priest asked me many questions as to the contemptible faith of my fathers , and received my replies with a kind of ecclesiastical titter . 
'Your sect , he said once 'for I think you will admit it would be doing it too much honour to call it a religion . 
'As you please , monsieur , said I. 'LA PAROLE EST A VOUS . 
he said , 'I have no inclination to laugh in my heart . 
I have no other feeling but interest in your soul . 
And there ended my conversion . 
Honest man ! he was no dangerous deceiver but a country parson , full of zeal and faith . 
ACROSS THE GOULET THE wind fell during dinner , and the sky remained clear so it was under better auspices that I loaded Modestine before the monastery gate . 
My Irish friend accompanied me so far on the way . 
Then Modestine and I mounted the course of the Allier , which here led us back into Gevaudan towards its sources in the forest of Mercoire . 
It was but an inconsiderable burn before we left its guidance . 
Thence , over a hill , our way lay through a naked plateau , until we reached Chasserades at sundown . 
The company in the inn kitchen that night were all men employed in survey for one of the projected railways . 
They were intelligent and conversible , and we decided the future of France over hot wine , until the state of the clock frightened us to rest . 
There were four beds in the little upstairs room and we slept six . 
But I had a bed to myself , and persuaded them to leave the window open . 
'HE , BOURGEOIS IL EST CINQ HEURES ! was the cry that wakened me in the morning . 
The room was full of a transparent darkness , which dimly showed me the other three beds and the five different nightcaps on the pillows . 
But out of the window the dawn was growing ruddy in a long belt over the hill tops , and day was about to flood the plateau . 
The hour was inspiriting and there seemed a promise of calm weather , which was perfectly fulfilled . 
I was soon under way with Modestine . 
The road lay for a while over the plateau , and then descended through a precipitous village into the valley of the Chassezac . 
This stream ran among green meadows , well hidden from the world by its steep banks the broom was in flower , and here and there was a hamlet sending up its smoke . 
At last the path crossed the Chassezac upon a bridge , and , forsaking this deep hollow , set itself to cross the mountain of La Goulet . 
It wound up through Lestampes by upland fields and woods of beech and birch , and with every corner brought me into an acquaintance with some new interest . 
It made a pathetic concert , all in treble . 
A little higher , and I passed a pair of men in a tree with pruning hooks , and one of them was singing the music of a BOURREE . 
I pictured to myself some grizzled , apple cheeked , country schoolmaster fluting in his bit of a garden in the clear autumn sunshine . 
Nor was I deceived , for I was now done with rains and winds and a bleak country . 
The first part of my journey ended here and this was like an induction of sweet sounds into the other and more beautiful . 
It was my one serious conflict with Modestine . 
I plied the goad with one hand with the other , so steep was the ascent , I had to hold on the pack saddle . 
But I took the thing as a wager , and fought it through . 
But it was only sweat which came dropping from my brow . 
Over the summit of the Goulet there was no marked road only upright stones posted from space to space to guide the drovers . 
The turf underfoot was springy and well scented . 
I had no company but a lark or two , and met but one bullock cart between Lestampes and Bleymard . 
A NIGHT AMONG THE PINES FROM Bleymard after dinner , although it was already late , I set out to scale a portion of the Lozere . 
'In a more sacred or sequestered bower . 
nor nymph nor faunus haunted . 
By the time I had made my arrangements and fed Modestine , the day was already beginning to decline . 
I buckled myself to the knees into my sack and made a hearty meal and as soon as the sun went down , I pulled my cap over my eyes and fell asleep . 
What seems a kind of temporal death to people choked between walls and curtains , is only a light and living slumber to the man who sleeps afield . 
It is then that the cock first crows , not this time to announce the dawn , but like a cheerful watchman speeding the course of night . 
Towards two in the morning they declare the thing takes place and neither know nor inquire further . 
And at least it is a pleasant incident . 
We are disturbed in our slumber only , like the luxurious Montaigne , 'that we may the better and more sensibly relish it . 
We have a moment to look upon the stars . 
When that hour came to me among the pines , I wakened thirsty . 
My tin was standing by me half full of water . 
I emptied it at a draught and feeling broad awake after this internal cold aspersion , sat upright to make a cigarette . 
The stars were clear , coloured , and jewel like , but not frosty . 
A faint silvery vapour stood for the Milky Way . 
All around me the black fir points stood upright and stock still . 
As if to be more like a pedlar , I wear a silver ring . 
I thought with horror of the inn at Chasserades and the congregated nightcaps with horror of the nocturnal prowesses of clerks and students , of hot theatres and pass keys and close rooms . 
I have not often enjoyed a more serene possession of myself , nor felt more independent of material aids . 
I thought I had rediscovered one of those truths which are revealed to savages and hid from political economists at the least , I had discovered a new pleasure for myself . 
And yet even while I was exulting in my solitude I became aware of a strange lack . 
I wished a companion to lie near me in the starlight , silent and not moving , but ever within touch . 
For there is a fellowship more quiet even than solitude , and which , rightly understood , is solitude made perfect . 
And to live out of doors with the woman a man loves is of all lives the most complete and free . 
As I thus lay , between content and longing , a faint noise stole towards me through the pines . 
I have heard people passing by night in sleeping cities some of them sang one , I remember , played loudly on the bagpipes . 
There is a romance about all who are abroad in the black hours , and with something of a thrill we try to guess their business . 
The blue darkness lay long in the glade where I had so sweetly slumbered but soon there was a broad streak of orange melting into gold along the mountain tops of Vivarais . 
A solemn glee possessed my mind at this gradual and lovely coming in of day . 
Nothing had altered but the light , and that , indeed , shed over all a spirit of life and of breathing peace , and moved me to a strange exhilaration . 
I drank my water chocolate , which was hot if it was not rich , and strolled here and there , and up and down about the glade . 
While I was thus delaying , a gush of steady wind , as long as a heavy sigh , poured direct out of the quarter of the morning . 
It was cold , and set me sneezing . 
Ten minutes after , the sunlight spread at a gallop along the hillside , scattering shadows and sparkles , and the day had come completely . 
I hastened to prepare my pack , and tackle the steep ascent that lay before me but I had something on my mind . 
It was only a fancy yet a fancy will sometimes be importunate . 
I had been most hospitably received and punctually served in my green caravanserai . 
The room was airy , the water excellent , and the dawn had called me to a moment . 
I trust they did not fall to some rich and churlish drover . 
THE COUNTRY OF THE CAMISARDS We travelled in the print of olden wars Yet all the land was green And love we found , and peace , Where fire and war had been . 
They pass and smile , the children of the sword No more the sword they wield And O , how deep the corn Along the battlefield ! W. P. BANNATYNE . 
I tied my jacket on the pack , and walked in my knitted waistcoat . 
Almost from the first moment of my march , a faint large noise , like a distant surf , had filled my ears . 
Sometimes I was tempted to think it the voice of a neighbouring waterfall , and sometimes a subjective result of the utter stillness of the hill . 
It was blowing stiffly from the south upon the other slope of the Lozere , and every step that I took I was drawing nearer to the wind . 
Although it had been long desired , it was quite unexpectedly at last that my eyes rose above the summit . 
I have spoken with people who either pretended or believed that they had seen , from the Pie de Finiels , white ships sailing by Montpellier and Cette . 
But in front of me , half veiled in sunny haze , lay a new Gevaudan , rich , picturesque , illustrious for stirring events . 
These are the Cevennes with an emphasis the Cevennes of the Cevennes . 
There was Cavalier , a baker's apprentice with a genius for war , elected brigadier of Camisards at seventeen , to die at fifty five the English governor of Jersey . 
There again was Castanet , a partisan leader in a voluminous peruke and with a taste for controversial divinity . 
I had travelled hitherto through a dull district , and in the track of nothing more notable than the child eating beast of Gevaudan , the Napoleon Bonaparte of wolves . 
But now I was to go down into the scene of a romantic chapter or , better , a romantic footnote in the history of the world . 
But I had yet to learn if it were a bare survival , or a lively and generous tradition . 
It led into a valley between falling hills , stubbly with rocks like a reaped field of corn , and floored farther down with green meadows . 
Yet a little lower and a stream began , collecting itself together out of many fountains , and soon making a glad noise among the hills . 
Sometimes it would cross the track in a bit of waterfall , with a pool , in which Modestine refreshed her feet . 
The whole descent is like a dream to me , so rapidly was it accomplished . 
I had scarcely left the summit ere the valley had closed round my path , and the sun beat upon me , walking in a stagnant lowland atmosphere . 
The track became a road , and went up and down in easy undulations . 
I passed cabin after cabin , but all seemed deserted and I saw not a human creature , nor heard any sound except that of the stream . 
I was , however , in a different country from the day before . 
The stony skeleton of the world was here vigorously displayed to sun and air . 
The slopes were steep and changeful . 
Oak trees clung along the hills , well grown , wealthy in leaf , and touched by the autumn with strong and luminous colours . 
Here and there another stream would fall in from the right or the left , down a gorge of snow white and tumultuary boulders . 
here foamed a while in desperate rapids , and there lay in pools of the most enchanting sea green shot with watery browns . 
A little after , the stream that I was following fell into the Tarn at Pont de Montvert of bloody memory . 
PONT DE MONTVERT ONE of the first things I encountered in Pont de Montvert was , if I remember rightly , the Protestant temple but this was but the type of other novelties . 
A subtle atmosphere distinguishes a town in England from a town in France , or even in Scotland . 
At Carlisle you can see you are in the one country at Dumfries , thirty miles away , you are as sure that you are in the other . 
I should find it difficult to tell in what particulars Pont de Montvert differed from Monastier or Langogne , or even Bleymard but the difference existed , and spoke eloquently to the eyes . 
The place , with its houses , its lanes , its glaring river bed , wore an indescribable air of the South . 
All was Sunday bustle in the streets and in the public house , as all had been Sabbath peace among the mountains . 
In crossing the Lozere I had not only come among new natural features , but moved into the territory of a different race . 
They had open telling faces , and were lively both in speech and manner . 
Even physically there was a pleasant change . 
I had not seen a pretty woman since I left Monastier , and there but one . 
It was a face capable of strong emotion , and , with training , it offered the promise of delicate sentiment . 
It seemed pitiful to see so good a model left to country admirers and a country way of thought . 
Before I left I assured Clarisse of my hearty admiration . 
She took it like milk , without embarrassment or wonder , merely looking at me steadily with her great eyes and I own the result upon myself was some confusion . 
If Clarisse could read English , I should not dare to add that her figure was unworthy of her face . 
Hers was a case for stays but that may perhaps grow better as she gets up in years . 
Pont de Montvert , or Greenhill Bridge , as we might say at home , is a place memorable in the story of the Camisards . 
It was here that the war broke out here that those southern Covenanters slew their Archbishop Sharp . 
The Protestants were one and all beside their right minds with zeal and sorrow . 
They were all prophets and prophetesses . 
Children at the breast would exhort their parents to good works . 
'A child of fifteen months at Quissac spoke from its mother's arms , agitated and sobbing , distinctly and with a loud voice . 
Marshal Villars has seen a town where all the women 'seemed possessed by the devil , and had trembling fits , and uttered prophecies publicly upon the streets . 
A prophetess of Vivarais was hanged at Moutpellier because blood flowed from her eyes and nose , and she declared that she was weeping tears of blood for the misfortunes of the Protestants . 
And it was not only women and children . 
Stalwart dangerous fellows , used to swing the sickle or to wield the forest axe , were likewise shaken with strange paroxysms , and spoke oracles with sobs and streaming tears . 
, Archpriest of the Cevennes and Inspector of Missions in the same country , had a house in which he sometimes dwelt in the town of Pont de Montvert . 
A missionary in his youth in China , he there suffered martyrdom , was left for dead , and only succoured and brought back to life by the charity of a pariah . 
We must suppose the pariah devoid of second sight , and not purposely malicious in this act . 
The Work of the Propagation of the Faith went roundly forward in his hands . 
His house in Pont de Montvert served him as a prison . 
There he closed the hands of his prisoners upon live coal , and plucked out the hairs of their beards , to convince them that they were deceived in their opinions . 
But the psalm singers were already at his door , fifty strong , led by the inspired Seguier , and breathing death . 
To their summons , the archpriest made answer like a stout old persecutor , and bade his garrison fire upon the mob . 
But he , on his side , had given absolution to his men , and they bravely held the staircase . 
'Children of God , cried the prophet , 'hold your hands . 
Let us burn the house , with the priest and the satellites of Baal . 
One by one , Seguier first , the Camisards drew near and stabbed him . 
'This , they said , 'is for my father broken on the wheel . 
This for my brother in the galleys . 
That for my mother or my sister imprisoned in your cursed convents . 
Each gave his blow and his reason and then all kneeled and sang psalms around the body till the dawn . 
'Tis a wild night's work , with its accompaniment of psalms and it seems as if a psalm must always have a sound of threatening in that town upon the Tarn . 
But the story does not end , even so far as concerns Pont de Montvert , with the departure of the Camisards . 
The career of Seguier was brief and bloody . 
Taken at length by a famous soldier of fortune , Captain Poul , he appeared unmoved before his judges . 
'Your name ? they asked . 
'Why are you called Spirit ? 'Because the Spirit of the Lord is with me . 
'Your domicile ? 'Lately in the desert , and soon in heaven . 
'Have you no remorse for your crimes ? 'I have committed none . 
MY SOUL IS LIKE A GARDEN FULL OF SHELTER AND OF FOUNTAINS . 
At Pont de Montvert , on the th of August , he had his right hand stricken from his body , and was burned alive . 
And his soul was like a garden ? So perhaps was the soul of Du Chayla , the Christian martyr . 
And perhaps if you could read in my soul , or I could read in yours , our own composure might seem little less surprising . 
A humble sketcher here laid down his pencil in despair . 
But their individuality , although compounded of so many elements , is but the richer and the more original . 
This was not easy to find the terraces were too narrow , and the ground , where it was unterraced , was usually too steep for a man to lie upon . 
I should have slipped all night , and awakened towards morning with my feet or my head in the river . 
Thither , with infinite trouble , I goaded and kicked the reluctant Modestine , and there I hastened to unload her . 
There was only room for myself upon the plateau , and I had to go nearly as high again before I found so much as standing room for the ass . 
It was on a heap of rolling stones , on an artificial terrace , certainly not five feet square in all . 
The position was unpleasantly exposed . 
Moreover , I saw that I must be early awake for these chestnut gardens had been the scene of industry no further gone than on the day before . 
Such was a field festival in at that date Antony Watteau would be painting similar subjects . 
This was a very different camp from that of the night before in the cool and silent pine woods . 
It was warm and even stifling in the valley . 
The shrill song of frogs , like the tremolo note of a whistle with a pea in it , rang up from the river side before the sun was down . 
A profusion of large ants swarmed upon the ground bats whisked by , and mosquitoes droned overhead . 
He turned his head neither to the right nor to the left , and disappeared in a few strides among the foliage . 
Here was an escape ! But it was plainly more than time to be moving . 
The peasantry were abroad scarce less terrible to me in my nondescript position than the soldiers of Captain Poul to an undaunted Camisard . 
I fed Modestine with what haste I could but as I was returning to my sack , I saw a man and a boy come down the hillside in a direction crossing mine . 
They unintelligibly hailed me , and I replied with inarticulate but cheerful sounds , and hurried forward to get into my gaiters . 
The pair , who seemed to be father and son , came slowly up to the plateau , and stood close beside me for some time in silence . 
The bed was open , and I saw with regret my revolver lying patently disclosed on the blue wool . 
'My faith , I answered lightly , 'I was tired . 
He next inquired where I was going and what I had had for dinner and then , without the least transition , 'C'EST BIEN , he added , 'come along . 
And he and his son , without another word , turned off to the next chestnut tree but one , which they set to pruning . 
The thing had passed of more simply than I hoped . 
He was a grave , respectable man and his unfriendly voice did not imply that he thought he was speaking to a criminal , but merely to an inferior . 
I was soon on the road , nibbling a cake of chocolate and seriously occupied with a case of conscience . 
I might have missed a train , had there been any in the neighbourhood to catch . 
Clearly , I was dissatisfied with my entertainment and I decided I should not pay unless I met a beggar . 
The valley looked even lovelier by morning and soon the road descended to the level of the river . 
Here , in a place where many straight and prosperous chestnuts stood together , making an aisle upon a swarded terrace , I made my morning toilette in the water of the Tarn . 
It was marvellously clear , thrillingly cool the soap suds disappeared as if by magic in the swift current , and the white boulders gave one a model for cleanliness . 
To wash in one of God's rivers in the open air seems to me a sort of cheerful solemnity or semi pagan act of worship . 
To dabble among dishes in a bedroom may perhaps make clean the body but the imagination takes no share in such a cleansing . 
I went on with a light and peaceful heart , and sang psalms to the spiritual ear as I advanced . 
Suddenly up came an old woman , who point blank demanded alms . 
'Good , thought I 'here comes the waiter with the bill . 
And I paid for my night's lodging on the spot . 
Take it how you please , but this was the first and the last beggar that I met with during all my tour . 
A step or two farther I was overtaken by an old man in a brown nightcap , clear eyed , weather beaten , with a faint excited smile . 
It was not much past six and for healthy people who have slept enough , that is an hour of expansion and of open and trustful talk . 
'CONNAISSEZ VOUS LE SEIGNEUR ? he said at length . 
I asked him what Seigneur he meant but he only repeated the question with more emphasis and a look in his eyes denoting hope and interest . 
'Ah , said I , pointing upwards , 'I understand you now . 
Yes , I know Him He is the best of acquaintances . 
The old man said he was delighted . 
'Hold , he added , striking his bosom 'it makes me happy here . 
There were a few who knew the Lord in these valleys , he went on to tell me not many , but a few . 
he quoted , 'and few chosen . 
'My father , said I , 'it is not easy to say who know the Lord and it is none of our business . 
Protestants and Catholics , and even those who worship stones , may know Him and be known by Him for He has made all . 
I did not know I was so good a preacher . 
The old man assured me he thought as I did , and repeated his expressions of pleasure at meeting me . 
'We are so few , he said . 
'They call us Moravians here but down in the Department of Gard , where there are also a good number , they are called Derbists , after an English pastor . 
He was , as a matter of fact , a Plymouth Brother . 
For charity begins blindfold and only through a series of similar misapprehensions rises at length into a settled principle of love and patience , and a firm belief in all our fellow men . 
If I deceived this good old man , in the like manner I would willingly go on to deceive others . 
Thus , talking like Christian and Faithful by the way , he and I came down upon a hamlet by the Tarn . 
It was but a humble place , called La Vernede , with less than a dozen houses , and a Protestant chapel on a knoll . 
Here he dwelt and here , at the inn , I ordered my breakfast . 
The inn was kept by an agreeable young man , a stone breaker on the road , and his sister , a pretty and engaging girl . 
The village schoolmaster dropped in to speak with the stranger . 
And these were all Protestants a fact which pleased me more than I should have expected and , what pleased me still more , they seemed all upright and simple people . 
The Plymouth Brother hung round me with a sort of yearning interest , and returned at least thrice to make sure I was enjoying my meal . 
His behaviour touched me deeply at the time , and even now moves me in recollection . 
He feared to intrude , but he would not willingly forego one moment of my society and he seemed never weary of shaking me by the hand . 
The valley below La Vernede pleased me more and more as I went forward . 
Now the hills approached from either hand , naked and crumbling , and walled in the river between cliffs and now the valley widened and became green . 
There was something in this landscape , smiling although wild , that explained to me the spirit of the Southern Covenanters . 
They dealt much more in blood , both given and taken yet I find no obsession of the Evil One in their records . 
With a light conscience , they pursued their life in these rough times and circumstances . 
The soul of Seguier , let us not forget , was like a garden . 
'We flew , says one old Camisard , 'when we heard the sound of psalm singing , we flew as if with wings . 
We felt within us an animating ardour , a transporting desire . 
The feeling cannot be expressed in words . 
It is a thing that must have been experienced to be understood . 
However weary we might be , we thought no more of our weariness , and grew light so soon as the psalms fell upon our ears . 
It is notable , besides , for handsome women , and as one of the two capitals , Alais being the other , of the country of the Camisards . 
The landlord of the inn took me , after I had eaten , to an adjoining cafe , where I , or rather my journey , became the topic of the afternoon . 
Every one had some suggestion for my guidance and the sub prefectorial map was fetched from the sub prefecture itself , and much thumbed among coffee cups and glasses of liqueur . 
But in towns and among the so called better classes , I fear that these old doings have become an idle tale . 
If you met a mixed company in the King's Arms at Wigton , it is not likely that the talk would run on Covenanters . 
Nay , at Muirkirk of Glenluce , I found the beadle's wife had not so much as heard of Prophet Peden . 
Florac , he told me , is part Protestant , part Catholic and the difference in religion is usually doubled by a difference in politics . 
I have never thought it easy to be just , and find it daily even harder than I thought . 
I own I met these Protestants with a delight and a sense of coming home . 
I was accustomed to speak their language , in another and deeper sense of the word than that which distinguishes between French and English for the true Babel is a divergence upon morals . 
And hence I could hold more free communication with the Protestants , and judge them more justly , than the Catholics . 
In this world of imperfection we gladly welcome even partial intimacies . 
IN THE VALLEY OF THE MIMENTE ON Tuesday , st October , we left Florac late in the afternoon , a tired donkey and tired donkey driver . 
A little way up the Tarnon , a covered bridge of wood introduced us into the valley of the Mimente . 
It was difficult here again to find a spot fit for my encampment . 
Thither I descended , and , tying Modestine provisionally to a tree , proceeded to investigate the neighbourhood . 
A grey pearly evening shadow filled the glen objects at a little distance grew indistinct and melted bafflingly into each other and the darkness was rising steadily like an exhalation . 
I had half a mind to pack and be gone again , but the growing darkness moved me to remain . 
I had only to make no noise until the night was fairly come , and trust to the dawn to call me early in the morning . 
But it was hard to be annoyed by neighbours in such a great hotel . 
A hollow underneath the oak was my bed . 
Before I had fed Modestine and arranged my sack , three stars were already brightly shining , and the others were beginning dimly to appear . 
The oak rose before me like a pillar of darkness and overhead the heartsome stars were set in the face of the night . 
No one knows the stars who has not slept , as the French happily put it , A LA BELLE ETOILE . 
He may know all their names and distances and magnitudes , and yet be ignorant of what alone concerns mankind , their serene and gladsome influence on the mind . 
The greater part of poetry is about the stars and very justly , for they are themselves the most classical of poets . 
All night a strong wind blew up the valley , and the acorns fell pattering over me from the oak . 
Yet , on this first night of October , the air was as mild as May , and I slept with the fur thrown back . 
I was much disturbed by the barking of a dog , an animal that I fear more than any wolf . 
A dog is vastly braver , and is besides supported by the sense of duty . 
There is something of the clergyman or the lawyer about this engaging animal and if he were not amenable to stones , the boldest man would shrink from travelling afoot . 
I respect dogs much in the domestic circle but on the highway , or sleeping afield , I both detest and fear them . 
by the same dog for I knew his bark making a charge down the bank , and then , seeing me sit up , retreating again with great alacrity . 
The stars were not yet quite extinguished . 
The heaven was of that enchanting mild grey blue of the early morn . 
A still clear light began to fall , and the trees on the hillside were outlined sharply against the sky . 
In these high regions of the air , the sun was already shining as at noon . 
If only the clouds travelled high enough , we should see the same thing all night long . 
For it is always daylight in the fields of space . 
I met but one human being that forenoon , a dark military looking wayfarer , who carried a game bag on a baldric but he made a remark that seems worthy of record . 
For when I asked him if he were Protestant or Catholic 'Oh , said he , 'I make no shame of my religion . 
He made no shame of it ! The phrase is a piece of natural statistics for it is the language of one in a minority . 
Ireland is still Catholic the Cevennes still Protestant . 
It is not a basketful of law papers , nor the hoofs and pistol butts of a regiment of horse , that can change one tittle of a ploughman's thoughts . 
Outdoor rustic people have not many ideas , but such as they have are hardy plants , and thrive flourishingly in persecution . 
Like my mountain Plymouth Brother , he knows the Lord . 
His religion does not repose upon a choice of logic it is the poetry of the man's experience , the philosophy of the history of his life . 
He is a Catholic , a Protestant , or a Plymouth Brother , in the same indefeasible sense that a man is not a woman , or a woman not a man . 
For he could not vary from his faith , unless he could eradicate all memory of the past , and , in a strict and not a conventional meaning , change his mind . 
The road along the Mimente is yet new , nor have the mountaineers recovered their surprise when the first cart arrived at Cassagnas . 
But although it lay thus apart from the current of men's business , this hamlet had already made a figure in the history of France . 
Of the five legions into which the Camisards were divided , it was the oldest and the most obscure that had its magazines by Cassagnas . 
This was the band of Spirit Seguier men who had joined their voices with his in the th Psalm as they marched down by night on the archpriest of the Cevennes . 
Seguier , promoted to heaven , was succeeded by Salomon Couderc , whom Cavalier treats in his memoirs as chaplain general to the whole army of the Camisards . 
And this was surely happy since in a surprise in August , he lost his mule , his portfolios , and his Bible . 
This is a token , not only of their faith , but of the trackless country where they harboured . 
A traitor had need of no recommendation to insinuate himself among their ranks , beyond 'his faculty of singing psalms' and even the prophet Salomon 'took him into a particular friendship . 
Thus , among their intricate hills , the rustic troop subsisted and history can attribute few exploits to them but sacraments and ecstasies . 
There is , indeed , one family that is not Protestant , but neither is it Catholic . 
It is that of a Catholic CURE in revolt , who has taken to his bosom a schoolmistress . 
And his conduct , it is worth noting , is disapproved by the Protestant villagers . 
'It is a bad idea for a man , said one , 'to go back from his engagements . 
The villagers whom I saw seemed intelligent after a countrified fashion , and were all plain and dignified in manner . 
As a Protestant myself , I was well looked upon , and my acquaintance with history gained me further respect . 
For we had something not unlike a religious controversy at table , a gendarme and a merchant with whom I dined being both strangers to the place , and Catholics . 
The young men of the house stood round and supported me and the whole discussion was tolerantly conducted , and surprised a man brought up among the infinitesimal and contentious differences of Scotland . 
The merchant , indeed , grew a little warm , and was far less pleased than some others with my historical acquirements . 
But the gendarme was mighty easy over it all . 
'It's a bad idea for a man to change , said he and the remark was generally applauded . 
That was not the opinion of the priest and soldier at Our Lady of the Snows . 
But this is a different race and perhaps the same great heartedness that upheld them to resist , now enables them to differ in a kind spirit . 
For courage respects courage but where a faith has been trodden out , we may look for a mean and narrow population . 
The merchant was much interested in my journey , and thought it dangerous to sleep afield . 
'There are the wolves , said he 'and then it is known you are an Englishman . 
The English have always long purses , and it might very well enter into some one's head to deal you an ill blow some night . 
I told him I was not much afraid of such accidents and at any rate judged it unwise to dwell upon alarms or consider small perils in the arrangement of life . 
Life itself , I submitted , was a far too risky business as a whole to make each additional particular of danger worth regard . 
'CEPENDANT , said he , 'COUCHER DEHORS ! 'God , said I , 'is everywhere . 
'CEPENDANT , COUCHER DEHORS ! he repeated , and his voice was eloquent of terror . 
He was the only person , in all my voyage , who saw anything hardy in so simple a proceeding although many considered it superfluous . 
A little after two I struck across the Mimente , and took a rugged path southward up a hillside covered with loose stones and tufts of heather . 
At the top , as is the habit of the country , the path disappeared and I left my she ass munching heather , and went forward alone to seek a road . 
I was now on the separation of two vast water sheds behind me all the streams were bound for the Garonne and the Western Ocean before me was the basin of the Rhone . 
And still it was perhaps the wildest view of all my journey . 
The sun , which was still far from setting , sent a drift of misty gold across the hill tops , but the valleys were already plunged in a profound and quiet shadow . 
There was something solemn in the isolation of this infirm and ancient creature . 
Where he dwelt , how he got upon this high ridge , or how he proposed to get down again , were more than I could fancy . 
Not far off upon my right was the famous Plan de Font Morte , where Poul with his Armenian sabre slashed down the Camisards of Seguier . 
This , methought , might be some Rip van Winkle of the war , who had lost his comrades , fleeing before Poul , and wandered ever since upon the mountains . 
It might be news to him that Cavalier had surrendered , or Roland had fallen fighting with his back against an olive . 
And while I was thus working on my fancy , I heard him hailing in broken tones , and saw him waving me to come back with one of his two sticks . 
I had already got some way past him but , leaving Modestine once more , retraced my steps . 
Alas , it was a very commonplace affair . 
The old gentleman had forgot to ask the pedlar what he sold , and wished to remedy this neglect . 
I told him sternly , 'Nothing . 
I repeated 'Nothing , and made off . 
It's odd to think of , but perhaps I thus became as inexplicable to the old man as he had been to me . 
But I heard the voice of a woman singing some sad , old , endless ballad not far off . 
What could I have told her ? Little enough and yet all the heart requires . 
Easy to say yea , but also , by God's mercy , both easy and grateful to believe ! We struck at last into a wide white high road carpeted with noiseless dust . 
The night had come the moon had been shining for a long while upon the opposite mountain when on turning a corner my donkey and I issued ourselves into her light . 
It was but a couple of mouthfuls yet I became thenceforth unconscious of my limbs , and my blood flowed with luxury . 
Even Modestine was inspired by this purified nocturnal sunshine , and bestirred her little hoofs as to a livelier measure . 
The road wound and descended swiftly among masses of chestnuts . 
Hot dust rose from our feet and flowed away . 
And next moment the breeze had gone by , and in all the valley nothing moved except our travelling feet . 
The place was asleep and silent , and buried in opaque night . 
Only from a single open door , some lamplight escaped upon the road to show me that I was come among men's habitations . 
The two last gossips of the evening , still talking by a garden wall , directed me to the inn . 
It was still early , and the cockcrows , and the slanting lights , and the long shadows encouraged me to be out and look round me . 
Germain de Calberte is a great parish nine leagues round about . 
But the place itself , although capital of a canton , is scarce larger than a hamlet . 
It lies terraced across a steep slope in the midst of mighty chestnuts . 
The Protestant chapel stands below upon a shoulder in the midst of the town is the quaint old Catholic church . 
Clad in his priestly robes , he was laid out in state in the church . 
Strange was the position of this little Catholic metropolis , a thimbleful of Rome , in such a wild and contrary neighbourhood . 
On the one hand , the legion of Salomon overlooked it from Cassagnas on the other , it was cut off from assistance by the legion of Roland at Mialet . 
Salomon besieged the village for an hour and a half , but was beaten back . 
The militiamen , on guard before the CURE'S door , could be heard , in the black hours , singing Protestant psalms and holding friendly talk with the insurgents . 
And in the morning , although not a shot had been fired , there would not be a round of powder in their flasks . 
Where was it gone ? All handed over to the Camisards for a consideration . 
Untrusty guardians for an isolated priest ! That these continual stirs were once busy in St . 
Germain de Calberte , the imagination with difficulty receives all is now so quiet , the pulse of human life now beats so low and still in this hamlet of the mountains . 
My passage was the first event , you would have fancied , since the Camisards . 
Ever and again a little wind went by , and the nuts dropped all around me , with a light and dull sound , upon the sward . 
The noise was as of a thin fall of great hailstones but there went with it a cheerful human sentiment of an approaching harvest and farmers rejoicing in their gains . 
I have not often enjoyed a place more deeply . 
I moved in an atmosphere of pleasure , and felt light and quiet and content . 
But perhaps it was not the place alone that so disposed my spirit . 
Perhaps some one was thinking of me in another country or perhaps some thought of my own had come and gone unnoticed , and yet done me good . 
I dined with a pair of Catholics . 
They agreed in the condemnation of a young man , a Catholic , who had married a Protestant girl and gone over to the religion of his wife . 
'It is a bad idea for a man to change , said one . 
It may have been accidental , but you see how this phrase pursued me and for myself , I believe it is the current philosophy in these parts . 
I have some difficulty in imagining a better . 
Honour to those who do so , for the wrench is sore . 
It is , as the reader will anticipate , a feeble beverage , but very pleasant to the taste . 
What with dinner and coffee , it was long past three before I left St . 
I went down beside the Gardon of Mialet , a great glaring watercourse devoid of water , and through St . 
Etienne de Vallee Francaise , or Val Francesque , as they used to call it and towards evening began to ascend the hill of St . 
It was a long and steep ascent . 
Behind me an empty carriage returning to St . 
Jean du Gard kept hard upon my tracks , and near the summit overtook me . 
The driver , like the rest of the world , was sure I was a pedlar but , unlike others , he was sure of what I had to sell . 
I had hurried to the topmost powers of Modestine , for I dearly desired to see the view upon the other side before the day had faded . 
But it was night when I reached the summit the moon was riding high and clear and only a few grey streaks of twilight lingered in the west . 
A yawning valley , gulfed in blackness , lay like a hole in created nature at my feet but the outline of the hills was sharp against the sky . 
There was Mount Aigoal , the stronghold of Castanet . 
In the high tide of war he married , in his mountain citadel , a young and pretty lass called Mariette . 
There were great rejoicings and the bridegroom released five and twenty prisoners in honour of the glad event . 
But Castanet was a man of execution , and loved his wife . 
He fell on Valleraugue , and got a lady there for a hostage and for the first and last time in that war there was an exchange of prisoners . 
Their daughter , pledge of some starry night upon Mount Aigoal , has left descendants to this day . 
Modestine and I it was our last meal together had a snack upon the top of St . 
Pierre , I on a heap of stones , she standing by me in the moonlight and decorously eating bread out of my hand . 
The poor brute would eat more heartily in this manner for she had a sort of affection for me , which I was soon to betray . 
It was a long descent upon St . 
Jean du Gard , and we met no one but a carter , visible afar off by the glint of the moon on his extinguished lantern . 
Our yesterday's march , with the testimony of the driver who had pursued us up the long hill of St . 
Pierre , spread a favourable notion of my donkey's capabilities . 
Intending purchasers were aware of an unrivalled opportunity . 
Before ten I had an offer of twenty five francs and before noon , after a desperate engagement , I sold her , saddle and all , for five and thirty . 
The pecuniary gain is not obvious , but I had bought freedom into the bargain . 
St Jean du Gard is a large place , and largely Protestant . 
The maire , a Protestant , asked me to help him in a small matter which is itself characteristic of the country . 
I gave what help I could and volunteered some advice , which struck me as being excellent . 
One thing more I note . 
The phylloxera has ravaged the vineyards in this neighbourhood and in the early morning , under some chestnuts by the river , I found a party of men working with a cider press . 
I could not at first make out what they were after , and asked one fellow to explain . 
'Making cider , he said . 
'OUI , C'EST COMME CA . 
COMME DANS LE NORD ! There was a ring of sarcasm in his voice the country was going to the devil . 
It was not until I was fairly seated by the driver , and rattling through a rocky valley with dwarf olives , that I became aware of my bereavement . 
She loved to eat out of my hand . 
She was patient , elegant in form , the colour of an ideal mouse , and inimitably small . 
Her faults were those of her race and sex her virtues were her own . 
