Child Christopher and Goldilind the Fair by William Morris CHAPTER I. OF THE KING OF OAKENREALM , AND HIS WIFE AND HIS CHILD . 
The lord and king thereof was a stark man , and so great a warrior that in his youth he took no delight in aught else save battle and tourneys . 
So he brought her home with him to Oakenrealm and wedded her . 
Thereafter the priest houselled the King , and he received his Creator , and a little while after his soul departed . 
Then all they said that he was worthy and mighty and the choice of their dear lord , and that they would have none but he . 
Now then by law was the Marshal , who hight Rolf , lord and earl of the land of Oakenrealm . 
But whereas that left them somewhat to grind their teeth on , and they were not harried , they were not so ill content . 
So the Marshal throve , and lacked nothing of a king's place save the bare name . 
The said house was some twelve miles from Oakenham , not far from the northern edge of the wild wood . 
But in a while , scarce more than a year , Lord Richard brake up house at the said castle , and went southward through the forest . 
Of this departure was little said , for he was not a man amongst the foremost . 
So wore the years , and in Oakenham King Christopher was well nigh forgotten , and in the wild wood had never been known clearly for King's son . 
At first , by command of Rolf the Marshal , a messenger came every year from Lord Richard with a letter that told of how the lad Christopher did . 
So wore the days and the years . 
OF THE KING OF MEADHAM AND HIS DAUGHTER . 
But how say ye , my masters ? So they all with one consent said Yea , and they would ask for no better king than their lady his daughter . 
Then said the King Hearken carefully , for my time is short Yet is she young and a maiden , though she be wise . 
Which of you , my masters , is meet for this matter ? Then they all looked one on the other , and spake not . 
And the King said Speak , some one of you , without fear this is no time for tarrying . 
, and she said Cousin and Earl , we will that all this be done and it likes me well to eke the wealth of this lady and my good friend Dame Elinor . 
Quoth Earl Geoffrey Kneel before thy lady , Dame , and put thine hands between hers and thank her for the gift . 
CHAPTER V. GOLDILIND COMES TO GREENHARBOUR . 
But a little while tarried the Earl Geoffrey at Leashowe , but departed next morning and came to Meadhamstead . 
Howbeit , whatso might lie before her , she put a good face upon it , and did to those about her queenly and with all courtesy . 
Howbeit , they entered the said castle , and within , as without , it was somewhat grim , though nought was lacking of plenishing due for folk knightly . 
In the said outer garth wall also was a postern , whereby there was not seldom coming in and going out . 
, and as the prisoner brought back was she chastised when she came within gates again . 
So wore the days and the seasons , till it was now more than four years since she had left Leashowe , and her eighteenth summer was beginning . 
But now the tale leaves telling of Goldilind , and goes back to the matters of Oakenrealm , and therein to what has to do with King Christopher and Rolf the Marshal . 
HOW ROLF THE MARSHAL DREAMS A DREAM AND COMES TO THE CASTLE OF THE UTTERMOST MARCH . 
Now this same summer , when King Christopher was of twenty years and two , Rolf the Marshal , sleeping one noontide in the King's garden at Oakenham , dreamed a dream . 
Wake , fool wake ! and look to it what thou wilt do ! And therewith he woke up crying out , and drew forth his sword . 
But it is no jest wherein they say that they will gainsay him nought , and that especially the young women . 
Yet I will say of him that he is wise , and asketh not overmuch the more is the sorrow of many of the maidens . 
A fell woodsman he is , and exceeding stark , and as yet heedeth more of valiance than of the love of woman . 
The Marshal looked no less troubled than before at these words he said I would see this young man speedily . 
So shall it be , Lord , said Lord Richard . 
It were not unmeet that some shame were done him . 
But hearken ! thou shalt not call me king for to day there is no king in Oakenrealm , and I am but Marshal , and Earl of the king that shall be . 
, and a device of a crowned rose , for this ring was a signet of his . 
SO wore the day to evening but , ere he went to bed , the Lord Rolf had a privy talk , first with Lord Richard , and after with his squire Simon . 
What followed of that talk ye may hear after . 
HOW CHRISTOPHER WENT A JOURNEY INTO THE WILD WOOD . 
Then he said to him Well , King Christopher , art thou ready for the road ? Yea , as thou seest , said the youngling smiling . 
Yea , quoth Simon , thou deemest thee a gay swain belike but thou lookest likelier for a deerstealer than a rider , thou , hung up to thy shooting gear . 
Moreover , this crooked stick can drive a shaft through matters harder than a hind's side . 
Simon looked confused , and he reddened and stammered somewhat as he answered Ah , yea so it was I mind me I will tell thee anon . 
Yet have I tidings for thee . 
Yea , and what be they ? said Christopher . 
Simon grinned Even these , said he , that Dr . 
Knowall was no man's cousin while he lived , and that he died last week . 
Therewith he swung himself into his saddle , and Christopher laughed merrily at his poor gibe and mounted in like wise . 
Christopher laughed Aha ! said he , then am I some faraway cousin of Dr . 
Simon looked sourly on him and said Thou are bidden to go with me , young man , or gainsay the Marshal . 
Art thou mighty enough thereto ? For the rest , fear not but that the deed shall come to thee one day . 
Nay , said Christopher , it is all one to me , for I am at home in these woods and wastes , I and my shafts . 
Tell me of the deeds when thou wilt . 
But indeed he longed to know the deed , and fretted him because of Simon's surliness and closeness . 
Yea , and why not ? said the squire I have lain in worse places . 
Wilt thou tell me thereof ? said Christopher . 
Mayhappen , said Simon , if to morrow comes and goes for both of us twain . 
So they tethered their horses there and ate their supper and lay down to sleep in the house of the woods , by a fire side which they lighted . 
Go to sleep again , neighbour , the night is not yet half worn but I will watch a while . 
Simon slept not , but durst not move . 
So they lay till it was broad day , and the sunbeams came thrusting through the boughs of the thicket . 
CHRISTOPHER COMES TO THE TOFTS . 
Mayhappen thou shalt fare a long way to day , muttered Simon . 
Save us , Allhallows ! quoth Christopher , but thou wilt mean the Tofts ! Is it so , sir squire ? Even so , said Simon . 
And thou knowest what dwellest there , and wouldst have me lead thee thither ? said the lad . 
I am so bidden , said Simon if thou wilt not do my bidding , seek thou some place to hide thee in from the hand of the Earl Marshal . 
What then ? This , said Christopher , that , as all tales tell , he will take my life if I ride thither . 
And , said he , turning to Simon , this is belike what thou wouldest with me ? And therewith he drew out his sword , for his bow was unstrung . 
Maybe he is not so black as he is painted , and not all tales told of him are true . 
But some of them I will tell thee as we ride along . 
And some thereof I know already , O woodland knight , said Simon , as they rode down the bent , and Christopher led on toward the green causeway betwixt the waters . 
In the Uttermost March we deem that he had a case against the baron . 
Hah ! said Simon again . 
Christopher reddened , and held his peace awhile then he said Well fellow farer , at least I shall know something of him ere next midnight . 
Therewith he spurred on , for the greensward was hard under the hooves , and they had yet some way to go before they should come amongst the trees and thickets . 
If we lie down here , maybe Jack's folk may come upon us sleeping , and some mischance may befall us . 
Withal , hereabout be no wild horses to wake thee and warn thee of thy foeman anigh . 
Speak then , said Christopher , but hasten , for I hunger , and I would we were in the hall . 
Come on , and do thine errand to Jack of the Tofts , and I will hold thee harmless , so far as I may . 
Though , sooth to say , I guessed what thine errand was , after the horses waked thee and put a naked sword in thine hand last night . 
Marry ! I had no inkling of it when we left the Castle yesterday morning , but deemed thy lord needed me to do him some service . 
And I say that we shall not go far without tidings . 
But suddenly they heard voices , and it was as if the wood had all burst out into fire , so bright a light shone out . 
Nay , belike he may live as long as thou , or longer , whereas thou wilt ever be shoving thy red head and lank body wheresoever knocks are going . 
That is well , said the young man , though I would I were with them . 
And therewith he walked up and down impatiently , while the others were getting ready the litter of boughs . 
At last it was done , and Christopher laid thereon , and they all went on together through the woodland path , the torches still flaring about them . 
Beside him sat a woman , tall and big made , but very fair of face , though she were little younger , belike , than the man . 
Out from these two sat four men and four women , man by man and woman by woman , on either side of the high seat . 
Shortly to say it , his sons they were , as David and the two young men with him . 
What will ye do with him ? What , said Jack of the Tofts , but tend him and heal him and cherish him . 
And when he is well , then we shall see . 
Mayhappen not , said the master . 
Now , forsooth , I have an inkling of what this may mean whereas there can be but one man whose business may be the taking of our little guest's life . 
But let all be till he be healed and may tell us his tale and , if he telleth it as I deem he will , then shall we seek further tidings . 
SQUIRE SIMON COMES BACK TO OAKENHAM . 
THE EARL MARSHAL TAKEN TO KING IN OAKENREALM . 
The Earl Marshal looked on him grimly and said Where is the ring then ? I have it not , said Simon . 
Yet sore I doubt if the child be dead . 
But may God make me even as that young man if I be not mightier yet in a few days . 
So then Simon knelt to the Earl and made obeisance to him , and arose and went his ways , light hearted and merry . 
But now the tale leaves telling of him , and turns again to Christopher the woodman , who lay sick of his hurt in the House of the Tofts . 
CHAPTER X. OF CHRISTOPHER AT THE TOFTS . 
caught my hand and drew me back indoors , and I heard the men laughing behind me . 
'Nay , Lord , said my nurse , 'he is but scantly five . 
He knit his brows and said 'Nay , I tell thee he is six . 
Now then , how old is he ? She said faintly 'Six years . 
Said he 'Look to it that thy head and thy mouth forget it not , else shall we make thy back remember it . 
Then I went away with my nurse , and wondered why she was grown so pale , whereas she was mostly red cheeked and jolly . 
But when she had brought me into the cot again , she kissed me and clipped me , weeping sorely the while wherefore I wept , though I knew not why . 
Jack sat silent a little then he laughed and said Well , thou art a mickle babe , Christopher , and it may be that one day many a man shall know it . 
But hearken ! for I have other tidings for thee . 
Thou art now whole and strong , and in a few days thou mayst wend the wild wood as stoutly as e'er a one of us . 
The Tofts go down to battle at some whiles but seldom comet battle to the Tofts and no battle do I look for now . 
Yea , yea , said Christopher , laughing thou puttest force on no man , is it not so , foster father ? Wherefore I will go , and uncompelled . 
HOW CHRISTOPHER CAME TO LITTLEDALE TO ABIDE THERE A WHILE . 
Two milch kine also they drave with them . 
Meantime , said Joanna , thou shalt pay for thy meat and drink by telling us tales when we come home weary . 
Yea , said Christopher laughing , that ye may go to sleep before your time . 
OF GOLDILIND IN THE MAY MORNING AT GREENHARBOUR . 
Goldilind answered nought , but reddened and paled again as she clad her under the waiting maid's eyes . 
Then they went out together , and up a short stone stair , till they were level with the greensward without . 
It were indeed well that my Lady should strengthen herself this hour for the hour next to come . 
OF GOLDILIND IN THE GARTH . 
And so strong a wave of anguish swept over her , that she bowed her down upon the grass and wept bitterly . 
Without checking the nag she sped along , half mad with joy at the freedom of this happy morn . 
And when she awoke she deemed her sleep had been long , but it was not so , but scarce a score of minutes . 
and so bestrode the good horse , and shook the reins , and rode away much comforted and enheartened . 
OF GOLDILIND IN THE WILD WOOD . 
Goldilind rode on , hastening yet to put as many miles as she might betwixt her and Greenharbour . 
Then again she mounted , and rode on till dusk overtook her just as she came to a little river running from the north from pool to shallow , and shallow to pool . 
WHAT GOLDILIND FOUND IN THE WOOD . 
Withal she saw the bush move , though , as aforesaid , the morning was without wind . 
So stricken was she that she might neither cry out nor turn aside neither did she think to pull her gown out of her girdle to cover the nakedness of her legs . 
When they had thus stood a little while the man began to move toward her very slowly , nor did she dare to flee any the more . 
But when he was within half a dozen paces her face flushed red , and she did pull her gown out of its trusses and let it flow down . 
But he said I wot not of Greenharbour , how to find the way thereto , though we have heard of it . 
But comfort thyself , I pray thee , there is nought to fear in me . 
Yet still she spoke not , and was both shamefast and still not altogether unafraid . 
Yet , sooth to say , though his attire was but simple , he was nought wild or fierce to look on . 
From time to time she looked on him , and then dropped her eyes again . 
And yet so it is , that even now I fear thee somewhat . 
Yet I will pray thee not to be wroth if I ask thee whether I may do aught for thy need . 
Now she began somewhat to smile , and she looked him full in the face , and said Forsooth , my need is simple , for I am hungry . 
Come quickly , dear maiden , and leave thine horse to crop the grass . 
She looked up at him smiling , but her pleasure of the meat and the kindness was so exceeding , that she might not refrain from tears also , but she spake not . 
Nay , she said , tell me , for I would know . 
and loth I were if thou wert not really of mankind , if it were but for the glory of the world . 
Couldst thou have seen him , thou wouldst love him I deem . 
What name hath he ? said Goldilind . 
He hight David , said Christopher . 
Something else am I , but I may not tell thee what as yet . 
Yea , said she , looking at him wonderingly , hast thou not been fetching my horse to me ? So it is , said he but something else also . 
Ask me , or I cannot tell thee . 
She laughed , and said What else , fair sir ? Said he Ask me what , or I cannot tell thee . 
Well , what , then ? said she . 
She answered him nothing , and he held his peace . 
But in a while she said If thou wouldst have us come to thine house , thou shalt lead us thither now . 
And therewith she took her foot gear from out of her girdle , as if she would do it on , and he turned his face away , but sighed therewith . 
Then said Christopher Lady , this is now Littledale , and yonder the house thereof . 
She smiled on him , and ate and drank a little deal , and he with her . 
Said Christopher To me it hath been merry and happy enough but now it seems to me as if it had all been made for thee and this meeting . 
Is it therefore no longer merry to thee because of that ? she said , smiling , yet flushing much red therewith . 
Now it was his turn not to answer her , and she cast down her eyes before him , and there was silence between them . 
But may it not be thy fellows coming back ? Nay , nay , he said they rode not in armour . 
Hark to it ! and these hounds are deep voiced sleuth dogs ! But come now , there may yet be time . 
But if not , surely they shall do thee no hurt for I think , indeed , that thou art some great one . 
O go not to the door ! Stay by me , stay ! Nay , nay , he said , there is nought for it but the deed of arms . 
But I shall yet slay one or two before I die . 
Get thee back , lord , or thou shalt be the first . 
And if thou wilt stand aside thou mayst go free to the devil for us . 
For he hath slain two of our men outright , and hath hurt many , and , methinks , the devil of the woods is in his body . 
So do thou bid him be quiet , if thou wouldst not see his blood flow . 
She turned a pale unhappy face on Christopher , and said My friend , we bid thee withstand them no more , but let them do with thee as they will . 
But inwardly his heart burned with anger , and with love of that sweet Lady . 
Then they made him stand up , and led him without the house , and set him on a horse , and linked his feet together under the belly thereof . 
In this wise they left Littledale . 
GOLDILIND COMES BACK TO GREENHARBOUR . 
So all unhappily she laid her down in her bed , foreboding the worst , which she deemed might well be death at the hand of her jailers . 
As for Christopher , she saw the last of him as they entered the Castle gate , and knew not what they had done with him . 
So she lay in dismal thoughts , but at last fell asleep for mere weariness . 
When she awoke it was broad day , and there was someone going about in the chamber she turned , and saw that it was Aloyse . 
She felt sick at heart , and durst not move or ask of tidings but presently Aloyse turned , and came to the bed , and made an obeisance , but spake not . 
Nay , said the chambermaid , keep thine heart up for here is one at hand who would see thee , when it is thy pleasure to be seen . 
Yea , said Goldilind , Dame Elinor to wit . 
I wot not , said Aloyse , but even so it is . 
Befall it shall , said Aloyse I dreamed of thee three nights ago , and thou sitting on thy throne commanding and forbidding the great men . 
There hath been none headed or hanged in the base court to day . 
Sooth to say , they seemed to bear him no grudge therefor . 
But now I would counsel thee to arise and I am bidden to tire and array thee at the best . 
And now I would say a word in thine ear , to wit , that Dame Elinor feareth thee somewhat this morn . 
EARL GEOFFREY SPEAKS WITH GOLDILIND . 
And she answered him nothing , but as he spake her bosom began to heave , and the tears came into her eyes and rolled down her cheeks . 
Is it so , my Lady ? She might not speak for the tears that welled out from her heart but she bowed her head and strove to smile on him . 
But the Earl waved his hand , and those lords , and the women also , voided the chamber , and left those two alone , the Earl standing before her . 
She strove with her passion a while , and then she said Great Lord , I pray thee to hearken , and to have patience with a woman's weak heart . 
Prithee , sit down here beside me . 
It were unfitting , he said I shall take a lowlier seat . 
She reddened and said If it be so , it is God's work , and I praise him therefor . 
But how long will it last ? For grief slayeth beauty . 
He held his peace , and his face grew dark before her while she watched it . 
At last he spake in a harsh voice Lady , he said , it may not be here in Greenharbour must thou abide , or in some other castle apart from the folk . 
And now I tell thee I repent it , that I have asked grace of a graceless face . 
Although she spake strong words , it was with a mild and steady voice . 
At last he came back to her , and sat down before her and spake Maiden , thou art somewhat in error . 
True it is that I would sit firm in my seat and rule the land of Meadham , as belike none other could . 
She said Sir , those friends to whom thou hast delivered me are my foes , whether they were thy friends or not . 
Wilt thou compel me to tell thee all my shame ? They have treated me as a thrall who had whiles to play a queen's part in a show . 
Then leapt up the Earl and cried out Hah ! did he so ? Then I tell thee his monk's hood shall not be stout enough to save his neck . 
Now , my child , thou speakest tell me more , since my hair is whitening . 
She said I crave no vengeance , but mercy I crave , and thou mayst give it me . 
But tell me , there is a story of thy snatching a holiday these two days , and of a young man whom thou didst happen on . 
By Allhallows ! but thou art a firebrand , my Lady ! And he laughed therewith . 
The Earl knit his brow Yea , said he , and that story I have heard from the men at arms also . 
And yet more she reddened . 
Said the Earl Didst thou hear what he was , this man ? She said I deem from his own words that he was but a simple forester . 
Said the Earl He is the king of these good fellows and a perilous host they be . 
She sat down in her chair again , but still looked white and scared . 
Meantime , be of good cheer , for thou shalt be made as much of as may be , and live in mickle joy if thou wilt . 
And if any so much as give thee a hard word , it shall be the worse for them . 
Therewith he arose , and made obeisance to her , and departed . 
EARL GEOFFREY SPEAKETH WITH CHRISTOPHER . 
So he bade a squire lead him to where Christopher was held in ward , and went much pondering . 
where Goldilind had lain that other morn and he gave the squire leave , and entered and shut the door behind him , so that he and Christopher were alone together . 
Quoth the Earl I am the master of the land of Meadham , so there is no need to tell thee that I have thy life or death in my hand . 
Now thou wilt not deny that thou art of the company of Jack o' the Tofts ? It is sooth , said Christopher . 
Well , said the Earl , thou art bold then to have come hither , for thou sayest it that thou art a wolf's head and forfeit of thy life . 
Now , again , thou didst take the Lady of Meadham home to thy house yesterday , and wert with her alone a great while . 
Spake the Earl , laughing I will be no champion against thee , for I hold my skin and my bones of too much price thereto . 
Why , so it is , lad , said the Earl , laughing again , and some would say better by a good deal . 
But hearken ! if thou take it , thou must abide here in Greenharbour a long while , maybe yea , even so long as my Lady dwelleth here . 
Christopher flushed and said Lord , thou art kind and gracious , and I will take thy bidding . 
The Earl said Well , so it shall be then and presently thou shalt go out of this guard room a free man . 
Christopher held his peace and the Earl spake again Now is the shortest word best . 
We deem thee both goodly and doughty , and would wed thee to a great lady , even that one to whom thou hast shown kindness in the wilderness . 
Said Christopher It is the wont of great lords to mock poor folk , therefore I must not show anger against thee . 
I mock thee not , said the Earl I mean nought , but as my words say . 
Nay then , said Christopher , thou biddest me an evil deed , great Lord . 
Now was Christopher so troubled that he knew not what countenance to make , and scarce might he get a word out of his mouth a long while . 
At last he said Lord , I see that I must needs do thy will if this be no trap which thou hast set for me . 
But overwonderful it is , that a great lady should be wedded to a gangrel churl . 
Did she praise her life days to thee ? Nay , said Christopher I mind me well , she called herself the poor captive . 
She said but sooth , quoth the Earl and her going away from Greenharbour is instead of her captivity and I tell thee it is by that only I may make her joyous . 
And now one word thou that criest out For the Tofts in battle art not altogether unfriended , meseemeth . 
Christopher looked up proudly and fiercely he said Forsooth , Lord , my friends are good , though thou callest them wolf heads and gallows meat . 
Champion , said the Earl , laughing , that may well be sooth and there are a many ups and downs in the world . 
So , lad , I deem that thou hast chosen thy part but let not the tale thereof go out of thy mouth , or thou wilt gab away thy wedding . 
And to morrow there will be new tidings . 
And in all these things he was so far before everyone , that they marvelled at him , and said it was well indeed that he had not been slain yesterday . 
So wore the day at Greenharbour in merrier wise for all good folk than for many a day had been the wont there . 
OF THE WEDDING OF CHRISTOPHER AND GOLDILIND . 
Early on the morrow came the Earl unto Goldilind , and she received him gladly , as one who had fashioned life anew for her . 
And she was exceeding wroth . 
And still was she very wroth . 
Quoth the Earl As to the matter of my being King of Meadham , that will I be , whatever befall , or die in the place else . 
So if thou wilt not do my rede , then must the varlet whom thou lovest die , and at Greenharbour must thou abide with Dame Elinor . 
There is no help for it . 
She shrieked out at that word of his , and well nigh swooned , lying back in her chair but presently fell a weeping sorely . 
But the Earl said Hearken , my Lady , I am not without warrant to do this . 
Tell me , hast thou ever seen any fairer or doughtier than this youngling ? Never , said she . 
So say we all , he said . 
But if not , then do I depart from Greenharbour straightway , and take the youngling with me to hang him up on the first tree . 
Be wise , I pray thee . 
And therewith he went his ways . 
So Aloyse went her ways , and Goldilind bade her other women to array her in the best and goodliest wise that they might . 
And the day was yet somewhat young . 
OF THE WEDDING OF THOSE TWAIN . 
No other women were there in the hall till Goldilind and her serving women entered . 
Then spake the Earl again Lo ye , here hath been due betrothal of these twain , and ye may see how meet they be for each other in goodliness and kindness . 
So therewithal they went their ways to the chapel where was the wedding done as grandly as might be , considering they were in no grander place than Greenharbour . 
He spake this grimly , though he smiled as he spake . 
Yea and wherefore , carle ? said Earl Geoffrey . 
So the squire did the Earl's will , and both got Christopher's gear and also found Aloyse and gave her the Earl's word . 
Presently then came forth through the gate those two , hand in hand , and Earl Geoffrey with them . 
And he set Goldilind on her horse himself , and knelt before her to say farewell , and therewith was Christopher on his horse , and him the Earl saluted debonairly . 
Stand up on thy feet , said the Earl , and ye , my masters , draw out of earshot . 
Wherefore I pray thee take me with thee to Meadhamstead , even if it be to prison for here I shall die the worst of deaths . 
Thou mayst deem thyself lucky if I leave thee behind here . 
Nor needest thou trouble thee concerning Dame Elinor little more shalt thou hear of her henceforward . 
And moreover , this last time she suffered in her body for the helping of me so if thou mightest do her asking I were the better pleased . 
Then Aloyse knelt before Goldilind and kissed her feet , and wept , and drew back pale and trembling . 
OF THE WOODLAND BRIDE CHAMBER . 
They rode in silence a good way , and it was some three hours after noon , and the day as fair and bright as might be . 
Christopher held his peace for sweet shame that he was alone with a most fair maid , and she his own , and without defence against him . 
She said And dost thou mock me with that ? thou ? And she burst out weeping . 
He answered not , for sore grief smote him , remembering her hand in his but a little while ago . 
And again she hurried on , and he followed her . 
Then said she Thou sayest sooth , thou hast not wooed me , but taken me . 
She laughed therewith , as one in bitterness . 
But presently she turned to him , and he wondered , for in her face was longing and kindness nought like to her words . 
And again she rode on , and he followed , sick at heart and wondering sorely . 
So in a while she began to speak to him again , but as if there were nought but courtesy between them , and neither love nor hatred . 
There , then , Goldilind reined up , and looked about her , but Christopher looked on her and nought else . 
But he stood still , gazing on her in wonderment , and now she was drawn near to him she stood still before him , panting . 
Then he said Nay , Lady , for this night there was no need of thy disguising thee , to morrow it had been soon enough . 
She said I were fain if thou wouldst take my hand , and lead me back to our resting place . 
But he led her quietly back again to their place . 
Then she turned to him and said Now art thou the woodland god again , and the courtier no more so now will I worship thee . 
Not utterly feigned it was for I will say it , that I was grieved to the heart when I bethought me of Meadhamstead and the seat of my fathers . 
What sayest thou then ? Shalt thou be ever a woodman in these thickets , and a follower of Jack of the Tofts ? If so thou wilt , it is well . 
Therewith he went about , and plucked armfuls of the young bracken , and made a bed wide and soft , and spread the mantles thereover . 
For my foemen have given me to thee , and now shalt thou give thyself to me . 
So he drew near to her shyly , like unto one who hath been forgiven . 
And there was their bridal bed , and nought but the oak boughs betwixt them and the bare heavens . 
THEY FALL IN WITH FRIENDS . 
, and then set off running , giving out a great whoop therewithal . 
Presently came up the others , to wit , Gilbert and Joanna , and they also kissed and embraced Christopher , and all they were as full of joy as might be . 
And therewith she kissed Goldilind and she was kind , and sweet of flesh , and goodly of body , and Goldilind rejoiced in her . 
Christopher laughed , and sat down between them , and told all how it had gone with him , and of Goldilind , who she was . 
Young they were , troubles were behind them , and many a joy before them . 
THEY TAKE COUNSEL AT LITTLEDALE . 
Wherefore it behoveth to defend us by the ready hand and the bold heart and the wise head . 
So , I say , let us loiter here no longer , but go our ways to morrow to the Tofts , and take the rede of our elders . 
And therewith she threw her arms about Goldilind , and clipped her and kissed her and Goldilind reddened for pleasure and for joy that she was so sore prized by them all . 
NOW THEY ALL COME TO THE TOFTS . 
Next morning , while the day was yet young , they rode together , all of them , the nighest way to the Tofts , for they knew the wood right well . 
Meantime , when they got off their horses , the women and children thronged round about them and the children especially about Christopher , whom they loved much . 
Wore the bright day , and it drew toward sunset , and now the carles came straight into the hall by twos and threes , till there were a many within its walls . 
and then they fell to bringing in the service , all but what the fire was dealing with in the kitchen . 
Amidst all this , from close to the hall , rang out the sound of many horns winding a woodland tune . 
Jack stood before his folk clad in like wise with them , save that his head was bare but for an oak wreath . 
Said the other Not in thy time but for the last seven days it hath been the wont , and then off weapons and to supper peaceably . 
OF THE KING OF OAKENREALM . 
For the name of Rolf , King of Oakenrealm , was to those woodmen as the name of the Great Devil of Hell , so much was he their unfriend and their dastard . 
Once more then was there stir and glad tumult in the hall . 
Lo you , the sky without has not yet lost all memory of the sun , and in a little while it will be yellowing again to the dawn . 
Nought evil shall be the wild wood for our summer dwelling and what ! ere the winter come , we may have won us another house where erst my fathers feasted . 
And thereto , my friends , do I bid you all . 
But when the tumult sank a little , then cried out Jack of the Tofts Bring now the mickle shield , and let us look upon our King . 
Then cried out an old woman in a shrill voice Lo , how the hills rise up into tall mountains even so shall arise Child Christopher to the kingship . 
But one thing there is yet to tell of this feast . 
Ask then , said Christopher , with a pleasant face . 
And if that distance grow between us , it will avail nought to ask my boon then . 
Well , well , ask it now , friend , said the King , laughing I were fain of ending the day with a gift . 
So wore the time of that first night of the kingship of Child Christopher . 
OF THE HUSTING OF THE TOFTS . 
But men came not only from the stead and houses of the Tofts , but also from the woodland cots and dwellings anigh , of which were no few . 
Withal , as the saw saith The word flieth , the wight dieth . 
And it were well if they might gather a little host ere their foeman might gather a mickle . 
What do we then ? Then spake Jack of the Tofts This is well thought of by Haward of Whiteacre , and we must look to it . 
So all men went about their business , which was , for the most part , seeing to the victualling of the host . 
OF THE HOSTING IN HAZELDALE . 
On the morrow early was Jack of the Tofts dight for departure , with Christopher and David and Gilbert and five score of his best men . 
Nay , said King Christopher , reddening , it is for thee to yea say or nay say though true it is that I have bidden her farewell for two days' space . 
And the two stood looking on one another . 
Thereat all laughed who were within earshot , and were merry . 
So they wended the woodland ways , some afoot , some a horseback , of whom was Jack of the Tofts , but Christopher and David went afoot . 
And Goldilind rode a fair white horse which the Captain had gotten her . 
See , then , how rich I am , since I have both parted from thee and have thee . 
And therewith she louted down from her saddle , and they kissed together sweetly , and so thereafter wore the way . 
Forsooth it was not easy for the folk thereabout to live quietly , but if they were friends in some wise to Jack of the Tofts . 
Then Goldilind bade Christopher help her light down so he took her in his arms , and was not over hasty in setting her down again . 
But what say fellows ? Quoth the other twain More , more they were . 
Therewith he turned to Christopher and said Thy pardon , King , but these matters must be seen to straightway . 
Moreover , the Baron of Brimside is a stout carle , so fight we must , meseemeth . 
So there they abode the coming of the foe , and it was now hard on five o'clock . 
What ! he said , that I might have to thrust myself into the peril of snatching thee forth again ? And he laughed merrily . 
Nay , said he , this play must needs begin before it endeth and by Saint Nicholas , I deem that to day it beginneth well . 
But she put her hands before her face , and her shoulders were shaken with sobs . 
Alas ! sweetling , said he , that my joy should be thy sorrow ! But , I pray thee , take not these stout hearts for runaways . 
OF THE FIELD THAT WAS SET IN THE HOLM OF HAZELDALE . 
Do we in likewise , for they would talk with us . 
Shall we trust them , father ? said Christopher . 
Yea , now they are aland and have pitched their white shield . 
And hearken , that is their horn blow we an answer ho , noise ! set thy lips to the brass . 
Then uprose the Lord Gandolf , and greeted the Toft folk , and said Jack of the Tofts , thou ridest many manned to day . 
Yea , Lord , said Jack , and thou also . 
Lord , said Jack o' the Tofts , thou shalt hear mine errand , and then give heed to what thou wilt do . 
Said Jack It is not ill guessed . 
Yonder banner is the King's banner , and beareth on it the woman of Oakenrealm . 
The Lord bent his brows on him , and said Forsooth , rank reiver , I wotted not that thou hadst King Rolf for thy guest . 
Quoth Jack of the Tofts Forsooth , Lord , no such guest as the Earl Marshal Rolf would I have alive in my poor house . 
Well , Jack , said the big Lord , grinning , arede me the riddle , and then we shall see what is to be done , as thou sayest . 
Thou must win them first , Lord , said Jack of the Tofts . 
Then cried out Jack of the Tofts Hail to thy word , stout heart ! this is well offered , and I take it for myself and my Lord King here . 
And all that stood by and heard gave a glad sound with their voices , and their armour rattled and rang as man turned to man to praise their captains . 
Ye twain shall now wot that this is my quarrel , and that none but I shall take this battle upon him . 
Thou Lord of Brimside , wilt thou gainsay it ? Then I say thou liest , and lo here , my glove ! And he cast it down before the Lord . 
But here I take up this youngling's glove and on his head be his fate ! Now as to this battle . 
My will is , that we two champions be all alone and afoot on the eyot . 
Therewith all went ashore to either bank , save the Baron of Brimside and Christopher . 
So art thou dight and something tells me thou shalt do it off in victory . 
THE BATTLE ON THE HOLM . 
So when Christopher was armed , Jack turned about speedily , and so gat him back through the ford and stood there on the bank with the nine other folk of the Tofts . 
And by this time was Gandolf of Brimside armed also , and Oliver Marson , who had done his helm on him , was gone to his side of the river . 
Haps will go as haps will and it maybe that ye shall both live for another battle , and grow wiser , and mayhappen abide in the wood with the reiver's men . 
Now , Baron , sword in fist ! Gandolf drew his sword , muttering Ah , hah ! he is lordly and kingly enough , yet may this learn him a lesson . 
Indeed the blade was huge and brown and ancient , and sword and man had looked a very terror save to one great hearted . 
Then shalt thou be borne home , since thou canst not go , with no hindrance from us . 
Now was Oliver come indeed , and the other nine with him , and on the other side was come Jack of the Tofts and four others . 
But at last he said Lady and Queen , thou seest that we be well beloved that they rejoice so much in a little deed of mine . 
And still she spake nought , and held hand in hand . 
But Jack of the Tofts spake and said By St . 
King , thy strokes of this day have won thee Oakenrealm , or no man I know in field , and many a mother's son have they saved from death . 
For look thou yonder over the river , Goldilind , my Lady , and tell me what thou seest . 
She turned to him and said Lord Earl , I see warriors a many . 
A COUNCIL OF CAPTAINS THE HOST COMES TO BROADLEES , AND MAKES FOR WOODWALL . 
That night , though there was some little coming and going between the Tofters and the Brimsiders , yet either flock slept on their own side of the river . 
What say ye , lords ? None nay said it , so there was no more talk save as to the ordering of this or the other company . 
Now nought as yet had they heard at Broadlees of any force stirring against them . 
Even so did they , and made a halt at sunset on a pleasant hill above a river some three miles from Woodwall , and there they passed the night unmeddled with . 
And the day was yet young , and it lacked four hours of noon . 
King Christopher abode ill he saw the foemen were come off the level ground , and were mounting the bent slowly , and not in very good order or in ranks closely serried . 
Then arose from them a mighty shout All ! All ! One and All ! Albeit some there were who slunk away and said nought and none heeded them . 
So they came to the gate , and there the King made stay till Goldilind was fetched to him , so that they might ride into the good town side by side . 
Lo now , wilt thou forgive me this , or wilt thou punish me , O Lord King ? He laughed . 
AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE AND AN EVIL DEED . 
So there they kept watch and ward more heedfully than their wont was and King Christopher lodged with Goldilind at the house of a good man of the thorpe . 
Then spake the King and said Thou man , since thy face is hidden , this trusty man at arms shall stand by thee while we talk together . 
Quoth the King Maybe , yet before thou bring it forth I would see thy face , for meseems I have an inkling of thy voice . 
So the man cast back his hood , and lo , it was Simon the squire . 
Hah ! said Christopher , is it thou then ! hast thou another knife to give me ? Nay , said Simon , only the work of the knife . 
thou hast slain the Earl Marshal , who called himself the King of Oakenrealm my traitor and dastard he was but thy friend . 
Wherefore have I two evil deeds to reward thee , Simon , the wounding of me and the slaying of him . 
Said Simon That is to say , that either thou hadst slain him thyself , or bidden others to slay him . 
Said Simon Sorry payment for making thee a king ! Said Christopher Well , thou art in the right I may well give gold for getting rid of such as thou . 
Therewith came in the man at arms to tell him that the horse was come but stared wild when he saw the dead man on the ground . 
But Christopher said My lad , here hath been one who would have thrust a knife into an unarmed man , wherefore I must needs give him his wages . 
Wherefore now I will keep it for thee against thou comest back safe to me in the morning betimes , as I deem thou wilt , if thou wilt behight to St . 
Julian the helping of some poor body on the road . 
Go therefore , but send hither the guard for I am weary now , and would go to sleep without slaying any man else . 
So departed the man full of joy , and Christopher gathered his money together again , and so fared to his bed peacefully . 
KING CHRISTOPHER COMES TO OAKENHAM . 
And , quoth he , it is like enough that this gift to Oakenham , Lord King , has by now come to the gate thereof . 
Then the King gave that man the gold which he had promised , and he kissed the King's hand and went his ways a happy man . 
Thereafter sent Christopher for Jack of the Tofts , and told him in few words what had betid , and that Rolf the traitor was dead . 
But I doubt it not that they will deem of thee as thy father come back again and grown young once more . 
Now was Christopher eager well nigh unto weeping to behold his people that he should live amongst , and gladly he yea said the word of Jack of the Tofts . 
Thereafter were the gates opened , and King Christopher entered , and there was no gainsaying , and none spake a word of the Traitor Rolf . 
There then in the great hall of his father's house stood Christopher the King on the dais , and Goldilind beside him . 
OF CHILD CHRISTOPHER'S DEALINGS WITH HIS FRIENDS HIS FOLK . 
And never came he back hither , nor did mine eyes behold him ever . 
Here also lay my mother and gave birth to me , and died of sorrow , and her also I never saw , save with eyes that noted nought that I might remember . 
Wherefore to me also art thou in the stead of all kindred and affinity . 
As to David , at first Christopher bade him strongly to abide with him ever , for he loved him much . 
Many gifts the King gave him , and they sundered in all loving kindness , and the King said Farewell , friend , I shall remember thee and thy kindness for ever . 
But David said By the roof in Littledale and by the hearth thereof , thou shalt be ever in my mind . 
By my will no further will I go than this thine house . 
And all men rejoiced at the coming of this doughty man and the friend of the King . 
Then she spoke and said Welcome to thee , Sir Castellan of Greenharbour , we shall hear thy words gladly . 
I pardon thee not , but thank thee for what thou didst of good to me , said Goldilind , and I think that now thine errand shall be friendly . 
Then turned the Green Knight to the King , and he said Have I thy leave to speak , Lord King ? and he smiled covertly . 
Wherefore , Lady and Queen , I beseech thee to come to us , and stave off the riot and ruin . 
So when they heard her speak her will , they shouted for joy of the peace and goodwill that was to be . 
Or else There shall be no else , Lord King , quoth Geoffrey all men henceforth shall tell of me as a true man . 
So they were blithe and joyous together . 
So when they heard that , they all praised her , and were the more content . 
And when he died a very old man but one year after Goldilind his dear , no king that ever lived was so bewailed by his folk as was Child Christopher . 
The end of Project Gutenberg etext of Child Christopher by William Morris . 
