This etext was prepared with the use of Calera WordScan Plus . 
NEW YORK ROBERT M. McBRIDE COMPANY Copyright , . 
by Robert M. McBride Copyright , , by McBride , Nast Co . 
For one that with hope in the morning set forth , and knew never a fear , They have linked with another whom omens bother and he whispers in one's ear . 
And one is fain to be climbing where only angels have trod , But is fettered and tied to another's side who fears that it might look odd . 
And one would worship a woman whom all perfections dower , But the other smiles at transparent wiles and he quotes from Schopenhauer . 
Thus two by two we wrangle and blunder about the earth , And that body we share we may not spare but the Gods have need of mirth . 
So this is the song of the double soul , distortedly two in one . 
Of the wearied eyes that still behold the fruit ere the seed be sown , And derive affright for the nearing night from the light of the noontide sun . 
Then he toiled from the morn to the dusk again , Gave his gimcracks to peoples who mocked at him , Trampled on them , deriding , and went their way . 
Thus he labors , and loudly they jeer at him That is , when they remember he still exists . 
WHO , you ask , IS THIS FELLOW ? What matter names ? He is only a scribbler who is content . 
ELUCIDATES THE INEXPEDIENCY OF PUBLISHING THIS BOOK , AS WELL AS THE NECESSITY OF WRITING IT AND THENCE PASSES TO A MODEST DEFENSE OF MORE VITAL THEMES . 
The desire to write perfectly of beautiful happenings is , as the saying runs , old as the hills and as immortal . 
Some few there must be in every age and every land of whom life claims nothing very insistently save that they write perfectly of beautiful happenings . 
Such being the assumption upon which this volume is builded , it appears only equitable for the architect frankly to indicate his cornerstone . 
In proportion with its ability , be it repeated , since its ability is singularly hampered . 
For , apart from any ticklish temporal considerations , be it remembered , life is always claiming of this temperament's possessor that he write perfectly of beautiful happenings . 
a man who waives , however laughingly , his sole apology for existence . 
The proceeding is paltry enough , in all conscience and yet , upon the other side , there is much positive danger in giving to the instinct a loose rein . 
For in that event the familiar circumstances of sedate and wholesome living cannot but seem , like paintings viewed too near , to lose in gusto and winsomeness . 
Desire , perhaps a craving hunger , awakens for the impossible . 
No emotion , whatever be its sincerity , is endured without a side glance toward its capabilities for being written about . 
in search of that raw material which loving labor will transshape into comeliness . 
trot stolidly and safely toward oblivion . 
Such must always be the book's interpretation by mental indolence . 
The fact is incontestable and this fact in itself may be taken as sufficient to establish the inexpediency of publishing The Certain Hour . 
For that people will not buy a volume of short stories is notorious to all publishers . 
Now , clearly , the struggle of a special temperament with a fixed force does not forthwith begin another story when the locale of combat shifts . 
The combatants remain unchanged , the question at issue is the same , the tragedy has continuity . 
And always the fact remains that to the mentally indolent this book may well seem a volume of disconnected short stories . 
All of us being more or less mentally indolent , this possibility constitutes a dire fault . 
By similar logic it would be more wholesome to breakfast off laudanum than to omit the meal entirely . 
The nineteenth century , in fact , by making education popular , has produced in America the curious spectacle of a reading public with essentially nonliterary tastes . 
But publishers , among innumerable other conditions , must weigh the fact that no novel which does not deal with modern times is ever really popular among the serious minded . 
It is difficult to imagine a tale whose action developed under the rule of the Caesars or the Merovingians being treated as more than a literary hors d'oeuvre . 
When Shakespeare pronounced his celebrated dictum about art's holding the mirror up to nature , he was no doubt alluding to the circumstance that a mirror reverses everything which it reflects . 
Besides , in dealing with contemporary life a novelist is goaded into too many pusillanimous concessions to plausibility . 
He no longer moves with the gait of omnipotence . 
These freedoms are not tolerated in American noveldom , and only a few futile high brows sigh in vain for Thackeray's happy harmless Fableland , where these things are . 
The majority of us are deep in vital novels . 
Nor is the reason far to seek . 
IV One hears a great deal nowadays concerning vital books . 
Their authors have been widely praised on very various grounds . 
Now this definition is not likely ever to receive more praise than it deserves . 
Cavilers may , of course , complain that actually to write the last word on any subject is a feat reserved for the Recording Angel's unique performance on judgment Day . 
Yet the multiplication tables are not without their claims to applause as examples of straightforward narrative . 
It is equally allowable to find the less simple evolution of the digit seven more sympathetic , upon the whole , than those of Undine Spragg in The Custom of the Country . 
It points with emphasis toward the altruistic obligations of tale tellers to be vital . 
Did the decision rest with us all novelists would be put under bond to confine themselves forevermore to themes like these . 
A novel whose scene of action is explicit will always interest the people of that locality , whatever the book's other pretensions to consideration . 
And thus , upon a larger scale , the twentieth century is , pre eminently , interested in the twentieth century . 
It is all very well to describe our average novel readers' dislike of Romanticism as the rage of Caliban not seeing his own face in a glass . 
The answer , of course , in either case , is that the vital novel , the novel which peculiarly appeals to us average novel readers , has nothing to do with literature . 
There is between these two no more intelligent connection than links the paint Mr. Sargent puts on canvas and the paint Mr. Dockstader puts on his face . 
The modern novelist owes it to his public to select a vital theme which in itself will fix the reader's attention by reason of its familiarity in the reader's everyday life . 
Her reason was the perfectly sensible one that the Williamsons' plots used invariably to pivot upon motor trips , and she is an ardent automobilist . 
Since , as of late , the Williamsons have seen fit to exercise their typewriter upon other topics , they have as a matter of course lost her patronage . 
This principle of selection , when you come to appraise it sanely , is the sole intelligent method of dealing with reading matter . 
Now , reading for pastime is immensely simplified when the book's theme is some familiar matter of the reader's workaday life , because at outset the reader is spared considerable mental effort . 
The motorist above referred to , and indeed any average novel reader , can without exertion conceive of the Williamsons' people in their automobiles . 
Contrariwise , were these fictitious characters embarked in palankeens or droshkies or jinrikishas , more or less intellectual exercise would be necessitated on the reader's part to form a notion of the conveyance . 
And we average novel readers do not open a book with the intention of making a mental effort . 
The author has no right to expect of us an act so unhabitual , we very poignantly feel . 
As endurability goes , reading the book rises forthwith almost to the level of an afternoon call where there is gossip about the neighbors and Germany's future . 
We average novel readers may not , in either case , agree with the opinions advanced but at least our prejudices are aroused , and we are interested . 
And these vital themes awake our prejudices at the cost of a minimum if not always , as when Miss Corelli guides us , with a positively negligible tasking of our mental faculties . 
For such exemption we average novel readers cannot but be properly grateful . 
Nay , more than this provided the novelist contrive to rouse our prejudices , it matters with us not at all whether afterward they be soothed or harrowed . 
To implicate our prejudices somehow , to raise in us a partizanship in the tale's progress , is our sole request . 
For we average novel readers are quite frequently reduced by circumstances to self entrustment to the resources of the novelist , as to those of the dentist . 
Our latter day conditions , as we cannot but recognize , necessitate the employment of both artists upon occasion . 
And with both , we average novel readers , we average people , are most grateful when they make the process of resorting to them as easy and unirritating as may be possible . 
V So much for the plea of us average novel readers and our plea , we think , is rational . 
To voice a hoary truism , time alone is the test of vitality . 
In our present flood of books , as in any other flood , it is the froth and scum which shows most prominently . 
And the possession of vitality , here as elsewhere , postulates that its possessor must ultimately perish . 
And this is as it should be . 
Yet the desire to write perfectly of beautiful happenings is , as the saying runs , old as the hills and as immortal . 
This , then , is the conclusion of the whole matter . 
Some few there must be in every age and every land of whom life claims nothing very insistently save that they write perfectly of beautiful happenings . 
And even we average novel readers know it is such folk who are to day making in America that portion of our literature which may hope for permanency . 
It is as if the intellect and the will had become used to moving paralytically among visions , dreams , and mystic terrors , weighed down with torpor . 
Aubade , from F. York Powells version . 
BELHS CAVALIERS You may read elsewhere of the long feud that was between Guillaume de Baux , afterward Prince of Orange , and his kinsman Raimbaut de Vaquieras . 
They were not reconciled until their youth was dead . 
Many slain men were scattered along the highway when he came again into Venaissin , in April , after an absence of thirty years . 
The crows whom his passing disturbed were too sluggish for long flights and many of them did not heed him at all . 
Prince Guillaume laughed a little when he told his kinsman of the posture of affairs , as more loudly did Guillaume's gross son , Sire Philibert . 
But Madona Biatritz did not laugh . 
Biatritz said , It is a long while since we two met . 
He that had been her lover all his life said , Yes . 
But he lamented nothing , and to him she was as ever Heaven's most splendid miracle . 
Yes , said this old Raimbaut , and even to day we have not reclaimed the Sepulcher as yet . 
Oh , I doubt if we shall ever win it , now that your brother and my most dear lord is dead . 
Both thought a while of Boniface de Montferrat , their playmate once , who yesterday was King of Thessalonica and now was so much Macedonian dust . 
She said This week the Prince sent envoys to my nephew . 
She said You never married ? He answered No , I have left love alone . 
For Love prefers to take rather than to give against a single happy hour he balances a hundred miseries , and he appraises one pleasure to be worth a thousand pangs . 
Pardieu , let this immortal usurer contrive as may seem well to him , for I desire no more of his bounty or of his penalties . 
No , we wish earnestly for nothing , either good or bad , said Dona Biatritz we who have done with loving . 
They sat in silence , musing over ancient happenings , and not looking at each other , until the Prince came with his guests , who seemed to laugh too heartily . 
Guillaume's frail arm was about his kinsman , and Guillaume chuckled over jests and by words that had been between the cousins as children . 
Raimbaut found them no food for laughter now . 
Guillaume told all of Raimbaut's oath of fealty , and of how these two were friends and their unnatural feud was forgotten . 
For we grow old , eh , maker of songs ? he said and it is time we made our peace with Heaven , since we are not long for this world . 
Yes , said the knight oh yes , we both grow old . 
We are friends now , he said . 
Biatritz , whom these two had loved , and whose vanished beauty had been the spur of their long enmity , sat close to them , and hardly seemed to listen . 
Thus the evening passed and every one was merry , because the Prince had overcome Lovain of the Great Tooth , and was to punish the upstart on the morrow . 
Thus the evening passed , and at its end Makrisi followed the troubadour to his regranted fief of Vaquieras . 
This was a chill and brilliant night , swayed by a frozen moon so powerful that no stars showed in the unclouded heavens , and everywhere the bogs were curdled with thin ice . 
An obdurate wind swept like a knife blade across a world which even in its spring seemed very old . 
This night is bleak and evil , Makrisi said . 
He rode a coffin's length behind his master . 
It is like Prince Guillaume , I think . 
What man will sorrow when dawn comes ? Raimbaut de Vaquieras replied Always dawn comes at last , Makrisi . 
It comes the more quickly , messire , when it is prompted . 
The troubadour only smiled at words which seemed so meaningless . 
He did not smile when later in the night Makrisi brought Mahi de Vernoil , disguised as a mendicant friar . 
This outlaw pleaded with Sire Raimbaut to head the tatters of Lovain's army , and showed Raimbaut how easy it would be to wrest Venaissin from Prince Guillaume . 
We cannot save Lovain , de Vemoil said , for Guillaume has him fast . 
But Venaissin is very proud of you , my tres beau sire . 
Ho , maker of world famous songs ! stout champion of the faith ! my men and I will now make you Prince of Orange in place of the fiend who rules us . 
You may then at your convenience wed Madona Biatritz , that most amiable lady whom you have loved so long . 
And by the Cross ! you may do this before the week is out . 
The old knight answered It is true that I have always served Madona Biatritz , who is of matchless worth . 
I might not , therefore , presume to call myself any longer her servant were my honor stained in any particular . 
Oh no , Messire de Vernoil , an oath is an oath . 
I have this day sworn fealty to Guillaume de Baux . 
Then after other talk Raimbaut dismissed the fierce eyed little man . 
The freebooter growled curses as he went . 
On a sudden he whistled , like a person considering , and he began to chuckle . 
Raimbaut said , more lately Zoraida left no wholesome legacy in you , Makrisi . 
This Zoraida was a woman the knight had known in Constantinople a comely outlander who had killed herself because of Sire Raimbaut's highflown avoidance of all womankind except the mistress of his youth . 
Nay , save only in loving you too well , messire , was Zoraida a wise woman , notably . 
But this is outworn talk , the prattle of Cain's babyhood . 
As matters were , you did not love Zoraida . 
Such is the custom in my country . 
You trouble me , Makrisi . 
Your eyes are like blown coals . 
Yet you have served me long and faithfully . 
I have lived by warfare . 
Long , long ago , since I derived no benefit from love , I cried farewell to it . 
Love makes a demi god of all just for an hour . 
Such hours as follow we devote to the concoction of sleeping draughts . 
He laughed , and very harshly . 
And Raimbaut did not sleep that night because this life of ours seemed such a piece of tangle work as he had not the skill to unravel . 
So he devoted the wakeful hours to composition of a planh , lamenting vanished youth and that Biatritz whom the years had stolen . 
For you loathe me and you still worship my sister in law , an unattainable princess . 
In these two particulars you display such wisdom as would inevitably prompt you to make an end of me . 
Oh , yes , I understand my barons perfectly . 
I flatter myself I understand everybody in Venaissin save you . 
Raimbaut answered You and I are not alike . 
No , praise each and every Saint ! said the Prince of Orange , heartily . 
Yes , you have always gained everything which you desired in this world , Guillaume . 
Yet it was at a price , I think . 
But you have never comprehended me , not even in the old days when we loved each other . 
His was never a rapid mind . 
Why , no , I do not know anything about hatred , he said , at last . 
I think I never hated any person . 
Guillaume de Baux gave a half frantic gesture . 
Michel to witness the death of Lovain . 
Guillaume took with him his two new mistresses and all his by blows , each magnificently clothed , as if they rode to a festival . 
Afterward , before the doors of Lovain's burning house , a rope was fastened under Lovain's armpits , and he was gently lowered into a pot of boiling oil . 
His feet cooked first , and then the flesh of his legs , and so on upward , while Lovain screamed . 
His hands caressed each other meditatively . 
It was on the afternoon of this day , the last of April , that Sire Raimbaut came upon Madona Biatritz about a strange employment in the Ladies' Court . 
There was then a well in the midst of this enclosure , with a granite ledge around it carven with lilies and upon this she leaned , looking down into the water . 
In her lap was a rope of pearls , which one by one she unthreaded and dropped into the well . 
Clear and warm the weather was . 
Without , forests were quickening , branch by branch , as though a green flame smoldered from one bough to another . 
Violets peeped about the roots of trees , and all the world was young again . 
But here was only stone beneath their feet and about them showed the high walls and the lead sheathed towers and the parapets and the sunk windows of Guillaume's chateau . 
There was no color anywhere save gray and Raimbaut and Biatritz were aging people now . 
This woman might have been a wraith in verity , for she was clothed throughout in white , save for the ponderous gold girdle about her middle . 
A white gorget framed the face which was so pinched and shrewd and strange and she peered into the well , smiling craftily . 
Yes , yes , this is that chaplet which you won in the tournament at Montferrat when we were young . 
Pearls are the symbol of tears , we read . 
But we had no time for reading then , no time for anything except to be quite happy . 
You saw this morning's work . 
It is a great mystery why such persons should win all which they desire of this world . 
We can but recognize that it is for some sufficient reason . 
Of Zoraida he did not speak . 
Thus these spent people sat and talked for a long while , the talk veering anywhither just as chance directed . 
Blurred gusts of song and laughter would come to them at times from the hall where Guillaume de Baux drank with his courtiers , and these would break the tranquil flow of speech . 
Then , unvexedly , the gentle voice of the speaker , were it his or hers , would resume . 
No , he replied I am not often merry . 
There was a time when love and its service kept me in continuous joy , as waters invest a fish . 
I woke from a high dream . 
And then , but for the fear of seeming cowardly , I would have extinguished my life as men blow out a candle . 
Vanity preserved me , sheer vanity ! He shrugged , spreading his hard lean hands . 
Belhs Cavaliers , I grudged my enemies the pleasure of seeing me forgetful of valor and noble enterprises . 
And so , since then , I have served Heaven , in default of you . 
I would not have it otherwise , she said , half as in wonder I would not have you be quite sane like other men . 
And I believe , she added still with her wise smile you have derived a deal of comfort , off and on , from being heart broken . 
He replied gravely A man may always , if he will but take the pains , be tolerably content and rise in worth , and yet dispense with love . 
He has only to guard himself against baseness , and concentrate his powers on doing right . 
Thus , therefore , when fortune failed me , I persisted in acting to the best of my ability . 
Though I had lost my lands and my loved lady , I must hold fast to my own worth . 
Without a lady and without acreage , it was yet in my power to live a cleanly and honorable life and I did not wish to make two evils out of one . 
Assuredly , I would not have you be quite sane like other men , she repeated . 
It would seem that you have somehow blundered through long years , preserving always the ignorance of a child , and the blindness of a child . 
I cannot understand how this is possible nor can I keep from smiling at your high flown notions and yet , I envy you , Raimbaut . 
Thus the afternoon passed , and the rule of Prince Guillaume was made secure . 
His supper was worthily appointed , for Guillaume loved color and music and beauty of every kind , and was on this , the day of his triumph , in a prodigal humor . 
But Raimbaut de Vaquieras was not mirthful , for he was remembering a boy whom he had known of very long ago . 
Guillaume had left the Warriors' Hall . 
Philibert was drunk , and half the men at arms were snoring among the rushes , when at the height of their festivity Makrisi came . 
He plucked his master by the sleeve . 
A swarthy , bearded Angevin was singing . 
His song was one of old Sire Raimbaut's famous canzons in honor of Belhs Cavaliers . 
He showed a jeweled dagger , and the knight arose and followed him out of that uproarious hall . 
Raimbaut was bitterly perturbed , though he did not know for what reason , as Makrisi led him through dark corridors to the dull gleaming arras of Prince Guillaume's apartments . 
Raimbaut said What do you want of me ? Whose blood is on that knife ? Have you forgotten it is Walburga's Eve ? Makrisi said . 
Raimbaut did not regret he could not see his servant's countenance . 
Time was we named it otherwise and praised another woman than a Saxon wench , but let the new name stand . 
People moan in their sleep , and many pillows are pricked by needles that have sewed a shroud . 
Full tide , full tide ! Makrisi said , and his voice jangled like a bell as he drew aside the curtain so that the old knight saw into the room beyond . 
It was a place of many lights , which , when thus suddenly disclosed , blinded him at first . 
Then Raimbaut perceived Guillaume lying a sprawl across an oaken chest . 
The Prince had fallen backward and lay in this posture , glaring at the intruders with horrible eyes which did not move and would not ever move again . 
His breast was crimson , for some one had stabbed him . 
A woman stood above the corpse and lighted yet another candle while Raimbaut de Vaquieras waited motionless . 
A hand meant only to bestow caresses brushed a lock of hair from this woman's eyes while he waited . 
The movements of this hand were not uncertain , but only quivered somewhat , as a taut wire shivers in the wind , while Raimbaut de Vaquieras waited motionless . 
I must have lights , I must have a host of candles to assure me past any questioning that he is dead . 
The man is of deep cunning . 
I think he is not dead even now . 
Lightly Biatritz touched the Prince's breast . 
But I am not afraid as yet . 
I am afraid of nothing save the dark , for one cannot be merry in the dark . 
Raimbaut said This is Belhs Cavaliers whom I have loved my whole life through . 
Therefore I do not doubt . 
Pardieu , I do not even doubt , who know she is of matchless worth . 
Wherein have I done wrong , Raimbaut ? She came to him with fluttering hands . 
Why , but look you , the man had laid an ambuscade in the marsh and he meant to kill you there to night as you rode for Vaquieras . 
He told me of it , told me how it was for that end alone he lured you into Venaissin Again she brushed the hair back from her forehead . 
Raimbaut , I spoke of God and knightly honor , and the man laughed . 
No , I think it was a fiend who sat so long beside the window yonder , whence one may see the marsh . 
There were no candles in the room . 
The moonlight was upon his evil face , and I could think of nothing , of nothing that has been since Adam's time , except our youth , Raimbaut . 
And he smiled fixedly , like a white image , because my misery amused him . 
Only , when I tried to go to you to warn you , he leaped up stiffly , making a mewing noise . 
He caught me by the throat so that I could not scream . 
Then while we struggled in the moonlight your Makrisi came and stabbed him Nay , I but fetched this knife , messire . 
Makrisi seemed to love that bloodied knife . 
Biatritz proudly said The man lies , Raimbaut . 
What need to tell me that , Belhs Cavaliers ? And the Saracen shrugged . 
It is very true I lie , he said . 
As among friends , I may confess I killed the Prince . 
But for the rest , take notice both of you , I mean to lie intrepidly . 
Raimbaut remembered how his mother had given each of two lads an apple , and he had clamored for Guillaume's , as children do , and Guillaume had changed with him . 
In addition there was a fire of juniper wood and frankincense upon the hearth , and the room smelt too cloyingly of be drugging sweetness . 
Then on the walls were tapestries which depicted Merlin's Dream , so that everywhere recoiling women smiled with bold eyes and here their wantonness seemed out of place . 
Listen , Makrisi was saying listen , for the hour strikes . 
At last , at last ! he cried , with a shrill whine of malice . 
Raimbaut said , dully Oh , I do not understand And yet Zoraida loved you once ! loved you as people love where I was born ! The Saracen's voice had altered . 
His speech was like the rustle of papers . 
You did not love Zoraida . 
And so it came about that upon Walburga's Eve , at midnight , Zoraida hanged herself beside your doorway . 
Thus we love where I was born . 
And I , I cut the rope with my left hand . 
I had my other arm about that frozen thing which yesterday had been Zoraida , you understand , so that it might not fall . 
And in the act a tear dropped from that dead woman's cheek and wetted my forehead . 
Ice is not so cold as was that tear . 
Ho , that tear did not fall upon my forehead but on my heart , because I loved that dancing girl , Zoraida , as you do this princess here . 
I think you will understand , Makrisi said , calmly as one who states a maxim . 
The Sire de Vaquieras replied , in the same tone I understand . 
You have contrived my death ? Ey , messire , would that be adequate ? I could have managed that any hour within the last score of years . 
Oh no ! for I have studied you carefully . 
Oh no ! instead , I have contrived this plight . 
For the Prince of Orange is manifestly murdered . 
Who killed him ? why , Madona Biatritz , and none other , for I will swear to it . 
I , I will swear to it , who saw it done . 
Afterward both you and I must be questioned upon the rack , as possibly concerned in the affair , and whether innocent or guilty we must die very horribly . 
Such is the gentle custom of your Christian country when a prince is murdered . 
That is not the point of the jest , however . 
For first Sire Philibert will put this woman to the Question by Water , until she confesses her confederates , until she confesses that every baron whom Philibert distrusts was one of them . 
Ha , Philibert will see to this confession ! And through this woman's torment he will rid himself of every dangerous foe he has in Venaissin . 
You must stand by and wait your turn . 
Makrisi went on , quietly After the Question men will parade her , naked to the middle , through all Orange , until they reach the Marketplace , where will be four horses . 
One of these horses they will harness to each arm and leg of your Biatritz . 
Then they will beat these horses . 
These will be strong horses . 
They will each run in a different direction . 
This infamy also was certain . 
Raimbaut foresaw what he must do . 
He clutched the dagger which Makrisi fondled . 
Belhs Cavaliers , this fellow speaks the truth . 
Look now , the moon is old is it not strange to know it will outlive us ? And Biatritz came close to Sire Raimbaut and said I understand . 
If I leave this room alive it will purchase a hideous suffering for my poor body , it will bring about the ruin of many brave and innocent chevaliers . 
I would perforce confess all that the masked men bade me . 
Then , kneeling , he cried , in an extremity of adoration Oh , I have served you all my life . 
You may not now deny me this last service . 
I have drunk too deep of sorrow . 
She did not dispute this . 
I would not grant it , dear , were my weak hands as clean as yours . 
It is a long while since those children laughed at Montferrat . 
Not yet , not yet ! she said . 
Ah , pity me , tried champion , for even now I am almost afraid to die . 
She leaned against the window yonder , shuddering , staring into the night . 
Dawn had purged the east of stars . 
Day was at hand , the day whose noon she might not hope to witness . 
Then Biatritz came to him , very strangely proud , and yet all tenderness . 
See , now , Raimbaut ! because I have loved you as I have loved nothing else in life , I will not be unworthy of your love . 
Raimbaut de Vaquieras raised an already bloodied dagger . 
As emotion goes , he was bankrupt . 
He had no longer any dread of hell , because he thought that , a little later , nothing its shrewdest overseer could plan would have the power to vex him . 
She , waiting , smiled . 
Makrisi , seated , stretched his legs , put fingertips together with the air of an attendant amateur . 
This was better than he had hoped . 
In such a posture they heard a bustle of armored men , and when all turned , saw how a sword protruded through the arras . 
Come out , Guillaume ! people were shouting . 
He first saw what a grisly burden the chest sustained . 
Then de Vernoil perceived Raimbaut de Vaquieras , and the spruce little man bowed ceremoniously . 
My tres beau sire , Messire de Vernoil ended , will you or nill you , Venaissin is yours this morning . 
My knaves have slain Philibert and his bewildered fellow tipplers with less effort than is needed to drown as many kittens . 
He waited thus , with both hands pressed before his eyes . 
He waited thus for a long while , because he was not used to find chance dealing kindlily with him . 
Later he saw that Makrisi had vanished in the tumult , and that many people awaited his speaking . 
The lord of Venaissin began You have done me a great service , Messire de Vemoil . 
As recompense , I give you what I may . 
I freely yield you all my right in Venaissin . 
Oh no , kingcraft is not for me . 
I daily see and hear of battles won , cities beleaguered , high towers overthrown , and ancient citadels and new walls leveled with the dust . 
I have conversed with many kings , the directors of these events , and they were not happy people . 
Yes , yes , I have witnessed divers happenings , for I am old . 
I have found nothing which can serve me in place of honor . 
He turned to Dona Biatritz . 
It was as if they were alone . 
Belhs Cavaliers , he said , I had sworn fealty to this Guillaume . 
He violated his obligations but that did not free me of mine . 
An oath is an oath . 
I was , and am to day , sworn to support his cause , and to profit in any fashion by its overthrow would be an abominable action . 
Nay , more , were any of his adherents alive it would be my manifest duty to join them against our preserver , Messire de Vernoil . 
This necessity is very happily spared me . 
I cannot , though , in honor hold any fief under the supplanter of my liege lord . 
I must , therefore , relinquish Vaquieras and take eternal leave of Venaissin . 
I will not lose the right to call myself your servant ! he cried out and that which is noblest in the world must be served fittingly . 
And so , Belhs Cavaliers , let us touch palms and bid farewell , and never in this life speak face to face of trivial happenings which we two alone remember . 
Yes , yes ! you must depart from Venaissin , said Dona Biatritz . 
A capable woman , she had no sympathy with his exquisite points of honor , and yet loved him all the more because of what seemed to her his surpassing folly . 
She smiled , somewhat as mothers do in humoring an unreasonable boy . 
We will go to my nephew's court at Montferrat , she said . 
He will willingly provide for his old aunt and her husband . 
And you may still make verses at Montferrat , where we lived verses , once , Raimbaut . 
Now they gazed full upon each other . 
Thus they stayed , transfigured , neither seeming old . 
Each had forgotten that unhappiness existed anywhere in the whole world . 
The armored , blood stained men about them were of no more importance than were those wantons in the tapestry . 
Without , dawn throbbed in heaven . 
Without , innumerable birds were raising that glad , piercing , hurried morning song which very anciently caused Adam's primal waking , to behold his mate . 
BALTHAZAR'S DAUGHTER A curious preference for the artificial should be mentioned as characteristic of ALESSANDRO DE MEDICI'S poetry . 
Let me seem Solomon for lore of words , Samson for strength , for beauty Absalom . 
Knights as my serfs be given And as I will , let music go and come Till , when I will , I will to enter Heaven . 
Madrigal , from D. G. Rossetti's version . 
BALTHAZAR'S DAUGHTER Graciosa was Balthazar's youngest child , a white , slim girl with violet eyes and strange pale hair which had the color and glitter of stardust . 
Some day at court , her father often thought complacently , she , too , will make a good match . 
He was a necessitous lord , a smiling , supple man who had already marketed two daughters to his advantage . 
But Graciosa's time was not yet mature in the year of grace , for the girl was not quite sixteen . 
So Graciosa remained in Balthazar's big cheerless house and was tutored in all needful accomplishments . 
Now to the north of Balthazar's home stood a tall forest , overhanging both the highway and the river whose windings the highway followed . 
Graciosa was very often to be encountered upon the outskirts of these woods . 
She loved the forest , whose tranquillity bred dreams , but was already a woman in so far that she found it more interesting to watch the highway . 
Sometimes it would be deserted save for small purple butterflies which fluttered about as if in continuous indecision , and rarely ascended more than a foot above the ground . 
Then destiny took a hand in the affair and Guido came . 
He reined his gray horse at the sight of her sitting by the wayside and deferentially inquired how far it might be to the nearest inn . 
He thanked her and rode on . 
That was all , but the appraising glance of this sedate and handsome burgher obscurely troubled the girl afterward . 
Next day he came again . 
He was a jewel merchant , he told her , and he thought it within the stretch of possibility that my lord Balthazar's daughter might wish to purchase some of his wares . 
Very often afterward these two met on the outskirts of the forest as Guido rode between the coast and the hill country about his vocation . 
Sometimes he laughingly offered her a bargain , on other days he paused to exhibit a notable gem which he had procured for this or that wealthy amateur . 
Count Eglamore , the young Duke's favorite yonder at court , bought most of them , it seemed . 
The nobles complain against this upstart Eglamore very bitterly , said Guido , but we merchants have no quarrel with him . 
Her father's people , it should be premised , had been at bitter feud with the favorite ever since he detected and punished the conspiracy of the Marquis of Cibo , their kinsman . 
Then Graciosa continued Nevertheless , I shall see many beautiful sights when I am taken to court . 
And the Duke , too , you tell me , is an amateur of gems . 
Eh , madonna , I wish that you could see his jewels , cried Guido , growing fervent and he lovingly catalogued a host of lapidary marvels . 
I hope that I shall see these wonderful jewels when I go to court , said Graciosa wistfully . 
Duke Alessandro , he returned , his dark eyes strangely mirthful , is , as I take it , a catholic lover of beauty in all its forms . 
So he will show you his gems , very assuredly , and , worse still , he will make verses in your honor . 
For it is a preposterous feature of Duke Alessandro's character that he is always making songs . 
Oh , and such strange songs as they are , too , Guido . 
Who does not know them ? I am not the best possible judge of his verses' merit , Guido estimated , drily . 
But I shall never understand how any singer at all came to be locked in such a prison . 
I fancy that at times the paradox puzzles even Duke Alessandro . 
And is he as handsome as people report ? Then Guido laughed a little . 
Tastes differ , of course . 
But I think your father will assure you , madonna , that no duke possessing such a zealous tax collector as Count Eglamore was ever in his lifetime considered of repulsive person . 
But presently Graciosa was questioning him again as to the court , whither she was to go next year and enslave a marquis , or , at worst , an opulent baron . 
Her thoughts turned toward the court's predominating figure . 
Tell me of Eglamore , Guido . 
Madonna , some say that Eglamore was a brewer's son . 
Others and your father's kinsmen in particular insist that he was begot by a devil in person , just as Merlin was , and Plato the philosopher , and puissant Alexander . 
Nobody knows anything about his origin . 
Guido was sitting upon the ground , his open pack between his knees . 
Between the thumb and forefinger of each hand he held caressingly a string of pearls which he inspected as he talked . 
Nobody , he idly said , nobody is very eager to discuss Count Eglamore's origin now that Eglamore has become indispensable to Duke Alessandro . 
Yes , it is thanks to Eglamore that the Duke has ample leisure and needful privacy for the pursuit of recreations which are reputed to be curious . 
I do not understand you , Guido . 
It is perhaps as well , the merchant said , a trifle sadly . 
To be brief , madonna , business annoys the Duke . 
So Alessandro makes verses and amuses himself as his inclinations prompt , and Alessandro's people are none the worse off on account of it . 
Heigho , I foresee that I shall never fall in love with the Duke , Graciosa declared . 
It is unbefitting and it is a little cowardly for a prince to shirk the duties of his station . 
What would I do if I were a great lord instead of a tradesman ? I think you know the answer , madonna . 
Oh , you would make me your duchess , of course . 
That is quite understood , said Graciosa , with the lightest of laughs . 
But I was speaking seriously , Guido . 
Guido at that considered her intently for a half minute . 
His countenance was of portentous gravity , but in his eyes she seemed to detect a lurking impishness . 
And it is not a serious matter that a peddler of crystals should have dared to love a nobleman's daughter ? You are perfectly right . 
Indeed , I am not certain that I worship you , for in order to adore wholeheartedly , the idolater must believe his idol to be perfect . 
I do not admire these faults , for faults they are undoubtedly . 
It is true you have no choice in the matter , but you will participate in a monstrous bargain , and I would prefer to have you exhibit distaste for it . 
And with that he returned composedly to inspection of his pearls . 
And to what end , Guido ? It was the first time Graciosa had completely waived the reticence of a superior caste . 
You saw that the child's parted lips were tremulous , and you divined her childish fits of dreading that glittering , inevitable court life shared with an unimaginable husband . 
But Guido only grumbled whimsically . 
I am afraid that men do not always love according to the strict laws of logic . 
I desire your happiness above all things yet to see you so abysmally untroubled by anything that troubles me is another matter . 
But I am not untroubled , Guido she began swiftly . 
Graciosa broke off in speech , shrugged , flashed a smile at him . 
For I cannot fathom you , Ser Guido , and that troubles me . 
Yes , I am very fond of you , and yet I do not trust you . 
You tell me you love me greatly . 
It pleases me to have you say this . 
You perceive I am very candid this morning , Messer Guido . 
You would not incur such hare brained risks unless you cared very greatly and yet , somehow , I do not believe it is altogether for me you care . 
Then Guido was in train to protest an all mastering and entirely candid devotion , but he was interrupted . 
Most women have these awkward intuitions , spoke a melodious voice , and turning , Graciosa met the eyes of the intruder . 
This magnificent young man had a proud and bloodless face which contrasted sharply with his painted lips and cheeks . 
In the contour of his protruding mouth showed plainly his negroid ancestry . 
His scanty beard , as well as his frizzled hair , was the color of dead grass . 
He was sumptuously clothed in white satin worked with silver , and around his cap was a gold chain hung with diamonds . 
Now he handed his fringed riding gloves to Guido to hold . 
Yes , madonna , I suspect that Eglamore here cares greatly for the fact that you are Lord Balthazar's daughter , and cousin to the late Marquis of Cibo . 
For Cibo has many kinsmen at court who still resent the circumstance that the matching of his wits against Eglamore's earned for Cibo a deplorably public demise . 
If he could make a match with you , though , your father thrifty man ! would be easily appeased . 
Yes , honor would permit a truce , and Eglamore could bind them to his interests within ten days , and be rid of the necessity of sleeping in chain armor . 
Have I not unraveled the scheme correctly , Eglamore ? Your highness was never lacking in penetration , replied the other in a dull voice . 
He stood motionless , holding the gloves , his shoulders a little bowed as if under some physical load . 
His eyes were fixed upon the ground . 
He divined the change in Graciosa's face and did not care to see it . 
And so you are Count Eglamore , said Graciosa in a sort of whisper . 
I had thought you were my friend , Guido . 
I must not call you Guido any longer . 
She gave a little shiver here . 
He stayed motionless and did not look at her . 
I have often wondered what manner of man you were . 
It is very strange you should be capable of so much wickedness , for to me you seem only a sullen lackey . 
He winced and raised his eyes at this . 
He knew these accusations at least to be demonstrable lies , for as it happened he had never found his advancement to hinge upon the commission of the crimes named . 
But even so , the past was a cemetery he did not care to have revivified . 
And it was you who detected the Marquis of Cibo's conspiracy . 
Tebaldeo was my cousin , Count Eglamore , and I loved him . 
We used to play here in these woods , and I remember how Tebaldeo once fetched me a wren's nest from that maple yonder . 
I was weeping because I was afraid he would fall . 
If he had fallen and been killed , it would have been the luckier for him , Graciosa sighed . 
They say that he conspired . 
Then your servants took Tebaldeo , still living , and laid him upon a carriage wheel which was hung upon a pivot . 
The upper edge of this wheel was cut with very fine teeth like those of a saw , so that his agony might be complete . 
Tebaldeo's poor mangled legs were folded beneath his body so that his heels touched the back of his head , they tell me . 
I gave orders for the Marquis of Cibo's execution . 
I did not devise the manner of his death . 
The punishment for Cibo's crime was long ago fixed by our laws . 
Cibo plotted to kill the Duke . 
But the girl waved this aside . 
And then you plan this masquerade . 
You plan to make me care for you so greatly that even when I know you to be Count Eglamore I must still care for you . 
You plan to marry me , so as to placate Tebaldeo's kinsmen , so as to bind them to your interests . 
She seemed to plead with him . 
Look you , Count Eglamore , I was a child only yesterday . 
I have never loved any man . 
But you have loved many women , I know , and long experience has taught you many ways of moving a woman's heart . 
But I am getting angry over nothing . 
He pitied this betrayed child quite ineffably , because in her sorrow she was so pretty . 
Fie , Donna Graciosa , you must not be too harsh with Eglamore . 
It is his nature to scheme , and he weaves his plots as inevitably as the spider does her web . 
He had drawn closer to the girl , and he brought a cloying odor of frangipani , bergamot and vervain . 
His nostrils quivered , his face had taken on an odd pinched look , for all that he smiled as over some occult jest . 
Graciosa was a little frightened by his bearing , which was both furtive and predatory . 
Oh , do not be offended , for I have some rights to say what I desire in these parts . 
For , Dei gratia , I am the overlord of these parts , Graciosa a neglected prince who wondered over the frequent absences of his chief counselor and secretly set spies upon him . 
Eglamore here will attest as much . 
Or if you cannot believe poor Eglamore any longer , I shall have other witnesses within the half hour . 
Oh , yes , they are to meet me here at noon some twenty crop haired stalwart cut throats . 
They will come riding upon beautiful broad chested horses covered with red velvet trappings that are hung with little silver bells which jingle delightfully . 
They will come very soon , and then we will ride back to court . 
Duke Alessandro touched his big painted mouth with his forefinger as if in fantastic mimicry of a man imparting a confidence . 
I think that I shall take you with me , Graciosa , for you are very beautiful . 
You are as slim as a lily and more white , and your eyes are two purple mirrors in each of which I see a tiny image of Duke Alessandro . 
The woman I loved yesterday was a big splendid wench with cheeks like apples . 
It is not desirable that women should be so large . 
All women should be little creatures that fear you . 
They should have thin , plaintive voices , and in shrinking from you be as slight to the touch as a cobweb . 
It is not possible to love a woman ardently unless you comprehend how easy it would be to murder her . 
God , God ! said Count Eglamore , very softly , for he was familiar with the look which had now come into Duke Alessandro's face . 
And the girl did not speak at all , but stood motionless , staring in bewildered , pitiable , childlike fashion , and the color had ebbed from her countenance . 
You fear me , do you not , Graciosa ? See , now , when I touch your hand it is soft and cold as a serpent's skin , and you shudder . 
I am very tired of women who love me , of all women with bold , hungry eyes . 
To you my touch will always be a martyrdom , you will always loathe me , and therefore I shall not weary of you for a long while . 
Your father shall have all the wealth and state that even his greedy imaginings can devise , so long as you can contrive to loathe me . 
We will find you a suitable husband . 
You shall have flattery and titles , gold and fine glass , soft stuffs and superb palaces such as are your beauty's due henceforward . 
He glanced at the peddler's pack , and shrugged . 
So Eglamore has been wooing you with jewels ! You must see mine , dear Graciosa . 
We will select the rarest , and have a pair of slippers encrusted with them , in which you shall dance for me . 
You would have suited otherwise . 
No , no , we must seek out some other person of discretion . 
It will all be very amusing , for I think that she is now quite innocent , as pure as the high angels are . 
See , Eglamore , she cannot speak , she stays still as a lark that has been taken in a snare . 
It will be very marvelous to make her as I am . 
He meditated , as , obscurely aware of opposition , his shoulders twitched fretfully , and momentarily his eyes lightened like the glare of a cannon through its smoke . 
You made a beast of me , some long faced people say . 
Beware lest the beast turn and rend you . 
Count Eglamore plucked aimlessly at his chin . 
Then he laughed as a dog yelps . 
He dropped the gloves which he had held till this , deliberately , as if the act were a rite . 
His shoulders straightened and purpose seemed to flow into the man . 
No , he said quietly , I will not have it . 
It was not altogether I who made a brain sick beast of you , my prince but even so , I have never been too nice to profit by your vices . 
Yes , in some part it is my own handiwork which is my ruin . 
Nevertheless , you shall not harm this child . 
I venture to remind you , Eglamore , that I am still the master of this duchy . 
Alessandro was languidly amused , and had begun to regard his adversary with real curiosity . 
Oh , yes , but that is nothing to me . 
At court you are the master . 
At court I have seen mothers raise the veil from their daughters' faces , with smiles that were more loathsome than the grimaces of a fiend , because you happened to be passing . 
But here in these woods , your highness , I see only the woman I love and the man who has insulted her . 
This is very admirable fooling , the Duke considered . 
So ! said the Duke . 
The farce ascends in interest . 
He drew with a flourish , with actual animation , for sottish , debauched and power crazed as this man was , he came of a race to whom danger was a cordial . 
Very luckily a sword forms part of your disguise , so let us amuse ourselves . 
The Duke descended blithely into the level road and placed himself on guard . 
Then both men silently went about the business in hand . 
Both were oddly calm , almost as if preoccupied by some more important matter to be settled later . 
Then Eglamore thrust savagely and in the act trod the edge of a puddle , and fell ignominiously prostrate . 
His sword was wrenched ten feet from him , for the Duke had parried skilfully . 
Eglamore lay thus at Alessandro's mercy . 
Well , well ! the Duke cried petulantly , and am I to be kept waiting forever ? You were a thought quicker in obeying my caprices yesterday . 
Get up , you muddy lout , and let us kill each other with some pretension of adroitness . 
Eglamore rose , and , sobbing , caught up his sword and rushed toward the Duke in an agony of shame and rage . 
His attack now was that of a frenzied animal , quite careless of defense and desirous only of murder . 
Twice the Duke wounded him , but it was Alessandro who drew backward , composedly hindering the brutal onslaught he was powerless to check . 
Then Eglamore ran him through the chest and gave vent to a strangled , growling cry as Alessandro fell . 
Eglamore wrenched his sword free and grasped it by the blade so that he might stab the Duke again and again . 
He meant to hack the abominable flesh , to slash and mutilate that haughty mask of infamy , but Graciosa clutched his weapon by the hilt . 
The girl panted , and her breath came thick . 
He gave you your life . 
She leaned now upon his shoulder , her face brushing his as he knelt over the unconscious Duke and Eglamore found that at her dear touch all passion had gone out of him . 
Madonna , he said equably , the Duke is not yet dead . 
It is impossible to let him live . 
You may think he voiced only a caprice just now . 
I think so too , but I know the man , and I know that all this madman's whims are ruthless and irresistible . 
Living , Duke Alessandro's appetites are merely whetted by opposition , so much so that he finds no pleasures sufficiently piquant unless they have God's interdiction as a sauce . 
Living , he will make of you his plaything , and a little later his broken , soiled and castby plaything . 
It is therefore necessary that I kill Duke Alessandro . 
She parted from him , and he too rose to his feet . 
And afterward , she said quietly , and afterward you must die just as Tebaldeo died . 
That is the law , madonna . 
But whether Alessandro enters hell to day or later , I am a lost man . 
Oh , that is very true , she said . 
A moment since you were Count Eglamore , whom every person feared . 
Now there is not a beggar in the kingdom who would change lots with you , for you are a friendless and hunted man in peril of dreadful death . 
But even so , you are not penniless , Count Eglamore , for these jewels here which formed part of your masquerade are of great value , and there is a world outside . 
The frontier is not two miles distant . 
You have only to escape into the hill country beyond the forest , and you need not kill Duke Alessandro after all . 
I would have you go hence with hands as clean as possible . 
He found it quaint to note how calm she was and how tranquilly his own thoughts ran . 
But first the Duke must die , because I dare not leave you to his mercy . 
How does that matter ? she returned . 
You know very well that my father intends to market me as best suits his interests . 
Here I am so much merchandise . 
The Duke is as free as any other man to cry a bargain . 
And I do not see how a wedding can in any way ennoble the transaction by causing it to profane a holy sacrament . 
Ah , no , Balthazar's daughter was near attaining all that she had been taught to desire , for a purchaser came and he bid lavishly . 
You know very well that my father would have been delighted . 
But you must need upset the bargain . 
No , I will not have it ! Count Eglamore must cry . 
It cost you very highly to speak those words . 
Ah , yes , my father would have thought you mad . 
I had no choice , he said , and waved a little ges ture of impotence . 
He spoke as with difficulty , almost wearily . 
It is a theme on which I do not embroider . 
So long as I had thought to use you as an instrument I could woo fluently enough . 
To day I saw that you were frightened and helpless oh , quite helpless . 
And something changed in me . 
I knew for the first time that I loved you and that I was not clean as you are clean . 
What it was of passion and horror , of despair and adoration and yearning , which struggled in my being then I cannot tell you . 
It spurred me to such action as I took , but it has robbed me of sugared eloquence , it has left me chary of speech . 
It is necessary that I climb very high because of my love for you , and upon the heights there is silence . 
Here I am so much merchandise . 
Heigho , since I cannot help it , since bought and sold I must be , one day or another , at least I will go at a noble price . 
Oh , my girl ! he whispered . 
And I am vain enough to believe I shall not ever be very far from home so long as I am near to my friend's heart . 
A mortal man could not but take her in his arms . 
Now I must pay for that sorry shaping , just as , I think , you too must pay some day . 
They turned toward the hills , and entered a forest whose ordering was time's contemporary , and where there was no grandeur save that of the trees . 
But upon the summit of the nearest hill they paused and looked over a restless welter of foliage that glittered in the sun , far down into the highway . 
It bustled like an unroofed ant hill , for the road was alive with men who seemed from this distance very small . 
Duke Alessandro's attendants had found him and were clustered in a hubbub about their reviving master . 
Dwarfish Lorenzino de Medici was the most solicitous among them . 
Beyond was the broad river , seen as a ribbon of silver now , and on its remoter bank the leaded roofs of a strong fortress glistened like a child's new toy . 
Tilled fields showed here and there , no larger in appearance than so many outspread handkerchiefs . 
It is a very rich and lovely land , said Eglamore this kingdom which a half hour since lay in the hollow of my hand . 
He viewed it for a while , and not without pensiveness . 
Then he took Graciosa's hand and looked into her face , and he laughed joyously . 
Now my charms are all o'erthrown , And what strength I have's my own , Which is most faint . 
As you from crimes would pardon'd be , Let your indulgence set me free . 
He was hoping , while his fingers drummed in unison with the beat of his verse , that this last play at least would rouse enthusiasm in the pit . 
The welcome given its immediate predecessors had undeniably been tepid . 
He sat in a neglected garden whose growth was in reversion to primal habits . 
The season was September , the sky a uniform and temperate blue . 
A peachtree , laden past its strength with fruitage , made about him with its boughs a sort of tent . 
The grass around his writing table was largely hidden by long , crinkled peach leaves some brown and others gray as yet and was dotted with a host of brightly colored peaches . 
Fidgeting bees and flies were excavating the decayed spots in this wasting fruit , from which emanated a vinous odor . 
The bees hummed drowsily , their indus try facilitating idleness in others . 
Here was an arid forenoon as imagi nation went . 
A seasoned plagiarist by this , he opened a book which lay upon the table among several others and duly found the chapter entitled Of the Cannibals . 
So , so ! he said aloud . 
He wrote while his left hand held the book flat as orderly as any county clerk might do in the recordance of a deed of sale . 
Midcourse in larceny , he looked up from writing . 
He saw a tall , dark lady who was regarding him half sorrowfully and half as in the grasp of some occult amusement . 
He released the telltale book . 
His eyebrows lifted , banteringly . 
He found it characteristic of her that she went silently to the table and compared the printed page with what he had just written . 
So nowadays you have turned pickpocket ? My poet , you have altered . 
He said Why , yes . 
When you broke off our friendship , I paid you the expensive compliment of falling very ill . 
They thought that I would die . 
They tell me even to day I did not die . 
And to day I must continue to write plays , because I never learned any other trade . 
And so , at need , I pilfer . 
The topic did not seem much to concern him . 
Eh , and such plays ! the woman cried . 
My poet , there was a time when you created men and women as glibly as Heaven does . 
Now you make sugar candy dolls . 
The last comedies were not all I could have wished , he assented . 
In fact , I got only some L clear profit . 
There speaks the little tradesman I most hated of all persons living ! the woman sighed . 
Now , as in impatience , she thrust back her traveling hood and stood bare headed . 
Then she stayed silent , tall , extraordinarily pallid , and with dark , steady eyes . 
Their gaze by ordinary troubled you , as seeming to hint some knowledge to your belittlement . 
Now he , a reputable householder , was wondering what would be the upshot of this intrusion . 
His visitor , as he was perfectly aware , had little patience with such moments of life as could not be made dramatic . 
He was recollecting many trifles , now his mind ran upon old times . 
She said , abruptly I do not think I ever loved you as women love men . 
Our youth is so long past , and we two are so altered that we , I think , may speak of its happenings now without any bitterness . 
I hated those sordid , petty traits . 
I raged at your incessant pretensions to gentility because I knew you to be so much more than a gentleman . 
You complained I treated you like a lackey it was not unnatural when of your own freewill you played the lackey so assiduously . 
Faith , I do not say you are altogether in the wrong , he assented . 
They could be very useful to me Pembroke , and Southampton , and those others and so I endeavored to render my intimacy acceptable . 
What would you have ? The man of letters , like the carpenter or the blacksmith , must live by the vending of his productions , not by the eating of them . 
The woman waved this aside . 
She paced the grass in meditation , the peach leaves brushing her proud head caressingly , it seemed to him . 
Later she came nearer in a brand new mood . 
She smiled now , and her voice was musical and thrilled with wonder . 
But what a poet Heaven had locked inside this little parasite ! It used to puzzle me . 
She laughed , and ever so lightly . 
Eh , and did you never understand why by preference I talked with you at evening from my balcony ? It was because I could forget you then entirely . 
There was only a voice in the dark . 
There was a sorcerer at whose bidding words trooped like a conclave of emperors , and now sang like a bevy of linnets . 
And wit and fancy and high aspirations and my love because I knew then that your love for me was splendid and divine these also were my sorcerer's potent allies . 
I understood then how glad and awed were those fabulous Greekish queens when a god wooed them . 
Yes , then I understood . 
How long ago it seems ! Yes , yes , he sighed . 
In that full blooded season was Guenevere a lass , I think , and Charlemagne was not yet in breeches . 
And when there was a new play enacted I was glad . 
For it was our play that you and I had polished the last line of yesterday , and all these people wept and laughed because of what we had done . 
And I was proud The lady shrugged impatiently . 
Proud , did I say ? and glad ? That attests how woefully I fall short of you , my poet . 
You would have found some magic phrase to make that ancient glory articulate , I know . 
Yet , did I ever love you ? I do not know that . 
I only know I sometimes fear you robbed me of the power of loving any other man . 
He raised one hand in deprecation . 
I must remind you , he cried , whimsically , that a burnt child dreads even to talk of fire . 
Her response was a friendly nod . 
Oh , and now , my dear , you are again that resistless gipsy who so merrily beguiled me to the very heart of loss . 
You are all that I have had , and lost , and vainly hunger for . 
Here in this abominable village , there is no one who understands not even those who are more dear to me than you are . 
I only spoil good paper which might otherwise be profitably used to wrap herrings in , they think . 
They give me ink and a pen just as they would give toys to a child who squalled for them too obstinately . 
And Poesy is a thrifty oracle with no words to waste upon the deaf , however loudly her interpreter cry out to her . 
Oh , I have hungered for you , my proud , dark lady ! the playmaker said . 
Afterward they stood quite silent . 
And then the moment's rapture failed him . 
I am a sorry fool , he said and lightly he ran on You are a skilful witch . 
Yet you have raised the ghost of an old madness to no purpose . 
You seek a master poet ? You will find none here . 
Perhaps I was one once . 
But most of us are poets of one sort or another when we love . 
Do you not understand ? To day I do not love you any more than I do Hecuba . 
She waited , used as she was to his unstable temperament , a trifle puzzled . 
Presently he spoke There was a time when a master poet was needed . 
He was found nay , rather made . 
Fate hastily caught up a man not very different from the run of men one with a taste for stringing phrases and with a comedy or so to his discredit . 
Fate merely bid him love a headstrong child newly released from the nursery . 
We know her well enough , she said . 
The girl was faithless , and tyrannous , and proud , and coquettish , and unworthy , and false , and inconstant . 
She was black as hell and dark as night in both her person and her living . 
You were not niggardly of vituperation . 
Faith , he replied , but sonnets are a more natural form of expression than affidavits , and they are made effective by compliance with differ ent rules . 
I find no flagrant fault with you to day . 
What child would not amuse herself with such engaging toys ? Vivacity and prettiness and cruelty are the ordinary attributes of kittenhood . 
And I submitted with clear eyes , because I could not help it . 
Yes , I who am by nature not disposed to underestimate my personal importance I submitted , because your mockery was more desirable than the adoration of any other woman . 
And all this helped to make a master poet of me . 
Eh , why not , when such monstrous passions spoke through me as if some implacable god elected to play godlike music on a mountebank's lute ? And I made admirable plays . 
He was a paunchy , inconsiderable little man . 
Odd passions played about it , as when on a sullen night in August summer lightnings flicker and merge . 
His voice had found another cadence . 
But Fate was not entirely ruthless . 
Fate bade the child become a woman , and so grow tired of all her childhood's playthings . 
This was after a long while , as we esti mate happenings . 
Yes , I went down to the doors of death , as people say , in my long illness . 
I was only a broken instrument flung by because the god had wearied of playing . 
I would give forth no more heart wringing music , for the musician had departed . 
And I still lived I , the stout little tradesman whom you loathed . 
Yes , that tradesman scrambled through these evils , somehow , and came out still able to word adequately all such imaginings as could be devised by his natural abilities . 
But he transmitted no more heart wringing music . 
She said , You lie ! He said , I thank Heaven daily that I do not . 
She knew it , and her heart was all rebellion . 
Indefatigable birds sang through the following hush . 
A wholesome and temperate breeze caressed these silent people . 
Bees that would die to morrow hummed about them tirelessly . 
Then the poet said I loved you and you did not love me . 
It is the most commonplace of tragedies , the heart of every man alive has been wounded in this identical fashion . 
A master poet is only that wounded man among so many other bleeding folk who perversely augments his agony , and utilizes his wound as an inkwell . 
Presently time scars over the cut for him , as time does for all the others . 
He does not suffer any longer . 
No , and such relief is a clear gain but none the less , he must henceforward write with ordinary ink such as the lawyers use . 
I should have been the man , the woman cried . 
Faith , and I think you would have , he assented . 
For I regret the unlived life that I was meant for the comfortable level life of little happenings which all my schoolfellows have passed through in a stolid drove . 
I was equipped to live that life with relish , and that life only and it was denied me . 
It was demolished in order that a book or two be made out of its wreckage . 
She said , with half shut eyes There is a woman at the root of all this . 
And how he laughed ! Did I not say you were a witch ? Why , most assuredly there is . 
He motioned with his left hand . 
Some hundred yards away a young man , who was carrying two logs toward New Place , had paused to rest . 
A girl was with him . 
Now laughingly she was pretending to assist the porter in lifting his burden . 
It was a quaintly pretty vignette , as framed by the peach leaves , because those two young people were so merry and so candidly in love . 
A symbolist might have wrung pathos out of the girl's desire to aid , as set against her fond inadequacy and the attendant playwright made note of it . 
Well , well ! he said Young Quiney is a so so choice , since women must necessarily condescend to intermarrying with men . 
But he is far from worthy of her . 
Tell me , now , was there ever a rarer piece of beauty ? The wench is not ill favored , was the dark lady's unenthusiastic answer . 
So ! but who is she ? He replied She is my daughter . 
Yonder you see my latter muse for whose dear sake I spin romances . 
I do not mean that she takes any lively interest in them . 
That is not to be expected , since she cannot read or write . 
Ask her about the poet we were discussing , and I very much fear Judith will bluntly inform you she cannot tell a B from a bull's foot . 
But one must have a muse of some sort or another and so I write about the world now as Judith sees it . 
My Judith finds this world an eminently pleasant place . 
And if affairs go badly for a while , and you have done nothing very wrong why , of course , Heaven will soon straighten matters satisfactorily . 
For nothing that happens to us can possibly be anything except a benefit , because God orders all happenings , and God loves us . 
There you have Judith's creed and upon my word , I believe there is a great deal to be said for it . 
To day I have lost many illusions , madam , and that ranks among them . 
I never knew a wicked person . 
I question if anybody ever did . 
In short , I find humanity to be both a weaker and a better meaning race than I had suspected . 
And so , I make what you call sugar candy dolls , because I very potently believe that all of us are sweet at heart . 
Oh no ! men lack an innate aptitude for sinning and at worst , we frenziedly attempt our misdemeanors just as a sheep retaliates on its pursuers . 
This much , at least , has Judith taught me . 
The woman murmured Eh , you are luckier than I. I had a son . 
He was borne of my anguish , he was fed and tended by me , and he was dependent on me in all things . 
She said , with a half sob , My poet , he was so little and so helpless ! Now he is dead . 
My dear , my dear ! he cried , and he took both her hands . 
I also had a son . 
He would have been a man by this . 
They stood thus for a while . 
I had forgotten that you hate to touch my hands . 
I know they are too moist and flabby . 
I always knew that you thought that . 
That is a trivial thing to say . 
But you also have seen your own flesh lying in a coffin so small that even my soft hands could lift it . 
To day I find that the roughest winds abate with time . 
Yes , that is true . 
But is it gain , my poet ? for I had thought it to be loss . 
With age we gain the priceless certainty that sorrow and injustice are ephemeral . 
Solvitur ambulando , my dear . 
I have attested this merely by living long enough . 
He laughed at this season and fell into a lighter tone . 
Do I preach like a little conventicle attending tradesman ? Faith , you must remember that when I talk gravely Judith listens as if it were an oracle discoursing . 
For Judith loves me as the wisest and the best of men . 
I protest her adoration frightens me . 
What if she were to find me out ? I loved what was divine in you , the woman answered . 
Then Judith nursed and tended and caressed me and Judith only in all the world ! as once you did that boy you spoke of . 
Judith , too , remembered . 
I was her father , for all that I had forsaken my family to dance Jack pudding attendance on a fine Court lady . 
You are unfair , she cried . 
Oh , you are cruel , you juggle words , make knives of them . 
But you had mirth and beauty once , and I had only love and a vocabulary . 
Under old oaks lovers will mouth my verses , and the acorns are not yet shaped from which those oaks will spring . 
My adoration and your perfidy , all that I have suffered , all that I have failed in even , has gone toward the building of an enduring monument . 
All these will be immortal , because youth is immortal , and youth delights in demanding explanations of infinity . 
There is a leaven , he said there is a leaven even in your smuggest and most inconsiderable tradesman . 
She answered , with a wistful smile I , too , regret my poet . 
That clash of sibi lants is both harsh and ungrammatical . 
Shall should be changed to will . 
And I did not know until to day how much I loved my poet . 
Yes , I know now I loved him . 
I would I had not come . 
Not even for you , who are a master smith of words to day and nothing more . 
Do you so little emulate a higher example that even for a moment you consider me ? She did not answer . 
When she had gone , the playmaker sat for a long while in meditation and then smilingly he took up his pen . 
He was bound for an uninhabited island where all disasters ended in a happy climax . 
Rather , let us say , We are such stuff As dreams are made on Oh , good , good ! Now to pad out the line . 
In any event , the Bermudas are a seasonable topic . 
Now here , instead of thickly templed India , suppose we write the still vexed Bermoothes Good , good ! It fits in well enough . 
And so in clerkly fashion he sat about the accomplishment of his stint of labor in time for dinner . 
And presently the strong joy of creating kindled in him , and phrase flowed abreast with thought , and the playmaker wrote fluently and surely to an accompaniment of contented ejaculations . 
He regretted nothing , he would not now have laid aside his pen to take up a scepter . 
For surely he would have said to live untroubled , and weave beautiful and winsome dreams is the most desirable of human fates . 
only to sink into an amiable calm . 
My Lovers how They Come and Part . 
CONCERNING CORINNA The matter hinges entirely upon whether or not Robert Herrick was insane . 
Sir Thomas Browne always preferred to think that he was whereas Philip Borsdale perversely considered the answer to be optional . 
Perversely , Sir Thomas protested , because he said that to believe in Herrick's sanity was not conducive to your own . 
This much is certain the old clergyman , a man of few friends and no intimates , enjoyed in Devon , thanks to his time hallowed reputation for singularity , a certain immunity . 
Herrick's presence almost as inevitable as his shadow . 
It was no crime to be fond of dumb animals , not even of one so inordinately unprepossessing and you allowed for eccentricities , in any event , in dealing with a poet . 
For Totnes , Buckfastleigh , Dean Prior all that part of Devon , in fact complacently basked in the reflected glory of Robert Herrick . 
People came from a long distance , now that the Parliamentary Wars were over , in order just to see the writer of the Hesperides and the Noble Numbers . 
Now , Philip Borsdale , as Sir Thomas knew , had been employed by Herrick in various transactions here irrelevant . 
Browne complied , because his business with Borsdale was of importance . 
Philip Borsdale was lounging in Dr . 
Herrick's chair , intent upon a lengthy manuscript , alone and to all appearances quite at home . 
The state of the room Sir Thomas found extraordinary but he had graver matters to discuss and he explained the results of his mission without extraneous comment . 
Yes , you have managed it to admiration , said Philip Borsdale , when the knight had made an end . 
Borsdale leaned back and laughed , purringly , for the outcome of this affair of the Cardinal and the Wax Image meant much to him from a pecuniary standpoint . 
Yet it is odd a prince of any church which has done so much toward the discomfiture of sorcery should have entertained such ideas . 
It is also odd to note the series of coincidences which appears to have attended this Alioneri's practises . 
I noticed that , said Sir Thomas . 
After a while he said You think , then , that they must have been coincidences ? MUST is a word which intelligent people do not outwear by too constant usage . 
I am not committing myself , mark you , Sir Thomas , to any statement whatever , beyond the observation that these coincidences were noticeable . 
I add , with superficial irrelevance , that Dr . 
I am not surprised , said Sir Thomas , drily . 
No possible antics would astonish me on the part of that unvenerable madman . 
Such was never my ideal of absolute decorum in the pulpit . 
The pig he whimsically called the pig Corinna , sir , in honor of that imaginary mistress to whom he addressed so many verses why , the pig also has dis appeared . 
Oh , but of course that at least is simply a coincidence . 
I grant you it was an uncanny beast . 
And I grant you that Dr . 
Herrick was a dubious ornament to his calling . 
Of that I am doubly certain to day , said Borsdale , and he waved his hand comprehensively , in view of the state in which you see he left this room . 
Yes , he was quietly writing here at eleven o'clock last night when old Prudence Baldwin , his housekeeper , last saw him . 
Herrick appears to have diverted himself by taking away the mats and chalking geometrical designs upon the floor , as well as by burning some sort of incense in this brasier . 
But such avocations , Philip , are not necessarily indicative of sanity . 
No , it is not , upon the whole , an inevitable manner for an elderly parson to while away an evening . 
Oh , but that was only a part , sir . 
He also left the clothes he was wearing in a rather peculiarly constructed heap , as you can see . 
Among them , by the way , I found this flattened and corroded bullet . 
I think I understand it now . 
Thus Borsdale , as he composedly smoked his churchwarden . 
In short , the whole affair is as mysterious Here Sir Thomas raised his hand . 
I detect a vista of curious perils such as infinitely outshines verbal brilliancy . 
You need my aid in some insane attempt . 
He said So ! you have been retained ? I have been asked to help him . 
Of course I did not know of what he meant to try . 
Herrick left this manuscript , as well as certain instructions for me . 
The last are well ! unusual . 
Ah , yes ! You hearten me . 
I have long had my suspicions as to this Herrick , though . 
And what are we to do ? I really cannot inform you , sir . 
I doubt if I could explain in any workaday English even what we will attempt to do , said Philip Borsdale . 
I do say this You believe the business which we have settled , involv ing as it does the lives of thousands of men and women , to be of importance . 
I swear to you that , as set against what we will essay , all we have done is trivial . 
As pitted against the business we will attempt to night , our previous achievements are suggestive of the evolutions of two sand fleas beside the ocean . 
The prize at which this adventure aims is so stupendous that I cannot name it . 
Oh , but you must , Philip . 
I am no more afraid of the local constabulary than I am of the local notions as to what respectability entails . 
I may confess , however , that I am afraid of wagering against unknown odds . 
Then he said , with deliberation Dr . 
Herrick's was , when you come to think of it , an unusual life . 
He is or perhaps I ought to say he was upward of eighty three . 
He has lived here for over a half century , and during that time he has never attempted to make either a friend or an enemy . 
He was indifferent , let us say . 
Herrick was , somehow , like talking to a man in a fog . 
They are mere figments of the poet , pegs to hang rhymes on . 
And yet let us go on . 
I know that Herrick never willingly so much as spoke with a woman . 
Not in so far as we know , I said . 
Then , too , he wrote such dainty , merry poems about the fairies . 
Yes , it was all of fifty years ago that Dr . 
Herrick first appeared in print with his Description of the King and Queen of the Fairies . 
The thought seems always to have haunted him . 
The knight's face changed , a little by a little . 
I have long been an amateur of the curious , he said , strangely quiet . 
I do not think that anything you may say will surprise me inordinately . 
He had found in every country in the world tra ditions of a race who were human yet more than human . 
That is the most exact fashion in which I can express his beginnings . 
On every side he found the notion of a race who can impinge on mortal life and partake of it but always without exercising the last reach of their endowments . 
Oh , the tradition exists everywhere , whether you call these occasional inter lopers fauns , fairies , gnomes , ondines , incubi , or demons . 
You follow me , of course , sir ? to the triangles and circles and hexagons this cube would seem to be an ordinary square . 
It is very certain these fields exist and the question of their extent I take to be both interesting and important . 
Then Sir Thomas said Like any other rational man , I have occasionally thought of this endeavor at which you hint . 
We exist you and I and all the others in what we glibly call the universe . 
There are no grounds for believing that this particular method of communication is adequate , or even that the agents which produce it are veracious . 
Meanwhile , we are in touch with what exists through our five senses only . 
It may be that they lie to us . 
There is , at least , no reason for assuming them to be infallible . 
But reflection plows a deeper furrow , Sir Thomas . 
Even in the exercise of any one of these five senses it is certain that we are excelled by what we vainglo riously call the lower forms of life . 
You saw that Browne was troubled . 
Nothing will come of this . 
I do not touch upon the desirability of conquering those fields at which we dare only to hint . 
No , I am not afraid . 
I dare assist you in doing anything Dr . 
Herrick asks , because I know that nothing will come of such endeavors . 
Herrick , as many other men have done , thought otherwise . 
I , too , will venture a quotation . 
Many years ago that lamentation was familiar . 
What wonder , then , that Dr . 
Herrick should have dared to repeat it yesterday ? And what wonder if he tried to free the prisoner ? Such freedom is forbidden , Sir Thomas stubbornly replied . 
I have long known that Herrick was formerly in correspondence with John Heydon , and Robert Flood , and others of the Illuminated , as they call themselves . 
There are many of this sect in England , as we all know and we hear much silly chatter of Elixirs and Philosopher's Stones in connection with them . 
But I happen to know somewhat of their real aims and tenets . 
I do not care to know any more than I do . 
They tell me the curtain may be lifted . 
Whether this be true or no , I must for my own sanity's sake insist it can never be lifted . 
But what if it were not forbidden ? For Dr . 
Her rick asserts he has already demonstrated that . 
Sir Thomas interrupted , with odd quickness . 
True , we must bear it in mind the man never married Did he , by any chance , possess a crystal of Venice glass three inches square ? And Borsdale gaped . 
I found it with his manu script . 
But he said nothing of it . 
How could you guess ? Sir Thomas reflectively scraped the edge of the glass with his finger nail . 
You would be none the happier for knowing , Philip . 
Yes , that is a blood stain here . 
And Herrick , so far as we know , had never in his life loved any woman . 
He is the only poet in history who never demonstrably loved any woman . 
I think you had better read me his manuscript , Philip . 
It would even explain Corinna and Herrick's rapt living without any human ties . 
I am sorry , Philip , that you are not familiar with ancient Greek life . 
I think I could explain much which now seems mysterious yes , and the daffodils , also , that Herrick wrote of so constantly . 
But it is better not to talk of these sinister delusions of heathenry . 
For my reward would be to have you think me mad . 
I prefer to iterate the verdict of all logical people , and formally to register my opinion that Robert Herrick was indisputably a lunatic . 
Borsdale did not seem perturbed . 
I think the rec ord of his experiments is true , in any event . 
At least , he tells us that the boy returned . 
I fervently believe that in this matter Dr . 
Herrick was capable of any crime except falsehood . 
Oh , no I depend on it , he also will return . 
The poet writes as if he were instructing a dame's school as to the advisability of becoming omnipotent . 
Well , well ! I am not defending Dr . 
Herrick in anything save his desire to know the truth . 
In this respect at least , he has proven himself to be both admirable and fearless . 
And at worst , he only strives to do what Jacob did at Peniel , said Philip Borsdale , lightly . 
The patriarch , as I recall , was blessed for acting as he did . 
The legend is not irrelevant , I think . 
They passed into the adjoining room . 
Sir Thomas Browne seemed to recognize this curious design , and gave an ominous nod . 
Borsdale said You see Dr . 
And much of what we are about to do is merely symbolical , of course . 
They do not seem to understand that there could never have been any conceivable need of inventing a periphrasis for what did not exist . 
Sir Thomas Browne regarded Borsdale for a while intently . 
Then the knight gave his habitual shrugging gesture . 
You are braver than I , Philip , because you are more ignorant than I. I have been too long an amateur of the curious . 
Sometimes in over credulous moments I have almost believed that in sober verity there are reasoning beings who are not human beings that for their own dark purposes seek union with us . 
Indeed , I went into Pomerania once to talk with John Dietrick of Ramdin . 
He told me one of those relations whose truth we dread , a tale which I did not dare , I tell you candidly , even to discuss in my Vulgar Errors . 
Then there is Helgi Thorison's history , and that of Leonard of Basle also . 
Oh , there are more recorded stories of this nature than you dream of , Philip . 
But you will aid me ? Borsdale said . 
Yes , I will aid you , Philip , for in Herrick's case I take it that the mischief is consummated already and we , I think , risk nothing worse than death . 
But you will need another knife a little later a knife that will be clean . 
Borsdale withdrew , and pres ently returned with a bone handled knife . 
And then he made a light . 
Are you quite ready , sir ? Sir Thomas Browne , that aging amateur of the curious , could not resist a laugh . 
And then they sat about proceedings of which , for obvious reasons , the details are best left unrecorded . 
It was not an unconscionable while before they seemed to be aware of unusual phenomena . 
But as Sir Thomas always pointed out , in subsequent discussions , these were quite possibly the fruitage of excited imag ination . 
Now , Philip ! now , give me the knife ! cried Sir Thomas Browne . 
He knew for the first time , despite many previous mischancy happenings , what real terror was . 
The room was thick with blinding smoke by this , so that Borsdale could see nothing save his co partner in this adventure . 
Both men were shaken by what had occurred before . 
This gesture stirred the smoke so that Borsdale could see the knife quiver and fall , and note the tiny triangle of unbared plaster it had cut in the painted woman's breast . 
Within the same instant he had perceived a naked man who staggered . 
Iz adu kronyeshnago ! The intruder's thin , shrill wail was that of a frightened child . 
The man strode forward , choked , seemed to grope his way . 
His face was not good to look at . 
Horror gripped and tore at every member of the cadaverous old body , as a high wind tugs at a flag . 
The two witnesses of Herrick's agony did not stir during the instant wherein the frenzied man stooped , moving stiffly like an ill made toy , and took up the knife . 
Oh , yes , I knew what he was about to do , said Sir Thomas Browne afterward , in his quiet fashion . 
I did not try to stop him . 
If Herrick had been my dearest friend , I would not have interfered . 
I had seen his face , you comprehend . 
Yes , it was kinder to let him die . 
It was curious , though , as he stood there hacking his chest , how at each stab he deliberately twisted the knife . 
I suppose the pain distracted his mind from what he was remembering . 
I should have forewarned Borsdale of this possible outcome at the very first , I suppose . 
But , then , which one of us is always wise ? So this adventure came to nothing . 
For its significance , if any , hinged upon Robert Herrick's sanity , which was at best a disputable quantity . 
Grant him insane , and the whole business , as Sir Thomas was at large pains to point out , dwindles at once into the irresponsible vagaries of a madman . 
And all the while , for what we know , he had been hiding somewhere in the house . 
Oh , yes , there is no doubt he was insane , said Sir Thomas , comfortably . 
Faith ! what he moaned was gibberish , of course Oddly enough , his words were intelligible . 
They meant in Russian Out of the lowest hell . 
But , why , in God's name , Russian ? I am sure I do not know , Sir Thomas replied and he did not appear at all to regret his ignorance . 
But Borsdale meditated , disappointedly . 
Oh , yes , the outcome is ambiguous , Sir Thomas , in every way . 
Now I , was Sir Thomas's verdict , prefer to take it as a warning that insane people ought to be re strained . 
Ah , well , insanity is only one of the many forms of being abnormal . 
Yes , I think it proves that all abnormal people ought to be restrained . 
Perhaps it proves that they are very potently restrained , said Philip Borsdale , perversely . 
Perversely , Sir Thomas always steadfastly protested , because he said that to believe in Herrick's sanity was not conducive to your own . 
So Sir Thomas shrugged , and went toward the open window . 
Without the road was a dazzling gray under the noon sun , for the sky was cloudless . 
The ordered trees were rustling pleasantly , very brave in their autumnal liveries . 
Under a maple across the way some seven laborers were joking lazily as they ate their dinner . 
A wagon lumbered by , the driver whistling . 
In front of the house a woman had stopped to rearrange the pink cap of the baby she was carrying . 
The child had just reached up fat and uncertain little arms to kiss her . 
Nothing that Browne saw was out of ordinary , kindly human life . 
Well , after all , said Sir Thomas , upon a sudden , for one , I think it is an endurable world , just as it stands . 
And Borsdale looked up from a letter he had been reading . 
It was from a woman who has no concern with this tale , and its contents were of no importance to any one save Borsdale . 
It makes it doubly odd that Dr . 
Herrick should have chosen always to Write of groves , and twilights , and to sing The court of Mab , and of the Fairy King , And write of Hell . 
Sir Thomas touched his arm , protestingly . 
Ah , but you have forgotten what follows , Philip I sing , and ever shall , Of Heaven , and hope to have it after all . 
Well ! I cry Amen , said Borsdale . 
But I wish I could forget the old man's face . 
Oh , and I also , Sir Thomas said . 
He then gave himself up to all sorts of extravagances and to the wildest frolics that a wanton wit could devise . 
I the Plain Dealer am to act to day . 
Prologue to The Plain Dealer . 
She had in consequence a host of admirers , pre eminent among whom was young Robert Minifie of Milanor . 
Mr. Wycherley , a noted stickler for etiquette , decorously made bold to question Mr. Minifie's taste in a dispute concerning waistcoats . 
A duel was decorously arranged and these two met upon the narrow beach of Teviot Bay . 
Theirs was a spirited encounter , lasting for ten energetic minutes . 
More lately Wycherley walked in the direction of Ouseley Manor , whistling Love's a Toy . 
Honor was satisfied , and , happily , as he reflected , at no expense of life . 
He was a kindly hearted fop , and more than once had killed his man with perfectly sincere regret . 
Your humble servant , Mr. Swashbuckler , she said and then But oh ! you have not hurt the lad ? she demanded , with a tincture of anxiety . 
Nay , after a short but brilliant engagement , Wycherley returned , Mr. Minifie was very harmlessly perforated and in consequence I look to be married on Thursday , after all . 
Let me die but Cupid never meets with anything save inhospitality in this gross world ! cried Lady Drogheda . 
There were many trees at hand so huge as to necessitate a considerable detour . 
Well , I stand to day indebted to him for an advance of L and am no more afraid of bailiffs . 
We have performed a very creditable stroke of business and the day after to morrow you will have fairly earned your L for arranging the marriage . 
Faith , and in earnest of this , I already begin to view you through appropriate lenses as undoubtedly the most desirable aunt in the universe . 
Nor was there any unconscionable stretching of the phrase . 
The big staghound lounged beside her . 
She pleased the eye , at least , did this heartless , merry and selfish Olivia , whom Wycherley had so ruthlessly depicted in his Plain Dealer . 
To the last detail Wycherley found her , as he phrased it , mignonne et piquante , and he told her so . 
Sweet chuck , beat not the bones of the buried when he breathed he was a likely lad , Mr. Wycherley declared , with signal gravity . 
Oh , la , la ! she flouted him . 
Well , in any event you were the first gentleman in England to wear a neckcloth of Flanders lace . 
And you were the first person of quality to eat cheesecakes in Spring Garden , he not half so mirth fully retorted . 
So we have not entirely failed in life , it may be , after all . 
Come , now , a tangible bowl of pottage , piping hot , is not to be despised in such a hazardous world as ours is . 
She was silent for a lengthy while . 
Lord , Lord , how musty all that brave , sweet nonsense seems ! she said , and almost sighed . 
Eh , well ! le vin est tire , et il faut le boire . 
My adorable aunt ! Let us put it a thought less dumpishly and render thanks because our pottage smokes upon the table , and we are blessed with ex cellent appetites . 
Lord Remon came this afternoon , said Lady Drogheda , and with averted eyes . 
I do not approve of Remon , he announced . 
Nay , madam , even a Siren ought to spare her kin and show some mercy toward the more stagnant blooded fish . 
He is very wealthy , and I am lamentably poor . 
One must not seek noon at fourteen o'clock or clamor for better bread than was ever made from wheat . 
Mr. Wycherley laughed , after a pregnant silence . 
By heavens , madam , you are in the right ! So I shall walk no more in Figgis Wood , for its old magic breeds too many day dreams . 
Besides , we have been serious for half an hour . 
Or let us count the leaves upon this tree and afterward I will enumerate my reasons for believing yonder crescent moon to be the paring of the Angel Gabriel's left thumb nail . 
She was a woman of eloquent silences when there was any need of them and thus the fop and the coquette traversed the remainder of that solemn wood without any further speech . 
Modish people would have esteemed them unwontedly glum . 
But Wycherley knew the tide filled Teviot Bay and wondering fishes were at liberty to muzzle the toys , by this , and merely shrugged at his mishap , midcourse in toilet . 
There was never any night in June which nature planned the more adroitly . 
Soft and warm and windless , lit by a vainglorious moon and every star that ever shone , the beauty of this world caressed and heartened its beholder like a gallant music . 
He was chuckling when he came to the open window . 
Within a woman was singing , to the tinkling accompaniment of a spinet , for the delectation of Lord Remon . 
She was not uncomely , and the hard , lean , stingy countenance of the attendant nobleman was almost genial . 
She looked up into Remon's face and , laughing with such bright and elfin mirth as never any other woman showed , thought Wycherley , she broke into another song . 
She would have spared Mr. Wycherley that had she but known him to be within earshot . 
Men , even beaux , are strangely constituted and so it needed only this the sudden stark brute jealousy of one male animal for another . 
He got but little rest this night . 
There were too many plaintive memories which tediously plucked him back , with feeble and innumerable hands , as often as he trod upon the threshold of sleep . 
Wycherley did not see her all that morning , for Lady Drogheda was fatigued , or so a lackey informed him , and as yet kept her chamber . 
His Araminta he found deplorably sullen . 
, when Mr. Wycherley implored Lady Drogheda to walk with him to Teviot Bay , on the off chance of recovering his sleeve links . 
And there they did find one of the trinkets , but the tide had swept away the other , or else the sand had buried it . 
So they rested there upon the rocks , after an unavailing search , and talked of many trifles , amid surroundings oddly incongruous . 
The bay opens due west and its white barriers were now developing a violet tinge , for this was on a sullen afternoon , and the sea was ruffled by spiteful gusts . 
And thus ends the last day of our bachelorhood ! said Lady Drogheda , upon a sudden . 
And you wrote them when you were just a boy ! Ah , yes , you might have been our English Moliere , my dear . 
And , instead , you have elected to become an authority upon cravats and waistcoats . 
Eh , madam he smiled there was a time when I too was foolishly intent to divert the leisure hours of posterity . 
But reflection assured me that posterity had , thus far , done very little to place me under that or any other obligation . 
Ah , no ! Youth , health and though I say it a modicum of intelligence are loaned to most of us for a while , and for a terribly brief while . 
They are but loans , and Time is waiting greedily to snatch them from us . 
In consequence , I chose a wiser and devouter course . 
This statement Lady Drogheda afforded the com mentary of a grimace . 
Yet his watch , on consultation , recorded only five o'clock and presently Mr. Wycherley laughed , not very loudly . 
The two had risen , and her face was a tiny snowdrift where every touch of rouge and grease pencils showed crudely . 
Well ! the tide is buffeting at either side of Carnrick within the hour this place will be submerged and , in a phrase , we are as dead as Hannibal or Hector . 
She said , very quiet Could you not gain the mainland if you stripped and swam for it ? Why , possibly , the beau conceded . 
Meanwhile you would have drowned . 
Faith , we had as well make the best of it . 
did not shake at all , nor did her delicious piping voice shake either . 
I bid you save yourself . 
For he had spied a ledge , not inaccessible , some four feet higher than the sands , and it offered them at least a respite . 
And within the moment they had secured this niggardly concession , intent to die , as Wycherley observed , like hurt mice upon a pantry shelf . 
These arbiters of social London did not speak at all and the bleak waters crowded toward them as in a fretful dispute of precedence . 
Then the woman said Last night Lord Remon asked me to marry him , and I declined the honor . 
For this place is too like Bessington and , I think , the past month has changed everything I thought you had forgotten Bessington , he said , long , long ago . 
Life is a masquerade where Death , it would appear , is master of the ceremonies . 
Now he sounds his whistle and we who went about the world so long as harlequins must unmask , and for all time put aside our abhorrence of the disheveled . 
For in sober verity , this is Death who comes , Olivia , though I had thought that at his advent one would be afraid . 
Yet apprehension of this gross and unavoidable adventure , so soon to be endured , thrilled him , and none too lightly . 
It seemed unfair that death should draw near thus sensibly , with never a twinge or ache to herald its arrival . 
Why , there were fifty years of life in this fine , nimble body but for any contretemps like that of the deplorable present ! Thus his meditations stumbled . 
The stage is set for a Homeric death scene , and we two profane an over ambitious background . 
But here are only you and I and the master of all ceremony . 
And you were the first person of quality to eat cheese cakes in Spring Garden . 
There you have our epitaphs , if we in truth have earned an epitaph who have not ever lived . 
And I have had practice , let me tell you . 
! Then he shook his head and smiled . 
But candor is not a la mode . 
See , now , to what outmoded and bucolic frenzies nature brings even us at last . 
It was a perturbed Minifie who broke the silence . 
This is very awkward , he said , because Araminta and I are eloping . 
We mean to be married this same night at Milanor . 
And deuce take it , Mr. Wycherley ! I can't leave you there to drown , any more than in the circumstances I can ask you to make one of the party . 
Mr. Wycherley , said his companion , with far more asperity , the vanity and obduracy of a cruel father have forced me to the adoption of this desperate measure . 
Toward yourself I entertain no ill feeling , nor indeed any sentiment at all except the most profound contempt . 
Miss Vining , I had hitherto admired you , the beau replied , with fervor , but now esteem is changed to adoration . 
Then he turned to his Olivia . 
Madam , you will pardon the awkward but unavoidable publicity of my proceeding . 
I am a ruined man . 
I owe your brother in law some L , and , oddly enough , I mean to pay him . 
I must sell Jephcot and Skene Minor , but while life lasts I shall keep Bessington and all its memories . 
Meanwhile there is a clergyman waiting at Milanor . 
So marry me to night , Olivia and we will go back to Bessington to morrow . 
To Bessington ! she said . 
It was as though she spoke of something very sacred . 
Then very mu sically Lady Drogheda laughed , and to the eye she was all flippancy . 
And it seemed to Mr. Wycherley that he had gone divinely mad . 
Don't lie to me , Olivia . 
You are thinking there are yet a host of heiresses who would be glad to be a famous beau's wife at however dear a cost . 
But don't lie to me . 
Don't even try to seem the airy and bedizened woman I have known so long . 
All that is over now . 
Death tapped us on the shoulder , and , if only for a moment , the masks were dropped . 
And life is changed now , oh , everything is changed ! Then , come , my dear ! let us be wise and very honest . 
She irresolutely said I cannot . 
Matters are al tered now . 
It would be madness It would undoubtedly be madness , Mr. Wycherley assented . 
Then alone I wish to do praiseworthy things , to be all which the boy we know of should have grown to . 
I want you ! and all my life I have wanted you . 
Boy , boy ! she answered , and her fine hands had come to Wycherley , as white birds flutter homeward . 
I suppose it would be lacking in reverence to keep a clergyman waiting longer than was absolutely necessary ? she hazarded . 
A BROWN WOMAN A critical age called for symmetry , and exquisite finish had to be studied as much as nobility of thought . 
POPE aimed to take first place as a writer of polished verse . 
Any knowledge he gained of the world , or any suggestion that came to him from his intercourse with society , was utilized to accomplish his main purpose . 
To put his thoughts into choice language was not enough . 
Each idea had to be put in its neatest and most epigrammatic form . 
The muse but served to ease some friend , not wife , To help me through this long disease , my life . 
A BROWN WOMAN But I must be hurrying home now , the girl said , for it is high time I were back in the hayfields . 
Fair shepherdess , he implored , for heaven's sake , let us not cut short the pastorelle thus abruptly . 
And what manner of beast may that be , pray ? 'Tis a conventional form of verse , my dear , which we at present strikingly illustrate . 
He naturally falls in love with her , and they say all manner of fine things to each other . 
She considered him for a while before speaking . 
It thrilled him to see the odd tenderness that was in her face . 
I wish I could make you understand how your coming has changed everything . 
You can tell me some other time , the girl gaily declared , and was about to leave him . 
His hand detained her very gently . 
Faith , but I fear not , for already my old hallucinations seem to me incredible . 
Why , yesterday I thought it the most desirable of human lots to be a great poet the gen tleman laughed in self mockery . 
I labored every day toward becoming one . 
I lived among books , esteemed that I was doing something of genuine importance as I gravely tinkered with alliteration and metaphor and antithesis and judicious paraphrases of the ancients . 
I put up with life solely because it afforded material for versification and , in reality , believed the destruction of Troy was providentially ordained lest Homer lack subject matter for an epic . 
And as for loving , I thought people fell in love in order to exchange witty rhymes . 
His hand detained her , very gently . 
Indeed , it seemed to him he could never tire of noting her excellencies . 
Perhaps it was that splendid light poise of her head he chiefly loved he thought so at least , just now . 
Perhaps it was her bright kind eyes , which seemed to mirror the tranquillity of forests . 
You gentry are always talking of love , she mar veled . 
Well , you are beautiful , and they have eyes as keen as mine . 
And I do not blame you , my dear , for believing my designs to be no more commendable than theirs no , not at all . 
But his mood was spoiled , and his tetchy vanity hurt , by the thought of stout well set fellows having wooed this girl and he permitted her to go without protest . 
Yet he sat alone for a while upon the fallen tree trunk , humming a contented little tune . 
Never in his life had he been happier . 
There would be no trouble in arranging with her father for their marriage , most certainly and he meant to attend to that matter this very morning , and within ten minutes . 
So Mr. Alexander Pope was meanwhile arranging in his mind a suitable wording for his declaration of marital aspirations . 
Thus John Gay found him presently and roused him from phrase spinning . 
And what shall we do this morning , Alexander ? Gay was always demanding , like a spoiled child , to be amused . 
Pope told him what his own plans were , speaking quite simply , but with his countenance radiant . 
Gay took off his hat and wiped his forehead , for the day was warm . 
He did not say anything at all . 
Well ? Mr. Pope asked , after a pause . 
I had never thought that you would marry , he said . 
And why , hang it , Alexander ! to grow enamored of a milkmaid is well enough for the hero of a poem , but in a poet it hints at injudicious composition . 
Mr. Pope gesticulated with thin hands and seemed upon the verge of eloquence . 
Then he spoke unan swerably . 
But I love her , he said . 
John Gay's reply was a subdued whistle . 
He , in common with the other guests of Lord Harcourt , at Nuneham Courtney , had wondered what would be the outcome of Mr. Alexander Pope's intimacy with Sarah Drew . 
A month earlier the poet had sprained his ankle upon Amshot Heath , and this young woman had found him lying there , entirely helpless , as she returned from her evening milking . 
Being hale of person , she had managed to get the little hunchback to her home unaided . 
And since then Pope had often been seen with her . 
This much was common knowledge . 
The luxury was too costly . 
Now , after another pause , Pope said , I must be going now . 
He thereby voiced a commentary patently uncalled for , as Mr. Pope afterward reflected . 
Mr. Pope was then treading toward the home of old Frederick Drew . 
It was a gray morning in late July . 
I love her , Pope had said . 
The fact was unde niable yet an expression of it necessarily halts . 
Such persons may hope to win a posthumous esteem in the library , but it is at the bleak cost of making life a wistful transaction with foreigners . 
I love her , Pope had said . 
Verse making is at best only the affair of idle men who write in their closets and of idle men who read there . 
And as for him who polishes phrases , whatever be his fate in poetry , it is ten to one but he must give up all the reasonable aims of life for it . 
No , he would have no more of loneliness . 
Hence forward Alexander Pope would be human like the others . 
To write perfectly was much but it was not everything . 
Living was capable of furnishing even more than the raw material of a couplet . 
It might , for instance , yield content . 
No you would be at one with all other fat witted people , and there was no greater blessing conceivable . 
Pope muttered , and produced his notebook , and wrote tentatively . 
Is not to act or think beyond mankind No powers of body or of soul to share But what his nature and his state can bear . 
His state ! yes , undeniably , two sibilants collided here . 
His wit ? no , that would be flat footed awkwardness in the management of your vowel sounds the lengthened a was almost requisite . 
The dwarf gave a hard , wringing motion of his hands . 
A gentleman does not incommode the public by obtruding the ugliness of a personal wound . 
Do I intrude ? he queried . 
Ah , well ! I also have dwelt in Arcadia . 
It was bitter to comprehend that he had never done so . 
These were not subtle persons . 
Pope had the truth from them within ten minutes . 
They loved each other but John Hughes was penniless , and old Frederick Drew was , in consequence , obdurate . 
And , besides , he thinks you mean to marry her ! said John Hughes . 
As concerns yourself , my good fellow , the case is somewhat different . 
I think that the denouement need not baffle our imaginations . 
The dwarf went toward Sarah Drew . 
The chary sunlight had found the gold in her hair , and its glint was brightly visible to him . 
His thin long fingers touched her capable hand . 
It was a sort of caress half timid . 
My dear , I owe my life to you . 
My body is at most a flimsy abortion such as a night's exposure would have made more tranquil than it is just now . 
I am not lovable , my dear . 
I am only a hunchback , as you can see . 
My aspirations and my sickly imaginings merit only the derision of a candid clean souled being such as you are . 
His finger tips touched the back of her hand again . 
I think there was never a maker of enduring verse who did not at one period or another long to exchange an assured immortality for a sturdier pair of shoulders . 
I think I think that I am prone to speak at random , Pope said , with his half drowsy smile . 
Yet , none the less , an honest man , as our kinsmen in Adam average , is bound to pay his equitable debts . 
She said , I do not understand . 
I have perpetrated certain jingles , Pope returned . 
I had not comprehended until to day they are the only children I shall leave behind me . 
Eh , and what would you make of them , my dear , could ingenuity contrive a torture dire enough to force you into read ing them ! . 
Misguided people have paid me for contriving these jingles . 
So that I have money enough to buy you from your father just as I would purchase one of his heifers . 
Yes , at the very least I have money , and I have earned it . 
I will send your big thewed adorer I believe that Hughes is the name ? L of it this afternoon . 
That sum , I gather , will be sufficient to remove your father's objection to your marriage with Mr. Hughes . 
Pope could not but admire himself tremendously . 
Moreover , in such matters no woman is blind . 
Tears came into Sarah's huge brown eyes . 
This tenderhearted girl was not thinking of John Hughes now . 
Pope noted the fact with the pettiest exultation . 
Oh , you you are good . 
Sarah Drew spoke as with difficulty . 
No adjective , my dear , was ever applied with less discrimination . 
It is merely that you have rendered no inconsiderable service to posterity , and merit a reward . 
Oh , and indeed , indeed , I was always fond of you The girl sobbed this . 
My dear , therein you have signally honored me . 
Oh , but we have no words to thank you , sir ! Thus Hughes began . 
Then don't attempt it , my good fellow . 
For phrase spinning , as I can assure you , is the most profitless of all pursuits . 
Whereupon Pope bowed low , wheeled , walked away . 
Yes , he was wounded past sufferance it seemed to him he must die of it . 
Life was a farce , and Destiny an overseer who hiccoughed mandates . 
For a storm was coming on , and the first big drops of it were splattering the terrace when Mr. Pope en tered Lord Harcourt's mansion . 
Pope went straight to his own rooms . 
As he came in there was a vivid flash of lightning , followed instantaneously by a crashing , splitting noise , like that of universes ripped asunder . 
He did not honor the high uproar with attention . 
This dwarf was not afraid of anything except the commission of an error in taste . 
Then , too , there were letters for him , laid ready on the writing table . 
Nothing of much importance he found there . 
Tindal , after forging his will . 
The storm made the room dark and reading difficult . 
Still , this was an even more amusing letter , from the all powerful Duchess of Marlborough . 
For the hag , as he reflected , very greatly needed to be taught that in this world there was at least one person who did not quail before her tantrums . 
There would be , moreover , even an elementary justice in thus robbing her who had robbed England at large . 
And , besides , her name was Sarah . 
Pope lighted four candles and set them before the long French mirror . 
He stood appraising his many curious deformities while the storm raged . 
He stood sidelong , peering over his left shoulder , in order to see the outline of his crooked back . 
Nowhere in England , he reflected , was there a person more pitiable and more repellent outwardly . 
And , oh , it would be droll , Pope said , aloud , if our exteriors were ever altogether parodies . 
But time keeps a diary in our faces , and writes a monstrously plain hand . 
I begin to think that Dennis was right . 
Make answer , you who have dared to imagine that a goddess was ever drawn to descend into womanhood except by kisses , brawn and a clean heart . 
Another peal of thunder bellowed . 
The storm was growing furious . 
Yet I have had a marvelous dream . 
I must go on in the old round . 
And Sarah Drew has declined an alliance such as this in favor of a fresh colored complexion and a pair of straight shoulders ! Pope thought a while . 
And a clean heart ! She bargained royally , giving love for nothing less than love . 
He would forfeit eternity to save her a toothache . 
And , chief of all , she can make this robust baby happy , and she alone can make him happy . 
And so , she gives , gives royally she gives , God bless her ! Rain , sullen rain , was battering the window . 
And so she chose chose brawn and a clean heart . 
The dwarf turned , staggered , fell upon his bed . 
God , make a man of me , make me a good brave man . 
I loved her oh , such as I am , You know that I loved her ! You know that I desire her happiness above all things . 
Ah , no , for You know that I do not at bottom . 
I want to hurt , to wound all living creatures , because they know how to be happy , and I do not know how . 
It would be too curious to anatomize the writhings of his proud little spirit . 
Now some one tapped upon the door . 
He was bidden to enter , and , complying , found Mr. Pope yawning over the latest of Tonson's publications . 
Gay's face was singularly portentous . 
My friend , Gay blurted out , I bring news which will horrify you . 
Believe me , I would never have mustered the pluck to bring it did I not love you . 
I cannot let you hear it first in public and unprepared , as , otherwise , you would have to do . 
The other poet evinced an awkward comminglement of consternation and pity . 
It appears that when this storm arose why , Mistress Drew was with a young man of the neighborhood a John Hewet Gay was speaking with unaccustomed rapidity . 
Hughes , I think , Pope interrupted , equably . 
Perhaps I am not sure . 
They sought shelter under a haycock . 
This pallid shaken wisp was not in appearance the great Mr. Pope whose ingenuity had enabled Homeric warriors to excel in the genteel . 
They first saw a little smoke . 
They found this Hughes with one arm about the neck of Mistress Drew , and the other held over her face , as if to screen her from the lightning . 
They were both and here Gay hesitated . 
They were both dead , he amended . 
Nakedness is of necessity uncouth , he held , whether it be the body or the soul that is unveiled . 
Mr. Pope went toward a window which he opened , and he stood thus looking out for a brief while . 
So she is dead , he said . 
Hers was a lovely happy life , but it was sterile . 
Already nothing remains of her but dead flesh which must be huddled out of sight . 
I shall not perish thus entirely , I believe . 
Indeed , I am not even sure of that much . 
I print , and print , and print . 
And when I collect my verses into books , I am altogether uncertain whether to took upon myself as a man building a monument , or burying the dead . 
It sometimes seems to me that each publication is but a solemn funeral of many wasted years . 
For I have given all to the verse making . 
He made an end of speaking , still peering out of the window with considerate narrowed eyes . 
In the beech tree opposite a wren was raising optimistic outcry . 
The sun had won his way through a black bellied shred of cloud upon the terrace below , a dripping Venus and a Perseus were glistening as with white fire . 
I think the storm is over , Mr. Pope remarked . 
It is strange how violent are these convulsions of nature . 
But nature is a treacherous blowsy jade , who respects nobody . 
A gentleman can but shrug under her onslaughts , and henceforward civilly avoid them . 
It is a consolation to reflect that they pass quickly . 
He turned as in defiance . 
Yes , yes ! It hurts . 
And I envy these dead young fools . 
You see , they loved each other , John . 
I left them , not an hour ago , the happiest of living creatures . 
I pretended to have dropped my handkerchief . 
I imagine they were talking of their wedding clothes , for this broad shouldered Hughes was matching poppies and field flowers to her complexion . 
It was a scene out of Theocritus . 
I think Heaven was so well pleased by the tableau that Heaven hastily resumed possession of its enactors in order to prevent any after happenings from belittling that perfect instant . 
Egad , and matrimony might easily have proved an anti climax , Gay considered . 
Yes oh , it is only Love that is blind , and not the lover necessarily . 
I suppose I always knew at the bottom of my heart . 
But as it is , no Eastern queen not Semele herself left earth more nobly Pope broke off short . 
He produced his notebook , which he never went without , and wrote frowningly , with many erasures . 
Hearts so sincere the Almighty saw well pleased , Sent His own lightning and the victims seized . 
Then Pope made a grimace . 
No the analogy is trim enough , but the lines lack fervor . 
It is deplorable how much easier it is to express any emotion other than that of which one is actually conscious . 
Pope had torn the paper half through before he reflected that it would help to fill a printed page . 
He put it in his pocket . 
But , come now , I am writing to Lady Mary this afternoon . 
You know how she loves oddities . 
Mr. Gay had the kindest heart in the universe . 
Yet he , also , had dreamed of the perfected phrase , so worded that to alter a syllable of its wording would be little short of sacrilege . 
Eyes kindling , he took up a pen . 
Yes , yes , I understand . 
Egad , it is an admirable subject . 
Then these two dipped their pens and set about a moving composition , which has to day its proper rating among Mr. Pope's Complete Works . 
Petition to the Duke of Ormskirk . 
PRO HONORIA In the early winter of the Earl of Bute , then Secretary of State , gave vent to an outburst of unaccustomed profanity . 
Mr. Robert Calverley , who represented England at the Court of St . 
Petersburg , had resigned his office without prelude or any word of explanation . 
This infuriated Bute , since his pet scheme was to make peace with Russia and thereby end the Continental War . 
Now all was to do again the minister raged , shrugged , furnished a new emissary with credentials , and marked Calverley's name for punishment . 
He is angrier than I have ever known him to be . 
He swears that with a pen's flourish you have imperiled the well being of England , and raves in the same breath of the preferment he had designed for you . 
For my own part , I shrug and acquiesce , because I am familiar with your pranks . 
I merely venture to counsel that you do not crown the Pelion of abuse , which our statesmen are heaping upon you , with the Ossa of physical as well as political suicide . 
In consequence , I would most earnestly advise Mr. Calverley read no further , but came straightway into England . 
He had not been in England since his elopement , three years before that spring , with the Marquis of Umfraville's betrothed , Lord Radnor's daughter , whom Calverley had married at Calais . 
Mr. Calverley and his wife were presently at Carberry Hill , Lord Ufford's home , where , arriving about moon rise , they found a ball in progress . 
Their advent caused a momentary check to merriment . 
The fiddlers ceased , because Lord Ufford had signaled them . 
The fine guests paused in their stately dance . 
Her husband he embraced , and the two men kissed each other , as was the custom of the age . 
Chatter and laughter rose on every side as pert and merry as the noises of a brook in springtime . 
Why , but no ! you naturally demand a duel , the poet earl returned . 
It is very like you . 
I lament your decision , but I will attempt to arrange the meeting for to morrow morning . 
Lord Ufford smiled and nodded to the musicians . 
He finished the dance to admiration , as this lean dan dified young man did everything assiduous to win each fool's applause , as his own verses scornfully phrase it . 
Then Ufford went about his errand of death and conversed for a long while with Umfraville . 
Afterward Lord Ufford beckoned to Calverley , who shrugged and returned Mr. Erwyn's snuff box , which Calverley had been admiring . 
He followed the earl into a side room opening upon the Venetian Chamber wherein the fete was . 
You informed me which was your duty as a friend of this curmudgeon's boast that he would have me horsewhipped if I dared venture into England . 
You will readily conceive that any gentleman of self respect cannot permit such farcical utterances to be delivered without appending a gladiatorial epilogue . 
I , who have known you all your life ! He paced the room . 
Pleading music tinged the silence almost insensibly . 
Heh , Fate has an imperial taste in humor ! the poet said . 
Robin , we have been more than brothers . 
My lord of Ufford went on There is no question of a duel . 
It is as well to spare you what Lord Um fraville replied to my challenge . 
Let it suffice that we do not get sugar from the snake . 
Besides , the man has his grievance . 
Robin , have you forgot that neck lace you and Pevensey took from Umfraville some three years ago before you went into Russia ? Calverley laughed . 
This masquerade won quick applause . 
Persons of ton guffawed like ploughboys over the discomfiture of an old hunks thus divertingly stripped of his bride , all his betrothal gifts , and of the very clothes he wore . 
Gad , what a jest that was ! This Umfraville comes to marry Honoria . 
We robbed him and his valet of everything in the coach , including their breeches . 
The clothes were thus conveyed to Umfraville's house . 
I think none of us would have relished a joke like that were he the butt of it . 
Now the poet's lean countenance was turned upon young Calverley , and as always , Ufford evoked that nobility in Calverley which follies veiled but had not ever killed . 
Egad , said Robert Calverley I grant you that all this was infamously done . 
Indeed , I will do more , he added , with a flourish . 
For I will apologize to Umfraville , and this very night . 
But Ufford was not disposed to levity . 
Let us come to the point , he sadly said . 
Pevensey returned everything except the necklace which Umfraville had intended to be his bridal gift . 
Pevensey conceded the jest , in fine and denied all knowledge of any necklace . 
It was an age of accommodating morality . 
Calverley sketched a whistle , and showed no other trace of astonishment . 
The fool confided in the spendthrift . 
My dear , I understand . 
In nature Pevensey gave the gems to some nymph of Sadler's Wells or Covent Garden . 
For I was out of England . 
And so he capped his knavery with insolence . 
It is an additional reason why Pevensey should not live to scratch a gray head . 
It is , however , an affront to me that Umfraville should have believed him . 
I doubt if I may overlook that , Horace ? I question if he did believe . 
But , then , what help had he ? This Pevensey is an earl . 
His person as a peer of England is inviolable . 
No statute touches him directly , because he may not be confined except by the King's personal order . 
And it is tolerably notorious that Pevensey is in Lord Bute's pay , and that our Scottish Mortimer , to do him justice , does not permit his spies to be injured . 
Now Mr. Calverley took snuff . 
The music without was now more audible , and it had shifted to a merrier tune . 
Pevensey and I whatever were our motives have committed a robbery . 
Pevensey , as the law runs , is safe . 
I , too , was safe as long as I kept out of England . 
As matters stand , Lord Umfraville intends to press a charge of theft against me . 
And I am in disgrace with Bute , who is quite content to beat offenders with a crooked stick . 
This confluence of two penny accidents is annoying . 
It is worse than you know , my lord of Ufford returned . 
He opened the door which led to the Venetian Chamber . 
A surge of music , of laughter , and of many lights invaded the room wherein they stood . 
D'ye see those persons , just past Umfraville , so inadequately disguised as gentlemen ? They are from Bow Street . 
Lord Umfraville intends to apprehend you here to night . 
He has an eye for the picturesque , drawled Cal verley . 
My tragedy , to do him justice , could not be staged more strikingly . 
Those additional alcoves have improved the room beyond belief . 
I must apologize for not having rendered my compliments a trifle earlier . 
It was in famous enough , in all conscience , to be arrested , but to have half the world of fashion as witnessess of ones discomfiture was perfectly intolerable . 
In consequence , he frowned and rearranged the fall of his shirt frill a whit the more becomingly . 
Yes , for hate sharpens every faculty , the earl went on . 
Even Umfraville understands that you do not fear death . 
So he means to have you tried like any common thief while all your quondam friends sit and snigger . 
And you will be convicted Why , necessarily , since I am not as Pevensey . 
Of course , I must confess I took the necklace . 
And Pevensey must stick to the tale that he knows nothing of any necklace . 
Dear Robin , this means Newgate . 
Accident deals very hardly with us , Robin , for this means Tyburn Hill . 
Yes I suppose it means my death , young Calverley assented . 
Well ! I have feasted with the world and found its viands excellent . 
The banquet ended , I must not grumble with my host because I find his choice of cordials not altogether to my liking . 
Thus speaking , he was aware of nothing save that the fiddlers were now about an air to which he had often danced with his dear wife . 
I have a trick yet left to save our honor , Lord Ufford turned to a table where wine and glasses were set ready . 
Let us drink for the last time to the honor of the Calverleys . 
It is an invitation I may not decorously refuse . 
And yet it may be that I do not understand you ? My lord of Ufford poured wine into two glasses . 
Lord Ufford took a tiny vial from his pocket and emptied its contents into the glass which stood the nearer to Mr. Calverley . 
We dabblers in science are experimenting with it at Gresham College . 
A taste of it means death a painless , quick and honorable death . 
You will have died of a heart seizure . 
Come , Robin , let us drink to the honor of the Calverleys . 
The poet earl paused for a little while . 
Now he was like some seer of supernal things . 
For look you , said Lord Ufford , we come of honorable blood . 
We have our code , and we may not infringe upon it . 
Our code does not invariably square with reason , and I doubt if Scripture would afford a dependable foundation . 
So be it ! We have our code and we may not infringe upon it . 
There have been many Calverleys who did not fear their God , but there was never any one of them who did not fear dishonor . 
I am the head of no less proud a house . 
As such , I counsel you to drink and die within the moment . 
It is not possible a Calverley survive dishonor . 
It is undoubtedly absurd to perish here , like some unreasonable adversary of the Borgias . 
Still I can understand that it is preferable to having fat and greasy fellows squander a shilling for the privilege of perching upon a box while I am being hanged . 
And I think I shall accept your toast You will be avenged , Ufford said , simply . 
My dear , as if I ever questioned that ! Of course , you will kill Pevensey first and Umfraville afterward . 
Only I want to live . 
For I was meant to play a joyous role wholeheartedly in the big comedy of life . 
So many people find the world a dreary residence , Mr. Calverley sighed , that it is really a pity some one of these long faced stolidities cannot die now instead of me . 
For I have found life wonderful throughout . 
The brows of Ufford knit . 
Would you consent to live as a transported felon ? I have much money . 
I need not tell you the last penny is at your disposal . 
It might be possible to bribe . 
Indeed , Lord Bute is all powerful to day and he would perhaps procure a pardon for you at my entreaty . 
He is so kind as to admire my scribblings . 
Or you might live among your fellow convicts somewhere over sea for a while longer . 
I had not thought that such would be your choice Here Ufford shrugged , restrained by courtesy . 
Besides , Lord Bute is greatly angered with you , because you have endangered his Russian alliance . 
I may tell you since it will be public to morrow . 
The Tzaritza Elizabeth , our implacable enemy , died very suddenly three weeks ago . 
Peter of Holstein Gottrop reigns to day in Russia , and I have made terms with him . 
I came to tell Lord Bute the Cossack troops have been recalled from Prussia . 
The war is at an end . 
Young Calverley meditated and gave his customary boyish smile . 
Yes , I discharged my Russian mission after all even after I had formally relinquished it because I was so opportunely aided by the accident of the Tzaritza's death . 
And Bute cares only for results . 
See , Horace , she is dancing with Anchester while I wait here so near to death . 
But Honoria does everything adorably . 
I cannot tell you oh , not even you ! how happy these three years have been with her . 
Eh , well ! the gods are jealous of such happiness . 
You will remember how her mother died ? It appears that Honoria is threatened with a slow consumption , and a death such as her mother's was . 
There was no need to frighten her . 
In nature I resigned my appointment . 
I did not consider England , or my own trivial future , or anything of that sort . 
He gazed for many moments upon the woman whom he loved . 
His speech took on an odd simplicity . 
Oh , yes , I think that in the end Bute would pro cure a pardon for me . 
But not even Bute can override the laws of England . 
I would have to be tried first , and have ballads made concerning me , and be condemned , and so on . 
That would detain Honoria in England , because she is sufficiently misguided to love me . 
I could never persuade her to leave me with my life in peril . 
She could not possibly survive an English winter . 
Here Calverley evinced unbridled mirth . 
The irony of events is magnificent . 
There is probably no question of hanging or even of transportation . 
It is merely certain that if I venture from this room I bring about Honoria's death as incontestably as if I strangled her with these two hands . 
So I choose my own death in preference . 
It will grieve Honoria His voice was not completely steady . 
She will forget me , for she forgets easily , and she will be happy . 
I look to you to see even before you have killed Pevensey that Honoria goes into Italy . 
The earl moistened his lips . 
You are a fool , he said , with a thin voice . 
Ah , no , when did you ever lie ! You do not lie not you ! He waited for a while . 
I dare to lie when the occasion promises . 
I have desired Honoria since the first moment wherein I saw her . 
I may tell you now . 
I think that you do not remember . 
He stood thus for a little , silent . 
Then Ufford began again I planned all this . 
I plotted this with Umfraville . 
I wrote you such a let ter as would inevitably draw you to your death . 
For Honoria would then be freed of you . 
I would condole with her . 
She is readily comforted , impatient of sorrow , incapable of it , I dare say . 
She would have married me . 
And you , said Calverley this thing is you ! A helpless reptile now , said Ufford . 
I have not the power to check Lord Umfraville in his vengeance . 
You must be publicly disgraced , and must , I think , be hanged even now when it will not benefit me at all . 
It may be I shall weep for that some day ! Or else Honoria must die , because an archangel could not persuade her to desert you in your peril . 
For she loves you loves you to the full extent of her merry and shallow nature . 
Oh , I know that , as you will never know it . 
I shall have killed Honoria ! I shall not weep when Honoria dies . 
Harkee , Robin ! they are dancing yonder . 
It is odd to think that I shall never dance again . 
Horace ! the younger man said , like a person of two minds . 
He gave a frantic gesture . 
Oh , I have loved you . 
I have loved nothing as I have loved you . 
And yet you chatter of your passion for Honoria ! Lord Ufford returned , with a snarl . 
I ask what proof is there of this ? Why , that you have surrendered your well being in this world through love of her . 
But I gave what is vital . 
I was an honorable gentleman without any act in all my life for which I had need to blush . 
I loved you as I loved no other being in the universe . 
He spread his hands , which now twitched horribly . 
To day through my desire of her , I am that monstrous thing which you alone know me to be . 
I think I gave up much . 
Pro honoria ! he chuckled . 
The Latin halts , but , none the less , the jest is excellent . 
You have given more than I would dare to give , said Calverley . 
And to no end ! cried Ufford . 
Ah , fate , the devil and that code I mocked are all in league to cheat me ! Said Calverley The man whom I loved most is dead . 
Oh , had the world been searched between the sunrise and the sunsetting there had not been found his equal . 
To day he is quite dead . 
There is only a poor wretch who has been faithless in all things , who has not even served the devil faithfully . 
Why , then , you lackey with a lackey's soul , attend to what I say . 
Can you make any terms with Umfraville ? I can do nothing , Ufford replied . 
You have robbed him as me of what he most desired . 
You have made him the laughing stock of England . 
He does not pardon any more than I would pardon . 
And as God lives and reigns , I do not greatly blame him , said young Calverley . 
This man at least was wronged . 
Concerning you I do not speak , because of a false dream I had once very long ago . 
Yet Umfraville was treated infamously . 
I dare concede what I could not permit another man to say and live , now that I drink a toast which I must drink alone . 
For I drink to the honor of the Calverleys . 
I have not ever lied to any person in this world , and so I may not drink with you . 
Oh , but you drink because you know your death to be the one event which can insure her happiness , cried Ufford . 
We are not much unlike . 
And I dare say it is only an imaginary Honoria we love , after all . 
Yet , look , my fellow Ixion ! for to the eye at least is she not perfect ? The two men gazed for a long while . 
You saw now unmistakably that Light Queen of Elfdom , dead Titania's heir of whom Ufford writes in the fourth Satire . 
There is no other way , her husband said . 
He drank and toasted what was dearest in the world , smiling to think how death came to him in that wine's familiar taste . 
I drink to the most lovely of created ladies ! and to her happiness ! He snapped the stem of the glass and tossed it joy ously aside . 
Assuredly , there is no other way , said Ufford . 
And armored by that knowledge , even I may drink as honorable people do . 
Pro honoria ! Then this man also broke his emptied glass . 
How long have I to live ? said Calverley , and took snuff . 
Why , thirty years , I think , unless you duel too immoderately , replied Lord Ufford , since while you looked at Honoria I changed our glasses . 
No ! no ! a thing done has an end . 
Besides , it is not unworthy of me . 
So go boldly to the Earl of Bute and tell him all . 
You are my cousin and my successor . 
Yes , very soon you , too , will be a peer of England and as safe from molestation as is Lord Pevensey . 
I am the first to tender my congratulations . 
Now I make certain that they are not premature . 
The poet laughed at this moment as a man may laugh in hell . 
His lean face momentarily contorted , and afterward the poet died . 
I am Lord Ufford , said Calverley aloud . 
The person of a peer is inviolable He presently looked downward from rapt gazing at his wife . 
Fresh from this horrible half hour , he faced a fu ture so alluring as by its beauty to intimidate him . 
now even opulence , were the in gredients of a captivating vista . 
Second Prologue to The Rivals . 
As a result , when the parliamentarian followed her into Scotland , in the spring of , people only shrugged . 
Because it proves that misery loves company , was Mr. Fox's observation at Wattier's , hard upon two in the morning . 
Poor Sherry , as an inconsolable widower , must naturally have some one to share his grief . 
He perfectly comprehends that no one will lament the death of his wife more fervently than her successor . 
In consequence , Mr. Sheridan entered the room so quietly that the young man who was employed in turning over the contents of the top bureau drawer was taken unprepared . 
But in the marauder's nature , as far as resolution went , was little lacking . 
Silence ! he ordered , and with the mandate a pistol was leveled upon the rep resentative for the borough of Stafford . 
One cry for help , and you perish like a dog . 
I warn you that I am a desperate man . 
He continued , in his best parliamentary manner , a happy blending of reproach , omniscience and pardon . 
I accordingly make her a declaration . 
I besiege her with the customary artillery of sonnets , bouquets , serenades , bonbons , theater tickets and threats of suicide . 
I fail to understand , remarked the burglar , how all this prolix account of your amours can possibly concern me . 
You are at least somewhat involved in the deplor able climax , Mr. Sheridan returned . 
If ever any lover was thrust into a more ambiguous position , madam , historians have touched on his dilemma with marked reticence . 
He saw and he admired the flush which mounted to his visitor's brow . 
And then , I must concede that appearances are against me , Mr , Sheridan , the beau tiful intruder said . 
And I hasten to protest that my presence in your apartments at this hour is prompted by no unworthy motive . 
I merely came to steal the famous diamond which you brought from London the Honor of Eiran . 
He intends the gem which you are vainly seeking among my haberdashery to be the adornment of his promised bride in the ensuing June . 
A truce to paltering ! Miss Ogle cried . 
That jewel was stolen from the temple at Moorshedabad , by the Earl of Eiran's grandfather , during the confusion necessarily attendant on the glorious battle of Plassy . 
She laid down the pistol , and resumed in milder tones From an age long existence as the left eye of Ganesh it was thus converted into the loot of an invader . 
To restore this diamond to its lawful , although no doubt polygamous and inefficiently attired proprietors is at this date impossible . 
But , oh ! what claim have you to its possession ? Why , none whatever , said the parliamentarian and to contend as much would be the apex of unreason . 
For this diamond belongs , of course , to my cousin the Earl of Eiran As a thief's legacy ! She spoke with signs of irritation . 
Eh , eh , you go too fast ! Eiran , to do him justice , is not a graduate in peculation . 
At worst , he is only the sort of fool one's cousins ordinarily are . 
The trousered lady walked to and fro for a while , with the impatience of a caged lioness . 
I perceive I must go more deeply into matters , Miss Ogle remarked , and , with that habitual gesture which he fondly recognized , brushed back a straying lock of hair . 
It is as apt as not to prove you are selling your vote to the wrong side of the House , and that hurts one's conscience . 
Ah , that is because you are a man . 
None of you has ever dared to insist on his opinion about anything until he had secured the cowardly corroboration of a fact or so to endorse him . 
Yet , since through no fault of yours your sex is invariably misled by its hallucinations as to the importance of being rational , I will refrain from logic and statistics . 
In a word , I simply inform you that I am a member of the League of Philanthropic Larcenists . 
I had not previously heard of this organization , said Mr. Sheridan , and not without suspecting his response to be a masterpiece in the inadequate . 
The proceeds of these endeavors , Miss Ogle added , are conscientiously devoted to ameliorating the condition of meritorious paupers . 
I would be happy to submit to you our annual report . 
Then you may judge for yourself how many families we have snatched from the depths of poverty and habitual intoxication to the comparative comfort of a vine embowered cottage . 
Mr. Sheridan replied I have not ever known of any case where adoration needed an affidavit for foundation . 
Oh , no , incomparable Esther Jane ! I am not in a position to be solaced by the reports of a corresponding secretary . 
I gave my heart long since to night I fling my confidence into the bargain and am resolved to serve wholeheartedly the cause to which you are devoted . 
In consequence , I venture to propose my name for membership in the enterprise you advocate and indescribably adorn . 
Miss Ogle was all one blush , such was the fervor of his utterance . 
But first you must win your spurs , Mr. Sheridan . 
Now all is plain and should you happen to distinguish yourself in robbery of the criminally opulent , you will have , I believe , no reason to complain of a twelfth refusal . 
I cannot modestly say more . 
She yielded him her hand in token of assent . 
And he , depend upon it , kissed that velvet trifle fondly . 
And now , said Mr. Sheridan , to morrow we will visit Bemerside and obtain possession of that crystal which is in train to render me the happiest of men . 
The task will be an easy one , as Eiran is now in England , and his servants for the most part are my familiars . 
I agree to your proposal , she answered . 
But this diamond is my allotted quarry and any assistance you may render me in procuring it will not , of course , affect in any way our bargain . 
On this point she spoke with a break of laughter I am as headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile . 
To quote an author to his face , lamented Mr. Sheridan , is bribery as gross as it is efficacious . 
I must unwillingly consent to your exorbitant demands , for you are , as always , the irresistible Ogle . 
When she had gone , Mr. Sheridan very gallantly attempted a set of verses . 
But the Muse was not to be wooed to night , and stayed obstinately coy . 
Mr. Sheridan reflected , rather forlornly , that he wrote nothing nowadays . 
So the parliamentarian sensibly went to bed . 
Miss , Ogle during this Scottish trip was accom panied by her father , the venerable Dean of Winchester . 
He was at pains to adorn this role with so many happy touches of courtesy and amiability that their confinement in the postchaise appeared to both of incredible brevity . 
When they had reached Melrose another chaise was ordered to convey them to Bemerside and pending its forthcoming Mr. Sheridan and Miss Ogle strolled among the famous ruins of Melrose Abbey . 
The parliamentarian had caused his hair to be exuberantly curled that morning , and figured to advantage in a plum colored coat and a saffron waistcoat sprigged with forget me nots . 
Oh , but observe , said Mr. Sheridan , more lately , our only covering is the dome of heaven . 
The moral is an old one , she returned . 
Mummy is become merchandise , Mizraim cures wounds , and Pharaoh is sold for balsams . 
You are a reader , madam ? he observed , with some surprise and he continued Indeed , my thoughts were on another trail . 
I was considering that the demolishers of this place those English armies , those followers of John Knox were actuated by the highest and most laudable of motives . 
As a result we find the house of Heaven converted into a dustheap . 
I believe you attempt an apologue , she said , indignantly . 
Indeed , incomparable Esther Jane , I had said nothing whatever touching hosiery and it was equally remote from my intentions to set up as a milliner . 
They lunched at Bemerside , where Mr. Sheridan was cordially received by the steward , and a well chosen repast was placed at their disposal . 
The Honor of Eiran was accordingly produced from a blue velvet case , and was properly admired . 
Then , when the steward had been dismissed to fetch a rare liqueur , Mr. Sheridan laughed , and tossed and caught the jewel , as though he handled a cricket ball . 
It was the size of a pigeon's egg , and was set among eight gems of lesser magnitude and in transit through the sunlight the trinket flashed and glittered with diabolical beauty . 
The parliamentarian placed three bits of sugar in the velvet case and handed the gem to his companion . 
The bulk is much the same , he observed and whether the carbon be crystallized or no , is the re sponsibility of stratigraphic geology . 
Fergus , per haps , must go to jail . 
But true philanthropy works toward the benefit of the greatest number possible and this resplendent pebble will purchase you innumerable pounds of tea and a warehouseful of blankets . 
But , Mr. Sheridan , Miss Ogle cried , in horror , to take this brooch would not be honest ! Oh , as to that ! he shrugged . 
because Lord Eiran purchased all these lesser diamonds , and very possibly paid for them . 
Then Mr. Sheridan reflected , stood abashed , and said Incomparable Esther Jane , I confess I am only a man . 
To purloin any of these little diamonds would be an abominable action , whereas to make off with the only valuable one is simply a stroke of retribution . 
I will , therefore , attempt to prise it out with a nutpick . 
Three constables came suddenly into the room . 
We hae been tauld this missy is a suspectit thieving body , their leader cried . 
Esther Jane Ogle , ye maun gae with us i' the law's name . 
Mr. Sheridan rose to the occasion . 
This he drawled , and appeared magisterially to await an explanation . 
'Tis an unco thing , the constable declared , but that wad be the word was amaist at my tongue's tip . 
Why , undoubtedly , Mr. Sheridan assented . 
I candidly confess such imbecility annoys me . 
Ils me connaissent , ils ont confidence dans moi . 
But I also spik the English , she sprightlily announced . 
I am appleed myself at to learn its by heart . 
Certainly you look for a needle in a hay bundle , my gentlemans . 
I am no stealer of the grand road , but the wife of Mistaire Sheridan , and her presence will say to you the remains . 
You see ! cried Mr. Sheridan , in modest triumph . 
His emphasis was such that the police withdrew with a concomitant of apologies . 
And now I claim my bond , said Mr. Sheridan , when they were once again free from intrusion . 
For we two are in Scotland , where the common declaration of a man and woman that they are married constitutes a marriage . 
Oh ! she exclaimed , and stood encrimsoned . 
Indeed , I must confess that the day's work has been a trick throughout . 
The diamond was pawned years ago . 
This trinket here is a copy in paste and worth perhaps some seven shillings sixpence . 
And those fellows were not constables , but just my cousin Eiran and two footmen in disguise . 
Nay , madam , you will learn with experience that to display unfailing candor is not without exception the price of happiness . 
But this , I think , evades our bargain , Mr. Sheridan . 
For you were committed to pilfer property to the value of L , And to fulfil the obligation I have stolen your hand in marriage . 
What , madam ! do you indeed pretend that any person outside of Bedlam would value you at less ? Believe me , your perfections are of far more worth . 
All persons recognize that save yourself , incomparable Esther Jane and yet , so patent is the proof of my contention , I dare to leave the verdict to your sense of justice . 
Miss Ogle did not speak . 
Her lashes fell as , with some ceremony , he led her to the long French mirror which was in the breakfast room . 
See now ! said Mr. Sheridan . 
But you are not like other women , Mr. Sheridan observed , with admirable dexterity . 
And I aspire to you , the irresistible Ogle ! you , who so great heartedly befriend the beggar ! you , who with such industry contrive alleviation for the discomforts of poverty . 
To the one hunger which is vital ! he repeated . 
Were there nothing else , it is indisputable we perform all actions better for having rehearsed them . 
He took a turn about the breakfast room , then came near to her . 
But three words say all . 
You but you have frightened me . 
Miss Ogle did not seem so terrified as to make any effort to recede from him and yet he saw that she was frightened in sober earnest . 
Her face showed pale , and soft , and glad , and awed , and desirable above all things and it remained so near him as to engender riotous aspirations . 
I love you , he said again . 
You would never have suspected this man could speak , upon occasion , flu ently . 
I think I think that Heaven was prodigal when Heaven made you . 
She laid one hand on each of his shoulders , facing him . 
Do not let me be too much afraid ! I have not ever been afraid before . 
His breathing was yet perfunctory . 
Miss Ogle murmured , And how long would you require ? Why , I intend , with your permission , to devote the remainder of my existence to the task . 
Eh , I concede that space too brief for any adequate discussion of the topic but I will try to be concise and very prac tical She laughed . 
Try , then Miss Ogle said . 
She was able to get no farther in the sentence , for reasons which to particularize would be indiscreet . 
Recognizing this fact , he turned to an order of writing begotten of the deepest popular needs and addressed to the best intelligence of the great middle classes of the community . 
Now emperors bide their times' rebuff I would not be a king enough Of woe it is to love The paths of power are steep and rough , And tempests reign above . 
I would not climb the imperial throne 'Tis built on ice which fortune's sun Thaws in the height of noon . 
Then farewell , kings , that squeak Ha' done ! To time's full throated tune . 
It is indisputable that in diplomatic circles news of this horrible occurrence was indirectly conceded in to smack of a direct intervention of Providence . 
was less discomfortable now prediction was an academic matter . 
Within the week most people had forgotten him , for everybody was discussing the execution of the Duc d'Enghein . 
And the aged unvenerable Grand Duke of Saxe Kesselberg died too in the same March and afterward his other grandson , Prince Augustus , reigned in the merry old debauchee's stead . 
Prince Hilary was vastly pleased . 
He assumed the name of Paul Vanderhoffen , selected at random from the novel he was reading when his postchaise conveyed him past the frontier of Saxe Kesselberg . 
Freed , penniless , and thoroughly content , he set about amusing himself having a world to frisk in and incidentally about the furnishing of his new friend Paul Vanderhoffen with life's necessaries . 
Hasn't a shilling , ma'am , but one of the most popular men in London . 
His poetry book was subscribed for by the Prince Regent and half the notables of the kingdom . 
Lady John Claridge , mother to the pupil , approved of the new tutor . 
It seems irrelevant , and yet for the tale's sake is noteworthy , that any room which harbored Lady John Claridge was through this fact converted into an absolute monarchy . 
And so , by the favor of Lady Claridge and destiny , the tutor stayed at Leamington Manor all summer . 
It may not be denied the tutor noted this . 
In fine , he fell in love with Mildred Claridge after a thorough going fashion such as Prince Fribble would have found amusing . 
As fruit of this indiscretion , an in considerable tutor at Leamington Manor whom Lady John Claridge regarded as a sort of upper servant was talking with a visitor . 
The tutor , it appeared , preferred to talk with the former Chancellor of Saxe Kesselberg in the middle of an open field . 
The time was afternoon , the season September , and the west was vaingloriously justifying the younger man's analogy of a gigantic Spanish omelette . 
Meanwhile , the younger man declaimed in a high pitched pleasant voice , wherein there was , as al ways , the elusive suggestion of a stutter . 
I repeat to you , the tutor observed , that no consideration will ever make a grand duke of me ex cepting over my dead body . 
He must expect to be aspersed with calumny , and once in a while with bullets . 
He may at the utmost aspire to introduce an innovation in evening dress , the Prince Regent , for instance , has invented a really very creditable shoe buckle . 
Tradition obligates him to devote his unofficial hours to sheer depravity Paul Vanderhoffen paused to meditate . 
And here the other interrupted . 
There is no need of names , your highness . 
Georges Desmarets was diminutive , black haired and corpulent . 
He was of dapper appearance , point device in everything , and he reminded you of a perky robin . 
The tutor flung out an Ouf ! I must recall to you that , thank heaven , I am not anybody's highness any longer . 
I am so hopelessly light minded that I cannot refrain from being rational even in matters which concern me personally and this , of course , no normal being ever thinks of doing . 
I really cannot help it . 
The Frenchman groaned whole heartedly . 
But we were speaking well , of foreign countries . 
However , with the assistance of his cousin who , incidentally , was also his heir the prince most op portunely died . 
Oh , pedant that you are ! in any event he was interred . 
And so , the prince was gathered to his fathers , and his cousin Augustus reigned in his stead . 
Until a certain politician who had been privy to this pious fraud The tutor shrugged . 
How can I word it without seeming hypercritical ? Georges Desmarets stretched out appealing hands . 
Oh , Desmarets , you are as vain as ever ! Let us say , then , of grand larceny . 
In any event , the poli tician was dismissed . 
And so the father broke off the match . 
And the enamored , if usurping , duke wept bitterly and tore his hair to such an extent he totally destroyed his best toupet . 
And privily the Guy Fawkes came into the presence of the exiled duke and prated of a restoration to ancestral dignities . 
And he was spurned by a certain highly intelligent person who considered it both tedious and ridiculous to play at being emperor of a backyard . 
And then I really don't recall what happened . 
But there was a general and unqualified deuce to pay with no pitch at a really satisfying temperature . 
The stouter man said quietly It is a thrilling tale which you narrate . 
Only , I do recall what hap pened then . 
The usurping duke was very much in earnest , desirous of retaining his little kingdom , and particularly desirous of the woman whom he loved . 
In consequence , he had Monsieur the Runaway obliterated while the latter was talking nonsense The tutor's brows had mounted . 
A hit ! The younger man unsmilingly gesticulated like one who has been touched in sword play . 
Behold now , as the populace in their blunt way would phrase it , I am squelched . 
And so the usurping duke was married and lived happily ever afterward . 
Georges Desmarets continued I repeat to you there is only the choice between declaring yourself and being we will say , removed . 
Your cousin is deeply in love with the Princess Sophia , and thanks to me , has now no chance of marrying her until his title has been secured by your removal . 
You are the grain of sand between big wheels . 
I iterate that the footpad who attacked you last night was merely a prologue . 
I happen to know your cousin has entrusted the affair to Heinrich Obendorf , his foster brother , who , as you will remember , is not particularly squeamish . 
Paul Vanderhoffen thought a while . 
Desmarets , he said at last , it is no use . 
I scorn your pribbles and your prabbles . 
I traded a duchy for my personal liberty . 
Frankly , I would be sorry to connect a sharer of my blood with the assault of yesterday . 
To be unpardonably candid , I have not ever found that your assertion of an event quite proved it had gone through the formality of occurring . 
And so I shall hold to my bargain . 
The night brings counsel , Desmarets returned . 
It hardly needs a night , I think , to demonstrate that all I say is true . 
I wish that you were not so sensible . 
I wish your mother were not even more so . 
The woman reeks with common sense , and knows that to be common is to be unanswerable . 
I wish that a dispute with her were not upon a par with remonstrance against an earthquake . 
He lighted a fresh cheroot . 
And so you are to marry the Brudenel title and bank account , with this particular Heleigh thrown in as a dividend . 
And why not ? the estate is considerable the man who encumbers it is sincere in his adoration of you and , chief of all , Lady John Claridge has decreed it . 
And your decision in any matter has always lain between the claws of that steel armored crocodile who , by some miracle , is your mother . 
Paul Vanderhoffen reeled , his face bewilderment . 
His hands clutched toward the sky , as if in anguish he grasped at some invisible support , and he coughed once or twice . 
Then Vanderhoffen shivered as though he were very cold , and tottered and collapsed in the parched roadway . 
A slinking man whose lips were gray and could not refrain from twitching came toward the limp heap . 
So ! said the man . 
One of his hands went to the tutor's breast , and in his left hand dangled a second dueling pistol . 
He had thrown away the other after firing it . 
And so ! observed Paul Vanderhoffen . 
Aft erward there was a momentary tussle . 
Now Paul Vanderhoffen stood erect and flourished the loaded pistol . 
If you go on this way , he said , with some severity , you will presently be neither loved nor respected . 
There was a time , though , when you were an excellent shot , Herr Heinrich Obendorf . 
I had my orders , highness , said the other stolidly . 
Oh yes , of course , Paul Vanderhoffen answered . 
You had your orders from Augustus ! He seemed to think of something very far away . 
He smiled , with quizzically narrowed eyes such as you may yet see in Raeburn's portrait of the man . 
I was remembering , oddly enough , that elm just back of the Canova Pa vilion as it was twenty years ago . 
I managed to scramble up it , but Augustus could not follow me because he had such short fat little legs . 
He was so proud of what I had done that he insisted on telling everybody and afterward we had oranges for luncheon , I remember , and sucked them through bits of sugar . 
It is not fair that you must always remember and always love that boy who played with you when you were little after he has grown up to be another person . 
Eh no ! youth passes , but all its memories of unimportant things remain with you and are less kind than any self respecting viper would be . 
Decidedly , it is not fair , and some earnest minded person ought to write to his morning paper about it . 
I think that is the reason I am being a sentimental fool , Paul Vanderhoffen explained . 
Get on , my man , he said . 
Do not remain too near to me , because there was a time when I loved your employer quite as much as you do . 
This fact is urging me to dangerous ends . 
Yes , it is prompting me , even while I talk with you , to give you a lesson in marksmanship , my inconveniently faithful Heinrich . 
Oh Brutus ! Ravaillac ! Damiens ! he drawled . 
O general compendium of misguided aspirations ! do be a duck and get along with you . 
And I would run as hard as I could , if I were you , for it is war now , and you and I are not on the same side . 
Paul Vanderhoffen paused a hundred yards or so from this to shake his head . 
Come , come ! I have lost so much that I cannot afford to throw my good temper into the bargain . 
Let us , by all means , not consider the obdurate if gilded barriers , but rather the lettuce and the cuttle bone . 
He smiled now over Paul Vanderhoffen's rage . 
Since the situation is tragic , let us approach it in an appropriate spirit of frivolity . 
And I succumb to irrationality , as rational persons invariably end by doing . 
And he strode on , resolved to be Prince Fribble to the last . 
Frivolity , he said , is the smoked glass through which a civilized person views the only world he has to live in . 
For , otherwise , he could not presume to look upon such coruscations of insanity and remain unblinded . 
This heartened him , as a rounded phrase will do the best of us . 
But by and bye , Frivolity , he groaned , is really the cheap mask incompetence claps on when haled before a mirror . 
And at Leamington Manor he found her strolling upon the lawn . 
It was an ordered , lovely scene , steeped now in the tranquillity of evening . 
Above , the stars were losing diffidence . 
Below , and within arms' reach , Mildred Claridge was treading the same planet on which he fidgeted and stuttered . 
Something in his heart snapped like a fiddle string , and he was entirely aware of this circumstance . 
As to her eyes , teeth , coloring , complexion , brows , height and hair , it is needless to expatiate . 
But he would be Prince Fribble to the last . 
And so , Wait just a moment , please , he said , I want to harrow up your soul and freeze your blood . 
Wherewith he suavely told her everything about Paul Vanderhoffen's origin and the alternatives now offered him , and she listened without comment . 
Ai ! ai ! young Vanderhoffen perorated the situation is complete . 
I have not the least desire to be Grand Duke of Saxe Kesselberg . 
It is too abominably tedious . 
For as long as I live , I will be an insuperable barrier between Augustus and his Sophia . 
Then he deliberated , and sulkily submitted But I may not even propose to abdicate . 
Augustus has put himself upon sworn record as an eye witness of my hideous death . 
And in consequence I might keep on abdicating from now to the crack of doom , and the only course left open to him would be to treat me as an impostor . 
She replied , with emphasis , I think your cousin is a beast ! Ah , but the madman is in love , he pleaded . 
You should not judge poor masculinity in such a state by any ordinary standards . 
Oh really , you don't know the Princess Sophia . 
She is , in sober truth , the nicest person who was ever born a princess . 
Why , she had actually made a mock of even that handicap , for ordinarily it is as disastrous to feminine appearance as writing books . 
And , oh , Lord ! they will be marrying her to me , if Desmarets and I win out . 
The designing minx ! Miss Claridge said , dis tinctly . 
Come , let's be lyrical and open minded , he urged and he added , No , either you are in love or else you are not in love . 
And nothing else will matter either way . 
You see , if men and women had been primarily designed to be rational creatures , there would be no explanation for their being permitted to continue in existence , he lucidly explained . 
And to have grasped this fact is the pith of all wisdom . 
Oh , I am very wise . 
A glint of laughter shone in her eyes . 
I would claim to be another Pythoness if only it did not sound so snaky and wriggling . 
So , from my trident or was it a Triton they used to stand on ? I announce that you and your Augustus are worrying yourselves gray headed over an idiotically simple problem . 
Now , I disposed of it offhand when I said , Man proposes . 
He seemed to be aware of some one who from a considerable distance was inquiring her reasons for this statement . 
Because in Saxe Kesselberg , as in all other German states , when a prince of the reigning house marries outside of the mediatized nobility he thereby forfeits his right of succession . 
It has been done any number of times . 
Why , don't you see , Mr. Vanderhoffen ? Conceding you ever do such a thing , your cousin Augustus would become at once the legal heir . 
And , I believe , he replied , that all this is actually happening . 
I might have known fate meant to glut her taste for irony . 
An infinite despair and mirth as well was kindled by her nearness . 
And the man was insane and dimly knew as much . 
And so , I see , he answered . 
But , as it happens , I cannot marry any woman , because I love a particular woman . 
At least , I suppose she isn't anything but just a woman . 
That statement , he announced , is a formal tribute paid by what I call my intellect to what the vulgar call the probabilities . 
The rest of me has no patience whatever with such idiotic blasphemy . 
She said , I think I understand . 
And this surprised him , coming as it did from her whom he had always supposed to be the fiancee of Lord Brudenel's title and bank account . 
And so he shrugged there is positively nothing left to do save sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the deaths of kings . 
And Mildred Claridge said , It is not fair for dreamers such as you to let a woman know just how he loves her . 
His lips were making a variety of irrational noises . 
And he was near to her . 
Also he realized that he had never known how close akin were fear and joy , so close the two could mingle thus , and be quite un distinguishable . 
And then repentance smote him . 
I am contemptible ! he groaned . 
I had no right to trouble you with my insanities . 
Indeed I had not ever meant to let you guess how mad I was . 
But always I have evaded my responsibilities . 
So I remain Prince Fribble to the last . 
Oh , but I knew , I have always known . 
She held her eyes away from him . 
And I wrote to Lord Brudenel only yesterday releasing him from his engagement . 
And what he saw there frightened him . 
And then he said , You know that what I hunger for is impossible . 
There are so many little things , like common sense , to be considered . 
For , my dear , the verses I write of my own accord are not sufficiently genteel to be vended in Paternoster Row they smack too dangerously of human intelligence . 
So I am compelled , perforce , to scribble such jingles as I am ashamed to read , because I must write SOMETHING . 
Paul Vanderhoffen shrugged , and continued , in tones more animated There will be no talk of any grand duke . 
Instead , there will be columns of denunciation and tittle tattle in every newspaper quite as if you , a baronet's daughter , had run away with a footman . 
And you will very often think wistfully of Lord Brudenel's fine house when your only title is well , Princess of Grub Street , and your realm is a garret . 
And for a while even to morrow's break fast will be a problematical affair . 
It is true Lord Lansdowne has promised me a registrarship in the Admiralty Court , and I do not think he will fail me . 
But that will give us barely enough to live on with strict economy , which is a virtue that neither of us knows anything about . 
I beg you to remember that you who have been used to every luxury ! you who really were devised that you might stand beside an emperor and set tasks for him . 
His high pitched pleasant voice , in spite of him , shook now with more than its habitual suggestion of a stutter . 
What have you done to me , my dear ? he said . 
Why can't I jest at this . 
as I have always done at every thing ? Boy , boy ! she said laughter is excellent . 
And wisdom too is excellent . 
And now I know , she answered happily . 
They looked at each other for a little while . 
Then he took her hand , prepared in turn for self denial . 
The Household Review wants me to do' a series on famous English bishops , he reported , humbly . 
I had meant to refuse , because it would all have to be dull High Church twaddle . 
And the English Gentleman wants some rather outrageous lying done in defense of the Corn Laws . 
You would not despise me too much would you , Mildred ? if I undertook it now . 
I really have no choice . 
And there is plenty of hackwork of that sort available to keep us going until more solvent days , when I shall have opportunity to write something quite worthy of you . 
For the present , dear , it would be much more sensible , I think , to do' the bishops and the Corn Laws . 
And I don't believe you mean to let me . 
But to him , forebodingly , that familiar statement seemed to lack present application . 
As it was , he accepted defeat and compromised half heartedly with commercialism . 
And men unborn will read of Heloise , And Ruth , and Rosamond , and Semele , When none remembers your name's melody Or rhymes your name , enregistered with these . 
Torrismond's Envoi , in Ashtaroths Lackey . 
THE LADY OF ALL OUR DREAMS Our distinguished alumnus , after being duly presented as such , had with vivacity delivered much the usual sort of Commencement Address . 
Yet John Charteris was in reality a trifle fagged . 
The afternoon train had been vexatiously late . 
The little novelist had found it tedious to interchange inanities with the committee awaiting him at the Pull man steps . 
Pauline Romeyne had sat beside him then yonder , upon the fourth bench from the front , where now another boy with painstakingly plastered hair was clapping hands . 
There was a girl on the right of this boy , too . 
These were the people whom he had lived among once , and some of these had once been people whom he loved . 
Now there was hardly any one whom at a glance he would have recognized . 
He was adjudged to be delightful , cordial , and not a bit stuck up , not spoiled at all , you know . 
To appear this was the talisman with which he banteringly encountered the universe . 
But John Charteris , as has been said , was in reality a trifle fagged . 
He went out upon the Campus . 
Mr. Charteris chose to count him . 
Whimsically , Mr. Charteris reflected that this battered nobleman's was the one familiar face he had exhumed in all Fairhaven . 
because of many unfinished sentences . 
Oh , YOU know what I mean , dear ! one would say as a last resort . 
And she why , bless her heart ! of course , she always did . 
Heigho , youth's was a pleasant lunacy . 
Thus Charteris reflected , growing drowsy . 
She said , You spoke very well to night . 
No , upon reflection , I think I should rather describe it as a conglomeration of piffle , patriotism and pyrotechnics . 
Well , Madam Do as you would be done by , what would you have ? You must give people what they want . 
Must one ? she asked . 
Oh , yes , I know you have always thought that , but I do not quite see the neces sity of it . 
She sat upon the bench beside Lord Penniston's square marble pedestal . 
The tooth of Time , he reminded her , has since then written wrinkles on my azure brow . 
At least , you haven't , he declared . 
Of course , I would be compelled to say so , anyhow . 
But in this happy instance courtesy and veracity come skipping arm in arm from my elated lips . 
And , indeed , it seemed to him that Pauline was marvelously little altered . 
I wonder now , he said , and cocked his head , I wonder now whose wife I am talking to ? No , Jack , I never married , she said quietly . 
It is selfish of me , he said , in the same tone , but I am glad of that . 
And so they sat a while , each thinking . 
I suppose it is because they know that if it ever did come true , we would be gods like them . 
The ordinary associates of John Charteris , most certainly , would not have suspected him to be the speaker . 
And then they get their fore planned mirth , these Overlords of Life and Death . 
We gave you , they chuckle , the loveliest and greatest thing infinity contains . 
And you bartered it because of a clerkship or a lying maxim or perhaps a finger ring . 
I suppose that they must laugh a great deal . 
Eh , what ? But then you never married ? For masculinity in argument starts with the word it has found distasteful . 
Nor I. And his tone implied that the two facts conjoined proved much . 
Miss Willoughby ? she inquired . 
Oh , people will talk , you know . 
Let any man once find a woman has a tongue in her head , and the stage direction is always Enter Rumor , painted full of tongues . 
Pauline did not appear to have remarked his protest . 
Yes , in the end you will marry her . 
And her money will help , just as you have contrived to make everything else help , toward making John Charteris comfortable . 
She is not very clever , but she will always worship you , and so you two will not prove uncongenial . 
That is your real tragedy , if I could make you comprehend . 
Pauline was smiling , but restrainedly , and much as a woman does in condoning the naughtiness of her child . 
And , oh , if only Why , precisely . 
Why , there you word the key note , you touch the cornerstone , you ruthlessly illuminate the mainspring , of an intractable unfeeling universe . 
But , as it is , our epitaphs will probably be nothing of the sort . 
So that there lurks , you see , much virtue in this if only . 
What would you have ? The answer came , downright , and , as he knew , entirely truthful I would have had you do all that you might have done . 
But he must needs refine . 
Why , no you would have made me do it , wrung out the last drop . 
You would have bullied me and shamed me into being all that I might have been . 
He spoke as if in wonder , with quickening speech . 
Pauline , I haven't been entirely not worth while . 
Oh , yes , I know ! I know I haven't written five act tragedies which would be immortal , as you probably expected me to do . 
My books are not quite the books I was to write when you and I were young . 
But I have made at worst some neat , precise and joyous little tales which prevaricate tenderly about the universe and veil the pettiness of human nature with screens of verbal jewelwork . 
It is not the actual world they tell about , but a vastly superior place where the Dream is realized and everything which in youth we knew was possible comes true . 
It is a world we have all glimpsed , just once , and have not ever entered , and have not ever forgotten . 
So people like my little tales . 
Do they induce delusions ? Oh , well , you must give people what they want , and literature is a vast bazaar where customers come to purchase everything except mirrors . 
She said soberly , You need not make a jest of it . 
It is not ridiculous that you write of beautiful and joyous things because there was a time when living was really all one wonderful adventure , and you remember it . 
But , oh , my dear , my dear ! such glum discussions are so sadly out of place on such a night as this , he lamented . 
For it is a night of pearl like radiancies and velvet shadows and delicate odors and big friendly stars that promise not to gossip , whatever happens . 
It is a night that hungers , and all its undistinguishable little sounds are voicing the night's hunger for masks and mandolins , for rope ladders and balconies and serenades . 
a night wherein I gratefully remember so many beautiful sad things that never happened . 
to John Charteris , yet surely happened once upon a time to me . 
I think that I know what it is to remember better than you do , Jack . 
But what do you remember ? In faith , my dear , the most Bedlamitish occur rences ! It is a night that breeds deplorable insanities , I warn you . 
For you were there , of course . 
There is a boat in that picture I suppose it was deeply laden with pirates coming to slit our throats from ear to ear . 
I have forgotten that part , but I remember the tiny spot of courtplaster just above your painted lips . 
Such are the jumbled pictures . 
They are bred of brain fag , no doubt yet , whatever be their lineage , said Charteris , happily , they render glum discussion and platitudinous moralizing quite out of the question . 
Don't let's be cowed a moment longer by those bits of paper with figures on them which our too credulous fellow idiots consider to be the only almanacs . 
Let's have back yesterday , let's tweak the nose of Time intrepidly . 
He inadequately answered Bosh ! and later , Do you remember ? he began . 
Yes , she remembered that , it developed . 
And Do you remember ? she in turn was asking later . 
It was to seem to him in retrospection that neither for the next half hour began a sentence without this for mula . 
Then twelve o'clock was heralded by the College bell , and Pauline arose as though this equable deep throated interruption of the music's levity had been a signal . 
John Charteris saw her clearly now and she was beautiful . 
You will not ever quite forget me , Jack . 
Such is my sorry comfort . 
It seemed to Char teris that she smiled as in mockery , and yet it was a very tender sort of derision . 
Yes , you have made your books . 
You have done what you most desired to do . 
You have got all from life that you have asked of life . 
Oh , yes , you have got much from life . 
One prize , though , Jack , you missed . 
He , too , had risen , quiet and perfectly sure of himself . 
Did I not always love you , Jack ? Yes , even when you went away forever , and there were no letters , and the days were long . 
Yes , even knowing you , I loved you , John Charteris . 
Oh , I was wrong , all wrong , he cried and yet there is something to be said upon the other side , as always . 
Now Charteris was still for a while . 
The little man's chin was uplifted so that it was toward the stars he looked rather than at Pauline Romeyne , and when he spoke he seemed to meditate aloud . 
Here he laughed , a little ruefully . 
No , I do not think I can explain this obsession to any one who has never suffered from it . 
Yes , the Dream is an exacting master . 
My books , such as they are , have been made what they are at the dear price of never permitting myself to care seriously for anything else . 
That may not be the best way of making books , but it is the only one that was possible for me . 
I had so little natural talent , you see , said Charteris , wistfully , and I was anxious to do so much with it . 
So I had always to be careful . 
It has been rather lonely , my dear . 
Yes , that is how I served the Dream and that is how I got my books . 
They are very beautiful books , I think , but they cost me fifteen years of human living and human intimacy , and they are hardly worth so much . 
He turned to her , and his voice changed . 
Oh , I was wrong , all wrong , and chance is kindlier than I deserve . 
For I have wandered after unprofitable gods , like a man blundering through a day of mist and fog , and I win home now in its golden sunset . 
I have laughed very much , my dear , but I was never happy until to night . 
But you , I think , have always comprehended this . 
My dear , if I were worthy to kneel and kiss the dust you tread in I would do it . 
As it happens , I am not worthy . 
One strutted , no doubt it was because one knew oneself to be indomitable . 
Eh , it is true I have won all I asked of life , very horribly true . 
I want just to recapture that old time we know of , and we two alone . 
I want to know the Dream again , Pauline , the Dream which I had lost , had half forgotten , and have so pitifully parodied . 
I want to know the Dream again , Pauline , and you alone can help me . 
Oh , if I could ! if even I could now , my dear ! Pauline Romeyne left him upon a sudden , crying this . 
And So ! said Mr. Charteris . 
Yes , that would fit in well enough , although , of course , he would have to cancel the engagement to lecture in Milwaukee . 
and besides , you'll catch your death of cold , lamented Rudolph Musgrave , who was now shaking Mr. Charteris' shoulder . 
Eh , what ? Oh , yes , I daresay I was napping , the other mumbled . 
He stood and stretched himself luxuriously . 
Well , anyhow , don't be such an un mitigated grandmother . 
You see , I have a bit of rather important business to attend to . 
Which way is Miss Romeyne ? Pauline Romeyne ? why , but she married old General Ashmeade , you know . 
She was the gray haired woman in purple who carried out her squalling brat when Taylor was introducing you , if you remember . 
Why , what in the world have you been dreaming about ? Eh , what ? Oh , yes , I daresay I was only napping , Mr. Charteris observed . 
He was aware that within they were still playing a riotous two step . 
BALLAD OF PLAGIARY Freres et matres , vous qui cultivez PAUL VERVILLE . 
Ye have toiled and ye have fretted ye attain perfected speech Ye have nothing new to utter and but platitudes to preach . 
And your rhymes are all of loving , as within the old days when Love was lord of the ascendant in the horoscopes of men . 
Them ye copy copy always , with your backs turned to the sun , Caring not what man is doing , noting that which man has done . 
Hey , my masters , turn from piddling to the turmoil and the strife ! Cease from sonneting , my brothers let us fashion songs from life . 
Thus I wrote ere Percie passed me . 
Then did I epitomize All life's beauty in one poem , and make haste to eulogize Quite the fairest thing life boasts of , for I wrote of Percie's eyes . 
