CHARLOTTE TEMPLE SUSANNA HASWELL ROWSON CHAPTER I. A Boarding School . 
CHAPTER V. Such Things Are . 
Natural Sense of Propriety Inherent in the Female Bosom . 
We Know Not What a Day May Bring Forth . 
CHAPTER X. When We Have Excited Curiosity , It Is But an Act of Good Nature to Gratify it . 
Conflict of Love and Duty . 
Virtue never appears so amiable as when reaching forth her hand to raise a fallen sister . 
Teach me to feel another's woe , To hide the fault I see , That mercy I to others show That mercy show to me . 
A Man May Smile , and Smile , and Be a Villain . 
Pensive she mourn'd , and hung her languid head , Like a fair lily overcharg'd with dew . 
And what is friendship but a name , A charm that lulls to sleep , A shade that follows wealth and fame , But leaves the wretch to weep . 
Which People Void of Feeling Need Not Read . 
Sensible as I am that a novel writer , at a time when such a variety of works are ushered into the world under that name , stands PREFACE . 
CHARLOTTE TEMPLE , VOLUME I CHAPTER I. A BOARDING SCHOOL . 
Such an assemblage of youth and innocence naturally attracted the young soldiers they stopped and , as the little cavalcade passed , almost involuntarily pulled off their hats . 
A tall , elegant girl looked at Montraville and blushed he instantly recollected the features of Charlotte Temple , whom he had once seen and danced with at a ball at Portsmouth . 
Vanity led him to think that pleasure at again beholding him might have occasioned the emotion he had witnessed , and the same vanity led him to wish to see her again . 
She is the sweetest girl in the world , said he , as he entered the inn . 
Pho , said Belcour , a musket ball from our friends , the Americans , may in less than two months make you feel worse . 
Montraville leaned on a broken gate , and looked earnestly at the house . 
The wall which surrounded it was high , and perhaps the Argus's who guarded the Hesperian fruit within , were more watchful than those famed of old . 
The evening now was closed a serene stillness reigned and the chaste Queen of Night with her silver crescent faintly illuminated the hemisphere . 
The mind of Montraville was hushed into composure by the serenity of the surrounding objects . 
I will at least see who these are , said he . 
Temple was the youngest son of a nobleman whose fortune was by no means adequate to the antiquity , grandeur , and I may add , pride of the family . 
He had a heart open to every generous feeling of humanity , and a hand ready to dispense to those who wanted part of the blessings he enjoyed himself . 
You cannot oblige me more , said Temple , than to point out any way by which I can be serviceable to my fellow creatures . 
The officer , whose name was Blakeney , tapped at the door , and was bid to enter by a voice melodiously soft . 
He opened the door , and discovered to Temple a scene which rivetted him to the spot with astonishment . 
The apartment , though small , and bearing strong marks of poverty , was neat in the extreme . 
Beside him sat a lovely creature busied in painting a fan mount . 
She was fair as the lily , but sorrow had nipped the rose in her cheek before it was half blown . 
This is a strange place , said he to Temple , to receive visitors of distinction in but we must fit our feelings to our station . 
He rose hastily from his seat , and walking toward the window , wiped off a tear which he was afraid would tarnish the cheek of a sailor . 
Temple cast his eye on Miss Eldridge a pellucid drop had stolen from her eyes , and fallen upon a rose she was painting . 
It blotted and discoloured the flower . 
'Tis emblematic , said he mentally the rose of youth and health soon fades when watered by the tear of affliction . 
My good young man , said Eldridge , you know not what you offer . 
Temple was moved even to tears . 
You will both live many years , said he , and I hope see much happiness . 
Cheerly , my friend , cheerly these passing clouds of adversity will serve only to make the sunshine of prosperity more pleasing . 
But we are losing time you might ere this have told me who were your creditors , what were their demands , and other particulars necessary to your liberation . 
Go , my love leave me now to morrow at your usual hour I will expect you . 
Miss Eldridge impressed on his cheek the kiss of filial affection , and obeyed . 
MY life , said Mr. Eldridge , till within these few years was marked by no particular circumstance deserving notice . 
I early embraced the life of a sailor , and have served my King with unremitted ardour for many years . 
At the age of twenty five I married an amiable woman one son , and the girl who just now left us , were the fruits of our union . 
My boy had genius and spirit . 
I straitened my little income to give him a liberal education , but the rapid progress he made in his studies amply compensated for the inconvenience . 
George chose the profession of a soldier . 
He listened to us with attention , and offered to advance any sum necessary for his first setting out . 
About this time my dear Lucy returned from school , and I soon began to imagine Lewis looked at her with eyes of affection . 
I gave my child a caution to beware of him , and to look on her mother as her fe , , end . 
I took an early opportunity of questioning him concerning his intentions towards my child he gave an equivocal answer , and I forbade him the house . 
The next day he sent and demanded payment of his money . 
It was not in my power to comply with the demand . 
The horrors of that night unman me . 
No , said Temple but the truly brave soul is tremblingly alive to the feelings of humanity . 
and painful as these feelings are , I would not exchange them for that torpor which the stoic mistakes for philosophy . 
This is true philosophy , said Temple . 
'Tis the only way to reconcile ourselves to the cross events of life , replied he . 
I will not longer intrude on your patience , but proceed in my melancholy tale . 
The very evening that I was taken to prison , my son arrived from Ireland , where he had been some time with his regiment . 
Fired at the insult offered to a man and a soldier , my boy struck the villain , and a challenge ensued . 
This letter was delivered to me early in the morning . 
A fever and strong delirium seized me , and my life was despaired of . 
By degrees the rest returned I recollected being arrested , but could no ways account for being in this apartment , whither they had conveyed me during my illness . 
I was so weak as to be almost unable to speak . 
I pressed Lucy's hand , and looked earnestly round the apartment in search of another dear object . 
Where is your mother ? said I , faintly . 
The poor girl could not answer she shook her head in expressive silence and throwing herself on the bed , folded her arms about me , and burst into tears . 
What ! both gone ? said I. Both , she replied , endeavouring to restrain her emotions but they are happy , no doubt . 
Here Mr. Eldridge paused the recollection of the scene was too painful to permit him to proceed . 
Father of mercies , spare me ! She fell into a strong convulsion , and expired in about two hours . 
In the mean time , a surgeon had dressed George's wounds but they were in such a situation as to bar the smallest hopes of recovery . 
He never was sensible from the time he was brought home , and died that evening in the arms of his sister . 
Late as it was when this event took place , my affectionate Lucy insisted on coming to me . 
My circumstances were greatly embarrassed , my acquaintance few , and those few utterly unable to assist me . 
No friend stepped forward to my relief from the grave of her mother , my beloved Lucy followed an almost dying father to this melancholy place . 
Here we have been nearly a year and a half . 
My half pay I have given up to satisfy my creditors , and my child supports me by her industry sometimes by fine needlework , sometimes by painting . 
A lady once offered her an asylum in her family but she would not leave me . 
'We are all the world to each other , said she . 
But where is this inhuman persecutor ? said Temple . 
He has been abroad ever since , replied the old man but he has left orders with his lawyer never to give up the note till the utmost farthing is paid . 
And how much is the amount of your debts in all ? said Temple . 
Five hundred pounds , he replied . 
Temple started it was more than he expected . 
But something must be done , said he that sweet maid must not wear out her life in a prison . 
You never lost a wife and son , said Eldridge . 
No , replied he , but I can feel for those that have . 
Eldridge pressed his hand as they went toward the door , and they parted in silence . 
And what is to be done for this distressed man , said Temple , as he walked up Ludgate Hill . 
When the heart has will , the hands can soon find means to execute a good action . 
Temple was a young man , his feelings warm and impetuous unacquainted with the world , his heart had not been rendered callous by being convinced of its fraud and hypocrisy . 
He pitied their sufferings , overlooked their faults , thought every bosom as generous as his own , and would chearfully have divided his last guinea with an unfortunate fellow creature . 
should resolve to raise money sufficient for the relief of Eldridge , by mortgaging part of his fortune . 
Art , Sir ! cried Temple eagerly . 
I hope you do not intend to complete your folly by marrying her . 
Were my fortune such as would support her according to her merit , I don't know a woman more formed to insure happiness in the married state . 
The old gentleman walked in a stately manner out of the room and Temple stood almost petrified with astonishment , contempt , and rage . 
CHAPTER V. SUCH THINGS ARE . 
Full of this determination , he fought his father , declared his resolution , and was commanded never more to appear in his presence . 
In the mean time , the Earl , vexed to the soul that such a fortune should be lost , determined to offer himself a candidate for Miss Weatherby's favour . 
Lucy smiled and Temple saw it was a smile of approbation . 
Among the teachers at Madame Du Pont's school , was Mademoiselle La Rue , who added to a pleasing person and insinuating address , a liberal education and the manners of a gentlewoman . 
But Mademoiselle possessed too much of the spirit of intrigue to remain long without adventures . 
Charlotte was disappointed in the pleasure she had promised herself from this visit . 
The levity of the gentlemen and the freedom of their conversation disgusted her . 
She was astonished at the liberties Mademoiselle permitted them to take grew thoughtful and uneasy , and heartily wished herself at home again in her own chamber . 
Perhaps one cause of that wish might be , an earnest desire to see the contents of the letter which had been put into her hand by Montraville . 
In affairs of love , a young heart is never in more danger than when attempted by a handsome young soldier . 
NATURAL SENSE OF PROPRIETY INHERENT IN THE FEMALE BOSOM . 
It was your own fault , then , replied Mademoiselle for I am sure my cousin omitted nothing that could serve to render the evening agreeable . 
True , said Charlotte but I thought the gentlemen were very free in their manner I wonder you would suffer them to behave as they did . 
Lord bless you , my dear girl , cried the teacher smiling , have you a mind to be in leading strings all your life time . 
I should not like to leave school yet , replied Charlotte , till I have attained a greater proficiency in my Italian and music . 
She laid the letter on the table , and began to undress herself . 
'Tis well enough , said Charlotte , drawing it towards her . 
He is a genteel young fellow , said La Rue carelessly , folding up her apron at the same time but I think he is marked with the small pox . 
Oh you are greatly mistaken , said Charlotte eagerly he has a remarkable clear skin and fine complexion . 
His eyes , if I could judge by what I saw , said La Rue , are grey and want expression . 
By no means , replied Charlotte they are the most expressive eyes I ever saw . 
Charlotte still held the letter in her hand her heart swelled at the conclusion of Mademoiselle's speech , and a tear dropped upon the wafer that closed it . 
The wafer is not dry yet , said she , and sure there can be no great harm She hesitated . 
I may read it , Mademoiselle , and return it afterwards . 
At any rate I am determined not to answer it , continued Charlotte , as she opened the letter . 
Mademoiselle eyed the unsuspecting Charlotte , as she perused the letter , with a malignant pleasure . 
Temple pressed his wife's hand in token of approbation , and she proceeded . 
I know she will be delighted and to complete all , they shall have some music , and finish with a dance . 
She is a good girl , said Temple . 
She is , indeed , replied the fond mother exultingly , a grateful , affectionate girl and I am sure will never lose sight of the duty she owes her parents . 
If she does , said he , 'she must forget the example set her by the best of mothers . 
Mrs. Temple could not reply but the delightful sensation that dilated her heart sparkled in her intelligent eyes and heightened the vermillion on her cheeks . 
Pleasure is a vain illusion she draws you on to a thousand follies , errors , and I may say vices , and then leaves you to deplore your thoughtless credulity . 
Is poverty your portion ? she will lighten your labours , preside at your frugal board , and watch your quiet slumbers . 
Content , my dear friends , will blunt even the arrows of adversity , so that they cannot materially harm you . 
She will dwell in the humblest cottage she will attend you even to a prison . 
Her parent is Religion her sisters , Patience and Hope . 
She will pass with you through life , smoothing the rough paths and tread to earth those thorns which every one must meet with as they journey onward to the appointed goal . 
Merciful heaven ! who would exchange the rapture of such a reflexion for all the gaudy tinsel which the world calls pleasure ! But to return . 
WE KNOW NOT WHAT A DAY MAY BRING FORTH . 
VARIOUS were the sensations which agitated the mind of Charlotte , during the day preceding the evening in which she was to meet Montraville . 
I must not be ungrateful , said she . 
However prudent Charlotte might be in these resolutions , she certainly did not take a proper method to confirm herself in them . 
Several times in the course of the day , she indulged herself in reading over the letter , and each time she read it , the contents sunk deeper in her heart . 
As evening drew near , she caught herself frequently consulting her watch . 
Belcour was a man whose character might be comprised in a few words and as he will make some figure in the ensuing pages , I shall here describe him . 
Self , darling self , was the idol he worshipped , and to that he would have sacrificed the interest and happiness of all mankind . 
But alas ! poor Charlotte , she knew not the deceitfulness of her own heart , or she would have avoided the trial of her stability . 
Montraville was tender , eloquent , ardent , and yet respectful . 
I shall ever wish you well , Montraville , said she but we must meet no more . 
Say you will see me once again . 
I dare not , said she . 
Only for one half hour to morrow evening 'tis my last request . 
I shall never trouble you again , Charlotte . 
I know not what to say , cried Charlotte , struggling to draw her hands from him let me leave you now . 
And you will come to morrow , said Montraville . 
Perhaps I may , said she . 
I will live upon that hope till we meet again . 
She sighed an adieu , and catching hold of Mademoiselle's arm , hastily entered the garden gate . 
CHAPTER X. WHEN WE HAVE EXCITED CURIOSITY , IT IS BUT AN ACT OF GOOD NATURE TO GRATIFY IT . 
When Montraville chose the profession of arms , his father presented him with a commission , and made him a handsome provision for his private purse . 
Now , my boy , said he , 'go ! seek glory in the field of battle . 
Remember , therefore , your success in life depends entirely on yourself . 
I am serious , continued he , therefore imprint this conversation on your memory , and let it influence your future conduct . 
CONFLICT OF LOVE AND DUTY . 
Then we will never be parted , said he . 
Well , Charlotte , said Montraville gravely , and letting go her hand , since that is the case , I find I have deceived myself with fallacious hopes . 
I had flattered my fond heart , that I was dearer to Charlotte than any thing in the world beside . 
But farewel , Charlotte ! I see you never loved me . 
I shall now welcome the friendly ball that deprives me of the sense of my misery . 
She covered her face with her hands , and burst into tears . 
All these distressing scenes , my dear Charlotte , cried Montraville , are merely the chimeras of a disturbed fancy . 
The moment we reach our place of destination , Hymen shall sanctify our love and when I shall forget your goodness , may heaven forget me . 
You are a strange girl , said Mademoiselle you never know your own mind two minutes at a time . 
just now you declared Montraville's happiness was what you prized most in the world and now I suppose you repent having insured that happiness by agreeing to accompany him abroad . 
Indeed I do repent , replied Charlotte , from my soul but while discretion points out the impropriety of my conduct , inclination urges me on to ruin . 
But I hazard my dear reputation , replied Mademoiselle , bridling . 
True , replied Charlotte , but you do not feel what I do . 
She then bade her good night but sleep was a stranger to her eyes , and the tear of anguish watered her pillow . 
Come chear up , my love , said the governess I believe I have brought a cordial to revive them . 
I have just received a letter from your good mama , and here is one for yourself . 
Your grand father , eager to embrace the darling of his aged heart , will come in the chaise for you so hold yourself in readiness to attend him by nine o'clock . 
Your dear father joins in every tender wish for your health and future felicity , which warms the heart of my dear Charlotte's affectionate mother , L. TEMPLE . 
Gracious heaven ! cried Charlotte , forgetting where she was , and raising her streaming eyes as in earnest supplication . 
Madame Du Pont was surprised . 
Why these tears , my love ? said she . 
Why this seeming agitation ? I thought the letter would have rejoiced , instead of distressing you . 
It does rejoice me , replied Charlotte , endeavouring at composure , but I was praying for merit to deserve the unremitted attentions of the best of parents . 
You do right , said Madame Du Pont , to ask the assistance of heaven that you may continue to deserve their love . 
Continue , my dear Charlotte , in the course you have ever pursued , and you will insure at once their happiness and your own . 
Oh Mademoiselle ! said she , I am snatched by a miracle from destruction ! This letter has saved me it has opened my eyes to the folly I was so near committing . 
I will not go , Mademoiselle I will not wound the hearts of those dear parents who make my happiness the whole study of their lives . 
Well , said Mademoiselle , do as you please , Miss but pray understand that my resolution is taken , and it is not in your power to alter it . 
I shall meet the gentlemen at the appointed hour , and shall not be surprized at any outrage which Montraville may commit , when he finds himself disappointed . 
Charlotte formed this plan in her mind , and exulted in the certainty of its success . 
Mademoiselle smiled internally and they proceeded softly down the back stairs and out of the garden gate . 
Montraville and Belcour were ready to receive them . 
Now , said Montraville , taking Charlotte in his arms , you are mine for ever . 
No , said she , withdrawing from his embrace , I am come to take an everlasting farewel . 
I cannot go , said she cease , dear Montraville , to persuade . 
I must not religion , duty , forbid . 
Cruel Charlotte , said he , if you disappoint my ardent hopes , by all that is sacred , this hand shall put a period to my existence . 
I cannot will not live without you . 
Alas ! my torn heart ! said Charlotte , how shall I act ? Let me direct you , said Montraville , lifting her into the chaise . 
Oh ! my dear forsaken parents ! cried Charlotte . 
She shrieked , and fainted into the arms of her betrayer . 
When the chaise stopped , he alighted with the alacrity of youth so much do the emotions of the soul influence the body . 
She is busy , no doubt , said the governess , in preparing Charlotte for her little excursion but pleasure should never make us forget our duty to our Creator . 
Go , one of you , and bid them both attend prayers . 
The lady who went to summon them , soon returned , and informed the governess , that the room was locked , and that she had knocked repeatedly , but obtained no answer . 
Good heaven ! cried Madame Du Pont , this is very strange and turning pale with terror , she went hastily to the door , and ordered it to be forced open . 
The apartment instantly discovered , that no person had been in it the preceding night , the beds appearing as though just made . 
What can be the matter ? said he , rising and opening the door I fear some accident has befallen my dear girl . 
The visible agitation of her countenance discovered that something extraordinary had happened . 
Madam , cried the old man , with an angry look , has my child been accustomed to go out without leave , with no other company or protector than that French woman . 
You wrong me , Mr. Eldridge , replied she , if you suppose I have ever permitted your grand daughter to go out unless with the other ladies . 
I would to heaven I could form any probable conjecture concerning her absence this morning , but it is a mystery which her return can alone unravel . 
Servants were now dispatched to every place where there was the least hope of hearing any tidings of the fugitives , but in vain . 
Mr. Eldridge was preparing , with a heavy heart , to return to his anxiously expecting children , when Madame Du Pont received the following note without either name or date . 
Pursuit is needless the measures taken to avoid discovery are too effectual to be eluded . 
When she thinks her friends are reconciled to this precipitate step , they may perhaps be informed of her place of residence . 
As Madame Du Pont read these cruel lines , she turned pale as ashes , her limbs trembled , and she was forced to call for a glass of water . 
Does that letter relate to Charlotte ? said Mr. Eldridge , having waited some time in expectation of Madame Du Pont's speaking . 
It does , said she . 
Charlotte is well , but cannot return today . 
Not return , Madam ? where is she ? who will detain her from her fond , expecting parents ? You distract me with these questions , Mr. Eldridge . 
Indeed I know not where she is , or who has seduced her from her duty . 
The whole truth now rushed at once upon Mr. Eldridge's mind . 
She has eloped then , said he . 
My child is betrayed the darling , the comfort of my aged heart , is lost . 
Oh would to heaven I had died but yesterday . 
A violent gush of grief in some measure relieved him , and , after several vain attempts , he at length assumed sufficient composure to read the note . 
It is easy to judge the anxiety of these affectionate parents , when they found the return of their father delayed so much beyond the expected time . 
They were now met in the dining parlour , and several of the young people who had been invited were already arrived . 
Each different part of the company was employed in the same manner , looking out at the windows which faced the road . 
At length the long expected chaise appeared . 
Mrs. Temple ran out to receive and welcome her darling her young companions flocked round the door , each one eager to give her joy on the return of her birth day . 
The door of the chaise was opened Charlotte was not there . 
Where is my child ? cried Mrs. Temple , in breathless agitation . 
She is dead , cried Mrs. Temple . 
Oh my dear Charlotte ! and clasping her hands in an agony of distress , fell into strong hysterics . 
Mr. Temple , who had stood speechless with surprize and fear , now ventured to enquire if indeed his Charlotte was no more . 
It would be vain to attempt describing what Mr. Temple felt whilst he hastily ran over the dreadful lines when he had finished , the paper dropt from his unnerved hand . 
Mrs. Temple beginning to be a little more composed , but still imagining her child was dead , her husband , gently taking her hand , cried You are mistaken , my love . 
If I was ill , she would fly to attend me , to alleviate my sufferings , and chear me with her love . 
Be calm , my dearest Lucy , and I will tell you all , said Mr. Temple . 
You must not go , indeed you must not it will be of no use . 
Temple , said she , assuming a look of firmness and composure , tell me the truth I beseech you . 
I cannot bear this dreadful suspense . 
What misfortune has befallen my child ? Let me know the worst , and I will endeavour to bear it as I ought . 
Lucy , replied Mr. Temple , imagine your daughter alive , and in no danger of death what misfortune would you then dread ? There is one misfortune which is worse than death . 
But I know my child too well to suspect Be not too confident , Lucy . 
Not eloped ? cried she eagerly . 
You cannot contradict it , said she . 
I see my fate in those tearful eyes . 
The last words faultered on her tongue , and she fell fainting into the arms of her husband , who had involuntarily dropped on his knees beside her . 
A mother's anguish , when disappointed in her tenderest hopes , none but a mother can conceive . 
Yet , my dear young readers , I would have you read this scene with attention , and reflect that you may yourselves one day be mothers . 
As soon as she became tolerably composed , she entreated pen and ink to write to her parents . 
idea she indulged , of being once more folded in their protecting arms , and hearing the words of peace and pardon from their lips . 
they bid adieu to the white cliffs of Al bion . 
And shall we not forgive her ? said Mr. Temple . 
Forgive her ! exclaimed the mother . 
At length hope was no more despair usurped her place and the mansion which was once the mansion of peace , became the habitation of pale , dejected melancholy . 
Thus argued this excellent woman and in the execution of so laudable a resolution we shall leave her , to follow the fortunes of the hapless victim of imprudence and evil counsellors . 
ON board of the ship in which Charlotte and Mademoiselle were embarked , was an officer of large unincumbered fortune and elevated rank , and whom I shall call Crayton . 
Crayton was possessed of many amiable qualities , though the peculiar trait in his character , which we have already mentioned , in a great measure threw a shade over them . 
He was beloved for his humanity and benevolence by all who knew him , but he was easy and unsuspicious himself , and became a dupe to the artifice of others . 
He had by her one daughter , who entered into the world but a few hours before her mother left it . 
He frequently conversed with Charlotte he found her sensible , well informed , but diffident and unassuming . 
Let not the reader imagine Belcour's designs were honourable . 
The heedless Fair , who stoops to guilty joys , A man may pity but he must despise . 
I have seen and severely felt the anguish of her heart , and through every shade which cruelty or malice may throw over her , can discover the most amiable qualities . 
The inexperienced Charlotte was astonished at what she heard . 
It was certainly extremely wrong . 
She mentioned her thoughts to Montraville . 
He laughed at her simplicity , called her a little ideot , and patting her on the cheek , said she knew nothing of the world . 
If the world sanctifies such things , 'tis a very bad world I think , said Charlotte . 
Why I always understood they were to have been married when they arrived at New York . 
I am sure Mademoiselle told me Belcour promised to marry her . 
Well , and suppose he did ? Why , he should be obliged to keep his word I think . 
Well , but I suppose he has changed his mind , said Montraville , and then you know the case is altered . 
Charlotte looked at him attentively for a moment . 
A full sense of her own situation rushed upon her mind . 
She burst into tears , and remained silent . 
Montraville too well understood the cause of her tears . 
He kissed her cheek , and bidding her not make herself uneasy , unable to bear the silent but keen remonstrance , hastily left her . 
The next morning by sun rise they found themselves at anchor before the city of New York . 
A boat was ordered to convey the ladies on shore . 
Crayton accompanied them and they were shewn to a house of public entertainment . 
Scarcely were they seated when the door opened , and the Colonel found himself in the arms of his daughter , who had landed a few minutes before him . 
If , Mademoiselle , said Mrs. Beauchamp , you were the friend of my mother , you must be worthy the esteem of all good hearts . 
Be assured , my dear father , your happiness is mine . 
I shall rejoice in it , and sincerely love the person who contributes to it . 
It is a young lady , replied the Colonel , who came in the same vessel with us from England . 
He then drew his daughter aside , and told her in a whisper , Charlotte was the mistress of Montraville . 
But surely her mind is not depraved . 
The goodness of her heart is depicted in her ingenuous countenance . 
Charlotte caught the word pity . 
And am I already fallen so low ? said she . 
A sigh escaped her , and a tear was ready to start , but Montraville appeared , and she checked the rising emotion . 
Mademoiselle went with the Colonel and his daughter to another apartment . 
Charlotte remained with Montraville and Belcour . 
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME . 
CHARLOTTE TEMPLE , VOLUME II CHAPTER XVIII . 
These were the painful reflections which occupied the mind of Charlotte . 
But often , very often , did he promise to renew his visits , and , forgetful of his promise , leave her to mourn her disappointment . 
to come and steep her senses in oblivion . 
Dreadfully painful is the situation of such a woman , but she has many comforts of which our poor Charlotte was deprived . 
Then , as she stoops to pluck the noxious weed from off the sod , a tear will fall , and consecrate the spot to Charity . 
For ever honoured be the sacred drop of humanity the angel of mercy shall record its source , and the soul from whence it sprang shall be immortal . 
My dear Madam , contract not your brow into a frown of disapprobation . 
I say , my dear Madam , when we consider this , we surely may pity the faults of others . 
Then let me tell you , Madam , 'tis a very unfeeling world , and does not deserve half the blessings which a bountiful Providence showers upon it . 
Montraville was introduced to her by the following accident . 
Upon opening it , he found it contained jewels to a large amount , about two hundred pounds in money , and a miniature picture set for a bracelet . 
On examining the picture , he thought he had somewhere seen features very like it , but could not recollect where . 
He was immediately introduced , found she was the owner of the jewels , and was invited to breakfast the next morning in order to their restoration . 
But on retiring , recollection returned . 
He repaired to Mr. Franklin's , and found Julia in the breakfast parlour alone . 
How happy am I , Madam , said he , that being the fortunate instrument of saving these jewels has been the means of procuring me the acquaintance of so amiable a lady . 
There are the jewels and money all safe . 
But where is the picture , Sir ? said Julia . 
I would not willingly part with it . 
It is the portrait of my mother , said she , taking it from him 'tis all that remains . 
She pressed it to her lips , and a tear trembled in her eyes . 
Montraville glanced his eye on her grey night gown and black ribbon , and his own feelings prevented a reply . 
I have been mistaken , said Montraville . 
I imagined I loved Charlotte but alas ! I am now too late convinced my attachment to her was merely the impulse of the moment . 
I thought you had forgot me , Montraville , said she , and was very unhappy . 
I shall never forget you , Charlotte , he replied , pressing her hand . 
The uncommon gravity of his countenance , and the brevity of his reply , alarmed her . 
You are not well , said she your hand is hot your eyes are heavy you are very ill . 
I am a villain , said he mentally , as he turned from her to hide his emotions . 
But come , continued she tenderly , you shall go to bed , and I will sit by , and watch you you will be better when you have slept . 
Montraville was glad to retire , and by pretending sleep , hide the agitation of his mind from her penetrating eye . 
Virtue never appears so amiable as when reaching forth her hand to raise a fallen sister . 
Make yourself happy , and be certain of the unalterable friendship of MONTRAVILLE . 
Montraville is no longer interested in thy happiness and shame , remorse , and disappointed love will henceforth be thy only attendants . 
He certainly cannot be so base as to leave me , said she , and in stiling himself my friend does he not promise to protect me . 
I will not torment myself with these causeless fears I will place a confidence in his honour and sure he will not be so unjust as to abuse it . 
Just as she had by this manner of reasoning brought her mind to some tolerable degree of composure , she was surprised by a visit from Belcour . 
If I can once convince her that she has a rival , said he , she will listen to my passion if it is only to revenge his slights . 
Belcour knew but little of the female heart and what he did know was only of those of loose and dissolute lives . 
He never imagined that a gentle , generous female heart , once tenderly attached , when treated with unkindness might break , but would never harbour a thought of revenge . 
His visit was not long , but before he went he fixed a scorpion in the heart of Charlotte , whose venom embittered every future hour of her life . 
We will now return for a moment to Colonel Crayton . 
Mrs. Beauchamp was mild and engaging she loved not the hurry and bustle of a city , and had prevailed on her husband to take a house a few miles from New York . 
But an accident soon happened which made her resolve to brave even the scoffs of the world , rather than not enjoy the heavenly satisfaction of comforting a desponding fellow creature . 
Mrs. Beauchamp was an early riser . 
'Tis poor Charlotte ! said Mrs. Beauchamp , the pellucid drop of humanity stealing down her cheek . 
Captain Beauchamp was alarmed at her emotion . 
Oh ! what a glorious reflexion would it be for me could I be the happy instrument of restoring her . 
Her heart may not be depraved , Beauchamp . 
Exalted woman ! cried Beauchamp , embracing her , how dost thou rise every moment in my esteem . 
Follow the impulse of thy generous heart , my Emily . 
Teach me to feel another's woe , To hide the fault I see , That mercy I to others show , That mercy show to me . 
WHEN Mrs. Beauchamp was dressed , she began to feel embarrassed at the thought of beginning an acquaintance with Charlotte , and was distressed how to make the first visit . 
I cannot go without some introduction , said she , it will look so like impertinent curiosity . 
At length recollecting herself , she stepped into the garden , and gathering a few fine cucumbers , took them in her hand by way of apology for her visit . 
A glow of conscious shame vermillioned Charlotte's face as Mrs. Beauchamp entered . 
I have taken the liberty to bring you a few cucumbers , for I observed you had none in your garden . 
Charlotte , though naturally polite and well bred , was so confused she could hardly speak . 
Her kind visitor endeavoured to relieve her by not noticing her embarrassment . 
I am come , Madam , continued she , to request you will spend the day with me . 
I shall be alone and , as we are both strangers in this country , we may hereafter be extremely happy in each other's friendship . 
Your friendship , Madam , said Charlotte blushing , is an honour to all who are favoured with it . 
Mrs. Beauchamp guessed the source from whence those tears flowed . 
Oh Madam ! cried Charlotte , I have forfeited the good opinion of all my friends I have forsaken them , and undone myself . 
She then arose , and bade her good morning . 
When Charlotte had finished , she gave her a little time to collect her scattered spirits , and then asked her if she had never written to her friends . 
Mrs. Beauchamp endeavoured to sooth her . 
She then turned the conversation , and Charlotte having taken a cup of tea , wished her benevolent friend a good evening . 
Oh ! never , never ! whilst I have existence , will the agony of that moment be erased from my memory . 
It seemed like the separation of soul and body . 
I locked my sorrows in my own bosom , and bore my injuries in silence . 
Extatic joy pervades my soul I reach my arms to catch your dear embraces the motion chases the illusive dream I wake to real misery . 
Shocking as these reflexions are , I have yet one more dreadful than the rest . 
Oh my bleeding heart , I shall bring a poor little helpless creature , heir to infamy and shame . 
But sure you cannot refuse to protect my innocent infant it partakes not of its mother's guilt . 
Oh my father , oh beloved mother , now do I feel the anguish I inflicted on your hearts recoiling with double force upon my own . 
And now , dear friends of my soul , kind guardians of my infancy , farewell . 
I feel I never more must hope to see you the anguish of my heart strikes at the strings of life , and in a short time I shall be at rest . 
Oh could I but receive your blessing and forgiveness before I died , it would smooth my passage to the peaceful grave , and be a blessed foretaste of a happy eternity . 
I beseech you , curse me not , my adored parents , but let a tear of pity and pardon fall to the memory of your lost CHARLOTTE . 
A MAN MAY SMILE , AND SMILE , AND BE A VILLAIN . 
WHILE Charlotte was enjoying some small degree of comfort in the consoling friendship of Mrs. Beauchamp , Montraville was advancing rapidly in his affection towards Miss Franklin . 
Montraville saw with pleasure he was not indifferent to her , but a spark of honour which animated his bosom would not suffer him to take advantage of her partiality . 
He communicated his uneasiness to Belcour it was the very thing this pretended friend had wished . 
Oh my good sentimental friend , said Belcour , do you imagine no body has a right to provide for the brat but yourself . 
Sure , said he , you cannot mean to insinuate that Charlotte is false . 
I don't insinuate it , said Belcour , I know it . 
Montraville turned pale as ashes . 
Then there is no faith in woman , said he . 
He opened the door , and the first object that met his eyes was Charlotte asleep on the bed , and Belcour by her side . 
Death and distraction , said he , stamping , this is too much . 
Rise , villain , and defend yourself . 
Belcour sprang from the bed . 
Treacherous , infamous girl , said he , can you ask ? How came he here ? pointing to Belcour . 
As heaven is my witness , replied she weeping , 'I do not know . 
I have not seen him for these three weeks . 
Then you confess he sometimes visits you ? He came sometimes by your desire . 
'Tis false I never desired him to come , and you know I did not but mark me , Charlotte , from this instant our connexion is at an end . 
Let Belcour , or any other of your favoured lovers , take you and provide for you I have done with you for ever . 
He was then going to leave her but starting wildly from the bed , she threw herself on her knees before him , protesting her innocence and entreating him not to leave her . 
Oh Montraville , said she , kill me , for pity's sake kill me , but do not doubt my fidelity . 
Do not leave me in this horrid situation for the sake of your unborn child , oh ! spurn not the wretched mother from you . 
Charlotte , said he , with a firm voice , I shall take care that neither you nor your child want any thing in the approaching painful hour but we meet no more . 
Belcour cast on Montraville a smile of contempt it irritated him almost to madness he broke from the feeble arms of the distressed girl she shrieked and fell prostrate on the floor . 
Montraville instantly left the house and returned hastily to the city . 
She had not long been lain down , when Belcour arrived , for he took every opportunity of visiting her , and striving to awaken her resentment against Montraville . 
He then left a polite , tender note for Charlotte , and returned to New York . 
Why how now , whining , pining lover ? said he , clapping him on the shoulder . 
Belcour , said he , you have injured me in a tender point . 
Prithee , Jack , replied Belcour , do not make a serious matter of it how could I refuse the girl's advances ? and thank heaven she is not your wife . 
True , said Montraville but she was innocent when I first knew her . 
It was I seduced her , Belcour . 
Had it not been for me , she had still been virtuous and happy in the affection and protection of her family . 
Oh that cursed French woman , added he with vehemence , had it not been for her , I might have been happy He paused . 
With Julia Franklin , said Belcour . 
I am a seducer , a mean , ungenerous seducer of unsuspecting innocence . 
At that instant Julia Franklin passed the window , leaning on her uncle's arm . 
He soon overtook her , and offering her his arm , they sauntered to pleasant but unfrequented walks . 
Belcour drew Mr. Franklin on one side and entered into a political discourse they walked faster than the young people , and Belcour by some means contrived entirely to lose sight of them . 
Julia was leaning on his arm he took her hand in his , and pressing it tenderly , sighed deeply , but continued silent . 
I am sorry , she replied , that you have any cause of inquietude . 
I am sure if you were as happy as you deserve , and as all your friends wish you She hesitated . 
Esteem , my lovely Julia , said he passionately , is but a poor cold word . 
I would if I dared , if I thought I merited your attention but no , I must not honour forbids . 
I am beneath your notice , Julia , I am miserable and cannot hope to be otherwise . 
Alas ! said Julia , I pity you . 
Oh thou condescending charmer , said he , 'how that sweet word chears my sad heart . 
Indeed if you knew all , you would pity but at the same time I fear you would despise me . 
Just then they were again joined by Mr. Franklin and Belcour . 
It had interrupted an interesting discourse . 
They found it impossible to converse on indifferent subjects , and proceeded home in silence . 
The sad silence that ensued was interrupted by a loud rap at the door . 
In a moment a servant entered with a letter in his hand . 
Mrs. Temple took it from him she cast her eyes upon the superscription she knew the writing . 
'Tis Charlotte , said she , eagerly breaking the seal , she has not quite forgot us . 
Mr. Temple attempted to read it aloud , but frequently paused to give vent to his tears . 
My poor deluded child , said he , when he had finished . 
Oh , shall we not forgive the dear penitent ? said Mrs. Temple . 
We must , we will , my love she is willing to return , and 'tis our duty to receive her . 
Yes , we will receive her , said Mr. Temple we will endeavour to heal her wounded spirit , and speak peace and comfort to her agitated soul . 
I will write to her to return immediately . 
Cannot we go and conduct her home , my love ? continued she , laying her hand on his arm . 
My father will surely forgive our absence if we go to bring home his darling . 
The struggle in the bosom of Mrs. Temple between maternal and conjugal tenderness was long and painful . 
If she should chuse to remain under your protection , be kind to her , Belcour , I conjure you . 
I will write a letter to her , which you may deliver when I am gone , as I shall go to St . 
Eustatia the day after my union with Julia , who will accompany me . 
He took up the pen and began to write , but words were denied him . 
Adieu , Charlotte could you still find charms in a life of unoffend ing innocence , return to your parents you shall never want the means of support both for yourself and child . 
Oh ! gracious heaven ! may that child be entirely free from the vices of its father and the weakness of its mother . 
After he had sealed this letter he threw himself on the bed , and enjoyed a few hours repose . 
Early in the morning Belcour tapped at his door he arose hastily , and prepared to meet his Julia at the altar . 
Pensive she mourn'd , and hung her languid head , Like a fair lily overcharg'd with dew . 
How often did the poor mourner wish for the consoling presence of the benevolent Mrs. Beauchamp . 
If she were here , she would cry , she would certainly comfort me , and sooth the distraction of my soul . 
She was sitting one afternoon , wrapped in these melancholy reflexions , when she was interrupted by the entrance of Belcour . 
When he entered the room where Charlotte was sitting , he assumed the look of tender , consolatory friendship . 
And how does my lovely Charlotte ? said he , taking her hand I fear you are not so well as I could wish . 
You are not happy , Charlotte , said he , with a look of well dissembled sorrow . 
You think too meanly of yourself , Miss Temple there is no one who would dare to treat you with contempt au who have the pleasure of knowing you must admire and esteem . 
Oh never ! never ! cried Charlotte , emphatically the virtuous part of my sex will scorn me , and I will never associate with infamy . 
Here her tears stopped her utterance . 
Ah no , said she . 
I fear I shall never hear from him again . 
He has been for some time past greatly attached to one Miss Franklin , a pleasing lively girl , with a large fortune . 
She may be richer , may be handsomer , cried Charlotte , but cannot love him so well . 
Oh may she beware of his art , and not trust him too far as I have done . 
He addresses her publicly , said he , and it was rumoured they were to be married before he sailed for Eustatia , whither his company is ordered . 
I fear , said Belcour , he can be that villain . 
Well then , my dear girl , said he , deceived by her appearance , they were married on Thursday , and yesterday morning they sailed for Eustatia . 
She shrieked , and Belcour sprang forward just in time to prevent her falling to the floor . 
Alarming faintings now succeeded each other , and she was conveyed to her bed , from whence she earnestly prayed she might never more arise . 
Belcour staid with her that night , and in the morning found her in a high fever . 
But softly , gentle fair one I pray you throw it not aside till you have perused the whole mayhap you may find something therein to repay you for the trouble . 
Methinks I see a sarcastic smile sit on your countenance . 
Yes , my young friends , the tear of compassion shall fall for the fate of Charlotte , while the name of La Rue shall be detested and despised . 
For Charlotte , the soul melts with sympathy for La Rue , it feels nothing but horror and contempt . 
I will for once oblige you I will for once follow her to midnight revels , balls , and scenes of gaiety , for in such was she constantly engaged . 
Colonel Crayton was a domestic man . 
Among the number who paid their devotions at her shrine , she singled one , a young Ensign of mean birth , indifferent education , and weak intellects . 
How such a man came into the army , we hardly know to account for , and how he afterwards rose to posts of honour is likewise strange and wonderful . 
But we may form a thousand conjectures on this subject , and yet never hit on the right . 
But to return to Mrs. Crayton this young man , whom I shall distinguish by the name of Corydon , was the reigning favourite of her heart . 
When she heard of his marriage , she smiling said , so there's an end of Madam Charlotte's hopes . 
Indeed , Madam , said poor Charlotte in a tremulous accent , I am at a loss what to do . 
I don't ask for no more nor my right , and nobody shall dare for to go for to hinder me of it . 
Oh I wish I could see the day when all such cattle were obliged to work hard and eat little it's only what they deserve . 
Father of mercy , cried Charlotte , I acknowledge thy correction just but prepare me , I beseech thee , for the portion of misery thou may'st please to lay upon me . 
Charlotte bowed her head in silence but the anguish of her heart was too great to permit her to articulate a single word . 
And what is friendship but a name , A charm that lulls to sleep , A shade that follows wealth and fame , But leaves the wretch to weep . 
To you I sue , to you I look for pity and relief . 
A gleam of joy breaks in on my benighted soul while I reflect that you cannot , will not refuse your protection to the heart broken . 
I hope , Sir , your prejudices are now removed in regard to the probability of my story ? Oh they are . 
Well then , with your leave , I will proceed . 
In this situation she reached the city , and enquired of a foot soldier whom she met , the way to Colonel Crayton's . 
Gracious heaven , cried Charlotte , is Montraville unjust then to none but me . 
The soldier now shewed her Colonel Crayton's door , and , with a beating heart , she knocked for admission . 
WHEN the door was opened , Charlotte , in a voice rendered scarcely articulate , through cold and the extreme agitation of her mind , demanded whether Mrs. Crayton was at home . 
Take up this letter , said Charlotte tell her the unhappy writer of it waits in her hall for an answer . 
The tremulous accent , the tearful eye , must have moved any heart not composed of adamant . 
The man took the letter from the poor suppliant , and hastily ascended the stair case . 
A letter , Madam , said he , presenting it to his lady an immediate answer is required . 
Mrs. Crayton glanced her eye carelessly over the contents . 
I'm sorry , but one can't relieve every body . 
The servant bowed , and heavily returned with this chilling message to Charlotte . 
Surely , said she , Mrs. Crayton has not read my letter . 
Go , my good friend , pray go back to her tell her it is Charlotte Temple who requests beneath her hospitable roof to find shelter from the inclemency of the season . 
Prithee , don't plague me , man , cried Mrs. Crayton impatiently , as the servant advanced something in behalf of the unhappy girl . 
I tell you I don't know her . 
not know me , not remember the ruined Charlotte Temple , who , but for you , perhaps might still have been innocent , still have been happy . 
Oh ! La Rue , this is beyond every thing I could have believed possible . 
Upon my honour , Miss , replied the unfeeling woman with the utmost effrontery , this is a most unaccountable address it is beyond my comprehension . 
John , continued she , turning to the servant , the young woman is certainly out of her senses do pray take her away , she terrifies me to death . 
The kneeling figure of Charlotte in her affecting situation might have moved the heart of a stoic to compassion but Mrs. Crayton remained inflexible . 
I can at least die here , said Charlotte , I feel I cannot long survive this dreadful conflict . 
Father of mercy , here let me finish my existence . 
Her agonizing sensations overpowered her , and she fell senseless on the floor . 
Take her away , said Mrs. Crayton , she will really frighten me into hysterics take her away I say this instant . 
And where must I take the poor creature ? said the servant with a voice and look of compassion . 
Any where , cried she hastily , only don't let me ever see her again . 
I declare she has flurried me so I shan't be myself again this fortnight . 
John , assisted by his fellow servant , raised and carried her down stairs . 
Poor soul , said he , you shall not lay in the street this night . 
They placed her in a chair and the benevolent man , assisted by one of his comrades , carried her to the place where his wife and children lived . 
A surgeon was sent for he bled her , she gave signs of returning life , and before the dawn gave birth to a female infant . 
Save me save me from her frown . 
I dare not indeed I dare not speak to her . 
Such were the dreadful images that haunted her distracted mind , and nature was sinking fast under the dreadful malady which medicine had no power to remove . 
I will endeavour to interest her in this poor girl's behalf , she wants the soothing balm of friendly consolation we may perhaps save her we will try at least . 
Heaven forbid that I should be deaf to the calls of humanity . 
Come we will go this instant . 
Then seizing the doctor's arm , they sought the habitation that contained the dying Charlotte . 
WHICH PEOPLE VOID OF FEELING NEED NOT READ . 
WHEN Mrs. Beauchamp entered the apartment of the poor sufferer , she started back with horror . 
A faint sickness came over her . 
She then made an effort to get out of bed but being prevented , her frenzy again returned , and she raved with the greatest wildness and incoherence . 
Being asked how she found herself , she replied Why better , much better , doctor . 
I hope now I have but little more to suffer . 
I had last night a few hours sleep , and when I awoke recovered the full power of recollection . 
I am quite sensible of my weakness I feel I have but little longer to combat with the shafts of affliction . 
On his arrival she joined fervently in the pious office , frequently mentioning her ingratitude to her parents as what lay most heavy at her heart . 
A man in appearance about forty , presented himself , and asked for Mrs. Beauchamp . 
That is my name , Sir , said she . 
Oh then , my dear Madam , cried he , tell me where I may find my poor , ruined , but repentant child . 
Lead , lead me to her , that I may bless her , and then lie down and die . 
The ardent manner in which he uttered these words occasioned him to raise his voice . 
It caught the ear of Charlotte she knew the beloved sound and uttering a loud shriek , she sprang forward as Mr. Temple entered the room . 
Nature could support no more , and they both sunk lifeless into the arms of the attendants . 
Every eye gave testimony of what each heart felt but all were silent . 
When Charlotte recovered , she found herself supported in her father's arms . 
She cast on him a most expressive look , but was unable to speak . 
A reviving cordial was administered . 
She then asked in a low voice , for her child it was brought to her she put it in her father's arms . 
He found him immersed in dissipation , and could gain no other intelligence than that Charlotte had left him , and that he knew not what was become of her . 
I cannot believe it possible , said Montraville , that a mind once so pure as Charlotte Temple's , should so suddenly become the mansion of vice . 
He immediately went into the country , to the house where he had left Charlotte . 
After much enquiry he at length found the servant girl who had lived with her . 
Tortured almost to madness by this shocking account , he returned to the city , but , before he reached it , the evening was drawing to a close . 
In entering the town he was obliged to pass several little huts , the residence of poor women who supported themselves by washing the cloaths of the officers and soldiers . 
Hold , hold , one moment , said he . 
Close not the grave of the injured Charlotte Temple till I have taken vengeance on her murderer . 
Rash young man , said Mr. Temple , who art thou that thus disturbest the last mournful rites of the dead , and rudely breakest in upon the grief of an afflicted father . 
If thou art the father of Charlotte Temple , said he , gazing at him with mingled horror and amazement if thou art her father I am Montraville . 
Then falling on his knees , he continued Here is my bosom . 
I bare it to receive the stroke I merit . 
Strike strike now , and save me from the misery of reflexion . 
Alas ! said Mr. Temple , if thou wert the seducer of my child , thy own reflexions be thy punishment . 
I wrest not the power from the hand of omnipotence . 
Look on that little heap of earth , there hast thou buried the only joy of a fond father . 
Look at it often and may thy heart feel such true sorrow as shall merit the mercy of heaven . 
Belcour was intoxicated Montraville impetuous they fought , and the sword of the latter entered the heart of his adversary . 
He fell , and expired almost instantly . 
Montraville had received a slight wound and overcome with the agitation of his mind and loss of blood , was carried in a state of insensibility to his distracted wife . 
A dangerous illness and obstinate delirium ensued , during which he raved incessantly for Charlotte but a strong constitution , and the tender assiduities of Julia , in time overcame the disorder . 
SHORTLY after the interment of his daughter , Mr. Temple , with his dear little charge and her nurse , set forward for England . 
It would be impossible to do justice to the meeting scene between him , his Lucy , and her aged father . 
Every heart of sensibility can easily conceive their feelings . 
They had been walking one evening , when on their return they found a poor wretch sitting on the steps of the door . 
She attempted to rise as they approached , but from extreme weakness was unable , and after several fruitless efforts fell back in a fit . 
Come not near me , Madam , I shall contaminate you . 
I am the viper that stung your peace . 
I am the woman who turned the poor Charlotte out to perish in the street . 
Heaven have mercy ! I see her now , continued she looking at Lucy such , such was the fair bud of innocence that my vile arts blasted ere it was half blown . 
It was in vain that Mr. and Mrs. Temple intreated her to be composed and to take some refreshment . 
Greatly as Mr. Temple had reason to detest Mrs. Crayton , he could not behold her in this distress without some emotions of pity . 
