That which is commonly called a long sight , perceives in a prospect innumerable features and bearings non existent to a short sighted person . 
I will not offer any plea on his behalf to so powerful and genteel a body , but will make a remark on the character of Jonas Chuzzlewit . 
What is substantially true of families in this respect , is true of a whole commonwealth . 
As we sow , we reap . 
I am happy to believe that my confidence in that great nation was not misplaced . 
When this book was first published , I was given to understand , by some authorities , that the Watertoast Association and eloquence were beyond all bounds of belief . 
In all my writings , I hope I have taken every available opportunity of showing the want of sanitary improvements in the neglected dwellings of the poor . 
Mrs. Sarah Gamp was , four and twenty years ago , a fair representation of the hired attendant on the poor in sickness . 
The hospitals of London were , in many respects , noble Institutions in others , very defective . 
And this I will do and cause to be done , not in mere love and thankfulness , but because I regard it as an act of plain justice and honour . 
I said these words with the greatest earnestness that I could lay upon them , and I repeat them in print here with equal earnestness . 
So long as this book shall last , I hope that they will form a part of it , and will be fairly read as inseparable from my experiences and impressions of America . 
There can be no doubt that at least one Chuzzlewit came over with William the Conqueror . 
Surely there can be no reasonable doubt that this was the Spanish lady , the mother of Chuzzlewit Fawkes . 
remaining unconvinced by these presumptive proofs . 
, a dark lantern of undoubted antiquity rendered still more interesting by being , in shape and pattern , extremely like such as are in use at the present day . 
a strong impression on his mind , and he was in the habit of repeating them very often . 
The just interpretation which they bear , and the conclusion to which they lead , are triumphant and irresistible . 
The slight , the very slight , confusion apparent in these expressions is manifest , and is ludicrously easy of correction . 
And HE was Guy Fawkes . 
Here we have a remark at once consistent , clear , natural , and in strict accordance with the character of the speaker . 
affected not only in historical prose but in imaginative poetry , by the exercise of a little ingenious labour on the part of a commentator . 
It has been said that there is no instance , in modern times , of a Chuzzlewit having been found on terms of intimacy with the Great . 
But here again the sneering detractors who weave such miserable figments from their malicious brains , are stricken dumb by evidence . 
would appear to have borrowed or otherwise possessed himself of 'Do not be angry , I have parted with it to my uncle . 
On another occasion he expresses himself in a similar manner with regard to a child's mug which had been entrusted to him to get repaired . 
On another occasion he says , 'I have bestowed upon that irresistible uncle of mine everything I ever possessed . 
This gentleman's patronage and influence must have been very extensive , for his nephew writes , 'His interest is too high' 'It is too much' 'It is tremendous' and the like . 
It is needless to multiply instances of the high and lofty station , and the vast importance of the Chuzzlewits , at different periods . 
A moment , and its glory was no more . 
An evening wind uprose too , and the slighter branches cracked and rattled as they moved , in skeleton dances , to its moaning music . 
Then the village forge came out in all its bright importance . 
The gleaming iron , in its emulation , sparkled too , and shed its red hot gems around profusely . 
'I see you , cried Miss Pecksniff , to the ideal inflicter of a runaway knock . 
'You'll catch it , sir ! Still Mr Pecksniff , perhaps from having caught it already , said nothing . 
'You're round the corner now , cried Miss Pecksniff . 
to a dozen or so , might in one sense have been said to be coming round the corner , and just turning it . 
raised himself on one elbow , and sneezed . 
'That voice ! cried Miss Pecksniff . 
'My parent ! At this exclamation , another Miss Pecksniff bounced out of the parlour and the two Miss Pecksniffs , with many incoherent expressions , dragged Mr Pecksniff into an upright posture . 
'Pa ! they cried in concert . 
'That'll do , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'He's come to himself ! cried the youngest Miss Pecksniff . 
'He speaks again ! exclaimed the eldest . 
With these joyful words they kissed Mr Pecksniff on either cheek and bore him into the house . 
Miss Pecksniff sat upon a stool because of her simplicity and innocence , which were very great , very great . 
Miss Pecksniff sat upon a stool because she was all girlishness , and playfulness , and wildness , and kittenish buoyancy . 
She was the most arch and at the same time the most artless creature , was the youngest Miss Pecksniff , that you can possibly imagine . 
It was her great charm . 
She wore it in a crop , a loosely flowing crop , which had so many rows of curls in it , that the top row was only one curl . 
, was the youngest Miss Pecksniff ! Mr Pecksniff was a moral man a grave man , a man of noble sentiments and speech and he had had her christened Mercy . 
Mercy ! oh , what a charming name for such a pure souled Being as the youngest Miss Pecksniff ! Her sister's name was Charity . 
They no more thought or dreamed of it than Mr Pecksniff did . 
Nature played them off against each other THEY had no hand in it , the two Miss Pecksniffs . 
It has been remarked that Mr Pecksniff was a moral man . 
Perhaps there never was a more moral man than Mr Pecksniff , especially in his conversation and correspondence . 
It was once said of him by a homely admirer , that he had a Fortunatus's purse of good sentiments in his inside . 
He was a most exemplary man fuller of virtuous precept than a copy book . 
His very throat was moral . 
You saw a good deal of it . 
, and there it lay , a valley between two jutting heights of collar , serene and whiskerless before you . 
It seemed to say , on the part of Mr Pecksniff , 'There is no deception , ladies and gentlemen , all is peace , a holy calm pervades me . 
So did his person , which was sleek though free from corpulency . 
So did his manner , which was soft and oily . 
bore this inscription , 'PECKSNIFF , ARCHITECT , to which Mr Pecksniff , on his cards of business , added , AND LAND SURVEYOR . 
His genius lay in ensnaring parents and guardians , and pocketing premiums . 
'And eggs , said Mr Pecksniff , 'even they have their moral . 
See how they come and go ! Every pleasure is transitory . 
We can't even eat , long . 
If we indulge in harmless fluids , we get the dropsy if in exciting liquids , we get drunk . 
What a soothing reflection is that ! 'Don't say WE get drunk , Pa , urged the eldest Miss Pecksniff . 
'When I say we , my dear , returned her father , 'I mean mankind in general the human race , considered as a body , and not as individuals . 
There is nothing personal in morality , my love . 
'Which , cried Mr Pecksniff after a pause , during which he seemed to have been casting about for a new moral , and not quite successfully , 'which is also very soothing . 
Mercy , my dear , stir the fire and throw up the cinders . 
The young lady obeyed , and having done so , resumed her stool , reposed one arm upon her father's knee , and laid her blooming cheek upon it . 
Miss Charity drew her chair nearer the fire , as one prepared for conversation , and looked towards her father . 
A new inmate will very shortly come among us . 
'A youth , papa ? asked Charity . 
'Ye es , a youth , said Mr Pecksniff . 
are not unmindful of their moral responsibilities . 
'Oh Pa ! cried Mercy , holding up her finger archly . 
'See advertisement ! 'Playful playful warbler , said Mr Pecksniff . 
And he did this so boldly , and in such an imposing manner , that he would sometimes stagger the wisest people with his eloquence , and make them gasp again . 
His enemies asserted , by the way , that a strong trustfulness in sounds and forms was the master key to Mr Pecksniff's character . 
'Is he handsome , Pa ? inquired the younger daughter . 
'Silly Merry ! said the eldest Merry being fond for Mercy . 
'What is the premium , Pa ? tell us that . 
'He is well looking , said Mr Pecksniff , slowly and distinctly 'well looking enough . 
I do not positively expect any immediate premium with him . 
'But what of that ! said Mr Pecksniff , still smiling at the fire . 
'There is disinterestedness in the world , I hope ? We are not all arrayed in two opposite ranks the OFfensive and the DEfensive . 
Some few there are who walk between who help the needy as they go and take no part with either side . 
Umph ! There was something in these morsels of philanthropy which reassured the sisters . 
They exchanged glances , and brightened very much . 
If our inclinations are but good and open hearted , let us gratify them boldly , though they bring upon us Loss instead of Profit . 
that the younger one was moved to sit upon his knee forthwith , put her fair arms round his neck , and kiss him twenty times . 
During the whole of this affectionate display she laughed to a most immoderate extent in which hilarious indulgence even the prudent Cherry joined . 
'Tut , tut , said Mr Pecksniff , pushing his latest born away and running his fingers through his hair , as he resumed his tranquil face . 
'What folly is this ! Let us take heed how we laugh without reason lest we cry with it . 
What is the domestic news since yesterday ? John Westlock is gone , I hope ? 'Indeed , no , said Charity . 
'And why not ? returned her father . 
And his box was packed , I know for I saw it , in the morning , standing in the hall . 
'He slept last night at the Dragon , returned the young lady , 'and had Mr Pinch to dine with him . 
They spent the evening together , and Mr Pinch was not home till very late . 
I am not quite sure that this was delicate in Mr Pinch . 
I am not quite sure that this was kind in Mr Pinch . 
I will go further and say , I am not quite sure that this was even ordinarily grateful in Mr Pinch . 
No , continued Mr Pecksniff . 
but Mr Pinch has disappointed me he has hurt me I think a little the worse of him on this account , but not if human nature . 
Oh , no , no ! 'Hark ! said Miss Charity , holding up her finger , as a gentle rap was heard at the street door . 
'There is the creature ! Now mark my words , he has come back with John Westlock for his box , and is going to help him to take it to the mail . 
'Come in ! cried Mr Pecksniff not severely only virtuously . 
to consider him a bad fellow by any means . 
'Pray be seated , Mr Pinch . 
Have the goodness to shut the door , Mr Pinch , if you please . 
I have not deserved this from you ! 'No , but upon my word , sir urged Pinch . 
'The less you say , Mr Pinch , interposed the other , 'the better . 
'No , but do have the goodness , sir , cried Pinch , with great earnestness , 'if you please . 
Mr Westlock , sir , going away for good and all , wishes to leave none but friends behind him . 
Mr Westlock and you , sir , had a little difference the other day you have had many little differences . 
'Little differences ! cried Charity . 
'Little differences ! echoed Mercy . 
'Come , Mr Pecksniff , he said , with a smile , 'don't let there be any ill blood between us , pray . 
I am sorry we have ever differed , and extremely sorry I have ever given you offence . 
Bear me no ill will at parting , sir . 
'I bear , answered Mr Pecksniff , mildly , 'no ill will to any man on earth . 
'I told you he didn't , said Pinch , in an undertone 'I knew he didn't ! He always says he don't . 
'Then you will shake hands , sir ? cried Westlock , advancing a step or two , and bespeaking Mr Pinch's close attention by a glance . 
'Umph ! said Mr Pecksniff , in his most winning tone . 
'You will shake hands , sir . 
'No , John , said Mr Pecksniff , with a calmness quite ethereal 'no , I will not shake hands , John . 
I had already forgiven you , even before you ceased to reproach and taunt me . 
I have embraced you in the spirit , John , which is better than shaking hands . 
'As to your forgiveness , Mr Pecksniff , said the youth , 'I'll not have it upon such terms . 
'Won't you , John ? retorted Mr Pecksniff , with a smile . 
Forgiveness is a high quality an exalted virtue far above YOUR control or influence , John . 
You cannot move me to remember any wrong you have ever done me , John . 
'Wrong ! cried the other , with all the heat and impetuosity of his age . 
I grieve to see that it is already bearing evil fruit in you . 
But I will not remember its existence . 
the heart's repose and peace of one who would have shed his dearest blood to serve him . 
The voice of Mr Pecksniff trembled as he spoke , and sobs were heard from his daughters . 
With my breast still wrung and grieved to its inmost core by the ingratitude of that person , I am proud and glad to say that I forgive him . 
I am not sure that I am equal to the trial . 
In a very short space of time , I shall have sufficient fortitude , I trust to converse with him as if these events had never happened . 
But not , said Mr Pecksniff , turning round again towards the fire , and waving his hand in the direction of the door , 'not now . 
'Bah ! cried John Westlock , with the utmost disgust and disdain the monosyllable is capable of expressing . 
Come , Pinch , it's not worth thinking of . 
I was right and you were wrong . 
That's small matter you'll be wiser another time . 
Then they took up the box between them , and sallied out to meet the mail . 
That fleet conveyance passed , every night , the corner of a lane at some distance towards which point they bent their steps . 
For some minutes they walked along in silence , until at length young Westlock burst into a loud laugh , and at intervals into another , and another . 
Still there was no response from his companion . 
'I'll tell you what , Pinch ! he said abruptly , after another lengthened silence 'You haven't half enough of the devil in you . 
Half enough ! You haven't any . 
'Well ! said Pinch with a sigh , 'I don't know , I'm sure . 
It's compliment to say so . 
If I haven't , I suppose , I'm all the better for it . 
'All the better ! repeated his companion tartly 'All the worse , you mean to say . 
How grieved he was ! 'HE grieved ! returned the other . 
'Why didn't you observe that the tears were almost starting out of his eyes ! cried Pinch . 
Now , you know that , John . 
'You a great eater ! retorted his companion , with no less indignation than before . 
'Besides , whether I am or no , he added , 'that has little or nothing to do with his thinking me ungrateful . 
'Do you think he don't know that ? returned the other scornfully . 
'In the first place , said Pinch , 'he took me as his pupil for much less than he asked . 
'Well , rejoined his friend , perfectly unmoved by this instance of generosity . 
'What in the second place ? 'What in the second place ? cried Pinch , in a sort of desperation , 'why , everything in the second place . 
My poor old grandmother died happy to think that she had put me with such an excellent man . 
All this , and a great deal more , is in the second place . 
motioned him to sit down beside him and laid his hand upon his shoulder . 
'I believe you are one of the best fellows in the world , he said , 'Tom Pinch . 
'Not at all , rejoined Tom . 
'If you only knew Pecksniff as well as I do , you might say it of him , indeed , and say it truly . 
'I'll say anything of him , you like , returned the other , 'and not another word to his disparagement . 
'It's for my sake , then not his , I am afraid , said Pinch , shaking his head gravely . 
'For whose you please , Tom , so that it does please you . 
Not he , Tom ! 'No , said Tom , looking into his friend's face , as if he were a little doubtful of his meaning . 
'So I say , returned the youth , 'of course he never did . 
HE gets no credit from you , Tom , not he . 
'Why , of course he don't , said Pinch , gazing at his friend with a more troubled aspect than before . 
'Madness ! returned young Westlock . 
I shall write to you from London , mind ! 'Yes , said Pinch . 
I can hardly believe you're going . 
It seems , now , but yesterday that you came . 
Good bye ! my dear old fellow ! John Westlock returned his parting words with no less heartiness of manner , and sprung up to his seat upon the roof . 
Off went the mail at a canter down the dark road the lamps gleaming brightly , and the horn awakening all the echoes , far and wide . 
Indeed it must be conceded to the whole brood of dragons of modern times , that they have made a great advance in civilisation and refinement . 
, than for rudely insisting on their company without any reference to their inclinations , as they are known to have done in days of yore . 
Of all the five hundred proposals for his relief which the good woman poured out in less than half an hour , he would entertain but one . 
That was that he should go to bed . 
And it was in the preparation of his bed and the arrangement of his chamber , that all the stir was made in the room behind the Dragon . 
But neither the apprehensions which he plainly entertained , at times , for his life , nor the great pain he underwent , influenced his resolution in the least degree . 
He would have no person sent for . 
The worse he grew , the more rigid and inflexible he became in his determination . 
, though he quitted it on foot , and died upon the threshold of the door . 
Of course it followed , as a necessary result of his being wanted , that he was not at home . 
From this last mentioned secret errand , the messenger returned with no better news than from the first Mr Pecksniff was not at home . 
By degrees , he ceased to suffer at all though his exhaustion was occasionally so great that it suggested hardly less alarm than his actual endurance had done . 
whom you wouldn't like half as well , or admire half as much , as the beaming hostess of the Blue Dragon . 
There were no staring portraits to remonstrate with you for being lazy no round eyed birds upon the curtains , disgustingly wide awake , and insufferably prying . 
Even the old stuffed fox upon the top of the wardrobe was devoid of any spark of vigilance , for his glass eye had fallen out , and he slumbered as he stood . 
The wandering attention of the mistress of the Blue Dragon roved to these things but twice or thrice , and then for but an instant at a time . 
This she had abundantly shown , but now , in her tending of the sick gentleman . 
She was short in stature and her figure was slight , as became her years but all the charms of youth and maidenhood set it off , and clustered on her gentle brow . 
Her face was very pale , in part no doubt from recent agitation . 
Of all this , and much more , the rosy landlady of the Blue Dragon took as accurate note and observation as only woman can take of woman . 
'What a Providence ! said the landlady of the Dragon , 'that you had the prescriptions and the medicines with you , miss ! 'They are intended for such an emergency . 
We never travel without them . 
'Oh ! thought the hostess , 'then we are in the habit of travelling , and of travelling together . 
She was so conscious of expressing this in her face , that meeting the young lady's eyes immediately afterwards , and being a very honest hostess , she was rather confused . 
He he is not my grandfather . 
'Father , I should have said , returned the hostess , sensible of having made an awkward mistake . 
'Nor my father' said the young lady . 
'Nor , she added , slightly smiling with a quick perception of what the landlady was going to add , 'Nor my uncle . 
'When I told you we were not related , said the other mildly , but not without confusion on her own part , 'I meant not in any way . 
Did you call me , Martin ? 'Call you ? cried the old man , looking quickly up , and hurriedly drawing beneath the coverlet the paper on which he had been writing . 
She had moved a pace or two towards the bed , but stopped immediately , and went no farther . 
'No , he repeated , with a petulant emphasis . 
, not at all complimentary to the voice of the old gentleman . 
What else have I to look for ? 'Oh dear , no . 
Oh no , I'm sure , said the good tempered landlady , rising , and going towards him . 
'Be of better cheer , sir . 
These are only sick fancies . 
'What are only sick fancies ? he retorted . 
'Dear heart alive , there is no harm in the word , sir , if it is an old one . 
Folks in good health have their fancies , too , and strange ones , every day . 
Harmless as this speech appeared to be , it acted on the traveller's distrust , like oil on fire . 
'Ah ! you begin too soon , he said , in so low a voice that he seemed to be thinking it , rather than addressing her . 
'But you lose no time . 
You do your errand , and you earn your fee . 
'Come , he said , 'tell me who is it ? Being here , it is not very hard for me to guess , you may suppose . 
'Martin , interposed the young lady , laying her hand upon his arm 'reflect how short a time we have been in this house , and that even your name is unknown here . 
'There ! said Mrs Lupin for in that name the Blue Dragon was licensed to furnish entertainment , both to man and beast . 
'Now , you will be well again , sir . 
You forgot , for the moment , that there were none but friends here . 
'She has no temptation to be otherwise , cried the old man , like one whose hope and confidence were utterly exhausted . 
There , let me try to sleep . 
Leave the candle where it is . 
As they retired from the bed , he drew forth the writing which had occupied him so long , and holding it in the flame of the taper burnt it to ashes . 
That done , he extinguished the light , and turning his face away with a heavy sigh , drew the coverlet about his head , and lay quite still . 
'And I am very glad I have come , said Mr Pecksniff , 'if I can be of service . 
I am very glad I have come . 
What is the matter , Mrs Lupin ? 'A gentleman taken ill upon the road , has been so very bad upstairs , sir , said the tearful hostess . 
'A gentleman taken ill upon the road , has been so very bad upstairs , has he ? repeated Mr Pecksniff . 
'He is better , and quite tranquil , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Very well ! Ve ry well ! Here again , though the statement was Mrs Lupin's and not Mr Pecksniff's , Mr Pecksniff made it his own and consoled her with it . 
It was not much when Mrs Lupin said it , but it was a whole book when Mr Pecksniff said it . 
'I observe , he seemed to say , 'and through me , morality in general remarks , that he is better and quite tranquil . 
'There must be weighty matters on his mind , though , said the hostess , shaking her head , 'for he talks , sir , in the strangest way you ever heard . 
He is far from easy in his thoughts , and wants some proper advice from those whose goodness makes it worth his having . 
'Then , said Mr Pecksniff , 'he is the sort of customer for me . 
But though he said this in the plainest language , he didn't speak a word . 
He only shook his head disparagingly of himself too . 
'I am afraid , sir , continued the landlady , first looking round to assure herself that there was nobody within hearing , and then looking down upon the floor . 
as if it were a widow's back , or an orphan's back , or an enemy's back , or a back that any less excellent man would have suffered to be cold . 
'Your suspicion , Mrs Lupin , said Mr Pecksniff gravely , 'is very natural . 
'Your suspicion , Mrs Lupin , he repeated , 'is very natural , and I have no doubt correct . 
I will wait upon these travellers . 
'Shall I knock ? asked Mrs Lupin , when they reached the chamber door . 
'No , said Mr Pecksniff , 'enter if you please . 
They went in on tiptoe or rather the hostess took that precaution for Mr Pecksniff always walked softly . 
The old gentleman was still asleep , and his young companion still sat reading by the fire . 
'I am afraid , said Mr Pecksniff , pausing at the door , and giving his head a melancholy roll , 'I am afraid that this looks artful . 
Mr Pecksniff glanced at the volume she held , and whispered Mrs Lupin again if possible , with increased despondency . 
'Yes , ma'am , he said , 'it is a good book . 
I was fearful of that beforehand . 
I am apprehensive that this is a very deep thing indeed ! 'What gentleman is this ? inquired the object of his virtuous doubts . 
'Hush ! don't trouble yourself , ma'am , said Mr Pecksniff , as the landlady was about to answer . 
I am here , as I am everywhere , I hope , in sympathy for the sick and sorry . 
Whatever objection the young lady urged to Mrs Lupin went no further , for nothing more was said to Mr Pecksniff , and Mr Pecksniff said nothing more to anybody else . 
By little and little he removed the bed clothes from about his head , and turned still more towards the side where Mr Pecksniff sat . 
There was nothing remarkable in these proceedings , except the influence they worked on Mr Pecksniff , which could hardly have been surpassed by the most marvellous of natural phenomena . 
'I am Martin Chuzzlewit , he said , bitterly 'and Martin Chuzzlewit wishes you had been hanged , before you had come here to disturb him in his sleep . 
'There ! His very first words ! cried the old man , shaking his grey head to and fro upon the pillow , and throwing up his hands . 
'In his very first words he asserts his relationship ! I knew he would they all do it ! Near or distant , blood or water , it's all one . 
'You will regret being hasty , I know you will . 
'You know ! said Martin , contemptuously . 
'Yes , retorted Mr Pecksniff . 
'Aye , aye , Mr Chuzzlewit and don't imagine that I mean to court or flatter you for nothing is further from my intention . 
Neither , sir , need you entertain the least misgiving that I shall repeat that obnoxious word which has given you so much offence already . 
'That's true enough , muttered the old man . 
I make no offer of them to you , because I know you would distrust me if I did . 
Beyond that , I am quite as indifferent to you , Mr Chuzzlewit , as you are to me . 
The old man , with increased restlessness , changed his posture several times . 
Mrs Lupin and the young lady gazed in silence at the counterpane . 
Mr Pecksniff toyed abstractedly with his eye glass , and kept his eyes shut , that he might ruminate the better . 
'Eh ? he said at last , opening them suddenly , and looking towards the bed . 
Mrs Lupin , he continued , slowly rising 'I am not aware that I can be of any service to you here . 
The gentleman is better , and you are as good a nurse as he can have . 
That it amply repaid him for his trouble , and afforded a delicious and enchanting prospect , was clear from the expression of his face . 
'You shall be gratified , said Martin . 
'Sir , I am a rich man . 
Not so rich as some suppose , perhaps , but yet wealthy . 
I am not a miser sir , though even that charge is made against me , as I hear , and currently believed . 
I have no pleasure in hoarding . 
I have no pleasure in the possession of money , The devil that we call by that name can give me nothing but unhappiness . 
It would be no description of Mr Pecksniff's gentleness of manner to adopt the common parlance , and say that he looked at this moment as if butter wouldn't melt in his mouth . 
He rather looked as if any quantity of butter might have been made out of him , by churning the milk of human kindness , as it spouted upwards from his heart . 
'For the same reason that I am not a hoarder of money , said the old man , 'I am not lavish of it . 
Some people find their gratification in storing it up and others theirs in parting with it but I have no gratification connected with the thing . 
Pain and bitterness are the only goods it ever could procure for me . 
It is a spectre walking before me through the world , and making every social pleasure hideous . 
Even you , perhaps , would rid me of a burden under which I suffer so grievously . 
But , kind stranger , said the old man , whose every feature darkened as he spoke , 'good Christian stranger , that is a main part of my trouble . 
'Aye , returned the old man , 'the test of contact with me with me . 
was , that he turned every thing he touched into gold . 
Mr Pecksniff shook his head , and said , 'You think so . 
'Oh yes , cried the old man , 'I think so ! and in your telling me I think so , I recognize the true unworldly ring of YOUR metal . 
Brother against brother , child against parent , friends treading on the faces of friends , this is the social company by whom my way has been attended . 
There are stories told they may be true or false of rich men who , in the garb of poverty , have found out virtue and rewarded it . 
They were dolts and idiots for their pains . 
They should have made the search in their own characters . 
'I forgot , cried the old man , looking at him with a keenness which the other seemed to feel , although he did not raise his eyes so as to see it . 
I forgot you were a stranger . 
For the moment you reminded me of one Pecksniff , a cousin of mine . 
For a year or more she has been my constant companion , and she is my only one . 
This is the only kind of friend I have or will have . 
Judge from such premises what a profitable hour you have spent in coming here , and leave me , to return no more . 
With these words , the old man fell slowly back upon his pillow . 
Mr Pecksniff as slowly rose , and , with a prefatory hem , began as follows 'Mr Chuzzlewit . 
Go ! interposed the other . 
I am weary of you . 
'I am sorry for that , sir , rejoined Mr Pecksniff , 'because I have a duty to discharge , from which , depend upon it , I shall not shrink . 
No , sir , I shall not shrink . 
But he constrained himself , and pointing with his finger to the door , informed him that his road lay there . 
'Thank you , said Mr Pecksniff 'I am aware of that . 
I am not surprised , sir , at anything you have told me tonight . 
It is natural , very natural , and the greater part of it was known to me before . 
While you are in your present mood I would not say so for the world . 
Here he paused for an instant , and concealed his face behind his pocket handkerchief . 
It will not do , sir , repeated Mr Pecksniff , shaking his head . 
'You may think it will do , but it won't . 
You must provide for that young man you shall provide for him you WILL provide for him . 
I believe , said Mr Pecksniff , glancing at the pen and ink , 'that in secret you have already done so . 
Bless you for doing so . 
Bless you for doing right , sir . 
Bless you for hating me . 
And good night ! So saying , Mr Pecksniff waved his right hand with much solemnity , and once more inserting it in his waistcoat , departed . 
There was emotion in his manner , but his step was firm . 
Subject to human weaknesses , he was upheld by conscience . 
He did so , at first , in pure abstraction , but they presently became the subject of his thoughts . 
, and shed many tears of admiration and delight . 
So surely as she came into the room , however , Martin feigned to fall asleep . 
His coat , in colour blue and of a military cut , was buttoned and frogged up to his chin . 
His cravat was , in hue and pattern , like one of those mantles which hairdressers are accustomed to wrap about their clients , during the progress of the professional mysteries . 
His hat had arrived at such a pass that it would have been hard to determine whether it was originally white or black . 
'You were eaves dropping at that door , you vagabond ! said this gentleman . 
What then ? 'What then , sir ? cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'What do you mean ? said Mr Pecksniff , with indignant surprise . 
'Your name is Pecksniff ? said the gentleman . 
'You behold in me , sir , one who has also an interest in that gentleman upstairs . 
'Read that , he cried , giving it to Mr Pecksniff . 
'This is addressed to Chevy Slyme , Esquire , said that gentleman . 
'You know Chevy Slyme , Esquire , I believe ? returned the stranger . 
Mr Pecksniff shrugged his shoulders as though he would say 'I know there is such a person , and I am sorry for it . 
'Very good , remarked the gentleman . 
'That is my interest and business here . 
With that he made another dive for his shirt collar and brought up a string . 
'Now , this is very distressing , my friend , said Mr Pecksniff , shaking his head and smiling composedly . 
'It is very distressing to me , to be compelled to say that you are not the person you claim to be . 
I know Mr Slyme , my friend this will not do honesty is the best policy you had better not you had indeed . 
'Stop' cried the gentleman , stretching forth his right arm , which was so tightly wedged into his threadbare sleeve that it looked like a cloth sausage . 
'Wait a bit ! He paused to establish himself immediately in front of the fire with his back towards it . 
Why ? Because it's complimentary . 
You suppose I would set myself up for Chevy Slyme . 
Sir , if there is a man on earth whom a gentleman would feel proud and honoured to be mistaken for , that man is my friend Slyme . 
But , sir , I have not the vanity to attempt to pass for Slyme . 
Any other man in the wide world , I am equal to but Slyme is , I frankly confess , a great many cuts above me . 
'I judged from this , said Mr Pecksniff , holding out the cover of the letter . 
'No doubt you did , returned the gentleman . 
'But , Mr Pecksniff , the whole thing resolves itself into an instance of the peculiarities of genius . 
Every man of true genius has his peculiarity . 
Sir , the peculiarity of my friend Slyme is , that he is always waiting round the corner . 
He is perpetually round the corner , sir . 
He is round the corner at this instant . 
Observe me , society will not be satisfied ! Mr Pecksniff coughed . 
I have taken a few notes in my poor way , of some of that man's proceedings my adopted brother , sir , which would amaze you . 
In the next place , you will give me leave to introduce myself . 
My name , sir , is Tigg . 
The name of Montague Tigg will perhaps be familiar to you , in connection with the most remarkable events of the Peninsular War ? Mr Pecksniff gently shook his head . 
'No matter , said the gentleman . 
'That man was my father , and I bear his name . 
I am consequently proud proud as Lucifer . 
I desire my friend Slyme to be present at the remainder of this conference . 
'Chiv , said Mr Tigg aloud , in the high tone of one who was not to be tampered with . 
'I shall come to that presently . 
I act upon my own responsibility , or not at all . 
'Oh , Chiv , Chiv ! added Mr Tigg , surveying his adopted brother with an air of profound contemplation after dismissing this piece of pantomime . 
'You are , upon my life , a strange instance of the little frailties that beset a mighty mind . 
Life's a riddle a most infernally hard riddle to guess , Mr Pecksniff . 
My own opinions , that like that celebrated conundrum , Why's a man in jail like a man out of jail ? there's no answer to it . 
Upon my soul and body , it's the queerest sort of thing altogether but there's no use in talking about it . 
Ha ! Ha ! With which consolatory deduction from the gloomy premises recited , Mr Tigg roused himself by a great effort , and proceeded in his former strain . 
'Now I'll tell you what it is . 
Mr Pecksniff , you're the cousin of the testator upstairs and we're the nephew I say we , meaning Chiv . 
Perhaps in all essential points you are more nearly related to him than we are . 
If so , so be it . 
But you can't get at him , neither can we . 
In the meantime , sir , he is perpetually closeted with , and pouring his whole confidence into the bosom of , a stranger . 
Now I say decisively with regard to this state of circumstances , that it won't do that it won't act that it can't be and that it must not be suffered to continue . 
to regulate his own proceedings by his own likings and dislikings , supposing they are not immoral and not irreligious . 
I may feel in my own breast , that Mr Chuzzlewit does not regard me , for instance say me with exactly that amount of Christian love which should subsist between us . 
I may feel grieved and hurt at the circumstance still I may not rush to the conclusion that Mr Chuzzlewit is wholly without a justification in all his coldnesses . 
'Why , as to that , rejoined Tigg , 'it certainly is a difficult question . 
'Undoubtedly it is a difficult question , Mr Pecksniff answered . 
As he spoke he drew himself aloft , and seemed to grow more mindful , suddenly , of the moral gulf between himself and the creature he addressed . 
'Undoubtedly it is a very difficult question . 
And I am far from feeling sure that it is a question any one is authorized to discuss . 
'You don't know that the Spottletoes are here , I suppose ? said Mr Tigg . 
'What do you mean , sir ? what Spottletoes ? asked Pecksniff , stopping abruptly on his way to the door . 
'Mr and Mrs Spottletoe , said Chevy Slyme , Esquire , speaking aloud for the first time , and speaking very sulkily shambling with his legs the while . 
'Spottletoe married my father's brother's child , didn't he ? And Mrs Spottletoe is Chuzzlewit's own niece , isn't she ? She was his favourite once . 
You may well ask what Spottletoes . 
'Now upon my sacred word ! cried Mr Pecksniff , looking upwards . 
The rapacity of these people is absolutely frightful ! 'It's not only the Spottletoes either , Tigg , said Slyme , looking at that gentleman and speaking at Mr Pecksniff . 
'Anthony Chuzzlewit and his son have got wind of it , and have come down this afternoon . 
I saw 'em not five minutes ago , when I was waiting round the corner . 
'Oh , Mammon , Mammon ! cried Mr Pecksniff , smiting his forehead . 
'So there , said Slyme , regardless of the interruption , 'are his brother and another nephew for you , already . 
Everybody who is interested feels it , sir . 
The whole family is pouring down to this place . 
The time has come when individual jealousies and interests must be forgotten for a time , sir , and union must be made against the common enemy . 
You'll find us at the Half Moon and Seven Stars in this village , at any time , and open to any reasonable proposition . 
Hem ! Chiv , my dear fellow , go out and see what sort of a night it is . 
Mr Slyme lost no time in disappearing , and it is to be presumed in going round the corner . 
Mr Tigg , planting his legs as wide apart as he could be reasonably expected by the most sanguine man to keep them , shook his head at Mr Pecksniff and smiled . 
'We must not be too hard , he said , 'upon the little eccentricities of our friend Slyme . 
You saw him whisper me ? Mr Pecksniff had seen him . 
'You heard my answer , I think ? Mr Pecksniff had heard it . 
'Five shillings , eh ? said Mr Tigg , thoughtfully . 
'Ah ! what an extraordinary fellow ! Very moderate too ! Mr Pecksniff made no answer . 
'Five shillings ! pursued Mr Tigg , musing 'and to be punctually repaid next week that's the best of it . 
You heard that ? Mr Pecksniff had not heard that . 
'No ! You surprise me ! cried Tigg . 
'That's the cream of the thing sir . 
I never knew that man fail to redeem a promise , in my life . 
You're not in want of change , are you ? 'No , said Mr Pecksniff , 'thank you . 
'Just so , returned Mr Tigg . 
'If you had been , I'd have got it for you . 
'Egad ! cried Tigg , gravely nodding his head as if some ground of objection occurred to him at that moment for the first time , 'it's very possible you may be right . 
Would you entertain the same sort of objection to lending me five shillings now ? 'Yes , I couldn't do it , indeed , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Not even half a crown , perhaps ? urged Mr Tigg . 
'Not even half a crown . 
'Why , then we come , said Mr Tigg , 'to the ridiculously small amount of eighteen pence . 
Ha ! ha ! 'And that , said Mr Pecksniff , 'would be equally objectionable . 
With which remarks he would beg leave , he said , to wish Mr Pecksniff a very good evening . 
And so he took himself off as little abashed by his recent failure as any gentleman would desire to be . 
But he resisted bravely refusing to receive all letters , messages , and parcels obstinately declining to treat with anybody and holding out no hope or promise of capitulation . 
If ever Mr Pecksniff wore an apostolic look , he wore it on this memorable day . 
If ever his unruffled smile proclaimed the words , 'I am a messenger of peace ! that was its mission now . 
But when the company arrived ! That was the time . 
Then there was a solitary female cousin who was remarkable for nothing but being very deaf , and living by herself , and always having the toothache . 
Last of all there were present Mr Chevy Slyme and his friend Tigg . 
'This , said Mr Pecksniff , rising and looking round upon them with folded hands , 'does me good . 
It does my daughters good . 
We thank you for assembling here . 
We are grateful to you with our whole hearts . 
It is a blessed distinction that you have conferred upon us , and believe me' it is impossible to conceive how he smiled here 'we shall not easily forget it . 
'I am sorry to interrupt you , Pecksniff , remarked Mr Spottletoe , with his whiskers in a very portentous state 'but you are assuming too much to yourself , sir . 
Who do you imagine has it in contemplation to confer a distinction upon YOU , sir ? A general murmur echoed this inquiry , and applauded it . 
'I am not sorry , said Mr Pecksniff in resumption of his address , 'I am really not sorry that this little incident has happened . 
It is good to feel that we are met here without disguise . 
It is good to know that we have no reserve before each other , but are appearing freely in our own characters . 
, one and all plunged into the quarrel directly . 
to kick Mr George Chuzzlewit for , and in consideration of , the trifling sum of sixpence , took his wife under his arm and indignantly withdrew . 
It was then that Mr Pecksniff once more rose from his chair . 
'A what , my good sir ? demanded Mr Pecksniff . 
This was said in a very bland voice , and aside , as being addressed to his daughter's private ear . 
The strong minded lady was not at all sure that this was a blessed exception . 
'Well , my dear madam ! said Mr Pecksniff . 
In their strong feeling on this point , they , who agreed in nothing else , all concurred as one mind . 
'Then I will not , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Why , the truth is , my dear , said Mr Pecksniff , smiling upon his assembled kindred , 'that I am at a loss for a word . 
who used to sing in the water , has quite escaped me . 
Mr George Chuzzlewit suggested 'swans . 
'No , said Mr Pecksniff . 
Very like swans , too . 
The nephew with the outline of a countenance , speaking for the first and last time on that occasion , propounded 'Oysters . 
'No , said Mr Pecksniff , with his own peculiar urbanity , 'nor oysters . 
But by no means unlike oysters a very excellent idea thank you , my dear sir , very much . 
Dear me ! sirens , of course . 
I think , I say , that means might be devised of disposing our respected relative to listen to the promptings of nature , and not to the siren like delusions of art . 
As to eating , I beg to say , whatever bitterness your jealousies and disappointed expectations may suggest to you , that I am not a cannibal , ma'am . 
'I don't know that ! cried the strong minded woman . 
The strong minded woman immediately rose . 
'I might have been prepared for this ! cried the strong minded woman , looking about her with a disdainful smile as she moved towards the door , followed by her three daughters . 
'Indeed I was fully prepared for it from the first . 
This was a smart stab at a pension enjoyed by the strong minded woman , during her second widowhood and before her last coverture . 
Now , my dears , if you're quite ready , and have sufficiently improved yourselves by taking to heart the genteel example of these two young ladies , I think we'll go . 
Mr Pecksniff , we are very much obliged to you , really . 
We came to be entertained , and you have far surpassed our utmost expectations , in the amusement you have provided for us . 
Compared with his present state of heat , he had gone out a man of snow or ice . 
'My good sir ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'Oh nothing ! cried Spottletoe , still gasping . 
'Nothing at all ! It's of no consequence ! Ask him ! HE'll tell you ! 'I do not understand our friend , said Mr Pecksniff , looking about him in utter amazement . 
'I assure you that he is quite unintelligible to me . 
'Unintelligible , sir ! cried the other . 
'Gone , echoed Mr Spottletoe . 
'Gone while we were sitting here . 
Nobody knows where he's gone . 
Oh , of course not ! Nobody knew he was going . 
Oh , of course not ! The landlady thought up to the very last moment that they were merely going for a ride she had no other suspicion . 
Oh , of course not ! She's not this fellow's creature . 
CHAPTER FIVE CONTAINING A FULL ACCOUNT OF THE INSTALLATION OF MR PECKSNIFF'S NEW PUPIL INTO THE BOSOM OF MR PECKSNIFF'S FAMILY . 
He was always in a manner , going to go , and never going . 
He was a kind of animal who infused into the breasts of strangers a lively sense of hope , and possessed all those who knew him better with a grim despair . 
In what respect , having these points of character , he might be fairly likened to his master , that good man's slanderers only can explain . 
But it is a melancholy truth , and a deplorable instance of the uncharitableness of the world , that they made the comparison . 
to the blush , and shame the spring for being sometimes cold by halves . 
So it was to Tom . 
From cottage chimneys , smoke went streaming up high , high , as if the earth had lost its grossness , being so fair , and must not be oppressed by heavy vapour . 
And she was right , for when he drew within hail of the gate , forth rushed the tollman's children , shrieking in tiny chorus , 'Mr Pinch ! to Tom's intense delight . 
But there was more than this . 
It was not only the married people and the children who gave Tom Pinch a welcome as he passed . 
Sparkling eyes and snowy breasts came hurriedly to many an upper casement as he clattered by , and gave him back his greeting not stinted either , but sevenfold , good measure . 
And some of the wickedest among them even kissed their hands as Tom looked back . 
For who minded poor Mr Pinch ? There was no harm in HIM . 
In compliment to which discovery , the brook stood still no longer , but ran briskly off to bear the tidings to the water mill , three miles away . 
'Why , Mark ? said Tom Pinch , stopping . 
'And how spruce you are , too ! said Mr Pinch , surveying him with great pleasure . 
'Really , I didn't think you were half such a tight made fellow , Mark ! 'Thankee , Mr Pinch . 
Pretty well for that , I believe . 
It's not my fault , you know . 
With regard to being spruce , sir , that's where it is , you see . 
And here he looked particularly gloomy . 
'Where what is ? Mr Pinch demanded . 
'Where the aggravation of it is . 
Any man may be in good spirits and good temper when he's well dressed . 
There an't much credit in that . 
If I was very ragged and very jolly , then I should begin to feel I had gained a point , Mr Pinch . 
'So you were singing just now , to bear up , as it were , against being well dressed , eh , Mark ? said Pinch . 
'Your conversation's always equal to print , sir , rejoined Mark , with a broad grin . 
'Well ! cried Pinch , 'you are the strangest young man , Mark , I ever knew in my life . 
I always thought so but now I am quite certain of it . 
I am going to Salisbury , too . 
Will you get in ? I shall be very glad of your company . 
As they went along , the conversation proceeded after this manner . 
'I more than half believed , just now , seeing you so very smart , said Pinch , 'that you must be going to be married , Mark . 
'Well , sir , I've thought of that , too , he replied . 
'There might be some credit in being jolly with a wife , 'specially if the children had the measles and that , and was very fractious indeed . 
But I'm a'most afraid to try it . 
I don't see my way clear . 
'You're not very fond of anybody , perhaps ? said Pinch . 
'Not particular , sir , I think . 
'So it would , sir but that might be carrying out a principle a little too far , mightn't it ? 'Perhaps it might , said Mr Pinch . 
At which they both laughed gayly . 
'Lord bless you , sir , said Mark , 'you don't half know me , though . 
But I can't get a chance . 
It's my opinion that nobody never will know half of what's in me , unless something very unexpected turns up . 
And I don't see any prospect of that . 
I'm a going to leave the Dragon , sir . 
'Going to leave the Dragon ! cried Mr Pinch , looking at him with great astonishment . 
'What's the use of my stopping at the Dragon ? It an't at all the sort of place for ME . 
But , Lord , there's no dullness at the Dragon ! Skittles , cricket , quoits , nine pins , comic songs , choruses , company round the chimney corner every winter's evening . 
Any man could be jolly at the Dragon . 
There's no credit in THAT . 
'There may be something in that , too , sir , answered Mark . 
'Well ! said Mr Pinch , after a short silence , his usually subdued tone being even now more subdued than ever . 
'I can hardly think enough of what you tell me . 
There were plenty of smart young fellows as would be glad of the place . 
He knew a dozen himself . 
'That's probable enough , said Mr Pinch , 'but I am not at all sure that Mrs Lupin would be glad of them . 
Why , I always supposed that Mrs Lupin and you would make a match of it , Mark and so did every one , as far as I know . 
Well , sir , THAT wouldn't suit . 
'Not to be landlord of the Dragon , Mark ? cried Mr Pinch . 
'No , sir , certainly not , returned the other , withdrawing his gaze from the horizon , and looking at his fellow traveller . 
'Why that would be the ruin of a man like me . 
I go and sit down comfortably for life , and no man never finds me out . 
What would be the credit of the landlord of the Dragon's being jolly ? Why , he couldn't help it , if he tried . 
'Does Mrs Lupin know you are going to leave her ? Mr Pinch inquired . 
'I haven't broke it to her yet , sir , but I must . 
I'm looking out this morning for something new and suitable , he said , nodding towards the city . 
'What kind of thing now ? Mr Pinch demanded . 
'I was thinking , Mark replied , 'of something in the grave digging . 
'Good gracious , Mark ? cried Mr Pinch . 
You don't happen to know how that is in general , do you , sir ? 'No , said Mr Pinch , 'I don't indeed . 
I never thought upon the subject . 
'In case of that not turning out as well as one could wish , you know , said Mark , musing again , 'there's other businesses . 
There might be credit to be gained there . 
A broker's man in a poor neighbourhood wouldn't be bad perhaps . 
A jailor sees a deal of misery . 
A doctor's man is in the very midst of murder . 
A bailiff's an't a lively office nat'rally . 
Even a tax gatherer must find his feelings rather worked upon , at times . 
There's lots of trades in which I should have an opportunity , I think . 
, until they reached a certain corner of the road , close upon the outskirts of the city , when Mark said he would jump down there , if he pleased . 
'Good of one ? said Mr Pinch . 
'Why , to keep your chest warm . 
'Lord love you , sir ! cried Mark , 'you don't know me . 
My chest don't want no warming . 
His late companion , with a thoughtful face pursued his way to Salisbury . 
Also a great many dogs , who were strongly interested in the state of the market and the bargains of their masters and a great confusion of tongues , both brute and human . 
When he had exhausted the market place , and watched the farmers safe into the market dinner , he went back to look after the horse . 
and in their agreeable compromises between medicine and perfumery , in the shape of toothsome lozenges and virgin honey . 
It was then turning dark , and the yellow light that streamed in through the ancient windows in the choir was mingled with a murky red . 
'Very hard frost to night , sir , said the newcomer , courteously acknowledging Mr Pinch's withdrawal of the little table , that he might have place 'Don't disturb yourself , I beg . 
'My feet are quite numbed . 
Ah ! Bitter cold to be sure . 
'You have been in the air some considerable time , I dare say ? said Mr Pinch . 
Outside a coach , too . 
'That accounts for his making the room so cool , thought Mr Pinch . 
'Poor fellow ! How thoroughly chilled he must be ! The stranger became thoughtful likewise , and sat for five or ten minutes looking at the fire in silence . 
There was a clock in the room , which the stranger often turned to look at . 
The fact is , I have an engagement to meet a gentleman here . 
'So have I , said Mr Pinch . 
'At half past six , said the stranger . 
'At half past six , said Tom in the very same breath whereupon the other looked at him with some surprise . 
'The young gentleman , I expect , remarked Tom , timidly , 'was to inquire at that time for a person by the name of Pinch . 
'Dear me ! cried the other , jumping up . 
'And I have been keeping the fire from you all this while ! I had no idea you were Mr Pinch . 
I am the Mr Martin for whom you were to inquire . 
How do you do ? Oh , do draw nearer , pray ! 'Thank you , said Tom , 'thank you . 
I am not at all cold , and you are and we have a cold ride before us . 
Well , if you wish it , I will . 
I was thinking , but a minute ago , that I could wish him to be like you . 
'No , really ! said Tom , with great pleasure . 
'Are you serious ? 'Upon my word I am , replied his new acquaintance . 
But they're quite relieved now . 
Mr Pinch assented , and the punch was ordered . 
In due course it came hot and strong . 
After drinking to each other in the steaming mixture , they became quite confidential . 
'I'm a sort of relation of Pecksniff's , you know , said the young man . 
'Indeed ! cried Mr Pinch . 
My grandfather is his cousin , so he's kith and kin to me , somehow , if you can make that out . 
'Then Martin is your Christian name ? said Mr Pinch , thoughtfully . 
'Dear me ! cried Mr Pinch , with an involuntary start . 
'You're not surprised at my having two names , I suppose ? returned the other , setting his glass to his lips . 
'Oh , no , said Mr Pinch , 'not at all . 
They looked at each other out of their respective tumblers for a few seconds , and then put them down empty . 
'I told them in the stable to be ready for us ten minutes ago , said Mr Pinch , glancing at the clock again . 
'Shall we go ? 'If you please , returned the other . 
'Would you like to drive ? said Mr Pinch his whole face beaming with a consciousness of the splendour of his offer . 
'You shall , if you wish . 
'Why , that depends , Mr Pinch , said Martin , laughing , 'upon what sort of a horse you have . 
Because if he's a bad one , I would rather keep my hands warm by holding them comfortably in my greatcoat pockets . 
He appeared to think this such a good joke , that Mr Pinch was quite sure it must be a capital one . 
Accordingly , he laughed too , and was fully persuaded that he enjoyed it very much . 
'I won't drive , thank you , Mr Pinch , said Martin , getting into the sitter's place . 
'By the bye , there's a box of mine . 
Can we manage to take it ? 'Oh , certainly , said Tom . 
It was a clear evening , with a bright moon . 
The whole landscape was silvered by its light and by the hoar frost and everything looked exquisitely beautiful . 
ordered another glass of punch , which they drank between them , and which had not the effect of making them less conversational than before . 
would not have sent Tom Pinch to bring the pupil home . 
marking , whatever light shone out of Heaven , the flight of days and weeks and years , by some new shadow on that solemn ground . 
'A pretty church ! said Martin , observing that his companion slackened the slack pace of the horse , as they approached . 
'Is it not ? cried Tom , with great pride . 
'There's the sweetest little organ there you ever heard . 
I play it for them . 
'It is hardly worth the trouble , I should think . 
What do you get for that , now ? 'Nothing , answered Tom . 
'Well , returned his friend , 'you ARE a very strange fellow ! To which remark there succeeded a brief silence . 
It led to something else the other day but you will not care to hear about that I dare say ? 'Oh yes I shall . 
What ? 'It led to my seeing , said Tom , in a lower voice , 'one of the loveliest and most beautiful faces you can possibly picture to yourself . 
'And yet I am able to picture a beautiful one , said his friend , thoughtfully , 'or should be , if I have any memory . 
A moment's reflection got the better of that , of course , and fortunately it came to my relief so soon , that I didn't leave off playing . 
'Why fortunately ? 'Why ? Because she stood there , listening . 
I had my spectacles on , and saw her through the chinks in the curtains as plainly as I see you and she was beautiful . 
After a while she glided off , and I continued to play until she was out of hearing . 
'Why did you do that ? 'Don't you see ? responded Tom . 
'Because she might suppose I hadn't seen her and might return . 
'And did she ? 'Certainly she did . 
Next morning , and next evening too but always when there were no people about , and always alone . 
I rose earlier and sat there later , that when she came , she might find the church door open , and the organ playing , and might not be disappointed . 
She strolled that way for some days , and always stayed to listen . 
But she is gone now , and of all unlikely things in this wide world , it is perhaps the most improbable that I shall ever look upon her face again . 
'You don't know anything more about her ? 'No . 
'And you never followed her when she went away ? 'Why should I distress her by doing that ? said Tom Pinch . 
Neither had Miss Charity expected them , for she was busied , with a capacious wicker basket before her , in making impracticable nightcaps for the poor . 
It would be difficult , if not impossible , to conceive a family so thoroughly taken by surprise as the Pecksniffs were , on this occasion . 
Bless my life ! said Mr Pecksniff , looking up , and gradually exchanging his abstracted face for one of joyful recognition . 
you have not beheld ah , these sad family divisions ! since you were infants together . 
We are on the best terms , I assure you . 
'Old Tom Pinch ! said Mr Pecksniff , looking on him with affectionate sadness . 
'Ah ! It seems but yesterday that Thomas was a boy fresh from a scholastic course . 
Yet years have passed , I think , since Thomas Pinch and I first walked the world together ! Mr Pinch could say nothing . 
He was too much moved . 
But he pressed his master's hand , and tried to thank him . 
'No more of this ! Martin , my dear friend , that you may be at home within these walls , let me show you how we live , and where . 
Come ! With that he took up a lighted candle , and , attended by his young relative , prepared to leave the room . 
At the door , he stopped . 
Portrait of myself by Spiller . 
The latter is considered a good likeness . 
I seem to recognize something about the left hand corner of the nose , myself . 
Martin thought it was very like , but scarcely intellectual enough . 
Mr Pecksniff observed that the same fault had been found with it before . 
It was remarkable it should have struck his young relation too . 
He was glad to see he had an eye for art . 
'Various books you observe , said Mr Pecksniff , waving his hand towards the wall , 'connected with our pursuit . 
I have scribbled myself , but have not yet published . 
Be careful how you come upstairs . 
This , opening another door , 'is my chamber . 
I read here when the family suppose I have retired to rest . 
Sometimes I injure my health rather more than I can quite justify to myself , by doing so but art is long and time is short . 
Every facility you see for jotting down crude notions , even here . 
Mr Pecksniff opened another door on the same floor , and shut it again , all at once , as if it were a Blue Chamber . 
So Mr Pecksniff answered himself , by throwing open the door , and saying 'My daughters' room . 
A poor first floor to us , but a bower to them . 
Plants you observe hyacinths books again birds . 
These birds , by the bye , comprised , in all , one staggering old sparrow without a tail , which had been borrowed expressly from the kitchen . 
'Such trifles as girls love are here . 
Those who seek heartless splendour , would seek here in vain . 
With that he led them to the floor above . 
'This , said Mr Pecksniff , throwing wide the door of the memorable two pair front 'is a room where some talent has been developed I believe . 
This is a room in which an idea for a steeple occurred to me that I may one day give to the world . 
We work here , my dear Martin . 
Some architects have been bred in this room a few , I think , Mr Pinch ? Tom fully assented and , what is more , fully believed it . 
'You see , said Mr Pecksniff , passing the candle rapidly from roll to roll of paper , 'some traces of our doings here . 
Salisbury Cathedral from the north . 
Plans , elevations , sections , every kind of thing . 
A southern aspect a charming prospect Mr Pinch's little library , you perceive everything agreeable and appropriate . 
If there is any additional comfort you would desire to have here at anytime , pray mention it . 
Even to strangers , far less to you , my dear Martin , there is no restriction on that point . 
Some young gentlemen had gone on mentioning the very same thing for five years without ever being stopped . 
'The domestic assistants , said Mr Pecksniff , 'sleep above and that is all . 
After which , and listening complacently as he went , to the encomiums passed by his young friend on the arrangements generally , he led the way to the parlour again . 
Here a great change had taken place for festive preparations on a rather extensive scale were already completed , and the two Miss Pecksniffs were awaiting their return with hospitable looks . 
a plate of oranges cut up small and gritty with powdered sugar , and a highly geological home made cake . 
'Martin , he said , 'will seat himself between you two , my dears , and Mr Pinch will come by me . 
to look as if the wine were not acid and didn't make him wink , Mr Pecksniff did honour to his own toast . 
'This , he said , in allusion to the party , not the wine , 'is a mingling that repays one for much disappointment and vexation . 
Here he took a captain's biscuit . 
'It is a poor heart that never rejoices and our hearts are not poor . 
Martin and the young ladies were excellent friends already , and compared recollections of their childish days , to their mutual liveliness and entertainment . 
'Mr Pinch , said Pecksniff , seating himself with folded arms on one of the spare beds . 
'I don't see any snuffers in that candlestick . 
Will you oblige me by going down , and asking for a pair ? Mr Pinch , only too happy to be useful , went off directly . 
'You will excuse Thomas Pinch's want of polish , Martin , said Mr Pecksniff , with a smile of patronage and pity , as soon as he had left the room . 
'He is a very good fellow , sir . 
'Oh , yes , said Mr Pecksniff . 
I have never regretted having befriended Thomas Pinch . 
'I should think you never would , sir . 
'No , said Mr Pecksniff . 
Poor fellow , he is always disposed to do his best but he is not gifted . 
You will make him useful to you , Martin , if you please . 
If Thomas has a fault , it is that he is sometimes a little apt to forget his position . 
But that is soon checked . 
Worthy soul ! You will find him easy to manage . 
Good night ! 'Good night , sir . 
By this time Mr Pinch had returned with the snuffers . 
'And good night to YOU , Mr Pinch , said Pecksniff . 
'And sound sleep to you both . 
If Martin dreamed at all , some clue to the matter of his visions may possibly be gathered from the after pages of this history . 
Those of Thomas Pinch were all of holidays , church organs , and seraphic Pecksniffs . 
But he , too , slept and dreamed at last . 
Thus in the quiet hours of the night , one house shuts in as many incoherent and incongruous fancies as a madman's head . 
had been squeezed into the nectar of her disposition , and had rather damaged its flavour . 
When the meal was nearly over , Mr Pecksniff smilingly explained the cause of their common satisfaction . 
'It is not often , he said , 'Martin , that my daughters and I desert our quiet home to pursue the giddy round of pleasures that revolves abroad . 
But we think of doing so to day . 
'Indeed , sir ! cried the new pupil . 
'Yes , said Mr Pecksniff , tapping his left hand with a letter which he held in his right . 
When I say olive branches , observed Mr Pecksniff , in explanation , 'I mean , our unpretending luggage . 
'I hope the young ladies will enjoy their trip , said Martin . 
'Oh ! that I'm sure we shall ! cried Mercy , clapping her hands . 
'Good gracious , Cherry , my darling , the idea of London ! 'Ardent child ! said Mr Pecksniff , gazing on her in a dreamy way . 
'And yet there is a melancholy sweetness in these youthful hopes ! It is pleasant to know that they never can be realised . 
I remember thinking once myself , in the days of my childhood , that pickled onions grew on trees , and that every elephant was born with an impregnable castle on his back . 
I have not found the fact to be so far from it and yet those visions have comforted me under circumstances of trial . 
At this dread allusion to John Westlock , Mr Pinch precipitately choked in his tea for he had that very morning received a letter from him , as Mr Pecksniff very well knew . 
'You will take care , my dear Martin , said Mr Pecksniff , resuming his former cheerfulness , 'that the house does not run away in our absence . 
We leave you in charge of everything . 
There is no mystery all is free and open . 
'They are pretty nearly the same thing , I believe , said Mr Pecksniff , smiling compassionately 'or they used to be in my time . 
Unlike that young man , my dear Martin , you are forbidden to enter no corner of this house but are requested to make yourself perfectly at home in every part of it . 
It was the finishing ornament of the conversation for when he had delivered it , Mr Pecksniff rose and led the way to that hotbed of architectural genius , the two pair front . 
'Let me see , he said , searching among the papers , 'how you can best employ yourself , Martin , while I am absent . 
'A pump , said Mr Pecksniff , 'is very chaste practice . 
I have found that a lamp post is calculated to refine the mind and give it a classical tendency . 
An ornamental turnpike has a remarkable effect upon the imagination . 
What do you say to beginning with an ornamental turnpike ? 'Whatever Mr Pecksniff pleased , said Martin , doubtfully . 
'Stay , said that gentleman . 
Upon my word , now , said Mr Pecksniff , merrily , 'I shall be very curious to see what you make of the grammar school . 
There are a cart load of loose bricks , and a score or two of old flower pots , in the back yard . 
If you could pile them up my dear Martin , into any form which would remind me on my return say of St . 
Peter's at Rome , or the Mosque of St . 
Sophia at Constantinople , it would be at once improving to you and agreeable to my feelings . 
Martin attended him and they remained in secret conference together for an hour or more leaving Tom Pinch alone . 
She will be glad to see my hand , poor girl , and to hear that Pecksniff is as kind as ever . 
Besides , they are particular people where she is , and it might have rendered her situation uncomfortable if she had had a visit from a young man like John . 
, to be feeling low , on account of the distance between us , when I ought to be thinking , instead , of my extraordinary good luck in having ever got here . 
I must have been born with a silver spoon in my mouth , I am sure , to have ever come across Pecksniff . 
And here have I fallen again into my usual good luck with the new pupil ! Such an affable , generous , free fellow , as he is , I never saw . 
As the coach appeared at the same moment , Tom lost no time in entreating the gentleman last mentioned , to undertake the delivery of his letter . 
'Oh ! said Mr Pecksniff , glancing at the superscription . 
'For your sister , Thomas . 
Yes , oh yes , it shall be delivered , Mr Pinch . 
Make your mind easy upon that score . 
She shall certainly have it , Mr Pinch . 
, and thanked him earnestly . 
The Miss Pecksniffs , according to a custom they had , were amused beyond description at the mention of Mr Pinch's sister . 
Therefore he laughed too and rubbed his hands and wished them a pleasant journey and safe return , and was quite brisk . 
The perfect silence which ensued upon the bustle and departure of the coach , together with the sharp air of the wintry afternoon , roused them both at the same time . 
They turned , as by mutual consent , and moved off arm in arm . 
'How melancholy you are ! said Tom 'what is the matter ? 'Nothing worth speaking of , said Martin . 
'Very little more than was the matter yesterday , and much more , I hope , than will be the matter to morrow . 
I'm out of spirits , Pinch . 
'Well , cried Tom , 'now do you know I am in capital spirits today , and scarcely ever felt more disposed to be good company . 
'He must be a devilish good natured fellow , said Martin , somewhat peevishly 'because he can't mean that , you know . 
'I don't suppose he can , eh ? said Tom , looking wistfully in his companion's face . 
'Of course I know best , Martin observed . 
'Yes , I feel that , said Mr Pinch mildly . 
And when he had made this rejoinder , they fell into a blank silence again , which lasted until they reached home by which time it was dark . 
, sat moodily down before it , in the most comfortable chair he could find . 
'That's right , said Tom , nodding approvingly . 
'Didn't you though ? said Tom . 
'Deuce take it , I must talk openly to somebody . 
I'll talk openly to you , Pinch . 
'Not at all ! cried Tom . 
So I should have been , but for certain brief reasons which I am going to tell you , and which have led to my being disinherited . 
'By your father ? inquired Mr Pinch , with open eyes . 
I have had no parents these many years . 
'Neither have I , said Tom , touching the young man's hand with his own and timidly withdrawing it again . 
But as I never did know anything about mine personally , you know , why , I can't be expected to be very sentimental about 'em . 
And I am not that's the truth . 
Mr Pinch was just then looking thoughtfully at the bars . 
But on his companion pausing in this place , he started , and said 'Oh ! of course' and composed himself to listen again . 
'In a word , said Martin , 'I have been bred and reared all my life by this grandfather of whom I have just spoken . 
In the first place , he has the most confirmed obstinacy of character you ever met with in any human creature . 
In the second , he is most abominably selfish . 
'Is he indeed ? cried Tom . 
'In those two respects , returned the other , 'there never was such a man . 
I have often heard from those who know , that they have been , time out of mind , the failings of our family and I believe there's some truth in it . 
But I can't say of my own knowledge . 
All I have to do , you know , is to be very thankful that they haven't descended to me , and , to be very careful that I don't contract 'em . 
'To be sure , said Mr Pinch . 
Mr Pinch being about the worst man in the world to help anybody out of a difficulty of this sort , said nothing . 
'Well ! as you understand me , resumed Martin , quickly , 'I needn't hunt for the precise expression I want . 
Now I come to the cream of my story , and the occasion of my being here . 
I am in love , Pinch . 
Mr Pinch looked up into his face with increased interest . 
'I say I am in love . 
I am in love with one of the most beautiful girls the sun ever shone upon . 
There is nothing very selfish in THAT love , I think ? 'Selfish ! cried Tom . 
'I thought you meant that , or I wouldn't have said it . 
'Well ! I can guess what SHE said when you told her , he added , glancing at Martin's handsome face . 
Her heart was mine , I found . 
'Just what I supposed , said Tom . 
'Quite natural ! and , in his great satisfaction , he took a long sip out of his wine glass . 
, of a young creature whom he had trained and educated to be his only disinterested and faithful companion , when he should have disposed of me in marriage to his heart's content . 
Mr Pinch opened his eyes wider , and looked at the fire harder than he had done yet . 
'You may be sure , said Martin , 'that this nettled him , and that he began to be the very reverse of complimentary to myself . 
Interview succeeded interview words engendered words , as they always do and the upshot of it was , that I was to renounce her , or be renounced by him . 
, but that a chief ingredient in my composition is a most determined 'Obstinacy , suggested Tom in perfect good faith . 
'I didn't want that word , he rejoined . 
'Oh ! cried Tom , screwing up his mouth , and nodding . 
'No , no , said Tom . 
'On the contrary , the more he urged , the more I was determined to oppose him . 
'To be sure ! said Tom . 
At length he said 'Pecksniff , of course , you had known before ? 'Only by name . 
No , I had never seen him , for my grandfather kept not only himself but me , aloof from all his relations . 
But our separation took place in a town in the adjoining country . 
Well ! As I said before , here I am . 
'To say nothing of her , remarked Tom Pinch , in a low voice . 
'Exactly so , rejoined Martin , rising to warm his back , and leaning against the chimney piece . 
'To say nothing of her . 
It was a very long time before Tom said 'Certainly so long , that he might have taken a nap in the interval , but he did say it at last . 
'Now , there is one odd coincidence connected with this love story , said Martin , 'which brings it to an end . 
'I knew what you were going to say , cried Tom , looking fixedly at him , and speaking very softly . 
'You don't tell me so ? 'That was she , repeated the young man . 
'After what I have heard from Pecksniff , I have no doubt that she came and went with my grandfather . 
Don't you drink too much of that sour wine , or you'll have a fit of some sort , Pinch , I see . 
'It is not very wholesome , I am afraid , said Tom , setting down the empty glass he had for some time held . 
with kindness , and in a spirit of lenient construction . 
I have always read that the truth is so , and I have a feeling within me , which tells me how natural and right it is that it should be . 
'You're a good fellow , upon my word , and speak very kindly . 
'Except in the inclination , said Tom , gently . 
'Oh ! to be sure . 
I meant that , of course . 
If inclination went for anything , I shouldn't want help . 
I tell you what you may do , though , if you will , and at the present moment too . 
'What is that ? demanded Tom . 
'I shall be delighted , cried Tom , catching up the candle with enthusiasm . 
'Excuse my leaving you in the dark a moment , and I'll fetch a book directly . 
What will you like ? Shakespeare ? 'Aye ! replied his friend , yawning and stretching himself . 
You won't mind my going to sleep , if I can ? 'Not at all ! cried Tom . 
'Then begin as soon as you like . 
, for it's pleasant to wake gradually to the sounds again . 
Don't mind leaving me in the dark . 
Look sharp ! Mr Pinch lost no time in moving away and in a minute or two returned with one of the precious volumes from the shelf beside his bed . 
'Don't be too loud , please , he said to Pinch . 
'No , no , said Tom . 
'You're sure you're not cold' 'Not at all ! cried Tom . 
'I am quite ready , then . 
Before he had completed fifty lines his friend was snoring . 
'Poor fellow ! said Tom , softly , as he stretched out his head to peep at him over the backs of the chairs . 
'He is very young to have so much trouble . 
How trustful and generous in him to bestow all this confidence in me . 
'Why , it's nearly out , I declare ! No wonder I dreamed of being frozen . 
Do call for some coals . 
, would ever have reason to regret the day on which they became acquainted . 
, it was of all possible events among the least probable , that the twin demons , Envy and Pride , would ever arise between them . 
So in very many cases of friendship , or what passes for it , the old axiom is reversed , and like clings to unlike more than to like . 
'I am not industrious myself , gents both , said the head , 'but I know how to appreciate that quality in others . 
I wish I may turn grey and ugly , if it isn't in my opinion , next to genius , one of the very charmingest qualities of the human mind . 
Upon my soul , I am grateful to my friend Pecksniff for helping me to the contemplation of such a delicious picture as you present . 
You remind me of Whittington , afterwards thrice Lord Mayor of London . 
I give you my unsullied word of honour , that you very strongly remind me of that historical character . 
You are a pair of Whittingtons , gents , without the cat which is a most agreeable and blessed exception to me , for I am not attached to the feline species . 
'Chevy Slyme ? said Mr Tigg , interrogatively , and kissing his left hand in token of friendship . 
'Pray , what does he want with me ? 'If your name is Pinch' Mr Tigg began . 
'It is not' said Martin , checking himself . 
'That is a comfort , Mr Tigg rejoined . 
'Then , he added , shielding his lips with the palm of his hand , and applying them close to Mr Pinch's ear , 'I have come for the letter . 
'For the letter , said Tom , aloud . 
'What letter ? 'The letter , whispered Tigg in the same cautious manner as before , 'which my friend Pecksniff addressed to Chevy Slyme , Esquire , and left with you . 
'He didn't leave any letter with me , said Tom . 
'Hush ! cried the other . 
'It's all the same thing , though not so delicately done by my friend Pecksniff as I could have wished . 
'The money ! cried Tom quite scared . 
'Exactly so , said Mr Tigg . 
Ha ! ha ! For his bill . 
I repeat it for his bill . 
'Don't mistake me , gents both , he said , stretching forth his right hand . 
'You have no objection to my opening this window for a moment ? 'Certainly not , said Tom . 
'Very good , said Mr Tigg , lifting the sash . 
'You see a fellow down there in a red neckcloth and no waistcoat ? 'Of course I do , cried Tom . 
'Mark Tapley is it ? said the gentleman . 
'Then Mark Tapley had not only the great politeness to follow me to this house , but is waiting now , to see me home again . 
'Come here , Mark ! said Mr Pinch . 
'Good gracious me ! what's the matter between Mrs Lupin and this gentleman ? 'What gentleman , sir ? said Mark . 
'Nonsense , Mark ! cried Tom . 
'You see Mr 'Tigg , interposed that gentleman . 
I shall crush him soon . 
All in good time ! 'Oh HIM ! rejoined Mark , with an air of careless defiance . 
'Yes , I see HIM . 
I could see him a little better , if he'd shave himself , and get his hair cut . 
Mr Tigg shook his head with a ferocious look , and smote himself once upon the breast . 
'It's no use , said Mark . 
'If you knock ever so much in that quarter , you'll get no answer . 
There's nothing there but padding and a greasy sort it is . 
'Nay , Mark , urged Mr Pinch , interposing to prevent hostilities , 'tell me what I ask you . 
You're not out of temper , I hope ? 'Out of temper , sir ! cried Mark , with a grin 'why no , sir . 
What is there between him and Mrs Lupin , sir ? Why , there's a score between him and Mrs Lupin . 
And I think Mrs Lupin lets him and his friend off very easy in not charging 'em double prices for being a disgrace to the Dragon . 
I wouldn't have any such Peter the Wild Boy as him in my house , sir , not if I was paid race week prices for it . 
He's enough to turn the very beer in the casks sour with his looks he is ! So he would , if it had judgment enough . 
'You're not answering my question , you know , Mark , observed Mr Pinch . 
'Well , sir , said Mark , 'I don't know as there's much to answer further than that . 
Him and his friend goes and stops at the Moon and Stars till they've run a bill there and then comes and stops with us and does the same . 
The running of bills is common enough Mr Pinch it an't that as we object to it's the ways of this chap . 
This not being aggravation enough , he says this morning to me , in his usual captivating way , We're going to night , my man . 
Are you , sir ? says I. Perhaps you'd like the bill got ready , sir ? Oh no , my man , he says you needn't mind that . 
I'll give Pecksniff orders to see to that . 
, we should prefer something more satisfactory and that's where the matter stands . 
'Only just turned of three pounds . 
But it an't that it's the 'Yes , yes , you told us so before , said Martin . 
'Pinch , a word with you . 
'What is it ? asked Tom , retiring with him to a corner of the room . 
You haven't enough money to pay this bill , I suppose ? Tom shook his head to an extent that left no doubt of his entire sincerity . 
'That's unfortunate , for I am poor too and in case you had had it , I'd have borrowed it of you . 
But if we told this landlady we would see her paid , I suppose that would answer the same purpose ? 'Oh dear , yes ! said Tom . 
'She knows me , bless you ! 'Then let us go down at once and tell her so for the sooner we are rid of their company the better . 
'Chiv , said Mr Tigg , clapping him on the back , 'my friend Pecksniff not being at home , I have arranged our trifling piece of business with Mr Pinch and friend . 
But Mr Tigg so urgently conjured them , by coughs and signs , to remain in the shadow of the door , that they stopped there . 
Society is in a conspiracy against me . 
I'm the most literary man alive . 
'Obliged to two strangers for a tavern bill , eh ! repeated Mr Slyme , after a sulky application to his glass . 
With a whine , not unlike the cry of the animal he named , in its lowest state of humiliation , he raised his glass to his mouth again . 
He found some encouragement in it for when he set it down he laughed scornfully . 
Upon that Mr Tigg gesticulated to the visitors once more , and with great expression , implying that now the time was come when they would see Chiv in his greatness . 
'Ha , ha , ha , laughed Mr Slyme . 
'Obliged to two strangers for a tavern bill ! I obliged to two architect's apprentices . 
Fellows who measure earth with iron chains , and build houses like bricklayers . 
Give me the names of those two apprentices . 
'I'll let 'em know , and I'll let all men know , cried Chevy Slyme , 'that I'm none of the mean , grovelling , tame characters they meet with commonly . 
I have an independent spirit . 
I have a heart that swells in my bosom . 
I have a soul that rises superior to base considerations . 
'You are not going , Mr Pinch ? said Tigg . 
'Thank you , answered Tom . 
'Do you know that I should like one little word in private with you Mr Pinch ? said Tigg , following him . 
'One minute of your company in the skittle ground would very much relieve my mind . 
Might I beseech that favour ? 'Oh , certainly , replied Tom , 'if you really wish it . 
'You have not beheld me this day , said Mr Tigg , 'in a favourable light . 
'Don't mention that , said Tom , 'I beg . 
'But you have NOT , cried Tigg . 
'I must persist in that opinion . 
You would have respected me , sir . 
Tom had certain ideas of his own upon the subject of glory and consequently he was not quite so much excited by this picture as Mr Tigg could have desired . 
'But no matter ! said that gentleman . 
'The school boy writing home to his parents and describing the milk and water , said This is indeed weakness . 
I repeat that assertion in reference to myself at the present moment and I ask your pardon . 
Sir , you have seen my friend Slyme ? 'No doubt , said Mr Pinch . 
'Sir , you have been impressed by my friend Slyme ? 'Not very pleasantly , I must say , answered Tom , after a little hesitation . 
'I am grieved but not surprised , cried Mr Tigg , detaining him with both hands , 'to hear that you have come to that conclusion for it is my own . 
But , Mr Pinch , though I am a rough and thoughtless man , I can honour Mind . 
I honour Mind in following my friend . 
To you of all men , Mr Pinch , I have a right to make appeal on Mind's behalf , when it has not the art to push its fortune in the world . 
I ask you for the loan of three half crowns , distinctly , and without a blush . 
I ask it , almost as a right . 
And when I add that they will be returned by post , this week , I feel that you will blame me for that sordid stipulation . 
Mr Pinch took from his pocket an old fashioned red leather purse with a steel clasp , which had probably once belonged to his deceased grandmother . 
It held one half sovereign and no more . 
All Tom's worldly wealth until next quarter day . 
'Stay ! cried Mr Tigg , who had watched this proceeding keenly . 
'I was just about to say , that for the convenience of posting you had better make it gold . 
A general direction , I suppose , to Mr Pinch at Mr Pecksniff's will that find you ? 'That'll find me , said Tom . 
'You had better put Esquire to Mr Pecksniff's name , if you please . 
Direct to me , you know , at Seth Pecksniff's , Esquire . 
'At Seth Pecksniff's , Esquire , repeated Mr Tigg , taking an exact note of it with a stump of pencil . 
'We said this week , I believe ? 'Yes or Monday will do , observed Tom . 
'No , no , I beg your pardon . 
Monday will NOT do , said Mr Tigg . 
'If we stipulated for this week , Saturday is the latest day . 
Did we stipulate for this week ? 'Since you are so particular about it , said Tom , 'I think we did . 
That done , he assured Mr Pinch that everything was now perfectly regular and , after squeezing his hand with great fervour , departed . 
Tom entertained enough suspicion that Martin might possibly turn this interview into a jest , to render him desirous to avoid the company of that young gentleman for the present . 
Waiting on such individuals as them would be better than grave digging , sir . 
'And staying here would be better than either , Mark , replied Tom . 
'So take my advice , and continue to swim easily in smooth water . 
'It's too late to take it now , sir , said Mark . 
'I have broke it to her , sir . 
I am off to morrow morning . 
'Off ! cried Mr Pinch , 'where to ? 'I shall go up to London , sir . 
'What to be ? asked Mr Pinch . 
'Well ! I don't know yet , sir . 
Nothing turned up that day I opened my mind to you , as was at all likely to suit me . 
All them trades I thought of was a deal too jolly there was no credit at all to be got in any of 'em . 
I must look for a private service , I suppose , sir . 
I might be brought out strong , perhaps , in a serious family , Mr Pinch . 
'Perhaps you might come out rather too strong for a serious family's taste , Mark . 
The man as would have suited me of all other men was that old gentleman as was took ill here , for he really was a trying customer . 
Howsever , I must wait and see what turns up , sir and hope for the worst . 
'You are determined to go then ? said Mr Pinch . 
Mr Pinch imparting to his new friend , as they went , such further particulars of Mark Tapley's whimsical restlessness as the reader is already acquainted with . 
'If I look at her , said Mark to himself , 'I'm done . 
I feel that I'm a going fast . 
'You have come at last , said Mrs Lupin . 
Aye , Mark said There he was . 
'And you are determined to leave us , Mark ? cried Mrs Lupin . 
'Why , yes I am , said Mark keeping his eyes hard upon the floor . 
'I thought , pursued the landlady , with a most engaging hesitation , 'that you had been fond of the Dragon ? 'So I am , said Mark . 
to be one of them . 
If I only thought what was best for me , I should take you . 
If I took what nineteen young fellows in twenty would be glad to take , and would take at any price , I should take you . 
rather hard at the hostess's ripe lips . 
'And no man wouldn't wonder if I did ! Mrs Lupin said he amazed her . 
She was astonished how he could say such things . 
She had never thought it of him . 
'Why , I never thought if of myself till now ! said Mark , raising his eyebrows with a look of the merriest possible surprise . 
There was for just one second a shade , though not by any means a dark one , on the landlady's open brow . 
But it passed off instantly , in a laugh that came from her very heart . 
'Oh , very good ! she said 'if there is to be no love making , you had better take your arm away . 
'Lord , why should I ! cried Mark . 
'Of course it's innocent , returned the hostess , 'or I shouldn't allow it . 
'Very well ! said Mark . 
There was so much reason in this that the landlady laughed again , suffered it to remain , and bade him say what he had to say , and be quick about it . 
But he was an impudent fellow , she added . 
'Ha ha ! I almost think I am ! cried Mark , 'though I never thought so before . 
'Don't talk about that any more . 
'No , no , but it an't nonsense , said Mark 'and I wish you'd attend . 
I don't know that it would be so , said Mark , 'but I don't know that it mightn't be . 
I am a roving sort of chap , I know . 
I'm always a thinking that with my good health and spirits it would be more creditable in me to be jolly where there's things a going on to make one dismal . 
It may be a mistake of mine you see , but nothing short of trying how it acts will set it right . 
'For you are a good man , she said looking into his face with a smile , which was rather serious for her . 
'And I do believe have been a better friend to me to night than ever I have had in all my life . 
'Oh ! as to that , you know , said Mark , 'that's nonsense . 
'Humming a tune as she goes , said Mark , listening , 'in case I should think she's at all put out , and should be made down hearted . 
He rose early next morning , and was a foot soon after sunrise . 
Somehow he had a kind of sense that his old mistress was peeping from her chamber window , but he couldn't make up his mind to look back . 
'Good b'ye one , good b'ye all ! cried Mark , waving his hat on the top of his walking stick , as he strode at a quick pace up the little street . 
I'm a coming out strong at last . 
These are the circumstances that would try a ordinary mind but I'm uncommon jolly . 
Not quite as jolly as I could wish to be , but very near . 
And this , he said , was quite natural , and a very beautiful arrangement not confined to coaches , but extending itself into many social ramifications . 
, 'if every one were warm and well fed , we should lose the satisfaction of admiring the fortitude with which certain conditions of men bear cold and hunger . 
His children heard with becoming reverence these moral precepts from the lips of their father , and signified their acquiescence in the same , by smiles . 
And from the narrow neck of that stone vessel he imbibed a copious refreshment . 
'What are we ? said Mr Pecksniff , 'but coaches ? Some of us are slow coaches' 'Goodness , Pa ! cried Charity . 
'Some of us , I say , resumed her parent with increased emphasis , 'are slow coaches some of us are fast coaches . 
Our passions are the horses and rampant animals too ! 'Really , Pa , cried both the daughters at once . 
We start from The Mother's Arms , and we run to The Dust Shovel . 
When he had said this , Mr Pecksniff , being exhausted , took some further refreshment . 
When he had done that , he corked the bottle tight , with the air of a man who had effectually corked the subject also and went to sleep for three stages . 
The tendency of mankind when it falls asleep in coaches , is to wake up cross to find its legs in its way and its corns an aggravation . 
'Now mind , said a thin sharp voice in the dark . 
'I and my son go inside , because the roof is full , but you agree only to charge us outside prices . 
It's quite understood that we won't pay more . 
Is it ? 'All right , sir , replied the guard . 
'Is there anybody inside now ? inquired the voice . 
'Three passengers , returned the guard . 
'Then I ask the three passengers to witness this bargain , if they will be so good , said the voice . 
'My boy , I think we may safely get in . 
'That was lucky ! whispered the old man , when they moved on again . 
'And a great stroke of policy in you to observe it . 
He , he , he ! We couldn't have gone outside . 
'Hem ! I thought , said Mr Pecksniff , returning to his usual mildness , 'that I addressed a stranger . 
It is not MY desire to wound the feelings of any person with whom I am connected in family bonds . 
I may be a Hypocrite , said Mr Pecksniff , cuttingly 'but I am not a Brute . 
'Pooh , pooh ! said the old man . 
'What signifies that word , Pecksniff ? Hypocrite ! why , we are all hypocrites . 
We were all hypocrites t'other day . 
I am sure I felt that to be agreed upon among us , or I shouldn't have called you one . 
We should not have been there at all , if we had not been hypocrites . 
Now I , when I have a business scheme in hand , tell Jonas what it is , and we discuss it openly . 
You're not offended , Pecksniff ? 'Offended , my good sir ! cried that gentleman , as if he had received the highest compliments that language could convey . 
'Are you travelling to London , Mr Pecksniff ? asked the son . 
'Yes , Mr Jonas , we are travelling to London . 
We shall have the pleasure of your company all the way , I trust ? 'Oh ! ecod , you had better ask father that , said Jonas . 
'I am not a going to commit myself . 
Mr Pecksniff was , as a matter of course , greatly entertained by this retort . 
The education of Mr Jonas had been conducted from his cradle on the strictest principles of the main chance . 
But for two results , which were not clearly foreseen perhaps by his watchful parent in the beginning , his training may be said to have been unexceptionable . 
One of these flaws was , that having been long taught by his father to over reach everybody , he had imperceptibly acquired a love of over reaching that venerable monitor himself . 
'Lots of beaux in London , cousin ! said Mr Jonas , slightly advancing his elbow . 
'Indeed , sir ! cried the young lady . 
'They won't hurt us , sir , I dare say . 
And having given him this answer with great demureness she was so overcome by her own humour , that she was fain to stifle her merriment in her sister's shawl . 
'Merry , cried that more prudent damsel , 'really I am ashamed of you . 
How can you go on so ? You wild thing ! At which Miss Merry only laughed the more , of course . 
'I saw a wildness in her eye , t'other day , said Mr Jonas , addressing Charity . 
'But you're the one to sit solemn ! I say You were regularly prim , cousin ! Oh ! The old fashioned fright ! cried Merry , in a whisper . 
'Cherry my dear , upon my word you must sit next him . 
'Don't mind crowding me , cried Mr Jonas . 
'I like to be crowded by gals . 
Come a little closer , cousin . 
'No , thank you , sir , said Charity . 
'There's that other one a laughing again , said Mr Jonas 'she's a laughing at my father , I shouldn't wonder . 
If he puts on that old flannel nightcap of his , I don't know what she'll do ! Is that my father a snoring , Pecksniff ? 'Yes , Mr Jonas . 
'Tread upon his foot , will you be so good ? said the young gentleman . 
'The foot next you's the gouty one . 
Do you ever have the nightmare , cousin ? he asked his neighbour , with characteristic gallantry , as he dropped his voice again . 
'The other one , said Mr Jonas , after a pause . 
'Does SHE ever have the nightmare ? 'I don't know , replied Charity . 
'You had better ask her . 
'She laughs so , said Jonas 'there's no talking to her . 
Only hark how she's a going on now ! You're the sensible one , cousin ! 'Tut , tut ! cried Charity . 
'Oh ! But you are ! You know you are ! 'Mercy is a little giddy , said Miss Charity . 
But she'll sober down in time . 
'It'll be a very long time , then , if she does at all , rejoined her cousin . 
'Take a little more room . 
'I am afraid of crowding you , said Charity . 
These arrangements concluded , and the coach being ready , they got into their old places and jogged on again . 
I really feel at such times as if I was doing a public service . 
The rest of the night wore away in the usual manner . 
The coach stopped and went on , and went on and stopped , times out of number . 
At length they began to jolt and rumble over horribly uneven stones , and Mr Pecksniff looking out of window said it was to morrow morning , and they were there . 
said to another , was Snow . 
It seemed that M. Todgers was not up yet , for Mr Pecksniff knocked twice and rang thrice , without making any impression on anything but a dog over the way . 
rubbed the nose just mentioned with the back of a shoe brush , and said nothing . 
'Still a bed my man ? asked Mr Pecksniff . 
'Still a bed ! replied the boy . 
'I wish they wos still a bed . 
They're very noisy a bed all calling for their boots at once . 
I thought you was the Paper , and wondered why you didn't shove yourself through the grating as usual . 
What do you want ? Considering his years , which were tender , the youth may be said to have preferred this question sternly , and in something of a defiant manner . 
'Or if there's one in the eating parlour , said Mr Pecksniff , 'I can find it myself . 
M. Todgers's Commercial Boarding House was a house of that sort which is likely to be dark at any time but that morning it was especially dark . 
In particular , there was a sensation of cabbage as if all the greens that had ever been boiled there , were evergreens , and flourished in immortal strength . 
The parlour was wainscoted , and communicated to strangers a magnetic and instinctive consciousness of rats and mice . 
The staircase was very gloomy and very broad , with balustrades so thick and heavy that they would have served for a bridge . 
It had not been papered or painted , hadn't Todgers's , within the memory of man . 
It was very black , begrimed , and mouldy . 
She had a little basket on her arm , and in it a bunch of keys that jingled as she came . 
'Mr Pecksniff ! cried Mrs Todgers . 
'Why , you are younger than you used to be ! 'YOU are , I am sure ! said Mrs Todgers . 
'You're not a bit changed . 
'What do you say to this ? cried Mr Pecksniff , stretching out his hand towards the young ladies . 
'Does this make me no older ? 'Not your daughters ! exclaimed the lady , raising her hands and clasping them . 
'Oh , no , Mr Pecksniff ! Your second , and her bridesmaid ! Mr Pecksniff smiled complacently shook his head and said , 'My daughters , Mrs Todgers . 
'Ah ! sighed the good lady , 'I must believe you , for now I look at 'em I think I should have known 'em anywhere . 
'Now , my good madam , said Mr Pecksniff , 'I know the rules of your establishment , and that you only receive gentlemen boarders . 
But it occurred to me , when I left home , that perhaps you would give my daughters house room , and make an exception in their favour . 
'Perhaps ? cried Mrs Todgers ecstatically . 
'Perhaps ? 'I may say then , that I was sure you would , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'I know that you have a little room of your own , and that they can be comfortable there , without appearing at the general table . 
'Dear girls ! said Mrs Todgers . 
'I must take that liberty once more . 
Mrs Todgers meant by this that she must embrace them once more , which she accordingly did with great ardour . 
'I think I know how to arrange it , said Mrs Todgers , at length . 
'A sofa bedstead in the little third room which opens from my own parlour . 
of not being overlooked as they would see when the fog cleared off . 
Nor was this a vainglorious boast , for it commanded at a perspective of two feet , a brown wall with a black cistern on the top . 
The sleeping apartment designed for the young ladies was approached from this chamber by a mightily convenient little door , which would only open when fallen against by a strong person . 
It commanded from a similar point of sight another angle of the wall , and another side of the cistern . 
'Not the damp side , said Mrs Todgers . 
, and being afterwards taken by that lady in the fact , was dismissed with a box on his ears . 
Having prepared breakfast for the young ladies with her own hands , she withdrew to preside in the other room where the joke at Mr Jinkins's expense seemed to be proceeding rather noisily . 
'I won't ask you yet , my dears , said Mr Pecksniff , looking in at the door , 'how you like London . 
Shall I ? 'We haven't seen much of it , Pa ! cried Merry . 
'Nothing , I hope , said Cherry . 
'Indeed , said Mr Pecksniff , 'that's true . 
We have our pleasure , and our business too , before us . 
CHAPTER NINE TOWN AND TODGER'S Surely there never was , in any other borough , city , or hamlet in the world , such a singular sort of a place as Todgers's . 
You couldn't walk about Todgers's neighbourhood , as you could in any other neighbourhood . 
You groped your way for an hour through lanes and byways , and court yards , and passages and you never once emerged upon anything that might be reasonably called a street . 
Nobody had ever found Todgers's on a verbal direction , though given within a few minutes' walk of it . 
Strange solitary pumps were found near Todgers's hiding themselves for the most part in blind alleys , and keeping company with fire ladders . 
There were churches also by dozens , with many a ghostly little churchyard , all overgrown with such straggling vegetation as springs up spontaneously from damp , and graves , and rubbish . 
as birds in cages have of theirs . 
These were , in general , ancient inhabitants of that region born , and bred there from boyhood . 
who had long since become wheezy and asthmatical , and short of breath , except in the article of story telling in which respect they were still marvellously long winded . 
The top of the house was worthy of notice . 
Then there were steeples , towers , belfries , shining vanes , and masts of ships a very forest . 
Gables , housetops , garret windows , wilderness upon wilderness . 
Smoke and noise enough for all the world at once . 
Others , of a crook backed shape , appeared to be maliciously holding themselves askew , that they might shut the prospect out and baffle Todgers's . 
The gambols of a piece of cloth upon the dyer's pole had far more interest for the moment than all the changing motion of the crowd . 
Who , it seemed , had cut his matrimonial career rather short , by unlawfully running away from his happiness , and establishing himself in foreign countries as a bachelor . 
'Your pa was once a little particular in his attentions , my dears , said Mrs Todgers , 'but to be your ma was too much happiness denied me . 
'It's a speaking likeness ! cried the two Miss Pecksniffs . 
'It was considered so once , said Mrs Todgers , warming herself in a gentlemanly manner at the fire 'but I hardly thought you would have known it , my loves . 
They would have known it anywhere . 
'The gravy alone , is enough to add twenty years to one's age , I do assure you . 
'Lor' ! cried the two Miss Pecksniffs . 
'The anxiety of that one item , my dears , said Mrs Todgers , 'keeps the mind continually upon the stretch . 
There is no such passion in human nature , as the passion for gravy among commercial gentlemen . 
It's nothing to say a joint won't yield a whole animal wouldn't yield the amount of gravy they expect each day at dinner . 
'We have always noticed it in him , you remember ? 'Yes , my dear , giggled Merry , 'but we have never given it him , you know . 
Any relation to the gentleman you were speaking of just now , Miss Pecksniff ? 'For goodness sake , Mrs Todgers , interposed the lively Merry , 'don't call him a gentleman . 
My dear Cherry , Pinch a gentleman ! The idea ! 'What a wicked girl you are ! cried Mrs Todgers , embracing her with great affection . 
The ugliest , awkwardest frightfullest being , you can imagine . 
This is his sister , so I leave you to suppose what SHE is . 
I shall be obliged to laugh outright , I know I shall ! cried the charming girl , 'I never shall be able to keep my countenance . 
She was so very severe . 
'Who is severe ? cried a voice at the door . 
'How are we to day , said Mr Pecksniff , jocosely . 
'Why Mr Jinkins's ? 'Because he began to get it up , and indeed always takes the lead in the house , said Mrs Todgers , playfully . 
'Jinkins is a man of superior talents , observed Mr Pecksniff . 
'I have conceived a great regard for Jinkins . 
I take Jinkins's desire to pay polite attention to my daughters , as an additional proof of the friendly feeling of Jinkins , Mrs Todgers . 
'Well now , returned that lady , 'having said so much , you must say the rest , Mr Pecksniff so tell the dear young ladies all about it . 
Tom Pinch's sister was governess in a family , a lofty family perhaps the wealthiest brass and copper founders' family known to mankind . 
To this mansion Mr Pecksniff , accompanied by his daughters and Mrs Todgers , drove gallantly in a one horse fly . 
'Visitors for Miss Pinch ! said the footman . 
'Visitors for Miss Pinch ! Miss Pinch rose hastily with such tokens of agitation as plainly declared that her list of callers was not numerous . 
At the same time , the little pupil became alarmingly upright , and prepared herself to take mental notes of all that might be said and done . 
It is a melancholy fact but it must be related , that Mr Pinch's sister was not at all ugly . 
On the contrary , she had a good face a very mild and prepossessing face and a pretty little figure slight and short , but remarkable for its neatness . 
As to Mrs Todgers , she leaned on Mr Pecksniff's arm and preserved a kind of genteel grimness , suitable to any state of mind , and involving any shade of opinion . 
'Don't be alarmed , Miss Pinch , said Mr Pecksniff , taking her hand condescendingly in one of his , and patting it with the other . 
'I have called to see you , in pursuance of a promise given to your brother , Thomas Pinch . 
My name compose yourself , Miss Pinch is Pecksniff . 
But I have no pride , for I can afford to do without it ! The poor girl felt it all as if it had been Gospel truth . 
The young ladies too , she added , glancing gratefully at his two daughters , 'I know how much we owe to them . 
'My dears , said Mr Pecksniff , turning to them with a smile 'Thomas's sister is saying something you will be glad to hear , I think . 
'Oh very well , Miss Pinch ! thought the pupil again . 
'Very grateful very pleasant very proper , murmured Mr Pecksniff . 
And if ever the plain truth were spoken on this occasionally false earth , Tom's sister spoke it when she said that . 
'Ah ! cried Mr Pecksniff whose eyes had in the meantime wandered to the pupil 'certainly . 
And how do YOU do , my very interesting child ? 'Quite well , I thank you , sir , replied that frosty innocent . 
'A sweet face this , my dears , said Mr Pecksniff , turning to his daughters . 
Mrs Todgers vowed that anything one quarter so angelic she had never seen . 
'She wanted but a pair of wings , a dear , said that good woman , 'to be a young syrup' meaning , possibly , young sylph , or seraph . 
'Oh ! said Mr Pecksniff , 'Here is the young man . 
HE will take the card . 
With my compliments , if you please , young man . 
My dears , we are interrupting the studies . 
But Mr Pecksniff , with admirable presence of mind , recovered this document , and buttoned it up in his own pocket . 
God bless you ! You may depend upon my continued protection of your brother Thomas . 
Keep your mind quite at ease , Miss Pinch ! 'Thank you , said Tom's sister heartily 'a thousand times . 
'Not at all , he retorted , patting her gently on the head . 
You will make me angry if you do . 
My dears , are you ready ? They were not quite ready yet , for they were still caressing the pupil . 
But they tore themselves away at length and sweeping past Miss Pinch with each a haughty inclination of the head and a curtsey strangled in its birth , flounced into the passage . 
and giving it expression , in a loud voice and very learned terms . 
, but as an appropriate accompaniment to his salutation . 
'I have no doubt , my dears , said Mr Pecksniff , feigning to point out other beauties with his hand , 'that this is the proprietor . 
I should be glad to know him . 
It might lead to something . 
Is he looking this way , Charity ? 'He is opening the window pa ! 'Ha , ha ! cried Mr Pecksniff softly . 
'All right ! He has found I'm professional . 
He heard me inside just now , I have no doubt . 
Don't look ! With regard to the fluted pillars in the portico , my dears 'Hallo ! cried the gentleman . 
'Sir , your servant ! said Mr Pecksniff , taking off his hat . 
'I am proud to make your acquaintance . 
'Come off the grass , will you ! roared the gentleman . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , said Mr Pecksniff , doubtful of his having heard aright . 
'Did you ? 'Come off the grass ! repeated the gentleman , warmly . 
'We are unwilling to intrude , sir , Mr Pecksniff smilingly began . 
'But you ARE intruding , returned the other , 'unwarrantably intruding . 
Mr Pecksniff put on his hat , and walked with great deliberation and in profound silence to the fly , gazing at the clouds as he went , with great interest . 
But his daughters , less tranquil minded , burst into a torrent of indignation . 
This came , they said , of cherishing such creatures as the Pinches . 
This came of lowering themselves to their level . 
This came of putting themselves in the humiliating position of seeming to know such bold , audacious , cunning , dreadful girls as that . 
They had predicted it to Mrs Todgers , as she could depone , that very morning . 
, that he was a brute and a bear and then they merged into a flood of tears , which swept away all wandering epithets before it . 
'I say , he whispered , stopping in one of his journeys to and fro , 'young ladies , there's soup to morrow . 
She's a making it now . 
An't she a putting in the water ? Oh ! not at all neither ! In the course of answering another knock , he thrust in his head again . 
'I say ! There's fowls to morrow . 
Oh no ! Presently he called through the key hole 'There's a fish to morrow . 
Don't eat none of him ! And , with this special warning , vanished again . 
When he had completed his preparations , he grinned at the sisters , and expressed his belief that the approaching collation would be of 'rather a spicy sort . 
'Will it be long , before it's ready , Bailey ? asked Mercy . 
'No , said Bailey , 'it IS cooked . 
When I come up , she was dodging among the tender pieces with a fork , and eating of 'em . 
'Oh you little villain ! said that lady . 
'Oh you bad , false boy ! 'No worse than yerself , retorted Bailey , guarding his head , on a principle invented by Mr Thomas Cribb . 
'Ah ! Come now ! Do that again , will yer ? 'He's the most dreadful child , said Mrs Todgers , setting down the dish , 'I ever had to deal with . 
The gentlemen spoil him to that extent , and teach him such things , that I'm afraid nothing but hanging will ever do him any good . 
'Won't it ! cried Bailey . 
Benjamin was supposed to be the real name of this young retainer but he was known by a great variety of names . 
called him 'collars' on the spot . 
It was floor clothed all over and the ceiling , including a great beam in the middle , was papered . 
had two great glass eyes in its forehead , with an inquisitive green pupil in the middle of each . 
Here the gentlemen were all assembled . 
Then the presentations took place . 
Mr Jinkins was of a fashionable turn being a regular frequenter of the Parks on Sundays , and knowing a great many carriages by sight . 
He spoke mysteriously , too , of splendid women , and was suspected of having once committed himself with a Countess . 
Mr Jinkins it may be added , was much the oldest of the party being a fish salesman's book keeper , aged forty . 
He was the oldest boarder also and in right of his double seniority , took the lead in the house , as Mrs Todgers had already said . 
some sarcastic stanzas he had recently produced on the freezing of the tank at the back of the house . 
it clearly was , to look after them . 
Besides which , there were bottles of stout , bottles of wine , bottles of ale , and divers other strong drinks , native and foreign . 
'In short , as that young lady observed , 'they felt now , indeed , that they were in London , and for the first time too . 
, he let it go with perfect good breeding , and never added to the painful emotions of the company by exhibiting the least regret . 
Quarts of almonds dozens of oranges pounds of raisins stacks of biffins soup plates full of nuts . 
Oh , Todgers's could do it when it chose ! mind that . 
, is about to leave the firmament . 
'Miss Pecksniff ! says Mrs Todgers , softly , 'will you ? 'Oh dear , no more , Mrs Todgers . 
Mrs Todgers rises the two Miss Pecksniffs rise all rise . 
Miss Mercy Pecksniff looks downward for her scarf . 
Where is it ? Dear me , where CAN it be ? Sweet girl , she has it on not on her fair neck , but loose upon her flowing figure . 
A dozen hands assist her . 
The youngest gentleman in company thirsts to murder Jinkins . 
She skips and joins her sister at the door . 
Her sister has her arm about the waist of Mrs Todgers . 
She winds her arm around her sister . 
Diana , what a picture ! The last things visible are a shape and a skip . 
'Gentlemen , let us drink the ladies ! The enthusiasm is tremendous . 
The gentleman of a debating turn rises in the midst , and suddenly lets loose a tide of eloquence which bears down everything before it . 
He is reminded of a toast a toast to which they will respond . 
There is an individual present he has him in his eye to whom they owe a debt of gratitude . 
He repeats it a debt of gratitude . 
Their rugged natures have been softened and ameliorated that day , by the society of lovely woman . 
There is a gentleman in company whom two accomplished and delightful females regard with veneration , as the fountain of their existence . 
Yes , when yet the two Miss Pecksniffs lisped in language scarce intelligible , they called that individual 'Father ! There is great applause . 
He gives them 'Mr Pecksniff , and God bless him ! They all shake hands with Mr Pecksniff , as they drink the toast . 
The youngest gentleman in company does so with a thrill for he feels that a mysterious influence pervades the man who claims that being in the pink scarf for his daughter . 
What saith Mr Pecksniff in reply ? Or rather let the question be , What leaves he unsaid ? Nothing . 
More punch is called for , and produced , and drunk . 
Every man comes out freely in his own character . 
The gentleman of a theatrical turn recites . 
The vocal gentleman regales them with a song . 
Gander leaves the Gander of all former feasts whole leagues behind . 
HE rises to propose a toast . 
It is , The Father of Todgers's . 
It is their common friend Jink it is old Jink , if he may call him by that familiar and endearing appellation . 
The youngest gentleman in company utters a frantic negative . 
He won't have it he can't bear it it mustn't be . 
But his depth of feeling is misunderstood . 
He is supposed to be a little elevated and nobody heeds him . 
Mr Jinkins thanks them from his heart . 
It is , by many degrees , the proudest day in his humble career . 
When he looks around him on the present occasion , he feels that he wants words in which to express his gratitude . 
One thing he will say . 
He hopes it has been shown that Todgers's can be true to itself and that , an opportunity arising , it can come out quite as strong as its neighbours perhaps stronger . 
He reminds them , amidst thunders of encouragement , that they have heard of a somewhat similar establishment in Cannon Street and that they have heard it praised . 
such a dinner as that of which they have just partaken , he will be happy to talk to it . 
Until then , gentlemen , he will stick to Todgers's . 
More punch , more enthusiasm , more speeches . 
Everybody's health is drunk , saving the youngest gentleman's in company . 
He sits apart , with his elbow on the back of a vacant chair , and glares disdainfully at Jinkins . 
Gander , in a convulsing speech , gives them the health of Bailey junior hiccups are heard and a glass is broken . 
Mr Jinkins feels that it is time to join the ladies . 
He proposes , as a final sentiment , Mrs Todgers . 
She is worthy to be remembered separately . 
So she is no doubt of it . 
They all find fault with her at other times but every man feels now , that he could die in her defence . 
She is rising hastily , when Mr Jinkins implores her , for all their sakes , not to stir she looks too graceful and too lovely , he remarks , to be disturbed . 
She laughs , and yields , and fans herself , and drops her fan , and there is a rush to pick it up . 
Bailey brings up the tea and coffee . 
There is a small cluster of admirers round Charity but they are only those who cannot get near her sister . 
The youngest gentleman in company is pale , but collected , and still sits apart for his spirit loves to hold communion with itself , and his soul recoils from noisy revellers . 
She has a consciousness of his presence and adoration . 
He sees it flashing sometimes in the corner of her eye . 
He had also spilt a cup of coffee over his legs without appearing to be aware of the circumstance nor did he seem to know that there was muffin on his knee . 
'And how have they used you downstairs , sir ? asked the hostess . 
'Their conduct has been such , my dear madam , said Mr Pecksniff , 'as I can never think of without emotion , or remember without a tear . 
Oh , Mrs Todgers ! 'My goodness ! exclaimed that lady . 
I am also a widower . 
My feelings , Mrs Todgers , will not consent to be entirely smothered , like the young children in the Tower . 
They are grown up , and the more I press the bolster on them , the more they look round the corner of it . 
'She was beautiful , Mrs Todgers , he said , turning his glazed eye again upon her , without the least preliminary notice . 
'She had a small property . 
'So I have heard , cried Mrs Todgers with great sympathy . 
'Those are her daughters , said Mr Pecksniff , pointing out the young ladies , with increased emotion . 
Mrs Todgers had no doubt about it . 
'Mercy and Charity , said Mr Pecksniff , 'Charity and Mercy . 
Not unholy names , I hope ? 'Mr Pecksniff ! cried Mrs Todgers . 
'What a ghastly smile ! Are you ill , sir ? He pressed his hand upon her arm , and answered in a solemn manner , and a faint voice , 'Chronic . 
'Cholic ? cried the frightened Mrs Todgers . 
'Chron ic , he repeated with some difficulty . 
I have been its victim from childhood . 
It is carrying me to my grave . 
'Heaven forbid ! cried Mrs Todgers . 
'Yes , it is , said Mr Pecksniff , reckless with despair . 
'I am rather glad of it , upon the whole . 
You are like her , Mrs Todgers . 
'Don't squeeze me so tight , pray , Mr Pecksniff . 
If any of the gentlemen should notice us . 
'For her sake , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Permit me in honour of her memory . 
For the sake of a voice from the tomb . 
You are VERY like her Mrs Todgers ! What a world this is ! 'Ah ! Indeed you may say that ! cried Mrs Todgers . 
'I'm afraid it is a vain and thoughtless world , said Mr Pecksniff , overflowing with despondency . 
'These young people about us . 
Oh ! what sense have they of their responsibilities ? None . 
Give me your other hand , Mrs Todgers . 
The lady hesitated , and said 'she didn't like . 
'Has a voice from the grave no influence ? said Mr Pecksniff , with , dismal tenderness . 
'This is irreligious ! My dear creature . 
'Hush ! urged Mrs Todgers . 
'It's not me , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Don't suppose it's me it's the voice it's her voice . 
But perhaps this was delusion on his part . 
'It has been a day of enjoyment , Mrs Todgers , but still it has been a day of torture . 
It has reminded me of my loneliness . 
What am I in the world ? 'An excellent gentleman , Mr Pecksniff , said Mrs Todgers . 
'There is consolation in that too , cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'Am I ? 'There is no better man living , said Mrs Todgers , 'I am sure . 
Mr Pecksniff smiled through his tears , and slightly shook his head . 
'You are very good , he said , 'thank you . 
It is a great happiness to me , Mrs Todgers , to make young people happy . 
The happiness of my pupils is my chief object . 
They dote upon me too sometimes . 
'Always , said Mrs Todgers . 
'Base wretches they must be ! said Mrs Todgers . 
'Madam , said Mr Pecksniff , 'you are right . 
I respect you for that observation . 
A word in your ear . 
This is in confidence , Mrs Todgers ? 'The strictest , of course ! cried that lady . 
'To Parents and Guardians , repeated Mr Pecksniff . 
But Mr Pecksniff held up his finger as a caution to her not to interrupt him . 
Do you know of any orphan with three or four hundred pound ? Mrs Todgers reflected , and shook her head . 
I don't know who he is exactly . 
Don't be alarmed , Mrs Todgers , said Mr Pecksniff , falling heavily against her 'Chronic chronic ! Let's have a little drop of something to drink . 
Gradually it gave place to a smile a feeble , helpless , melancholy smile bland , almost to sickliness . 
'Do not repine , my friends , said Mr Pecksniff , tenderly . 
'Do not weep for me . 
And with these words , after making a futile attempt to pull off his shoes , he fell into the fireplace . 
The youngest gentleman in company had him out in a second . 
Yes , before a hair upon his head was singed , he had him on the hearth rug her father ! She was almost beside herself . 
At last they gathered round , and agreed to carry him upstairs to bed . 
The youngest gentleman in company was rebuked by Jinkins for tearing Mr Pecksniff's coat ! Ha , ha ! But no matter . 
They carried him upstairs , and crushed the youngest gentleman at every step . 
His bedroom was at the top of the house , and it was a long way but they got him there in course of time . 
He asked them frequently on the road for a little drop of something to drink . 
The youngest gentleman in company proposed a draught of water . 
Mr Pecksniff called him opprobious names for the suggestion . 
But before they had all gained the bottom of the staircase , a vision of Mr Pecksniff , strangely attired , was seen to flutter on the top landing . 
He desired to collect their sentiments , it seemed , upon the nature of human life . 
'My friends , cried Mr Pecksniff , looking over the banisters , 'let us improve our minds by mutual inquiry and discussion . 
Where is Jinkins ? 'Here , cried that gentleman . 
'Go to bed again' 'To bed ! said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Bed ! 'Tis the voice of the sluggard , I hear him complain , you have woke me too soon , I must slumber again . 
If any young orphan will repeat the remainder of that simple piece from Doctor Watts's collection , an eligible opportunity now offers . 
'This is very soothing , said Mr Pecksniff , after a pause . 
Cool and refreshing particularly to the legs ! The legs of the human subject , my friends , are a beautiful production . 
Compare them with wooden legs , and observe the difference between the anatomy of nature and the anatomy of art . 
To which Mr Bailey modestly replied that 'he hoped he knowed wot o'clock it wos in gineral , and didn't date his letters to his friends from Todgers's for nothing . 
CHAPTER TEN CONTAINING STRANGE MATTER , ON WHICH MANY EVENTS IN THIS HISTORY MAY , FOR THEIR GOOD OR EVIL INFLUENCE , CHIEFLY DEPEND But Mr Pecksniff came to town on business . 
But all men have to wait for time and tide . 
That tide which , taken at the flood , would lead Seth Pecksniff on to fortune , was marked down in the table , and about to flow . 
The trustfulness of his two fair daughters was beautiful indeed . 
They had that firm reliance on their parent's nature , which taught them to feel certain that in all he did he had his purpose straight and full before him . 
And that its noble end and object was himself , which almost of necessity included them , they knew . 
The devotion of these maids was perfect . 
Their filial confidence was rendered the more touching , by their having no knowledge of their parent's real designs , in the present instance . 
All that they knew of his proceedings was , that every morning , after the early breakfast , he repaired to the post office and inquired for letters . 
That task performed , his business for the day was over and he again relaxed , until the rising of another sun proclaimed the advent of another post . 
This went on for four or five days . 
, we needn't stop to inquire . 
My dears , I have my thoughts upon the subject , but I will not impart them . 
It is enough that we will not be proud , resentful , or unforgiving . 
If he wants our friendship he shall have it . 
It had been lying there some days . 
The superscription was in Mr Pecksniff's hand , and it was sealed with Mr Pecksniff's seal . 
The old gentleman tore off the direction scattering the rest in fragments to the winds and giving it to the coachman , bade him drive as near that place as he could . 
In pursuance of these instructions he was driven to the Monument where he again alighted , and dismissed the vehicle , and walked towards Todgers's . 
Shaking off his incertitude as the air parted with the sound of the bells , he walked rapidly to the house , and knocked at the door . 
Mr Pecksniff was seated in the landlady's little room , and his visitor found him reading by an accident he apologised for it an excellent theological work . 
There were cake and wine upon a little table by another accident , for which he also apologised . 
Indeed he said , he had given his visitor up , and was about to partake of that simple refreshment with his children , when he knocked at the door . 
'Your daughters are well ? said old Martin , laying down his hat and stick . 
Mr Pecksniff endeavoured to conceal his agitation as a father when he answered Yes , they were . 
They were good girls , he said , very good . 
He would not venture to recommend Mr Chuzzlewit to take the easy chair , or to keep out of the draught from the door . 
If he made any such suggestion , he would expose himself , he feared , to most unjust suspicion . 
He would , therefore , content himself with remarking that there was an easy chair in the room , and that the door was far from being air tight . 
This latter imperfection , he might perhaps venture to add , was not uncommonly to be met with in old houses . 
'At YOUR cost , my good sir ! cried Mr Pecksniff , in a tone of great surprise . 
'It is not , said Martin , waving his hand impatiently , 'my habit to put my well ! my relatives to any personal expense to gratify my caprices . 
'Caprices , my good sir ! cried Mr Pecksniff 'That is scarcely the proper word either , in this instance , said the old man . 
Mr Pecksniff was inwardly very much relieved to hear it , though he didn't at all know why . 
'You are right , repeated Martin . 
'It is not a caprice . 
It is built up on reason , proof , and cool comparison . 
Moreover , I am not a capricious man . 
'Most assuredly not , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'How do you know ? returned the other quickly . 
'You are to begin to know it now . 
You are to test and prove it , in time to come . 
You and yours are to find that I can be constant , and am not to be diverted from my end . 
Do you hear ? 'Perfectly , said Mr Pecksniff . 
I very much regret that I laid open to you what were then my thoughts of you , so freely as I did . 
'My noble sir ! cried Mr Pecksniff , catching at his outstretched hand . 
And so enough of that . 
I regret having been severed from you so long . 
If I had known you sooner , and sooner used you as you well deserve , I might have been a happier man . 
Mr Pecksniff looked up to the ceiling , and clasped his hands in rapture . 
'Your daughters , said Martin , after a short silence . 
'I don't mean in person , said the old man . 
''Tis not for me to say , retorted Mr Pecksniff with a gentle smile . 
'I have done my best , sir . 
'Come down into the back parlour , if you please , my love , said Mr Pecksniff , 'and bring your sister with you . 
, singing as they came . 
Nothing could exceed the astonishment of the two Miss Pecksniffs when they found a stranger with their dear papa . 
The old man looked attentively from one to the other , and then at Mr Pecksniff , several times . 
Your humble autographs are of no value in themselves , but affection may prize them . 
'Affection , said the old man , 'will expend itself on the living originals . 
Do not trouble yourselves , my girls , I shall not so easily forget you , Charity and Mercy , as to need such tokens of remembrance . 
Cousin ! 'Sir ! said Mr Pecksniff , with alacrity . 
'Do you never sit down ? 'Why yes occasionally , sir , said Mr Pecksniff , who had been standing all this time . 
'You are very lenient with me . 
My dears , you remember ? Oh vividly ! A thousand times ! 'We uttered no complaint , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Occasionally we had the presumption to console ourselves with the remark that Truth would in the end prevail , and Virtue be triumphant but not often . 
You spoke to me , disinterestedly , on behalf of I needn't name him . 
You know whom I mean . 
Trouble was expressed in Mr Pecksniff's visage , as he pressed his hot hands together , and replied , with humility , 'Quite disinterestedly , sir , I assure you . 
'I know it , said old Martin , in his quiet way . 
'I am sure of it . 
You felt for me , and drew them off , for which I owe you many thanks . 
Although I left the place , I know what passed behind my back , you see ! 'You amaze me , sir ! cried Mr Pecksniff which was true enough . 
'My knowledge of your proceedings , said the old man , does not stop at this . 
You have a new inmate in your house . 
'Yes , sir , rejoined the architect , 'I have . 
'He must quit it' said Martin . 
'For for yours ? asked Mr Pecksniff , with a quavering mildness . 
'For any shelter he can find , the old man answered . 
'I hope not' said Mr Pecksniff , eagerly . 
I have been extremely well disposed towards that young man . 
I hope it cannot be shown that he has forfeited all claim to my protection . 
Deceit deceit , my dear Mr Chuzzlewit , would be final . 
I should hold myself bound , on proof of deceit , to renounce him instantly . 
'This is becoming tremendous ! 'You know the fact ? repeated Martin 'Surely not without his grandfather's consent and approbation my dear sir ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
For the honour of human nature , say you're not about to tell me that ! 'I thought he had suppressed it , said the old man . 
The indignation felt by Mr Pecksniff at this terrible disclosure , was only to be equalled by the kindling anger of his daughters . 
'I will not deny that it is a pleasure to me to find you so full of zeal . 
We will consider that topic as disposed of . 
'No , my dear sir , cried Mr Pecksniff , 'not as disposed of , until I have purged my house of this pollution . 
'That will follow , said the old man , 'in its own time . 
I look upon that as done . 
'You are very good , sir , answered Mr Pecksniff , shaking his hand . 
You MAY look upon it as done , I assure you . 
'There is another topic , said Martin , 'on which I hope you will assist me . 
You remember Mary , cousin ? 'The young lady that I mentioned to you , my dears , as having interested me so very much , remarked Mr Pecksniff . 
'Excuse my interrupting you , sir . 
'I told you her history ? said the old man . 
'Which I also mentioned , you will recollect , my dears , cried Mr Pecksniff . 
But I find you have no jealousies ! Well ! You have no cause for any , to be sure . 
She has nothing to gain from me , my dears , and she knows it . 
The two Miss Pecksniffs murmured their approval of this wise arrangement , and their cordial sympathy with its interesting object . 
'If I could have anticipated what has come to pass between us four , said the old man thoughfully 'but it is too late to think of that . 
During the whole of the foregoing dialogue , he had borne his part with a cold , passionless promptitude , as though he had learned and painfully rehearsed it all a hundred times . 
Even when his expressions were warmest and his language most encouraging , he had retained the same manner , without the least abatement . 
'Of this new understanding between us . 
'A great many , rejoined the old man . 
'Some will say that I dote in my old age that illness has shaken me that I have lost all strength of mind , and have grown childish . 
You can bear that ? Mr Pecksniff answered that it would be dreadfully hard to bear , but he thought he could , if he made a great effort . 
You can bear that ? Mr Pecksniff made reply that this would be also very hard to bear , as reflecting , in some degree , on the discernment of Mr Chuzzlewit . 
Still he had a modest confidence that he could sustain the calumny , with the help of a good conscience , and that gentleman's friendship . 
, would bear anything whatever ! 'Enough , said Martin . 
'You can charge no consequences on me . 
When do you retire home ? 'Whenever you please , my dear sir . 
To night if you desire it . 
'I desire nothing , returned the old man , 'that is unreasonable . 
Such a request would be . 
As to his daughters the words , 'Let us be at home on Saturday , dear pa , were actually upon their lips . 
'Your expenses , cousin , said Martin , taking a folded slip of paper from his pocketbook , 'may possibly exceed that amount . 
If so , let me know the balance that I owe you , when we next meet . 
It would be useless if I told you where I live just now indeed , I have no fixed abode . 
When I have , you shall know it . 
You and your daughters may expect to see me before long in the meantime I need not tell you that we keep our own confidence . 
What you will do when you get home is understood between us . 
Give me no account of it at any time and never refer to it in any way . 
I ask that as a favour . 
I am commonly a man of few words , cousin and all that need be said just now is said , I think . 
'One glass of wine one morsel of this homely cake ? cried Mr Pecksniff , venturing to detain him . 
'My dears ! The sisters flew to wait upon him . 
'Poor girls ! said Mr Pecksniff . 
'You will excuse their agitation , my dear sir . 
They are made up of feeling . 
'Mercy , by five years , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'We sometimes venture to consider her rather a fine figure , sir . 
Speaking as an artist , I may perhaps be permitted to suggest that its outline is graceful and correct . 
'She seems to have a lively disposition , observed Martin . 
'Dear me ! said Mr Pecksniff . 
You have defined her character , my dear sir , as correctly as if you had known her from her birth . 
She HAS a lively disposition . 
I assure you , my dear sir , that in our unpretending home her gaiety is delightful . 
'No doubt , returned the old man . 
A wonderful affection between them , my dear sir ! Allow me to drink your health . 
Bless you ! 'I little thought , retorted Martin , 'but a month ago , that I should be breaking bread and pouring wine with you . 
Not at all abashed by the extraordinary abruptness with which these latter words were spoken , Mr Pecksniff thanked him devoutly . 
'Now let me go , said Martin , putting down the wine when he had merely touched it with his lips . 
could scarcely choose but ask them what it meant and took them to task , in his gentle manner , for yielding to such light emotions . 
'If it was possible to divine any cause for this merriment , even the most remote , he said , 'I should not reprove you . 
But at that juncture they were disturbed by the sound of voices in dispute and as it proceeded from the next room , the subject matter of the altercation quickly reached their ears . 
'I am quite certain you don't , sir , replied Mrs Todgers . 
'You have too independent a spirit , I know , to yield to anybody . 
There is no reason why you should give way to any gentleman . 
Everybody must be well aware of that . 
'I should think no more of admitting daylight into the fellow , said the youngest gentleman , in a desperate voice , 'than if he was a bulldog . 
'Let him be careful , said the youngest gentleman . 
No man shall step between me and the current of my vengeance . 
If I am driven to borrow 'em , and to send at friend to Jinkins , a tragedy will get into the papers . 
'I have borne this long enough , said the youngest gentleman but now my soul rebels against it , and I won't stand it any longer . 
The young gentleman was mistaken in this closing sentence , inasmuch as he never told it to Jinkins , but always to Mrs Todgers . 
'However , he said , 'these are not proper subjects for ladies' ears . 
All I've got to say to you , Mrs Todgers , is , a week's notice from next Saturday . 
The same house can't contain that miscreant and me any longer . 
If we get over the intermediate time without bloodshed , you may think yourself pretty fortunate . 
I don't myself expect we shall . 
'Dear , dear ! cried Mrs Todgers , 'what would I have given to have prevented this ? To lose you , sir , would be like losing the house's right hand . 
'There's Jinkins , said the youngest gentleman , moodily . 
He'll console you , and the gentlemen too , for the loss of twenty such as me . 
I'm not understood in this house . 
'Don't run away with that opinion , sir ! cried Mrs Todgers , with a show of honest indignation . 
'Don't make such a charge as that against the establishment , I must beg of you . 
It is not so bad as that comes to , sir . 
Make any remark you please against the gentlemen , or against me but don't say you're not understood in this house . 
'I'm not treated as if I was , said the youngest gentleman . 
'There you make a great mistake , sir , returned Mrs Todgers , in the same strain . 
'As many of the gentlemen and I have often said , you are too sensitive . 
You are of too susceptible a nature it's in your spirit . 
Mr Jinkins is not such a boarder , sir , added Mrs Todgers , 'that all considerations of private feeling and respect give way before him . 
Quite the contrary , I assure you . 
So , in the end , the young gentleman withdrew his notice , and assured Mrs Todgers of his unalterable regard and having done so , went back to business . 
Now did you ever hear the like ? 'Never ! said the two Miss Pecksniffs . 
'Of all the ridiculous young fellows that ever I had to deal with , resumed Mrs Todgers , 'that is the most ridiculous and unreasonable . 
Mr Jinkins is hard upon him sometimes , but not half as hard as he deserves . 
The young ladies were greatly entertained by Mrs Todgers's account , no less than with certain anecdotes illustrative of the youngest gentleman's character , which she went on to tell them . 
'Eighteen shillings a week ! repeated Mr Pecksniff . 
'Taking one week with another as near that as possible , said Mrs Todgers . 
Mr Pecksniff rose from his chair , folded his arms , looked at her , and shook his head . 
'I must preserve peace among them , and keep my connection together , if possible , Mr Pecksniff . 
The profit is very small . 
'The profit ! cried that gentleman , laying great stress upon the word . 
'The profit , Mrs Todgers ! You amaze me ! He was so severe , that Mrs Todgers shed tears . 
'The profit ! repeated Mr pecksniff . 
'Oh Calf , Calf ! cried Mr Pecksniff mournfully . 
'A gentleman for me ! cried Charity , pausing in her work 'my gracious , Bailey ! 'Ah ! said Bailey . 
Miss Charity affected to reprove so great a liberty but she could not help smiling . 
He was a strange boy , to be sure . 
There was always some ground of probability and likelihood mingled with his absurd behaviour . 
That was the best of it ! 'But I don't know any gentlemen , Bailey , said Miss Pecksniff . 
'I think you must have made a mistake . 
Mr Bailey smiled at the extreme wildness of such a supposition , and regarded the young ladies with unimpaired affability . 
'My dear Merry , said Charity , 'who CAN it be ? Isn't it odd ? I have a great mind not to go to him really . 
'Quite impossible to divine ! said Charity , with some sharpness , 'though still , at the same time , you needn't be angry , my dear . 
'Thank you , retorted Merry , singing at her needle . 
'I am quite aware of that , my love . 
'I am afraid your head is turned , you silly thing , said Cherry . 
A manifestation so lively , brought to their immediate recollection the great virtuous precept , 'Keep up appearances whatever you do , in which they had been educated . 
By some strange occurrence of favourable circumstances he had found out the drawing room , and was sitting there alone . 
'Ah , cousin ! he said . 
'Here I am , you see . 
You thought I was lost , I'll be bound . 
Well ! how do you find yourself by this time ? Miss Charity replied that she was quite well , and gave Mr Jonas Chuzzlewit her hand . 
'That's right , said Mr Jonas , 'and you've got over the fatigues of the journey have you ? I say . 
How's the other one ? 'My sister is very well , I believe , returned the young lady . 
'I have not heard her complain of any indisposition , sir . 
Perhaps you would like to see her , and ask her yourself ? 'No , no cousin ! said Mr Jonas , sitting down beside her on the window seat . 
'Don't be in a hurry . 
There's no occasion for that , you know . 
What a cruel girl you are ! 'It's impossible for YOU to know , said Cherry , 'whether I am or not . 
'Well , perhaps it is , said Mr Jonas . 
'I say Did you think I was lost ? You haven't told me that . 
'I didn't think at all about it , answered Cherry . 
'Didn't you though ? said Jonas , pondering upon this strange reply . 
'Did the other one ? 'I am sure it's impossible for me to say what my sister may , or may not have thought on such a subject , cried Cherry . 
'She never said anything to me about it , one way or other . 
'Didn't she laugh about it ? inquired Jonas . 
She didn't even laugh about it , answered Charity . 
'She's a terrible one to laugh , an't she ? said Jonas , lowering his voice . 
'She is very lively , said Cherry . 
'Liveliness is a pleasant thing when it don't lead to spending money . 
An't it ? asked Mr Jonas . 
'Very much so , indeed , said Cherry , with a demureness of manner that gave a very disinterested character to her assent . 
'Such liveliness as yours I mean , you know , observed Mr Jonas , as he nudged her with his elbow . 
'I should have come to see you before , but I didn't know where you was . 
How quick you hurried off , that morning ! 'I was amenable to my papa's directions , said Miss Charity . 
'I wish he had given me his direction , returned her cousin , 'and then I should have found you out before . 
Why , I shouldn't have found you even now , if I hadn't met him in the street this morning . 
'I can't allow such a tone as that , even in jest . 
'Ecod , you may say what you like of MY father , then , and so I give you leave , said Jonas . 
'I think it's liquid aggravation that circulates through his veins , and not regular blood . 
How old should you think my father was , cousin ? 'Old , no doubt , replied Miss Charity 'but a fine old gentleman . 
'A fine old gentleman ! repeated Jonas , giving the crown of his hat an angry knock . 
'Ah ! It's time he was thinking of being drawn out a little finer too . 
Why , he's eighty ! 'Is he , indeed ? said the young lady . 
'And ecod , cried Jonas , 'now he's gone so far without giving in , I don't see much to prevent his being ninety no , nor even a hundred . 
Why , a man with any feeling ought to be ashamed of being eighty , let alone more . 
'But there's enough of my father , said Jonas 'it's of no use to go putting one's self out of the way by talking about HIM . 
Pecksniff will most likely look in in the evening , he says , and bring you home . 
See , here's his writing I made him put it down this morning when he told me he shouldn't be back before I came here in case you wouldn't believe me . 
She soon returned , accompanied by Miss Mercy , who was by no means pleased to leave the brilliant triumphs of Todgers's for the society of Mr Jonas and his respected father . 
'There you are , are you ? 'Yes , fright , said Mercy , 'here I am and I would much rather be anywhere else , I assure you . 
'You don't mean that , cried Mr Jonas . 
'You can't , you know . 
'You can have what opinion you like , fright , retorted Mercy . 
'I am content to keep mine and mine is that you are a very unpleasant , odious , disagreeable person . 
Here she laughed heartily , and seemed to enjoy herself very much . 
'Oh , you're a sharp gal ! said Mr Jonas . 
This threat had the desired effect of preventing any farther altercation , for Mr Jonas immediately proposed an adjournment , and the same being carried unanimously , they departed from the house straightway . 
This joke was of a practical kind , and its humour lay in taking a hackney coach to the extreme limits of possibility for a shilling . 
Happily it brought them to the place where Mr Jonas dwelt , or the young ladies might have rather missed the point and cream of the jest . 
Business , as may be readily supposed , was the main thing in this establishment insomuch indeed that it shouldered comfort out of doors , and jostled the domestic arrangements at every turn . 
It was meanly laid out now for dinner and in a chair before the fire sat Anthony himself , who rose to greet his son and his fair cousins as they entered . 
'Well , ghost ! said Mr Jonas , dutifully addressing his parent by that title . 
'Is dinner nearly ready ? 'I should think it was , rejoined the old man . 
'What's the good of that ? rejoined the son . 
'I should think it was . 
'Ah ! I don't know for certain , said Anthony . 
'You don't know for certain , rejoined his son in a lower tone . 
You don't know anything for certain , YOU don't . 
Give me your candle here . 
I want it for the gals . 
'Bachelor's Hall , you know , cousin , said Mr Jonas to Charity . 
'An't she lively ? whispered Mr Jonas to the elder sister , with his favourite elbow emphasis . 
'Oh I really don't know ! replied Miss Pecksniff , tartly . 
'I am tired of being asked such ridiculous questions . 
'What's that precious old father of mine about now ? said Mr Jonas , seeing that his parent was travelling up and down the room instead of taking his seat at table . 
'What are you looking for ? 'I've lost my glasses , Jonas , said old Anthony . 
'Sit down without your glasses , can't you ? returned his son . 
'You don't eat or drink out of 'em , I think and where's that sleepy headed old Chuffey got to ! Now , stupid . 
Oh ! you know your name , do you ? It would seem that he didn't , for he didn't come until the father called . 
He looked as if he had been put away and forgotten half a century before , and somebody had just found him in a lumber closet . 
Take him in that state , and he was an embodiment of nothing . 
'Our clerk , said Mr Jonas , as host and master of the ceremonies 'Old Chuffey . 
'Is he deaf ? inquired one of the young ladies . 
'No , I don't know that he is . 
He an't deaf , is he , father ? 'I never heard him say he was , replied the old man . 
'Blind ? inquired the young ladies . 
I never understood that he was at all blind , said Jonas , carelessly . 
'You don't consider him so , do you , father ? 'Certainly not , replied Anthony . 
'How very strange ! cried the sisters . 
he never left off casting up and he got to so many million at last that I don't believe he's ever been quite right since . 
We don't do much business now though , and he an't a bad clerk . 
'A very good one , said Anthony . 
'Well ! He an't a dear one at all events , observed Jonas 'and he earns his salt , which is enough for our look out . 
I was telling you that he hardly understands any one except my father he always understands him , though , and wakes up quite wonderful . 
'Has he no appetite ? asked Merry . 
'Oh , yes , said Jonas , plying his own knife and fork very fast . 
'He eats when he's helped . 
Now , Chuffey , stupid , are you ready ? Chuffey remained immovable . 
'Always a perverse old file , he was , said Mr Jonas , coolly helping himself to another slice . 
Quite ready , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
All ready , all ready , all ready . 
'He'll be very disagreeable , mind , said Jonas , addressing his cousins as he handed the old man's portion to his father . 
'He always chokes himself when it an't broth . 
The poor old subject of this humane speech was , happily for himself , as unconscious of its purport as of most other remarks that were made in his presence . 
But he did , unquestionably though not so much to do him justice with reference to their ancient clerk , as in exultation at the sharpness of Jonas . 
This is the heir of my bringing up . 
Sly , cunning , and covetous , he'll not squander my money . 
I worked for this I hoped for this it has been the great end and aim of my life . 
Anthony was better than these at any rate . 
'Aye , aye ! cried the old man , brightening up as before , when this was communicated to him in the same voice , 'quite right , quite right . 
, that he only laughed the more , and told his cousins that he was afraid one of these fine days , Chuffey would be the death of him . 
But he added with some haste after this sally that it was only his joke , and they wouldn't suppose him to be in earnest , he was sure . 
'I shall drink , said Anthony , 'to Pecksniff . 
Your father , my dears . 
A clever man , Pecksniff . 
A wary man ! A hypocrite , though , eh ? A hypocrite , girls , eh ? Ha , ha , ha ! Well , so he is . 
Now , among friends , he is . 
I don't think the worse of him for that , unless it is that he overdoes it . 
You may overdo anything , my darlings . 
You may overdo even hypocrisy . 
Ask Jonas ! 'You can't overdo taking care of yourself , observed that hopeful gentleman with his mouth full . 
'Do you hear that , my dears ? cried Anthony , quite enraptured . 
'Wisdom , wisdom ! A good exception , Jonas . 
No. It's not easy to overdo that . 
'Except , whispered Mr Jonas to his favourite cousin , 'except when one lives too long . 
Ha , ha ! Tell the other one that I say ! 'Good gracious me ! said Cherry , in a petulant manner . 
'You can tell her yourself , if you wish , can't you ? 'She seems to make such game of one , replied Mr Jonas . 
'Then why need you trouble yourself about her ? said Charity . 
'I am sure she doesn't trouble herself much about you . 
'Don't she though ? asked Jonas . 
'Good gracious me , need I tell you that she don't ? returned the young lady . 
Mr Jonas made no verbal rejoinder , but he glanced at Mercy with an odd expression in his face and said THAT wouldn't break his heart , she might depend upon it . 
Then he looked on Charity with even greater favour than before , and besought her , as his polite manner was , to 'come a little closer . 
'There's another thing that's not easily overdone , father , remarked Jonas , after a short silence . 
'What's that ? asked the father grinning already in anticipation . 
'A bargain , said the son . 
'Here's the rule for bargains Do other men , for they would do you . 
That's the true business precept . 
There was no reason to suppose that he went to sleep at these seasons , or that he heard , or saw , or felt , or thought . 
As to Anthony , he went to sleep outright , so Jonas and Cherry had a clear stage to themselves as long as they chose to keep possession of it . 
Mr Jonas informed them that these accomplishments were in high vogue in the most intellectual circles , and that large amounts were constantly changing hands on such hazards . 
His ignorance , which was stupendous , may be taken into account , if the reader pleases , separately . 
'Good night , said Anthony . 
'Good night remember me to ha , ha , ha ! to Pecksniff . 
Take care of your cousin , my dears beware of Jonas he's a dangerous fellow . 
Don't quarrel for him , in any case ! 'Oh , the creature ! cried Mercy . 
'The idea of quarrelling for HIM ! You may take him , Cherry , my love , all to yourself . 
I make you a present of my share . 
'What ! I'm a sour grape , am I , cousin ? said Jonas . 
Miss Charity was more entertained by this repartee than one would have supposed likely , considering its advanced age and simple character . 
would positively be obliged to hate him . 
Mercy , who really had her share of good humour , only retorted with a laugh and they walked home in consequence without any angry passages of words upon the way . 
I don't believe the gentlemen will be the gentlemen they were , or anything like it no , not for weeks to come . 
You have a great deal to answer for , both of you . 
They modestly disclaimed any wilful agency in this disastrous state of things , and regretted it very much . 
'Your pious pa , too , said Mrs Todgers . 
'There's a loss ! My dear Miss Pecksniffs , your pa is a perfect missionary of peace and love . 
Entertaining an uncertainty as to the particular kind of love supposed to be comprised in Mr Pecksniff's mission , the young ladies received the compliment rather coldly . 
But I mustn't do it , for I promised Mr Jinkins faithfully , that I would be as silent as the tomb . 
But this is the arrangement and I know you will be gratified , my dear Miss Pecksniffs , by such a mark of their attention . 
The young ladies were at first so much excited by the news , that they vowed they couldn't think of going to bed until the serenade was over . 
It was very affecting very . 
Nothing more dismal could have been desired by the most fastidious taste . 
The gentleman of a vocal turn was head mute , or chief mourner Jinkins took the bass and the rest took anything they could get . 
The youngest gentleman blew his melancholy into a flute . 
He didn't blow much out of it , but that was all the better . 
The flute of the youngest gentleman was wild and fitful . 
It came and went in gusts , like the wind . 
He was a tremendous performer . 
There was no knowing where to have him and exactly when you thought he was doing nothing at all , then was he doing the very thing that ought to astonish you most . 
There were several of these concerted pieces perhaps two or three too many , though that , as Mrs Todgers said , was a fault on the right side . 
He asked him distinctly , before the second song began as a personal favour too , mark the villain in that not to play . 
Yes he said so not to play . 
The breathing of the youngest gentleman was heard through the key hole of the door . 
What vent was a flute for the passions swelling up within his breast ? A trombone would have been a world too mild . 
The serenade approached its close . 
Its crowning interest was at hand . 
The gentleman of a literary turn had written a song on the departure of the ladies , and adapted it to an old tune . 
They all joined , except the youngest gentleman in company , who , for the reasons aforesaid , maintained a fearful silence . 
invoked the oracle of Apollo , and demanded to know what would become of Todgers's when CHARITY and MERCY were banished from its walls . 
The oracle delivered no opinion particularly worth remembering , according to the not infrequent practice of oracles from the earliest ages down to the present time . 
'Well , young ladies , said the youth , 'so you're a going home , are you , worse luck ? 'Yes , Bailey , we're going home , returned Mercy . 
'An't you a going to leave none of 'em a lock of your hair ? inquired the youth . 
'It's real , an't it ? They laughed at this , and told him of course it was . 
'Oh , is it of course , though ? said Bailey . 
'I know better than that . 
Why , I see it hanging up once , on that nail by the winder . 
Besides , I have gone behind her at dinner time and pulled it and she never know'd . 
I say , young ladies , I'm a going to leave . 
I an't a going to stand being called names by her , no longer . 
Miss Mercy inquired what his plans for the future might be in reply to whom Mr Bailey intimated that he thought of going either into top boots , or into the army . 
'Into the army ! cried the young ladies , with a laugh . 
'Ah ! said Bailey , 'why not ? There's a many drummers in the Tower . 
Don't their country set a valley on 'em , mind you ! Not at all ! 'You'll be shot , I see , observed Mercy . 
Wot , said Mr Bailey , stung by the recollection of his wrongs , 'wot , if they DO consume the per vishuns . 
It an't MY fault , is it ? 'Surely no one says it is , said Mercy . 
'Don't they though ? retorted the youth . 
Ah ! oh ! No one mayn't say it is ! but some one knows it is . 
But I an't a going to have every rise in prices wisited on me . 
I an't a going to be killed because the markets is dear . 
The bottle of wine was Mr Pecksniff's treat , and they were very sociable indeed though full of lamentations on the necessity of parting . 
While they were in the midst of their enjoyment , old Anthony and his son were announced much to the surprise of Mr Pecksniff , and greatly to the discomfiture of Jinkins . 
'Where's the use of a division between you and me ? We are the two halves of a pair of scissors , when apart , Pecksniff but together we are something . 
Eh ? 'Unanimity , my good sir , rejoined Mr Pecksniff , 'is always delightful . 
'I don't know about that , said the old man , 'for there are some people I would rather differ from than agree with . 
But you know my opinion of you . 
Mr Pecksniff , still having 'hypocrite' in his mind , only replied by a motion of his head , which was something between an affirmative bow , and a negative shake . 
'Complimentary , upon my word . 
It was an involuntary tribute to your abilities , even at the time and it was not a time to suggest compliments either . 
But we agreed in the coach , you know , that we quite understood each other . 
'Oh , quite ! assented Mr Pecksniff , in a manner which implied that he himself was misunderstood most cruelly , but would not complain . 
Anthony glanced at his son as he sat beside Miss Charity , and then at Mr Pecksniff , and then at his son again , very many times . 
'Jonas is a shrewd lad , said the old man . 
'He appears , rejoined Mr Pecksniff in his most candid manner , 'to be very shrewd . 
'And careful , said the old man . 
'And careful , I have no doubt , returned Mr Pecksniff . 
'Look ye ! said Anthony in his ear . 
'I think he is sweet upon you daughter . 
'Why , there is very little sweetness in that , according to our experience , returned Anthony . 
'Isn't there a trifle more here ? 'Impossible to say , rejoined Mr Pecksniff . 
'Quite impossible ! You surprise me . 
'Yes , I know that , said the old man , drily . 
'It may last I mean the sweetness , not the surprise and it may die off . 
, we might have a mutual interest in the matter . 
Mr Pecksniff , smiling gently , was about to speak , but Anthony stopped him . 
'I know what you are going to say . 
Thank you for your attention . 
We are now upon an equal footing which is agreeable to us both , I am sure . 
Thither the whole party repaired , therefore , after no more delay than sufficed for the equipment of the Miss Pecksniffs and Mrs Todgers . 
Nothing could equal the distress of Mrs Todgers in parting from the young ladies , except the strong emotions with which she bade adieu to Mr Pecksniff . 
For Jinkins , to the last the youngest gentleman's rock a head in life , stood upon the coachstep talking to the ladies . 
They were off now and Todgers's was alone again . 
The two young ladies , leaning back in their separate corners , resigned themselves to their own regretful thoughts . 
CHAPTER TWELVE WILL BE SEEN IN THE LONG RUN , IF NOT IN THE SHORT ONE , TO CONCERN MR PINCH AND OTHERS , NEARLY . 
MR PECKSNIFF ASSERTS THE DIGNITY OF OUTRAGED VIRTUE . 
Without being quite so sanguine himself , Martin had his hopeful anticipations too and they served to make him brisk and eager at his task . 
'What ? 'Why , your fortune . 
'No ! said Tom Pinch , quite as much delighted as if the thing were done . 
'Would you though ? How kind of you to say so . 
I'd be your patron , Tom . 
I'd take you under my protection . 
'I am afraid , said Tom , shaking his head , 'that I should be a mighty awkward person to provide for . 
'Pooh , pooh ! rejoined Martin . 
Besides , confound it , Tom , you could be useful to me in a hundred ways . 
'If I were not useful in one or two , it shouldn't be for want of trying , said Tom . 
, to have a man of your information about one , instead of some ordinary blockhead . 
Oh , I'd take care of you . 
He was much delighted , therefore , by these observations . 
'I should be married to her then , Tom , of course , said Martin . 
They'd be very fond of you , Tom . 
But not a word said Mr Pinch . 
The words he would have uttered died upon his lips , and found a life more spiritual in self denying thoughts . 
'All the children hereabouts are fond of you , Tom , and mine would be , of course , pursued Martin . 
'Perhaps I might name one of 'em after you . 
Tom , eh ? Well , I don't know . 
Tom's not a bad name . 
T. P. C. on his pinafores no objection to that , I should say ? Tom cleared his throat , and smiled . 
'SHE would like you , Tom , I know , said Martin . 
'Aye ! cried Tom Pinch , faintly . 
She would smile , Tom , often at first when you spoke to her , or when she looked at you merrily too but you wouldn't mind that . 
A brighter smile you never saw . 
'No , no , said Tom . 
'She would be as tender with you , Tom , said Martin , 'as if you were a child yourself . 
So you are almost , in some things , an't you , Tom ? Mr Pinch nodded his entire assent . 
I shall build an architectural music room on a plan of my own , and it'll look rather knowing in a recess at one end . 
But trust me , said Tom , 'that I am not ungrateful that I never forget and that if I can ever prove the truth of my words to you , I will . 
'That's all right , observed Martin , leaning back in his chair with a hand in each pocket , and yawning drearily . 
'Very fine talking , Tom but I'm at Pecksniff's , I remember , and perhaps a mile or so out of the high road to fortune just at this minute . 
What is it ? Northkey . 
'Westlock , rejoined Tom , in rather a louder tone than usual . 
'Ah ! to be sure , said Martin , 'Westlock . 
I knew it was something connected with a point of the compass and a door . 
Well ! and what says Westlock ? 'Oh ! he has come into his property , answered Tom , nodding his head , and smiling . 
'He's a lucky dog , said Martin . 
'I wish it were mine instead . 
Is that all the mystery you were to tell me ? 'No , said Tom 'not all . 
'What's the rest ? asked Martin . 
'For the matter of that , said Tom , 'it's no mystery , and you won't think much of it but it's very pleasant to me . 
John always used to say when he was here , Mark my words , Pinch . 
When my father's executors cash up he used strange expressions now and then , but that was his way . 
'Cash up's a very good expression , observed Martin , 'when other people don't apply it to you . 
Well ! What a slow fellow you are , Pinch ! 'Yes , I am I know , said Tom 'but you'll make me nervous if you tell me so . 
I'm afraid you have put me out a little now , for I forget what I was going to say . 
'When John's father's executors cashed up , said Martin impatiently . 
'Oh yes , to be sure , cried Tom 'yes . 
Then , says John , I'll give you a dinner , Pinch , and come down to Salisbury on purpose . 
'Very well , said Martin , glancing over it with his customary coolness 'much obliged to him . 
Tom could have wished him to be a little more astonished , a little more pleased , or in some form or other a little more interested in such a great event . 
But he was perfectly self possessed and falling into his favourite solace of whistling , took another turn at the grammar school , as if nothing at all had happened . 
It is an insult to the walk , to set them side by side . 
No man in a gig could see , or feel , or think , like merry users of their legs . 
, is quite put out of his pale countenance . 
'And this , said John , 'is Mr Chuzzlewit . 
I am very glad to see him ! John had an off hand manner of his own so they shook hands warmly , and were friends in no time . 
'Stand off a moment , Tom , cried the old pupil , laying one hand on each of Mr Pinch's shoulders , and holding him out at arm's length . 
'Let me look at you ! Just the same ! Not a bit changed ! 'Why , it's not so very long ago , you know , said Tom Pinch , 'after all . 
'It seems an age to me , cried John . 
'and so it ought to seem to you , you dog . 
Laughter won it and they all three laughed together . 
'I have ordered everything for dinner , that we used to say we'd have , Tom , observed John Westlock . 
'No ! said Tom Pinch . 
Don't laugh , if you can help it , before the waiters . 
I couldn't when I was ordering it . 
As to THEM , the man who can dream such iced champagne , such claret , port , or sherry , had better go to bed and stop there . 
And then John told his friends , with a broad grin , that he supposed it was all right , but he didn't know and went off into a perfect shout . 
This naturally led him to dwell upon Tom's character , and to hint that Mr Pecksniff understood it pretty well . 
'It's impossible to like Pinch better than I do , or to do greater justice to his good qualities . 
He is the most willing fellow I ever saw . 
'He's rather too willing , observed John , who was quick in observation . 
'It's quite a fault in him . 
'So it is , said Martin . 
There was a fellow only a week or so ago a Mr Tigg who borrowed all the money he had , on a promise to repay it in a few days . 
It was but half a sovereign , to be sure but it's well it was no more , for he'll never see it again . 
'Poor fellow ! said John , who had been very attentive to these few words . 
'Perhaps you have not had an opportunity of observing that , in his own pecuniary transactions , Tom's proud . 
'You don't say so ! No , I haven't . 
What do you mean ? Won't he borrow ? John Westlock shook his head . 
'That's very odd , said Martin , setting down his empty glass . 
'He's a strange compound , to be sure . 
'As to receiving money as a gift , resumed John Westlock 'I think he'd die first . 
'He's made up of simplicity , said Martin . 
'Certainly , said Martin , stretching out his legs , and holding his wine between his eye and the light . 
'Mr Pecksniff knows that too . 
Eh ? John Westlock smiled , but made no answer . 
'By the bye , said Martin , 'that reminds me . 
'He knows what my sentiments used to be upon the subject . 
They are not changed , I assure you . 
'No , no , said Martin , 'I'd rather have them from you . 
'But Pinch says they are unjust , urged John with a smile . 
'Oh ! well ! Then I know what course they take beforehand , said Martin 'and , therefore , you can have no delicacy in speaking plainly . 
Don't mind me , I beg . 
I don't like him I tell you frankly . 
I am with him because it happens from particular circumstances to suit my convenience . 
I have some ability , I believe , in that way and the obligation , if any , will most likely be on his side and not mine . 
At the lowest mark , the balance will be even , and there'll be no obligation at all . 
So you may talk to me , as if I had no connection with him . 
'If you press me to give my opinion returned John Westlock . 
'Yes , I do , said Martin . 
I should say , resumed the other , 'that he is the most consummate scoundrel on the face of the earth . 
'Oh ! said Martin , as coolly as ever . 
Martin drained his glass , and looked at the fire . 
'Why abroad ? asked Martin , turning his eyes upon the speaker . 
'In search , replied John Westlock , shrugging his shoulders , 'of the livelihood I couldn't have earned at home . 
There would have been something spirited in that . 
But , come ! Fill your glass , and let us forget him . 
'As soon as you please , said Martin . 
'In reference to myself and my connection with him , I have only to repeat what I said before . 
I had a notion of that in first going there . 
Your health ! 'Thank you , returned young Westlock . 
What ! Don't you know that he has advertised again ? 'No . 
I read it just before dinner in the old newspaper . 
I know it to be his having some reason to remember the style . 
, the greater reason one has to like HIM ? Not a word more , or we shall spoil his whole enjoyment . 
, sat down in his warm corner again , and was as happy as only Tom Pinch could be . 
There is no other simile that will express his state of mind . 
'And so , he said , when he had gazed at his friend for some time in silent pleasure , 'so you really are a gentleman at last , John . 
Well , to be sure ! 'Trying to be , Tom trying to be , he rejoined good humouredly . 
'There is no saying what I may turn out , in time . 
'I suppose you wouldn't carry your own box to the mail now ? said Tom Pinch , smiling 'although you lost it altogether by not taking it . 
'Wouldn't I ? retorted John . 
'That's all you know about it , Pinch . 
It must be a very heavy box that I wouldn't carry to get away from Pecksniff's , Tom . 
'There ! cried Pinch , turning to Martin , 'I told you so . 
The great fault in his character is his injustice to Pecksniff . 
You mustn't mind a word he says on that subject . 
His prejudice is most extraordinary . 
'The absence of anything like prejudice on Tom's part , you know , said John Westlock , laughing heartily , as he laid his hand on Mr Pinch's shoulder , 'is perfectly wonderful . 
If one man ever had a profound knowledge of another , and saw him in a true light , and in his own proper colours , Tom has that knowledge of Mr Pecksniff . 
'Why , of course I have , cried Tom . 
'That's exactly what I have so often said to you . 
If you knew him as well as I do John , I'd give almost any money to bring that about you'd admire , respect , and reverence him . 
'HIS feelings ! Oh , he's a tender hearted man . 
'I can't bear it , said Tom , shaking his head . 
You must excuse me , John . 
'Why , it's my old way , Tom and you say yourself that you are glad to find me unchanged . 
'Not in this respect , said Tom Pinch . 
'You must excuse me , John . 
I cannot , really I will not . 
It's very wrong you should be more guarded in your expressions . 
It was bad enough when you and I used to be alone together , but under existing circumstances , I can't endure it , really . 
No. I cannot , indeed . 
'You are quite right ! exclaimed the other , exchanging looks with Martin . 
'and I am quite wrong , Tom . 
I don't know how the deuce we fell on this unlucky theme . 
I beg your pardon with all my heart . 
'You have a free and manly temper , I know , said Pinch 'and therefore , your being so ungenerous in this one solitary instance , only grieves me the more . 
It's not my pardon you have to ask , John . 
You have done ME nothing but kindnesses . 
'Well ! Pecksniff's pardon then , said young Westlock . 
'Anything Tom , or anybody . 
Pecksniff's pardon will that do ? Here ! let us drink Pecksniff's health ! 'Thank you , cried Tom , shaking hands with him eagerly , and filling a bumper . 
'Thank you I'll drink it with all my heart , John . 
The general unanimity being then completely restored , they drew their chairs closer round the fire , and conversed in perfect harmony and enjoyment until bed time . 
There was a certain amount of jocularity in the looks of both , no doubt , but there all resemblance ceased . 
The old pupil could not do enough to show Tom how cordially he felt towards him , and his friendly regard seemed of a graver and more thoughtful kind than before . 
'You're not asleep yet , are you , Tom ? 'Bless you , no ! not I. I was thinking of you , replied Tom , opening the door . 
You know a Mr Tigg , Tom , I believe ? 'Tigg ! cried Tom . 
'Tigg ! The gentleman who borrowed some money of me ? 'Exactly , said John Westlock . 
'He begged me to present his compliments , and to return it with many thanks . 
I suppose it's a good one , but he is rather a doubtful kind of customer , Tom . 
Mr Pinch received the little piece of gold with a face whose brightness might have shamed the metal and said he had no fear about that . 
He was glad , he added , to find Mr Tigg so prompt and honourable in his dealings very glad . 
'Why , to tell you the truth , Tom , replied his friend , 'he is not always so . 
If you'll take my advice , you'll avoid him as much as you can , in the event of your encountering him again . 
And by no means , Tom pray bear this in mind , for I am very serious by no means lend him money any more . 
'Aye , aye ! said Tom , with his eyes wide open . 
'He is very far from being a reputable acquaintance , returned young Westlock 'and the more you let him know you think so , the better for you , Tom . 
'I say , John , quoth Mr Pinch , as his countenance fell , and he shook his head in a dejected manner . 
'I hope you are not getting into bad company . 
'No , no , he replied laughing . 
'Don't be uneasy on that score . 
'Oh , but I AM uneasy , said Tom Pinch 'I can't help it , when I hear you talking in that way . 
If Mr Tigg is what you describe him to be , you have no business to know him , John . 
You may laugh , but I don't consider it by any means a laughing matter , I assure you . 
'No , no , returned his friend , composing his features . 
It is not , certainly . 
'You know , John , said Mr Pinch , 'your very good nature and kindness of heart make you thoughtless , and you can't be too careful on such a point as this . 
Upon my word , if I thought you were falling among bad companions , I should be quite wretched , for I know how difficult you would find it to shake them off . 
I would much rather have lost this money , John , than I would have had it back again on such terms . 
'Well ! cried Tom , 'I am glad to hear it I am overjoyed to hear it . 
I am sure there is not , when you say so in that manner . 
You are quite comfortable now ? 'Quite , said Tom . 
'Except Pecksniff , answered Tom , with great gravity 'of course . 
As he had some hours to spare , he bore them company for three or four miles on their walk , and only parted from them at last in sheer necessity . 
Young Westlock stopped upon a rising ground , when he had gone a little distance , and looked back . 
They were walking at a brisk pace , and Tom appeared to be talking earnestly . 
Martin had taken off his greatcoat , the wind being now behind them , and carried it upon his arm . 
As he looked , he saw Tom relieve him of it , after a faint resistance , and , throwing it upon his own , encumber himself with the weight of both . 
And to the end that he might be received with the greater honour , the young men agreed to rise early , and be upon the spot themselves . 
It was the least cheerful day they had yet passed together . 
Martin was out of spirits and out of humour , and took every opportunity of comparing his condition and prospects with those of young Westlock much to his own disadvantage always . 
This mood of his depressed Tom and neither that morning's parting , nor yesterday's dinner , helped to mend the matter . 
So the hours dragged on heavily enough and they were glad to go to bed early . 
getting very wet and that he rejoiced , on his account , that it rained so fast . 
Immediately on its stopping , Mr Pecksniff let down the window glass and hailed Tom Pinch . 
'Oh ! said Mr Pecksniff , looking not so much at Martin as at the spot on which he stood . 
Do me the favour to see to the trunks , if you please , Mr Pinch . 
In the same manner , and in profound silence , Mr Pecksniff handed his daughters into the gig and following himself and taking the reins , drove off home . 
Mr Pecksniff's , I mean . 
You saw it ? 'No . 
Indeed I did not , cried Tom . 
'I was busy with the trunks . 
'It is no matter , said Martin . 
'Come ! Let us make haste back ! And without another word started off at such a pace , that Tom had some difficulty in keeping up with him . 
'Take some tea , Mr Pinch take some tea , said Pecksniff , stirring the fire . 
'You must be very cold and damp . 
Pray take some tea , and come into a warm place , Mr Pinch . 
'Take a chair , Pinch , said Pecksniff . 
'Take a chair , if you please . 
How have things gone on in our absence , Mr Pinch ? 'You you will be very much pleased with the grammar school , sir , said Tom . 
'If you will have the goodness , Mr Pinch , said Pecksniff , waving his hand and smiling , 'we will not discuss anything connected with that question at present . 
poked the fire very much , and when he couldn't do that any more , drank tea assiduously . 
Do me the favour to reply , if you please . 
'You are very obliging , returned Martin 'presently will not do . 
I must trouble you to talk to me at once . 
Mr Pecksniff made a feint of being deeply interested in his pocketbook , but it shook in his hands he trembled so . 
'Now , retorted Martin , rapping the table again . 
Now ! 'Do you threaten me , sir ? cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'I lament to be obliged to say , sir , resumed Mr Pecksniff , 'that it would be quite in keeping with your character if you did threaten me . 
You have imposed upon a nature which you knew to be confiding and unsuspicious . 
You have obtained admission , sir , said Mr Pecksniff , rising , 'to this house , on perverted statements and on false pretences . 
'Go on , said Martin , with a scornful smile . 
What more ? 'Thus much more , sir , cried Mr Pecksniff , trembling from head to foot , and trying to rub his hands , as though he were only cold . 
'Thus much more , if you force me to publish your shame before a third party , which I was unwilling and indisposed to do . 
'Let me go , Pinch ! cried Martin , shaking him away . 
Look at him , Pinch ! Mr Pinch involuntarily did so . 
Still he WAS Pecksniff it was impossible to deprive him of that unique and paramount appeal to Tom . 
He went so rapidly that he was already clear of the village , when he heard Tom Pinch calling breathlessly after him in the distance . 
'Well ! what now ? he said , when Tom came up . 
'Dear , dear ! cried Tom , 'are you going ? 'Going ! he echoed . 
'Going ! 'I didn't so much mean that , as were you going now at once in this bad weather on foot without your clothes with no money ? cried Tom . 
'Yes , he answered sternly , 'I am . 
'And where ? cried Tom . 
'Oh where will you go ? 'I don't know , he said . 
I'll go to America ! 'No , no , cried Tom , in a kind of agony . 
Don't be so dreadfully regardless of yourself . 
Don't go to America ! 'My mind is made up , he said . 
God bless you , Pinch ! 'Take this ! cried Tom , pressing a book upon him in great agitation . 
'I must make haste back , and can't say anything I would . 
Look at the leaf I have turned down . 
Good bye , good bye ! The simple fellow wrung him by the hand , with tears stealing down his cheeks and they parted hurriedly upon their separate ways . 
It must be confessed that , at that moment , he had no very agreeable employment either for his moral or his physical perceptions . 
It fell with an oozy , slushy sound among the grass and made a muddy kennel of every furrow in the ploughed fields . 
No living creature was anywhere to be seen . 
The prospect could hardly have been more desolate if animated nature had been dissolved in water , and poured down upon the earth again in that form . 
The range of view within the solitary traveller was quite as cheerless as the scene without . 
To add to his other miseries , he was by this time sensible of being wet to the skin , and cold at his very heart . 
In this deplorable condition he remembered Mr Pinch's book more because it was rather troublesome to carry , than from any hope of being comforted by that parting gift . 
He had wrapped it hastily in a piece of paper , and pinned it to the leaf . 
These words were scrawled in pencil on the inside 'I don't want it indeed . 
I should not know what to do with it if I had it . 
There are some falsehoods , Tom , on which men mount , as on bright wings , towards Heaven . 
There are some truths , cold bitter taunting truths , wherein your worldly scholars are very apt and punctual , which bind men down to earth with leaden chains . 
He pushed away his empty plate and with a second mug upon the hearth before him , looked thoughtfully at the fire until his eyes ached . 
worshipped in a pink manger and how the Prodigal Son came home in red rags to a purple father , and already feasted his imagination on a sea green calf . 
He was a red faced burly young fellow smart in his way , and with a good humoured countenance . 
that it was an uncommon wet day . 
'Very wet , said Martin . 
'I don't know as ever I see a wetter . 
'I never felt one , said Martin . 
'Out riding , maybe ? said the driver 'I should have been , if I owned a horse but I don't , returned Martin . 
'That's bad , said the driver . 
'And may be worse , said Martin . 
The driver looked at him stealthily for a minute or so and in the pauses of his warming whistled too . 
At length he asked , as he pointed his thumb towards the road . 
'Up or down ? 'Which IS up ? said Martin . 
'London , of course , said the driver . 
'Up then , said Martin . 
He tossed his head in a careless manner afterwards , as if he would have added , 'Now you know all about it . 
put his hands deeper into his pockets changed his tune , and whistled a little louder . 
'I'm going up , observed the driver 'Hounslow , ten miles this side London . 
'Are you ? cried Martin , stopping short and looking at him . 
The driver sprinkled the fire with his wet hat until it hissed again and answered , 'Aye , to be sure he was . 
'Why , then , said Martin , 'I'll be plain with you . 
You may suppose from my dress that I have money to spare . 
All I can afford for coach hire is a crown , for I have but two . 
If you can take me for that , and my waistcoat , or this silk handkerchief , do . 
If you can't , leave it alone . 
'Short and sweet , remarked the driver . 
'You want more ? said Martin . 
'Then I haven't got more , and I can't get it , so there's an end of that . 
Whereupon he began to whistle again . 
'I didn't say I wanted more , did I ? asked the driver , with something like indignation . 
'You didn't say my offer was enough , rejoined Martin . 
'Is it a bargain , then ? said Martin . 
'Yes , it is , returned the other . 
'Then finish this beer , said Martin , handing him the mug , and pulling on his coat with great alacrity 'and let us be off as soon as you like . 
He aspired to the dignity of the regular box , and expected an appointment on the first vacancy . 
What you may call a Guard'an Angel , was Ned . 
'Is he dead ? asked Martin . 
'Dead ! replied the other , with a contemptuous emphasis . 
You won't catch Ned a dying easy . 
He knows better than that . 
'You spoke of him in the past tense , observed Martin , 'so I supposed he was no more . 
'He's no more in England , said Bill , 'if that's what you mean . 
He went to the U nited States . 
'Did he ? asked Martin , with sudden interest . 
'When ? 'Five year ago , or then about , said Bill . 
'Well ! as he landed there without a penny to bless himself with , of course they wos very glad to see him in the U nited States . 
'What do you mean ? asked Martin , with some scorn . 
'What do I mean ? said Bill . 
All men are alike in the U nited States , an't they ? It makes no odds whether a man has a thousand pound , or nothing , there . 
Particular in New York , I'm told , where Ned landed . 
'New York , was it ? asked Martin , thoughtfully . 
I know that , because he sent word home that it brought Old York to his mind , quite vivid , in consequence of being so exactly unlike it in every respect . 
Anyhow , he made his fortune . 
'Yes , he did , said Bill . 
'I know that , because he lost it all the day after , in six and twenty banks as broke . 
He settled a lot of the notes on his father , when it was ascertained that they was really stopped and sent 'em over with a dutiful letter . 
I know that , because they was shown down our yard for the old gentleman's benefit , that he might treat himself with tobacco in the workus . 
'He was a foolish fellow not to take care of his money when he had it , said Martin , indignantly . 
Martin said nothing in reply , but soon afterwards fell asleep , and remained so for an hour or more . 
Under the influence of this fiery dram he started off for London without more ado . 
Arriving there in the middle of the night , and not knowing where to find a tavern open , he was fain to stroll about the streets and market places until morning . 
It happened by good luck that he could . 
Though none of the gaudiest , it was tolerably clean , and Martin felt very glad and grateful when he crept into it , for warmth , rest , and forgetfulness . 
It was quite late in the afternoon when he awoke and by the time he had washed and dressed , and broken his fast , it was growing dusk again . 
This was all the better , for it was now a matter of absolute necessity that he should part with his watch to some obliging pawn broker . 
He would have waited until after dark for this purpose , though it had been the longest day in the year , and he had begun it without a breakfast . 
He bolted himself in pulled out his watch and laid it on the counter . 
Martin drew back involuntarily , for he knew the voice at once . 
quite as a matter of course , and nibbing his pen upon the counter . 
'I shall never be full of my wheat , said Mr Tigg , 'as long as I come here . 
Ha , ha ! Not bad ! Make it two and six , my dear friend , positively for this occasion only . 
Half a crown is a delightful coin . 
Going at two and six ! For the last time at two and six ! 'It'll never be the last time till it's quite worn out , rejoined the shopman . 
'It's grown yellow in the service as it is . 
'Its master has grown yellow in the service , if you mean that , my friend , said Mr Tigg 'in the patriotic service of an ungrateful country . 
You are making it two and six , I think ? 'I'm making it , returned the shopman , 'what it always has been two shillings . 
Same name as usual , I suppose ? 'Still the same name , said Mr Tigg 'my claim to the dormant peerage not being yet established by the House of Lords . 
'The old address ? 'Not at all , said Mr Tigg 'I have removed my town establishment from thirty eight , Mayfair , to number fifteen hundred and forty two , Park Lane . 
'Come , I'm not going to put down that , you know , said the shopman with a grin . 
'You may put down what you please , my friend , quoth Mr Tigg . 
'The fact is still the same . 
'Here ! Please to give me the most you can for this , said Martin , handing the watch to the shopman . 
'He wants money , sorely ! cried Mr Tigg with excessive sympathy . 
'David , will you have the goodness to do your very utmost for my friend , who wants money sorely . 
You will deal with my friend as if he were myself . 
'I can lend you three pounds on this , if you like' said the shopman to Martin , confidentially . 
'It is very old fashioned . 
'And devilish handsome , too , cried Mr Tigg . 
'Two twelve six for the watch , and seven and six for personal regard . 
I am gratified it may be weakness , but I am . 
The name of my friend is Smivey Chicken Smivey , of Holborn , twenty six and a half B lodger . 
Here he winked at Martin again , to apprise him that all the forms and ceremonies prescribed by law were now complied with , and nothing remained but the receipt for the money . 
'As for my part in the same , said Mr Tigg , 'don't mention it . 
Don't compliment me , for I can't bear it ! 'I have no such intention , I assure you , retorted Martin , releasing his arm and stopping . 
'You oblige me very much' said Mr Tigg . 
'Now , sir , observed Martin , biting his lip , 'this is a large town , and we can easily find different ways in it . 
If you will show me which is your way , I will take another . 
And it is quite as unnecessary for me to tell you that I don't desire the honour of your company . 
'Stop' cried Mr Tigg , holding out his hand . 
Be just now , and you can be generous presently . 
Do not confuse me with the man Slyme . 
Do not distinguish the man Slyme as a friend of mine , for he is no such thing . 
I have been compelled , sir , to abandon the party whom you call Slyme . 
I have no knowledge of the party whom you call Slyme . 
I am , sir , said Mr Tigg , striking himself upon the breast , 'a premium tulip , of a very different growth and cultivation from the cabbage Slyme , sir . 
'It matters very little to me , said Martin coolly , 'whether you have set up as a vagabond on your own account , or are still trading on behalf of Mr Slyme . 
I wish to hold no correspondence with you . 
as commission upon the pecuniary advance , in which I have rendered you my humble services . 
After the terms in which you have addressed me , sir , concluded Mr Tigg , 'you will not insult me , if you please , by offering more than half a crown . 
Martin drew that piece of money from his pocket , and tossed it towards him . 
Mr Tigg caught it , looked at it to assure himself of its goodness , spun it in the air after the manner of a pieman , and buttoned it up . 
Martin took the directly opposite course and so , to his great content , they parted company . 
It was with a bitter sense of humiliation that he cursed , again and again , the mischance of having encountered this man in the pawnbroker's shop . 
from being known to any member of his family , the bare possibility of which filled him with shame and wounded pride . 
requesting to have his clothes forwarded to London by coach , with a direction to be left at the office until called for . 
He was years and years too old for a cabin boy , and years upon years too inexperienced to be accepted as a common seaman . 
He often thought of John Westlock , and besides looking out for him on all occasions , actually walked about London for three days together for the express purpose of meeting with him . 
of making him the stepping stone to his fortune , or being anything to him but a patron and his pride so revolted from the idea that it restrained him even now . 
It might have yielded , however and no doubt must have yielded soon , but for a very strange and unlooked for occurrence . 
'A letter ! cried Martin . 
'For Mr Martin Chuzzlewit , said the landlord , reading the superscription of one he held in his hand . 
Martin took it from him , thanked him , and walked upstairs . 
It was not sealed , but pasted close the handwriting was quite unknown to him . 
He opened it and found enclosed , without any name , address , or other inscription or explanation of any kind whatever , a Bank of England note for Twenty Pounds . 
He bought some cold beef , and ham , and French bread , and butter , and came back with his pockets pretty heavily laden . 
The cold meat being wrapped in a playbill , Martin laid the cloth by spreading that document on the little round table with the print downwards , and arranging the collation upon it . 
'More coals , I suppose , said Martin . 
'Come in ! 'It an't a liberty , sir , though it seems so , rejoined a man's voice . 
Hope you're pretty well , sir . 
Martin stared at the face that was bowing in the doorway , perfectly remembering the features and expression , but quite forgetting to whom they belonged . 
'Tapley , sir , said his visitor . 
'Him as formerly lived at the Dragon , sir , and was forced to leave in consequence of a want of jollity , sir . 
'To be sure ! cried Martin . 
'Why , how did you come here ? 'Right through the passage , and up the stairs , sir , said Mark . 
'How did you find me out , I mean ? asked Martin . 
'Are you charged with any message , that you told them you were expected ? inquired Martin . 
'No , sir , I an't , said Mark . 
'That was what you may call a pious fraud , sir , that was . 
He had lived a solitary life too , for many weeks , and the voice was pleasant in his ear . 
'Tapley , he said , 'I'll deal openly with you . 
I'm glad to see you . 
'Thankee , sir , said Mark . 
If you don't sit down , retorted Martin , 'I'll not talk to you . 
'Very good , sir , observed Mark . 
'Your will's a law , sir . 
Down it is and he sat down accordingly upon the bedstead . 
'Help yourself , said Martin , handing him the only knife . 
'Thankee , sir , rejoined Mark . 
'If you don't take it now , you'll not have any , said Martin . 
'Very good , sir , rejoined Mark . 
'That being your desire now it is . 
With which reply he gravely helped himself and went on eating . 
Martin having done the like for a short time in silence , said abruptly 'What are you doing in London ? 'Nothing at all , sir , rejoined Mark . 
'How's that ? asked Martin . 
'I want a place , said Mark . 
'I'm sorry for you , said Martin . 
To attend upon a single gentleman , resumed Mark . 
'If from the country the more desirable . 
He said this so pointedly , that Martin stopped in his eating , and said 'If you mean me 'Yes , I do , sir , interposed Mark . 
'Then you may judge from my style of living here , of my means of keeping a man servant . 
Besides , I am going to America immediately . 
I see well enough there's a screw loose in your affairs . 
I know'd well enough the first time I see you down at the Dragon that it must be so , sooner or later . 
Now that you've said America , I see clear at once , that that's the place for me to be jolly in . 
Therefore , if I don't pay my own passage in the ship you go in , sir , I'll pay my own passage in another . 
'Very good , sir , returned Mark . 
'I'm glad to hear it , because if you don't mean to let me go , you'll be more comfortable , perhaps , on account of thinking so . 
Therefore I contradict no gentleman . 
'Yes I do , cried Mark . 
'I tell you I know better , rejoined Martin . 
'Very good , sir , said Mark , with the same air of perfect satisfaction . 
'Let it stand that way at present , sir , and wait and see how it turns out . 
This was touching Martin on his weak point , and having him at a great advantage . 
He could not help thinking , either , what a brisk fellow this Mark was , and how great a change he had wrought in the atmosphere of the dismal little room already . 
'Why , certainly , Mark , he said , 'I have hopes of doing well there , or I shouldn't go . 
I may have the qualifications for doing well , perhaps . 
'Of course you have , sir , returned Mark Tapley . 
'I should say , sir , observed Mark , 'that that's a state of things as opens one of the jolliest look outs for domestic architecture that ever I heerd tell on . 
Martin glanced at him hastily , not feeling quite free from a suspicion that this remark implied a doubt of the successful issue of his plans . 
But Mr Tapley was eating the boiled beef and bread with such entire good faith and singleness of purpose expressed in his visage that he could not but be satisfied . 
Another doubt arose in his mind however , as this one disappeared . 
He produced the blank cover in which the note had been enclosed , and fixing his eyes on Mark as he put it in his hands , said 'Now tell me the truth . 
How should you ! Though , indeed , your knowing about it would not be more extraordinary than its being here . 
You shall tell me in what disposition you find yourself to morrow . 
'Then , sir , said Mark , rubbing his hands , 'the job's done . 
Go on , sir , if you please . 
Martin ran over the chief points in his history , to the same effect as he had related them , weeks before , to Mr Pinch . 
the young lady at the Blue Dragon . 
'And a young lady as any gentleman ought to feel more proud of being in love with , said Mark , energetically , 'don't draw breath . 
'Aye ! You saw her when she was not happy , said Martin , gazing at the fire again . 
I think she seemed better , sir , after she come to London . 
Martin withdrew his eyes from the fire stared at Mark as if he thought he had suddenly gone mad and asked him what he meant . 
'No offence intended , sir , urged Mark . 
'I don't mean to say she was any the happier without you but I thought she was a looking better , sir . 
'Do you mean to tell me she has been in London ? asked Martin , rising hurriedly , and pushing back his chair . 
'Of course I do , said Mark , rising too , in great amazement from the bedstead . 
'Do you mean to tell me she is in London now ? 'Most likely , sir . 
I mean to say she was a week ago . 
'And you know where ? 'Yes ! cried Mark . 
'What ! Don't you ? 'My good fellow ! exclaimed Martin , clutching him by both arms , 'I have never seen her since I left my grandfather's house . 
At length he asked him whether , if the young lady were still in London , he thought he could contrive to deliver a letter to her secretly . 
'Do I think I can ? cried Mark . 
'THINK I can ? Here , sit down , sir . 
'Cut away , sir ! cried Mark . 
'Make it strong , sir . 
Let it be wery pinted , sir . 
Do I think so ? I should think so . 
'Jolly sort of lodgings , said Mark , rubbing his nose with the knob at the end of the fire shovel , and looking round the poor chamber 'that's a comfort . 
The rain's come through the roof too . 
A lively old bedstead , I'll be bound popilated by lots of wampires , no doubt . 
Come ! my spirits is a getting up again . 
An uncommon ragged nightcap this . 
That's right , sir , to Martin . 
'Go at it as if you meant it , sir . 
Be very tender , sir , if you please . 
Her squire , Mr Tapley , at the same time fell discreetly back , and surveyed the fog above him with an appearance of attentive interest . 
'My dear Martin , said Mary . 
'What change is there in YOU , Martin , she replied 'for that concerns me nearest ? You look more anxious and more thoughtful than you used . 
'I know it must have been , she answered . 
'When have I forgotten to think of it and you ? 'Not often , I hope , said Martin . 
'Not often , I am sure . 
Not often , I have some right to expect , Mary for I have undergone a great deal of vexation and privation , and I naturally look for that return , you know . 
'A very , very poor return , she answered with a fainter smile . 
'But you have it , and will have it always . 
You have paid a dear price for a poor heart , Martin but it is at least your own , and a true one . 
'Of course I feel quite certain of that , said Martin , 'or I shouldn't have put myself in my present position . 
And don't say a poor heart , Mary , for I say a rich one . 
Now , I am about to break a design to you , dearest , which will startle you at first , but which is undertaken for your sake . 
I am going , he added slowly , looking far into the deep wonder of her bright dark eyes , 'abroad . 
'Abroad , Martin ! 'Only to America . 
Have you thought of all this ? 'Thought of it ! cried Martin , abating , in his fondness and he WAS very fond of her hardly an iota of his usual impetuosity . 
Why , that's well ! Now you are brave again . 
'I am endeavouring to be , she answered , smiling through her tears . 
'Endeavouring to be anything that's good , and being it , is , with you , all one . 
Don't I know that of old ? cried Martin , gayly . 
'So ! That's famous ! Now I can tell you all my plans as cheerfully as if you were my little wife already , Mary . 
She hung more closely on his arm , and looking upwards in his face , bade him speak on . 
'You see , said Martin , playing with the little hand upon his wrist , 'that my attempts to advance myself at home have been baffled and rendered abortive . 
I will not say by whom , Mary , for that would give pain to us both . 
Have you heard him speak of late of any relative of mine or his , called Pecksniff ? Only tell me what I ask you , no more . 
'I have heard , to my surprise , that he is a better man than was supposed . 
'I thought so , interrupted Martin . 
'And that it is likely we may come to know him , if not to visit and reside with him and I think his daughters . 
He HAS daughters , has he , love ? 'A pair of them , Martin answered . 
'Indeed ! 'In thought , and in deed , and in everything else . 
A scoundrel from the topmost hair of his head , to the nethermost atom of his heel . 
Of his daughters I will only say that , to the best of my knowledge and belief , they are dutiful young ladies , and take after their father closely . 
This is a digression from the main point , and yet it brings me to what I was going to say . 
, if he can help it , in my own land . 
How long I may be absent is , of course , uncertain but it shall not be very long . 
'In the meantime , dear Martin 'That's the very thing I am coming to . 
In the meantime you shall hear , constantly , of all my goings on . 
, there is a certain person of the name of Pinch . 
Don't forget a poor , strange , simple oddity , Mary but thoroughly honest and sincere full of zeal and with a cordial regard for me . 
Which I mean to return one of these days , by setting him up in life in some way or other . 
'Your old kind nature , Martin ! 'Oh ! said Martin , 'that's not worth speaking of , my love . 
He's very grateful and desirous to serve me and I am more than repaid . 
'I thank him from my heart ! 'Yes , he was , said Martin , 'and is , and gets nothing for it either . 
There never was such a simple fellow ! Quite an infant ! But a very good sort of creature , I assure you . 
'I am sure of that , she said with great earnestness . 
'He must be ! 'Oh , yes , no doubt at all about it , rejoined Martin , in his usual careless way . 
Well ! It has occurred to me but stay . 
If I read you what I have written and intend sending to him by post to night it will explain itself . 
'Very right , and very kind , said Mary . 
'Exactly so ! cried Martin . 
'It's as well to be kind whenever one can and , as I said before , he really is an excellent fellow . 
My reason simply is , that I don't want my letters to be read by other people and particularly by the scoundrel whom he thinks an angel . 
'Mr Pecksniff again ? asked Mary . 
'The same , said Martin will be at once apparent to you . 
She was delighted to hear this , and bestowed a kind glance upon Mark , which he brought his eyes down from the fog to encounter and received with immense satisfaction . 
'I don't think I would say that , Martin . 
'Wouldn't you ? Well ! I'll take that out . 
It's perfectly true , though . 
'But it might seem ungracious , perhaps . 
'Oh , I don't mind Pinch , said Martin . 
'There's no occasion to stand on any ceremony with HIM . 
However , I'll take it out , as you wish it , and make the full stop at secrecy . 
Very well ! I shall not only this is the letter again , you know . 
'However that may be , she returned , smiling , 'he is your friend , and that is enough . 
'Oh , yes , he's my friend , said Martin , 'certainly . 
You'll like him of all things , my love , I know . 
You'll observe very much that's comical and old fashioned about Pinch , but you needn't mind laughing at him for he'll not care about it . 
He'll rather like it indeed ! 'I don't think I shall put that to the test , Martin . 
'You won't if you can help it , of course , he said , 'but I think you'll find him a little too much for your gravity . 
You may rely upon that . 
And always believe me , my dear Tom Pinch , faithfully your friend , Martin Chuzzlewit . 
'Which I shouldn't have said nothing about , sir , added Mark , 'if the young lady hadn't begged me to be particular in mentioning it . 
'I did , said Mary . 
In another minute I shall be ready to return . 
We have time for a very few words more , dear Martin , and although I had much to say , it must remain unsaid until the happy time of our next meeting . 
Heaven send it may come speedily and prosperously ! But I have no fear of that . 
When do you go ? 'To night . 
We leave for Liverpool to night . 
A vessel sails from that port , as I hear , in three days . 
In a month , or less , we shall be there . 
It had been better otherwise , perhaps , but so it was . 
That heart where self has found no place and raised no throne , is slow to recognize its ugly presence when it looks upon it . 
'The quarter's gone ! cried Mr Tapley , in a voice of admonition . 
'I shall be ready to return immediately , she said . 
'One thing , dear Martin , I am bound to tell you . 
'I thank him for that last act , said Martin , 'and for nothing else . 
Though on consideration I may thank him for his other forbearance also , inasmuch as I neither expect nor desire that he will mention my name again . 
He may once , perhaps to couple it with reproach in his will . 
It became between us two a fair exchange a barter and no more and there is no such balance against me that I need throw in a mawkish forgiveness to poise the scale . 
He has forbidden all mention of me to you , I know , he added hastily . 
'Come ! Has he not ? 'That was long ago , she returned 'immediately after your parting before you had left the house . 
He has never done so since . 
'He has never done so since because he has seen no occasion , said Martin 'but that is of little consequence , one way or other . 
Let all allusion to him between you and me be interdicted from this time forth . 
'One other question , Martin , I must ask . 
'Enough ! More than enough . 
Twenty times more than enough . 
Mark and I , for all essential ends , are quite as rich as if we had the purse of Fortunatus in our baggage . 
'The half hour's a going ! cried Mr Tapley . 
'Good bye a hundred times ! cried Mary , in a trembling voice . 
But how cold the comfort in Good bye ! Mark Tapley knew it perfectly . 
Perhaps he knew it from his reading , perhaps from his experience , perhaps from intuition . 
It is impossible to say but however he knew it , his knowledge instinctively suggested to him the wisest course of proceeding that any man could have adopted under the circumstances . 
He was taken with a violent fit of sneezing , and was obliged to turn his head another way . 
In doing which , he , in a manner fenced and screened the lovers into a corner by themselves . 
There was a short pause , but Mark had an undefined sensation that it was a satisfactory one in its way . 
Then Mary , with her veil lowered , passed him with a quick step , and beckoned him to follow . 
She stopped once more before they lost that corner looked back and waved her hand to Martin . 
'Well , Mark ! 'Well , sir , said Mark , taking a long breath , 'I see the young lady safe home , and I feel pretty comfortable after it . 
She sent a lot of kind words , sir , and this , handing him a ring , 'for a parting keepsake . 
'Diamonds ! said Martin , kissing it let us do him justice , it was for her sake not for theirs and putting it on his little finger . 
'Splendid diamonds ! My grandfather is a singular character , Mark . 
He must have given her this now . 
No riches' here he stroked his chin and mused 'could have compensated for the loss of such a nature . 
Not to mention that in gaining her affection I have followed the bent of my own wishes , and baulked the selfish schemes of others who had no right to form them . 
She is quite worthy more than worthy of the sacrifices I have made . 
These ruminations might or might not have reached Mark Tapley for though they were by no means addressed to him , yet they were softly uttered . 
Here , roaring , raging , shrieking , howling , all night long . 
On , on , on , over the countless miles of angry space roll the long heaving billows . 
Mountains and caves are here , and yet are not for what is now the one , is now the other then all is but a boiling heap of rushing water . 
High over her they break and round her surge and roar and giving place to others , moaningly depart , and dash themselves to fragments in their baffled anger . 
Still she comes onward bravely . 
'Well ! said Mark , getting himself into a sitting posture , after various ineffectual struggles with the rolling of the ship . 
'This is the first time as ever I stood on my head all night . 
'You shouldn't go to sleep upon the ground with your head to leeward then , growled a man in one of the berths . 
'With my head to WHERE ? asked Mark . 
The man repeated his previous sentiment . 
'No , I won't another time , said Mark , 'when I know whereabouts on the map that country is . 
In the meanwhile I can give you a better piece of advice . 
Don't you nor any other friend of mine never go to sleep with his head in a ship any more . 
The man gave a grunt of discontented acquiescence , turned over in his berth , and drew his blanket over his head . 
For , said Mr Tapley , pursuing the theme by way of soliloquy in a low tone of voice 'the sea is as nonsensical a thing as any going . 
It never knows what to do with itself . 
It hasn't got no employment for its mind , and is always in a state of vacancy . 
Like them Polar bears in the wild beast shows as is constantly a nodding their heads from side to side , it never CAN be quiet . 
Which is entirely owing to its uncommon stupidity . 
'Is that you , Mark ? asked a faint voice from another berth . 
How do you find yourself this morning , sir ? 'Very miserable , said Martin , with a peevish groan . 
This is wretched , indeed ! 'Creditable , muttered Mark , pressing one hand upon his aching head and looking round him with a rueful grin . 
It IS creditable to keep up one's spirits here . 
Mark felt this , as he sat looking about him and his spirits rose proportionately . 
There were children of all ages from the baby at the breast , to the slattern girl who was as much a grown woman as her mother . 
Mark looked about him wistfully , and his face brightened as he looked . 
'I wish you'd get breakfast , Mark , instead of worrying with people who don't belong to you , observed Martin , petulantly . 
'All right , said Mark . 
It's a fair division of labour , sir . 
I wash her boys , and she makes our tea . 
I never COULD make tea , but any one can wash a boy . 
But Martin , who seldom got up or looked about him , was quite incensed by the folly of this speech , and expressed his dissatisfaction by an impatient groan . 
'So it is , certainly , said Mark , brushing the child's hair as coolly as if he had been born and bred a barber . 
'What are you talking about , now ? asked Martin . 
'What you said , replied Mark 'or what you meant , when you gave that there dismal vent to your feelings . 
I quite go along with it , sir . 
It IS very hard upon her . 
'What is ? 'Making the voyage by herself along with these young impediments here , and going such a way at such a time of the year to join her husband . 
'Where does she join her husband ? asked Martin , yawning . 
'Why , I'm very much afraid , said Mr Tapley , in a low voice , 'that she don't know . 
I hope she mayn't miss him . 
'Why , how , in Folly's name , does the woman come to be on board ship on such a wild goose venture ! cried Martin . 
It's very strange she should be here . 
Quite amazing ! A little mad perhaps ! There can't be no other way of accounting for it . 
Martin was too far gone in the lassitude of sea sickness to make any reply to these words , or even to attend to them as they were spoken . 
'If this was going to last , said Tapley , 'there'd be no great difference as I can perceive , between the Screw and the Dragon . 
I never am to get credit , I think . 
I begin to be afraid that the Fates is determined to make the world easy to me . 
'Well , Mark , said Martin , near whose berth he had ruminated to this effect . 
'When will this be over ? 'Another week , they say , sir , returned Mark , 'will most likely bring us into port . 
The ship's a going along at present , as sensible as a ship can , sir though I don't mean to say as that's any very high praise . 
'I don't think it is , indeed , groaned Martin . 
'You'd feel all the better for it , sir , if you was to turn out , observed Mark . 
I should be greatly the better for that , no doubt . 
I should have thought that , certainly . 
'I tell you , then , rejoined Martin , 'you would have thought wrong , and do think wrong . 
'Very likely , sir , said Mark , with imperturbable good temper . 
'As to lying here , cried Martin , raising himself on his elbow , and looking angrily at his follower . 
I lie here because I wish to conceal my circumstances and myself , and not to arrive in a new world badged and ticketed as an utterly poverty stricken man . 
If I could have afforded a passage in the after cabin I should have held up my head with the rest . 
As I couldn't I hide it . 
Do you understand that ? 'I am very sorry , sir , said Mark . 
'I didn't know you took it so much to heart as this comes to . 
'Of course you didn't know , returned his master . 
'How should you know , unless I told you ? It's no trial to you , Mark , to make yourself comfortable and to bustle about . 
It's as natural for you to do so under the circumstances as it is for me not to do so . 
Those who had been ill all along , got well now , and those who had been well , got better . 
'And this , said Mr Tapley , looking far ahead , 'is the Land of Liberty , is it ? Very well . 
HE MAKES SOME ACQUAINTANCES , AND DINES AT A BOARDING HOUSE . 
'Here's this morning's New York Sewer ! cried one . 
Here they are ! Here they are ! Here's the papers , here's the papers ! 'Here's the Sewer ! cried another . 
Indeed it would have been difficult , on a much closer acquaintance , to describe it in any more satisfactory terms than as a mixed expression of vulgar cunning and conceit . 
This gentleman wore a rather broad brimmed hat for the greater wisdom of his appearance and had his arms folded for the greater impressiveness of his attitude . 
'To the Envy of the world , sir , and the leaders of Human Civilization . 
'Really , said Martin , 'I don't know . 
The gentleman glanced at him with a knowing look , and said he liked his policy . 
It was natural , he said , and it pleased him as a philosopher to observe the prejudices of human nature . 
Well , sir ! let 'em come on in shiploads from the old country . 
When vessels are about to founder , the rats are said to leave 'em . 
There is considerable of truth , I find , in that remark . 
'Hope is said by the poet , sir , observed the gentleman , 'to be the nurse of young Desire . 
Martin signified that he had heard of the cardinal virtue in question serving occasionally in that domestic capacity . 
'She will not rear her infant in the present instance , sir , you'll find , observed the gentleman . 
'Time will show , said Martin . 
The gentleman nodded his head gravely and said , 'What is your name , sir ? Martin told him . 
'How old are you , sir ? Martin told him . 
'What is your profession , sir ? Martin told him that also . 
'What is your destination , sir ? inquired the gentleman . 
'Really , said Martin laughing , 'I can't satisfy you in that particular , for I don't know it myself . 
'Yes ? said the gentleman . 
The gentleman adjusted his cane under his left arm , and took a more deliberate and complete survey of Martin than he had yet had leisure to make . 
When he had completed his inspection , he put out his right hand , shook Martin's hand , and said 'My name is Colonel Diver , sir . 
I am the Editor of the New York Rowdy Journal . 
Martin received the communication with that degree of respect which an announcement so distinguished appeared to demand . 
'The New York Rowdy Journal , sir , resumed the colonel , 'is , as I expect you know , the organ of our aristocracy in this city . 
'Oh ! there IS an aristocracy here , then ? said Martin . 
'Of what is it composed ? 'Of intelligence , sir , replied the colonel 'of intelligence and virtue . 
And of their necessary consequence in this republic dollars , sir . 
, shook hands with him also . 
'Well cap'en ! said the colonel . 
'Well colonel , cried the captain . 
'You're looking most uncommon bright , sir . 
I can hardly realise its being you , and that's a fact . 
'Yes ? said the colonel . 
'Well ! It was , sir , said the captain . 
'I've just now sent a boy up to your office with the passenger list , colonel . 
'You haven't got another boy to spare , p'raps , cap'en ? said the colonel , in a tone almost amounting to severity . 
'I guess there air a dozen if you want 'em , colonel , said the captain . 
'One moderate big 'un could convey a dozen champagne , perhaps , observed the colonel , musing , 'to my office . 
You said a spanking run , I think ? 'Well , so I did , was the reply . 
'It's very nigh , you know , observed the colonel . 
'I'm glad it was a spanking run , cap'en . 
Don't mind about quarts if you're short of 'em . 
The boy can as well bring four and twenty pints , and travel twice as once . 
A first rate spanker , cap'en , was it ? Yes ? 'A most e tarnal spanker , said the skipper . 
'I admire at your good fortun , cap'en . 
You might loan me a corkscrew at the same time , and half a dozen glasses if you liked . 
, he would beseech the honour of his company at the office of the Rowdy Journal , to partake of a bottle of champagne of his own importation . 
All this was so extremely kind and hospitable , that Martin , though it was quite early in the morning , readily acquiesced . 
Presently they turned up a narrow street , and presently into other narrow streets , until at last they stopped before a house whereon was painted in great characters , 'ROWDY JOURNAL . 
He was intent upon his work . 
Every time he snapped the great pair of scissors , he made a corresponding motion with his jaws , which gave him a very terrible appearance . 
Martin was not long in determining within himself that this must be Colonel Diver's son the hope of the family , and future mainspring of the Rowdy Journal . 
'You have heard of Jefferson Brick , I see , sir , quoth the colonel , with a smile . 
'England has heard of Jefferson Brick . 
Europe has heard of Jefferson Brick . 
When did you leave England , sir ? 'Five weeks ago , said Martin . 
'Five weeks ago , repeated the colonel , thoughtfully as he took his seat upon the table , and swung his legs . 
'The libation of freedom , Brick' hinted the colonel . 
Must sometimes be quaffed in blood , colonel , cried Brick . 
And when he said 'blood , he gave the great pair of scissors a sharp snap , as if THEY said blood too , and were quite of his opinion . 
This done , they both looked at Martin , pausing for a reply . 
'That you never heard of Jefferson Brick , sir . 
That you never read Jefferson Brick , sir . 
That you never saw the Rowdy Journal , sir . 
That you never knew , sir , of its mighty influence upon the cabinets of Europe . 
Yes ? 'That's what I was about to observe , certainly , said Martin . 
'Keep cool , Jefferson , said the colonel gravely . 
'Mr Jefferson Brick , sir , said the colonel , filling Martin's glass and his own , and pushing the bottle to that gentleman , 'will give us a sentiment . 
'Well , sir ! cried the war correspondent , 'Since you have concluded to call upon me , I will respond . 
'Hear , hear ! cried the colonel , with great complacency . 
'There are flowery components , sir , in the language of my friend ? 'Very much so , indeed , said Martin . 
'There is to day's Rowdy , sir , observed the colonel , handing him a paper . 
'You'll find Jefferson Brick at his usual post in the van of human civilization and moral purity . 
The colonel was by this time seated on the table again . 
Mr Brick also took up a position on that same piece of furniture and they fell to drinking pretty hard . 
They often looked at Martin as he read the paper , and then at each other . 
When he laid it down , which was not until they had finished a second bottle , the colonel asked him what he thought of it . 
'Why , it's horribly personal , said Martin . 
The colonel seemed much flattered by this remark and said he hoped it was . 
'We are independent here , sir , said Mr Jefferson Brick . 
'We do as we like . 
'If I may judge from this specimen , returned Martin , 'there must be a few thousands here , rather the reverse of independent , who do as they don't like . 
'Well ! They yield to the popular mind of the Popular Instructor , sir , said the colonel . 
'En tirely so , remarked the colonel . 
'It does , now and then . 
'And the popular instructed what do they do ? asked Martin . 
'Buy 'em said the colonel . 
Mr Jefferson Brick expectorated and laughed the former copiously , the latter approvingly . 
'Buy 'em by hundreds of thousands , resumed the colonel . 
'We are a smart people here , and can appreciate smartness . 
'Is smartness American for forgery ? asked Martin . 
'Well ! said the colonel , 'I expect it's American for a good many things that you call by other names . 
But you can't help yourself in Europe . 
'And do , sometimes , thought Martin . 
'Nor any other kind of smartness I reckon ? 'Invented ! No , I presume not . 
'Well ! said the colonel 'then we got it all from the old country , and the old country's to blame for it , and not the new 'un . 
There's an end of THAT . 
Now , if Mr Jefferson Brick and you will be so good as to clear , I'll come out last , and lock the door . 
Rightly interpreting this as the signal for their departure , Martin walked downstairs after the war correspondent , who preceded him with great majesty . 
They walked a mile or more along a handsome street which the colonel said was called Broadway , and which Mr Jefferson Brick said 'whipped the universe . 
Pending her journey downstairs , the pigs were joined by two or three friends from the next street , in company with whom they lay down sociably in the gutter . 
'Is the major indoors ? inquired the colonel , as he entered . 
'Is it the master , sir ? returned the girl , with a hesitation which seemed to imply that they were rather flush of majors in that establishment . 
'The master ! said Colonel Diver , stopping short and looking round at his war correspondent . 
'Oh ! The depressing institutions of that British empire , colonel ! said Jefferson Brick . 
'Master ! 'What's the matter with the word ? asked Martin . 
There are no masters here . 
'All owners , are they ? said Martin . 
Mr Jefferson Brick followed in the Rowdy Journal's footsteps without returning any answer . 
'I am glad to see you , sir , observed the major , shaking hands with Martin , and not moving a muscle of his face . 
'You are pretty bright , I hope ? 'Never better , said Martin . 
'You are never likely to be , returned the major . 
'You will see the sun shine HERE . 
'I think I remember to have seen it shine at home sometimes , said Martin , smiling . 
'I think not , replied the major . 
He said so with a stoical indifference certainly , but still in a tone of firmness which admitted of no further dispute on that point . 
into his window and that went a great way with his constituency of admirers . 
This made him a patriot . 
In commercial affairs he was a bold speculator . 
, with any gifted creature in the Union . 
This made him an admirable man of business . 
This made him an orator and a man of the people . 
Hence , just now Mrs Pawkins kept a boarding house , and Major Pawkins rather 'loafed' his time away than otherwise . 
'You have come to visit our country , sir , at a season of great commercial depression , said the major . 
'At an alarming crisis , said the colonel . 
'At a period of unprecedented stagnation , said Mr Jefferson Brick . 
'I am sorry to hear that , returned Martin . 
'It's not likely to last , I hope ? said Martin . 
'Well ! returned the major , 'I expect we shall get along somehow , and come right in the end . 
'We are an elastic country , said the Rowdy Journal . 
'We are a young lion , said Mr Jefferson Brick . 
'We have revivifying and vigorous principles within ourselves , observed the major . 
were pretty stale in one sense , and pretty fresh in another . 
like lunatics while Mr Jefferson Brick , detaching his arm from Martin's , made a precipitate dive in the same direction , and vanished also . 
'Good Heaven ! thought Martin . 
'The premises are on fire ! It was an alarm bell ! But there was no smoke to be seen , nor any flame , nor was there any smell of fire . 
Unable to bear it any longer , Martin followed . 
Even in his rapid progress he was run down , thrust aside , and passed , by two more gentlemen , stark mad , as it appeared , with fierce excitement . 
'Where is it ? cried Martin , breathlessly , to a negro whom he encountered in the passage . 
'In a eatin room , sa . 
Kernell , sa , him kep a seat 'side himself , sa . 
'A seat ! cried Martin . 
'For a dinnar , sa . 
'You're the pleasantest fellow I have seen yet , said Martin clapping him on the back , 'and give me a better appetite than bitters . 
had turned down in reserve for him , with its back against the table . 
It was a numerous company eighteen or twenty perhaps . 
Of these some five or six were ladies , who sat wedged together in a little phalanx by themselves . 
The oysters , stewed and pickled , leaped from their capacious reservoirs , and slid by scores into the mouths of the assembly . 
The sharpest pickles vanished , whole cucumbers at once , like sugar plums , and no man winked his eye . 
Great heaps of indigestible matter melted away as ice before the sun . 
It was a solemn and an awful thing to see . 
Dyspeptic individuals bolted their food in wedges feeding , not themselves , but broods of nightmares , who were continually standing at livery within them . 
Spare men , with lank and rigid cheeks , came out unsatisfied from the destruction of heavy dishes , and glared with watchful eyes upon the pastry . 
What Mrs Pawkins felt each day at dinner time is hidden from all human knowledge . 
But she had one comfort . 
It was very soon over . 
'Do you mean the matron in blue , sir ? asked the colonel , with emphasis . 
'That is Mrs Jefferson Brick , sir . 
'No , no , said Martin , 'I mean the little girl , like a doll directly opposite . 
'Well , sir ! cried the colonel . 
'THAT is Mrs Jefferson Brick . 
Martin glanced at the colonel's face , but he was quite serious . 
'Bless my soul ! I suppose there will be a young Brick then , one of these days ? said Martin . 
'There are two young Bricks already , sir , returned the colonel . 
The matron looked so uncommonly like a child herself , that Martin could not help saying as much . 
'Yes , sir , returned the colonel , 'but some institutions develop human natur others re tard it . 
'May I ask what he is professor of ? asked Martin . 
'Of education , sir , said Jefferson Brick . 
'A sort of schoolmaster , possibly ? Martin ventured to observe . 
'He is a man of fine moral elements , sir , and not commonly endowed , said the war correspondent . 
'He felt it necessary , at the last election for President , to repudiate and denounce his father , who voted on the wrong interest . 
He has since written some powerful pamphlets , under the signature of Suturb , or Brutus reversed . 
He is one of the most remarkable men in our country , sir . 
'There seem to be plenty of 'em , thought Martin , 'at any rate . 
There seemed to be no man there without a title for those who had not attained to military honours were either doctors , professors , or reverends . 
Three very hard and disagreeable gentlemen were on missions from neighbouring States one on monetary affairs , one on political , one on sectarian . 
These , by the way , were the only members of the party who did not appear to be among the most remarkable people in the country . 
A few sedentary characters , however , remained at table full a quarter of an hour , and did not rise until the ladies rose , when all stood up . 
'Where are they going ? asked Martin , in the ear of Mr Jefferson Brick . 
'To their bedrooms , sir . 
'Is there no dessert , or other interval of conversation ? asked Martin , who was disposed to enjoy himself after his long voyage . 
'We are a busy people here , sir , and have no time for that , was the reply . 
It was rather barren of interest , to say the truth and the greater part of it may be summed up in one word . 
All their cares , hopes , joys , affections , virtues , and associations , seemed to be melted down into dollars . 
Whatever the chance contributions that fell into the slow cauldron of their talk , they made the gruel thick and slab with dollars . 
Men were weighed by their dollars , measures gauged by their dollars life was auctioneered , appraised , put up , and knocked down for its dollars . 
The next respectable thing to dollars was any venture having their attainment for its end . 
Make commerce one huge lie and mighty theft . 
Deface the banner of the nation for an idle rag pollute it star by star and cut out stripe by stripe as from the arm of a degraded soldier . 
So it was with these gentlemen . 
He was the greatest patriot , in their eyes , who brawled the loudest , and who cared the least for decency . 
He was their champion who , in the brutal fury of his own pursuit , could cast no stigma upon them for the hot knavery of theirs . 
'We are a busy people , sir , said one of the captains , who was from the West , 'and have no time for reading mere notions . 
We don't mind 'em if they come to us in newspapers along with almighty strong stuff of another sort , but darn your books . 
'Which would seem , said Martin , pursuing the current of his own thoughts , 'to be the principal recreation they enjoy in common . 
It was a difficult question to solve and the mere fact of its being strongly presented to his mind by all that he had seen and heard , was not encouraging . 
He sat down at the deserted board , and becoming more and more despondent , as he thought of all the uncertainties and difficulties of his precarious situation , sighed heavily . 
His motive was so obvious , and yet so delicately expressed , that Martin felt really grateful to him , and showed him so in the manner of his reply . 
'Not much beholden , said the stranger drily . 
I don't offend you , I hope ? he added , seeing that Martin reddened . 
'I am rather at a loss , since I must speak plainly , said Martin , getting the better of his hesitation , 'to know how this colonel escapes being beaten . 
'Well ! He has been beaten once or twice , remarked the gentleman quietly . 
'Go on , said the other , smiling as if he knew what stuck in Martin's throat . 
'Some courage , no doubt , returned his new friend . 
'Do you think it would require any to do so , now ? 'Indeed I think it would and not a little , said Martin . 
So very right , that I believe no satirist could breathe this air . 
If another Juvenal or Swift could rise up among us to morrow , he would be hunted down . 
'And how has this been brought about ? asked Martin , in dismay . 
'Think of what you have seen and heard to day , beginning with the colonel , said his friend , 'and ask yourself . 
How THEY came about , is another question . 
Heaven forbid that they should be samples of the intelligence and virtue of America , but they come uppermost , and in great numbers , and too often represent it . 
He linked his arm readily in that of the American gentleman , and they walked out together . 
'I was raised in the State of Massachusetts , and reside there still . 
My home is in a quiet country town . 
I am not often in these busy places and my inclination to visit them does not increase with our better acquaintance , I assure you . 
'You have been abroad ? asked Martin , 'Oh yes . 
'And , like most people who travel , have become more than ever attached to your home and native country , said Martin , eyeing him curiously . 
'To my home yes , rejoined his friend . 
'To my native country AS my home yes , also . 
'You imply some reservation , said Martin . 
'What were they ? asked Martin . 
The other , that we have a vast territory , and not as yet too many people on it . 
These facts considered , we have done little enough , I think . 
'Education ? suggested Martin , faintly . 
We shine out brightly in comparison with England , certainly but hers is a very extreme case . 
You complimented me on my frankness , you know , he added , laughing . 
'Oh ! I am not at all astonished at your speaking thus openly when my country is in question , returned Martin . 
'It is your plain speaking in reference to your own that surprises me . 
'Let us talk of something else . 
You have come here on some design of improving your fortune , I dare say and I should grieve to put you out of heart . 
I am some years older than you , besides and may , on a few trivial points , advise you , perhaps . 
There was not the least curiosity or impertinence in the manner of this offer , which was open hearted , unaffected , and good natured . 
, staring intently at Mark , while Mark , with his head reclining on his hand , returned the compliment in a thoughtful manner , and whistled all the time . 
He seemed to have recently dined , for his knife , a casebottle , and certain broken meats in a handkerchief , lay near at hand . 
that they never , never , never 'Nothing gone wrong , I hope , sir ? 'No , Mark . 
Where's your friend ? 'The mad woman , sir ? said Mr Tapley . 
'Oh ! she's all right , sir . 
'Did she find her husband ? 'Yes , sir . 
Leastways she's found his remains , said Mark , correcting himself . 
'The man's not dead , I hope ? 'Not altogether dead , sir , returned Mark 'but he's had more fevers and agues than is quite reconcilable with being alive . 
When she didn't see him a waiting for her , I thought she'd have died herself , I did ! 'Was he not here , then ? 'HE wasn't here . 
But it was his remains , there's no doubt about that . 
She took on with joy , poor thing , as much as if it had been all of him ! 'Had he bought land ? asked Mr Bevan . 
'Ah ! He'd bought land , said Mark , shaking his head , 'and paid for it too . 
Every sort of nateral advantage was connected with it , the agents said and there certainly was ONE , quite unlimited . 
No end to the water ! 'It's a thing he couldn't have done without , I suppose , observed Martin , peevishly . 
There it was , any way always turned on , and no water rate . 
Independent of three or four slimy old rivers close by , it varied on the farm from four to six foot deep in the dry season . 
He couldn't say how deep it was in the rainy time , for he never had anything long enough to sound it with . 
'Is this true ? asked Martin of his companion . 
'Extremely probable , he answered . 
'Some Mississippi or Missouri lot , I dare say . 
I should think they was , pretty straight , if I may judge from the poor man's looks . 
A man and a brother , you know , sir , said Mr Tapley , favouring his master with a significant indication of the figure so often represented in tracts and cheap prints . 
'A slave ! cried Martin , in a whisper . 
'Ah ! said Mark in the same tone . 
The marks are on him to this day . 
When I was having my dinner just now , he stripped off his coat , and took away my appetite . 
'Is THIS true ? asked Martin of his friend , who stood beside them . 
'I have no reason to doubt it , he answered , shaking his head 'It very often is . 
'Bless you , said Mark , 'I know it is , from hearing his whole story . 
And now he's a saving up to treat himself , afore he dies , to one small purchase it's nothing to speak of . 
Only his own daughter that's all ! cried Mr Tapley , becoming excited . 
'Liberty for ever ! Hurrah ! Hail , Columbia ! 'Hush ! cried Martin , clapping his hand upon his mouth 'and don't be an idiot . 
What is he doing here ? 'Waiting to take our luggage off upon a truck , said Mark . 
They've such a passion for Liberty , that they can't help taking liberties with her . 
That's what it's owing to . 
'Very well , said Martin , wishing to change the theme . 
'Having come to that conclusion , Mark , perhaps you'll attend to me . 
The place to which the luggage is to go is printed on this card . 
'Mrs Pawkins's boarding house , repeated Mark . 
'Is that his name ? asked Martin 'That's his name , sir , rejoined Mark . 
'You don't understand me I think he had better go with us . 
He is an honest fellow , and speaks his mind so very plainly . 
'Why , the fact is , said Martin , smiling , 'that being unaccustomed to a free republic , he is used to do so . 
'I think he had better go with us , returned the other . 
'He may get into some trouble otherwise . 
This is not a slave State but I am ashamed to say that a spirit of Tolerance is not so common anywhere in these latitudes as the form . 
We are not remarkable for behaving very temperately to each other when we differ but to strangers ! no , I really think he had better go with us . 
Martin called to him immediately to be of their party so Cicero and the truck went one way , and they three went another . 
So travelling had done him that much good , already . 
Mr Bevan knocked at the door of a very neat house of moderate size , from the parlour windows of which , lights were shining brightly into the now dark street . 
Which was no great wonder , for it soon appeared that he was their near relation . 
And there is no doubt that Martin was monstrous well disposed to regard his position in that light , after his recent experience of the Screw , and of Mrs Pawkins's boarding house . 
, was in a highly genial state , and much esteemed by the whole family . 
Another delightful circumstance turned up before the first cup of tea was drunk . 
The whole family had been in England . 
However , when they asked , after the wearer of this or that coronet , and said , 'Was he quite well ? Martin answered , 'Yes , oh yes . 
Another little trait came out , which impressed itself on Martin forcibly . 
Mr Bevan told them about Mark and the negro , and then it appeared that all the Norrises were abolitionists . 
It was a great relief to hear this , and Martin was so much encouraged on finding himself in such company , that he expressed his sympathy with the oppressed and wretched blacks . 
'Extending , said Martin's friend , in a low voice , 'to the cruellest of tortures , and the bargain and sale of unborn generations . 
Martin felt his reason going and as a means of saving himself , besought the other sister to sing . 
With this request she willingly complied and a bravura concert , solely sustained by the Misses Noriss , presently began . 
They sang in all languages except their own . 
German , French , Italian , Spanish , Portuguese , Swiss but nothing native nothing so low as native . 
For , in this respect , languages are like many other travellers ordinary and commonplace enough at home , but 'specially genteel abroad . 
Of course there was an immediate rush to his assistance and the general was promptly raised . 
'And do I then , cried the general , 'once again behold the choicest spirits of my country ! 'Yes , said Mr Norris the father . 
'Here we are , general . 
'Well , then , don't ask me , said the general , holding up his hand . 
'I was among 'em all the time , and have got public journals in my trunk with my name printed' he lowered his voice and was very impressive here 'among the fashionable news . 
I would if I could . 
'The limited diffusion of a moral sense in that country ! exclaimed the general . 
'The absence of a moral dignity in man ! 'Ah ! sighed all the Norrises , quite overwhelmed with despondency . 
'I couldn't have realised it , pursued the general , 'without being located on the spot . 
Norris , your imagination is the imagination of a strong man , but YOU couldn't have realised it , without being located on the spot ! 'Never , said Mr Norris . 
'The ex clusiveness , the pride , the form , the ceremony , exclaimed the general , emphasizing the article more vigorously at every repetition . 
'Too true , general ! 'But stay ! cried Mr Norris the father , taking him by the arm . 
'Surely you crossed in the Screw , general ? 'Well ! so I did , was the reply . 
'Possible ! cried the young ladies . 
There was no help for it . 
'I came over in the same ship as the general , said Martin , 'but not in the same cabin . 
It being necessary for me to observe strict economy , I took my passage in the steerage . 
A death like stillness fell upon the Norisses . 
If this story should get wind , their country relation had , by his imprudence , for ever disgraced them . 
They were the bright particular stars of an exalted New York sphere . 
O guardian eagle of the pure Republic , had they lived for this ! 'You will allow me , said Martin , after a terrible silence , 'to take my leave . 
I feel that I am the cause of at least as much embarrassment here , as I have brought upon myself . 
But I am bound , before I go , to exonerate this gentleman , who , in introducing me to such society , was quite ignorant of my unworthiness , I assure you . 
With that he made his bow to the Norrises , and walked out like a man of snow very cool externally , but pretty hot within . 
Let us hope it may awake a moral sense within him . 
He drew his arm through Martin's , and entreating him to walk slowly , was silent for some minutes . 
At length he said 'I hope you exonerate me in another sense ? 'How do you mean ? asked Martin . 
'I hope you acquit me of intending or foreseeing the termination of our visit . 
But I scarcely need ask you that . 
'Scarcely indeed , said Martin . 
'I am the more beholden to you for your kindness , when I find what kind of stuff the good citizens here are made of . 
'In good faith , that's true , said Martin . 
'I feel more obliged to you than before , said Martin . 
'Norris is a very good fellow in his way , observed Mr Bevan . 
'Is he ? said Martin drily . 
'Oh yes ! there are a hundred good points about him . 
If you or anybody else addressed him as another order of being , and sued to him IN FORMA PAUPERIS , he would be all kindness and consideration . 
'I needn't have travelled three thousand miles from home to find such a character as THAT , said Martin . 
Neither he nor his friend said anything more on the way back each appearing to find sufficient occupation in his own thoughts . 
By the light of three flaring candles of different lengths , in as many candlesticks of different patterns , the room showed to almost as little advantage as in broad day . 
As they went on to exchange some few remarks in whispers , the very water in the teapot might have fallen twenty degrees in temperature beneath their chilling coldness . 
'Have you been to meeting , Mrs Brick ? asked Martin's friend , with something of a roguish twinkle in his eye . 
'A good discourse , ma'am ? asked Mr Bevan , addressing this lady . 
The lady raised her eyes in a pious manner , and answered 'Yes . 
She had been much comforted by some good , strong , peppery doctrine , which satisfactorily disposed of all her friends and acquaintances , and quite settled their business . 
Her bonnet , too , had far outshone every bonnet in the congregation so she was tranquil on all accounts . 
'What course of lectures are you attending now , ma'am ? said Martin's friend , turning again to Mrs Brick . 
'The Philosophy of the Soul , on Wednesdays . 
'On Mondays ? 'The Philosophy of Crime . 
'On Fridays ? 'The Philosophy of Vegetables . 
'You have forgotten Thursdays the Philosophy of Government , my dear , observed the third lady . 
'No , said Mrs Brick . 
'So it is ! cried the lady . 
'The Philosophy of Matter on Thursdays , of course . 
'You see , Mr Chuzzlewit , our ladies are fully employed , said Bevan . 
'Indeed you have reason to say so , answered Martin . 
'Between these very grave pursuits abroad , and family duties at home , their time must be pretty well engrossed . 
Devotions and lectures are our balls and concerts . 
They go to these places of resort , as an escape from monotony look at each other's clothes and come home again . 
'When you say home , do you mean a house like this ? 'Very often . 
But I see you are tired to death , and will wish you good night . 
We will discuss your projects in the morning . 
You cannot but feel already that it is useless staying here , with any hope of advancing them . 
You will have to go further . 
'And to fare worse ? said Martin , pursuing the old adage . 
'Well , I hope not . 
But sufficient for the day , you know good night' They shook hands heartily and separated . 
Rash and ill considered as it had often looked on shipboard , but had never seemed on shore , it wore a dismal aspect , now , that frightened him . 
Whatever thoughts he called up to his aid , they came upon him in depressing and discouraging shapes , and gave him no relief . 
Even the diamonds on his finger sparkled with the brightness of tears , and had no ray of hope in all their brilliant lustre . 
'Mark ! he cried , starting . 
'All right , sir , said that cheerful follower , snuffing with his fingers the candle he bore . 
But you'll sleep without rocking to night , sir . 
'I feel as if the house were on the sea' said Martin , staggering when he rose 'and am utterly wretched . 
'I'm as jolly as a sandboy , myself , sir , said Mark . 
'But , Lord , I have reason to be ! I ought to have been born here that's my opinion . 
Take care how you go' for they were now ascending the stairs . 
'You recollect the gentleman aboard the Screw as had the very small trunk , sir ? 'The valise ? Yes . 
'Well , sir , there's been a delivery of clean clothes from the wash to night , and they're put outside the bedroom doors here . 
If you take notice as we go up , what a very few shirts there are , and what a many fronts , you'll penetrate the mystery of his packing . 
But Martin was too weary and despondent to take heed of anything , so had no interest in this discovery . 
'I suppose they polish themselves with a dry cloth in this country , said Mark . 
'They've certainly got a touch of the 'phoby , sir . 
'I wish you would pull off my boots for me , said Martin , dropping into one of the chairs 'I am quite knocked up dead beat , Mark . 
'You won't say that to morrow morning , sir , returned Mr Tapley 'nor even to night , sir , when you've made a trial of this . 
'What do you call this ? said Martin . 
Martin took the glass with an astonished look applied his lips to the reed and cast up his eyes once in ecstasy . 
He paused no more until the goblet was drained to the last drop . 
'To go and fetch a cobbler ? repeated Martin . 
'This wonderful invention , sir , said Mark , tenderly patting the empty glass , 'is called a cobbler . 
Sherry cobbler when you name it long cobbler , when you name it short . 
Now you're equal to having your boots took off , and are , in every particular worth mentioning , another man . 
Having delivered himself of this solemn preface , he brought the bootjack . 
I wish you good night , sir , and pleasant dreams ! 'They must be of home , then , said Martin , as he lay down in bed . 
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN DOES BUSINESS WITH THE HOUSE OF ANTHONY CHUZZLEWIT AND SON , FROM WHICH ONE OF THE PARTNERS RETIRES UNEXPECTEDLY Change begets change . 
The mine which Time has slowly dug beneath familiar objects is sprung in an instant and what was rock before , becomes but sand and dust . 
Most men , at one time or other , have proved this in some degree . 
The extent to which the natural laws of change asserted their supremacy in that limited sphere of action which Martin had deserted , shall be faithfully set down in these pages . 
'A good lad ! cried the father , breathing on his cold hands , and feebly chafing them against each other . 
'A prudent lad ! He never delivered himself up to the vanities of dress . 
No , no ! 'I don't know but I would , though , mind you , if I could do it for nothing , said his son , as he resumed the paper . 
'Ah ! chuckled the old man . 
'IF , indeed ! But it's very cold . 
'Let the fire be ! cried Mr Jonas , stopping his honoured parent's hand in the use of the poker . 
'Do you mean to come to want in your old age , that you take to wasting now ? 'There's not time for that , Jonas , said the old man . 
'Not time for what ? bawled his heir . 
'For me to come to want . 
'You act up to your character . 
You wouldn't mind coming to want , wouldn't you ! I dare say you wouldn't . 
Beginning to talk of want , are you ? Well , I declare ! There isn't time ? No , I should hope not . 
But you'd live to be a couple of hundred if you could and after all be discontented . 
I know you ! The old man sighed , and still sat cowering before the fire . 
Mr Jonas shook his Britannia metal teaspoon at him , and taking a loftier position , went on to argue the point on high moral grounds . 
But no , that wouldn't suit YOU . 
That would be natural conduct to your own son , and you like to be unnatural , and to keep him out of his rights . 
Why , I should be ashamed of myself if I was you , and glad to hide my head in the what you may call it . 
But the voice diverted the current of Anthony's reflections , and roused him . 
'Yes , yes , Chuffey , Jonas is a chip of the old block . 
It is a very old block , now , Chuffey , said the old man , with a strange look of discomposure . 
'Precious old , assented Jonas 'No , no , no , said Chuffey . 
Not old at all , sir . 
'Oh ! He's worse than ever , you know ! cried Jonas , quite disgusted . 
'Upon my soul , father , he's getting too bad . 
Hold your tongue , will you ? 'He says you're wrong ! cried Anthony to the old clerk . 
'Tut , tut ! was Chuffey's answer . 
So are you , Mr Chuzzlewit a kind of boy . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! You're quite a boy to many I have known you're a boy to me you're a boy to hundreds of us . 
'No , no , cried Chuffey . 
What if you did ? I've been deaf this twenty year . 
'I grow blinder , too , said the old man , shaking his head . 
'That's a good sign ! cried Chuffey . 
'Ha ! ha ! The best sign in the world ! You saw too well before . 
'They've been carrying on this game , thought Jonas in a brown study , 'for the last two or three weeks . 
I never saw my father take so much notice of him as he has in that time . 
'All as right as ever , said Jonas , propping the lid of the desk open with his forehead , and unfolding a paper . 
'Here's the will , Mister Chuff . 
Thirty pound a year for your maintenance , old boy , and all the rest to his only son , Jonas . 
You needn't trouble yourself to be too affectionate . 
You won't get anything by it . 
What's that ? It WAS startling , certainly . 
A face on the other side of the glass partition looking curiously in and not at him but at the paper in his hand . 
For the eyes were attentively cast down upon the writing , and were swiftly raised when he cried out . 
Then they met his own , and were as the eyes of Mr Pecksniff . 
Suffering the lid of the desk to fall with a loud noise , but not forgetting even then to lock it , Jonas , pale and breathless , gazed upon this phantom . 
It moved , opened the door , and walked in . 
'What's the matter ? cried Jonas , falling back . 
'Who is it ? Where do you come from ? What do you want ? 'Matter ! cried the voice of Mr Pecksniff , as Pecksniff in the flesh smiled amiably upon him . 
'The matter , Mr Jonas ! 'What are you prying and peering about here for ? said Jonas , angrily . 
Why didn't you knock at the door ? 'So I did , Mr Jonas , answered Pecksniff , 'but no one heard me . 
Jonas glanced in haste at the partition . 
So far he spoke the truth . 
'Was it poetry now ? said Mr Pecksniff , shaking the forefinger of his right hand with an air of cheerful banter . 
'Or was it politics ? Or was it the price of stock ? The main chance , Mr Jonas , the main chance , I suspect . 
'So it is , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'No doubt of it , my dear Mr Jonas . 
'Oh ! cried Jonas , 'is that all ? Well . 
Here's father in the next room . 
Hallo father , here's Pecksniff ! He gets more addle pated every day he lives , I do believe , muttered Jonas , shaking his honoured parent roundly . 
'And now , my good sir , said Mr Pecksniff to Anthony 'now that we are alone , pray tell me what I can do for you . 
'He neither hears us , replied Anthony , 'nor sees us . 
You were going to observe , my dear sir ? 'I was not going to make any observation that I know of , replied the old man . 
'I was , said Mr Pecksniff , mildly . 
He was always a glib speaker , but he delivered this short address very glibly having been at some pains to compose it outside the coach . 
Ahem ! Dear me ! 'Jonas is sweet upon your daughter , Pecksniff , said the old man , in his usual tone . 
'We spoke of that , if you remember , sir , at Mrs Todgers's , replied the courteous architect . 
'You needn't speak so loud , retorted Anthony . 
'I'm not so deaf as that . 
'I have said , repeated the old man , 'that Jonas is sweet upon your daughter . 
'A charming girl , sir , murmured Mr Pecksniff , seeing that he waited for an answer . 
'A dear girl , Mr Chuzzlewit , though I say it , who should not . 
'You know better , cried the old man , advancing his weazen face at least a yard , and starting forward in his chair to do it . 
'You lie ! What , you WILL be a hypocrite , will you ? 'My good sir , Mr Pecksniff began . 
'Don't call me a good sir , retorted Anthony , 'and don't claim to be one yourself . 
If your daughter was what you would have me believe , she wouldn't do for Jonas . 
Being what she is , I think she will . 
He might be deceived in a wife . 
She might run riot , contract debts , and waste his substance . 
Now when I am dead His face altered so horribly as he said the word , that Mr Pecksniff really was fain to look another way . 
No , said the old man , hoarsely , 'let that be saved at least let there be something gained , and kept fast hold of , when so much is lost . 
'My dear Mr Chuzzlewit , said Pecksniff , 'these are unwholesome fancies quite unnecessary , sir , quite uncalled for , I am sure . 
The truth is , my dear sir , that you are not well ! 'Not dying though ! cried Anthony , with something like the snarl of a wild animal . 
'Not yet ! There are years of life in me . 
Why , look at him , pointing to his feeble clerk . 
'Come here ! said the old man , beckoning him to draw nearer . 
'Jonas will be my heir , Jonas will be rich , and a great catch for you . 
Jonas is sweet upon your daughter . 
'I know that too , thought Mr Pecksniff , 'for you have said it often enough . 
'He might get more money than with her , said the old man , 'but she will help him to take care of what they have . 
She is not too young or heedless , and comes of a good hard griping stock . 
But don't you play too fine a game . 
She only holds him by a thread and if you draw it too tight it'll snap . 
Bind him when he's in the mood , Pecksniff bind him . 
In your way of leading him on , you'll leave him miles behind . 
But all in vain , for Mr Jonas returned , and Anthony had said no more . 
'What ! My father asleep again ? he cried , as he hung up his hat , and cast a look at him . 
Only hear ! 'He snores very deep , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Snores deep ? repeated Jonas . 
'Yes let him alone for that . 
He'll snore for six , at any time . 
'Ecod , you don't know how tough he is . 
He ain't upon the move yet . 
'It struck me that he was changed , both in his appearance and manner , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'That's all you know about it , returned Jonas , seating himself with a melancholy air . 
'He never was better than he is now . 
How are they all at home ? How's Charity ? 'Blooming , Mr Jonas , blooming . 
'And the other one how's she ? 'Volatile trifler ! said Mr Pecksniff , fondly musing . 
'She is well , she is well . 
'Well , well ! said Mr Pecksniff , with great feeling 'let me not be hard upon my child . 
Beside her sister Cherry she appears so . 
A strange noise that , Mr Jonas ! 'Something wrong in the clock , I suppose , said Jonas , glancing towards it . 
'Upon my word , Mr Jonas , that is a very extraordinary clock , said Pecksniff . 
It would have been , if it had made the noise which startled them but another kind of time piece was fast running down , and from that the sound proceeded . 
'Don't go , said Jonas , putting his ashy lips to Mr Pecksniff's ear and whispered across the bed . 
'It was a mercy you were present when he was taken ill . 
Some one might have said it was my doing . 
'YOUR doing ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'I don't know but they might , he replied , wiping the moisture from his white face . 
How does he look now ? Mr Pecksniff shook his head . 
'I used to joke , you know , said . 
Jonas 'but I I never wished him dead . 
Do you think he's very bad ? 'The doctor said he was . 
You heard , was Mr Pecksniff's answer . 
'Ah ! but he might say that to charge us more , in case of his getting well' said Jonas . 
'You mustn't go away , Pecksniff . 
Now it's come to this , I wouldn't be without a witness for a thousand pound . 
Chuffey said not a word , and heard not a word . 
He had sat himself down in a chair at the bedside , and there he remained , motionless except that he sometimes bent his head over the pillow , and seemed to listen . 
He never changed in this . 
'If anything happens Pecksniff , said Jonas , 'you must promise me to stop here till it's all over . 
You shall see that I do what's right . 
'I know that you will do what's right , Mr Jonas , said Pecksniff . 
'Yes , yes , but I won't be doubted . 
No one shall have it in his power to say a syllable against me , he returned . 
'I know how people will talk . 
Old Anthony , dressed in his usual clothes , was in the room beside the table . 
He spoke to them in something of his own voice too , but sharpened and made hollow , like a dead man's face . 
What he would have said , God knows . 
He seemed to utter words , but they were such as man had never heard . 
And this was the most fearful circumstance of all , to see him standing there , gabbling in an unearthly tongue . 
'He's better now , said Chuffey . 
Let him sit in his old chair , and he'll be well again . 
I told him not to mind . 
I said so , yesterday . 
They put him in his easy chair , and wheeled it near the window then , swinging open the door , exposed him to the free current of morning air . 
But not all the air that is , nor all the winds that ever blew 'twixt Heaven and Earth , could have brought new life to him . 
Mankind is evil in its thoughts and in its base constructions , and Jonas was resolved it should not have an inch to stretch into an ell against him . 
It never should be charged upon his father's son that he had grudged the money for his father's funeral . 
Her name , as Mr Pecksniff gathered from a scrap of writing in his hand , was Gamp her residence in Kingsgate Street , High Holborn . 
So Mr Pecksniff , in a hackney cab , was rattling over Holborn stones , in quest of Mrs Gamp . 
So when Mr Pecksniff drove up in the hackney cab , Mrs Gamp's curtains were drawn close , and Mrs Gamp was fast asleep behind them . 
Still , the door was shut . 
Mr Pecksniff tried the latch , and shook it , causing a cracked bell inside to ring most mournfully but no one came . 
, representing a hair dresser of easy manners curling a lady of distinguished fashion , in the presence of a patent upright grand pianoforte . 
came flocking round the steps , all crying out with one accord , and with uncommon interest , 'Knock at the winder , sir , knock at the winder . 
'He's as pale as a muffin , said one lady , in allusion to Mr Pecksniff . 
'So he ought to be , if he's the feelings of a man , observed another . 
said she wished he had chosen any other time for fetching Mrs Gamp , but it always happened so with HER . 
'What , Mr Whilks ! cried Mrs Gamp . 
'Don't say it's you , Mr Whilks , and that poor creetur Mrs Whilks with not even a pincushion ready . 
Don't say it's you , Mr Whilks ! 'It isn't Mr Whilks , said Pecksniff . 
'I don't know the man . 
A gentleman is dead and some person being wanted in the house , you have been recommended by Mr Mould the undertaker . 
The other ladies were not at all behind hand in expressing similar sentiments and the children , of whom some scores had now collected , hooted and defied Mr Pecksniff quite savagely . 
So when Mrs Gamp appeared , the unoffending gentleman was glad to hustle her with very little ceremony into the cabriolet , and drive off , overwhelmed with popular execration . 
When she was disabused of this idea , her whole being resolved itself into an absorbing anxiety about her pattens , with which she played innumerable games at quoits on Mr Pecksniff's legs . 
It was not until they were close upon the house of mourning that she had enough composure to observe 'And so the gentleman's dead , sir ! Ah ! The more's the pity . 
She didn't even know his name . 
'But it's what we must all come to . 
It's as certain as being born , except that we can't make our calculations as exact . 
Having very little neck , it cost her some trouble to look over herself , if one may say so , at those to whom she talked . 
She wore a very rusty black gown , rather the worse for snuff , and a shawl and bonnet to correspond . 
The face of Mrs Gamp the nose in particular was somewhat red and swollen , and it was difficult to enjoy her society without becoming conscious of a smell of spirits . 
'Ah ! repeated Mrs Gamp for it was always a safe sentiment in cases of mourning . 
'You have become indifferent since then , I suppose ? said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Use is second nature , Mrs Gamp . 
'You may well say second nater , sir , returned that lady . 
'One's first ways is to find sich things a trial to the feelings , and so is one's lasting custom . 
, I never could go through with what I sometimes has to do . 
The conclusion of this affecting narrative brought them to the house . 
'Well , Mrs Gamp , and how are YOU , Mrs Gamp ? said this gentleman , in a voice as soft as his step . 
'Pretty well , I thank you , sir , dropping a curtsey . 
'You'll be very particular here , Mrs Gamp . 
This is not a common case , Mrs Gamp . 
Let everything be very nice and comfortable , Mrs Gamp , if you please , said the undertaker , shaking his head with a solemn air . 
'It shall be , sir , she replied , curtseying again . 
'You knows me of old , sir , I hope . 
'I hope so , too , Mrs Gamp , said the undertaker . 
'and I think so also . 
'This is one of the most impressive cases , sir , he continued , addressing Mr Pecksniff , 'that I have seen in the whole course of my professional experience . 
'Indeed , Mr Mould ! cried that gentleman . 
'Such affectionate regret , sir , I never saw . 
To provide silver plated handles of the very best description , ornamented with angels' heads from the most expensive dies . 
To be perfectly profuse in feathers . 
In short , sir , to turn out something absolutely gorgeous . 
'My friend Mr Jonas is an excellent man , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'I have seen a good deal of what is filial in my time , sir , retorted Mould , 'and what is unfilial too . 
We come into the knowledge of those secrets . 
But anything so filial as this anything so honourable to human nature so calculated to reconcile all of us to the world we live in never yet came under my observation . 
It only proves , sir , what was so forcibly observed by the lamented theatrical poet buried at Stratford that there is good in everything . 
'It is very pleasant to hear you say so , Mr Mould , observed Pecksniff . 
'You are very kind , sir . 
And what a man Mr Chuzzlewit was , sir ! Ah ! what a man he was . 
No , no , cried Mould , with bitter sarcasm . 
We knew him , said Mould , in the same biting vein , as he pocketed his note book 'we knew him , and are not to be caught with chaff . 
Mr Pecksniff , sir , good morning . 
Mr Pecksniff returned the compliment and Mould , sensible of having distinguished himself , was going away with a brisk smile , when he fortunately remembered the occasion . 
Quickly becoming depressed again , he sighed looked into the crown of his hat , as if for comfort put it on without finding any and slowly departed . 
There isn't any one you'd like to ask to the funeral , is there ? 'No , Mr Jonas , I think not . 
'Because if there is , you know , said Jonas , 'ask him . 
We don't want to make a secret of it . 
'No , repeated Mr Pecksniff , after a little reflection . 
'I am not the less obliged to you on that account , Mr Jonas , for your liberal hospitality but there really is no one . 
'Very well , said Jonas 'then you , and I , and Chuffey , and the doctor , will be just a coachful . 
We'll have the doctor , Pecksniff , because he knows what was the matter with him , and that it couldn't be helped . 
'Where is our dear friend , Mr Chuffey ? asked Pecksniff , looking round the chamber , and winking both his eyes at once for he was overcome by his feelings . 
'You may say whatever you wish to say here , Mrs Gamp , said that gentleman , shaking his head with a melancholy expression . 
But in whatever way you earns your bread , you may have rules and regulations of your own which cannot be broke through . 
Them which is of other naturs thinks different . 
'If I understand this good lady , said Mr Pecksniff , turning to Jonas , 'Mr Chuffey is troublesome to her . 
Shall I fetch him down ? 'Do , said Jonas . 
'I was going to tell you he was up there , when she came in . 
I'd go myself and bring him down , only only I'd rather you went , if you don't mind . 
But them as isn't used to these things , thinks so much of 'em afterwards , that it's a kindness to 'em not to let 'em have their wish . 
Whatever epithets she had bestowed on the old clerk , they had not roused HIM . 
'Three score and ten , said Chuffey , 'ought and carry seven . 
Some men are so strong that they live to four score four times ought's an ought , four times two's an eight eighty . 
'Why did he die before his poor old crazy servant ? said Chuffey , clasping his hands and looking up in anguish . 
'Take him from me , and what remains ? 'Mr Jonas , returned Pecksniff , 'Mr Jonas , my good friend . 
'I loved him , cried the old man , weeping . 
'He was good to me . 
We learnt Tare and Tret together at school . 
I took him down once , six boys in the arithmetic class . 
God forgive me ! Had I the heart to take him down ! 'Come , Mr Chuffey , said Pecksniff . 
Summon up your fortitude , Mr Chuffey . 
'Yes , I will , returned the old clerk . 
But she shook her head still . 
For a whole week they all three sat about the hearth and never stirred abroad . 
The weight of that which was stretched out , stiff and stark , in the awful chamber above stairs , so crushed and bore down Jonas , that he bent beneath the load . 
During the whole long seven days and nights , he was always oppressed and haunted by a dreadful sense of its presence in the house . 
Did the door move , he looked towards it with a livid face and starting eye , as if he fully believed that ghostly fingers clutched the handle . 
Did the fire fiicker in a draught of air , he glanced over his shoulder , as almost dreading to behold some shrouded figure fanning and flapping at it with its fearful dress . 
He lay at night upon a mattress on the floor of the sitting room his own chamber having been assigned to Mrs Gamp and Mr Pecksniff was similarly accommodated . 
The howling of a dog before the house , filled him with a terror he could not disguise . 
He avoided the reflection in the opposite windows of the light that burned above , as though it had been an angry eye . 
Nor did Mr Pecksniff alone indulge in the creature comforts during this sad time . 
Mrs Gamp proved to be very choice in her eating , and repudiated hashed mutton with scorn . 
At length the day of the funeral , pious and truthful ceremony that it was , arrived . 
'And what can do more , Mrs Gamp ? exclaimed the undertaker as he emptied his glass and smacked his lips . 
'Nothing in the world , sir . 
'Nothing in the world , repeated Mr Mould . 
'You are right , Mrs. Gamp . 
'Ha , ha ! laughed Mr Mould . 
'You have been breakfasting at somebody's expense this morning , Mrs Gamp . 
But seeing , by the aid of a little shaving glass which hung opposite , that he looked merry , he composed his features and became sorrowful . 
'So be it , replied Mr Mould , 'please Providence . 
No , Mrs Gamp I'll tell you why it is . 
Hearts want binding , and spirits want balming when people die not when people are born . 
Look at this gentleman to day look at him . 
'An open handed gentleman ? cried Mrs Gamp , with enthusiasm . 
'No , no , said the undertaker 'not an open handed gentleman in general , by any means . 
Oh ! do not let us say that gold is dross , when it can buy such things as these , Mrs Gamp . 
'We should be an honoured calling . 
We do good by stealth , and blush to have it mentioned in our little bills . 
He had been a tender plant once upon a time , but from constant blowing in the fat atmosphere of funerals , had run to seed . 
'Well , Tacker , said Mr Mould , 'is all ready below ? 'A beautiful show , sir , rejoined Tacker . 
'The horses are prouder and fresher than ever I see 'em and toss their heads , they do , as if they knowed how much their plumes cost . 
One , two , three , four , said Mr Tacker , heaping that number of black cloaks upon his left arm . 
'Is Tom there , with the cake and wine ? asked Mr Mould . 
'Ready to come in at a moment's notice , sir , said Tacker . 
Give me the paper of gloves , Tacker . 
'Gloves , eh ? said the doctor . 
'I couldn't think of it , returned Mr Pecksniff . 
'You are very good , said the doctor , taking a pair . 
'Well , sir , as I was saying I was called up to attend that case at about half past one o'clock . 
Cake and wine , eh ? Which is port ? Thank you . 
Mr Pecksniff took some also . 
'At about half past one o'clock in the morning , sir , resumed the doctor , 'I was called up to attend that case . 
At the first pull of the night bell I turned out , threw up the window , and put out my head . 
Cloak , eh ? Don't tie it too tight . 
Mr Pecksniff having been likewise inducted into a similar garment , the doctor resumed . 
'And put out my head hat , eh ? My good friend , that is not mine . 
Mr Pecksniff , I beg your pardon , but I think we have unintentionally made an exchange . 
Well , sir , I was going to tell you 'We are quite ready , interrupted Mould in a low voice . 
'Ready , eh ? said the doctor . 
'Very good , Mr Pecksniff , I'll take an opportunity of relating the rest in the coach . 
Ready , eh ? No rain , I hope ? 'Quite fair , sir , returned Mould . 
'I was afraid the ground would have been wet , said the doctor , 'for my glass fell yesterday . 
We may congratulate ourselves upon our good fortune . 
Mr Mould and his men had not exaggerated the grandeur of the arrangements . 
The four hearse horses , especially , reared and pranced , and showed their highest action , as if they knew a man was dead , and triumphed in it . 
And as Mr Mould himself had said already , his behaviour was indecent , and quite unworthy of such an occasion and he never ought to have been there . 
But Chuffey , Heaven help him ! heard no sound but the echoes , lingering in his own heart , of a voice for ever silent . 
'I loved him , cried the old man , sinking down upon the grave when all was done . 
'He was very good to me . 
Oh , my dear old friend and master ! 'Come , come , Mr Chuffey , said the doctor , 'this won't do it's a clayey soil , Mr Chuffey . 
'Be a man , Mr Chuffey , said Pecksniff . 
'Be a gentleman , Mr Chuffey , said Mould . 
This is bad , selfish , very wrong , Mr Chuffey . 
You should take example from others , my good sir . 
You forget that you were not connected by ties of blood with our deceased friend and that he had a very near and very dear relation , Mr Chuffey . 
'Aye , his own son ! cried the old man , clasping his hands with remarkable passion . 
'His own , own , only son ! 'He's not right in his head , you know , said Jonas , turning pale . 
'You're not to mind anything he says . 
I shouldn't wonder if he was to talk some precious nonsense . 
But don't you mind him , any of you . 
My father left him to my charge and whatever he says or does , that's enough . 
I'll take care of him . 
at this new instance of magnanimity and kind feeling on the part of Jonas . 
But Chuffey put it to the test no farther . 
He said not a word more , and being left to himself for a little while , crept back again to the coach . 
It has been said that Mr Jonas turned pale when the behaviour of the old clerk attracted general attention his discomposure , however , was but momentary , and he soon recovered . 
But these were not the only changes he had exhibited that day . 
Not in the churchyard ? Not even there . 
The gates were closed the night was dark and wet the rain fell silently , among the stagnant weeds and nettles . 
One new mound was there which had not been there last night . 
Time , burrowing like a mole below the ground , had marked his track by throwing up another heap of earth . 
'Hum ! The question , my dear friend , said Mr Pecksniff , laying his hand tenderly upon his kinsman's knee , 'is involved with many considerations . 
What would I give them ? Eh ? 'Ah ! what would you give 'em ? repeated Jonas . 
'Why , that , 'said Mr Pecksniff , 'would naturally depend in a great measure upon the kind of husbands they might choose , my dear young friend . 
Mr Jonas was evidently disconcerted , and at a loss how to proceed . 
It was a good answer . 
'What do you mean by that ? growled Jonas , looking at him with increased disfavour . 
'Indeed , my dear friend , said Mr Pecksniff , 'you may well inquire . 
The heart is not always a royal mint , with patent machinery to work its metal into current coin . 
Sometimes it throws it out in strange forms , not easily recognized as coin at all . 
But it is sterling gold . 
It has at least that merit . 
'Is it ? grumbled Jonas , with a doubtful shake of the head . 
'Aye ! said Mr Pecksniff , warming with his subject 'it is . 
This was strong language , and it was earnestly delivered . 
For they were seated on the outside of the coach , at the back , and were travelling down into the country . 
He accompanied Mr Pecksniff home for a few days' change of air and scene after his recent trials . 
'My eldest girl's , Mr Jonas , replied Pecksniff , with moistening eyes . 
'My dear Cherry's my staff , my scrip , my treasure , Mr Jonas . 
A hard struggle , but it is in the nature of things ! I must one day part with her to a husband . 
I know it , my dear friend . 
I am prepared for it . 
'Ecod ! you've been prepared for that a pretty long time , I should think , said Jonas . 
'Many have sought to bear her from me , said Mr Pecksniff . 
I never will give my hand , papa those were her words unless my heart is won . 
She has not been quite so happy as she used to be , of late . 
Again Mr Jonas looked at the landscape then at the coachman then at the luggage on the roof finally at Mr Pecksniff . 
'I suppose you'll have to part with the other one , some of these days ? he observed , as he caught that gentleman's eye . 
'Probably , said the parent . 
'Years will tame down the wildness of my foolish bird , and then it will be caged . 
But Cherry , Mr Jonas , Cherry 'Oh , ah ! interrupted Jonas . 
'Years have made her all right enough . 
But you haven't answered what I asked you . 
Of course , you're not obliged to do it , you know , if you don't like . 
'I should sadly pinch and cramp myself to do so , was his fatherly remark 'but that would be my duty , and my conscience would reward me . 
For myself , my conscience is my bank . 
I have a trifle invested there a mere trifle , Mr Jonas but I prize it as a store of value , I assure you . 
The good man's enemies would have divided upon this question into two parties . 
A question of philosophy arises here , whether Mr Pecksniff had or had not good reason to say that he was specially patronized and encouraged in his undertakings . 
, that there must also be a special Providence in the alighting of the stone or stick , or other substance which is aimed at the sparrow . 
Mr Jonas , not being much accustomed to perplex his mind with theories of this nature , expressed no opinion on the subject . 
Nor did he receive his companion's announcement with one solitary syllable , good , bad , or indifferent . 
'Let's treat the driver , cried Jonas . 
'If you think it won't hurt the man , or render him discontented with his station certainly , faltered Mr Pecksniff . 
Jonas only laughed at this , and getting down from the coach top with great alacrity , cut a cumbersome kind of caper in the road . 
YOU shall pay for this Pecksniff . 
It was not a joke either , as Mr Pecksniff at first supposed for he went off to the coach without further ceremony , and left his respected victim to settle the bill . 
But Mr Pecksniff was a man of meek endurance , and Mr Jonas was his friend . 
Moreover , his regard for that gentleman was founded , as we know , on pure esteem , and a knowledge of the excellence of his character . 
He came out from the tavern with a smiling face , and even went so far as to repeat the performance , on a less expensive scale , at the next ale house . 
It was a lovely evening in the spring time of the year and in the soft stillness of the twilight , all nature was very calm and beautiful . 
The day had been fine and warm but at the coming on of night , the air grew cool , and in the mellowing distance smoke was rising gently from the cottage chimneys . 
'Precious dull , said Mr Jonas , looking about . 
'It's enough to make a man go melancholy mad . 
'We shall have lights and a fire soon , observed Mr Pecksniff . 
'We shall need 'em by the time we get there , said Jonas . 
'Drop it , I say ! cried Jonas , fiercely . 
'Do you hear ? Drop it , now and for ever . 
You had better , I give you notice ! 'It was quite a mistake , urged Mr Pecksniff , very much dismayed 'though I admit it was foolish . 
I might have known it was a tender string . 
'Don't talk to me about tender strings , said Jonas , wiping his forehead with the cuff of his coat . 
'I'm not going to be crowed over by you , because I don't like dead company . 
I advise you not to revive the subject , neither to me nor anybody else . 
You can take a hint , if you choose as well as another man . 
There's enough said about it . 
'Pretty nearly there , ain't we ? said Jonas , when this had lasted some time . 
'Close , my dear friend , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'What'll they be doing , do you suppose ? asked Jonas . 
'Impossible to say , cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'Giddy truants ! They may be away from home , perhaps . 
Truly Mr Pecksniff is blessed in his children in one of them , at any rate . 
The very onions dangling from the beam , mantle and shine like cherubs' cheeks . 
Something of the influence of those vegetables sinks into Mr Pecksniff's nature . 
'That , indeed , is not such hospitality as I would show to YOU , my friend , cried Mr Pecksniff , pressing his hand . 
And then he took a long breath , and tapping at the window , shouted with stentorian blandness 'Boh ! Cherry dropped her pen and screamed . 
But innocence is ever bold , or should be . 
Mr Pecksniff held out his arms . 
She knew him instantly , and rushed into his fond embrace . 
'It was thoughtless of us , Mr Jonas , it was very thoughtless , said Pecksniff , smoothing his daugther's hair . 
'My darling , do you see that I am not alone ! Not she . 
She had seen nothing but her father until now . 
She saw Mr Jonas now , though and blushed , and hung her head down , as she gave him welcome . 
But where was Merry ? Mr Pecksniff didn't ask the question in reproach , but in a vein of mildness touched with a gentle sorrow . 
She was upstairs , reading on the parlour couch . 
Ah ! Domestic details had no charms for HER . 
'But call her down , said Mr Pecksniff , with a placid resignation . 
'Call her down , my love . 
She was called and came , all flushed and tumbled from reposing on the sofa but none the worse for that . 
No , not at all . 
Rather the better , if anything . 
'Oh ! You're a wicked one ! 'There , go along ! retorted Merry , pushing him away . 
'I'm sure I don't know what I shall ever do , if I have to see much of you . 
With this apology he withdrew , singing a careless strain as he went . 
'Oh , I dare say ! rejoined Merry , looking back . 
'You're very anxious I should stay , fright , ain't you ? 'Yes , I am , said Jonas . 
'Upon my word I am . 
I want to speak to you . 
But as she left the room notwithstanding , he ran out after her , and brought her back , after a short struggle in the passage which scandalized Miss Cherry very much . 
'Upon my word , Merry , urged that young lady , 'I wonder at you ! There are bounds even to absurdity , my dear . 
'Thank you , my sweet , said Merry , pursing up her rosy Lips . 
'Much obliged to it for its advice . 
'Ah ! I don't mind YOUR pinching , grinned Jonas , 'a bit . 
'Pinch him for me , Cherry , pray , said Mercy . 
I say Cousin Charity 'Well ! what ? she answered sharply . 
'I want to have some sober talk , said Jonas 'I want to prevent any mistakes , you know , and to put everything upon a pleasant understanding . 
That's desirable and proper , ain't it ? Neither of the sisters spoke a word . 
Mr Jonas paused and cleared his throat , which was very dry . 
'She'll not believe what I am going to say , will she , cousin ? said Jonas , timidly squeezing Miss Charity . 
'Really , Mr Jonas , I don't know , until I hear what it is . 
But you can tell her I'm in earnest , cousin can't you ? You'll confess you know , won't you ? You'll be honourable , I'm sure , he added persuasively . 
His throat seemed to grow hotter and hotter , and to be more and more difficult of control . 
Cousin Mercy , you've heard what I've been saying . 
She'll confirm it , every word she must . 
Let me go after her , said Merry , pushing him off , and giving him to tell the truth more than one sounding slap upon his outstretched face . 
'Not till you say yes . 
Will you have me for your husband ? 'No , I won't . 
I can't bear the sight of you . 
I have told you so a hundred times . 
Besides , I always thought you liked my sister best . 
'But that wasn't my fault , said Jonas . 
'Yes it was you know it was . 
'Any trick is fair in love , said Jonas . 
'She may have thought I liked her best , but you didn't . 
'I did ! 'No , you didn't . 
You never could have thought I liked her best , when you were by . 
'There's no accounting for tastes , said Merry 'at least I didn't mean to say that . 
I don't know what I mean . 
Let me go to her . 
'Say Yes , and then I will . 
'If I ever brought myself to say so , it should only be that I might hate and tease you all my life . 
'That's as good , cried Jonas , 'as saying it right out . 
It's a bargain , cousin . 
We're a pair , if ever there was one . 
This gallant speech was succeeded by a confused noise of kissing and slapping and then the fair but much dishevelled Merry broke away , and followed in the footsteps of her sister . 
'Children ! said Mr Pecksniff , spreading out his hands in wonder , but not before he had shut the door , and set his back against it . 
'Girls ! Daughters ! What is this ? 'The wretch the apostate the false , mean , odious villain has before my very face proposed to Mercy ! was his eldest daughter's answer . 
'Who has proposed to Mercy ! asked Mr Pecksniff . 
That thing , Jonas , downstairs . 
'Jonas proposed to Mercy ? said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Aye , aye ! Indeed ! 'Have you nothing else to say ? cried Charity . 
'Am I to be driven mad , papa ? He has proposed to Mercy , not to me . 
'Oh , fie ! For shame ! said Mr Pecksniff , gravely . 
Mercy , my girl , bless you ! See to her . 
, and walked downstairs into the parlour . 
There he found his intended son in law , whom he seized by both hands . 
'Jonas ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'Jonas ! the dearest wish of my heart is now fulfilled ! 'Very well I'm glad to hear it , said Jonas . 
I say ! As it ain't the one you're so fond of , you must come down with another thousand , Pecksniff . 
You must make it up five . 
It's worth that , to keep your treasure to yourself , you know . 
You get off very cheap that way , and haven't a sacrifice to make . 
'Mr Pinch , said Pecksniff , 'this is hardly decent . 
You will excuse my saying that I think your conduct scarcely decent , Mr Pinch . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , replied Tom , 'for not knocking at the door . 
'Rather beg this gentleman's pardon , Mr Pinch , said Pecksniff . 
'I know you he does not . 
My young man , Mr Jonas . 
The son in law that was to be gave him a slight nod not actively disdainful or contemptuous , only passively for he was in a good humour . 
'Could I speak a word with you , sir , if you please ? said Tom . 
'It should be very pressing to justify this strange behaviour , Mr Pinch , returned his master . 
'Excuse me for one moment , my dear friend . 
'If you will come back to it , Thomas , said Mr Pecksniff , with an icy look , 'I shall feel obliged . 
'Yes , sir , returned Tom , 'certainly . 
They had a posting carriage at the porch , sir , and had stopped to hear the organ , they said . 
'That , said Mr Pecksniff , 'was very , very wrong . 
Take your time , Mr Pinch . 
'Thank you , sir , cried Tom . 
'On that they asked me she asked , I mean Wasn't there a bridle road to Mr Pecksniff's house ? Mr Pecksniff suddenly became full of interest . 
I knew them her , I mean directly . 
The gentleman who was ill at the Dragon , sir , last winter and the young lady who attended him . 
Tom's teeth chattered in his head , and he positively staggered with amazement , at witnessing the extraordinary effect produced on Mr Pecksniff by these simple words . 
'Dear , dear ! cried Tom , 'what have I done ? I hoped it would be a pleasant surprise , sir . 
I thought you would like to know . 
But at that moment a loud knocking was heard at the hall door . 
CHAPTER TWENTY ONE MORE AMERICAN EXPERIENCES , MARTIN TAKES A PARTNER , AND MAKES A PURCHASE . 
SOME ACCOUNT OF EDEN , AS IT APPEARED ON PAPER . 
ALSO OF THE BRITISH LION . 
Mr Pecksniff's house is more than a thousand leagues away and again this happy chronicle has Liberty and Moral Sensibility for its high companions . 
A poor fancy for steel and iron are of infinitely greater account , in this commonwealth , than flesh and blood . 
There were three great caravans or cars attached . 
The ladies' car , the gentlemen's car , and the car for negroes the latter painted black , as an appropriate compliment to its company . 
They were seated side by side , and were engaged in earnest conversation . 
'Were you not jolly there ? asked Martin . 
'On the contrairy , sir , returned Mark . 
'The jolliest week as ever I spent in my life , was that there week at Pawkins's . 
'What do you think of our prospects ? inquired Martin , with an air that plainly said he had avoided the question for some time . 
'Uncommon bright , sir , returned Mark . 
'Impossible for a place to have a better name , sir , than the Walley of Eden . 
No man couldn't think of settling in a better place than the Walley of Eden . 
And I'm told , added Mark , after a pause , 'as there's lots of serpents there , so we shall come out , quite complete and reg'lar . 
'Who told you that ? asked Martin , sternly . 
'A military officer , said Mark . 
'Confound you for a ridiculous fellow ! cried Martin , laughing heartily in spite of himself . 
'What military officer ? You know they spring up in every field . 
'As thick as scarecrows in England , sir , interposed Mark , 'which is a sort of milita themselves , being entirely coat and wescoat , with a stick inside . 
Ha , ha ! Don't mind me , sir it's my way sometimes . 
I can't help being jolly . 
Why it was one of them inwading conquerors at Pawkins's , as told me . 
I looks at him tolerable hard . 
Fleas ? says I. And more , says he . 
Wampires ? says I. And more , says he . 
Musquitoes , perhaps ? says I. And more , says he . 
What more ? says I. Snakes more , says he rattle snakes . 
You're right to a certain extent , stranger . 
There air some catawampous chawers in the small way too , as graze upon a human pretty strong but don't mind THEM they're company . 
'Why didn't you tell me this before ! cried Martin , with an expression of face which set off the cheerfulness of Mark's visage to great advantage . 
'I never thought on it , sir , said Mark . 
'It come in at one ear , and went out at the other . 
'I can honestly say that I hope so , with all my heart . 
'And that's a fact , said a voice so close in his ear that it tickled him . 
'That , he repeated , nodding condescendingly to Martin , as to an outer barbarian and foreigner , 'is dreadful true . 
Darn all manner of vermin . 
Martin could not help frowning for a moment , as if he were disposed to insinuate that the gentleman had unconsciously 'darned' himself . 
But remembering the wisdom of doing at Rome as Romans do , he smiled with the pleasantest expression he could assume upon so short a notice . 
Their new friend said no more just then , being busily employed in cutting a quid or plug from his cake of tobacco , and whistling softly to himself the while . 
'What do you call this now ? he asked . 
'Upon my word' said Martin , 'I don't know what it's called . 
'It'll cost a dollar or more a yard , I reckon ? 'I really don't know . 
'In my country , said the gentleman , 'we know the cost of our own pro duce . 
Martin not discussing the question , there was a pause . 
'You mean the old country ? he said . 
'Ah ! was the reply . 
'How's she ? Progressing back'ards , I expect , as usual ? Well ! How's Queen Victoria ? 'In good health , I believe , said Martin . 
'Queen Victoria won't shake in her royal shoes at all , when she hears to morrow named , observed the stranger , 'No . 
'Not that I am aware of . 
Why should she ? 'She won't be taken with a cold chill , when she realises what is being done in these diggings , said the stranger . 
'I think I could take my oath of that . 
Several other gentlemen had left their seats and gathered round during the foregoing dialogue . 
They were highly delighted with this speech . 
'Hem ! Mr La Fayette Kettle , he said , taking off his hat . 
There was a grave murmur of 'Hush ! 'Mr La Fayette Kettle ! Sir ! Mr Kettle bowed . 
'General Choke , said Mr La Fayette Kettle , 'you warm my heart sir , you warm my heart . 
But the British Lion is not unrepresented here , sir and I should be glad to hear his answer to those remarks . 
General Choke smiled upon the rest , and said , in patient and benignant explanation 'It is sent to her , sir . 
It is sent to her . 
'But if it is addressed to the Tower of London , it would hardly come to hand , I fear , returned Martin 'for she don't live there . 
She HAS lodgings , in virtue of her office , with the Lord Mayor at the Mansion House but don't often occupy them , in consequence of the parlour chimney smoking . 
'Mark , said Martin , 'I shall be very much obliged to you if you'll have the goodness not to interfere with preposterous statements , however jocose they may appear to you . 
I was merely remarking gentlemen though it's a point of very little import that the Queen of England does not happen to live in the Tower of London . 
'General ! cried Mr La Fayette Kettle . 
'You hear ? 'General ! echoed several others . 
'General ! 'Hush ! Pray , silence ! said General Choke , holding up his hand , and speaking with a patient and complacent benevolence that was quite touching . 
This is interesting , and confirms my observation . 
But , sir , you air wrong . 
She DOES live there 'When she is at the Court of Saint James's , interposed Kettle . 
Your Tower of London , sir , pursued the General , smiling with a mild consciousness of his knowledge , 'is nat'rally your royal residence . 
And , consequently , said the General , 'consequently , the court is held there . 
'Have you been in England ? asked Martin . 
'In print I have , sir , said the General , 'not otherwise . 
We air a reading people here , sir . 
You will meet with much information among us that will surprise you , sir . 
'I have not the least doubt of it , returned Martin . 
But here he was interrupted by Mr La Fayette Kettle , who whispered in his ear 'You know General Choke ? 'No , returned Martin , in the same tone . 
'You know what he is considered ? 'One of the most remarkable men in the country ? said Martin , at a venture . 
'That's a fact , rejoined Kettle . 
From Mr Bevan , of Massachusetts , he added , giving it to him . 
The General took it and read it attentively now and then stopping to glance at the two strangers . 
When he had finished the note , he came over to Martin , sat down by him , and shook hands . 
'Well ! he said , 'and you think of settling in Eden ? 'Subject to your opinion , and the agent's advice , replied Martin . 
'I am told there is nothing to be done in the old towns . 
'I can introduce you to the agent , sir , said the General . 
In fact , I am a member of the Eden Land Corporation myself . 
The General explained that he had joined the Corporation only a few weeks ago , and that no communication had passed between himself and Mr Bevan since . 
'We have very little to venture , said Martin anxiously 'only a few pounds but it is our all . 
'I don't mean for the sellers , said Martin . 
'For the buyers for the buyers ! 'For the buyers , sir ? observed the General , in a most impressive manner . 
'Well ! you come from an old country from a country , sir , that has piled up golden calves as high as Babel , and worshipped 'em for ages . 
We fought for that or nothing . 
Eden hadn't need to go a begging yet , sir , remarked the General . 
'It is an awful lovely place , sure ly . 
And frightful wholesome , likewise ! said Mr Kettle , who had made himself a party to this conversation as a matter of course . 
Martin felt that to dispute such testimony , for no better reason than because he had his secret misgivings on the subject , would be ungentlemanly and indecent . 
So he thanked the General for his promise to put him in personal communication with the agent and 'concluded' to see that officer next morning . 
They came to their journey's end late in the evening . 
Close to the railway was an immense white edifice , like an ugly hospital , on which was painted 'NATIONAL HOTEL . 
There was a great bar room in this hotel , and a great public room in which the general table was being set out for supper . 
They did the same things said the same things judged all subjects by , and reduced all subjects to , the same standard . 
The ladies had a smaller ordinary of their own , to which their husbands and brothers were admitted if they chose and in all other respects they enjoyed themselves as at Pawkins's . 
'How much is there here , did you say' asked Martin , holding up a little bag . 
'Thirty seven pound ten and sixpence . 
The Savings' Bank said so at least . 
But THEY know , bless you ! said Mark , with a shake of the head expressive of his unbounded confidence in the wisdom and arithmetic of those Institutions . 
'The money we brought with us , said Martin , 'is reduced to a few shillings less than eight pounds . 
Mr Tapley smiled , and looked all manner of ways , that he might not be supposed to attach any importance to this fact . 
'Upon the ring HER ring , Mark , said Martin , looking ruefully at his empty finger 'Ah ! sighed Mr Tapley . 
'Beg your pardon , sir . 
We raised , in English money , fourteen pounds . 
So , even with that , your share of the stock is still very much the larger of the two you see . 
'Oh ! don't talk of that , you know , sir , returned Mark . 
'I don't want no elevating , sir . 
I'm all right enough , sir , I am . 
'No , but hear me , said Martin , 'because this is very important to you , and a great satisfaction to me . 
Mark , you shall be a partner in the business an equal partner with myself . 
I will put in , as my additional capital , my professional knowledge and ability and half the annual profits , as long as it is carried on , shall be yours . 
Poor Martin ! For ever building castles in the air . 
For ever , in his very selfishness , forgetful of all but his own teeming hopes and sanguine plans . 
I'll stand by you , sir , to the best of my ability , and to the last . 
'We quite understand each other , my good fellow , said Martin rising in self approval and condescension . 
'We are no longer master and servant , but friends and partners and are mutually gratified . 
If we determine on Eden , the business shall be commenced as soon as we get there . 
Under the name , said Martin , who never hammered upon an idea that wasn't red hot , 'under the name of Chuzzlewit and Tapley . 
'Lord love you , sir , cried Mark , 'don't have my name in it . 
I ain't acquainted with the business , sir . 
I've often thought , he added , in a low voice , 'as I should like to know a Co . 
but I little thought as ever I should live to be one . 
'You shall have your own way , Mark . 
'Against any architect in the States , said Martin . 
'Get a couple of sherry cobblers , Mark , and we'll drink success to the firm . 
, that they were no longer master and servant , or considered this kind of duty to be among the legitimate functions of the Co . 
And Mark made no merit , even to himself in his jollity , of this concession perfectly well knowing that the matter would come to that in the end , any way . 
The General was one of the party at the public table next day , and after breakfast suggested that they should wait upon the agent without loss of time . 
They , desiring nothing more , agreed so off they all four started for the office of the Eden Settlement , which was almost within rifle shot of the National Hotel . 
It was a small place something like a turnpike . 
Which is a great way in America . 
He was a gaunt man in a huge straw hat , and a coat of green stuff . 
Perhaps it was the Truth feebly endeavouring to leap to his lips . 
If so , it never reached them . 
Two grey eyes lurked deep within this agent's head , but one of them had no sight in it , and stood stock still . 
With that side of his face he seemed to listen to what the other side was doing . 
Thus each profile had a distinct expression and when the movable side was most in action , the rigid one was in its coldest state of watchfulness . 
It was like turning the man inside out , to pass to that view of his features in his liveliest mood , and see how calculating and intent they were . 
Such was the man whom they now approached , and whom the General saluted by the name of Scadder . 
'Well , Gen'ral , he returned , 'and how are you ? 'Ac tive and spry , sir , in my country's service and the sympathetic cause . 
Two gentlemen on business , Mr Scadder . 
He shook hands with each of them nothing is done in America without shaking hands then went on rocking . 
'I think I know what bis'ness you have brought these strangers here upon , then , Gen'ral ? 'Well , sir . 
'You air a tongue y person , Gen'ral . 
For you talk too much , and that's fact , said Scadder . 
'You speak a larming well in public , but you didn't ought to go ahead so fast in private . 
Now ! 'If I can realise your meaning , ride me on a rail ! returned the General , after pausing for consideration . 
'You know we didn't wish to sell the lots off right away to any loafer as might bid , said Scadder 'but had con cluded to reserve 'em for Aristocrats of Natur' . 
Yes ! 'And they are here , sir ! cried the General with warmth . 
'They are here , sir ! 'If they air here , returned the agent , in reproachful accents , 'that's enough . 
But you didn't ought to have your dander ris with ME , Gen'ral . 
The General whispered Martin that Scadder was the honestest fellow in the world , and that he wouldn't have given him offence designedly , for ten thousand dollars . 
'They rile up rough , along of my objecting to their selling Eden off too cheap . 
That's human natur' ! Well ! 'Mr Scadder , said the General , assuming his oratorical deportment . 
'Sir ! Here is my hand , and here my heart . 
I esteem you , sir , and ask your pardon . 
These gentlemen air friends of mine , or I would not have brought 'em here , sir , being well aware , sir , that the lots at present go entirely too cheap . 
But these air friends , sir these air partick'ler friends . 
Mr Scadder was so satisfied by this explanation , that he shook the General warmly by the hand , and got out of the rocking chair to do it . 
He then invited the General's particular friends to accompany him into the office . 
'Heyday ! cried Martin , as his eye rested on a great plan which occupied one whole side of the office . 
Indeed , the office had little else in it , but some geological and botanical specimens , one or two rusty ledgers , a homely desk , and a stool . 
'Heyday ! what's that ? 'That's Eden , said Scadder , picking his teeth with a sort of young bayonet that flew out of his knife when he touched a spring . 
'Why , I had no idea it was a city . 
'Hadn't you ? Oh , it's a city . 
'Dear me ! It's really a most important place ! cried Martin turning round . 
'Oh ! it's very important , observed the agent . 
'But , I am afraid , said Martin , glancing again at the Public Buildings , 'that there's nothing left for me to do . 
'Well ! it ain't all built , replied the agent . 
This was a great relief . 
'The market place , now , said Martin . 
'Is that built ? 'That ? said the agent , sticking his toothpick into the weathercock on the top . 
'Rather a good job to begin with eh , Mark ? whispered Martin nudging him with his elbow . 
'Mark , whispered Martin , pulling him by the sleeve , 'do you hear that ? But whose work is all this before us , then ? he asked aloud . 
'The soil being very fruitful , public buildings grows spontaneous , perhaps , said Mark . 
He was on the agent's dark side as he said it but Scadder instantly changed his place , and brought his active eye to bear upon him . 
'Feel of my hands , young man , he said . 
'What for ? asked Mark , declining . 
'Air they dirty , or air they clean , sir ? said Scadder , holding them out . 
In a physical point of view they were decidedly dirty . 
But it being obvious that Mr Scadder offered them for examination in a figurative sense , as emblems of his moral character , Martin hastened to pronounce them pure as the driven snow . 
's a putting his foot in it already , thought Mark . 
'He must be a sleeping partner fast asleep and snoring Co . 
'You haven't said whose work it is , Martin ventured to observe at length , in a tone of mild propitiation . 
'Well , never mind whose work it is , or isn't , said the agent sulkily . 
'No matter how it did eventuate . 
P'raps he cleared off , handsome , with a heap of dollars p'raps he wasn't worth a cent . 
P'raps he was a loafin' rowdy p'raps a ring tailed roarer . 
Now ! 'All your doing , Mark ! said Martin . 
'P'raps , pursued the agent , 'them ain't plants of Eden's raising . 
No ! P'raps that desk and stool ain't made from Eden lumber . 
No ! P'raps no end of squatters ain't gone out there . 
No ! P'raps there ain't no such location in the territoary of the Great U nited States . 
Oh , no ! 'I hope you're satisfied with the success of your joke , Mark , said Martin . 
'You air a deal too open handed , Gen'ral , was the answer . 
'It is a lot as should be rose in price . 
He grumblingly opened his books notwithstanding , and always keeping his bright side towards Mark , no matter at what amount of inconvenience to himself , displayed a certain leaf for their perusal . 
Martin read it greedily , and then inquired 'Now where upon the plan may this place be ? 'Upon the plan ? said Scadder . 
'There ! he said , leaving his knife quivering in the wall 'that's where it is ! Martin glanced with sparkling eyes upon his Co . 
saw that the thing was done . 
But the whole of the astoundingly small sum total of purchase money it was only one hundred and fifty dollars , or something more than thirty pounds of the capital brought by Co . 
'If it shouldn't happen to fit , said Scadder , as he gave Martin the necessary credentials on recepit of his money , 'don't blame me . 
'No , no , he replied merrily . 
Oh but it was a clincher for the British Lion , it was ! The indignation of the glowing young Columbian knew no bounds . 
where is he ? Who is he ? What is he ? Show him to me . 
Let me have him here . 
Here ! said the young Columbian , in a wrestling attitude , 'upon this sacred altar . 
'Alone , I dare him ! I taunt that Lion . 
'Who is this ? Martin telegraphed to La Fayette . 
The Secretary wrote something , very gravely , on a piece of paper , twisted it up , and had it passed to him from hand to hand . 
It was an improvement on the old sentiment 'Perhaps as remarkable a man as any in our country . 
This young Columbian was succeeded by another , to the full as eloquent as he , who drew down storms of cheers . 
, forgot to say with whom or what the Watertoasters sympathized , and likewise why or wherefore they were sympathetic . 
'Thus , said the General , 'thus , my friends and fellow citizens , it runs SIR I address you on behalf of the Watertoast Association of United Sympathisers . 
At the name of Freedom , and at every repetition of that name , all the Sympathisers roared aloud cheering with nine times nine , and nine times over . 
In Freedom's name , sir holy Freedom I address you . 
In Freedom's name , I send herewith a contribution to the funds of your society . 
Where , sir , are the Cormorans , the Blunderbores , the Great Feefofums , named in History ? All , all , exterminated by its destroying hand . 
I allude , sir , to the British Lion . 
Oh , sir , in this our cherished and our happy land , her fires burn bright and clear and smokeless once lighted up in yours , the lion shall be roasted whole . 
'My friends ! cried the General , rising 'my friends and fellow citizens , we have been mistaken in this man . 
'In what man ? was the cry . 
'In this , panted the General , holding up the letter he had read aloud a few minutes before . 
The most confiding of their own countrymen would not have wagered then no , nor would they ever peril one dunghill straw , upon the life of any man in such a strait . 
These points adjusted , the meeting broke up in great disorder , and there was an end of the Watertoast Sympathy . 
'You're a gay flag in the distance . 
'NATIONAL HOTEL , 'MONDAY MORNING . 
I could wish to hear repeated to a public audience . 
'Dear Sir , 'Yours truly , 'LA FAYETTE KETTLE . 
S. The Society would not be particular in limiting you to the Tower of London . 
upon the Writings of your talented and witty countryman , the honourable Mr Miller , would be well received . 
Very much aghast at this invitation , Martin wrote back , civilly declining it and had scarcely done so , when he received another letter . 
, Bunker Hill Street , 'Monday Morning . 
'Sir I was raised in those interminable solitudes where our mighty Mississippi rolls his turbid flood . 
'I am young , and ardent . 
For there is a poetry in wildness , and every alligator basking in the slime is in himself an Epic , self contained . 
It is my yearning and my thirst . 
In literature or art the bar , the pulpit , or the stage in one or other , if not all , I feel that I am certain to succeed . 
S. Address your answer to America Junior , Messrs . 
Hancock Floby , Dry Goods Store , as above . 
He had scarcely got through this correspondence when Captain Kedgick , the landlord , kindly came upstairs to see how he was getting on . 
The Captain sat down upon the bed before he spoke and finding it rather hard , moved to the pillow . 
'Well , sir ! said the Captain , putting his hat a little more on one side , for it was rather tight in the crown 'You're quite a public man I calc'late . 
'So it seems , retorted Martin , who was very tired . 
'Our citizens , sir , pursued the Captain , 'intend to pay their respects to you . 
You will have to hold a sort of le vee , sir , while you're here . 
'Powers above ! cried Martin , 'I couldn't do that , my good fellow ! 'I reckon you MUST then , said the Captain . 
'Must is not a pleasant word , Captain , urged Martin . 
'Well ! I didn't fix the mother language , and I can't unfix it , said the Captain coolly 'else I'd make it pleasant . 
'But why should I receive people who care as much for me as I care for them ? asked Martin . 
'Well ! because I have had a muniment put up in the bar , returned the Captain . 
'A what ? cried Martin . 
'A muniment , rejoined the Captain . 
'You wouldn't be unpop'lar , I know , said the Captain , paring his nails . 
'Our citizens an't long of riling up , I tell you and our Gazette could flay you like a wild cat . 
Martin was going to be very wroth , but he thought better of it , and said 'In Heaven's name let them come , then . 
'Oh , THEY'll come , returned the Captain . 
'I have seen the big room fixed a'purpose , with my eyes . 
'Upon my life , now ! said Martin , bringing his hand heavily upon the table 'such a perfectly unaccountable fellow as that , I never saw . 
So I hope there's an end to the breed , sir . 
Although this made Martin laugh , it couldn't keep off two o'clock . 
Up they came with a rush . 
Up they came until the room was full , and , through the open door , a dismal perspective of more to come , was shown upon the stairs . 
One after another , one after another , dozen after dozen , score after score , more , more , more , up they came all shaking hands with Martin . 
Two gentlemen connected with the Watertoast Gazette had come express to get the matter for an article on Martin . 
They had agreed to divide the labour . 
One of them took him below the waistcoat . 
Each stood directly in front of his subject with his head a little on one side , intent on his department . 
If Martin put one boot before the other , the lower gentleman was down upon him he rubbed a pimple on his nose , and the upper gentleman booked it . 
He opened his mouth to speak , and the same gentleman was on one knee before him , looking in at his teeth , with the nice scrutiny of a dentist . 
They had him in all points of view in front , in profile , three quarter face , and behind . 
Those who were not professional or scientific , audibly exchanged opinions on his looks . 
New lights shone in upon him , in respect of his nose . 
Contradictory rumours were abroad on the subject of his hair . 
, came gliding in every new group fresher than the last , and bent on staying to the latest moment . 
, got behind the door , and stood there , like a clock , long after everybody else was gone . 
She was very straight , very tall , and not at all flexible in face or figure . 
'Mr Chuzzlewit , I believe ? said the gentleman . 
'Sir , said the gentleman , 'I am pressed for time . 
'Thank God ! thought Martin . 
'I go back Toe my home , sir , pursued the gentleman , 'by the return train , which starts immediate . 
Start is not a word you use in your country , sir . 
'Oh yes , it is , said Martin . 
'You air mistaken , sir , returned the gentleman , with great decision 'but we will not pursue the subject , lest it should awake your preju dice . 
'Mrs Hominy , sir , is the lady of Major Hominy , one of our chicest spirits and belongs Toe one of our most aristocratic families . 
You air , p'raps , acquainted , sir , with Mrs Hominy's writings . 
Martin couldn't say he was . 
'You have much Toe learn , and Toe enjoy , sir , said the gentleman . 
'Mrs Hominy is going Toe stay until the end of the Fall , sir , with her married daughter at the settlement of New Thermopylae , three days this side of Eden . 
Any attention , sir , that you can show Toe Mrs Hominy upon the journey , will be very grateful Toe the Major and our fellow citizens . 
'A'most used up I am , I do declare ! she observed . 
'The jolting in the cars is pretty nigh as bad as if the rail was full of snags and sawyers . 
'Snags and sawyers , ma'am ? said Martin . 
'Well , then , I do suppose you'll hardly realise my meaning , sir , said Mrs Hominy . 
'Touch me , will you . 
Martin handed her to a chair . 
Her first words arrested him before he could get back to his own seat . 
'And how do you like our country , sir ? asked Mrs Hominy . 
'Very much indeed , said Martin , half asleep . 
'At least that is pretty well , ma'am . 
'Most strangers and partick'larly Britishers are much surprised by what they see in the U nited States , remarked Mrs Hominy . 
'They have excellent reason to be so , ma'am , said Martin . 
'I never was so much surprised in all my life . 
'Our institutions make our people smart much , sir , Mrs Hominy remarked . 
'The most short sighted man could see that at a glance , with his naked eye , said Martin . 
Mrs Hominy was a philosopher and an authoress , and consequently had a pretty strong digestion but this coarse , this indecorous phrase , was almost too much for her . 
But Mrs Hominy was a traveller . 
Mrs Hominy was a writer of reviews and analytical disquisitions . 
, regularly printed in a public journal , with all the indignation in capitals , and all the sarcasm in italics . 
about them by the hour together . 
So Mrs Hominy at last came down on Martin heavily , and as he was fast asleep , she had it all her own way , and bruised him to her heart's content . 
When his eyes opened it was staring him full in the face . 
It would be difficult to give an adequate idea of Mrs Hominy's freshness next day , or of the avidity with which she went headlong into moral philosophy at breakfast . 
Some little additional degree of asperity , perhaps , was visible in her features , but not more than the pickles would have naturally produced . 
All that day she clung to Martin . 
had been living on the lower deck a whole week , and exhausting their miserable stock of provisions before the voyage commenced . 
There they were , all huddled together with the engine and the fires . 
Noon came , and they would start at night . 
But nothing is eternal in this world not even the procrastination of an American skipper and at night all was ready . 
, Martin walked down to the wharf , through a concourse of people , with Mrs Hominy upon his arm and went on board . 
But Mark was bent on solving the riddle of this lionship , if he could and so , not without the risk of being left behind , ran back to the hotel . 
Captain Kedgick was sitting in the colonnade , with a julep on his knee , and a cigar in his mouth . 
He caught Mark's eye , and said 'Why , what the 'Tarnal brings you here ? 'I'll tell you plainly what it is , Captain , said Mark . 
'I want to ask you a question . 
'A man may ASK a question , so he may , returned Kedgick strongly implying that another man might not answer a question , so he mightn't . 
'What have they been making so much of him for , now ? said Mark , slyly . 
'Come ! 'Our people like ex citement , answered Kedgick , sucking his cigar . 
'But how has he excited 'em ? asked Mark . 
The Captain looked at him as if he were half inclined to unburden his mind of a capital joke . 
'You air a going ? he said . 
'Ain't every moment precious ? 'Our people like ex citement , said the Captain , whispering . 
'He ain't like emigrants in gin'ral and he excited 'em along of this he winked and burst into a smothered laugh 'along of this . 
It was too late to mend the matter , or put any face upon it but the best . 
He gave the Captain a parting benediction , and ran off like a race horse . 
'Mark ! Mark ! cried Martin . 
'Here am I , sir ! shouted Mark , suddenly replying from the edge of the quay , and leaping at a bound on board . 
'Never was half so jolly , sir . 
CHAPTER TWENTY THREE MARTIN AND HIS PARTNER TAKE POSSESSION OF THEIR ESTATE . 
'If this were a republic of Intellect and Worth , he said , 'instead of vapouring and jobbing , they would not want the levers to keep it in motion . 
'Having good tools , and using bad ones , returned Mr Tapley , 'would look as if they was rather a poor sort of carpenters , sir , wouldn't it ? Martin nodded . 
'As if their work were infinitely above their powers and purpose , Mark and they botched it in consequence . 
Take notice of my words , sir . 
That's the way they gammon each other , sir . 
Bless you , I know 'em . 
Take notice of my words , now ! 'You seem to be growing profoundly sagacious ! cried Martin , laughing . 
'Whether that is , thought Mark , 'because I'm a day's journey nearer Eden , and am brightening up afore I die , I can't say . 
P'rhaps by the time I get there I shall have growed into a prophet . 
He gave no utterance to these sentiments but the excessive joviality they inspired within him , and the merriment they brought upon his shining face , were quite enough for Martin . 
Whether he were in the humour to profit by it , mattered not a jot . 
It was contagious , and he could not choose but be affected . 
At first they parted with some of their passengers once or twice a day , and took in others to replace them . 
Sky , wood , and water all the livelong day and heat that blistered everything it touched . 
They had now but few people on board , and these few were as flat , as dull , and stagnant , as the vegetation that oppressed their eyes . 
No sound of cheerfulness or hope was heard no pleasant talk beguiled the tardy time no little group made common cause against the full depression of the scene . 
But that , at certain periods , they swallowed food together from a common trough , it might have been old Charon's boat , conveying melancholy shades to judgment . 
At length they drew near New Thermopylae where , that same evening , Mrs Hominy would disembark . 
A gleam of comfort sunk into Martin's bosom when she told him this . 
Mark needed none but he was not displeased . 
It was almost night when they came alongside the landing place . 
A steep bank with an hotel like a barn on the top of it a wooden store or two and a few scattered sheds . 
'You sleep here to night , and go on in the morning , I suppose , ma'am ? said Martin . 
'Where should I go on to ? cried the mother of the modern Gracchi . 
'My ! ain't I there ? said Mrs Hominy . 
Martin looked for it all round the darkening panorama but he couldn't see it , and was obliged to say so . 
'Why that's it ! cried Mrs Hominy , pointing to the sheds just mentioned . 
'Ah ! that and work it which way you will , it whips Eden , said Mrs Hominy , nodding her head with great expression . 
The married Miss Hominy , who had come on board with her husband , gave to this statement her most unqualified support , as did that gentleman also . 
safely across the gangway , returned in a thoughtful mood to watch the emigrants as they removed their goods ashore . 
'Mark , he said then , 'are there really none but ourselves on board this boat who are bound for Eden ? 'None at all , sir . 
Most of 'em , as you know , have stopped short and the few that are left are going further on . 
What matters that ! More room there for us , sir . 
'Oh , to be sure ! said Martin . 
'But I was thinking and there he paused . 
'Yes , sir ? observed Mark . 
He spoke in a tone so very different from his usual confidence , and with such an obvious dread of Mark's reply , that the good natured fellow was full of pity . 
'Why , you know , sir , said Mark , as gently as he could by any means insinuate the observation , 'we must guard against being too sanguine . 
There's no occasion for it , either , because we're determined to make the best of everything , after we know the worst of it . 
Ain't we , sir ? Martin looked at him , but answered not a word . 
'Even Eden , you know , ain't all built , said Mark . 
'In the name of Heaven , man , cried Martin angrily , 'don't talk of Eden in the same breath with that place . 
Nor did he speak again , except to say 'Good night , until next day nor even then upon this subject , but on other topics quite foreign to the purpose . 
The waters of the Deluge might have left it but a week before so choked with slime and matted growth was the hideous swamp which bore that name . 
There being no depth of water close in shore , they landed from the vessel's boat , with all their goods beside them . 
'He'll get us help to carry these things up . 
Keep a good heart , sir . 
Hallo there ! The man advanced toward them through the thickening gloom , very slowly leaning on a stick . 
As he drew nearer , they observed that he was pale and worn , and that his anxious eyes were deeply sunken in his head . 
His dress of homespun blue hung about him in rags his feet and head were bare . 
He sat down on a stump half way , and beckoned them to come to him . 
When they complied , he put his hand upon his side as if in pain , and while he fetched his breath stared at them , wondering . 
'Strangers ! he exclaimed , as soon as he could speak . 
'The very same , said Mark . 
'How are you , sir ? 'I've had the fever very bad , he answered faintly . 
'I haven't stood upright these many weeks . 
Those are your notions I see , pointing to their property . 
'Yes , sir , said Mark , 'they are . 
My youngest died last week . 
'I'm sorry for it , governor , with all my heart , said Mark , shaking him by the hand . 
Come along with me , and I'll give you an arm back . 
The goods is safe enough , sir' to Martin 'there ain't many people about , to make away with 'em . 
What a comfort that is ! 'No , cried the man . 
'You must look for such folk here , knocking his stick upon the ground , 'or yonder in the bush , towards the north . 
We've buried most of 'em . 
The rest have gone away . 
Them that we have here , don't come out at night . 
'The night air ain't quite wholesome , I suppose ? said Mark . 
'It's deadly poison , was the settler's answer . 
This latter acquisition Mark planted in the earth , and then declaring that the mansion 'looked quite comfortable , hurried Martin off again to help bring up the chest . 
When the log hut received them for the second time , Martin laid down upon the ground , and wept aloud . 
Besides its being of no use to you , it's worse than of no use to me , for the least sound of it will knock me flat down . 
I can't stand up agin it , sir . 
'I ask your forgiveness a thousand times , my dear fellow , said Martin . 
'I couldn't have helped it , if death had been the penalty . 
'Ask my forgiveness ! said Mark , with his accustomed cheerfulness , as he proceeded to unpack the chest . 
'The head partner a asking forgiveness of Co . 
, eh ? There must be something wrong in the firm when that happens . 
I must have the books inspected and the accounts gone over immediate . 
Everything in its proper place . 
Uncommon good it smells too . 
This tin pot's a small fortun' in itself ! Here's the blankets . 
Here we are , sir , all complete . 
For what we are going to receive , et cetrer . 
Lord bless you , sir , it's very like a gipsy party ! It was impossible not to take heart , in the company of such a man as this . 
Martin sat upon the ground beside the box took out his knife and ate and drank sturdily . 
'Now you see , said Mark , when they had made a hearty meal 'with your knife and mine , I sticks this blanket right afore the door . 
Or where , in a state of high civilization , the door would be . 
And very neat it looks . 
Then I stops the aperture below , by putting the chest agin it . 
And very neat THAT looks . 
Then there's your blanket , sir . 
And what's to hinder our passing a good night ? For all his light hearted speaking , it was long before he slept himself . 
He wrapped his blanket round him , put the axe ready to his hand , and lay across the threshold of the door too anxious and too watchful to close his eyes . 
Though Martin would have had him think otherwise , Mark felt that he was waking also , and a prey to the same reflections . 
Never had the light of day been half so welcome to his eyes , as when awaking from a fitful doze , Mark saw it shining through the blanket in the doorway . 
There were not above a score of cabins in the whole half of these appeared untenanted all were rotten and decayed . 
The most tottering , abject , and forlorn among them was called , with great propriety , the Bank , and National Credit Office . 
It had some feeble props about it , but was settling deep down in the mud , past all recovery . 
Their own land was mere forest . 
The trees had grown so think and close that they shouldered one another out of their places , and the weakest , forced into shapes of strange distortion , languished like cripples . 
They shook their heads in speaking of the settlement , and had no comfort to give him . 
Those who had the means of going away had all deserted it . 
They who were left had lost their wives , their children , friends , or brothers there , and suffered much themselves . 
Most of them were ill then none were the men they had been once . 
They frankly offered their assistance and advice , and , leaving him for that time , went sadly off upon their several tasks . 
Martin was by this time stirring but he had greatly changed , even in one night . 
He was very pale and languid he spoke of pains and weakness in his limbs , and complained that his sight was dim , and his voice feeble . 
Greatly satisfied with this arrangement , he next rolled their cask of flour into the house and set it up on end in one corner , where it served for a side table . 
No better dining table could be required than the chest , which he solemnly devoted to that useful service thenceforth . 
Their blankets , clothes , and the like , he hung on pegs and nails . 
bearing the inscription , CHUZZLEWIT CO . 
And now , if any gentleman wants a house built , he'd better give his orders , afore we're other ways bespoke . 
'Here's ugly old tree in the way , sir , he observed , 'which'll be all the better down . 
We can build the oven in the afternoon . 
There never was such a handy spot for clay as Eden is . 
But Martin gave him no answer . 
Not even the vigorous strokes which Mark dealt at the tree awoke him from his mournful meditation . 
Finding all his endeavours to rouse him of no use , Mark stopped in his work and came towards him . 
'Don't give in , sir , said Mr Tapley . 
'But if you're past that already , returned Mark , 'you must be ill , and ought to be attended to . 
'Don't mind me , said Martin . 
'Do the best you can for yourself . 
You'll soon have only yourself to consider . 
And then God speed you home , and forgive me for bringing you here ! I am destined to die in this place . 
I felt it the instant I set foot upon the shore . 
Sleeping or waking , Mark , I dreamed it all last night . 
'I said you must be ill , returned Mark , tenderly , 'and now I'm sure of it . 
A touch of fever and ague caught on these rivers , I dare say but bless you , THAT'S nothing . 
It's only a seasoning , and we must all be seasoned , one way or another . 
That's religion that is , you know , said Mark . 
He only sighed and shook his head . 
I won't be gone a minute . 
'Now , Mr Tapley , said Mark , giving himself a tremendous blow in the chest by way of reviver , 'just you attend to what I've got to say . 
Things is looking about as bad as they CAN look , young man . 
You'll not have such another opportunity for showing your jolly disposition , my fine fellow , as long as you live . 
'Isn't somebody a going to open that precious old door of yours ? 'Immediately , Mr Jonas . 
'Ecod , muttered the orphan , 'not before it's time neither . 
'Immediately , Mr Jonas immediately , repeated Pecksniff . 
Silence ! Do you hear me , sir ? 'Directly , sir ! cried Tom , departing , in a state of much amazement , on his errand . 
'You'll ha , ha , ha ! you'll excuse me , Mr Jonas , if I close this door a moment , will you ? said Pecksniff . 
'This may be a professional call . 
Indeed I am pretty sure it is . 
Seeing a gentleman and lady before him , he started back in as much confusion as a good man with a crystal conscience might betray in mere surprise . 
Pray , my dear sir , walk in . 
You find me in my garden dress . 
You will excuse it , I know . 
It is an ancient pursuit , gardening . 
Primitive , my dear sir . 
Or , if I am not mistaken , Adam was the first of our calling . 
He had by this time got them into the best parlour , where the portrait by Spiller , and the bust by Spoker , were . 
'My daughters , said Mr Pecksniff , 'will be overjoyed . 
Their fair young friend , too , said Mr Pecksniff , 'whom they so desire to know and love indeed to know her , is to love I hope I see her well . 
I hope in saying , Welcome to my humble roof ! I find some echo in her own sentiments . 
If features are an index to the heart , I have no fears of that . 
An extremely engaging expression of countenance , Mr Chuzzlewit , my dear sir very much so ! 'Mary , said the old man , 'Mr Pecksniff flatters you . 
But flattery from him is worth the having . 
He is not a dealer in it , and it comes from his heart . 
We thought Mr 'Pinch , said Mary . 
'Mr Pinch would have arrived before us , Pecksniff . 
No , said Mr Pecksniff , answering their looks , 'I am sorry to say , she is not . 
It is merely an hysterical affection nothing more , I am not uneasy . 
Mr Pinch ! Thomas ! exclaimed Pecksniff , in his kindest accents . 
I shall make no stranger of you . 
Thomas is a friend of mine , of rather long standing , Mr Chuzzlewit , you must know . 
'Thank you , sir , said Tom . 
'Pecksniff , he said after a pause , rising and taking him aside towards the window , 'I was much shocked on hearing of my brother's death . 
We had been strangers for many years . 
My only comfort is that he must have lived the happier and better man for having associated no hopes or schemes with me . 
Peace to his memory ! We were play fellows once and it would have been better for us both if we had died then . 
Finding him in this gentle mood , Mr Pecksniff began to see another way out of his difficulties , besides the casting overboard of Jonas . 
'That any man , my dear sir , could possibly be the happier for not knowing you , he returned , 'you will excuse my doubting . 
'How's this ? said the old man . 
'You are not a legatee ? 'You don't , said Mr Pecksniff , with a melancholy pressure of his hand , 'quite understand my nature yet , I find . 
No , sir , I am not a legatee . 
I am proud to say I am not a legatee . 
I am proud to say that neither of my children is a legatee . 
And yet , sir , I was with him at his own request . 
HE understood me somewhat better , sir . 
He wrote and said , I am sick . 
Come to me ! I went to him . 
I sat beside his bed , sir , and I stood beside his grave . 
Yes , at the risk of offending even you , I did it , sir . 
Though the avowal should lead to our instant separation , and to the severing of those tender ties between us which have recently been formed , I make it . 
But I am not a legatee , said Mr Pecksniff , smiling dispassionately 'and I never expected to be a legatee . 
I knew better ! 'His son a pattern ! cried old Martin . 
'How can you tell me that ? My brother had in his wealth the usual doom of wealth , and root of misery . 
He carried his corrupting influence with him , go where he would and shed it round him , even on his hearth . 
'No ! cried Mr Pecksniff , boldly . 
'Not at all , sir ! 'But I saw that shadow in his house , said Martin Chuzzlewit , 'the last time we met , and warned him of its presence . 
I know it when I see it , do I not ? I , who have lived within it all these years ! 'I deny it , Mr Pecksniff answered , warmly . 
That bereaved young man is now in this house , sir , seeking in change of scene the peace of mind he has lost . 
She saw Mr Jonas in a trying time . 
She is respectable , but not sentimental , and will state the fact . 
A line addressed to Mrs Gamp , at the BirdShop , Kingsgate Street , High Holborn , London , will meet with every attention , I have no doubt . 
Let her be examined , my good sir . 
In proof of the character he gave himself , Mr Pecksniff suffered tears of honesty to ooze out of his eyes . 
'In a friendly spirit , I hope ? said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Forgive me , sir but he is in the receipt of my humble hospitality . 
'I said , replied the old man , 'let me see him . 
If I were disposed to regard him in any other than a friendly spirit , I should have said keep us apart . 
'Certainly , my dear sir . 
You are frankness itself , I know . 
I will break this happiness to him , said Mr Pecksniff , as he left the room , 'if you will excuse me for a minute gently . 
He paved the way to the disclosure so very gently , that a quarter of an hour elapsed before he returned with Mr Jonas . 
In the meantime the young ladies had made their appearance , and the table had been set out for the refreshment of the travellers . 
'Nephew , said the old man . 
'You have been a dutiful son , I hear . 
'As dutiful as sons in general , I suppose , returned Jonas , looking up and down once more . 
'I don't brag to have been any better than other sons but I haven't been any worse , I dare say . 
'A pattern to all sons , I am told , said the old man , glancing towards Mr Pecksniff . 
'Ecod ! said Jonas , looking up again for a moment , and shaking his head , 'I've been as good a son as ever you were a brother . 
It's the pot and the kettle , if you come to that . 
'You speak bitterly , in the violence of your regret , said Martin , after a pause . 
Jonas did so , and was almost at his ease . 
He then proceeded to do the honours of the house with his accustomed ease and amiability . 
But not even Mr Pecksniff's guileless merriment could set such a party at their ease , or reconcile materials so utterly discordant and conflicting as those with which he had to deal . 
did not at all improve this state of things gentle and quiet though her manner was . 
Perhaps he had never in his life felt such relief as when old Martin , looking at his watch , announced that it was time to go . 
'We have rooms , he said , 'at the Dragon , for the present . 
I have a fancy for the evening walk . 
The nights are dark just now perhaps Mr Pinch would not object to light us home ? 'My dear sir ! cried Pecksniff , 'I shall be delighted . 
Merry , my child , the lantern . 
'The lantern , if you please , my dear , said Martin 'but I couldn't think of taking your father out of doors to night and , to be brief , I won't . 
Mr Pecksniff already had his hat in his hand , but it was so emphatically said that he paused . 
'I take Mr Pinch , or go alone , said Martin . 
'Which shall it be ? 'It shall be Thomas , sir , cried Pecksniff , 'since you are so resolute upon it . 
Thomas , my friend , be very careful , if you please . 
Tom was in some need of this injunction , for he felt so nervous , and trembled to such a degree , that he found it difficult to hold the lantern . 
'How long have you known my nephew ? asked Martin . 
'Your nephew , sir ? faltered Tom . 
'Mr Jonas Chuzzlewit , said Mary . 
'Oh dear , yes , cried Tom , greatly relieved , for his mind was running upon Martin . 
I never spoke to him before to night , sir ! 'Perhaps half a lifetime will suffice for the acknowledgment of HIS kindness , observed the old man . 
Tom felt that this was a rebuff for him , and could not but understand it as a left handed hit at his employer . 
Mary felt that Mr Pinch was not remarkable for presence of mind , and that he could not say too little under existing circumstances . 
'You're like the rest , he thought , glancing at the face of the unconscious Tom . 
'You had nearly imposed upon me , but you have lost your labour . 
You are too zealous a toad eater , and betray yourself , Mr Pinch . 
During the whole remainder of the walk , not another word was spoken . 
First among the meetings to which Tom had long looked forward with a beating heart , it was memorable for nothing but embarrassment and confusion . 
They parted at the Dragon door and sighing as he extinguished the candle in the lantern , Tom turned back again over the gloomy fields . 
As he approached the first stile , which was in a lonely part , made very dark by a plantation of young firs , a man slipped past him and went on before . 
Coming to the stile he stopped , and took his seat upon it . 
Tom was rather startled , and for a moment stood still , but he stepped forward again immediately , and went close up to him . 
It was Jonas swinging his legs to and fro , sucking the head of a stick , and looking with a sneer at Tom . 
'Good gracious me ! cried Tom , 'who would have thought of its being you ! You followed us , then ? 'What's that to you ? said Jonas . 
'Go to the devil ! 'You are not very civil , I think , remarked Tom . 
'Civil enough for YOU , retorted Jonas . 
'Who are you ? 'One who has as good a right to common consideration as another , said Tom mildly . 
'You're a liar , said Jonas . 
'You haven't a right to any consideration . 
You haven't a right to anything . 
But I hope your joke is over . 
But that won't do with me . 
Now just attend to me for a bit , Mr Pitch , or Witch , or Stitch , or whatever your name is . 
'My name is Pinch , observed Tom . 
'Have the goodness to call me by it . 
'What ! You mustn't even be called out of your name , mustn't you ! cried Jonas . 
'Pauper' prentices are looking up , I think . 
Ecod , we manage 'em a little better in the city ! 'Never mind what you do in the city , said Tom . 
'What have you got to say to me ? 'Just this , Mister Pinch , retorted Jonas , thrusting his face so close to Tom's that Tom was obliged to retreat a step . 
'I advise you to keep your own counsel , and to avoid title tattle , and not to cut in where you're not wanted . 
You know , when curs won't leave the course clear , they're whipped off so this is kind advice . 
Make room for me , if you please . 
'Don't think it ! said Jonas , spreading out his legs . 
And I don't choose now . 
I am not a tale bearer , and I despise all meanness . 
Ah ! cried Tom , indignantly . 
'Is this manly from one in your position to one in mine ? Please to make room for me to pass . 
The less I say , the better . 
'The less you say ! retorted Jonas , dangling his legs the more , and taking no heed of this request . 
'You say very little , don't you ? Ecod , I should like to know what goes on between you and a vagabond member of my family . 
There's very little in that too , I dare say ! 'I know no vagabond member of your family , cried Tom , stoutly , 'You do ! said Jonas . 
'I don't , said Tom . 
'Your uncle's namesake , if you mean him , is no vagabond . 
Any comparison between you and him' Tom snapped his fingers at him , for he was rising fast in wrath 'is immeasurably to your disadvantage . 
'Oh indeed ! sneered Jonas . 
'And what do you think of his deary his beggarly leavings , eh , Mister Pinch ? 'I don't mean to say another word , or stay here another instant , replied Tom . 
'As I told you before , you're a liar , said Jonas , coolly . 
'You'll stay here till I give you leave to go . 
In the momentary struggle for the stick , Tom had brought it into violent contact with his opponent's forehead and the blood welled out profusely from a deep cut on the temple . 
Tom was first apprised of this by seeing that he pressed his handkerchief to the wounded part , and staggered as he rose , being stunned . 
'Are you hurt ? said Tom . 
Lean on me for a moment . 
You can do that without forgiving me , if you still bear me malice . 
But I don't know why for I never offended you before we met on this spot . 
Nothing more passed between them as they went home . 
Jonas kept a little in advance , and Tom Pinch sadly followed , thinking of the grief which the knowledge of this quarrel must occasion his excellent benefactor . 
'Don't make a noise about it , he said . 
'Cold water , Merry , my child ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'Brown paper ! Scissors ! A piece of old linen ! Charity , my dear , make a bandage . 
Bless me , Mr Jonas ! 'Oh , bother YOUR nonsense , returned the gracious son in law elect . 
'Be of some use if you can . 
'Mr Pinch , she whispered . 
He was stupefied with amazement . 
'Was it so , or not ? she eagerly demanded . 
'I was very much provoked , said Tom . 
'Then it was ? cried Charity , with sparkling eyes . 
We had a struggle for the path , said Tom . 
'But I didn't mean to hurt him so much . 
'Not so much ! she repeated , clenching her hand and stamping her foot , to Tom's great wonder . 
It was brave of you . 
I honour you for it . 
If you should ever quarrel again , don't spare him for the world , but beat him down and set your shoe upon him . 
Not a word of this to anybody . 
Dear Mr Pinch , I am your friend from tonight . 
I am always your friend from this time . 
She turned her flushed face upon Tom to confirm her words by its kindling expression and seizing his right hand , pressed it to her breast , and kissed it . 
Tom went into his room , and went to bed , full of uncomfortable thoughts . 
, he really began to regard himself as destined by a mysterious fate to be the evil genius and bad angel of his patron . 
But he fell asleep at last , and dreamed new source of waking uneasiness that he had betrayed his trust , and run away with Mary Graham . 
It must be acknowledged that , asleep or awake , Tom's position in reference to this young lady was full of uneasiness . 
When she spoke , Tom held his breath , so eagerly he listened when she sang , he sat like one entranced . 
Honourably mindful of his promise , Tom gave her opportunities of all kinds . 
But no at all such times she carefully avoided him , or never came in his way unaccompanied . 
All this time old Martin came and went in his own strange manner , or sat among the rest absorbed within himself , and holding little intercourse with any one . 
It was impossible to discern in whom he took an interest , or whether he had an interest in any of them . 
Unless they spoke to him directly , he never showed that he had ears or eyes for anything that passed . 
Raising her eyes in the expectation of seeing her betrothed , she was not a little surprised to see old Martin instead . 
Not yet awhile , I hope . 
'You hope ? said the old man . 
It was very gravely said , but she took it for banter , and giggled excessively . 
'I have not given it all away , I can tell you , said Merry , nodding her head shrewdly , and plucking up the grass . 
'Have you parted with any of it ? She threw the grass about , and looked another way , but said nothing . 
'Lor , my dear Mr Chuzzlewit ! really you must excuse me ! How very odd you are . 
'If it be odd in me to desire to know whether you love the young man whom I understand you are to marry , I AM very odd , said Martin . 
'For that is certainly my wish . 
'He's such a monster , you know , said Merry , pouting . 
'Then you don't love him ? returned the old man . 
'Is that your meaning ? 'Why , my dear Mr Chuzzlewit , I'm sure I tell him a hundred times a day that I hate him . 
You must have heard me tell him that . 
'And so I do , cried Merry . 
'Being at the same time engaged to marry him , observed the old man . 
'Oh yes , said Merry . 
She had a suspicion that the old man regarded Jonas with anything but favour , and intended these remarks to be extremely captivating . 
He did not appear , however , to regard them in that light by any means for when he spoke again , it was in a tone of severity . 
Think , and speak , and act , for once , like an accountable creature . 
'I don't know that I am . 
'Don't know that you are ! Are you ? 'No , replied Merry . 
'Nobody ever said anything to me about it . 
If any one had tried to make me have him , I wouldn't have had him at all . 
'I am told that he was at first supposed to be your sister's admirer , said Martin . 
'Oh , good gracious ! My dear Mr Chuzzlewit , it would be very hard to make him , though he IS a monster , accountable for other people's vanity , said Merry . 
'Not forced , persuaded , or controlled , said Martin , thoughtfully . 
'And that's true , I see . 
There is one chance yet . 
You may have lapsed into this engagement in very giddiness . 
It may have been the wanton act of a light head . 
Is that so ? 'My dear Mr Chuzzlewit , simpered Merry , 'as to light headedness , there never was such a feather of a head as mine . 
No. She didn't know that she had . 
She was pretty sure she hadn't . 
Quite sure , she might say . 
'My dear Mr Chuzzlewit , what shocking words ! Of course , I shall quarrel with him . 
I should quarrel with any husband . 
Married people always quarrel , I believe . 
I always do now , cried Merry , nodding her head and giggling very much 'for I make a perfect slave of the creature . 
'Let it go on , said Martin , rising . 
'Let it go on ! I sought to know your mind , my dear , and you have shown it me . 
Joy ! he repeated , looking full upon her , and pointing to the wicket gate where Jonas entered at the moment . 
And then , without waiting for his nephew , he passed out at another gate , and went away . 
'Oh , you terrible old man ! cried the facetious Merry to herself . 
'What a perfectly hideous monster to be wandering about churchyards in the broad daylight , frightening people out of their wits ! Don't come here , Griffin , or I'll go away directly . 
Mr Jonas was the Griffin . 
He sat down upon the grass at her side , in spite of this warning , and sulkily inquired 'What's my uncle been a talking about ? 'About you , rejoined Merry . 
'He says you're not half good enough for me . 
'Oh , yes , I dare say ! We all know that . 
He means to give you some present worth having , I hope . 
Did he say anything that looked like it ? 'THAT he didn't ! cried Merry , most decisively . 
'A stingy old dog he is , said Jonas . 
'Well ? 'Griffin ! cried Miss Mercy , in counterfeit amazement 'what are you doing , Griffin ? 'Only giving you a squeeze , said the discomfited Jonas . 
'There's no harm in that , I suppose ? 'But there is great deal of harm in it , if I don't consider it agreeable , returned his cousin . 
'Do go along , will you ? You make me so hot ! Mr Jonas withdrew his arm , and for a moment looked at her more like a murderer than a lover . 
But he cleared his brow by degrees , and broke silence with 'I say , Mel ! 'What do you say , you vulgar thing you low savage ? cried his fair betrothed . 
So , Mel , said Jonas , venturing on another squeeze 'when shall it be ? 'Upon my word ! cried Merry . 
'Upon my soul , if you like , said Jonas . 
'What do you say to next week , now ? 'To next week ! If you had said next quarter , I should have wondered at your impudence . 
'But I didn't say next quarter , retorted Jonas . 
'Then , Griffin , cried Miss Merry , pushing him off , and rising . 
'I say no ! not next week . 
It shan't be till I choose , and I may not choose it to be for months . 
There ! He glanced up at her from the ground , almost as darkly as he had looked at Tom Pinch but held his peace . 
'No fright of a Griffin with a patch over his eye shall dictate to me or have a voice in the matter , said Merry . 
'There ! Still Mr Jonas held his peace . 
There ! v And if you don't do everything I order you to do , it shall never be at all . 
There , Griffin ! And with that , she skipped away , among the trees . 
'Ecod , my lady ! said Jonas , looking after her , and biting a piece of straw , almost to powder 'you'll catch it for this , when you ARE married . 
It's all very well now it keeps one on , somehow , and you know it but I'll pay you off scot and lot by and bye . 
This is a plaguey dull sort of a place for a man to be sitting by himself in . 
I never could abide a mouldy old churchyard . 
As he turned into the avenue himself , Miss Merry , who was far ahead , happened to look back . 
'Ah ! said Jonas , with a sullen smile , and a nod that was not addressed to her . 
'Make the most of it while it lasts . 
Get in your hay while the sun shines . 
He was enjoying the sweets of domestic repose , and gazing on them with a calm delight . 
The day being sultry , and the window open , the legs of Mr Mould were on the window seat , and his back reclined against the shutter . 
Over his shining head a handkerchief was drawn , to guard his baldness from the flies . 
Deep in the City , and within the ward of Cheap , stood Mr Mould's establishment . 
In this domestic chamber Mr Mould now sat gazing , a placid man , upon his punch and home . 
The partner of his life , and daughters twain , were Mr Mould's companions . 
Plump as any partridge was each Miss Mould , and Mrs M. was plumper than the two together . 
Even their peachy cheeks were puffed out and distended , as though they ought of right to be performing on celestial trumpets . 
Mr Mould looked lovingly at Mrs Mould , who sat hard by , and was a helpmate to him in his punch as in all other things . 
Each seraph daughter , too , enjoyed her share of his regards , and smiled upon him in return . 
But , though the Misses Mould had been brought up , as one may say , beneath his eye , it had cast no shadow on their timid infancy or blooming youth . 
Sporting behind the scenes of death and burial from cradlehood , the Misses Mould knew better . 
Hat bands , to them , were but so many yards of silk or crape the final robe but such a quantity of linen . 
The Misses Mould could idealise a player's habit , or a court lady's petticoat , or even an act of parliament . 
But they were not to be taken in by palls . 
'Quite the buzz of insects , said Mr Mould , closing his eyes in a perfect luxury . 
'It puts one in mind of the sound of animated nature in the agricultural districts . 
It's exactly like the woodpecker tapping . 
'The woodpecker tapping the hollow ELM tree , observed Mrs Mould , adapting the words of the popular melody to the description of wood commonly used in the trade . 
'Ha , ha ! laughed Mr Mould . 
'Not at all bad , my dear . 
We shall be glad to hear from you again , Mrs M. Hollow elm tree , eh ! Ha , ha ! Very good indeed . 
I've seen worse than that in the Sunday papers , my love . 
Mrs Mould , thus encouraged , took a little more of the punch , and handed it to her daughters , who dutifully followed the example of their mother . 
'Hollow ELM tree , eh ? said Mr Mould , making a slight motion with his legs in his enjoyment of the joke . 
'It's beech in the song . 
Elm , eh ? Yes , to be sure . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Upon my life , you know , that ought to be sent to somebody who could make use of it . 
It's one of the smartest things that ever was said . 
Hollow ELM tree , eh ? of course . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Here a knock was heard at the room door . 
'That's Tacker , I know , said Mrs Mould , 'by the wheezing he makes . 
Who that hears him now , would suppose he'd ever had wind enough to carry the feathers on his head ! Come in , Tacker . 
'Beg your pardon , ma'am , said Tacker , looking in a little way . 
'I thought our Governor was here . 
'Well ! so he is , cried Mould . 
'Oh ! I didn't see you , I'm sure , said Tacker , looking in a little farther . 
Nothing to say to it . 
'I told 'em it was precious low , observed Mr Tacker . 
'Tell 'em to go somewhere else . 
We don't do that style of business here , said Mr Mould . 
'Like their impudence to propose it . 
Who is it ? 'Why , returned Tacker , pausing , 'that's where it is , you see . 
It's the beadle's son in law . 
'The beadle's son in law , eh ? said Mould . 
'Well ! I'll do it if the beadle follows in his cocked hat not else . 
We carry it off that way , by looking official , but it'll be low enough , then . 
His cocked hat , mind ! 'I'll take care , sir , rejoined Tacker . 
'Oh ! Mrs Gamp's below , and wants to speak to you . 
'Tell Mrs Gamp to come upstairs , said Mould . 
'Now Mrs Gamp , what's YOUR news ? The lady in question was by this time in the doorway , curtseying to Mrs Mould . 
At the same moment a peculiar fragrance was borne upon the breeze , as if a passing fairy had hiccoughed , and had previously been to a wine vaults . 
Say not the words , Mrs Harris , if you and me is to be continual friends , for sech is not the case . 
There were conflicting rumours on the subject but the prevalent opinion was that she was a phantom of Mrs Gamp's brain as Messrs . 
'More changes too , to come , afore we've done with changes , sir , said Mrs Gamp , nodding yet more waggishly than before . 
Oh yes , you do know , sir , said Mrs Gamp , wiping her eye with her shawl , and resuming the thread of her discourse . 
A good deal more , Mrs Gamp . 
For as to you and Mrs Mould , sir , ever having grandchildren 'Oh ! Fie , fie ! Nonsense , Mrs Gamp , replied the undertaker . 
Ca pi tal ! this was in a whisper . 
'My dear' aloud again 'Mrs Gamp can drink a glass of rum , I dare say . 
Sit down , Mrs Gamp , sit down . 
Mrs Harris , I says to her , none on us knows what we can do till we tries and wunst , when me and Gamp kept 'ouse , I thought so too . 
But now , I says , my half a pint of porter fully satisfies perwisin' , Mrs Harris , that it is brought reg'lar , and draw'd mild . 
'How's Mr Chuffey ? 'Mr Chuffey , sir , she replied , 'is jest as usual he an't no better and he an't no worse . 
There an't a many like him . 
If there was , we shouldn't want no churches . 
'What do you want to speak to me about , Mrs Gamp ? said Mould , coming to the point . 
'Jest this , sir , Mrs Gamp returned , 'with thanks to you for asking . 
There IS a gent , sir , at the Bull in Holborn , as has been took ill there , and is bad abed . 
They have a day nurse as was recommended from Bartholomew's and well I knows her , Mr Mould , her name bein' Mrs Prig , the best of creeturs . 
Send a boy to Kingsgate Street , she says , and snap her up at any price , for Mrs Gamp is worth her weight and more in goldian guineas . 
But I will go to Mr Mould , I says , and ast him , if you like . 
Here she looked sideways at the undertaker , and came to a stop . 
'Night watching , eh ? said Mould , rubbing his chin . 
'From eight o'clock till eight , sir . 
I will not deceive you , Mrs Gamp rejoined . 
'And then go back , eh ? said would . 
'Quite free , then , sir , to attend to Mr Chuffey . 
His ways bein' quiet , and his hours early , he'd be abed , sir , nearly all the time . 
Rich folks may ride on camels , but it an't so easy for 'em to see out of a needle's eye . 
That is my comfort , and I hope I knows it . 
'Well , Mrs Gamp , observed Mould , 'I don't see any particular objection to your earning an honest penny under such circumstances . 
I should keep it quiet , I think , Mrs Gamp . 
I wouldn't mention it to Mr Chuzzlewit on his return , for instance , unless it were necessary , or he asked you pointblank . 
'The very words was on my lips , sir , Mrs Gamp rejoined . 
But don't obtrude it , don't obtrude it . 
Easy , easy ! My dear , you may as well give Mrs Gamp a card or two , if you please . 
rose to take her departure . 
'Wishing ev'ry happiness to this happy family , said Mrs Gamp 'with all my heart . 
'Tut , tut ! Bah , bah ! Go along , Mrs Gamp ! cried the delighted undertaker . 
Be off , Mrs Gamp ! cried Mould . 
But in the height of his gratification he actually pinched Mrs Mould as he said it . 
'I'll tell you what , my dear , he observed , when Mrs Gamp had at last withdrawn and shut the door , 'that's a ve ry shrewd woman . 
That's a woman whose intellect is immensely superior to her station in life . 
That's a woman who observes and reflects in an uncommon manner . 
Remaining there until seven o'clock in the evening , and then persuading poor old Chuffey to betake himself to bed , she sallied forth upon her new engagement . 
'No better , then ? observed the gentleman . 
'Worse ! said the landlord . 
'Much worse , added the landlady . 
'Oh ! a deal badder , cried the chambermaid from the background , opening her eyes very wide , and shaking her head . 
'Poor fellow ! said the gentleman , 'I am sorry to hear it . 
The worst of it is , that I have no idea what friends or relations he has , or where they live , except that it certainly is not in London . 
, THAT was the waguest . 
'The fact is , you see , pursued the gentleman , 'as I told you yesterday when you sent to me , I really know very little about him . 
We were school fellows together but since that time I have only met him twice . 
, and lost sight of him again directly . 
Here is his letter , if you wish to see it . 
The landlord read it the landlady looked over him . 
'He has very little luggage , you say ? observed the gentleman , who was no other than our old friend , John Westlock . 
'Nothing but a portmanteau , said the landlord 'and very little in it . 
'A few pounds in his purse , though ? 'Yes . 
It's sealed up , and in the cash box . 
I made a memorandum of the amount , which you're welcome to see . 
Can you suggest anything else ? 'N no , replied the landlord , 'except 'Except , who's to pay , I suppose ? said John . 
'Why , hesitated the landlord , 'it would be as well . 
'Quite as well , said the landlady . 
'Not forgetting to remember the servants , said the chambermaid in a bland whisper . 
'It is but reasonable , I fully admit , said John Westlock . 
'At all events , you have the stock in hand to go upon for the present and I will readily undertake to pay the doctor and the nurses . 
'Ah ! cried Mrs Gamp . 
'A rayal gentleman ! She groaned her admiration so audibly , that they all turned round . 
Mrs Gamp felt the necessity of advancing , bundle in hand , and introducing herself . 
'The night nurse , she observed , 'from Kingsgate Street , well beknown to Mrs Prig the day nurse , and the best of creeturs . 
How is the poor dear gentleman to night ? If he an't no better yet , still that is what must be expected and prepared for . 
We knows each other's ways , and often gives relief when others fail . 
Our charges is but low , sir' Mrs Gamp addressed herself to John on this head 'considerin' the nater of our painful dooty . 
If they wos made accordin' to our wishes , they would be easy paid . 
Regarding herself as having now delivered her inauguration address , Mrs Gamp curtseyed all round , and signified her wish to be conducted to the scene of her official duties . 
That done , she hurried off with all the speed she could make . 
Mrs Prig was of the Gamp build , but not so fat and her voice was deeper and more like a man's . 
She had also a beard . 
'I began to think you warn't a coming ! Mrs Prig observed , in some displeasure . 
'It shall be made good to morrow night , said Mrs Gamp 'Honorable . 
I had to go and fetch my things . 
'Oh ! she said aloud , 'he's quiet , but his wits is gone . 
It an't no matter wot you say . 
'Anythin' to tell afore you goes , my dear ? asked Mrs Gamp , setting her bundle down inside the door , and looking affectionately at her partner . 
'The pickled salmon , Mrs Prig replied , 'is quite delicious . 
I can partlck'ler recommend it . 
Don't have nothink to say to the cold meat , for it tastes of the stable . 
The drinks is all good . 
Mrs Gamp expressed herself much gratified . 
'The physic and them things is on the drawers and mankleshelf , said Mrs Prig , cursorily . 
'He took his last slime draught at seven . 
The easy chair an't soft enough . 
Mrs Gamp thanked her for these hints , and giving her a friendly good night , held the door open until she had disappeared at the other end of the gallery . 
'A little dull , but not so bad as might be , Mrs Gamp remarked . 
'I'm glad to see a parapidge , in case of fire , and lots of roofs and chimley pots to walk upon . 
It will be seen from these remarks that Mrs Gamp was looking out of window . 
When she had exhausted the prospect , she tried the easy chair , which she indignantly declared was 'harder than a brickbadge . 
A young man dark and not ill looking with long black hair , that seemed the blacker for the whiteness of the bed clothes . 
His eyes were partly open , and he never ceased to roll his head from side to side upon the pillow , keeping his body almost quiet . 
Her fingers itched to compose his limbs in that last marble attitude . 
'Ah ! said Mrs Gamp , walking away from the bed , 'he'd make a lovely corpse . 
These preparations occupied so long , that when they were brought to a conclusion it was high time to think about supper so she rang the bell and ordered it . 
I takes new bread , my dear , with just a little pat of fresh butter , and a mossel of cheese . 
If they draws the Brighton Old Tipper here , I takes THAT ale at night , my love , it bein' considered wakeful by the doctors . 
A tray was brought with everything upon it , even to the cucumber and Mrs Gamp accordingly sat down to eat and drink in high good humour . 
The extent to which she availed herself of the vinegar , and supped up that refreshing fluid with the blade of her knife , can scarcely be expressed in narrative . 
'I a'most forgot the piller , I declare ! said Mrs Gamp , drawing it away . 
'There ! Now he's comfortable as he can be , I'm sure ! I must try to make myself as much so as I can . 
With this view , she went about the construction of an extemporaneous bed in the easy chair , with the addition of the next easy one for her feet . 
From the same repository she brought forth a night jacket , in which she also attired herself . 
All these arrangements made , she lighted the rush light , coiled herself up on her couch , and went to sleep . 
Ghostly and dark the room became , and full of lowering shadows . 
The distant noises in the streets were gradually hushed the house was quiet as a sepulchre the dead of might was coffined in the silent city . 
Still , from time to time , fatigue , impatience , suffering , and surprise , found utterance upon that rack , and plainly too , though never once in words . 
Mrs Gamp awoke , and sat up in her bed presenting on the wall the shadow of a gigantic night constable , struggling with a prisoner . 
'Come ! Hold your tongue ! she cried , in sharp reproof . 
'Don't make none of that noise here . 
There was no alteration in the face , or in the incessant motion of the head , but he talked on wildly . 
Don't you see how the fountain sinks ? Look at the mark where the sparkling water was just now ! 'Sparkling water , indeed ! said Mrs Gamp . 
'I'll have a sparkling cup o' tea , I think . 
I wish you'd hold your noise ! He burst into a laugh , which , being prolonged , fell off into a dismal wail . 
Checking himself , with fierce inconstancy he began to count fast . 
'One two three four five six . 
If I'd got a few handy , I should have the kettle boiling all the sooner . 
She maintained , all the while , a running commentary upon the wanderings of the man in bed . 
'Look there ! Five hundred and twenty two twenty three twenty four . 
Touch me ! 'You'll take your next draught when I've made the kettle bile , retorted Mrs Gamp , composedly , 'and you'll be touched then . 
You'll be touched up , too , if you don't take it quiet . 
'Five hundred and twenty eight , five hundred and twenty nine , five hundred and thirty . 
Look here ! 'What's the matter now ? said Mrs Gamp . 
'They're coming four abreast , each man with his arm entwined in the next man's , and his hand upon his shoulder . 
What's that upon the arm of every man , and on the flag ? 'Spiders , p'raps , said Mrs Gamp . 
'Crape ! Black crape ! Good God ! why do they wear it outside ? 'Would you have 'em carry black crape in their insides ? Mrs Gamp retorted . 
'Hold your noise , hold your noise . 
She expected to find the passage filled with people , come to tell her that the house in the city had taken fire . 
But the place was empty not a soul was there . 
She opened the window , and looked out . 
Dark , dull , dingy , and desolate house tops . 
As she passed to her seat again , she glanced at the patient . 
Just the same but silent . 
Mrs Gamp was so warm now , that she threw off the watchman's coat , and fanned herself . 
'It seemed to make the wery bottles ring , she said . 
'What could I have been a dreaming of ? That dratted Chuffey , I'll be bound . 
The supposition was probable enough . 
At any rate , a pinch of snuff , and the song of the steaming kettle , quite restored the tone of Mrs Gamp's nerves , which were none of the weakest . 
She brewed her tea made some buttered toast and sat down at the tea board , with her face to the fire . 
The cry had come from the bed . 
It was bright morning the next time Mrs Gamp looked out of the window , and the sun was rising cheerfully . 
Lighter and lighter grew the sky , and noisier the streets and high into the summer air uprose the smoke of newly kindled fires , until the busy day was broad awake . 
Mrs Prig relieved punctually , having passed a good night at her other patient's . 
Mr Westlock came at the same time , but he was not admitted , the disorder being infectious . 
The doctor shook his head . 
It was all he could do , under the circumstances , and he did it well . 
'What sort of a night , nurse ? 'Restless , sir , said Mrs Gamp . 
'Talk much ? 'Middling , sir , said Mrs Gamp . 
'Nothing to the purpose , I suppose ? 'Oh bless you , no , sir . 
'Well ! said the doctor , 'we must keep him quiet keep the room cool give him his draughts regularly and see that he's carefully looked to . 
That's all ! 'And as long as Mrs Prig and me waits upon him , sir , no fear of that , said Mrs Gamp . 
'I suppose , observed Mrs Prig , when they had curtseyed the doctor out 'there's nothin' new ? 'Nothin' at all , my dear , said Mrs Gamp . 
'He's rather wearin' in his talk from making up a lot of names elseways you needn't mind him . 
'Oh , I shan't mind him , Mrs Prig returned . 
'I have somethin' else to think of . 
'I pays my debts to night , you know , my dear , and comes afore my time , said Mrs Gamp . 
The name of the householder was Paul Sweedlepipe . 
But he was commonly called Poll Sweedlepipe and was not uncommonly believed to have been so christened , among his friends and neighbours . 
With the exception of the staircase , and his lodger's private apartment , Poll Sweedlepipe's house was one great bird's nest . 
The staircase was sacred to rabbits . 
Many noses found their way there , for all that , especially on Sunday morning , before church time . 
He was a little elderly man , with a clammy cold right hand , from which even rabbits and birds could not remove the smell of shaving soap . 
Poll had something of the bird in his nature not of the hawk or eagle , but of the sparrow , that builds in chimney stacks and inclines to human company . 
He was not quarrelsome , though , like the sparrow but peaceful , like the dove . 
Yet there was no more wickedness in Poll than in a robin . 
Poll had a very small , shrill treble voice , which might have led the wags of Kingsgate Street to insist the more upon his feminine designation . 
The question , whether men were made to shoot them , never entered into Poll's philosophy . 
Pursuing his more quiet occupation of barber , he generally subsided into an apron not over clean , a flannel jacket , and corduroy knee shorts . 
For until it did this was Mr Sweedlepipe's reflection the place never seemed quiet enough to be left to itself . 
'It's the greediest little bell to ring , said Poll , 'that ever was . 
But it's quiet at last . 
He rolled his apron up a little tighter as he said these words , and hastened down the street . 
Just as he was turning into Holborn , he ran against a young gentleman in a livery . 
This youth was bold , though small , and with several lively expressions of displeasure , turned upon him instantly . 
'Now , STOO PID ! cried the young gentleman . 
'It can't be you ! 'No . 
It an't me , returned the youth . 
'It's my son , my oldest one . 
'I wouldn't have believed it , said Poll . 
'D'ye know a pair of top boots when you see 'em , Polly ? look here ! 'Beau ti ful' cried Mr Sweedlepipe . 
'D'ye know a slap up sort of button , when you see it ? said the youth . 
'Don't look at mine , if you ain't a judge , because these lions' heads was made for men of taste not snobs . 
'Beau ti ful ! cried the barber again . 
'A grass green frock coat , too , bound with gold and a cockade in your hat ! 'I should hope so , replied the youth . 
'Blow the cockade , though for , except that it don't turn round , it's like the wentilator that used to be in the kitchen winder at Todgers's . 
You ain't seen the old lady's name in the Gazette , have you ? 'No , returned the barber . 
'Is she a bankrupt ? 'If she ain't , she will be , retorted Bailey . 
'That bis'ness never can be carried on without ME . 
Well ! How are you ? 'Oh ! I'm pretty well , said Poll . 
'All my bis'ness lays at the West End . 
I've got the right sort of governor now . 
You can't see his face for his whiskers , and can't see his whiskers for the dye upon 'em . 
That's a gentleman ain't it ? You wouldn't like a ride in a cab , would you ? Why , it wouldn't be safe to offer it . 
You'd faint away , only to see me a comin' at a mild trot round the corner . 
'Why , he's own uncle to Capricorn , said Bailey , 'and brother to Cauliflower . 
He's been through the winders of two chaney shops since we've had him , and was sold for killin' his missis . 
'You'll never want to buy any more red polls now , to hang up over the sink , will you ? 'I should think not , replied Bailey . 
I wouldn't have nothin' to say to any bird below a Peacock and HE'd be wulgar . 
Well , how are you ? 'Oh ! I'm pretty well , said Poll . 
'Wot are you up to , old feller ? added Mr Bailey , with the same graceful rakishness . 
He was quite the man about town of the conversation , while the easy shaver was the child . 
'Why , I am going to fetch my lodger home , said Paul . 
'He's newly married , and he brings his young wife home to night , said the barber . 
'So I'm going to fetch my lodger away Mr Chuzzlewit's , close behind the Post Office and carry her box for her . 
'Jonas Chuzzlewit's ? said Bailey . 
'Ah ! returned Paul 'that's the name sure enough . 
Do you know him ? 'Oh , no ! cried Mr Bailey 'not at all . 
And I don't know her ! Not neither ! Why , they first kept company through me , a'most . 
'Ah ! said Mr Bailey , with a wink 'and she ain't bad looking mind you . 
But her sister was the best . 
SHE was the merry one . 
There was an old principle within him , and a young surface without . 
He became an inexplicable creature a breeched and booted Sphinx . 
There was no course open to the barber , but to go distracted himself , or to take Bailey for granted and he wisely chose the latter . 
Paul knocked at Jonas Chuzzlewit's and , on the door being opened by that lady , made the two distinguished persons known to one another . 
It was a happy feature in Mrs Gamp's twofold profession , that it gave her an interest in everything that was young as well as in everything that was old . 
She received Mr Bailey with much kindness . 
'It's very good , I'm sure , of you to come , she said to her landlord , 'as well as bring so nice a friend . 
But I'm afraid that I must trouble you so far as to step in , for the young couple has not yet made appearance . 
'They're late , ain't they ? inquired her landlord , when she had conducted them downstairs into the kitchen . 
'Well , sir , considern' the Wings of Love , they are , said Mrs Gamp . 
'He knows Mrs Chuzzlewit , said Paul aloud . 
'There's nothin' he don't know that's my opinion , observed Mrs Gamp . 
'All the wickedness of the world is Print to him . 
Mr Bailey received this as a compliment , and said , adjusting his cravat , 'reether so . 
'As you knows Mrs Chuzzlewit , you knows , p'raps , what her chris'en name is ? Mrs Gamp observed . 
'That it ain't ! cried Mrs Gamp . 
'Cherry , then , said Bailey . 
'It don't begin with a C at all , retorted Mrs Gamp , shaking her head . 
He was yet in the fullness of his narrative when the sound of wheels , and a double knock at the street door , announced the arrival of the newly married couple . 
'Wishing you appiness and joy with all my art , said Mrs Gamp , dropping a curtsey as they entered the hall 'and you , too , sir . 
Your lady looks a little tired with the journey , Mr Chuzzlewit , a pretty dear ! 'She has bothered enough about it , grumbled Mr Jonas . 
'Now , show a light , will you ? 'This way , ma'am , if you please , said Mrs Gamp , going upstairs before them . 
The death that had gone before the bridal seemed to have left its shade upon the house . 
The air was heavy and oppressive the rooms were dark a deep gloom filled up every chink and corner . 
Upon the hearthstone , like a creature of ill omen , sat the aged clerk , with his eyes fixed on some withered branches in the stove . 
He rose and looked at her . 
'And Mr Chuffey may thank you for it , as many and many a time I've told him . 
Mr Jonas was not in the best of humours , for he merely said , as he looked round , 'We don't want you any more , you know , Mrs Gamp . 
'I'm a going immediate , sir , returned the nurse 'unless there's nothink I can do for you , ma'am . 
Gamp is my name , and Gamp my nater . 
'Ah ! wait till you hear her laugh ! said Bailey . 
'Hem ! cried Mrs Gamp , in a kind of groan . 
It was a pleasant instance of this youth's precocity , that he fancied Mrs Gamp had conceived a tenderness for him , and was much tickled by her misplaced attachment . 
As the door closed heavily behind them , Mrs Jonas sat down in a chair , and felt a strange chill creep upon her , whilst she looked about the room . 
It was pretty much as she had known it , but appeared more dreary . 
She had thought to see it brightened to receive her . 
'It ain't good enough for you , I suppose ? said Jonas , watching her looks . 
'Why , it IS dull , said Merry , trying to be more herself . 
'It'll be duller before you're done with it , retorted Jonas , 'if you give me any of your airs . 
You're a nice article , to turn sulky on first coming home ! Ecod , you used to have life enough , when you could plague me with it . 
'You are not married ? he said eagerly . 
Good Heaven , what is the matter ? He answered nothing was the matter and turned from her . 
CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN SHOWING THAT OLD FRIENDS MAY NOT ONLY APPEAR WITH NEW FACES , BUT IN FALSE COLOURS . 
THAT PEOPLE ARE PRONE TO BITE , AND THAT BITERS MAY SOMETIMES BE BITTEN . 
Mr Bailey had a great opinion of Brother to Cauliflower , and estimated his powers highly . 
But he never told him so . 
James's Square at a hand gallop , and coming slowly into Pall Mall by another entry , as if , in the interval , his pace had been a perfect crawl . 
The appearance of Mr Bailey's governor as he drove along fully justified that enthusiastic youth's description of him to the wondering Poll . 
He had a world of jet black shining hair upon his head , upon his cheeks , upon his chin , upon his upper lip . 
His clothes , symmetrically made , were of the newest fashion and the costliest kind . 
The daylight mantled in his gleaming hat and boots as in a polished glass . 
And yet , though changed his name , and changed his outward surface , it was Tigg . 
The brass was burnished , lacquered , newly stamped yet it was the true Tigg metal notwithstanding . 
Beside him sat a smiling gentleman , of less pretensions and of business looks , whom he addressed as David . 
Surely not the David of the how shall it be phrased ? the triumvirate of golden balls ? Not David , tapster at the Lombards' Arms ? Yes . 
'The secretary's salary , David , said Mr Montague , 'the office being now established , is eight hundred pounds per annum , with his house rent , coals , and candles free . 
His five and twenty shares he holds , of course . 
Is that enough ? David smiled and nodded , and coughed behind a little locked portfolio which he carried with an air that proclaimed him to be the secretary in question . 
'If that's enough , said Montague , 'I will propose it at the Board to day , in my capacity as chairman . 
'The Anglo Bengalee , tittered the secretary . 
'The Anglo Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Assurance Company is rather a capital concern , I hope , David , said Montague . 
'Capital indeed ! cried the secretary , with another laugh in one sense . 
'In the only important one , observed the chairman 'which is number one , David . 
'What a chap you are ! exclaimed David admiringly , when this little alarm had subsided . 
'Say , genius , David , genius . 
Well , upon my soul , you ARE a genius then , said David . 
'I always knew you had the gift of the gab , of course but I never believed you were half the man you are . 
How could I ? 'I rise with circumstances , David . 
That's a point of genius in itself , said Tigg . 
, I should rise , in a mental point of view , directly . 
It is due to Mr Tigg to say that he had really risen with his opportunities and , peculating on a grander scale , he had become a grander man altogether . 
'Ha , ha , cried the secretary , laying his hand , with growing familiarity , upon the chairman's arm . 
Upon my soul you might ! 'It a devilish fine property , said Tigg Montague , 'to be amenable to any claims . 
The preserve of tigers alone is worth a mint of money , David . 
'A capital idea ? said Tigg , returning after a time to his companion's first remark 'no doubt it was a capital idea . 
It was my idea , said David . 
'Hang it , let a man have some credit . 
'Why , there , David was obliged to confess , 'you had the advantage of me , I admit . 
But I don't put myself on a level with you . 
I only want a little credit in the business . 
'All the credit you deserve to have , said Tigg . 
'The plain work of the company , David figures , books , circulars , advertisements , pen , ink , and paper , sealing wax and wafers is admirably done by you . 
You are a first rate groveller . 
But the ornamental department , David the inventive and poetical department 'Is entirely yours , said his friend . 
'Does it gain the purpose ? Is it Anglo Bengalee ? asked Tigg . 
'Could you undertake it yourself ? demanded Tigg . 
'Ha , ha ! laughed Tigg . 
It is repeated at every turn until the eyes are dazzled with it , and the head is giddy . 
, is the best guarantee that can reasonably be suggested by the Board of Management for its permanence and stability . 
This gentleman's name , by the way , had been originally Crimp but as the word was susceptible of an awkward construction and might be misrepresented , he had altered it to Crimple . 
No confidences existed between him and the Directorship nobody knew where he had served last no character or explanation had been given or required . 
No questions had been asked on either side . 
This mysterious being , relying solely on his figure , had applied for the situation , and had been instantly engaged on his own terms . 
It went on doubling itself with every square inch of his red waistcoat until , like the problem of the nails in the horse's shoes , the total became enormous . 
And yet he was not a giant . 
His coat was rather small than otherwise . 
The whole charm was in his waistcoat . 
Respectability , competence , property in Bengal or anywhere else , responsibility to any amount on the part of the company that employed him , were all expressed in that one garment . 
Rival offices had endeavoured to lure him away Lombard Street itself had beckoned to him rich companies had whispered 'Be a Beadle ! but he still continued faithful to the Anglo Bengalee . 
Whether he was a deep rogue , or a stately simpleton , it was impossible to make out , but he appeared to believe in the Anglo Bengalee . 
This was the board everything else being a light hearted little fiction . 
'Bullamy ! said Mr Tigg . 
'Sir ! replied the porter . 
'Let the Medical Officer know , with my compliments , that I wish to see him . 
Bullamy cleared his throat , and bustled out into the office , crying 'The Chairman of the Board wishes to see the Medical Officer . 
'Jobling , my dear friend ! said Mr Tigg , 'how are you ? Bullamy , wait outside . 
Crimple , don't leave us . 
Jobling , my good fellow , I am glad to see you . 
, and taking a handsome gold snuff box from the pocket of his black satin waistcoat . 
'How are you ? A little worn with business , eh ? If so , rest . 
A little feverish from wine , humph ? If so , water . 
Nothing at all the matter , and quite comfortable ? Then take some lunch . 
A very wholesome thing at this time of day to strengthen the gastric juices with lunch , Mr Montague . 
'Not on my account , I hope ? said the doctor . 
Allow me to illustrate this . 
'What do you pick MY leg out for ? said Mr Crimple , looking with something of an anxious expression at his limb . 
'But I do mind , said David . 
'I take a particular case , Mr Montague , returned the doctor , 'as illustrating my remark , you observe . 
In this portion of Mr Crimple's leg , sir , there is a certain amount of animal oil . 
In every one of Mr Crimple's joints , sir , there is more or less of the same deposit . 
If Mr Crimple neglects his meals , or fails to take his proper quantity of rest , that oil wanes , and becomes exhausted . 
'We know a few secrets of nature in our profession , sir , said the doctor . 
We study for that we pass the Hall and the College for that and we take our station in society BY that . 
It's extraordinary how little is known on these subjects generally . 
'Not at all , cried the doctor 'not at all . 
Quite a popular mistake ! My good sir , you're altogether deceived . 
'I feel it there , when it's out of order that's all I know , said Crimple . 
'You think you do , replied the doctor 'but science knows better . 
'By your leave there ! cried Bullamy , without . 
'By your leave ! Refreshment for the Board room ! 'Ha ! said the doctor , jocularly , as he rubbed his hands , and drew his chair nearer to the table . 
'The true Life Assurance , Mr Montague . 
The best Policy in the world , my dear sir . 
We should be provident , and eat and drink whenever we can . 
In certain quarters of the City and its neighbourhood , Mr Jobling was , as we have already seen in some measure , a very popular character . 
His neckerchief and shirt frill were ever of the whitest , his clothes of the blackest and sleekest , his gold watch chain of the heaviest , and his seals of the largest . 
His boots , which were always of the brightest , creaked as he walked . 
It seemed to express , 'I know what you're going to say better than you do but go on , go on . 
functionary , or to allow his connection to be misunderstood abroad , if he could help it . 
I am the medical officer , in consideration of a certain monthly payment . 
'and I receive it regularly . 
Therefore I am bound , so far as my own knowledge goes , to speak well of the establishment . 
Delicacy your amiable lady will agree with me I am sure should be one of the first characteristics of a medical man . 
'Very good , my dear sir , so the matter stands . 
You don't know Mr Montague ? I'm sorry for it . 
A remarkably handsome man , and quite the gentleman in every respect . 
Property , I am told , in India . 
House and everything belonging to him , beautiful . 
Costly furniture on the most elegant and lavish scale . 
And pictures , which , even in an anatomical point of view , are per fection . 
In case you should ever think of doing anything with the company , I'll pass you , you may depend upon it . 
I can conscientiously report you a healthy subject . 
'Well done ! 'Jobling , my dear friend , said Tigg , 'long life to you . 
Upon my word I've no right to draw the commission , said the doctor , 'I haven't really . 
I don't recommend anybody here . 
I only say what I know . 
My patients ask me what I know , and I tell 'em what I know . 
Caution is my weak side , that's the truth and always was from a boy . 
That is , said the doctor , filling his glass , 'caution in behalf of other people . 
Whether I would repose confidence in this company myself , if I had not been paying money elsewhere for many years that's quite another question . 
He tried to look as if there were no doubt about it but feeling that he did it but indifferently , changed the theme and praised the wine . 
'Talking of wine , said the doctor , 'reminds me of one of the finest glasses of light old port I ever drank in my life and that was at a funeral . 
You have not seen anything of of THAT party , Mr Montague , have you ? handing him a card . 
'He is not buried , I hope ? said Tigg , as he took it . 
'The honour of his company is not requested if he is . 
'Ha , ha ! laughed the doctor . 
He was honourably connected with that very occasion though . 
'Oh ! said Tigg , smoothing his moustache , as he cast his eyes upon the name . 
No. He has not been here . 
The words were on his lips , when Bullamy entered , and presented a card to the Medical Officer . 
'Talk of the what's his name observed the doctor rising . 
'And he's sure to appear , eh ? said Tigg . 
'Why , no , Mr Montague , no , returned the doctor . 
'We will not say that in the present case , for this gentleman is very far from it . 
'So much the better , retorted Tigg . 
'So much the more adaptable to the Anglo Bengalee . 
Bullamy , clear the table and take the things out by the other door . 
'Shall I introduce him ? asked Jobling . 
'I shall be eternally delighted , answered Tigg , kissing his hand and smiling sweetly . 
The doctor disappeared into the outer office , and immediately returned with Jonas Chuzzlewit . 
'Mr Montague , said Jobling . 
My dear friend our chairman . 
Now do you know , he added checking himself with infinite policy , and looking round with a smile 'that's a very singular instance of the force of example . 
It really is a very remarkable instance of the force of example . 
Why do I say our chairman ? Because he is not MY chairman , you know . 
Then why do I say our chairman ? Simply because I hear the phrase constantly repeated about me . 
Such is the involuntary operation of the mental faculty in the imitative biped man . 
Mr Crimple , I believe you never take snuff ? Injudicious . 
It is too common with all of us , but it is especially in the nature of a mean mind , to be overawed by fine clothes and fine furniture . 
They had a very decided influence on Jonas . 
'Now you two gentlemen have business to discuss , I know , said the doctor , 'and your time is precious . 
So is mine for several lives are waiting for me in the next room , and I have a round of visits to make after after I have taken 'em . 
Having had the happiness to introduce you to each other , I may go about my business . 
Mr Crimple also departed on the business of the morning and Jonas Chuzzlewit and Tigg were left alone . 
'I didn't tell HIM my thoughts . 
If he took it into his head that I was coming here for such or such a purpose , why , that's his lookout . 
I don't stand committed by that . 
'If I come here to ask a question or two , and get a document or two to consider of , I don't bind myself to anything . 
Let's understand that , you know , said Jonas . 
'My dear fellow ! cried Tigg , clapping him on the shoulder , 'I applaud your frankness . 
If men like you and I speak openly at first , all possible misunderstanding is avoided . 
Why should I disguise what you know so well , but what the crowd never dream of ? We companies are all birds of prey mere birds of prey . 
The only question is , whether in serving our own turn , we can serve yours too whether in double lining our own nest , we can put a single living into yours . 
Oh , you're in our secret . 
We'll make a merit of dealing plainly with you , when we know we can't help it . 
You know how to set about it , I WILL say . 
'Tut , tut , said Tigg , nodding confidentially , and showing his white teeth 'we are not children , Mr Chuzzlewit we are grown men , I hope . 
Greatly charmed by this , Jonas began again . 
'The long and the short of it is 'Better , muttered Tigg . 
'Much better ! That I didn't consider myself very well used by one or two of the old companies in some negotiations I have had with 'em once had , I mean . 
They started objections they had no right to start , and put questions they had no right to put , and carried things much too high for my taste . 
As he made these observations he cast down his eyes , and looked curiously at the carpet . 
Mr Tigg looked curiously at him . 
He made so long a pause , that Tigg came to the rescue , and said , in his pleasantest manner 'Take a glass of wine . 
'No , no , returned Jonas , with a cunning shake of the head 'none of that , thankee . 
All very well for you , but it wouldn't do for me . 
'What an old hand you are , Mr Chuzzlewit ! said Tigg , leaning back in his chair , and leering at him through his half shut eyes . 
That's rather green , you'll say . 
Perhaps it is , especially as she's young . 
But one never knows what may happen to these women , so I'm thinking of insuring her life . 
It is but fair , you know , that a man should secure some consolation in case of meeting with such a loss . 
'If anything can console him under such heart breaking circumstances , murmured Tigg , with his eyes shut up as before . 
'Exactly , returned Jonas 'if anything can . 
'So it is , cried Tigg , kissing his hand in honour of the sex . 
But I want to know what sort of security there is for the Company's going on . 
That's the 'Not the truth ? cried Tigg , holding up his jewelled hand . 
'Don't use that Sunday School expression , please ! 'The long and the short of it , said Jonas . 
'You do ? cried Tigg , stopping short . 
He turned the papers down again , and moving nearer to him , said in his ear 'I know you do . 
Look at me ! It was not much in Jonas's way to look straight at anybody but thus requested , he made shift to take a tolerable survey of the chairman's features . 
The chairman fell back a little , to give him the better opportunity . 
'You know me ? he inquired , elevating his eyebrows . 
No. I don't remember , even now . 
Was it in the street ? 'Was it in Pecksniff's parlour ? said Tigg 'In Pecksniff's parlour ! echoed Jonas , fetching a long breath . 
'You don't mean when 'Yes , cried Tigg , 'when there was a very charming and delightful little family party , at which yourself and your respected father assisted . 
'Well , never mind HIM , said Jonas . 
'He's dead , and there's no help for it . 
'Dead , is he ! cried Tigg , 'Venerable old gentleman , is he dead ! You're very like him . 
That gentleman perceived it , and tapping him familiarly on the sleeve , beckoned him to the window . 
From this moment , Mr Montague's jocularity and flow of spirits were remarkable . 
'Do you find me at all changed since that time ? he asked . 
Jonas looked hard at his waistcoat and jewels and said 'Rather , ecod ! 'Was I at all seedy in those days ? asked Montague . 
'Precious seedy , said Jonas . 
Mr Montague pointed down into the street , where Bailey and the cab were in attendance . 
Do you know whose it is ? 'No . 
Do you like this room ? 'It must have cost a lot of money , said Jonas . 
Join us ! Jonas stared at him in amazement . 
'Is that a crowded street ? asked Montague , calling his attention to the multitude without . 
'Very , said Jonas , only glancing at it , and immediately afterwards looking at him again . 
'There are printed calculations , said his companion , 'which will tell you pretty nearly how many people will pass up and down that thoroughfare in the course of a day . 
I can tell you how many of 'em will come in here , merely because they find this office here knowing no more about it than they do of the Pyramids . 
Ha , ha ! Join us . 
You shall come in cheap . 
Jonas looked at him harder and harder . 
Ha , ha ! Jonas gradually broke into a smile . 
'Yah ! said Montague , giving him a pleasant thrust in the breast 'you're too deep for us , you dog , or I wouldn't have told you . 
Dine with me to morrow , in Pall Mall ! 'I will' said Jonas . 
Take these papers with you and look 'em over . 
See , he said , snatching some printed forms from the table . 
'B is a little tradesman , clerk , parson , artist , author , any common thing you like . 
'Yes , said Jonas , looking greedily over his shoulder . 
'Well ! 'B wants a loan . 
Say fifty or a hundred pound perhaps more no matter . 
B proposes self and two securities . 
Two securities give a bond . 
B assures his own life for double the amount , and brings two friends' lives also just to patronize the office . 
Ha ha , ha ! Is that a good notion ? 'Ecod , that's a capital notion ! cried Jonas . 
'But does he really do it ? 'Do it ! repeated the chairman . 
'B's hard up , my good fellow , and will do anything . 
Don't you see ? It's my idea . 
I'm blest if it don't , said Jonas . 
'I think it does , replied the chairman , 'and I'm proud to hear you say so . 
B pays the highest lawful interest 'That an't much , interrupted Jonas . 
'Right ! quite right ! retorted Tigg . 
But charity begins at home , and justice begins next door . 
Ha , ha , ha ! I drive B , in point of fact , said Tigg , pointing to the cabriolet , 'and a thoroughbred horse he is . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Jonas enjoyed this joke very much indeed . 
It was quite in his peculiar vein of humour . 
Ha , ha , ha ! And we pay 'em too perhaps . 
Ha , ha , ha ! 'But there's responsibility in that , said Jonas , looking doubtful . 
'I take it all myself , said Tigg Montague . 
'Here I am responsible for everything . 
The only responsible person in the establishment ! Ha , ha , ha ! Then there are the Life Assurances without loans the common policies . 
Very profitable , very comfortable . 
Money down , you know repeated every year capital fun ! 'But when they begin to fall in , observed Jonas . 
'It's all very well , while the office is young , but when the policies begin to die that's what I am thinking of . 
'Brought you down where ? cried Jonas . 
And it was an upright grand too , so that I couldn't even sit upon it . 
But , my dear fellow , we got over it . 
, and got over it in no time . 
But it sounded like 'Bolt . 
'Why , you're as bold as brass ! said Jonas , in the utmost admiration . 
'You'll dine with me to morrow ? 'At what time ? asked Jonas . 
I see you'll join us ! 'I don't know about that , said Jonas . 
'There's a good deal to be looked into first . 
'You shall look , said Montague , slapping him on the back , 'into anything and everything you please . 
But you'll join us , I am convinced . 
You were made for it . 
Bullamy ! Obedient to the summons and the little bell , the waistcoat appeared . 
And he promptly entered shutting the board room door after him , as carefully as if he were about to plot a murder . 
He was the man at a pound a week who made the inquiries . 
It was no virtue or merit in Nadgett that he transacted all his Anglo Bengalee business secretly and in the closest confidence for he was born to be a secret . 
How he lived was a secret where he lived was a secret and even what he was , was a secret . 
He was always keeping appointments in the City , and the other man never seemed to come . 
He carried one stained beaver glove , which he dangled before him by the forefinger as he walked or sat but even its fellow was a secret . 
Some people said he had been a bankrupt , others that he had gone an infant into an ancient Chancery suit which was still depending , but it was all a secret . 
And yet he belonged to a class a race peculiar to the City who are secrets as profound to one another , as they are to the rest of mankind . 
Don't you mind what it is . 
Any you can scrape together , bring me . 
Bring it to me , Mr Nadgett . 
He withdrew with another bow and without a word opening the door no wider than was sufficient for his passage out and shutting it as carefully as before . 
The chairman of the board employed the rest of the morning in affixing his sign manual of gracious acceptance to various new proposals of annuity purchase and assurance . 
The Company was looking up , for they flowed in gayly . 
CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT MR MONTAGUE AT HOME . 
Firstly , there was money to be made by it . 
Secondly , the money had the peculiar charm of being sagaciously obtained at other people's cost . 
Thirdly , it involved much outward show of homage and distinction a board being an awful institution in its own sphere , and a director a mighty man . 
But he determined to proceed with cunning and caution , and to be very keen on his observation of the gentility of Mr Montague's private establishment . 
It was with a faltering hand , and yet with an imbecile attempt at a swagger , that he knocked at his new friend's door in Pall Mall when the appointed hour arrived . 
Mr Bailey quickly answered to the summons . 
He was not proud and was kindly disposed to take notice of Jonas but Jonas had forgotten him . 
'Mr Montague at home ? 'I should hope he wos at home , and waiting dinner , too , said Bailey , with the ease of an old acquaintance . 
'Will you take your hat up along with you , or leave it here ? Mr Jonas preferred leaving it there . 
'The hold name , I suppose ? said Bailey , with a grin . 
Mr Jonas stared at him in mute indignation . 
'What , don't you remember hold mother Todgers's ? said Mr Bailey , with his favourite action of the knees and boots . 
I say how you've growed ! Without pausing for any acknowledgement of this compliment , he ushered the visitor upstairs , and having announced him , retired with a private wink . 
The lower story of the house was occupied by a wealthy tradesman , but Mr Montague had all the upper portion , and splendid lodging it was . 
The only guests besides Jonas were the doctor , the resident Director , and two other gentlemen , whom Montague presented in due form . 
'My dear friend , I am delighted to see you . 
Jobling you know , I believe ? 'I think so , said the doctor pleasantly , as he stepped out of the circle to shake hands . 
'I trust I have the honour . 
My dear sir , I see you well . 
Quite well ? THAT'S well ! 'Mr Wolf , said Montague , as soon as the doctor would allow him to introduce the two others , 'Mr Chuzzlewit . 
Mr Pip , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
Both gentlemen were exceedingly happy to have the honour of making Mr Chuzzlewit's acquaintance . 
The doctor drew Jonas a little apart , and whispered behind his hand 'Men of the world , my dear sir men of the world . 
'And what did Lord Nobley say to that ? 'Why , returned Pip , with an oath . 
'He didn't know what to say . 
Same , sir , if he wasn't as mute as a poker . 
But you know what a good fellow Nobley is ! 'The best fellow in the world ! cried Wolf . 
'And he'd have done it ! 'Not a doubt of it , said Wolf . 
'But you were going to tell us 'Oh , yes ! cried Pip . 
At first he was dumb sewn up , dead , sir but after a minute he said to the Duke , Here's Pip . 
Damme ! said the Duke , I appeal to Pip then . 
Bandy or not bandy ? Speak out ! Bandy , your Grace , by the Lord Harry ! said I. Ha , ha ! laughed the Duke . 
To be sure she is . 
I wish I may die if you're not a trump , Pip . 
Pop me down among your fashionable visitors whenever I'm in town , Pip . 
And so I do , to this day . 
The conclusion of this story gave immense satisfaction , which was in no degree lessened by the announcement of dinner . 
Jonas repaired to the dining room , along with his distinguished host , and took his seat at the board between that individual and his friend the doctor . 
The rest fell into their places like men who were well accustomed to the house and dinner was done full justice to , by all parties . 
The dishes , wines , and fruits were of the choicest kind . 
Mr Jonas was in the midst of a calculation of the value of this item alone , when his host disturbed him . 
'A glass of wine ? 'Oh ! said Jonas , who had had several glasses already . 
'As much of that as you like ! It's too good to refuse . 
'Well said , Mr Chuzzlewit ! cried Wolf . 
'Tom Gag , upon my soul ! said Pip . 
'Oh ! You needn't trouble your head about ME , he replied , 'Famous ! 'I thought it best not to have a party , said Tigg . 
'You feel that ? 'Why , what do you call this ? retorted Jonas . 
This is my common style . 
It was of no use having anything uncommon for you . 
You'd have seen through it . 
You'll have a party ? said Crimple . 
No , I won't , I said . 
he shall take us in the rough ! 'And pretty smooth , too , ecod ! said Jonas , glancing round the table . 
'This don't cost a trifle . 
'Why , to be candid with you , it does not , returned the other . 
'But I like this sort of thing . 
It's the way I spend my money . 
'Quite different , retorted Jonas . 
'Well , and you're right , said Tigg , with friendly candour . 
One of a Company must do it to hold the connection together but , as I take a pleasure in it , that's my department . 
You don't mind dining expensively at another man's expense , I hope ? 'Not a bit , said Jonas . 
'Then I hope you'll often dine with me ? 'Ah ! said Jonas , 'I don't mind . 
'And I'll never attempt to talk business to you over wine , I take my oath , said Tigg . 
'Oh deep , deep , deep of you this morning ! I must tell 'em that . 
They're the very men to enjoy it . 
These lucubrations being of what he called 'a warm complexion , were highly approved and all the company agreed that they were full of point . 
It's not only agreeable and nothing CAN be more agreeable but it's philosophically improving . 
The least of their stories had a colonel in it lords were as plentiful as oaths and even the Blood Royal ran in the muddy channel of their personal recollections . 
'Mr Chuzzlewit didn't know him , I'm afraid , said Wolf , in reference to a certain personage of illustrious descent , who had previously figured in a reminiscence . 
'But we must bring him into contact with this sort of fellows . 
'He was very fond of literature , observed Wolf . 
'Was he ? said Tigg . 
'Oh , yes he took my paper regularly for many years . 
Wolf , eh ? Sharp biter , Wolf . 
We must keep the Wolf from the door , as the proverb says . 
And being complimentary , I printed it . 
'But the Viscount's the boy ! cried Pip , who invented a new oath for the introduction of everything he said . 
'The Viscount's the boy ! He came into our place one night to take Her home rather slued , but not much and said , Where's Pip ? I want to see Pip . 
Produce Pip ! What's the row , my lord ? Shakspeare's an infernal humbug , Pip ! What's the good of Shakspeare , Pip ? I never read him . 
Why , in that respect they're all Miss Biffins to the audience , Pip . 
I'll tell you what it is . 
What the people call dramatic poetry is a collection of sermons . 
Do I go to the theatre to be lectured ? No , Pip . 
If I wanted that , I'd go to church . 
What's the legitimate object of the drama , Pip ? Human nature . 
What are legs ? Human nature . 
The conversation now becoming general , Mr Jonas's opinion was requested on this subject and as it was in full accordance with the sentiments of Mr Pip , that gentleman was extremely gratified . 
Indeed , both himself and Wolf had so much in common with Jonas , that they became very amicable and between their increasing friendship and the fumes of wine , Jonas grew talkative . 
had had their cue distinctly from the host , or took it from what they saw and heard , they acted their parts very well . 
of conversation rather highly spiced and strongly seasoned . 
When it flagged , Jonas took it up and showed considerable humour in appraising the furniture inquiring whether such an article was paid for what it had originally cost , and the like . 
In all of this , he was , as he considered , desperately hard on Montague , and very demonstrative of his own brilliant parts . 
Some Champagne Punch gave a new though temporary fillip to the entertainments of the evening . 
It being now almost three o'clock in the morning . 
'Is he hooked , do you think ? whispered Crimple , as himself and partner stood in a distant part of the room observing him as he lay . 
'Aye ! said Tigg , in the same tone . 
'With a strong iron , perhaps . 
Has Nadgett been here to night ? 'Yes . 
I went out to him . 
Hearing you had company , he went away . 
'Why did he do that ? 'He said he would come back early in the morning , before you were out of bed . 
'Tell them to be sure and send him up to my bedside . 
Hush ! Here's the boy ! Now Mr Bailey , take this gentleman home , and see him safely in . 
To obtain a foreknowledge of the bearer of this taper , Mr Bailey skipped back to the door again , and put his eye to the keyhole . 
It was the merry one herself . 
She set the light upon a bracket in the hall , and laid her hand upon her heart upon her eyes upon her burning head . 
'Aha ! said Mr Bailey , with an effort . 
But next moment he was sorry again , for he saw tears standing in her poor dim eyes . 
'Don't be frightened , said Bailey . 
'There ain't nothing the matter . 
I've brought home Mr Chuzzlewit . 
He's only a little swipey , you know . 
Mr Bailey reeled in his boots , to express intoxication . 
'Have you come from Mrs Todgers's ? asked Merry , trembling . 
'Todgers's , bless you ! No ! cried Mr Bailey . 
'I haven't got nothin , to do with Todgers's . 
I cut that connection long ago . 
He's been a dining with my governor at the west end . 
Didn't you know he was a coming to see us ? 'No , she said , faintly . 
'Oh yes ! We're heavy swells too , and so I tell you . 
Don't you come out , a catching cold in your head . 
'You go up first with the light , said Bailey to Mr Jonas , 'and we'll foller . 
When I've had a drop too much , I'm full of good natur myself . 
'There ! said Mr Bailey . 
'Ah ! cried Mr Bailey , squaring his arms with a sudden emotion . 
'What , you're wicious , are you ? Would you though ! You'd better not ! 'Pray , go away ! said Merry . 
'Bailey , my good boy , go home . 
Jonas ! she said timidly laying her hand upon his shoulder , and bending her head down over him . 
'Jonas ! 'Look at her ! cried Jonas , pushing her off with his extended arm . 
'Look here ! Look at her ! Here's a bargain for a man ! 'Dear Jonas ! 'Dear Devil ! he replied , with a fierce gesture . 
You wouldn't say it if you were sober . 
With affected gayety she gave Bailey a piece of money , and again implored him to be gone . 
Her entreaty was so earnest , that the boy had not the heart to stay there . 
But he stopped at the bottom of the stairs , and listened . 
'I wouldn't say it if I was sober ! retorted Jonas . 
Have I never said it when I was sober ? 'Often , indeed ! she answered through her tears . 
'Hark ye ! cried Jonas , stamping his foot upon the ground . 
'You made me bear your pretty humours once , and ecod I'll make you bear mine now . 
I always promised myself I would . 
I married you that I might . 
I'll know who's master , and who's slave ! 'Heaven knows I am obedient ! said the sobbing girl . 
'Much more so than I ever thought to be ! Jonas laughed in his drunken exultation . 
'What ! you're finding it out , are you ! Patience , and you will in time ! Griffins have claws , my girl . 
What else did I marry you for ? YOU , too ! he said , with coarse contempt . 
'Oho ! he said , 'you're deaf , are you ? You don't hear me , eh ? So much the better for you . 
I hate myself , for having , been fool enough to strap a pack upon my back for the pleasure of treading on it whenever I choose . 
Why , things have opened to me , now , so that I might marry almost where I liked . 
But I wouldn't I'd keep single . 
I ought to be single , among the friends I know . 
Instead of that , here I am , tied like a log to you . 
'Broad day , Jonas ! 'Broad day or black night , what do I care ! was the kind rejoinder . 
'The night passed quickly , too . 
I don't mind sitting up , at all . 
'Sit up for me again , if you dare ! growled Jonas . 
'I was reading , she proceeded , 'all night long . 
I began when you went out , and read till you came home again . 
The strangest story , Jonas ! And true , the book says . 
I'll tell it you to morrow . 
'True , was it ? said Jonas , doggedly . 
Not a word , she answered quickly . 
'That'll be a true story though , before long for all the book says nothing about it . 
It's a lying book , I see . 
A fit book for a lying reader . 
There was another interval of silence and the boy was stealing away , when he heard her footstep on the floor , and stopped . 
He answered with an imprecation , and Not with a blow ? Yes . 
Stern truth against the base souled villain with a blow . 
No angry cries no loud reproaches . 
Even her weeping and her sobs were stifled by her clinging round him . 
She only said , repeating it in agony of heart , how could he , could he , could he and lost utterance in tears . 
, Poll Sweedlepipe desisted from the contemplation of a favourite owl , and gave his young friend hearty welcome . 
'Why , you look smarter by day , said Poll , 'than you do by candle light . 
I never see such a tight young dasher . 
How's our fair friend , Sairah ? 'Oh , she's pretty well , said Poll . 
'There's the remains of a fine woman about Sairah , Poll , observed Mr Bailey , with genteel indifference . 
'Oh ! thought Poll , 'he's old . 
He must be very old ! 'Too much crumb , you know , said Mr Bailey 'too fat , Poll . 
But there's many worse at her time of life' 'The very owl's a opening his eyes ! thought Poll . 
'I don't wonder at it in a bird of his opinions . 
He happened to have been sharpening his razors , which were lying open in a row , while a huge strop dangled from the wall . 
Glancing at these preparations , Mr Bailey stroked his chin , and a thought appeared to occur to him . 
'Poll , he said , 'I ain't as neat as I could wish about the gills . 
Being here , I may as well have a shave , and get trimmed close . 
The barber stood aghast but Mr Bailey divested himself of his neck cloth , and sat down in the easy shaving chair with all the dignity and confidence in life . 
There was no resisting his manner . 
The evidence of sight and touch became as nothing . 
'Go WITH the grain , Poll , all round , please , said Mr Bailey , screwing up his face for the reception of the lather . 
'You may do wot you like with the bits of whisker . 
I don't care for 'em . 
At last he made a dash at Mr Bailey's cheek . 
Mr Bailey smiled through the suds in his satisfaction . 
'Gently over the stones , Poll . 
Go a tip toe over the pimples ! Poll Sweedlepipe obeyed , and scraped the lather off again with particular care . 
'Hallo ! he said , 'Sairah ! I needn't ask you how you've been this long time , for you're in full bloom . 
All a blowin and a growin ain't she , Polly ? 'Why , drat the Bragian boldness of that boy ! cried Mrs Gamp , though not displeased . 
Disinterested affection is always flattering . 
'Ah , dear ! moaned Mrs Gamp , sinking into the shaving chair , 'that there blessed Bull , Mr Sweedlepipe , has done his wery best to conker me . 
Of all the trying inwalieges in this walley of the shadder , that one beats 'em black and blue . 
'Talk of constitooshun ! Mrs Gamp observed . 
'A person's constitooshun need be made of bricks to stand it . 
Sairey , says Mrs Harris , sech is life . 
IS it likely , ma'am , I says , as she will fail this once ? Says Mrs Harris No , ma'am , not in the course of natur . 
But , she says , the tears a fillin in her eyes , you knows much betterer than me , with your experienge , how little puts us out . 
A Punch's show , she says , a chimbley sweep , a newfundlan dog , or a drunkin man a comin round the corner sharp may do it . 
'You're so full of zeal , you see ! said Poll . 
'Worrit myself ! cried Mrs Gamp , raising her hands and turning up her eyes . 
'You speak truth in that , sir , if you never speaks no more 'twixt this and when two Sundays jines together . 
I feels the sufferins of other people more than I feels my own , though no one mayn't suppoge it . 
'Into Har'fordshire , which is his native air . 
But native airs nor native graces neither , Mrs Gamp observed , 'won't bring HIM round . 
'So bad as that ? inquired the wistful barber . 
'Indeed ! Mrs Gamp shook her head mysteriously , and pursed up her lips . 
'There's fevers of the mind , she said , 'as well as body . 
You may take your slime drafts till you files into the air with efferwescence but you won't cure that . 
'Ah ! said the barber , opening his eyes , and putting on his raven aspect 'Lor ! 'No . 
You may make yourself as light as any gash balloon , said Mrs Gamp . 
'But talk , when you're wrong in your head and when you're in your sleep , of certain things and you'll be heavy in your mind . 
'Of what kind of things now ? inquired Poll , greedily biting his nails in his great interest . 
'I'm a goin down with my patient in the coach this arternoon , she proceeded . 
and then I'm a comin back and that's my trouble , Mr Sweedlepipes . 
Being now personally addressed by Mrs Gamp , he turned round , and mingled in the conversation . 
I was there last night . 
'Last night ! cried the barber . 
'Yes , Poll , reether so . 
You can call it this morning , if you like to be particular . 
'Who does that young Limb mean by hus ? said Mrs Gamp , with most impatient emphasis . 
'Me and my Governor , Sairah . 
He dined at our house . 
We wos very merry , Sairah . 
So much so , that I was obliged to see him home in a hackney coach at three o'clock in the morning . 
'And all things considered , said Mrs Gamp sharply , 'she might have know'd better than to go a tirin herself out , by doin' anythink of the sort . 
Did they seem pretty pleasant together , sir ? 'Oh , yes , answered Bailey , 'pleasant enough . 
'I'm glad on it , said Mrs Gamp , with a second sniff of significance . 
'They haven't been married so long , observed Poll , rubbing his hands , 'that they need be anything but pleasant yet awhile . 
'No , said Mrs Gamp , with a third significant signal . 
'Especially , pursued the barber , 'when the gentleman bears such a character as you gave him . 
'I speak as I find , Mr Sweedlepipes , said Mrs Gamp . 
'No , said Mrs Gamp , cutting him very short , 'I don't . 
The torters of the Imposition shouldn't make me own I did . 
All I says is , added the good woman , rising and folding her shawl about her , 'that the Bull's a waitin , and the precious moments is a flyin' fast . 
That young gentleman assenting , they all went out together . 
left her friends to entertain themselves in the yard , while she ascended to the sick room , where her fellow labourer Mrs Prig was dressing the invalid . 
He was so wasted , that it seemed as if his bones would rattle when they moved him . 
His cheeks were sunken , and his eyes unnaturally large . 
'And how are we by this time ? Mrs Gamp observed . 
'We looks a deal charminger than we are , then , returned Mrs Prig , a little chafed in her temper . 
'We got out of bed back'ards , I think , for we're as cross as two sticks . 
I never see sich a man . 
He wouldn't have been washed , if he'd had his own way . 
'She put the soap in my mouth , said the unfortunate patient feebly . 
'Couldn't you keep it shut then ? retorted Mrs Prig . 
'Instead of being grateful , Mrs Gamp observed , 'for all our little ways . 
Oh , fie for shame , sir , fie for shame ! Here Mrs Prig seized the patient by the chin , and began to rasp his unhappy head with a hair brush . 
'I suppose you don't like that , neither ! she observed , stopping to look at him . 
It was just possible that he didn't for the brush was a specimen of the hardest kind of instrument producible by modern art and his very eyelids were red with the friction . 
Mrs Prig was gratified to observe the correctness of her supposition , and said triumphantly 'she know'd as much . 
'I don't think it's right , said the poor weak invalid . 
'I feel as if I was in somebody else's clothes . 
I'm all on one side and you've made one of my legs shorter than the other . 
There's a bottle in my pocket too . 
What do you make me sit upon a bottle for ? 'Deuce take the man ! cried Mrs Gamp , drawing it forth . 
'If he ain't been and got my night bottle here . 
I made a little cupboard of his coat when it hung behind the door , and quite forgot it , Betsey . 
You'll find a ingun or two , and a little tea and sugar in his t'other pocket , my dear , if you'll just be good enough to take 'em out . 
Betsey produced the property in question , together with some other articles of general chandlery and Mrs Gamp transferred them to her own pocket , which was a species of nankeen pannier . 
'Up and dressed ! cried John , sitting down beside him . 
How do you feel ? 'Much better . 
You have had a hard bout of it . 
I have something very particular and strange to say to you something that has been a dreadful weight on my mind , through this long illness . 
Quick in all his motions , John was turning round to desire the women to leave the room when the sick man held him by the sleeve . 
May I tell it when I have ? May I write it , if I find that easier and better ? 'May you ! cried John . 
'Why , Lewsome , what is this ! 'Don't ask me what it is . 
Frightful to have helped in . 
Let me kiss your hand for all your goodness to me . 
'Oh bless you , no ! said Mrs Gamp . 
'He hates his nusses to this hour . 
They always does it , sir . 
His bony hands and haggard face impressed Poll wonderfully and he informed Mr Bailey in confidence , that he wouldn't have missed seeing him for a pound . 
Mr Bailey , who was of a different constitution , remarked that he would have stayed away for five shillings . 
'Wishin you lots of sickness , my darlin creetur , Mrs Gamp observed , 'and good places . 
'I don't care how soon it is , said Mrs Prig 'nor how many weeks it lasts . 
Mrs Gamp with a reply in a congenial spirit was backing to the coach , when she came in contact with a lady and gentleman who were passing along the footway . 
'Take care , take care here ! cried the gentleman . 
'Halloo ! My dear ! Why , it's Mrs Gamp ! 'What , Mr Mould ! exclaimed the nurse . 
'And Mrs Mould ! who would have thought as we should ever have a meetin' here , I'm sure ! 'Going out of town , Mrs Gamp ? cried Mould . 
'That's unusual , isn't it ? 'It IS unusual , sir , said Mrs Gamp . 
'But only for a day or two at most . 
The gent , she whispered , 'as I spoke about . 
'What , in the coach ! cried Mould . 
'The one you thought of recommending ? Very odd . 
My dear , this will interest you . 
The gentleman that Mrs Gamp thought likely to suit us is in the coach , my love . 
Mrs Mould was greatly interested . 
You can stand upon the door step , said Mould , 'and take a look at him . 
Ha ! There he is . 
Where's my glass ? Oh ! all right . 
Do you see him , my dear ? 'Quite plain , said Mrs Mould . 
'Upon my life , you know , this is a very singular circumstance , said Mould , quite delighted . 
'This is the sort of thing , my dear , I wouldn't have missed on any account . 
It's almost a little play , you know . 
Ah ! There he is ! To be sure . 
Looks poorly , Mrs M. , don't he ? Mrs Mould assented . 
'He's coming our way , perhaps , after all , said Mould . 
'Who knows ! I feel as if I ought to show him some little attention , really . 
He don't seem a stranger to me . 
I'm very much inclined to move my hat , my dear . 
'He's looking hard this way , said Mrs Mould . 
'Then I will ! cried Mould . 
'How d'ye do , sir ! I wish you good day . 
Ha ! He bows too . 
Mrs Gamp has the cards in her pocket , I have no doubt . 
This is very singular , my dear and very pleasant . 
I am not superstitious , but it really seems as if one was destined to pay him those little melancholy civilities which belong to our peculiar line of business . 
There can be no kind of objection to your kissing your hand to him , my dear . 
Poor fellow ! I am quite glad you did it , my love . 
Bye bye , Mrs Gamp ! waving his hand . 
'There he goes there he goes ! So he did for the coach rolled off as the words were spoken . 
Mr and Mrs Mould , in high good humour , went their merry way . 
like an architectural kitten , he had one impediment constantly opposed to him . 
She waged fierce war against her dear papa , she led her parent what is usually called , for want of a better figure of speech , the life of a dog . 
But never did that dog live , in kennel , stable yard , or house , whose life was half as hard as Mr Pecksniff's with his gentle child . 
The father and daughter were sitting at their breakfast . 
Tom had retired , and they were alone . 
Mr Pecksniff frowned at first but having cleared his brow , looked stealthily at his child . 
Her nose was very red indeed , and screwed up tight , with hostile preparation . 
'Oh ! 'tis too late , Pa , said his daughter , calmly 'to talk to me like this . 
I know what it means , and what its value is . 
'This is hard ! cried Mr Pecksniff , addressing his breakfast cup . 
'This is very hard ! She is my child . 
'To think that this discord should arise from such a cause ! oh dear , oh dear ! 'From such a cause indeed ! cried Cherry . 
'State the real cause , Pa , or I'll state it myself . 
Mind ! I will ! Perhaps the energy with which she said this was infectious . 
You have no decency you make no secret of your temper you have exposed yourself to Mr Chuzzlewit a hundred times . 
'Myself ! cried Cherry , with a bitter smile . 
'Oh indeed ! I don't mind that . 
'Me , too , then , said Mr Pecksniff . 
His daughter answered with a scornful laugh . 
'And since we have come to an explanation , Charity , said Mr Pecksniff , rolling his head portentously , 'let me tell you that I won't allow it . 
None of your nonsense , Miss ! I won't permit it to be done . 
I am not going to be crushed in everything , depend upon it . 
I've been more shamefully used than anybody ever was in this world , here she began to cry and sob , 'and may expect the worse treatment from you , I know . 
But I don't care for that . 
She was so very much astonished by this assault , that it really had the desired effect . 
'I'll do it again ! cried Mr Pecksniff , as he resumed his seat and fetched his breath , 'if you dare to talk in that loud manner . 
I wonder you have not more spirit . 
If Mr Jonas didn't care for you , how could you wish to have him ? 'I wish to have him ! exclaimed Cherry . 
I am not angry with HER , said Cherry looking much more angry than ever . 
I know the fate that's in store for her , with that Wretch . 
'Not an end , Pa , said Charity . 
'No , not an end . 
That's not the only point on which we're not agreed . 
I won't submit to it . 
It's better you should know that at once . 
No I won't submit to it indeed , Pa ! I am not quite a fool , and I am not blind . 
All I have got to say is , I won't submit to it . 
Whatever she meant , she shook Mr Pecksniff now for his lame attempt to seem composed was melancholy in the last degree . 
His anger changed to meekness , and his words were mild and fawning . 
A father asking pardon of his child , said Mr Pecksniff , 'is , I believe , a spectacle to soften the most rugged nature . 
But it didn't at all soften Miss Pecksniff perhaps because her nature was not rugged enough . 
On the contrary , she persisted in saying , over and over again , that she wasn't quite a fool , and wasn't blind , and wouldn't submit to it . 
'You labour under some mistake , my child ! said Mr Pecksniff . 
'but I will not ask you what it is I don't desire to know . 
'But I wish to be able to avoid it altogether , and consequently must beg you to provide me with a home . 
It is possible that Miss Pecksniff saw in Mrs Todgers's a vision of enthusiastic men , pining to fall in adoration at her feet . 
It is undoubtedly a fact that in the attentive ears of Mr Pecksniff , the proposition did not sound quite like the dismal knell of all his hopes . 
Never mind ! Even this remark , made more pathetic perhaps by his breaking down in the middle of it , had no effect upon Charity . 
She was grim , rigid , and inflexible . 
Miss Charity , who knew he had a secret pleasure in the contemplation of the proposed change , suppressed her own , and went on to negotiate the terms . 
Indeed , Miss Charity's idea was so agreeable to both , that it would have been strange if they had not come to an amicable agreement . 
He knew the purity of his own motives and when he had a motive worked at it as only a very good man can . 
Did he set before himself any strong and palpable motives for taking a second wife ? Yes and not one or two of them , but a combination of very many . 
Old Martin Chuzzlewit had gradually undergone an important change . 
Even upon the night when he made such an ill timed arrival at Mr Pecksniff's house , he was comparatively subdued and easy to deal with . 
This Mr Pecksniff attributed , at the time , to the effect his brother's death had had upon him . 
But from that hour his character seemed to have modified by regular degrees , and to have softened down into a dull indifference for almost every one but Mr Pecksniff . 
His looks were much the same as ever , but his mind was singularly altered . 
It was not that this or that passion stood out in brighter or in dimmer hues but that the colour of the whole man was faded . 
As one trait disappeared , no other trait sprung up to take its place . 
He was less keen of sight was deaf sometimes took little notice of what passed before him and would be profoundly taciturn for days together . 
The process of this alteration was so easy that almost as soon as it began to be observed it was complete . 
But Mr Pecksniff saw it first , and having Anthony Chuzzlewit fresh in his recollection , saw in his brother Martin the same process of decay . 
To a gentleman of Mr Pecksniff's tenderness , this was a very mournful sight . 
He could not but foresee the probability of his respected relative being made the victim of designing persons , and of his riches falling into worthless hands . 
Let the old man say what he would , Mr Pecksniff knew he had a strong affection for her . 
He knew that he showed it in a thousand little ways that he liked to have her near him , and was never quite at ease when she was absent long . 
That he had ever really sworn to leave her nothing in his will , Mr Pecksniff greatly doubted . 
That even if he had , there were many ways by which he could evade the oath and satisfy his conscience , Mr Pecksniff knew . 
That her unprotected state was no light burden on the old man's mind , he also knew , for Mr Chuzzlewit had plainly told him so . 
His manner towards the sex was remarkable for its insinuating character . 
Before any thought of matrimony was in his mind , he had bestowed on Mary many little tokens of his spiritual admiration . 
They had been indignantly received , but that was nothing . 
So Interest and Inclination made a pair , and drew the curricle of Mr Pecksniff's plan . 
As to being refused by Mary , Mr Pecksniff was quite satisfied that in her position she could never hold out if he and Mr Chuzzlewit were both against her . 
'Ah ! said Mr Pecksniff , 'one of his deaf days , I see . 
Could I mean any one else , my dear sir ? 'You might have meant Mary , said the old man . 
I might speak of her as a dear , dear friend , I hope ? observed Mr Pecksniff . 
'I hope so , returned old Martin . 
'I think she deserves it . 
'Think ! cried Pecksniff , 'think , Mr Chuzzlewit ! 'You are speaking , I know , returned Martin , 'but I don't catch what you say . 
Speak up ! 'He's getting deafer than a flint , said Pecksniff . 
'I was saying , my dear sir , that I am afraid I must make up my mind to part with Cherry . 
'What has SHE been doing ? asked the old man . 
'He puts the most ridiculous questions I ever heard ! muttered Mr Pecksniff . 
'He's a child to day . 
After which he added , in a mild roar 'She hasn't been doing anything , my dear friend . 
'What are you going to part with her for ? demanded Martin . 
'She hasn't her health by any means , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'She misses her sister , my dear sir they doted on each other from the cradle . 
And I think of giving her a run in London for a change . 
A good long run , sir , if I find she likes it . 
'Quite right , cried Martin . 
'I am glad to hear you say so . 
I hope you mean to bear me company in this dull part , while she's away ? said Mr Pecksniff . 
'I have no intention of removing from it , was Martin's answer . 
, is hardly a home for Miss Graham . 
Martin mused a moment and then said , as he shook him by the hand 'No . 
You're quite right it is not . 
'The very sight of skittles , Mr Pecksniff eloquently pursued , 'is far from being congenial to a delicate mind . 
'It's an amusement of the vulgar , said old Martin , 'certainly . 
'Of the very vulgar , Mr Pecksniff answered . 
'Then why not bring Miss Graham here , sir ? Here is the house . 
Here am I alone in it , for Thomas Pinch I do not count as any one . 
Our lovely friend shall occupy my daughter's chamber you shall choose your own we shall not quarrel , I hope ! 'We are not likely to do that , said Martin . 
Mr Pecksniff pressed his hand . 
'We understand each other , my dear sir , I see ! I can wind him , he thought , with exultation , 'round my little finger . 
'You leave the recompense to me ? said the old man , after a minute's silence . 
'Oh ! do not speak of recompense ! cried Pecksniff . 
'I say , repeated Martin , with a glimmer of his old obstinacy , 'you leave the recompense to me . 
Do you ? 'Since you desire it , my good sir . 
'I always desire it , said the old man . 
'You know I always desire it . 
I wish to pay as I go , even when I buy of you . 
Not that I do not leave a balance to be settled one day , Pecksniff . 
The architect was too much overcome to speak . 
He tried to drop a tear upon his patron's hand , but couldn't find one in his dry distillery . 
'May that day be very distant ! was his pious exclamation . 
'Ah , sir ! If I could say how deep an interest I have in you and yours ! I allude to our beautiful young friend . 
She need have some one interested in her . 
I did her wrong to train her as I did . 
Orphan though she was , she would have found some one to protect her whom she might have loved again . 
When she was a child , I pleased myself with the thought that in gratifying my whim of placing her between me and false hearted knaves , I had done her a kindness . 
Now she is a woman , I have no such comfort . 
She has no protector but herself . 
I have put her at such odds with the world , that any dog may bark or fawn upon her at his pleasure . 
Indeed she stands in need of delicate consideration . 
Yes indeed she does ! 'If her position could be altered and defined , sir ? Mr Pecksniff hinted . 
'How can that be done ? Should I make a seamstress of her , or a governess ? 'Heaven forbid ! said Mr Pecksniff . 
'My dear sir , there are other ways . 
But I am much excited and embarrassed at present , and would rather not pursue the subject . 
I scarcely know what I mean . 
Permit me to resume it at another time . 
'You are not unwell ? asked Martin anxiously . 
'No , no ! cried Pecksniff . 
Permit me to resume it at another time . 
Bless you ! Old Martin blessed him in return , and squeezed his hand . 
Mr Pecksniff returned the gesture . 
'Why , the time was , said Mr Pecksniff 'and not long ago , when he wouldn't look at me ! How soothing is this change . 
With the happiness of this conviction painted on his face , the architect went forth upon his morning walk . 
The summer weather in his bosom was reflected in the breast of Nature . 
The birds , so many Pecksniff consciences , sang gayly upon every branch and Mr Pecksniff paid HIS homage to the day by ruminating on his projects as he walked along . 
Chancing to trip , in his abstraction , over the spreading root of an old tree , he raised his pious eyes to take a survey of the ground before him . 
It startled him to see the embodied image of his thoughts not far ahead . 
Hearing notes behind her , not belonging to the songsters of the grove , she looked round . 
Mr Pecksniff kissed his hand , and was at her side immediately . 
'Communing with nature ? said Mr Pecksniff . 
'So am I. She said the morning was so beautiful that she had walked further than she intended , and would return . 
Mr Pecksniff said it was exactly his case , and he would return with her . 
'Take my arm , sweet girl , said Mr Pecksniff . 
Mary declined it , and walked so very fast that he remonstrated . 
'You were loitering when I came upon you , Mr Pecksniff said . 
Release me , Mr Pecksniff . 
Your touch is disagreeable to me . 
His touch ! What ? That chaste patriarchal touch which Mrs Todgers surely a discreet lady had endured , not only without complaint , but with apparent satisfaction ! This was positively wrong . 
Mr Pecksniff was sorry to hear her say it . 
It cuts me to the soul , said Mr Pecksniff 'but I cannot quarrel with you , Mary . 
She tried to say she was sorry to hear it , but burst into tears . 
I am very glad we met . 
I am able now to ease my bosom of a heavy load , and speak to you in confidence . 
'I love you , said Mr Pecksniff , 'my gentle life , with a devotion which is quite surprising , even to myself . 
I did suppose that the sensation was buried in the silent tomb of a lady , only second to you in qualities of the mind and form but I find I am mistaken . 
One of them , as you know , is married . 
The other , by her own desire , but with a view , I will confess why not ? to my altering my condition , is about to leave her father's house . 
I have a character , I hope . 
People are pleased to speak well of me , I think . 
My person and manner are not absolutely those of a monster , I trust . 
'Blessed in each other , and in the society of our venerable friend , my darling , said Mr Pecksniff , 'we shall be happy . 
When he is wafted to a haven of rest , we will console each other . 
My pretty primrose , what do you say ? 'It is possible , Mary answered , in a hurried manner , 'that I ought to feel grateful for this mark of your confidence . 
I cannot say that I do , but I am willing to suppose you may deserve my thanks . 
Take them and pray leave me , Mr Pecksniff . 
The good man smiled a greasy smile and drew her closer to him . 
'Pray , pray release me , Mr Pecksniff . 
I cannot listen to your proposal . 
There are many to whom it may be acceptable , but it is not so to me . 
I hold you in the deepest abhorrence . 
I know your real nature and despise it . 
'No , no , said Mr Pecksniff , sweetly . 
Mr Pecksniff raised his heavy eyelids languidly , and let them fall again . 
'Will nothing move you , sir ? cried Mary . 
'My dear , observed Mr Pecksniff , with a placid leer , 'a habit of self examination , and the practice of shall I say of virtue ? 'Of hypocrisy , said Mary . 
It is a curious fact , but it is difficult , do you know , for any one to ruffle me . 
'Come , come , said that good gentleman , 'a word or two will set this matter right , and establish a pleasant understanding between us . 
I am not angry , my love . 
'YOU angry ! 'No , said Mr Pecksniff , 'I am not . 
There was a beating heart beneath his hand that told another story though . 
'I am sure you are not , said Mr Pecksniff 'and I will tell you why . 
There are two Martin Chuzzlewits , my dear and your carrying your anger to one might have a serious effect who knows ! upon the other . 
You wouldn't wish to hurt him , would you ? She trembled violently , and looked at him with such a proud disdain that he turned his eyes away . 
No doubt lest he should be offended with her in spite of his better self . 
'A passive quarrel , my love , said Mr Pecksniff , 'may be changed into an active one , remember . 
It would be sad to blight even a disinherited young man in his already blighted prospects but how easy to do it . 
Ah , how easy ! HAVE I influence with our venerable friend , do you think ? Well , perhaps I have . 
He raised his eyes to hers and nodded with an air of banter that was charming . 
'No , he continued , thoughtfully . 
'Upon the whole , my sweet , if I were you I'd keep my secret to myself . 
But whether he was surprised or not surprised , the consequence of your imparting it might be the same . 
Martin junior might suffer severely . 
I'd have compassion on Martin junior , do you know ? said Mr Pecksniff , with a persuasive smile . 
He don't deserve it , but I would . 
She wept so bitterly now , and was so much distressed , that he thought it prudent to unclasp her waist , and hold her only by the hand . 
You will consent , my love you will consent , I know . 
Whatever you may think you will . 
HAVE I any influence with our venerable friend ? Well ! Perhaps I have . 
The outlet from the wood in which these tender passages occurred , was close to Mr Pecksniff's house . 
Gallantry in its true sense is supposed to ennoble and dignify a man and love has shed refinements on innumerable Cymons . 
But Mr Pecksniff perhaps because to one of his exalted nature these were mere grossnesses certainly did not appear to any unusual advantage , now that he was left alone . 
On the contrary , he seemed to be shrunk and reduced to be trying to hide himself within himself and to be wretched at not having the power to do it . 
His shoes looked too large his sleeve looked too long his hair looked too limp his features looked too mean his exposed throat looked as if a halter would have done it good . 
For a minute or two , in fact , he was hot , and pale , and mean , and shy , and slinking , and consequently not at all Pecksniffian . 
But after that , he recovered himself , and went home with as beneficent an air as if he had been the High Priest of the summer weather . 
'I have arranged to go , Papa , said Charity , 'to morrow . 
'So soon , my child ! 'I can't go too soon , said Charity , 'under the circumstances . 
I have written to Mrs Todgers to propose an arrangement , and have requested her to meet me at the coach , at all events . 
You'll be quite your own master now , Mr Pinch ! Mr Pecksniff had just gone out of the room , and Tom had just come into it . 
'My own master ! repeated Tom . 
'Yes , you'll have nobody to interfere with you , said Charity . 
'At least I hope you won't . 
Hem ! It's a changing world . 
'What ! are YOU going to be married , Miss Pecksniff ? asked Tom in great surprise . 
'Not exactly , faltered Cherry . 
'I haven't made up my mind to be . 
I believe I could be , if I chose , Mr Pinch . 
'Of course you could ! said Tom . 
And he said it in perfect good faith . 
He believed it from the bottom of his heart . 
'No , said Cherry , 'I am not going to be married . 
Nobody is , that I know of . 
Hem ! But I am not going to live with Papa . 
I have my reasons , but it's all a secret . 
I shall always feel very kindly towards you , I assure you , for the boldness you showed that night . 
He had scarcely reconciled himself to that when here was Charity about to leave them . 
She had grown up , as it were , under Tom's eye . 
The sisters were a part of Pecksniff , and a part of Tom items in Pecksniff's goodness , and in Tom's service . 
He couldn't bear it not two hours' sleep had Tom that night , through dwelling in his bed upon these dreadful changes . 
With the church , so often mentioned heretofore , in which Tom Pinch played the organ for nothing . 
One sultry afternoon , about a week after Miss Charity's departure for London , Mr Pecksniff being out walking by himself , took it into his head to stray into the churchyard . 
, but would have blown away for him till he was black in the face . 
Mr Pecksniff had no objection to music not the least . 
He was tolerant of everything he often said so . 
He considered it a vagabond kind of trifling , in general , just suited to Tom's capacity . 
So whenever it was impossible to devise any other means of taking the value of Tom's wages out of him , Mr Pecksniff gave him leave to cultivate this instrument . 
For which mark of his consideration Tom was very grateful . 
The afternoon was remarkably warm , and Mr Pecksniff had been strolling a long way . 
The church had an inviting air of coolness . 
The old oak roof supported by cross beams , the hoary walls , the marble tablets , and the cracked stone pavement , were refreshing to look at . 
There were leaves of ivy tapping gently at the opposite windows and the sun poured in through only one leaving the body of the church in tempting shade . 
Mr Pecksniff's seat was in the corner a remarkably comfortable corner where his very large Prayer Book was at that minute making the most of its quarto self upon the desk . 
He determined to go in and rest . 
It is an unaccountable circumstance that he should have felt drowsy there , where the force of association might surely have been enough to keep him wide awake but he did . 
He had not been in the snug little corner five minutes before he began to nod . 
He had not recovered himself one minute before he began to nod again . 
In the very act of opening his eyes indolently , he nodded again . 
In the very act of shutting them , he nodded again . 
So he fell out of one nod into another until at last he ceased to nod at all , and was as fast as the church itself . 
After a while he began to have at intervals the same dreamy impressions of voices and awakening to an indolent curiosity upon the subject , opened his eyes . 
He roused himself , and listened . 
Before he had listened half a dozen seconds , he became as broad awake as ever he had been in all his life . 
With eyes , and ears , and mouth , wide open , he moved himself a very little with the utmost caution , and gathering the curtain in his hand , peeped out . 
He had recognized their voices , and already knew the topic they discussed . 
Listened with such concentrated eagerness , that his very hair and shirt collar stood bristling up to help him . 
'No letters have ever reached me , except that one from New York . 
But don't be uneasy on that account , for it's very likely they have gone away to some far off place , where the posts are neither regular nor frequent . 
He said in that very letter that it might be so , even in that city to which they thought of travelling Eden , you know . 
'It is a great weight upon my mind , said Mary . 
'Oh , but you mustn't let it be , said Tom . 
I have often wished to say this to you , Tom continued with an embarrassment that became him very well , 'but you have never given me an opportunity . 
'I have sometimes been almost afraid , said Mary , 'that you might suppose I hesitated to confide in you , Mr Pinch . 
'No , Tom stammered , 'I I am not aware that I ever supposed that . 
I am sure that if I have , I have checked the thought directly , as an injustice to you . 
At other times I have fancied that your kindness prompted you to keep aloof from me . 
If such an idea has ever presented itself to you , faltered Tom , 'pray dismiss it . 
I am easily made happy and I shall live contented here long after you and Martin have forgotten me . 
'Dear Mr Pinch ! said Mary , giving him her hand 'I cannot tell you how your kindness moves me . 
I have never wronged you by the lightest doubt , and have never for an instant ceased to feel that you were all much more than all that Martin found you . 
Without the silent care and friendship I have experienced from you , my life here would have been unhappy . 
But you have been a good angel to me filling me with gratitude of heart , hope , and courage . 
why you have been so very silent about Martin . 
'Because I have been afraid , said Mary , 'of injuring you . 
'Of injuring me ! cried Tom . 
'Of doing you an injury with your employer . 
The gentleman in question dived . 
'With Pecksniff ! rejoined Tom , with cheerful confidence . 
'Oh dear , he'd never think of us ! He's the best of men . 
The more at ease you were , the happier he would be . 
Oh dear , you needn't be afraid of Pecksniff . 
He is not a spy . 
Mr Pecksniff sat down upon a hassock , and listening more attentively than ever , smiled . 
It is one of the most extraordinary circumstances that ever came within my knowledge , but it is so . 
And John is not a solitary case , for every pupil we have had in my time has gone away with the same inveterate hatred of him . 
There was Mark Tapley , too , quite in another station of life , said Tom 'the mockery he used to make of Pecksniff when he was at the Dragon was shocking . 
Martin too Martin was worse than any of 'em . 
He prepared you to dislike Pecksniff , of course . 
So you came with a prejudice , you know , Miss Graham , and are not a fair witness . 
Tom triumphed very much in this discovery , and rubbed his hands with great satisfaction . 
'Mr Pinch , said Mary , 'you mistake him . 
'No , no ! cried Tom . 
She was sitting on a bench beside the door with her hands before her face and Tom was bending over her . 
'What is the matter ? cried Tom . 
'Have I said anything to hurt you ? Has any one said anything to hurt you ? Don't cry . 
Pray tell me what it is . 
I cannot bear to see you so distressed . 
Mercy on us , I never was so surprised and grieved in all my life ! Mr Pecksniff kept his eye in the same place . 
He could have moved it now for nothing short of a gimlet or a red hot wire . 
I came here purposely to tell you , but I think I should have wanted courage if you had not chanced to lead me so directly to the object of my coming . 
Tom gazed at her steadfastly , and seemed to say , 'What else ? But he said not a word . 
'That person whom you think the best of men , said Mary , looking up , and speaking with a quivering lip and flashing eye . 
'Lord bless me ! muttered Tom , staggering back . 
That person whom I think the best of men ! You mean Pecksniff , of course . 
Yes , I see you mean Pecksniff . 
Good gracious me , don't speak without authority . 
What has he done ? If he is not the best of men , what is he ? 'The worst . 
The falsest , craftiest , meanest , cruellest , most sordid , most shameless , said the trembling girl trembling with her indignation . 
Tom sat down on a seat , and clasped his hands . 
'Whoever he may be , he is a scoundrel . 
Any sight of distress was sure to move the tenderness of Tom , but this especially . 
Tears and sobs from her were arrows in his heart . 
He tried to comfort her sat down beside her expended all his store of homely eloquence and spoke in words of praise and hope of Martin . 
Aye , though he loved her from his soul with such a self denying love as woman seldom wins he spoke from first to last of Martin . 
Not the wealth of the rich Indies would have tempted Tom to shirk one mention of her lover's name . 
And now the full agitation and misery of the disclosure came rushing upon Tom indeed . 
The star of his whole life from boyhood had become , in a moment , putrid vapour . 
It was not that Pecksniff , Tom's Pecksniff , had ceased to exist , but that he never had existed . 
In his death Tom would have had the comfort of remembering what he used to be , but in this discovery , he had the anguish of recollecting what he never was . 
For , as Tom's blindness in this matter had been total and not partial , so was his restored sight . 
Legions of Titans couldn't have got him out of the mud and serve him right ! But it was not he who suffered it was Tom . 
His compass was broken , his chart destroyed , his chronometer had stopped , his masts were gone by the board his anchor was adrift , ten thousand leagues away . 
Mr Pecksniff watched him with a lively interest , for he divined the purpose of Tom's ruminations , and was curious to see how he conducted himself . 
But their minstrelsy was changed , their music gone and sounding one long melancholy chord , Tom drooped his head upon his hands and gave it up as hopeless . 
Even when he had left the churchyard , Mr Pecksniff still remained shut up not being at all secure but that in his restless state of mind Tom might come wandering back . 
Seeing that his hair was rumpled , he took the liberty of borrowing the canonical brush and arranging it . 
He soon made up his mind , if it had ever been in doubt and putting back the bottle and biscuits , opened the casement . 
He got out into the churchyard without any difficulty shut the window after him and walked straight home . 
'Is Mr Pinch indoors ? asked Mr Pecksniff of his serving maid . 
'Just come in , sir . 
'Just come in , eh ? repeated Mr Pecksniff , cheerfully . 
'And gone upstairs , I suppose ? 'Yes sir . 
Shall I call him , sir ? 'No , said Mr Pecksniff , 'no . 
You needn't call him , Jane . 
How are your relations , Jane ? 'Pretty well , I thank you , sir . 
'I am glad to hear it . 
Let them know I asked about them , Jane . 
Is Mr Chuzzlewit in the way , Jane ? 'Yes , sir . 
He's in the parlour , reading . 
'He's in the parlour , reading , is he , Jane ? said Mr Pecksniff . 
Then I think I'll go and see him , Jane . 
, he became less cheerful . 
He was not angry , he was not vindictive , he was not cross , he was not moody , but he was grieved he was sorely grieved . 
'What is the matter ? asked old Martin . 
'Pecksniff , what ails you , man ? 'I am sorry to interrupt you , my dear sir , and I am still more sorry for the cause . 
My good , my worthy friend , I am deceived . 
'You are deceived ! 'Ah ! cried Mr Pecksniff , in an agony , 'deceived in the tenderest point . 
Cruelly deceived in that quarter , sir , in which I placed the most unbounded confidence . 
Deceived , Mr Chuzzlewit , by Thomas Pinch . 
'Oh ! bad , bad , bad ! said Martin , laying down his book . 
'Very bad ! I hope not . 
Are you certain ? 'Certain , my good sir ! My eyes and ears are witnesses . 
I wouldn't have believed it otherwise . 
I wouldn't have believed it , Mr Chuzzlewit , if a Fiery Serpent had proclaimed it from the top of Salisbury Cathedral . 
I would have said , cried Mr Pecksniff , 'that the Serpent lied . 
Such was my faith in Thomas Pinch , that I would have cast the falsehood back into the Serpent's teeth , and would have taken Thomas to my heart . 
But I am not a Serpent , sir , myself , I grieve to say , and no excuse or hope is left me . 
Martin was greatly disturbed to see him so much agitated , and to hear such unexpected news . 
He begged him to compose himself , and asked upon what subject Mr Pinch's treachery had been developed . 
'That is almost the worst of all , sir , Mr Pecksniff answered . 
'on a subject nearly concerning YOU . 
'I am not so strong as I was . 
You terrify me , Pecksniff ! 'Cheer up , my noble sir , said Mr Pecksniff , taking courage , 'and we will do what is required of us . 
You shall know all , sir , and shall be righted . 
But first excuse me , sir , excuse me . 
I have a duty to discharge , which I owe to society . 
He rang the bell , and Jane appeared . 
'Send Mr Pinch here , if you please , Jane . 
Constrained and altered in his manner , downcast and dejected , visibly confused not liking to look Pecksniff in the face . 
Will you do me the favour to go and secure it then bring the keys of the sacred edifice to me ! 'The vestry window , sir ? cried Tom . 
'You understand me , Mr Pinch , I think , returned his patron . 
'Yes , Mr Pinch , the vestry window . 
Do me the favour to secure that vestry window , Mr Pinch , and then come back to me . 
No physiognomist that ever dwelt on earth could have construed Tom's face when he heard these words . 
Wonder was in it , and a mild look of reproach , but certainly no fear or guilt , although a host of strong emotions struggled to display themselves . 
He bowed , and without saying one word , good or bad , withdrew . 
When Tom came back , he found old Martin sitting by the window , and Mr Pecksniff in an imposing attitude at the table . 
of gold and silver , and odd pence . 
Tom saw , at a glance , that it was his own salary for the current quarter . 
'Have you fastened the vestry window , Mr Pinch ? said Pecksniff . 
Put down the keys if you please , Mr Pinch . 
Tom placed them on the table . 
, and looked hard at it as he laid it down . 
It had been an old , old friend of Tom's a kind companion to him , many and many a day . 
'Mr Pinch , said Pecksniff , taking up his handkerchief , as if he felt that he should want it soon , 'I will not dwell upon the past . 
I will spare you , and I will spare myself , that pain at least . 
Tom's was not a very bright eye , but it was a very expressive one when he looked at Mr Pecksniff , and said 'Thank you , sir . 
I am very glad you will not refer to the past . 
'The present is enough , said Mr Pecksniff , dropping a penny , 'and the sooner THAT is past , the better . 
Mr Pinch , I will not dismiss you without a word of explanation . 
Therefore I will say to you , what I have already said to Mr Chuzzlewit . 
Tom glanced at the old gentleman , who nodded now and then as approving of Mr Pecksniff's sentences and sentiments , but interposed between them in no other way . 
Tom looked at him steadily . 
'Do you deny it , sir ? asked Mr Pecksniff , dropping one pound two and fourpence , and making a great business of picking it up again . 
'No , sir , replied Tom . 
'You do not , said Mr Pecksniff , glancing at the old gentleman . 
'Oblige me by counting this money , Mr Pinch , and putting your name to this receipt . 
You do not ? No , Tom did not . 
He scorned to deny it . 
He saw that Mr Pecksniff having overheard his own disgrace , cared not a jot for sinking lower yet in his contempt . 
He saw that he had devised this fiction as the readiest means of getting rid of him at once , but that it must end in that any way . 
Deny it ! No. 'You find the amount correct , do you , Mr Pinch ? said Pecksniff . 
'Quite correct , sir , answered Tom . 
'A person is waiting in the kitchen , said Mr Pecksniff , 'to carry your luggage wherever you please . 
We part , Mr Pinch , at once , and are strangers from this time . 
Something without a name compassion , sorrow , old tenderness , mistaken gratitude , habit none of these , and yet all of them smote upon Tom's gentle heart at parting . 
'I will not say , cried Mr Pecksniff , shedding tears , 'what a blow this is . 
I will not say how much it tries me how it works upon my nature how it grates upon my feelings . 
I do not care for that . 
I can endure as well as another man . 
, is , that this deception may not alter my ideas of humanity that it may not impair my freshness , or contract , if I may use the expression , my Pinions . 
I hope it will not I don't think it will . 
'Thank you , Mr Pinch , said Pecksniff . 
'I am not aware that I did . 
'This is your double eye glass , I believe ? said Tom . 
'Oh ! cried Pecksniff , with some degree of confusion . 
'I am obliged to you . 
Put it down , if you please . 
'I found it , said Tom , slowly 'when I went to bolt the vestry window in the pew . 
Mr Pecksniff had taken it off when he was bobbing up and down , lest it should strike against the panelling and had forgotten it . 
Looking into it he found the glass . 
'I am glad he's gone , said Martin , drawing a long breath when Tom had left the room . 
'It IS a relief , assented Mr Pecksniff . 
'It is a great relief . 
put them on the top of his books and went into the workroom for his case of instruments . 
They had grown older and shabbier in company . 
Pupils had served their time seasons had come and gone . 
Tom and the worn out stool had held together through it all . 
That part of the room was traditionally called 'Tom's Corner . 
It had been assigned to him at first because of its being situated in a strong draught , and a great way from the fire and he had occupied it ever since . 
There were portraits of him on the walls , with all his weak points monstrously portrayed . 
Diabolical sentiments , foreign to his character , were represented as issuing from his mouth in fat balloons . 
Under less uncommon circumstances , it would have cut Tom to the heart to leave these things and think that he saw them for the last time but it didn't now . 
There was no Pecksniff there never had been a Pecksniff and all his other griefs were swallowed up in that . 
Early on summer mornings , and by the light of private candle ends on winter nights , he had read himself half blind in this same room . 
He had tried in this same room to learn the fiddle under the bedclothes , but yielding to objections from the other pupils , had reluctantly abandoned the design . 
as though he were aware of what had happened , and wished him to perceive it made no difference to HIM . 
It was clumsily done he was a mere waterer of horses but Tom liked the man for it , and felt it more than going away . 
Tom took the carpet bag , and went downstairs along with him . 
At the outer door stood Jane , crying with all her might and on the steps was Mrs Lupin , sobbing bitterly , and putting out her hand for Tom to shake . 
'You're coming to the Dragon , Mr Pinch ? 'No , said Tom , 'no . 
I shall walk to Salisbury to night . 
For goodness' sake , don't make me so unhappy , Mrs Lupin . 
'But you'll come to the Dragon , Mr Pinch . 
If it's only for tonight . 
To see me , you know not as a traveller . 
'God bless my soul ! said Tom , wiping his eyes . 
'The kindness of people is enough to break one's heart ! I mean to go to Salisbury to night , my dear good creature . 
If you'll take care of my box for me till I write for it , I shall consider it the greatest kindness you can do me . 
'I wish , cried Mrs Lupin , 'there were twenty boxes , Mr Pinch , that I might have 'em all . 
On which , the best of Tom's supporters said he must have done some dreadful deed , or such a man as Mr Pecksniff never could have felt like that . 
, he would have said something , but when he didn't , Mr Pinch must have shocked him dreadfully . 
'Why , deary Mr Pinch ! oh , deary sir ! cried the tollman's wife . 
'What an unlikely time for you to be a going this way with a bag ! 'I am going to Salisbury , said Tom . 
'Why , goodness , where's the gig , then ? cried the tollman's wife , looking down the road , as if she thought Tom might have been upset without observing it . 
'I haven't got it , said Tom . 
'I he couldn't evade it he felt she would have him in the next question , if he got over this one . 
'I have left Mr Pecksniff . 
'Left Mr Pecksniff ! cried the tollman . 
'Yes , said Tom , 'left him . 
The tollman looked at his wife , uncertain whether to ask her if she had anything to suggest , or to order her to mind the children . 
Astonishment making him surly , he preferred the latter , and sent her into the toll house with a flea in her ear . 
'You left Mr Pecksniff ! cried the tollman , folding his arms , and spreading his legs . 
'I should as soon have thought of his head leaving him . 
'Aye ! said Tom , 'so should I , yesterday . 
Good night ! If a heavy drove of oxen hadn't come by immediately , the tollman would have gone down to the village straight , to inquire into it . 
As things turned out , he smoked another pipe , and took his wife into his confidence . 
But their united sagacity could make nothing of it , and they went to bed metaphorically in the dark . 
After every one of these disclosures , the tollman plunged into his house again , and was seen no more , while the other side went on in great amazement . 
But this was long after Tom was abed , and Tom was now with his face towards Salisbury , doing his best to get there . 
The evening was beautiful at first , but it became cloudy and dull at sunset , and the rain fell heavily soon afterwards . 
For ten long miles he plodded on , wet through , until at last the lights appeared , and he came into the welcome precincts of the city . 
He went to the inn where he had waited for Martin , and briefly answering their inquiries after Mr Pecksniff , ordered a bed . 
It was a great relief when the chambermaid came in , and said the bed was ready . 
stared roundly in , at the foot of the bed . 
These were trifles in themselves , but they added to the strangeness of the place , and did not induce Tom to forget his new position . 
Pecksniff had gone out of the world had never been in it and it was as much as Tom could do to say his prayers without him . 
But he felt happier afterwards , and went to sleep , and dreamed about him as he Never Was . 
M. Todgers looked a little worn by cares of gravy and other such solicitudes arising out of her establishment , but displayed her usual earnestness and warmth of manner . 
that he contemplated the introduction of a princely ma and repeated the sentiment that she wasn't blind , and wasn't quite a fool , and wouldn't bear it . 
Mrs Todgers was more shocked by the intelligence than any one could have expected . 
She said there was no truth in man and that the warmer he expressed himself , as a general principle , the falser and more treacherous he was . 
'Your real darling sister , I have not seen her more than once since her marriage , said Mrs Todgers , 'and then I thought her looking poorly . 
My sweet Miss Pecksniff , I always thought that you was to be the lady ? 'Oh dear no ! cried Cherry , shaking her head . 
'Oh no , Mrs Todgers . 
No ! not for any consideration he could offer . 
'I dare say you are right , said Mrs Todgers with a sigh . 
'I feared it all along . 
But the misery we have had from that match , here among ourselves , in this house , my dear Miss Pecksniff , nobody would believe . 
'Lor , Mrs Todgers ! 'Awful , awful ! repeated Mrs Todgers , with strong emphasis . 
'You recollect our youngest gentleman , my dear ? 'Of course I do , said Cherry . 
'I never saw it ! cried Cherry 'that's all I can say . 
'It's a pity he didn't destroy himself , I think , observed Miss Pecksniff . 
'Himself ! said Mrs Todgers , 'it took another turn at night . 
He was for destroying other people then . 
Miss Pecksniff's face expressed supreme indifference . 
'And now , said Mrs Todgers , 'now he is the meekest of men . 
You can almost bring the tears into his eyes by looking at him . 
His only comfort is in female society . 
She treated it with great levity , and went on to inform herself , then and afterwards , whether any other changes had occurred in the commercial boarding house . 
by an old woman whose name was reported to be Tamaroo which seemed an impossibility . 
She was on all occasions chary of opening the street door , and ardent to shut it again and she waited at table in a bonnet . 
This was the only great change over and above the change which had fallen on the youngest gentleman . 
As for him , he more than corroborated the account of Mrs Todgers possessing greater sensibility than even she had given him credit for . 
Towards this most unhappy Moddle , Miss Pecksniff conducted herself at first with distant haughtiness , being in no humour to be entertained with dirges in honour of her married sister . 
The poor young gentleman was additionally crushed by this , and remonstrated with Mrs Todgers on the subject . 
'Even she turns from me , Mrs Todgers , said Moddle . 
'Then why don't you try and be a little bit more cheerful , sir ? retorted Mrs Todgers . 
'But I can't avoid her , replied Moddle , 'I haven't strength of mind to do it . 
Oh , Mrs Todgers , if you knew what a comfort her nose is to me ! 'Her nose , sir ! Mrs Todgers cried . 
'Her profile , in general , said the youngest gentleman , 'but particularly her nose . 
It's so like here he yielded to a burst of grief . 
Mr Moddle was not less sentimental than usual was rather more so , if anything but he sat and stared at her with glistening eyes , and seemed grateful . 
'Well , sir ! said the lady of the Boarding House next day . 
'You held up your head last night . 
You're coming round , I think . 
'Only because she's so like her who is Another's , Mrs Todgers , rejoined the youth . 
'When she talks , and when she smiles , I think I'm looking on HER brow again , Mrs Todgers . 
Mr Moddle taking up the gauntlet , they played several rubbers for sixpences , and Charity won them all . 
On the seventh night of cribbage , when Mrs Todgers , sitting by , proposed that instead of gambling they should play for 'love , Mr Moddle was seen to change colour . 
On the fourteenth night , he kissed Miss Pecksniff's snuffers , in the passage , when she went upstairs to bed meaning to have kissed her hand , but missing it . 
with rising prospects , and 'almost' enough to live on . 
Really it looked very well . 
Besides besides he had been regarded as devoted to Merry . 
Merry had joked about him , and had once spoken of it to her sister as a conquest . 
He was better looking , better shaped , better spoken , better tempered , better mannered than Jonas . 
He was easy to manage , could be made to consult the humours of his Betrothed , and could be shown off like a lamb when Jonas was a bear . 
All of which , so Mrs Todgers told Miss Pecksniff , spoke as plain English as the shining sun . 
'My dear Miss Pecksniff , you may depend upon it , said Mrs Todgers , 'that he is burning to propose . 
'My goodness me , why don't he then ? cried Cherry . 
'Men are so much more timid than we think 'em , my dear , returned Mrs Todgers . 
I saw the words on Todgers's lips for months and months and months , before he said 'em . 
Miss Pecksniff submitted that Todgers might not have been a fair specimen . 
'Oh yes , he was . 
Oh bless you , yes , my dear . 
I was very particular in those days , I assure you , said Mrs Todgers , bridling . 
You give Mr Moddle a little encouragement , Miss Pecksniff , if you wish him to speak and he'll speak fast enough , depend upon it . 
'I am sure I don't know what encouragement he would have , Mrs Todgers , returned Charity . 
'He walks with me , and plays cards with me , and he comes and sits alone with me . 
'Quite right , said Mrs Todgers . 
'That's indispensable , my dear . 
'And he sits very close to me . 
'Also quite correct , said Mrs Todgers . 
'And he looks at me . 
'To be sure he does , said Mrs Todgers . 
'And he has his arm upon the back of the chair or sofa , or whatever it is behind me , you know . 
'I should think so , said Mrs Todgers . 
They had been much together lately , she observed , much together , and had tasted the sweets of a genuine reciprocity of sentiment . 
He bore his good fortune with the utmost moderation . 
Oh , what a trying day this has been ! Good Gracious ! CHAPTER THIRTY THREE FURTHER PROCEEDINGS IN EDEN , AND A PROCEEDING OUT OF IT . 
MARTIN MAKES A DISCOVERY OF SOME IMPORTANCE From Mr Moddle to Eden is an easy and natural transition . 
The thriving city of Eden was also a terrestrial Paradise , upon the showing of its proprietors . 
The beautiful Miss Pecksniff might have been poetically described as a something too good for man in his fallen and degraded state . 
Now here I've got my partner to take care on , and he's something like the sort of man for the purpose . 
I want a man as is always a sliding off his legs when he ought to be on 'em . 
I want a man as is so low down in the school of life that he's always a making figures of one in his copy book , and can't get no further . 
I want a man as is his own great coat and cloak , and is always a wrapping himself up in himself . 
And I have got him too , said Mr Tapley , after a moment's silence . 
'What a happiness ! He paused to look round , uncertain to which of the log houses he should repair . 
'I don't know which to take , he observed 'that's the truth . 
They're equally prepossessing outside , and equally commodious , no doubt , within being fitted up with every convenience that a Alligator , in a state of natur' , could possibly require . 
Let me see ! The citizen as turned out last night , lives under water , in the right hand dog kennel at the corner . 
I don't want to trouble him if I can help it , poor man , for he is a melancholy object a reg'lar Settler in every respect . 
There's house with a winder , but I am afraid of their being proud . 
I don't know whether a door ain't too aristocratic but here goes for the first one ! He went up to the nearest cabin , and knocked with his hand . 
Being desired to enter , he complied . 
'Neighbour , said Mark 'for I AM a neighbour , though you don't know me I've come a begging . 
'My eyes is wrong ! said Mark . 
Nor these , he added , looking down upon the boys , 'ain't them two young shavers as was so familiar to me though they are uncommon like 'em . 
It was the same family , sure enough . 
Altered by the salubrious air of Eden . 
'This is a new sort of a morning call , said Mark , drawing a long breath . 
'It strikes one all of a heap . 
Wait a little bit ! I'm a coming round fast . 
That'll do ! These gentlemen ain't my friends . 
As they did not belong to the mansion , they were expelled by the two little boys . 
Not that I at all object to 'em . 
But one sees 'em to the best advantage out of doors perhaps . 
'How is it that you have come here ? asked the man , when their first expressions of surprise were over . 
'Why , we come by the steamer last night , replied Mark . 
'Our intention is to make our fortuns with punctuality and dispatch and to retire upon our property as soon as ever it's realised . 
But how are you all ? You're looking noble ! 'We are but sickly now , said the poor woman , bending over her child . 
'But we shall do better when we are seasoned to the place . 
'There are some here , thought Mark 'whose seasoning will last for ever . 
But he said cheerfully , 'Do better ! To be sure you will . 
We shall all do better . 
What we've got to do is , to keep up our spirits , and be neighbourly . 
We shall come all right in the end , never fear . 
That reminds me , by the bye , that my partner's all wrong just at present and that I looked in to beg for him . 
I wish you'd come and give me your opinion of him , master . 
The man rose to accompany him without a moment's delay . 
Before they went , Mark took the sick child in his arms , and tried to comfort the mother but the hand of death was on it then , he saw . 
They found Martin in the house , lying wrapped up in his blanket on the ground . 
'And with not too much of that , thought Mark , surveying his emaciated form . 
His attentions did not stop there for he was backwards and forwards constantly , and rendered Mark good service in all his brisk attempts to make their situation more endurable . 
Hope or comfort for the future he could not bestow . 
The season was a sickly one the settlement a grave . 
His child died that night and Mark , keeping the secret from Martin , helped to bury it , beneath a tree , next day . 
, Mark worked out of doors , early and late and with the assistance of his friend and others , laboured to do something with their land . 
The night we landed here , I thought things did look pretty jolly . 
I thought they did look pretty jolly . 
'How do they look now ? groaned Martin . 
'Ah ! said Mark , 'Ah , to be sure . 
As it is , the great object of my voyage is knocked on the head . 
So it would be , wherever I went . 
How do you feel to night , sir ? 'Worse than ever , said poor Martin . 
'That's something , returned Mark , 'but not enough . 
Nothing but being very bad myself , and jolly to the last , will ever do me justice . 
'In Heaven's name , don't talk of that , said Martin with a thrill of terror . 
'What should I do , Mark , if you were taken ill ! Mr Tapley's spirits appeared to be stimulated by this remark , although it was not a very flattering one . 
He proceeded with his washing in a brighter mood and observed 'that his glass was arising . 
There's two or three American settlers left and they coolly comes over one , even here , sir , as if it was the wholesomest and loveliest spot in the world . 
But they're like the cock that went and hid himself to save his life , and was found out by the noise he made . 
They was born to do it , and do it they must , whatever comes of it . 
'Here's one on 'em , cried Mark , 'Hannibal Chollop . 
'Don't let him in , said Martin , feebly . 
'He won't want any letting in , replied Mark . 
'He'll come in , sir . 
Which turned out to be quite true , for he did . 
His face was almost as hard and knobby as his stick and so were his hands . 
His head was like an old black hearth broom . 
He sat down on the chest with his hat on and crossing his legs and looking up at Mark , said , without removing his pipe 'Well , Mr Co . 
! and how do you git along , sir ? It may be necessary to observe that Mr Tapley had gravely introduced himself to all strangers , by that name . 
'Pretty well , sir pretty well , said Mark . 
'You need not regard me , sir , observed Mr Chollop , complacently . 
'I am fever proof , and likewise agur . 
'Mine was a more selfish motive , said Martin , looking out again . 
'I was afraid you were going to 'I can calc'late my distance , sir , returned Mr Chollop , 'to an inch . 
With a proof of which happy faculty he immediately favoured him . 
'I re quire , sir , said Hannibal , 'two foot clear in a circ'lar di rection , and can engage my self toe keep within it . 
I HAVE gone ten foot , in a circ'lar di rection , but that was for a wager . 
'I hope you won it , sir , said Mark . 
'Well , sir , I realised the stakes , said Chollop . 
He was silent for a time , during which he was actively engaged in the formation of a magic circle round the chest on which he sat . 
When it was completed , he began to talk again . 
'How do you like our country , sir ? he inquired , looking at Martin . 
'Not at all , was the invalid's reply . 
Chollop continued to smoke without the least appearance of emotion , until he felt disposed to speak again . 
That time at length arriving , he took his pipe from his mouth , and said 'I am not surprised to hear you say so . 
It re quires An elevation , and A preparation of the intellect . 
The mind of man must be prepared for Freedom , Mr Co . 
'Why yes , sir , returned Mark . 
'I haven't a doubt about it myself . 
'Europian ! remarked Chollop , with sardonic pity . 
'Quite Europian ! And there he sat . 
Silent and cool , as if the house were his smoking away like a factory chimney . 
Mr Chollop was , of course , one of the most remarkable men in the country but he really was a notorious person besides . 
He also carried , amongst other trinkets , a sword stick , which he called his 'Tickler . 
he called 'Ripper , in allusion to its usefulness as a means of ventilating the stomach of any adversary in a close contest . 
Mr Chollop was a man of a roving disposition and , in any less advanced community , might have been mistaken for a violent vagabond . 
He had come to Eden on a speculation of this kind , but had abandoned it , and was about to leave . 
He called this 'planting the standard of civilization in the wilder gardens of My country . 
, but for the utter desolation and decay prevailing in the settlement , and his own approaching departure from it . 
As it was , he contented himself with showing Mark one of the revolving pistols , and asking him what he thought of that weapon . 
'It ain't long since I shot a man down with that , sir , in the State of IllinOY , observed Chollop . 
'Did you , indeed ! said Mark , without the smallest agitation . 
'And what's that ? asked Mark . 
'Europian not to know , said Chollop , smoking placidly . 
'You miss the imposts of your country . 
You miss the house dues ? observed Chollop . 
'And the houses rather , said Mark . 
'No window dues here , sir , observed Chollop . 
'And no windows to put 'em on , said Mark . 
'No stakes , no dungeons , no blocks , no racks , no scaffolds , no thumbscrews , no pikes , no pillories , said Chollop . 
'Nothing but rewolwers and bowie knives , returned Mark . 
'Well , sir , said Chollop . 
'How do YOU git along ? He had considerable difficulty in getting along at all , and said as much in reply . 
And me , sir , observed Chollop , 'are disputating a piece . 
He ought to be slicked up pretty smart to disputate between the Old World and the New , I do expect ? 'Well ! returned the miserable shadow . 
'I was merely observing , sir , said Mark , addressing this new visitor , 'that I looked upon the city in which we have the honour to live , as being swampy . 
What's your sentiments ? 'I opinionate it's moist perhaps , at certain times , returned the man . 
'But not as moist as England , sir ? cried Chollop , with a fierce expression in his face . 
'Oh ! Not as moist as England let alone its Institutions , said the man . 
'I should hope there ain't a swamp in all Americay , as don't whip THAT small island into mush and molasses , observed Chollop , decisively . 
'You bought slick , straight , and right away , of Scadder , sir ? to Mark . 
He answered in the affirmative . 
Mr Chollop winked at the other citizen . 
'He should have his right side very high up , if I had my way , said Mark . 
'As high up as the top of a good tall gallows , perhaps . 
'I am a going easy , he observed . 
Mark entreated him to take particular care of himself . 
'Afore I go , he said sternly , 'I have got a leetle word to say to you . 
You are darnation 'cute , you are . 
Mark thanked him for the compliment . 
'But you are much too 'cute to last . 
I can't con ceive of any spotted Painter in the bush , as ever was so riddled through and through as you will be , I bet . 
'What for ? asked Mark . 
'We must be cracked up , sir , retorted Chollop , in a tone of menace . 
'You are not now in A despotic land . 
We are a model to the airth , and must be jist cracked up , I tell you . 
'What ! I speak too free , do I ? cried Mark . 
'I have draw'd upon A man , and fired upon A man for less , said Chollop , frowning . 
'I have know'd strong men obleeged to make themselves uncommon skase for less . 
I have know'd men Lynched for less , and beaten into punkin' sarse for less , by an enlightened people . 
We are the intellect and virtue of the airth , the cream of human natur' , and the flower Of moral force . 
Our backs is easy ris . 
We must be cracked up , or they rises , and we snarls . 
We shows our teeth , I tell you , fierce . 
'Come out from under the blanket , sir , said Mark , 'he's gone . 
What's this ! he added softly kneeling down to look into his partner's face , and taking his hot hand . 
'What's come of all that chattering and swaggering ? He's wandering in his mind to night , and don't know me ! Martin indeed was dangerously ill very near his death . 
He lay in that state many days , during which time Mark's poor friends , regardless of themselves , attended him . 
He remembered nothing but the better qualities of his fellow wanderer , and was devoted to him , heart and hand . 
He was yet in a feeble and weak condition , when the misfourtune he had so much dreaded fell upon them . 
Mark fought against it but the malady fought harder , and his efforts were in vain . 
, they were twenty times kinder to Mark . 
At first sight there was nothing very distressing in these meditations , but they did undoubtedly distress him for all that . 
Selfishness does this especially so do suspicion , cunning , stealth , and covetous propensities . 
Martin had unconsciously reasoned as a child , 'My guardian takes so much thought of himself , that unless I do the like by MYself , I shall be forgotten . 
So he had grown selfish . 
But he had never known it . 
If any one had taxed him with the vice , he would have indignantly repelled the accusation , and conceived himself unworthily aspersed . 
It was natural for him to reflect he had months to do it in upon his own escape , and Mark's extremity . 
, whether he had done his duty by him , and had deserved and made a good response to his fidelity and zeal . 
So low had Eden brought him down . 
So high had Eden raised him up . 
, Mark showed some symptoms of returning health . 
They came and went , and flickered for a time but he began to mend at last decidedly and after that continued to improve from day to day . 
'Ours is a desperate case , said Martin . 
The place is deserted its failure must have become known and selling what we have bought to any one , for anything , is hopeless , even if it were honest . 
We left home on a mad enterprise , and have failed . 
The only hope left us , the only one end for which we have now to try , is to quit this settlement for ever , and get back to England . 
Anyhow ! by any means ! only to get back there , Mark . 
'I thought of him when you was ill , said Mark . 
Shall I try Mr Bevan first ? 'He's a very pleasant sort of a gentleman , said Mark . 
'The few goods we brought here , and in which we spent our money , would produce something if sold , resumed Martin 'and whatever they realise shall be paid him instantly . 
But they can't be sold here . 
'There's nobody but corpses to buy 'em , said Mr Tapley , shaking his head with a rueful air , 'and pigs . 
If you don't mind trying him , sir 'Mind ! exclaimed Martin . 
'I am to blame for coming here , and I would do anything to get away . 
I grieve to think of the past . 
If I had taken your opinion sooner , Mark , we never should have been here , I am certain . 
Martin then read him a letter to Mr Bevan , which he had already prepared . 
It was frankly and ingenuously written , and described their situation without the least concealment plainly stated the miseries they had undergone and preferred their request in modest but straightforward terms . 
They were not likely to receive an answer for eight or ten weeks at the earliest . 
In the meantime they devoted such strength as they had to the attempted improvement of their land to clearing some of it , and preparing it for useful purposes . 
, appeared to have wandered there with the idea that husbandry was the natural gift of all mankind . 
They helped each other after their own manner in these struggles , and in all others but they worked as hopelessly and sadly as a gang of convicts in a penal settlement . 
It was a source of great amazement to Mark Tapley to find , pervading all these conversations , a singular alteration in Martin . 
'I don't know what to make of him , he thought one night , 'he ain't what I supposed . 
He don't think of himself half as much . 
Asleep , sir ? 'No , Mark . 
'Thinking of home , sir ? 'Yes , Mark . 
'So was I , sir . 
I was wondering how Mr Pinch and Mr Pecksniff gets on now . 
'Poor Tom ! said Martin , thoughtfully . 
'Weak minded man , sir , observed Mr Tapley . 
'Plays the organ for nothing , sir . 
Takes no care of himself ? 'I wish he took a little more , indeed , said Martin . 
'Though I don't know why I should . 
We shouldn't like him half as well , perhaps . 
'He gets put upon , sir , hinted Mark . 
'Yes ! said Martin , after a short silence . 
'I know that , Mark . 
He spoke so regretfully that his partner abandoned the theme , and was silent for a short time until he had thought of another . 
'Ah , sir ! said Mark , with a sigh . 
'Dear me ! You've ventured a good deal for a young lady's love ! 'I tell you what . 
I'm not so sure of that , Mark , was the reply so hastily and energetically spoken , that Martin sat up in his bed to give it . 
'I begin to be far from clear upon it . 
You may depend upon it she is very unhappy . 
She has to endure , Mark to endure without the possibility of action , poor girl ! I begin to think that she has more to bear than ever I had . 
Upon my soul I do ! Mr Tapley opened his eyes wide in the dark but did not interrupt . 
'And I'll tell you a secret , Mark , said Martin , 'since we ARE upon this subject . 
That ring 'Which ring , sir ? Mark inquired , opening his eyes still wider . 
'That ring she gave me when we parted , Mark . 
'Who says so , sir ? asked Mark . 
I thought of it , my good fellow , hundreds of times , while you were lying ill . 
You only talk to cheer me up . 
Good night ! God bless you , Mark ! 'God bless you , sir ! But I'm reg'larly defrauded , thought Mr Tapley , turning round with a happy face . 
I never entered for this sort of service . 
Rain , heat , foul slime , and noxious vapour , with all the ills and filthy things they bred , prevailed . 
The earth , the air , the vegetation , and the water that they drank , all teemed with deadly properties . 
Their fellow passenger had lost two children long before and buried now her last . 
Such things are much too common to be widely known or cared for . 
Smart citizens grow rich , and friendless victims smart and die , and are forgotten . 
At last a boat came panting up the ugly river , and stopped at Eden . 
Mark was waiting at the wood hut when it came , and had a letter handed to him from on board . 
He bore it off to Martin . 
They looked at one another , trembling . 
'It feels heavy , faltered Martin . 
And opening it a little roll of dollar notes fell out upon the ground . 
What either of them said , or did , or felt , at first , neither of them knew . 
The answer was , in ten or twelve days notwithstanding which they began to get their goods together and to tie them up that very night . 
that he would surely die before the boat returned . 
They lived , however , and it came , after the lapse of three long crawling weeks . 
At sunrise , on an autumn day , they stood upon her deck . 
'Courage ! We shall meet again ! cried Martin , waving his hand to two thin figures on the bank . 
'In the Old World ! 'Or in the next one , added Mark below his breath . 
He was about five and thirty was crushed and jammed up in a heap , under the shade of a large green cotton umbrella and ruminated over his tobacco plug like a cow . 
Every gentleman , too , was perfectly stopped up with tight plugging , and was dislocated in the greater part of his joints . 
But about this gentleman there was a peculiar air of sagacity and wisdom , which convinced Martin that he was no common character and this turned out to be the case . 
'How do you do sir ? said a voice in Martin's ear 'How do you do sir ? said Martin . 
It was a tall thin gentleman who spoke to him , with a carpet cap on , and a long loose coat of green baize , ornamented about the pockets with black velvet . 
'You air from Europe , sir ? 'I am , said Martin . 
'You air fortunate , sir . 
Martin thought so too but he soon discovered that the gentleman and he attached different meanings to this remark . 
'You air fortunate , sir , in having an opportunity of beholding our Elijah Pogram , sir . 
'Your Elijahpogram ! said Martin , thinking it was all one word , and a building of some sort . 
Martin tried to look as if he understood him , but he couldn't make it out . 
'Yes , sir , repeated the gentleman . 
'our Elijah Pogram , sir , is , at this minute , identically settin' by the en gine biler . 
The gentleman under the umbrella put his right forefinger to his eyebrow , as if he were revolving schemes of state . 
'That is Elijah Pogram , is it ? said Martin . 
'Yes , sir , replied the other . 
'Dear me ! said Martin . 
But he had not the least idea who this Elijah Pogram was having never heard the name in all his life . 
Yes , sir , that is the Honourable Elijah Pogram , Member of Congress one of the master minds of our country , sir . 
There is a brow , sir , there ! 'Quite remarkable , said Martin . 
This was before the Pogram Defiance , and was , therefore , a pre diction , cruel smart . 
'What is the Pogram Defiance ? asked Martin , thinking , perhaps , it was the sign of a public house . 
'An o ration , sir , returned his friend . 
'Oh ! to be sure , cried Martin . 
'What am I thinking of ! It defied 'It defied the world , sir , said the other , gravely . 
'Defied the world in general to com pete with our country upon any hook and devellop'd our internal resources for making war upon the universal airth . 
You would like to know Elijah Pogram , sir ? 'If you please , said Martin . 
'Mr Pogram , said the stranger Mr Pogram having overheard every word of the dialogue 'this is a gentleman from Europe , sir from England , sir . 
But gen'rous ene mies may meet upon the neutral sile of private life , I think . 
The languid Mr Pogram shook hands with Martin , like a clock work figure that was just running down . 
But he made amends by chewing like one that was just wound up . 
'Mr Pogram , said the introducer , 'is a public servant , sir . 
When Congress is recessed , he makes himself acquainted with those free United States , of which he is the gifted son . 
As he began with the words , 'How do you like ? Martin took him up and said 'The country , I presume ? 'Yes , sir , said Elijah Pogram . 
You don't mean it to be answered , except in one way . 
Now , I don't choose to answer it in that way , for I cannot honestly answer it in that way . 
And therefore , I would rather not answer it at all . 
For if he could have got nothing out of him , he would have had to invent it for him , and that would have been laborious . 
He made a mental note of his answer , and went in again . 
'You are from Eden , sir ? How did you like Eden ? Martin said what he thought of that part of the country , in pretty strong terms . 
Mark ! The gentleman is speaking of Mr Chollop . 
I see him , observed Mark . 
'A splendid example of our na tive raw material , sir ? said Pogram , interrogatively . 
'Indeed , sir ! cried Mark . 
'Our fellow countryman is a model of a man , quite fresh from Natur's mould ! said Pogram , with enthusiasm . 
had thundered the last sentence from his seat in Congress , at the head of an unpopular President . 
I thought he was a bully and I didn't admire his carryin' them murderous little persuaders , and being so ready to use 'em . 
'It's singler ! said Pogram , lifting his umbrella high enough to look all round from under it . 
'It's strange ! You observe the settled opposition to our Institutions which pervades the British mind ! 'What an extraordinary people you are ! cried Martin . 
'This morbid hatred of our Institutions , he observed , 'is quite a study for the psychological observer . 
They carried the umbrella by storm , however , and rushed in at the breach . 
'What do you think of my countrymen who are present , sir ? inquired Elijah Pogram . 
'Oh ! very pleasant , said Martin . 
They were a very pleasant party . 
No man had spoken a word every one had been intent , as usual , on his own private gorging and the greater part of the company were decidedly dirty feeders . 
The Honourable Elijah Pogram looked at Martin as if he thought 'You don't mean that , I know ! and he was soon confirmed in this opinion . 
There was a juiciness about the deed that might have sickened a scavenger . 
'This is the most wonderful community that ever existed . 
A man deliberately makes a hog of himself , and THAT'S an Institution ! 'We have no time to ac quire forms , sir , said Elijah Pogram . 
'But it's not a question of acquiring anything . 
It's a question of losing the natural politeness of a savage , and that instinctive good breeding which admonishes one man not to offend and disgust another . 
'Now , observe what this comes to , Mr Pogram , pursued Martin . 
You abet them in this , by resenting all attacks upon their social offences as if they were a beautiful national feature . 
From disregarding small obligations they come in regular course to disregard great ones and so refuse to pay their debts . 
After a weary voyage of several days , they came again to that same wharf where Mark had been so nearly left behind , on the night of starting for Eden . 
Captain Kedgick , the landlord , was standing there , and was greatly surprised to see them coming from the boat . 
'Why , what the 'tarnal ! cried the Captain . 
'Well ! I do admire at this , I do ! 'We can stay at your house until to morrow , Captain , I suppose ? said Martin . 
'I reckon you can stay there for a twelvemonth if you like , retorted Kedgick coolly . 
'But our people won't best like your coming back . 
'Won't like it , Captain Kedgick ! said Martin . 
'They did ex pect you was a going to settle , Kedgick answered , as he shook his head . 
'They've been took in , you can't deny ! 'What do you mean ? cried Martin . 
'You didn't ought to have received 'em , said the Captain . 
'We've come back alive , you see ! said Mark . 
'It ain't the thing I did expect , the Captain grumbled . 
'A man ain't got no right to be a public man , unless he meets the public views . 
Our fashionable people wouldn't have attended his le vee , if they had know'd it . 
Nothing mollified the Captain , who persisted in taking it very ill that they had not both died in Eden . 
'Sir ! said the spokesman . 
'Mr Pogram ! cried the shrill boy . 
The spokesman thus reminded of the shrill boy's presence , introduced him . 
'Doctor Ginery Dunkle , sir . 
A gentleman of great poetical elements . 
He has recently jined us here , sir , and is an acquisition to us , sir , I do assure you . 
Mr Julius Bib , sir . 
'Julius Washington Merryweather Bib , said the gentleman himself TO himself . 
'I beg your pardon , sir . 
Mr Julius Washington Merryweather Bib , sir a gentleman in the lumber line , sir , and much esteemed . 
Pro fessor Piper , sir . 
My own name , sir , is Oscar Buffum . 
Each man took one slide forward as he was named butted at the Honourable Elijah Pogram with his head shook hands , and slid back again . 
The introductions being completed , the spokesman resumed . 
'Sir ! 'Mr Pogram ! cried the shrill boy . 
'Perhaps , said the spokesman , with a hopeless look , 'you will be so good , Dr . 
Ginery Dunkle , as to charge yourself with the execution of our little office , sir ? As there was nothing the shrill boy desired more , he immediately stepped forward . 
'Which air so peculiarly the lot , sir , of our great and happy country . 
'Hear ! cried Colonel Grouper , in a loud voice . 
Mr Pogram bowed , and said 'Fellow countrymen ! 'Good ! cried the Colonel . 
'Hear , him ! Good ! Mr Pogram bowed to the Colonel individually , and then resumed . 
'Your approbation of My labours in the common cause goes to My heart . 
'The name of Pogram will be proud to jine you . 
And may it , My friends , be written on My tomb , He was a member of the Congress of our common country , and was ac Tive in his trust . 
'The Com mittee , sir , said the shrill boy , 'will wait upon you at five minutes afore eight . 
Which the shrill boy put in the paper next day to Elijah Pogram's great surprise . 
If you could set your back right slap agin that curtain peg , sir , keeping your left leg everlastingly behind the stove , we should be fixed quite slick . 
Mr Pogram did as he was told , and wedged himself into such a little corner that the Pogram statue wouldn't have known him . 
The entertainments of the evening then began . 
The ladies on the chairs looked at Elijah Pogram through their glasses , and said audibly , 'I wish he'd speak . 
She has turned up again ! 'Here she comes , sir , answered Mr Tapley . 
Mr Pogram testified emotions of delight on seeing her , and a general hush prevailed . 
For it was known that when a woman like Mrs Hominy encountered a man like Pogram , something interesting must be said . 
They now enlarged on certain questions of tariff , commercial treaty , boundary , importation and exportation with great effect . 
And Mrs Hominy not only talked , as the saying is , like a book , but actually did talk her own books , word for word . 
'My ! what is this ! cried Mrs Hominy , opening a little note which was handed her by her excited gentleman usher . 
Elijah Pogram , whom the two L. L. 's have often contemplated in the speaking marble of the soul subduing Chiggle . 
It may be another bond of union between the two L. L. 's and the mother of the M. G. to observe , that the two L. L. 's are Transcendental . 
quite the Last Scene from Coriolanus . 
One of the L. L. 's wore a brown wig of uncommon size . 
'Miss Toppit , and Miss Codger ! said Mrs Hominy . 
'Codger's the lady so often mentioned in the English newspapers I should think , sir , whispered Mark . 
'The oldest inhabitant as never remembers anything . 
'To be presented to a Pogram , said Miss Codger , 'by a Hominy , indeed , a thrilling moment is it in its impressiveness on what we call our feelings . 
'Mind and matter , said the lady in the wig , 'glide swift into the vortex of immensity . 
Howls the sublime , and softly sleeps the calm Ideal , in the whispering chambers of Imagination . 
To hear it , sweet it is . 
But then , outlaughs the stern philosopher , and saith to the Grotesque , What ho ! arrest for me that Agency . 
Go , bring it here ! And so the vision fadeth . 
After this , they both took Mr Pogram by the hand , and pressed it to their lips , as a patriotic palm . 
How Pogram got out of his depth instantly , and how the three L. L. 's were never in theirs , is a piece of history not worth recording . 
Suffice it , that being all four out of their depths , and all unable to swim , they splashed up words in all directions , and floundered about famously . 
On the whole , it was considered to have been the severest mental exercise ever heard in the National Hotel . 
Tears stood in the shrill boy's eyes several times and the whole company observed that their heads ached with the effort as well they might . 
When it at last became necessary to release Elijah Pogram from the corner , and the Committee saw him safely back again to the next room , they were fervent in their admiration . 
'Which , said Mr Buffum , 'must have vent , or it will bust . 
Toe you , Mr Pogram , I am grateful . 
Toe wards you , sir , I am inspired with lofty veneration , and with deep e mo tion . 
Suggested by witnessing the Honourable Elijah Pogram engaged in a philosophical disputation with three of Columbia's fairest daughters . 
If Pogram was as glad to get to bed as Martin was , he must have been well rewarded for his labours . 
, and were fellow travellers to within a short distance of New York . 
When Pogram was about to leave them he grew thoughtful , and after pondering for some time , took Martin aside . 
'We air going to part , sir , said Pogram . 
'Pray don't distress yourself , said Martin 'we must bear it . 
'It ain't that , sir , returned Pogram , 'not at all . 
But I should wish you to accept a copy of My oration . 
'Thank you , said Martin , 'you are very good . 
I shall be most happy . 
'It ain't quite that , sir , neither , resumed Pogram 'air you bold enough to introduce a copy into your country ? 'Certainly , said Martin . 
'Why not ? 'Its sentiments air strong , sir , hinted Pogram , darkly . 
'That makes no difference , said Martin . 
'I'll take a dozen if you like . 
'No , sir , retorted Pogram . 
That is more than I require . 
If you are content to run the hazard , sir , here is one for your Lord Chancellor , producing it , 'and one for Your principal Secretary of State . 
I should wish them to see it , sir , as expressing what my opinions air . 
That they may not plead ignorance at a future time . 
But don't get into danger , sir , on my account ! 'There is not the least danger , I assure you , said Martin . 
So he put the pamphlets in his pocket , and they parted . 
To this place they repaired without a moment's delay . 
They had the satisfaction of finding him within and of being received by their good friend , with his own warmth and heartiness . 
'I am truly sorry and ashamed , said Martin , 'to have begged of you . 
'The fact is , I closed with the thing in a mad and sanguine manner , said Martin , 'and the less said about it the better for me . 
Mark , here , hadn't a voice in the matter . 
'Well ! but he hadn't a voice in any other matter , had he ? returned Mr Bevan laughing with an air that showed his understanding of Mark and Martin too . 
'Not a very powerful one , I am afraid , said Martin with a blush . 
'But live and learn , Mr Bevan ! Nearly die and learn we learn the quicker . 
'Now , said their friend , 'about your plans . 
You mean to return home at once ? 'Oh , I think so , returned Martin hastily , for he turned pale at the thought of any other suggestion . 
'That is your opinion too , I hope ? 'Unquestionably . 
For I don't know why you ever came here though it's not such an unusual case , I am sorry to say , that we need go any farther into that . 
You don't know that the ship in which you came over with our friend General Fladdock , is in port , of course ? 'Indeed ! said Martin . 
And is advertised to sail to morrow . 
This was tempting news , but tantalising too for Martin knew that his getting any employment on board a ship of that class was hopeless . 
He explained this to Mr Bevan , and stated what their project was . 
'Why , that's as wild as Eden every bit , returned his friend . 
'You must take your passage like a Christian at least , as like a Christian as a fore cabin passenger can and owe me a few more dollars than you intend . 
, and we will all three dine together in the afternoon . 
Martin had nothing to express but gratitude , and so it was arranged . 
When he and Martin met again , and were alone , he was in high spirits , and evidently had something to communicate , in which he gloried very much . 
'I've done Mr Bevan , sir , said Mark . 
'Done Mr Bevan ! repeated Martin . 
'The cook of the Screw went and got married yesterday , sir , said Mr Tapley . 
Martin looked at him for farther explanation . 
For you're used to it , he says you were always a cooking for everybody on your passage out . 
And so I was , said Mark , 'although I never cooked before , I'll take my oath . 
'What did you say ? demanded Martin . 
'That I'd take anything I could get . 
If that's so , says the mate , why , bring a glass of rum which they brought according . 
and there we are , Rule Britannia , and Britons strike home ! 'There never was such a good fellow as you are ! cried Martin seizing him by the hand . 
'But what do you mean by doing Mr Bevan , Mark ? 'Why , don't you see ? said Mark . 
'We don't tell him , you know . 
We take his money , but we don't spend it , and we don't keep it . 
Don't you see ? Martin's delight in this idea was not inferior to Mark's . 
It was all done as he proposed . 
'Good bye ! a hundred thousand times good bye ! said Martin to their friend . 
Her sturdy bowsprit pointing true to England . 
America a cloud upon the sea behind them ! 'Why , Cook ! what are you thinking of so steadily ? said Martin . 
'That wouldn't do for me , sir . 
A year had passed since those same spires and roofs had faded from their eyes . 
It seemed to them , a dozen years . 
Some trifling changes , here and there , they called to mind and wondered that they were so few and slight . 
In health and fortune , prospect and resource , they came back poorer men than they had gone away . 
And though home is a name , a word , it is a strong one stronger than magician ever spoke , or spirit answered to , in strongest conjuration . 
Even the street was made a fairy street , by being half hidden in an atmosphere of steak , and strong , stout , stand up English beer . 
For on the window glass hung such a mist , that Mr Tapley was obliged to rise and wipe it with his handkerchief , before the passengers appeared like common mortals . 
And even then , a spiral little cloud went curling up from their two glasses of hot grog , which nearly hid them from each other . 
Martin and Mark sat looking at the people as they passed , debating every now and then what their first step should be . 
'We want to see Miss Mary , of course , said Mark . 
'Of course , said Martin . 
'But I don't know where she is . 
'My opinion is , sir , returned Mark , 'that what we've got to do is to travel straight to the Dragon . 
There's no need for you to go there , where you're known , unless you like . 
You may stop ten mile short of it . 
Mrs Lupin will tell me all the news . 
Mr Pinch will give me every information that we want and right glad Mr Pinch will be to do it . 
My proposal is To set off walking this afternoon . 
To stop when we are tired . 
To get a lift when we can . 
To walk when we can't . 
To do it at once , and do it cheap . 
'Unless we do it cheap , we shall have some difficulty in doing it at all , said Martin , pulling out the bank , and telling it over in his hand . 
'The greater reason for losing no time , sir , replied Mark . 
'Whereas , when you've seen the young lady and know what state of mind the old gentleman's in , and all about it then you'll know what to do next . 
'No doubt , said Martin . 
Placid , calm , but proud . 
Martin and Mark sat staring at each other , as if they could not believe it but there stood the landlord , and the other man still . 
In spite of the indignation with which this glimpse of Mr Pecksniff had inspired him , Martin could not help laughing heartily . 
'We must inquire into this ! said Martin . 
'Ask the landlord in , Mark . 
Mr Tapley retired for that purpose , and immediately returned with their large headed host in safe convoy . 
'The great Mr Pecksniff , the celebrated architect , gentlemen . 
said the landlord , 'has come down here , to help to lay the first stone of a new and splendid public building . 
'Is it to be built from his designs ? asked Martin . 
'Who lays the stone ? asked Martin . 
'Our member has come down express , returned the landlord . 
'No scrubs would do for no such a purpose . 
Nothing less would satisfy our Directors than our member in the House of Commons , who is returned upon the Gentlemanly Interest . 
'Which interest is that ? asked Martin . 
'What , don't you know ! returned the landlord . 
It was quite clear the landlord didn't . 
They always told him at election time , that it was the Gentlemanly side , and he immediately put on his top boots , and voted for it . 
'When does the ceremony take place ? asked Martin . 
'This day , replied the landlord . 
Then pulling out his watch , he added , impressively , 'almost this minute . 
Several ladies prepared their pocket handkerchiefs for waving and a stray teacher belonging to the charity school being much cheered by mistake , was immensely groaned at when detected . 
'Perhaps he has Tom Pinch with him , Martin whispered Mr Tapley . 
'It would be rather too much of a treat for him , wouldn't it , sir ? whispered Mr Tapley in return . 
A band of music followed , led by a conscientious drummer who never left off . 
Then the ladies waved their handkerchiefs , and the gentlemen their hats , and the charity children shrieked , and the member for the Gentlemanly Interest bowed . 
The workman like manner in which he did it was amazing . 
No one could conceive where such a gentlemanly creature could have picked the knowledge up . 
And now the stone was lowered down into its place , amidst the shouting of the concourse . 
, and people gathered round to look at and admire them . 
He returned to Mark , boiling with rage . 
'Why , what's the matter , sir ? cried Mark . 
'Matter ! This is MY building . 
'Your building , sir ! said Mark . 
In the meantime , the member addressed the company on the gratifying deed which he had just performed . 
it had been his pleasant duty to come among them , and to raise his voice on their behalf in Another Place , often . 
But he had never come among them , and had never raised his voice , with half such pure , such deep , such unalloyed delight , as now . 
Everybody seemed very glad of this , and applauded more than ever . 
All this time , Martin was cursing Mr Pecksniff up hill and down dale . 
'My friends ! said Mr Pecksniff , in reply . 
'My duty is to build , not speak to act , not talk to deal with marble , stone , and brick not language . 
I am very much affected . 
God bless you ! This address , pumped out apparently from Mr Pecksniff's very heart , brought the enthusiasm to its highest pitch . 
When the procession moved away , and Martin and Mark were left almost alone upon the ground , his merits and a desire to acknowledge them formed the common topic . 
He was only second to the Gentlemanly member . 
'Compare the fellow's situation to day with ours ! said Martin bitterly . 
'Lord bless you , sir ! cried Mark , 'what's the use ? Some architects are clever at making foundations , and some architects are clever at building on 'em when they're made . 
But it'll all come right in the end , sir it'll all come right ! 'And in the meantime began Martin . 
'In the meantime , as you say , sir , we have a deal to do , and far to go . 
Nor did he much improve his appetite for dinner by seriously considering his own affairs , and taking counsel thereon with his friend the organist's assistant . 
The organist's assistant gave it as his decided opinion that whatever Tom did , he must go to London for there was no place like it . 
Which may be true in the main , though hardly , perhaps , in itself , a sufficient reason for Tom's going there . 
To London , therefore , he resolved to go and he went away to the coach office at once , to secure his place . 
'So , said Tom , comforting himself , 'it's very nearly as broad as it's long . 
When the coach came round at last with 'London' blazoned in letters of gold upon the boot , it gave Tom such a turn , that he was half disposed to run away . 
It was the same with his hat . 
He did things with his hat , which nothing but an unlimited knowledge of horses and the wildest freedom of the road , could ever have made him perfect in . 
The guard , too ! Seventy breezy miles a day were written in his very whiskers . 
His manners were a canter his conversation a round trot . 
He was a fast coach upon a down hill turnpike road he was all pace . 
A waggon couldn't have moved slowly , with that guard and his key bugle on the top of it . 
These were all foreshadowings of London , Tom thought , as he sat upon the box , and looked about him . 
Such a coachman , and such a guard , never could have existed between Salisbury and any other place . 
It cared no more for Salisbury than if it had been a hamlet . 
It was a charming evening . 
And even with the weight upon his mind which arose out of the immensity and uncertainty of London , Tom could not resist the captivating sense of rapid motion through the pleasant air . 
Yoho , past hedges , gates , and trees past cottages and barns , and people going home from work . 
Yoho , down the pebbly dip , and through the merry water splash and up at a canter to the level road again . 
'I didn't mean to give you this trouble . 
'Trouble , Mr Pinch ! cried the hostess of the Dragon . 
'Well ! It's a pleasure to you , I know , said Tom , squeezing her hand heartily . 
'Is there any news ? The hostess shook her head . 
Good bye ! 'You'll write when you get settled , Mr Pinch ? said Mrs Lupin . 
'When I get settled ! cried Tom , with an involuntary opening of his eyes . 
'Oh , yes , I'll write when I get settled . 
Perhaps I had better write before , because I may find that it takes a little time to settle myself not having too much money , and having only one friend . 
I shall give your love to the friend , by the way . 
You were always great with Mr Westlock , you know . 
Good bye ! 'Good bye ! said Mrs Lupin , hastily producing a basket with a long bottle sticking out of it . 
Good bye ! 'Do you want me to carry it to London for you ? cried Tom . 
She was already turning the chaise cart round . 
'No , no , said Mrs Lupin . 
'It's only a little something for refreshment on the road . 
All right ! Good bye ! She was a quarter of a mile off , before Tom collected himself and then he was waving his hand lustily and so was she . 
'She is the kindest and most considerate creature in the world , thought Tom . 
would have done nothing but grin and stare . 
Upon my word , the kindness of people perfectly melts me . 
Here he caught the coachman's eye . 
'Remarkable fine woman for her time of life , said the coachman . 
'I quite agree with you , returned Tom . 
'Finer than many a young 'un , I mean to say , observed the coachman . 
'Eh ? 'Than many a young one , Tom assented . 
'I don't care for 'em myself when they're too young , remarked the coachman . 
This was a matter of taste , which Tom did not feel himself called upon to discuss . 
'Perhaps you would like to know what it contains ? said Tom , smiling . 
As the coachman only laughed , and as Tom was curious himself , he unpacked it , and put the articles , one by one , upon the footboard . 
There was a letter besides , which Tom put in his pocket . 
Don't be afraid of turning up your finger , Bill , another pull ! Now , take your breath , and try the bugle , Bill . 
There's music ! There's a tone ! over the hills and far away , indeed . 
Yoho ! The skittish mare is all alive to night . 
Yoho ! Yoho ! See the bright moon ! High up before we know it making the earth reflect the objects on its breast like water . 
The poplars yonder rustle that their quivering leaves may see themselves upon the ground . 
Not so the oak trembling does not become HIM and he watches himself in his stout old burly steadfastness , without the motion of a twig . 
Yoho ! Why now we travel like the Moon herself . 
Yoho ! A match against the Moon ! The beauty of the night is hardly felt , when Day comes rushing up . 
Yoho ! Two stages , and the country roads are almost changed to a continuous street . 
'Don't they expect you then ? inquired the driver . 
'Why them , returned the driver . 
He cheerfully evaded the subject , and going into the Inn , fell fast asleep before a fire in one of the public rooms opening from the yard . 
When at last he arrived outside John's door , two stories up , he stood faltering with his hand upon the knocker , and trembled from head to foot . 
'But it must be made , thought Tom , 'sooner or later and I had better get it over . 
'I am afraid that's not a London knock , thought Tom . 
Perhaps that's the reason why nobody answers the door . 
'Bless my soul ! thought Tom at last . 
'Perhaps he lives here , and is calling to me . 
I never thought of that . 
Can I open the door from the outside , I wonder . 
Yes , to be sure I can . 
'Why , Tom , my boy ! cried the gentleman . 
'Tom ! 'How glad I am to see you , Mr Westlock ! said Tom Pinch , shaking both his hands , and trembling more than ever . 
I have not forgotten , said Thomas Pinch . 
'Good gracious me , how kind you are ! 'I never saw such a fellow in all my life ! cried John . 
How are you , my boy ? I am delighted to see you ! 'And I am delighted to see YOU , said Tom . 
'It's mutual , of course , returned John . 
'It always was , I hope . 
If I had known you had been coming , Tom , I would have had something for breakfast . 
You must make out as well as you can , Tom , and we'll recompense ourselves at dinner time . 
You take sugar , I know I recollect the sugar at Pecksniff's . 
Ha , ha , ha ! How IS Pecksniff ? When did you come to town ? DO begin at something or other , Tom . 
There are only scraps here , but they are not at all bad . 
Make a beginning whatever you do . 
What an old Blade you are ! I am delighted to see you . 
'There ! said John , sitting down for the fiftieth time , and instantly starting up again to make some other addition to the breakfast . 
'Now we are as well off as we are likely to be till dinner . 
And now let us have the news , Tom . 
Imprimis , how's Pecksniff ? 'I don't know how he is , was Tom's grave answer . 
John Westlock put the teapot down , and looked at him , in astonishment . 
'I don't know how he is , said Thomas Pinch 'and , saving that I wish him no ill , I don't care . 
I have left him , John . 
I have left him for ever . 
'Voluntarily ? 'Why , no , for he dismissed me . 
But I had first found out that I was mistaken in him and I could not have remained with him under any circumstances . 
I grieve to say that you were right in your estimate of his character . 
It may be a ridiculous weakness , John , but it has been very painful and bitter to me to find this out , I do assure you . 
Tom had no need to direct that appealing look towards his friend , in mild and gentle deprecation of his answering with a laugh . 
John Westlock would as soon have thought of striking him down upon the floor . 
'It was all a dream of mine , said Tom , 'and it is over . 
I'll tell you how it happened , at some other time . 
Bear with my folly , John . 
I do not , just now , like to think or speak about it . 
I reproach myself with the thought that I ever jested on the subject I ought to have known better . 
You can't think what a weight is lifted off my mind , said Tom , taking up his knife and fork again , and looking very cheerful . 
'I shall punish the Boar's Head dreadfully . 
'That's all right , said John , after contemplating his visitor's proceedings with infinite satisfaction . 
'Now , about our plans . 
You are going to stay with me , of course . 
Where's your box ? 'It's at the Inn , said Tom . 
'I didn't intend 'Never mind what you didn't intend , John Westlock interposed . 
'What you DID intend is more to the purpose . 
You intended , in coming here , to ask my advice , did you not , Tom ? 'Certainly . 
Then don't be an obstinate old humbug in the outset , Tom , or I shall shut up shop and dispense none of that invaluable commodity . 
You are on a visit to me . 
I wish I had an organ for you , Tom ! 'So do the gentlemen downstairs , and the gentlemen overhead I have no doubt , was Tom's reply . 
In the first place , you will wish to see your sister this morning , pursued his friend , 'and of course you will like to go there alone . 
I'll walk part of the way with you and see about a little business of my own , and meet you here again in the afternoon . 
Put that in your pocket , Tom . 
It's only the key of the door . 
If you come home first you'll want it . 
'Really , said Tom , 'quartering one's self upon a friend in this way 'Why , there are two keys , interposed John Westlock . 
'Very well , then you may as well leave it to me . 
What do you say ? Shall we walk ? 'By all means , cried Tom . 
'As soon as you like . 
Accordingly John Westlock took the French rolls out of his boots , and put his boots on , and dressed himself giving Tom the paper to read in the meanwhile . 
When he returned , equipped for walking , he found Tom in a brown study , with the paper in his hand . 
'Dreaming , Tom ? 'No , said Mr Pinch , 'No . 
I have been looking over the advertising sheet , thinking there might be something in it which would be likely to suit me . 
But , as I often think , the strange thing seems to be that nobody is suited . 
Here are all kinds of employers wanting all sorts of servants , and all sorts of servants wanting all kinds of employers , and they never seem to come together . 
So many years had passed since Tom was last in London , and he had known so little of it then , that his interest in all he saw was very great . 
But on John Westlock's inventing a pickpocket for his gratification , and pointing out a highly respectable stranger as one of that fraternity , he was much delighted . 
His friend accompanied him to within a short distance of Camberwell and having put him beyond the possibility of mistaking the wealthy brass and copper founder's , left him to make his visit . 
Arriving before the great bell handle , Tom gave it a gentle pull . 
'Pray does Miss Pinch live here ? said Tom . 
'Miss Pinch is governess here , replied the porter . 
Is she at home ? 'I don't know , I'm sure , rejoined the porter . 
'Do you think you could have the goodness to ascertain ? said Tom . 
He had quite a delicacy in offering the suggestion , for the possibility of such a step did not appear to present itself to the porter's mind at all . 
, and that there the functions of his office had ceased . 
'I didn't observe that there was anybody else . 
Pray is Miss Pinch at home ? 'She's IN , replied the footman . 
As much as to say to Tom 'But if you think she has anything to do with the proprietorship of this place you had better abandon that idea . 
'I wish to see her , if you please , said Tom . 
He then invited Tom to come in , and showed him into a parlour . 
'Hany neem ? said the young man , pausing languidly at the door . 
'Say her brother , if you please , said Tom . 
'Mother ? drawled the footman . 
'Brother , repeated Tom , slightly raising his voice . 
The young man's interest in Tom's observations had ceased long before this time , but he kindly waited until now when , shutting the door , he withdrew . 
'Dear me ! said Tom . 
'This is very disrespectful and uncivil behaviour . 
I hope these are new servants here , and that Ruth is very differently treated . 
His cogitations were interrupted by the sound of voices in the adjoining room . 
They seemed to be engaged in high dispute , or in indignant reprimand of some offender and gathering strength occasionally , broke out into a perfect whirlwind . 
It was in one of these gusts , as it appeared to Tom , that the footman announced him for an abrupt and unnatural calm took place , and then a dead silence . 
'It's matter of fact not opinion . 
But what's the matter ? said Tom , looking at her more intently , 'how flushed you are ! and you have been crying . 
'No , I have not , Tom . 
'Nonsense , said her brother stoutly . 
Don't tell me ! I know better . 
What is it , dear ? I'm not with Mr Pecksniff now . 
you shall not remain here . 
Oh ! Tom's blood was rising mind that ! Perhaps the Boar's Head had something to do with it , but certainly the footman had . 
So had the sight of his pretty sister a great deal to do with it . 
Tom could bear a good deal himself , but he was proud of her , and pride is a sensitive thing . 
'I am afraid I cannot stay here . 
'Why then , you shall not , my love . 
'Show the way , said Tom . 
'I'll wait upon him at once . 
There was likewise present that eldest pupil of Miss Pinch , whom Mrs Todgers , on a previous occasion , had called a syrup , and who was now weeping and sobbing spitefully . 
'My brother , sir , said Ruth Pinch , timidly presenting Tom . 
'Oh ! cried the gentleman , surveying Tom attentively . 
'You really are Miss Pinch's brother , I presume ? You will excuse my asking . 
I don't observe any resemblance . 
'Miss Pinch has a brother , I know , observed the lady . 
'Miss Pinch is always talking about her brother , when she ought to be engaged upon my education , sobbed the pupil . 
'Sophia ! Hold your tongue ! observed the gentleman . 
'Sit down , if you please , addressing Tom . 
Tom sat down , looking from one face to another , in mute surprise . 
'Remain here , if you please , Miss Pinch , pursued the gentleman , looking slightly over his shoulder . 
Tom interrupted him here , by rising to place a chair for his sister . 
Having done which he sat down again . 
'I am glad you chance to have called to see your sister to day , sir , resumed the brass and copper founder . 
I am sorry to inform you that we are not at all satisfied with your sister . 
'We are very much DISsatisfied with her , observed the lady . 
'I'd never say another lesson to Miss Pinch if I was to be beat to death for it ! sobbed the pupil . 
'Sophia ! cried her father . 
'Hold your tongue ! 'Will you allow me to inquire what your ground of dissatisfaction is ? asked Tom . 
'Yes , said the gentleman , 'I will . 
I don't recognize it as a right but I will . 
Your sister has not the slightest innate power of commanding respect . 
It has been a constant source of difference between us . 
Miss Pinch has been perfectly unable to command my daughter's respect , or to win my daughter's confidence . 
'I am not at all disposed to deny it . 
I am sure that there is something radically wrong radically monstrous , in that . 
'Which is worse , said the gentleman , triumphantly 'which is worse . 
A low , coarse , despicable expression ! 'Most despicable , cried Tom . 
'I am glad to find that there is a just appreciation of it here . 
'So just , sir , said the gentleman , lowering his voice to be the more impressive . 
They don't exist , sir . 
She is ready to depart this instant . 
Ruth , my dear , get your bonnet on ! 'Oh , a pretty family ! cried the lady . 
I have no doubt you are used to it . 
'Sir ! cried Tom , after regarding him in silence for some little time . 
'If you do not understand what I mean , I will tell you . 
If you do understand what I mean , I beg you not to repeat that mode of expressing yourself in answer to it . 
My meaning is , that no man can expect his children to respect what he degrades . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! laughed the gentleman . 
'Cant ! cant ! The common cant ! 'The common story , sir ! said Tom 'the story of a common mind . 
Your governess cannot win the confidence and respect of your children , forsooth ! Let her begin by winning yours , and see what happens then . 
'Miss Pinch is getting her bonnet on , I trust , my dear ? said the gentleman . 
'I trust she is , said Tom , forestalling the reply . 
'I have no doubt she is . 
In the meantime I address myself to you , sir . 
You made your statement to me , sir you required to see me for that purpose and I have a right to answer it . 
I am not loud or turbulent , said Tom , which was quite true , 'though I can scarcely say as much for you , in your manner of addressing yourself to me . 
And I wish , on my sister's behalf , to state the simple truth . 
'You may state anything you like , young man , returned the gentleman , affecting to yawn . 
'My dear , Miss Pinch's money . 
She is as well bred , as well taught , as well qualified by nature to command respect , as any hirer of a governess you know . 
'It is very bad and mean , and wrong and cruel . 
'I speak without passion , but with extreme indignation and contempt for such a course of treatment , and for all who practice it , said Tom . 
'No right ! cried the brass and copper founder . 
'Distinctly not , Tom answered . 
'If you imagine that the payment of an annual sum of money gives it to you , you immensely exaggerate its power and value . 
Your money is the least part of your bargain in such a case . 
You may be punctual in that to half a second on the clock , and yet be Bankrupt . 
Not waiting to obtain it , Tom walked out . 
Before he had well begun to cool , his sister joined him . 
She was crying and Tom could not bear that any one about the house should see her doing that . 
'They will think you are sorry to go , said Tom . 
'You are not sorry to go ? 'No , Tom , no . 
I have been anxious to go for a very long time . 
'Very well , then ! Don't cry ! said Tom . 
'I am so sorry for YOU , dear , sobbed Tom's sister . 
'But you ought to be glad on my account , said Tom . 
'I shall be twice as happy with you for a companion . 
There ! Now we go out as we ought . 
Not blustering , you know , but firm and confident in ourselves . 
The idea of Tom and his sister blustering , under any circumstances , was a splendid absurdity . 
'Don't you don't you live anywhere , dear ? asked Tom's sister looking wistfully in his face . 
I only arrived this morning . 
We must have some lodgings . 
'Where shall we go and look for 'em ? said Tom . 
'What do you think ? Tom's sister was not much wiser on such a topic than he was . 
'It ought to be a cheap neighbourhood , said Tom , 'and not too far from London . 
Should you think Islington a good place ? 'I should think it was an excellent place , Tom . 
'It used to be called Merry Islington , once upon a time , said Tom . 
'Perhaps it's merry now if so , it's all the better . 
Eh ? 'If it's not too dear , said Tom's sister . 
'Of course , if it's not too dear , assented Tom . 
'Well , where IS Islington ? We can't do better than go there , I should think . 
Tom's sister would have gone anywhere with him so they walked off , arm in arm , as comfortably as possible . 
Finding , presently , that Islington was not in that neighbourhood , Tom made inquiries respecting a public conveyance thither which they soon obtained . 
'Now , said Tom , 'we must first look out for some very unpretending streets , and then look out for bills in the windows . 
It was late in the afternoon now , though , and high time for Tom to keep his appointment . 
'I am quite a family man all at once , thought Tom . 
'If I can only get something to do , how comfortable Ruth and I may be ! Ah , that if ! But it's of no use to despond . 
I can but do that , when I have tried everything and failed and even then it won't serve me much . 
Upon my word , thought Tom , quickening his pace , 'I don't know what John will think has become of me . 
He'll begin to be afraid I have strayed into one of those streets where the countrymen are murdered and that I have been made meat pies of , or some such horrible thing . 
CHAPTER THIRTY SEVEN TOM PINCH , GOING ASTRAY , FINDS THAT HE IS NOT THE ONLY PERSON IN THAT PREDICAMENT . 
But he lost his way . 
He very soon did that and in trying to find it again he lost it more and more . 
The Man in the Monument was quite as mysterious a being to Tom as the Man in the Moon . 
It immediately occurred to him that the lonely creature who held himself aloof from all mankind in that pillar like some old hermit was the very man of whom to ask his way . 
Tom was advancing towards this remarkable creature , to inquire the way to Furnival's Inn , when two people came to see the Monument . 
They were a gentleman and a lady and the gentleman said , 'How much a piece ? The Man in the Monument replied , 'A Tanner . 
It seemed a low expression , compared with the Monument . 
The gentleman put a shilling into his hand , and the Man in the Monument opened a dark little door . 
When the gentleman and lady had passed out of view , he shut it again , and came slowly back to his chair . 
He sat down and laughed . 
'They don't know what a many steps there is ! he said . 
'It's worth twice the money to stop here . 
Oh , my eye ! The Man in the Monument was a Cynic a worldly man ! Tom couldn't ask his way of HIM . 
He was prepared to put no confidence in anything he said . 
'My gracious ! cried a well known voice behind Mr Pinch . 
'Why , to be sure it is ! At the same time he was poked in the back by a parasol . 
Turning round to inquire into this salute , he beheld the eldest daughter of his late patron . 
'Miss Pecksniff ! said Tom . 
'Why , my goodness , Mr Pinch ! cried Cherry . 
'What are you doing here ? 'I have rather wandered from my way , said Tom . 
'I 'I hope you have run away , said Charity . 
'It would be quite spirited and proper if you had , when my Papa so far forgets himself . 
'I have left him , returned Tom . 
'But it was perfectly understood on both sides . 
It was not done clandestinely . 
'Is he married ? asked Cherry , with a spasmodic shake of her chin . 
'Tcha , Mr Pinch ! cried Charity , with sharp impatience , 'you're very easily deceived . 
You don't know the arts of which such a creature is capable . 
Oh ! it's a wicked world . 
'You are not married ? Tom hinted , to divert the conversation . 
'N no ! said Cherry , tracing out one particular paving stone in Monument Yard with the end of her parasol . 
'I but really it's quite impossible to explain . 
Won't you walk in ? 'You live here , then ? said Tom 'Yes , returned Miss Pecksniff , pointing with her parasol to Todgers's 'I reside with this lady , AT PRESENT . 
The great stress on the two last words suggested to Tom that he was expected to say something in reference to them . 
'Only at present ! Are you going home again soon ? 'No , Mr Pinch , returned Charity . 
Not quite ! said Cherry , with a spiteful shiver . 
'I thought from your saying at present Tom observed . 
Miss Pecksniff simpered very much when he asked her if she knew the way to Furnival's Inn , and at length found courage to reply . 
You had better walk in . 
You will very likely find my sister Merry here , she said with a curious toss of her head , and anything but an agreeable smile . 
'Then , I think , I'll endeavour to find my way alone , said Tom , 'for I fear she would not be very glad to see me . 
That unfortunate occurrence , in relation to which you and I had some amicable words together , in private , is not likely to have impressed her with any friendly feeling towards me . 
Though it really was not my fault . 
'She has never heard of that , you may depend , said Cherry , gathering up the corners of her mouth , and nodding at Tom . 
'I am far from sure that she would bear you any mighty ill will for it , if she had . 
'You don't say so ? cried Tom , who was really concerned by this insinuation . 
'I say nothing , said Charity . 
Here she smiled as before . 
'But I don't say anything . 
On the contrary , I should scorn it . 
You had better walk in ! There was something hidden here , which piqued Tom's interest and troubled his tender heart . 
And yet he put no definite construction upon Charity's proceedings . 
In short , he had merely a confused impression that Miss Pecksniff was not quite sisterly or kind and being curious to set it right , accompanied her as she desired . 
The house door being opened , she went in before Tom , requesting him to follow her and led the way to the parlour door . 
'Oh , Merry ! she said , looking in , 'I am so glad you have not gone home . 
Who do you think I have met in the street , and brought to see you ! Mr Pinch ! There . 
Now you ARE surprised , I am sure ! Not more surprised than Tom was , when he looked upon her . 
'Mr Pinch has left Papa , my dear , said Cherry , 'and his prospects are quite flourishing . 
I have promised that Augustus , who is going that way , shall escort him to the place he wants . 
He had not expected that . 
The two things seemed quite natural . 
'I wonder you find any gratification in coming to see me . 
I can't think what put it in your head . 
I never had much in seeing you . 
There was no love lost between us , Mr Pinch , at any time , I think . 
Her bonnet lay beside her on the sofa , and she was very busy with the ribbons as she spoke . 
Much too busy to be conscious of the work her fingers did . 
'We never quarrelled , said Tom . 
Tom was right in that , for one person can no more quarrel without an adversary , than one person can play at chess , or fight a duel . 
'I hoped you would be glad to shake hands with an old friend . 
Don't let us rake up bygones , said Tom . 
'If I ever offended you , forgive me . 
She looked at him for a moment dropped her bonnet from her hands spread them before her altered face , and burst into tears . 
'Oh , Mr Pinch ! she said , 'although I never used you well , I did believe your nature was forgiving . 
I did not think you could be cruel . 
She spoke as little like her old self now , for certain , as Tom could possibly have wished . 
But she seemed to be appealing to him reproachfully , and he did not understand her . 
'I seldom showed it never I know that . 
'Would have named me ! Tom repeated . 
'Yes , she said with energy , 'and I have often thought so . 
After a moment's reflection , Tom sat himself upon a chair beside her . 
If I ever offended you , forgive me I may have done so , many times . 
You never injured or offended me . 
Still she wept bitterly and it was the greater pain to Tom to see her weeping , from her standing in especial need , just then , of sympathy and tenderness . 
'Come , come ! said Tom , 'you used to be as cheerful as the day was long . 
'Ah ! used ! she cried , in such a tone as rent Tom's heart . 
'And will be again , said Tom . 
No , never , never more . 
'Many times since then , when I have wished I had been carried there before that day , I have recalled his words . 
I wish that he should know how true they were , although the least acknowledgment to that effect has never passed my lips and never will . 
Tom promised this , conditionally too . 
He did not tell her how improbable it was that he and the old man would ever meet again , because he thought it might disturb her more . 
'Yes , yes , said Tom , 'I will . 
Touched to the quick , he took her hand and said , or meant to say , some words of consolation . 
She felt and understood them , whether they were spoken or no . 
He was not quite certain , afterwards , but that she had tried to kneel down at his feet , and bless him . 
He found that he was not alone in the room when she had left it . 
Mrs Todgers was there , shaking her head . 
'Ah , sir ! You are an old friend , I see , said Mrs Todgers . 
'And yet , quoth Mrs Todgers , shutting the door softly , 'she hasn't told you what her troubles are , I'm certain . 
Tom was struck by these words , for they were quite true . 
'Indeed , he said , 'she has not . 
'And never would , said Mrs Todgers , 'if you saw her daily . 
She never makes the least complaint to me , or utters a single word of explanation or reproach . 
And , I believe , said Mrs Todgers , putting back her handkerchief again , 'that she considers me a good friend too . 
Mrs Todgers might have said her best friend . 
'Mr Thomas Pinch ! said Charity , performing the ceremony of introduction with evident pride . 
Where's my sister ? 'Gone , Miss Pecksniff , Mrs Todgers answered . 
'She had appointed to be home . 
'Ah ! said Charity , looking at Tom . 
'Oh , dear me ! 'She's greatly altered since she's been Anoth since she's been married , Mrs Todgers ! observed Moddle . 
'My dear Augustus ! said Miss Pecksniff , in a low voice . 
'I verily believe you have said that fifty thousand times , in my hearing . 
What a Prose you are ! This was succeeded by some trifling love passages , which appeared to originate with , if not to be wholly carried on by Miss Pecksniff . 
At any rate , Mr Moddle was much slower in his responses than is customary with young lovers , and exhibited a lowness of spirits which was quite oppressive . 
He did not improve at all when Tom and he were in the streets , but sighed so dismally that it was dreadful to hear him . 
As a means of cheering him up , Tom told him that he wished him joy . 
'Ha , ha ! 'What an extraordinary young man ! thought Tom . 
'The Scorner has not set his seal upon you . 
YOU care what becomes of you ? said Moddle . 
Tom admitted that it was a subject in which he certainly felt some interest . 
'I don't , said Mr Moddle . 
'The Elements may have me when they please . 
Tom inferred from these , and other expressions of the same nature , that he was jealous . 
It was now a couple of hours past John Westlock's dinner time and he was walking up and down the room , quite anxious for Tom's safety . 
The table was spread the wine was carefully decanted and the dinner smelt delicious . 
'Why , Tom , old boy , where on earth have you been ? Your box is here . 
'Can't stay ! 'If you'll go on with your dinner , said Tom , 'I'll tell you my reason the while . 
I mustn't eat myself , or I shall have no appetite for the chops . 
'There are no chops here , my food fellow . 
But there are at Islington , said Tom . 
John Westlock was perfectly confounded by this reply , and vowed he would not touch a morsel until Tom had explained himself fully . 
So Tom sat down , and told him all to which he listened with the greatest interest . 
He knew Tom too well , and respected his delicacy too much , to ask him why he had taken these measures without communicating with him first . 
Tom's proposition that he should sup with them that night , he flatly rejected , but made an appointment with him for the morrow . 
'And now Tom , he said , as they rode along , 'I have a question to ask you to which I expect a manly and straightforward answer . 
Do you want any money ? I am pretty sure you do . 
'I don't indeed , said Tom . 
'I believe you are deceiving me . 
With many thanks to you , I am quite in earnest , Tom replied . 
'And a blessing on every dimple in her handsome face , say I ! cried John , 'though why you should give her the preference over me , I don't know . 
I bide my time , Tom . 
'And I hope you'll continue to bide it , returned Tom , gayly . 
'For I owe you more , already , in a hundred other ways , than I can ever hope to pay . 
They parted at the door of Tom's new residence . 
Well ! she WAS a cheerful little thing and had a quaint , bright quietness about her that was infinitely pleasant . 
Surely she was the best sauce for chops ever invented . 
The potatoes seemed to take a pleasure in sending up their grateful steam before her the froth upon the pint of porter pouted to attract her notice . 
But it was all in vain . 
She saw nothing but Tom . 
Tom was the first and last thing in the world . 
Mr Nadgett naturally passed away from Tom's remembrance as he passed out of his view for he didn't know him , and had never heard his name . 
Tom might have done the like by him of course . 
Why Tom had Jonas Chuzzlewit in his mind requires no explanation . 
Why Mr Nadgett should have had Jonas Chuzzlewit in his , is quite another thing . 
But , somehow or other , that amiable and worthy orphan had become a part of the mystery of Mr Nadgett's existence . 
Mr Nadgett took an interest in his lightest proceedings and it never flagged or wavered . 
And yet all this was quite a secret . 
Mr Nadgett kept it to himself , and kept it close . 
Jonas had no more idea that Mr Nadgett's eyes were fixed on him , than he had that he was living under the daily inspection and report of a whole order of Jesuits . 
The secret manner of the man disarmed suspicion in this wise suggesting , not that he was watching any one , but that he thought some other man was watching him . 
Paul's Cathedral taking note of what he did , or slowly winding a great net about his feet , as of Nadgett's being engaged in such an occupation . 
Mrs Gamp and Mr Sweedlepipe had many deep discoursings on the subject of this mysterious customer but they usually agreed that he had speculated too much and was keeping out of the way . 
After that , he repeated his visits every day , and had so much writing to do , that he made nothing of emptying a capacious leaden inkstand in two sittings . 
Although he never talked much , still , by being there among the regular customers , he made their acquaintance . 
in his liver , and that he feared he must put himself under the doctor's hands . 
Accordingly , he became Mr Jobling's patient and detailing his symptoms in his slow and secret way , was in and out of that gentleman's room a dozen times a day . 
That done , he shut it immediately with his own hands . 
Mr Bailey , taking up his name without delay , returned with a request that he would follow him into his master's chamber . 
'Well , Mr Nadgett ? Mr Nadgett put his hat upon the ground and coughed . 
'Any news , Mr Nadgett ? 'I think we have some news at last , sir . 
'I am happy to hear it . 
I began to fear you were off the scent , Mr Nadgett . 
'You are truth itself , Mr Nadgett . 
Do you report a great success ? 'That depends upon your judgment and construction of it , was his answer , as he put on his spectacles . 
I am disposed to think it's a good case . 
Will you go into it at once ? 'By all means . 
He then sat down in chair number two , and laid his pocket book , very carefully , on chair number one . 
He then untied the pocket book , and hung the string over the back of chair number one . 
He then drew both the chairs a little nearer Mr Montague , and opening the pocket book spread out its contents . 
'I wish you wouldn't be so fond of making notes , my excellent friend , said Tigg Montague with a ghastly smile . 
'I wish you would consent to give me their purport by word of mouth . 
'I don't like word of mouth , said Mr Nadgett gravely . 
'We never know who's listening . 
The chairman cast his eyes upon it , coldly , and with a smile which did not render any great homage to the slow and methodical habits of his spy . 
'Number Two , said Mr Nadgett , handing him another , and receiving back the first . 
'Read Number Two , sir , if you please . 
There is more interest as you go on . 
, that Mr Nadgett considered it necessary to repeat the request he had already twice preferred with the view to recalling his attention to the point in hand . 
Profiting by the hint , Mr Montague went on with Number Two , and afterwards with Numbers Three , and Four , and Five , and so on . 
Loose straggling scrawls they were , and of very uninviting exterior but they had weighty purpose in them , if the chairman's face were any index to the character of their contents . 
The progress of Mr Nadgett's secret satisfaction arising out of the effect they made , kept pace with the emotions of the reader . 
At first , Mr Nadgett sat with his spectacles low down upon his nose , looking over them at his employer , and nervously rubbing his hands . 
And finally he rose and looked out of the window , where he stood with a triumphant air until Tigg Montague had finished . 
'And this is the last , Mr Nadgett ! said that gentleman , drawing a long breath . 
'That , sir , is the last . 
'You are a wonderful man , Mr Nadgett ! 'I think it is a pretty good case , he returned as he gathered up his papers . 
'It cost some trouble , sir . 
'The trouble shall be well rewarded , Mr Nadgett . 
'There is a deeper impression of Somebody's Hoof here , than I had expected , Mr Nadgett . 
I may congratulate myself upon your being such a good hand at a secret . 
'Oh ! nothing has an interest to me that's not a secret , replied Nadgett , as he tied the string about his pocket book , and put it up . 
'It always takes away any pleasure I may have had in this inquiry even to make it known to you . 
'A most invaluable constitution , Tigg retorted . 
'A great gift for a gentleman employed as you are , Mr Nadgett . 
Much better than discretion though you possess that quality also in an eminent degree . 
I think I heard a double knock . 
Drawing in his head with equal caution , he observed , not altering his voice or manner 'Mr Jonas Chuzzlewit ! 'I thought so , Tigg retorted . 
'Shall I go ? 'I think you had better . 
Stay though ! No ! remain here , Mr Nadgett , if you please . 
It was remarkable how pale and flurried he had become in an instant . 
There was nothing to account for it . 
His eye had fallen on his razors but what of them ! Mr Chuzzlewit was announced . 
Nadgett ! don't you leave us alone together . 
Mind you don't , now ! By the Lord ! he added in a whisper to himself 'We don't know what may happen . 
Saying this , he hurriedly took up a couple of hair brushes , and began to exercise them on his own head , as if his toilet had not been interrupted . 
There he stood , during the whole interview , holding it before the bars , and sometimes , but not often , glancing over his shoulder . 
'My dear Chuzzlewit ! cried Montague , as Jonas entered . 
'You rise with the lark . 
Though you go to bed with the nightingale , you rise with the lark . 
But I am a light sleeper and it's better to be up than lying awake , counting the dismal old church clocks , in bed . 
'A light sleeper ! cried his friend . 
'Now , what is a light sleeper ? I often hear the expression , but upon my life I have not the least conception what a light sleeper is . 
'Hallo ! said Jonas , 'Who's that ? Oh , old what's his name looking as if he wanted to skulk up the chimney . 
'Ha , ha ! I have no doubt he does . 
'Well ! He's not wanted here , I suppose , said Jonas . 
'He may go , mayn't he ? 'Oh , let him stay , let him stay ! said Tigg . 
'He's a mere piece of furniture . 
He has been making his report , and is waiting for further orders . 
'He need , replied Jonas 'for of all the precious old dummies in appearance that I ever saw , he's about the worst . 
He's afraid of me , I think . 
'It's my belief , said Tigg , 'that you are Poison to him . 
Nadgett ! give me that towel ! He had as little occasion for a towel as Jonas had for a start . 
But Nadgett brought it quickly and , having lingered for a moment , fell back upon his old post by the fire . 
'I had oysters for my breakfast . 
Where are they white ? he added , muttering an oath , and rubbing them upon his handkerchief . 
'I don't believe they ARE white . 
'Now I look again , they are not , replied his friend . 
'They are coming right again . 
, the colour of my lips is not material . 
'Quite true , said Tigg . 
'I was only going to say that you are too quick and active for our friend . 
He is too shy to cope with such a man as you , but does his duty well . 
Oh , very well ! But what is a light sleeper ? 'Hang a light sleeper ! exclaimed Jonas pettishly . 
'No , no , interrupted Tigg . 
'A light sleeper ain't a heavy one , said Jonas in his sulky way 'don't sleep much , and don't sleep well , and don't sleep sound . 
'And dreams , said Tigg , 'and cries out in an ugly manner and when the candle burns down in the night , is in an agony and all that sort of thing . 
I see ! They were silent for a little time . 
Then Jonas spoke 'Now we've done with child's talk , I want to have a word with you . 
I want to have a word with you before we meet up yonder to day . 
I am not satisfied with the state of affairs . 
'Not satisfied ! cried Tigg . 
'The money comes in well . 
'The money comes in well enough , retorted Jonas , 'but it don't come out well enough . 
It can't be got at easily enough . 
I haven't sufficient power it is all in your hands . 
Everybody else's rights are my wrongs . 
What's the use of my having a voice if it's always drowned ? I might as well be dumb , and it would be much less aggravating . 
I'm not a going to stand that , you know . 
'No ! said Tigg in an insinuating tone . 
'No ! returned Jonas , 'I'm not indeed . 
I'll play old Gooseberry with the office , and make you glad to buy me out at a good high figure , if you try any of your tricks with me . 
'I give you my honour Montague began . 
You may have all the honour , if you like I'll never bring you to book for that . 
But I'm not a going to stand it , as it is now . 
If you should take it into your honourable head to go abroad with the bank , I don't see much to prevent you . 
Well ! That won't do . 
I've had some very good dinners here , but they'd come too dear on such terms and therefore , that won't do . 
'Was you , by G ? said Jonas , with a short laugh . 
And to suggest , pursued Montague , 'that surely you have friends indeed , I know you have who would answer our purpose admirably , and whom we should be delighted to receive . 
'How kind of you ! You'd be delighted to receive 'em , would you ? said Jonas , bantering . 
'I give you my sacred honour , quite transported . 
As your friends , observe ! 'Exactly , said Jonas 'as my friends , of course . 
You'll be very much delighted when you get 'em , I have no doubt . 
'It will be very much to your advantage , I assure you . 
'And you can tell me how , said Jonas , 'can't you ? 'SHALL I tell you how ? returned the other . 
'I think you had better , said Jonas . 
'Strange things have been done in the Assurance way before now , by strange sorts of men , and I mean to take care of myself . 
'Chuzzlewit ! replied Montague , leaning forward , with his arms upon his knees , and looking full into his face . 
'Strange things have been done , and are done every day not only in our way , but in a variety of other ways and no one suspects them . 
But ours , as you say , my good friend , is a strange way and we strangely happen , sometimes , to come into the knowledge of very strange events . 
He beckoned to Jonas to bring his chair nearer and looking slightly round , as if to remind him of the presence of Nadgett , whispered in his ear . 
From red to white from white to red again from red to yellow then to a cold , dull , awful , sweat bedabbled blue . 
He drew his chair away , and sat a spectacle of terror , misery , and rage . 
He was afraid to speak , or look , or move , or sit still . 
Abject , crouching , and miserable , he was a greater degradation to the form he bore , than if he had been a loathsome wound from head to heel . 
His companion leisurely resumed his dressing , and completed it , glancing sometimes with a smile at the transformation he had effected , but never speaking once . 
'You'll not object , he said , when he was quite equipped , 'to venture further with us , Chuzzlewit , my friend ? His pale lips faintly stammered out a 'No . 
'Well said ! That's like yourself . 
He has money ? 'Yes , he has money . 
'Shall I leave Mr Pecksniff to you ? Will you undertake for Mr Pecksniff . 
'A thousand thanks , replied the other , clapping him upon the shoulder . 
'Shall we walk downstairs ? Mr Nadgett ! Follow us , if you please . 
They went down in that order . 
So far from being despotic , however , there was a coyness about her very way of pouring out the tea , which Tom quite revelled in . 
'Why , said Tom 'this is capital . 
It gives us a new , and quite an uncommon interest in the dinner . 
We put into a lottery for a beefsteak pudding , and it is impossible to say what we may get . 
We may make some wonderful discovery , perhaps , and produce such a dish as never was known before . 
We can't cook it into nothing at all that's a great comfort . 
So if you like to venture , I will . 
'I have not the least doubt , rejoined Tom , 'that it will come out an excellent pudding , or at all events , I am sure that I shall think it so . 
There is naturally something so handy and brisk about you , Ruth , that if you said you could make a bowl of faultless turtle soup , I should believe you . 
She was precisely that sort of person . 
Nobody ought to have been able to resist her coaxing manner and nobody had any business to try . 
Yet she never seemed to know it was her manner at all . 
That was the best of it . 
To see the butcher slap the steak , before he laid it on the block , and give his knife a sharpening , was to forget breakfast instantly . 
It was agreeable , too it really was to see him cut it off , so smooth and juicy . 
It was the triumph of mind over matter quite . 
Perhaps the greenest cabbage leaf ever grown in a garden was wrapped about this steak , before it was delivered over to Tom . 
But the butcher had a sentiment for his business , and knew how to refine upon it . 
and saving in mere household drudgery , they waited on themselves . 
'What are you writing , Tom ? inquired his sister , laying her hand upon his shoulder . 
'You had better do the same for me , Tom , also , said his sister , casting down her eyes . 
'I should dearly like to keep house for you and take care of you always , Tom but we are not rich enough for that . 
'We are not rich , returned Tom , 'certainly and we may be much poorer . 
But we will not part if we can help it . 
I am certain we shall be happier if we can battle it out together . 
Don't you think we shall ? 'Think , Tom ! 'Oh , tut , tut ! interposed Tom , tenderly . 
'No , no I won't , Tom . 
But you can't afford it , dear . 
'We don't know that , said Tom . 
And I am sure we can live contentedly upon a very little if we can only get it . 
'Yes that I am sure we can , Tom . 
'Why , then , said Tom , 'we must try for it . 
My friend , John Westlock , is a capital fellow , and very shrewd and intelligent . 
We'll talk it over with him both of us together . 
You'll like John very much , when you come to know him , I am certain . 
Don't cry , don't cry . 
YOU make a beef steak pudding , indeed ! said Tom , giving her a gentle push . 
'Why , you haven't boldness enough for a dumpling ! 'You WILL call it a pudding , Tom . 
Mind ! I told you not ! 'I may as well call it that , till it proves to be something else , said Tom . 
'Oh , you are going to work in earnest , are you ? Aye , aye ! That she was . 
And in such pleasant earnest , moreover , that Tom's attention wandered from his writing every moment . 
When all the materials were collected she was horrified to find she had no apron on , and so ran UPstairs by way of variety , to fetch it . 
'Tom , she said at last , in high glee . 
Don't you wonder why I butter the inside of the basin ? said his busy little sister . 
'Not more than you do , I dare say , replied Tom , laughing . 
'For I believe you don't know anything about it . 
Tom lined out 'respectable young man , aged thirty five and sat looking on , pen in hand , with one of the most loving smiles imaginable . 
'Where's the pudding ? said Tom . 
For he was cutting his jokes , Tom was . 
'Where ! she answered , holding it up with both hands . 
'Look at it ! 'THAT a pudding ! said Tom . 
'It WILL be , you stupid fellow , when it's covered in , returned his sister . 
Tom started , too , for following her eyes , he saw John Westlock in the room . 
Tom , will you kindly come to my relief ? 'Mr John Westlock , said Tom . 
'I hope that , as the sister of so old a friend , said John , laughing 'you will have the goodness to detach your first impressions of me from my unfortunate entrance . 
'My sister is not indisposed perhaps to say the same to you on her own behalf , retorted Tom . 
'I am delighted to see you , said Tom . 
'I can only think of sitting down on one condition , returned his friend 'and that is , that your sister goes on with the pudding , as if you were still alone . 
'That I am sure she will , said Tom . 
'On one other condition , and that is , that you stay and help us to eat it . 
'I am here much earlier than I intended , Tom but I will tell you , what brings me , and I think I can answer for your being glad to hear it . 
A respectable young man , aged thirty five The beginning of a description of myself . 
'I don't think you will have occasion to finish it , Tom . 
'Friends in London ! echoed Tom . 
'Ah ! said Westlock , 'to be sure . 
'Have YOU any friends in London , Ruth , my dear ! asked Tom . 
'I am very happy to hear that I have , said Tom , 'but it's news to me . 
They must be capital people to keep a secret , John . 
'You shall judge for yourself , returned the other . 
'Seriously , Tom , here is the plain state of the case . 
As I was sitting at breakfast this morning , there comes a knock at my door . 
'On which you cried out , very loud , Come in ! suggested Tom . 
Well ! When he came in , I found he was a stranger a grave , business like , sedate looking , stranger . 
Mr Westlock ? said he . 
That is my name , said I. The favour of a few words with you ? said he . 
Then he resumed 'The pudding having taken a chair , Tom 'What ! cried Tom . 
'No , no , replied John , colouring rather 'a chair . 
'His very words , I assure you . 
I told him I was . 
Did I know where you were at present residing ? Yes . 
He had casually heard , in a roundabout way , that you had left your situation with Mr Pecksniff . 
Was that the fact ? Yes , it was . 
Did you want another ? Yes , you did . 
'Certainly , said Tom , nodding his head . 
'Just what I impressed upon him . 
You may rest assured that I set that point beyond the possibility of any mistake , and gave him distinctly to understand that he might make up his mind about it . 
Then , said he , I think I can accommodate him . 
'Lord bless me ! cried Tom . 
'Ruth , my dear , think I can accommodate him . 
Vacant , and ready for your acceptance . 
I don't know this man from Adam neither does this man know Tom . 
'He can't , said Tom , in great perplexity , 'if he's a Londoner . 
I don't know any one in London . 
'Not at liberty to enter into any explanations ! repeated Tom , drawing a long breath . 
'The Blue Dragon ! repeated Tom , staring alternately at his friend and his sister . 
'Aye , think of that ! He spoke as familiarly of the Blue Dragon , I give you my word , as if he had been Mark Tapley . 
Kept it up there ! So I did . 
'Unaccountable ? his friend repeated . 
'I became afraid of the man . 
Though it was broad day , and bright sunshine , I was positively afraid of him . 
'Mr Fips , said Tom , reading it aloud . 
Austin Friars sounds ghostly , John . 
'Fips don't , I think , was John's reply . 
'But there he lives , Tom , and there he expects us to call this morning . 
And now you know as much of this strange incident as I do , upon my honour . 
What the beef steak pudding would have come to , if it had not been by this time finished , astrology itself could hardly determine . 
'Tom , said Ruth , after a little hesitation , 'perhaps Mr Westlock , in his friendship for you , knows more of this than he chooses to tell . 
'No , indeed ! cried John , eagerly . 
'It is not so , I assure you . 
I cannot take credit to myself , Miss Pinch , for any such thing . 
All that I know , or , so far as I can judge , am likely to know , I have told you . 
'Couldn't you know more , if you thought proper ? said Ruth , scraping the pie board industriously . 
It is very ungenerous in you to be so suspicious of me when I repose implicit faith in you . 
I have unbounded confidence in the pudding , Miss Pinch . 
She laughed at this , but they soon got back into a serious vein , and discussed the subject with profound gravity . 
Tom , being in a great flutter , wished to start for Austin Friars instantly , but they waited nearly an hour , by John's advice , before they departed . 
'Tom , he said , as they were walking along , 'I begin to think you must be somebody's son . 
'I suppose I am , Tom answered in his quiet way . 
'But I mean somebody's of consequence . 
'Bless your heart , replied Tom , 'my poor father was of no consequence , nor my mother either . 
'You remember them perfectly , then ? 'Remember them ? oh dear yes . 
My poor mother was the last . 
She died when Ruth was a mere baby , and then we both became a charge upon the savings of that good old grandmother I used to tell you of . 
You remember ! Oh ! There's nothing romantic in our history , John . 
'Very well , said John in quiet despair . 
'Then there is no way of accounting for my visitor of this morning . 
So we'll not try , Tom . 
FIPS painted on it in characters which were meant to be transparent . 
, had for many years directed its industry into another channel , and regularly tripped up every one of Mr Fips's clients . 
'Dark indeed , John whispered in Tom Pinch's ear . 
'Not a bad place to dispose of a countryman in , I should think , Tom . 
'Walk in , said Mr Fips . 
'I have brought my friend Mr Pinch , sir , said John Westlock . 
'Be pleased to sit , said Mr Fips . 
He looked at Tom Pinch curiously , but with an entire freedom from any such expression as could be reasonably construed into an unusual display of interest . 
John answered in the affirmative . 
'And you think it worth your while , sir , do you ? Mr Fips inquired of Tom . 
'I think it a piece of great good fortune , sir , said Tom . 
'I am exceedingly obliged to you for the offer . 
'Not to me , said Mr Fips . 
'To your friend , sir , then , said Tom . 
'To the gentleman with whom I am to engage , and whose confidence I shall endeavour to deserve . 
When he knows me better , sir , I hope he will not lose his good opinion of me . 
He will find me punctual and vigilant , and anxious to do what is right . 
That I think I can answer for , and so , looking towards him , 'can Mr Westlock . 
'Most assuredly , said John . 
Mr Fips appeared to have some little difficulty in resuming the conversation . 
To relieve himself , he took up the wafer stamp , and began stamping capital F's all over his legs . 
'The fact is , said Mr Fips , 'that my friend is not , at this present moment , in town . 
Tom's countenance fell for he thought this equivalent to telling him that his appearance did not answer and that Fips must look out for somebody else . 
'When do you think he will be in town , sir ? he asked . 
'I can't say it's impossible to tell . 
I really have no idea . 
Poor Tom inclined his head deferentially , but appeared to doubt that . 
'I say , repeated Mr Fips , 'that I don't know it's a matter of much consequence . 
The business lies entirely between yourself and me , Mr Pinch . 
With reference to your duties , I can set you going and with reference to your salary , I can pay it . 
As Mr Fips said this , he made up his face as if he were going to whistle . 
'You are very good , said Tom , whose countenance was now suffused with pleasure 'and nothing can be more satisfactory or straightforward . 
My attendance will be required 'From half past nine to four o'clock or so , I should say , interrupted Mr Fips . 
'I did not mean the hours of attendance , retorted Tom , 'which are light and easy , I am sure but the place . 
'Oh , the place ! The place is in the Temple . 
'Perhaps , said Mr Fips , 'you would like to see the place ? 'Oh , dear ! cried Tom . 
'I shall only be too glad to consider myself engaged , if you will allow me without any further reference to the place . 
'Good , said Mr Fips , rising . 
'Then I will show you the place and you can begin your attendance to morrow morning . 
In an hour , therefore , I shall see you . 
You too , Mr Westlock ? Very good . 
Take care how you go . 
With this remark , which seemed superfluous , he shut them out upon the staircase , and they groped their way into the street again . 
After looking at John Westlock's chambers , and devoting a few spare minutes to the Boar's Head , they issued forth again to the place of meeting . 
The time agreed upon had not quite come but Mr Fips was already at the Temple Gate , and expressed his satisfaction at their punctuality . 
'You had better have a little plug made , he said , looking round at Tom , after blowing a shrill whistle into the barrel of the key . 
'It's the only way of preventing them from getting stopped up . 
You'll find the lock go the better , too , I dare say , for a little oil . 
Tom thanked him but was too much occupied with his own speculations , and John Westlock's looks , to be very talkative . 
In the meantime Mr Fips opened the door , which yielded to his hand very unwillingly , and with a horribly discordant sound . 
He took the key out , when he had done so , and gave it to Tom . 
'Aye , aye ! said Mr Fips . 
'The dust lies rather thick here . 
Mr Fips might have gone so far as to say , very thick . 
Dust was the only thing in the place that had any motion about it . 
There were two rooms on that floor and in the first or outer one a narrow staircase , leading to two more above . 
These last were fitted up as bed chambers . 
Movables of every kind lay strewn about , without the least attempt at order , and were intermixed with boxes , hampers , and all sorts of lumber . 
To these Mr Fips called Tom's attention . 
'Before anything else can be done , we must have them put in order , catalogued , and ranged upon the book shelves , Mr Pinch . 
That will do to begin with , I think , sir . 
Tom rubbed his hands in the pleasant anticipation of a task so congenial to his taste , and said 'An occupation full of interest for me , I assure you . 
It will occupy me , perhaps , until Mr. 'Until Mr. repeated Fips as much as to ask Tom what he was stopping for . 
'I forgot that you had not mentioned the gentleman's name , said Tom . 
'Oh ! cried Mr Fips , pulling on his glove , 'didn't I ? No , by the bye , I don't think I did . 
Ah ! I dare say he'll be here soon . 
You will get on very well together , I have no doubt . 
I wish you success I am sure . 
You won't forget to shut the door ? It'll lock of itself if you slam it . 
Half past nine , you know . 
'Why , he's gone ! cried Tom . 
But no scrap or shred of information could they find . 
'After all , Tom , I begin to think it lies no deeper than this . 
'But why in his own whimsical manner ? asked Tom . 
readily , and said he had no doubt of it . 
As he had not , Tom drew down the window sash , and folded the shutter and they left the rooms . 
He closed the door heavily , as Mr Fips had desired him tried it , found it all safe , and put the key in his pocket . 
They made a pretty wide circuit in going back to Islington , as they had time to spare , and Tom was never tired of looking about him . 
There it was and , being there , nothing else would have done as well . 
Ruth said , 'Oh ! indeed ! She didn't say anything else . 
It is astonishing how much three people may find to talk about . 
They scarcely left off talking once . 
It seemed to Tom , every morning , that he approached this ghostly mist , and became enveloped in it , by the easiest succession of degrees imaginable . 
Passing from the roar and rattle of the streets into the quiet court yards of the Temple , was the first preparation . 
Every day brought one recurring , never failing source of speculation . 
, it might become not absolutely lunatic to suspect Mr Pecksniff of anything so monstrous . 
In short he laughed the idea down completely and Tom , abandoning it , was thrown upon his beam ends again , for some other solution . 
, he led a happy , quiet , studious kind of life , after his own heart . 
He sat with the outer door wide open , at all times , that he might hear the footsteps as they entered , and turned off into the chambers on the lower floor . 
But as Mr Fips said 'Very good , in reply , and nothing more , Tom prompted him 'Not on any account , repeated Tom . 
Mr Fips repeated 'Very good . 
'You were going to say' Tom hinted . 
'Oh dear no ! cried Fips . 
However , seeing Tom confused , he added , 'I mean that you needn't mention any particulars about your place of employment , to people generally . 
You'll find it better not . 
'I have not had the pleasure of seeing my employer yet , sir , observed Tom , putting his week's salary in his pocket . 
'Haven't you ? said Fips . 
'No , I don't suppose you have though . 
'I should like to thank him , and to know that what I have done so far , is done to his satisfaction , faltered Tom . 
'Quite right , said Mr Fips , with a yawn . 
Tom hastily resolved to try him on another tack . 
'I shall soon have finished with the books , he said . 
'I hope that will not terminate my engagement , sir , or render me useless ? 'Oh dear no ! retorted Fips . 
'Plenty to do plen ty to do ! Be careful how you go . 
This was the very utmost extent of information Tom could ever get out of HIM . 
So it was dark enough in all conscience and if Mr Fips expressed himself with a double meaning , he had good reason for doing so . 
The way it came about was this . 
In most of these morning excursions Ruth accompanied him . 
at a very early hour , the habits of the people of the house in which they lodged corresponded with their own . 
Thus they had often finished their breakfast , and were out in the summer air , by seven o'clock . 
After a two hours' stroll they parted at some convenient point Tom going to the Temple , and his sister returning home , as methodically as you please . 
Many a pleasant stroll among the waggon loads of fragrant hay , beneath which dogs and tired waggoners lay fast asleep , oblivious of the pieman and the public house . 
But never half so good a stroll as down among the steamboats on a bright morning . 
Little steam boats dashed up and down the stream incessantly . 
In the midst of all this turmoil there was an incessant roar from every packet's funnel , which quite expressed and carried out the uppermost emotion of the scene . 
This tremendous instrument had a hooked handle and its vicinity was first made known to him by a painful pressure on the windpipe , consequent upon its having caught him round the throat . 
'What a very ill natured person you must be ! said Tom . 
Being a fat little woman , too , she was in a state of great exhaustion and intense heat . 
'We'll make room for you if we can . 
Don't be so ill tempered . 
'And which of all them smoking monsters is the Ankworks boat , I wonder . 
Goodness me ! cried Mrs Gamp . 
'What boat did you want ? asked Ruth . 
'The Ankworks package , Mrs Gamp replied . 
'I will not deceive you , my sweet . 
Why should I ? 'That is the Antwerp packet in the middle , said Ruth . 
'And I wish it was in Jonadge's belly , I do , cried Mrs Gamp appearing to confound the prophet with the whale in this miraculous aspiration . 
Our calcilations , ma'am , I says , respectin' wot the number of a family will be , comes most times within one , and oftener than you would suppoge , exact . 
Sairey , says Mrs Harris , in a awful way , Tell me wot is my indiwidgle number . 
No , Mrs Harris , I says to her , ex cuge me , if you please . 
My own , I says , has fallen out of three pair backs , and had damp doorsteps settled on their lungs , and one was turned up smilin' in a bedstead unbeknown . 
Therefore , ma'am , I says , seek not to proticipate , but take 'em as they come and as they go . 
Mine , says Mrs Gamp , 'mine is all gone , my dear young chick . 
When she had delivered this oration , Mrs Gamp leaned her chin upon the cool iron again and looking intently at the Antwerp packet , shook her head and groaned . 
'My dear , returned that lady , dropping her voice , 'you are single , ain't you ? Ruth laughed blushed , and said 'Yes . 
, than all the other frights that ever was took . 
could not help saying something to her in reply . 
'Pray , which is the lady , she inquired , 'in whom you are so much interested ? 'There ! groaned Mrs Gamp . 
'There she goes ! A crossin' the little wooden bridge at this minute . 
She's a slippin' on a bit of orangepeel ! tightly clutching her umbrella . 
'What a turn it give me . 
'He's good call to be ashamed of himself . 
Did you see him a jerking of her wrist , then ? 'He seems to be hasty with her , indeed . 
'Now he's a taking of her down into the close cabin ! said Mrs Gamp , impatiently . 
'What's the man about ! The deuce is in him , I think . 
Tom had not heard this little dialogue for his attention had been engaged in an unexpected manner . 
'I beg your pardon , Mr Pinch , he said in his ear . 
'I am rather infirm , and out of breath , and my eyes are not very good . 
I am not as young as I was , sir . 
'A gentleman in a large cloak ! said Tom , 'and a lady in a black shawl ! Let me see ! 'Yes , yes ! replied the other , with keen impatience . 
'A gentleman muffled up from head to foot strangely muffled up for such a morning as this like an invalid , with his hand to his face at this minute , perhaps . 
No , no , no ! not there , he added , following Tom's gaze 'the other way in that direction down yonder . 
Again he indicated , but this time in his hurry , with his outstretched finger , the very spot on which the progress of these persons was checked at that moment . 
There's a lady in a red shawl over there ! 'No , no , no ! cried his landlord , pointing eagerly again , 'not there . 
The other way the other way . 
Look at the cabin steps . 
They must be near the cabin steps . 
Do you see the cabin steps ? There's the bell ringing already ! DO you see the steps ? 'Stay ! said Tom , 'you're right . 
Look ! there they go now . 
'Will you do me a kindness , sir , a great kindness ? Will you put that letter in his hand ? Only give him that ! He expects it . 
To hesitate in the performance of a good natured or compassionate office was not in Tom's way . 
He took the letter whispered Ruth to wait till he returned , which would be immediately and ran down the steps with all the expedition he could make . 
As Tom advanced to give him the letter , he started , hearing footsteps , and turned round . 
What was Tom's astonishment to find in him the man with whom he had had the conflict in the field poor Mercy's husband . 
Jonas ! Tom understood him to say , what the devil did he want but it was not easy to make out what he said he spoke so indistinctly . 
'I want nothing with you for myself , said Tom 'I was asked , a moment since , to give you this letter . 
You were pointed out to me , but I didn't know you in your strange dress . 
Take it ! He did so , opened it , and read the writing on the inside . 
The contents were evidently very brief not more perhaps than one line but they struck upon him like a stone from a sling . 
He reeled back as he read . 
His emotion was so different from any Tom had ever seen before that he stopped involuntarily . 
Where's that woman ! Come back come back here . 
He threw open another door as he spoke , and dragged , rather than led , her forth . 
'Where are we going ? What is the matter ? 'We are going back , said Jonas . 
'I have changed my mind . 
Don't question me , or I shall be the death of you , or some one else . 
Stop there ! Stop ! We're for the shore . 
Do you hear ? We're for the shore ! He turned , even in the madness of his hurry , and scowling darkly back at Tom , shook his clenched hand at him . 
There are not many human faces capable of the expression with which he accompanied that gesture . 
He dragged her up , and Tom followed them . 
He has a gentleman of foreign appearance , with a black moustache and whiskers and addressed him with a polite composure , strangely different from his own distracted and desperate manner . 
'Chuzzlewit , my good fellow ! said the gentleman , raising his hat in compliment to Mrs Chuzzlewit , 'I ask your pardon twenty thousand times . 
but the beehive , my dear friend , the beehive will you introduce me ? 'This is Mr Montague , said Jonas , whom the words appeared to choke . 
You projected a short little continental trip , my dear friend , of course ? Jonas maintained a dogged silence . 
'May I die , cried Montague , 'but I am shocked ! Upon my soul I am shocked . 
But that confounded beehive of ours in the city must be paramount to every other consideration , when there is honey to be made and that is my best excuse . 
'Ecod , there are enough of you . 
'I hope , sir , returned Mrs Gamp , dropping an indignant curtsey , 'as no bones is broke by me and Mrs Harris a walkin' down upon a public wharf . 
No , Sairey , Mrs Harris says , contrairy quite . 
And well she knows it too . 
I am but a poor woman , but I've been sought after , sir , though you may not think it . 
I've been knocked up at all hours of the night , and warned out by a many landlords , in consequence of being mistook for Fire . 
I goes out workin' for my bread , 'tis true , but I maintains my independency , with your kind leave , and which I will till death . 
My earnins is not great , sir , but I will not be impoged upon . 
'As you ARE here , he said , 'you had better see to her , and take her home . 
He said nothing more but looked at Montague as if to give him notice that he was ready to attend him . 
'I am sorry to take you away , said Montague . 
Jonas gave him a sinister look , which long lived in Tom's memory , and which he often recalled afterwards . 
'I am , upon my life , said Montague . 
'Why did you make it necessary ? With the same dark glance as before , Jonas replied , after a moment's silence 'The necessity is none of my making . 
You have brought it about yourself . 
He said even this as if he were bound , and in the other's power , but had a sullen and suppressed devil within him , which he could not quite resist . 
They got into a handsome cabriolet which was waiting for them and drove away . 
No one had noticed him after they had left the packet . 
He had stood behind Jonas , and so near him , that he could not help hearing all that passed . 
He had stood there , with his sister on his arm , expecting and hoping to have an opportunity of explaining his strange share in this yet stranger business . 
But Jonas had not raised his eyes from the ground no one else had even looked towards him and before he could resolve on any course of action , they were all gone . 
He gazed round for his landlord . 
But he had done that more than once already , and no such man was to be seen . 
He was still pursuing this search with his eyes , when he saw a hand beckoning to him from a hackney coach and hurrying towards it , found it was Merry's . 
She addressed him hurriedly , but bent out of the window , that she might not be overheard by her companion , Mrs Gamp . 
'What is it ? she said . 
But I am far more ignorant and weak than you . 
SHE was gone now and Ruth and he were left to walk away , and wonder . 
It could not have been for pleasure he never took pleasure . 
No. He must have had some business there . 
Not prepossessing in appearance at the best of times , it may be readily supposed that he was not so now . 
The chairman followed him and closing the board room door as soon as they had entered , threw himself upon a sofa . 
Jonas stood before the window , looking down into the street and leaned against the sash , resting his head upon his arms . 
'This is not handsome , Chuzzlewit ! said Montague at length . 
'Not handsome upon my soul ! 'What would you have me do ? he answered , looking round abruptly 'What do you expect ? 'Confidence , my good fellow . 
Some confidence ! said Montague in an injured tone . 
'Ecod ! You show great confidence in me , retorted Jonas . 
'Don't you ? 'Do I not ? said his companion , raising his head , and looking at him , but he had turned again . 
'You were wise , rejoined his friend . 
Jonas stood quite silent still looking down into the street , and resting his head upon his arms . 
'Now , Chuzzlewit , said Montague , 'notwithstanding what has passed I will be plain with you . 
Are you attending to me there ? I only see your back . 
Go on ! 'I say that notwithstanding what has passed , I will be plain with you . 
And I have told you once I heard you say it . 
'You are a little chafed , but I can make allowance for that , and am , fortunately , myself in the very best of tempers . 
Now , let us see how circumstances stand . 
'Well , well ! said Montague . 
'Judicious ! Quite correct ! My discoveries being published , would be like many other men's discoveries in this honest world of no further use to me . 
You see , Chuzzlewit , how ingenuous and frank I am in showing you the weakness of my own position ! To return . 
Perhaps there is something in it perhaps there is nothing . 
I have my knowledge and opinion on the subject . 
We will not discuss the question . 
But , my good fellow , you have been weak what I wish to point out to you is , that you have been weak . 
, but my account does not lie in probing it , or using it against you . 
'What do you call using it against me ? asked Jonas , who had not yet changed his attitude . 
'Oh ! said Montague , with a laugh . 
'We'll not enter into that . 
'Using it to make a beggar of me . 
Is that the use you mean ? 'No . 
'Ecod , muttered Jonas , bitterly . 
'That's the use in which your account DOES lie . 
You speak the truth there . 
a little more with us , certainly , and to keep quiet , said Montague . 
'You promised me you would and you must . 
I say it plainly , Chuzzlewit , you MUST . 
I want you , besides , to act as a decoy in a case I have already told you of . 
You don't mind that , I know . 
and could bear any loss of his with pious fortitude . 
Ha , ha , ha ! You have tried to escape from the first consequence . 
You cannot escape it , I assure you . 
I have shown you that to day . 
Now , I am not a moral man , you know . 
I am not at all singular in that infirmity . 
Everybody profits by the indiscretion of his neighbour and the people in the best repute , the most . 
Why do you give me this trouble ? It must come to a friendly agreement , or an unfriendly crash . 
If the former , you are very little hurt . 
If the latter well ! you know best what is likely to happen then . 
Jonas left the window , and walked up close to him . 
Just as a man in a state of conscious drunkenness might be . 
'Lying is of no use now , he said . 
'I DID think of getting away this morning , and making better terms with you from a distance . 
'To be sure ! to be sure ! replied Montague . 
I foresaw that , and provided against it . 
But I am afraid I am interrupting you . 
'How the devil , pursued Jonas , with a still greater effort , 'you made choice of your messenger , and where you found him , I'll not ask you . 
I owed him one good turn before to day . 
If he had raised his eyes to his companion's face , he would have seen that Montague was evidently unable to comprehend his meaning . 
It might have struck a close observer that this fixed and steady glance of Jonas's was a part of the alteration which had taken place in his demeanour . 
Montague was quick in his rejoinder , though he made it at a venture . 
There was no difference of opinion between him and his friend on THAT point . 
'Your great discovery , Jonas proceeded , with a savage sneer that got the better of him for the moment , 'may be true , and may be false . 
Whichever it is , I dare say I'm no worse than other men . 
'Not a bit , said Tigg . 
We're all alike or nearly so . 
'I want to know this , Jonas went on to say 'is it your own ? You'll not wonder at my asking the question . 
'My own ! repeated Montague . 
'Aye ! returned the other , gruffly . 
'Is it known to anybody else ? Come ! Don't waver about that . 
'No ! said Montague , without the smallest hesitation . 
'What would it be worth , do you think , unless I had the keeping of it ? Now , for the first time , Jonas looked at him . 
After a pause , he put out his hand , and said , with a laugh 'Come ! make things easy to me , and I'm yours . 
I don't know that I may not be better off here , after all , than if I had gone away this morning . 
But here I am , and here I'll stay now . 
'He cannot be enticed too soon . 
'Ecod ! cried Jonas , with a wild laugh . 
'There's some fun in catching that old hypocrite . 
'Come with me , cried Jonas . 
As I can't take your lodgings or your dinners down , I must take you . 
Will you come to night ? His friend appeared to hesitate and neither to have anticipated this proposal , nor to relish it very much . 
'We can concert our plans upon the road , said Jonas . 
'We must not go direct to him , but cross over from some other place , and turn out of our way to see him . 
I may not want to introduce you , but I must have you on the spot . 
I know the man , I tell you . 
'But what if the man knows me ? said Montague , shrugging his shoulders . 
'He know ! cried Jonas . 
'Don't you run that risk with fifty men a day ! Would your father know you ? Did I know you ? Ecod ! You were another figure when I saw you first . 
You've acted the gentleman so seriously since , that you've taken in yourself . 
If he should know you , what does it matter ? Such a change is a proof of your success . 
You know that , or you would not have made yourself known to me . 
Will you come ? 'My good fellow , said Montague , still hesitating , 'I can trust you alone . 
'Trust me ! Ecod , you may trust me now , far enough . 
I'll try to go away no more no more ! He stopped , and added in a more sober tone , 'I can't get on without you . 
Will you come ? 'I will , said Montague , 'if that's your opinion . 
And they shook hands upon it . 
Most unusual with him at any period most inconsistent with his temper and constitution especially unnatural it would appear in one so darkly circumstanced it abided by him . 
It was not like the effect of wine , or any ardent drink , for he was perfectly coherent . 
Deciding , after some discussion , to travel at night , in order that the day's business might not be broken in upon , they took counsel together in reference to the means . 
Mr Montague being much engaged in the course of the day , Jonas bestowed his spirits chiefly on the doctor , with whom he lunched in the medical officer's own room . 
Mr Nadgett slyly answered , 'No , but he believed it must be his way as he had been charged with much the same kind of thing before . 
Mr Montague was listening to , or , to speak with greater elegance , he overheard , this dialogue . 
As soon as Jonas was gone he beckoned Nadgett to him with the feather of his pen , and whispered in his ear . 
'Who gave him my letter this morning ? 'My lodger , sir , said Nadgett , behind the palm of his hand . 
'How came that about ? 'I found him on the wharf , sir . 
Being so much hurried , and you not arrived , it was necessary to do something . 
It fortunately occurred to me , that if I gave it him myself I could be of no further use . 
I should have been blown upon immediately . 
'Mr Nadgett , you are a jewel , said Montague , patting him on the back . 
'What's your lodger's name ? 'Pinch , sir . 
Montague reflected for a little while , and then asked 'From the country , do you know ? 'From Wiltshire , sir , he told me . 
They parted without another word . 
It was advisable , he said , in two points of view First , as being healthy in itself . 
Secondly as being the better preparation for dinner . 
It must be in admirable condition , sir perfect chronometer work . 
Otherwise your spirits could not be so remarkable . 
Your bosom's lord sits lightly on its throne , Mr Chuzzlewit , as what's his name says in the play . 
I wish he said it in a play which did anything like common justice to our profession , by the bye . 
There is an apothecary in that drama , sir , which is a low thing vulgar , sir out of nature altogether . 
Jonas not being in a condition to pursue the subject , took up a case of lancets that was lying on the table , and opened it . 
'Ah ! said the doctor , leaning back in his chair , 'I always take 'em out of my pocket before I eat . 
My pockets are rather tight . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Jonas had opened one of the shining little instruments and was scrutinizing it with a look as sharp and eager as its own bright edge . 
Good steel ! Eh ! 'Ye es , replied the doctor , with the faltering modesty of ownership . 
'One might open a vein pretty dexterously with that , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'It has opened a good many in its time , I suppose ? said Jonas looking at it with a growing interest . 
'Not a few , my dear sir , not a few . 
'In a pretty good practice , repeated the doctor , putting another glass of wine to his lips . 
'Now , could you cut a man's throat with such a thing as this ? demanded Jonas . 
'Oh certainly , certainly , if you took him in the right place , returned the doctor . 
'It all depends upon that . 
'Where you have your hand now , hey ? cried Jonas , bending forward to look at it . 
'Yes , said the doctor 'that's the jugular . 
Jonas , in his vivacity , made a sudden sawing in the air , so close behind the doctor's jugular that he turned quite red . 
burst into a loud discordant laugh . 
'No , no , said the doctor , shaking his head 'edge tools , edge tools never play with 'em . 
A very remarkable instance of the skillful use of edge tools , by the way , occurs to me at this moment . 
It was a case of murder . 
I am afraid it was a case of murder , committed by a member of our profession it was so artistically done . 
'How was that ? 'Why , sir , returned Jobling , 'the thing lies in a nutshell . 
Upon his waistcoat there was one solitary drop of blood . 
He was dead and cold and had been murdered , sir . 
'Only one drop of blood ! said Jonas . 
'Sir , that man , replied the doctor , 'had been stabbed to the heart . 
Had been stabbed to the heart with such dexterity , sir , that he had died instantly , and had bled internally . 
'Exactly so , replied the doctor . 
'It was quite an operation in its way , and very neat . 
The medical friend never turned up and , as I tell you , he had the credit of it . 
Whether he did it or not I can't say . 
The bottle being emptied and the story done , Jonas was in precisely the same boisterous and unusual state as when they had sat down . 
If , as Jobling theorized , his good digestion were the cause , he must have been a very ostrich . 
At dinner it was just the same and after dinner too though wine was drunk in abundance , and various rich meats eaten . 
At nine o'clock it was still the same . 
'To bed , sir ! I'm a going , too , said Bailey . 
He alighted quickly , and walked back into the hall , where Montague was lighting a cigar conducting Mr Bailey with him , by the collar . 
'You are not a going to take this monkey of a boy , are you ? 'Yes , said Montague . 
He gave the boy a shake , and threw him roughly aside . 
Mr Bailey climbed into the rumble . 
'It will be a stormy night ! exclaimed the doctor , as they started . 
CHAPTER FORTY TWO CONTINUATION OF THE ENTERPRISE OF MR JONAS AND HIS FRIEND The doctor's prognostication in reference to the weather was speedily verified . 
He used this principle in Medicine with too much success to be unmindful of it in his commonest transactions . 
These had been advancing steadily and slowly , but they were now motionless , or nearly so . 
And now a very few large drops of rain began to fall , and thunder rumbled in the distance . 
The front glasses were down and they sat looking silently out upon the gloomy scene before them . 
They were clear of London , or as clear of it as travellers can be whose way lies on the Western Road , within a stage of that enormous city . 
Occasionally they encountered a foot passenger , hurrying to the nearest place of shelter or some unwieldy cart proceeding onward at a heavy trot , with the same end in view . 
It may appear strange that this should have disturbed Jonas , or rendered him uneasy but it did . 
After muttering to himself , and often changing his position , he drew up the blind on his side of the carriage , and turned his shoulder sulkily towards it . 
But he neither looked at his companion , nor broke the silence which prevailed between them , and which had fallen so suddenly upon himself , by addressing a word to him . 
The thunder rolled , the lightning flashed the rain poured down like Heaven's wrath . 
Surrounded at one moment by intolerable light , and at the next by pitchy darkness , they still pressed forward on their journey . 
Even when they arrived at the end of the stage , and might have tarried , they did not but ordered horses out immediately . 
Nor had this any reference to some five minutes' lull , which at that time seemed to promise a cessation of the storm . 
They held their course as if they were impelled and driven by its fury . 
Although they had not exchanged a dozen words , and might have tarried very well , they seemed to feel , by joint consent , that onward they must go . 
He thought he saw Jonas with his hand lifted , and the bottle clenched in it like a hammer , making as if he would aim a blow at his head . 
an expression in his face a combination of the unnatural excitement he had shown all day , with a wild hatred and fear which might have rendered a wolf a less terrible companion . 
He uttered an involuntary exclamation , and called to the driver , who brought his horses to a stop with all speed . 
'What's the matter ? said Jonas . 
He uncorked the bottle with the help of his teeth and putting it to his lips , took a long draught . 
'I wish we had never started on this journey . 
This is not , said Montague , recoiling instinctively , and speaking in a voice that betrayed his agitation 'this is not a night to travel in . 
'Ecod ! you're right there , returned Jonas , 'and we shouldn't be out in it but for you . 
If you hadn't kept me waiting all day , we might have been at Salisbury by this time snug abed and fast asleep . 
, that the boy was drenched to the skin . 
'Serve him right , said Jonas . 
'Oh ! thankee ! said Jonas . 
'We don't want any damp boys here especially a young imp like him . 
Let him be where he is . 
He ain't afraid of a little thunder and lightning , I dare say whoever else is . 
We had better have HIM inside perhaps , he muttered with a laugh 'and the horses ! 'Don't go too fast , cried Montague to the postillion 'and take care how you go . 
You were nearly in the ditch when I called to you . 
This was not true and Jonas bluntly said so , as they moved forward again . 
Montague took little or no heed of what he said , but repeated that it was not a night for travelling , and showed himself , both then and afterwards , unusually anxious . 
From this time Jonas recovered his former spirits , if such a term may be employed to express the state in which he had left the city . 
'What of that ? It don't change you , nor me , nor our affairs . 
That must be a precious old song , he added with an oath , as he stopped short in a kind of wonder at himself . 
'I haven't heard it since I was a boy , and how it comes into my head now , unless the lightning put it there , I don't know . 
Can't hurt the dead ! No , no . 
And won't save the head ! No , no . 
Instead of Jonas being his tool and instrument , their places seemed to be reversed . 
Being quick enough , in reference to such subjects of contemplation , he was not long in taking this argument into account and giving it its full weight . 
But still , he felt a vague sense of alarm , and was depressed and uneasy . 
'If he could kill me with a wish , thought the swindler , 'I should not live long . 
As the night wore on , the thunder died away , but still rolled gloomily and mournfully in the distance . 
The lightning too , though now comparatively harmless , was yet bright and frequent . 
The rain was quite as violent as it had ever been . 
It was their ill fortune , at about the time of dawn and in the last stage of their journey , to have a restive pair of horses . 
The travellers had opened the carriage door , and had either jumped or fallen out . 
Jonas was the first to stagger to his feet . 
He felt sick and weak , and very giddy , and reeling to a five barred gate , stood holding by it looking drowsily about as the whole landscape swam before his eyes . 
But , by degrees , he grew more conscious , and presently observed that Montague was lying senseless in the road , within a few feet of the horses . 
As he did this , he fought and contended with them like a man possessed , making them wilder by his cries . 
'Hiilo ! Hillo ! cried Jonas . 
'For God's sake ! cried the driver . 
'The gentleman in the road he'll be killed ! The same shouts and the same struggles were his only answer . 
But the man darting in at the peril of his own life , saved Montague's , by dragging him through the mire and water out of the reach of present harm . 
The postillion and Jonas had now leisure to look at each other , which they had not had yet . 
'Presence of mind , presence of mind ! cried Jonas , throwing up his hands wildly . 
'What would you have done without me ? 'The other gentleman would have done badly without ME , returned the man , shaking his head . 
'You should have moved him first . 
I gave him up for dead . 
'Presence of mind , you croaker , presence of mind' cried Jonas with a harsh loud laugh . 
'Was he struck , do you think ? They both turned to look at him . 
Jonas muttered something to himself , when he saw him sitting up beneath the hedge , looking vacantly around . 
'What's the matter ? asked Montague . 
'Is anybody hurt ? 'Ecod ! said Jonas , 'it don't seem so . 
There are no bones broken , after all . 
They raised him , and he tried to walk . 
He was a good deal shaken , and trembled very much . 
But with the exception of a few cuts and bruises this was all the damage he had sustained . 
'Cuts and bruises , eh ? said Jonas . 
Jonas replied by advising him with a curse to hold his tongue , and to go somewhere , whither he was not very likely to go of his own accord . 
But Montague , who had listened eagerly to every word , himself diverted the subject , by exclaiming 'Where's the boy ? 'Ecod ! I forgot that monkey , said Jonas . 
'What's become of him ? A very brief search settled that question . 
The unfortunate Mr Bailey had been thrown sheer over the hedge or the five barred gate and was lying in the neighbouring field , to all appearance dead . 
'When I said to night , that I wished I had never started on this journey , cried his master , 'I knew it was an ill fated one . 
Look at this boy ! 'Is that all ? growled Jonas . 
'If you call THAT a sign of it 'Why , what should I call a sign of it ? asked Montague , hurriedly . 
Hold up there ! But the boy was past holding up , or being held up , or giving any other sign of life than a faint and fitful beating of the heart . 
'You'd get there in a few minutes , and be able to send assistance to meet us , if you went forward , post boy , said Jonas . 
'Trot on ! 'No , no , cried Montague 'we'll keep together . 
'Why , what a chicken you are ! You are not afraid of being robbed are you ? said Jonas . 
'I am not afraid of anything , replied the other , whose looks and manner were in flat contradiction to his words . 
'You were mighty anxious about the boy , a minute ago , said Jonas . 
'I suppose you know that he may die in the meantime ? 'Aye , aye . 
As it was clear that he was not to be moved from this determination , Jonas made no other rejoinder than such as his face expressed and they proceeded in company . 
, sent out messengers to see to the carriage and its contents , and roused a surgeon from his bed to tend the chief sufferer . 
All the service he could render , he rendered promptly and skillfully . 
But he gave it as his opinion that the boy was labouring under a severe concussion of the brain , and that Mr Bailey's mortal course was run . 
But it was not difficult to see that , for some unexpressed reason best appreciated by himself , he attached a strange value to the company and presence of this mere child . 
But I'll return home alone . 
I am resolved upon that . 
Chuzzlewit shall go forward first , and I will follow in my own time . 
I'll have no more of this , he added , wiping his damp forehead . 
, he double locked the door by which he had entered , and retired to rest . 
There was another door in the room , but it was locked on the outer side and with what place it communicated , he knew not . 
His fears or evil conscience reproduced this door in all his dreams . 
All this time the creature on the other side whether it was in the shape of man , or beast , he neither knew nor sought to know was gaining on them . 
But his greatest terror was when the man with the bloody smear upon his head demanded of him if he knew this creatures name , and said that he would whisper it . 
At this the dreamer fell upon his knees , his whole blood thrilling with inexplicable fear , and held his ears . 
Awoke to find Jonas standing at his bedside watching him . 
And that very door wide open . 
As their eyes met , Jonas retreated a few paces , and Montague sprang out of bed . 
'You're all alive this morning . 
'Alive ! the other stammered , as he pulled the bell rope violently . 
No one told me last night not to open it . 
I thought it led into a passage , and was coming out to order breakfast . 
There's there's no bell in my room . 
'I couldn't find it , then , said Jonas 'it's all the same . 
Shall I order breakfast ? Montague answered in the affirmative . 
When Jonas had retired , whistling , through his own room , he opened the door of communication , to take out the key and fasten it on the inner side . 
But it was taken out already . 
He dragged a table against the door , and sat down to collect himself , as if his dreams still had some influence upon his mind . 
'An evil journey , he repeated several times . 
But I'll travel home alone . 
I'll have no more of this . 
His presentiment , or superstition , that it was an evil journey , did not at all deter him from doing the evil for which the journey was undertaken . 
But he still muttered to himself at intervals , for all that 'I'll travel home alone ! CHAPTER FORTY THREE HAS AN INFLUENCE ON THE FORTUNES OF SEVERAL PEOPLE . 
Her solitary condition , or the bad weather , or both united , made Mrs Lupin thoughtful , not to say sorrowful . 
As a mark of her respect for the lightning , Mrs Lupin had removed her candle to the chimney piece . 
He had some reason to be gruff , for if he had passed the day in a waterfall , he could scarcely have been wetter than he was . 
'A bad night ! observed the hostess cheerfully . 
The traveller shook himself like a Newfoundland dog , and said it was , rather . 
'There's a fire in the kitchen , said Mrs Lupin , 'and very good company there . 
Hadn't you better go and dry yourself ? 'No , thankee , said the man , glancing towards the kitchen as he spoke he seemed to know the way . 
'It's enough to give you your death of cold , observed the hostess . 
'I don't take my death easy , returned the traveller 'or I should most likely have took it afore to night . 
Your health , ma'am ! Mrs Lupin thanked him but in the act of lifting the tankard to his mouth , he changed his mind , and put it down again . 
'Why , then , you've got a sort of a relation of mine here , ma'am , said the traveller 'a young man of the name of Tapley . 
What ! Mark , my boy ! apostrophizing the premises , 'have I come upon you at last , old buck ! This was touching Mrs Lupin on a tender point . 
But it's many and many a long day and month since he left here and England . 
'Where did he go , ma'am ? asked the traveller , in a gentler voice . 
'He went , said Mrs Lupin , with increased distress , 'to America . 
I didn't think you could speak gruff to me , Mark , at first coming back . 
'Fifteen more ! said Mr Tapley . 
'How handsome and how young you look ! Six more ! The last half dozen warn't a fair one , and must be done over again . 
Lord bless you , what a treat it is to see you ! One more ! Well , I never was so jolly . 
The pause reminded him of other duties . 
'Mr Martin Chuzzlewit's outside , he said . 
'I left him under the cartshed , while I came on to see if there was anybody here . 
We want to keep quiet to night , till we know the news from you , and what it's best for us to do . 
'There's not a soul in the house , except the kitchen company , returned the hostess . 
'If they were to know you had come back , Mark , they'd have a bonfire in the street , late as it is . 
One more ! I long to hear about old friends . 
When I first caught sight of the church to night , I thought the steeple would have choked me , I did . 
One more ! Won't you ? Not a very little one to finish off with ? 'You have had plenty , I am sure , said the hostess . 
'Go along with your foreign manners ! 'That ain't foreign , bless you ! cried Mark . 
'I ain't a kissing you now , you'll observe . 
I have been among the patriots I'm a kissin' my country . 
It would have been very unreasonable to complain of the exhibition of his patriotism with which he followed up this explanation , that it was at all lukewarm or indifferent . 
When he had given full expression to his nationality , he hurried off to Martin while Mrs Lupin , in a state of great agitation and excitement , prepared for their reception . 
The company soon came tumbling out insisting to each other that the Dragon clock was half an hour too fast , and that the thunder must have affected it . 
'There's the old tailor , Mark ! whispered Martin . 
There's Sam a coming out , sir . 
'Ah , to be sure ! cried Martin 'Sam , the hostler . 
I wonder whether that horse of Pecksniff's is alive still ? 'Not a doubt on it , sir , returned Mark . 
As if he had ever been alive in all his life , worth mentioning ! There's the clerk , sir wery drunk , as usual . 
'I see him ! said Martin , laughing . 
'I told you not to keep on the windy side , Mark , but to let us change and change about . 
The rain has been beating on you ever since it began . 
'Ah , Mark ! sighed Martin , 'the less we say of that the better . 
Do I see the light yonder ? 'That's the light ! cried Mark . 
'Lord bless her , what briskness she possesses ! Now for it , sir . 
Neat wines , good beds , and first rate entertainment for man or beast . 
Mrs Lupin , who for their sakes had dislodged the very cook , high priestess of the temple , with her own genial hands was dressing their repast . 
It was impossible to help it a ghost must have hugged her . 
The Atlantic Ocean and the Red Sea being , in that respect , all one , Martin hugged her instantly . 
, followed , with much gravity , on the same side . 
'For his friend , said the hostess , evidently gratified by this distinction , but at the same time admonishing Mr Tapley with a fork to remain at a respectful distance . 
Don't be at all alarmed about her . 
She is everything you could wish . 
It's of no use mincing matters , or making secrets , is it ? added Mrs Lupin . 
'I know all about it , you see ! 'My good creature , returned Martin , 'you are exactly the person who ought to know all about it . 
I am delighted to think you DO know about that ! But what changes do you hint at ? Has any death occurred ? 'No , no ! said the hostess . 
'Not as bad as that . 
But I declare now that I will not be drawn into saying another word till you have had your supper . 
If you ask me fifty questions in the meantime , I won't answer one . 
But at last , in the course of time and nature , they gave in . 
Many were the exclamations of surprise which interrupted her , when she told them of the separation between Mr Pecksniff and his daughters , and between the same good gentleman and Mr Pinch . 
'You don't suppose I am going to remain here , do you ? The imperturbable Mark confessed that he did . 
You do ! retorted Martin angrily . 
'I am much obliged to you . 
Martin darted an impatient look at him , without taking it , and walked rapidly up and down the kitchen several times , with one boot and a stocking on . 
But , mindful of his Eden resolution , he had already gained many victories over himself when Mark was in the case , and he resolved to conquer now . 
Somebody must have poisoned his mind , or influenced him in some extraordinary way . 
'Poor old Tom ! said Martin , in a tone that sounded like remorse . 
'It's a comfort to know , resumed the landlady , 'that he has his sister living with him , and is doing well . 
It was the same note he hadn't broken it . 
I never thought I could have been so little pleased to see a bank note come back to me as I was to see that . 
'Kindly said , and heartily ! said Martin . 
'Is it not , Mark ? 'She can't say anything as does not possess them qualities , returned Mr Tapley 'which as much belongs to the Dragon as its licence . 
, up with you , sir , and tell him so , and make an appeal to his affections . 
He's a great deal older than you , and if he was hasty , you was hasty too . 
Give way , sir , give way . 
'A most pernicious villain ! said Martin . 
We know that beforehand , sir and , consequently , it's no shame to be defeated by Pecksniff . 
Blow Pecksniff ! cried Mr Tapley , in the fervour of his eloquence . 
Pecksniff ! repeated Mr Tapley , with ineffable disdain . 
I never heard of any act of Parliament , as was made by Pecksniff . 
Pecksniff ! Why , I wouldn't see the man myself I wouldn't hear him I wouldn't choose to know he was in company . 
I'd scrape my shoes on the scraper of the door , and call that Pecksniff , if you liked but I wouldn't condescend no further . 
The amazement of Mrs Lupin , and indeed of Mr Tapley himself for that matter , at this impassioned flow of language , was immense . 
But Martin , after looking thoughtfully at the fire for a short time , said 'You are right , Mark . 
Right or wrong , it shall be done . 
'One word more , sir , returned Mark . 
'Only think of him so far as not to give him a handle against you . 
Don't you do anything secret that he can report before you get there . 
Don't you ? Mrs Lupin laughed and tossed her head . 
'Then you go in , bold and free as a gentleman should . 
I haven't done nothing under handed , says you . 
And postponing as he went along the congratulations of his numerous friends until a more convenient season , he soon arrived at Mr Pecksniff's house . 
But possibly Mr Pecksniff had already seen him , for Mark soon heard his shoes creaking , as he advanced to open the door with his own hands . 
Mr Pecksniff was as cheerful as ever , and sang a little song in the passage . 
'How d'ye do , sir ? said Mark . 
'Oh ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'Tapley , I believe ? The Prodigal returned ! We don't want any beer , my friend . 
'Thankee , sir , said Mark . 
'I couldn't accommodate you if you did . 
'For me ? cried Mr Pecksniff . 
'And an answer , eh ? 'Not for you , I think , sir , said Mark , pointing out the direction . 
'Chuzzlewit , I believe the name is , sir . 
'Oh ! returned Mr Pecksniff . 
Who's it from , my good young man ? 'The gentleman it comes from wrote his name inside , sir , returned Mr Tapley with extreme politeness . 
'I see him a signing of it at the end , while I was a waitin' . 
'And he said he wanted an answer , did he ? asked Mr Pecksniff in his most persuasive manner . 
Mark replied in the affirmative . 
'He shall have an answer . 
Certainly , said Mr Pecksniff , tearing the letter into small pieces , as mildly as if that were the most flattering attention a correspondent could receive . 
'Have the goodness to give him that , with my compliments , if you please . 
Good morning ! Whereupon he handed Mark the scraps retired , and shut the door . 
Mark thought it prudent to subdue his personal emotions , and return to Martin at the Dragon . 
They were not unprepared for such a reception , and suffered an hour or so to elapse before making another attempt . 
When this interval had gone by , they returned to Mr Pecksniff's house in company . 
Martin knocked this time , while Mr Tapley prepared himself to keep the door open with his foot and shoulder , when anybody came , and by that means secure an enforced parley . 
But this precaution was needless , for the servant girl appeared almost immediately . 
Mr Pecksniff also was in the room and Mary . 
In the swift instant of their mutual recognition , Martin saw the old man droop his grey head , and hide his face in his hands . 
It smote him to the heart . 
He could not bear to see them . 
He could not bear to think they fell at sight of him . 
He could not bear to view reflected in them , the reproachful and irrevocable Past . 
He hurriedly advanced to seize the old man's hand in his , when Mr Pecksniff interposed himself between them . 
'No , young man ! said Mr Pecksniff , striking himself upon the breast , and stretching out his other arm towards his guest as if it were a wing to shelter him . 
Strike here , sir , here ! Launch your arrows at me , sir , if you'll have the goodness not at Him ! 'Grandfather ! cried Martin . 
I will be its shield , young man . 
Fire away ! 'Pecksniff , said the old man , in a feeble voice . 
'I can't be calm , cried Mr Pecksniff , 'and I won't be quiet . 
'It is right that you should see it , my friend , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'It is well that you should see it , my noble sir . 
It is desirable that you should contemplate it in its true proportions . 
Behold it ! There it is , sir . 
There it is ! Martin could hardly be a mortal man , and not express in his face something of the anger and disdain with which Mr Pecksniff inspired him . 
But beyond this he evinced no knowledge whatever of that gentleman's presence or existence . 
'And that , he said , 'is he . 
Ah ! that is he ! Say what you wish to say . 
'Grandfather ! said Martin , with great earnestness . 
'Rovers of this sort , observed Mr Pecksniff , as Chorus , 'very commonly come back when they find they don't meet with the success they expected in their marauding ravages . 
Mr Pecksniff looked at him . 
'Did you speak , my worthy sir ? said Mr Pecksniff , with a smile . 
The old man answered in the negative . 
'I know what you thought , said Mr Pecksniff , with another smile . 
'Let him go on my friend . 
The development of self interest in the human mind is always a curious study . 
Let him go on , sir . 
'Go on ! observed the old man in a mechanical obedience , it appeared , to Mr Pecksniff's suggestion . 
All this tells against me in your mind , I know . 
I have given you cause to think I have been driven here wholly by want , and have not been led on , in any degree , by affection or regret . 
When I parted from you , Grandfather , I deserved that suspicion , but I do not now . 
The Chorus put its hand in its waistcoat , and smiled . 
'Let him go on , my worthy sir , it said . 
'I know what you are thinking of , but don't express it prematurely . 
'And as I say it now , with little or no hope , Grandfather whatever dawn of hope I had on entering the room believe it to be true . 
At least , believe it to be true . 
'Beautiful Truth ! exclaimed the Chorus , looking upward . 
'How is your name profaned by vicious persons ! You don't live in a well , my holy principle , but on the lips of false mankind . 
It is hard to bear with mankind , dear sir' addressing the elder Mr Chuzzlewit 'but let us do so meekly . 
It is our duty so to do . 
Let us be among the Few who do their duty . 
Whatever influence they have undergone , since that unhappy time , has not been one to weaken but to strengthen me . 
I cannot profess sorrow for that , nor irresolution in that , nor shame in that . 
Nor would you wish me , I know . 
Help me to get honest work to do , and I would do it . 
My condition places me at the disadvantage of seeming to have only my selfish ends to serve , but try if that be so or not . 
Try if I be self willed , obdurate , and haughty , as I was or have been disciplined in a rough school . 
'My dear sir , cried Mr Pecksniff , bending over him , 'you must not give way to this . 
It is very natural , and very amiable , but you must not allow the shameless conduct of one whom you long ago cast off , to move you so far . 
Think , said Pecksniff , 'think of Me , my friend . 
'I will , returned old Martin , looking up into his face . 
'You recall me to myself . 
There is no occasion , said the old man . 
'Indignation , observed Mr Pecksniff , 'WILL bring the scalding tear into the honest eye , I know' he wiped his own elaborately . 
'But we have highest duties to perform than that . 
Rouse yourself , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'Speak for me , Pecksniff , Thank you . 
You are true to me . 
Thank you ! 'Do not unman me , sir , said Mr Pecksniff , shaking his hand vigorously , 'or I shall be unequal to the task . 
But you desire it and that is sufficient . 
Young man ! The door is immediately behind the companion of your infamy . 
Blush if you can begone without a blush , if you can't . 
Martin looked as steadily at his grandfather as if there had been a dead silence all this time . 
The old man looked no less steadily at Mr Pecksniff . 
Do not suppose that the tear which stands in my eye at this moment , is shed for you . 
It is shed for him , sir . 
It is shed for him . 
Here Mr Pecksniff , accidentally dropping the tear in question on a bald part of Mr Chuzzlewit's head , wiped the place with his pocket handkerchief , and begged pardon . 
It is shed in sympathy with him , and admiration of him not in pity for him , for happily he knows what you are . 
You shall not wrong him further , sir , in any way , said Mr Pecksniff , quite transported with enthusiasm , 'while I have life . 
You may bestride my senseless corse , sir . 
I can imagine a mind like yours deriving great satisfaction from any measure of that kind . 
But while I continue to be called upon to exist , sir , you must strike at him through me . 
'I have not heard your voice . 
I have not heard your spirit , returned Martin . 
'Tell him again , said the old man , still gazing up in Mr Pecksniff's face . 
'Not a word ? said Martin , for the second time . 
'I remember that I have a word to say , Pecksniff , observed the old man . 
You spoke of being indebted to the charitable help of some stranger for the means of returning to England . 
It appeared to have become a habit with him , both in a literal and figurative sense , to look to Mr Pecksniff alone . 
Martin took out his pencil , tore a leaf from his pocket book , and hastily wrote down the particulars of his debt to Mr Bevan . 
The old man stretched out his hand for the paper , and took it but his eyes did not wander from Mr Pecksniff's face . 
But I never felt my poverty so deeply as I feel it now . 
'Read it to me , Pecksniff , said the old man . 
Mr Pecksniff , after approaching the perusal of the paper as if it were a manuscript confession of a murder , complied . 
'I think , Pecksniff , said old Martin , 'I could wish that to be discharged . 
a kind action , to suffer . 
'An honourable sentiment , my dear sir . 
But a dangerous precedent , said Mr Pecksniff , 'permit me to suggest . 
'It shall not be a precedent , returned the old man . 
'It is the only recognition of him . 
But we will talk of it again . 
'You have nothing more to say ? inquired the old man , laying his hand with unusual earnestness on Mr Pecksniff's sleeve . 
Mr Pecksniff would not say what rose to his lips . 
For reproaches he observed , were useless . 
'You have nothing at all to urge ? You are sure of that ! If you have , no matter what it is , speak freely . 
I will oppose nothing that you ask of me , said the old man . 
But he rose up firmly too , and walked towards the door , from which Mark withdrew to make way for him . 
The obsequious Mr Pecksniff proffered his arm . 
The old man took it . 
Turning at the door , he said to Martin , waving him off with his hand , 'You have heard him . 
'Dear girl ! said Martin . 
'He has not changed you . 
Why , what an impotent and harmless knave the fellow is ! 'You have restrained yourself so nobly ! You have borne so much ! 'Restrained myself ! cried Martin , cheerfully . 
'You were by , and were unchanged , I knew . 
What more advantage did I want ? The sight of me was such a bitterness to the dog , that I had my triumph in his being forced to endure it . 
'And he assists him in it ? 'No , she answered eagerly . 
'Thank Heaven ! cried Martin , 'that it leaves his mind unclouded in that one respect ! 'I do not think , said Mary , 'it was known to him at first . 
When this man had sufficiently prepared his mind , he revealed it to him by degrees . 
I think so , but I only know it from my own impression now from anything they told me . 
Then he spoke to me alone . 
'My grandfather did ? said Martin . 
'Yes spoke to me alone , and told me 'What the hound had said , cried Martin . 
'And said I knew well what qualities he possessed that he was moderately rich in good repute and high in his favour and confidence . 
But seeing me very much distressed , he said that he would not control or force my inclinations , but would content himself with telling me the fact . 
He would not pain me by dwelling on it , or reverting to it nor has he ever done so since , but has truly kept his word . 
'The man himself ? asked Martin . 
'He has had few opportunities of pursuing his suit . 
I have never walked out alone , or remained alone an instant in his presence . 
Dear Martin , I must tell you , she continued , 'that the kindness of your grandfather to me remains unchanged . 
I am his companion still . 
An indescribable tenderness and compassion seem to have mingled themselves with his old regard and if I were his only child , I could not have a gentler father . 
Martin looked with admiration on her glowing face , and pressed his lips to hers . 
But the influence this fellow exercises over him has steadily increased , I fear . 
She could not help admitting that . 
Steadily , imperceptibly , and surely , until it was paramount and supreme . 
She herself had none and yet he treated her with more affection than at any previous time . 
Martin thought the inconsistency a part of his weakness and decay . 
'Does the influence extend to fear ? said Martin . 
'Is he timid of asserting his own opinion in the presence of this infatuation ? I fancied so just now . 
'I have thought so , often . 
He has broken off immediately , and become what you have seen to day . 
When we first came here he had his impetuous outbreaks , in which it was not easy for Mr Pecksniff with his utmost plausibility to appease him . 
But these have long since dwindled away . 
He defers to him in everything , and has no opinion upon any question , but that which is forced upon him by this treacherous man . 
, it is the custom to use as many words as possible , and express nothing whatever . 
and Mark and he stood on the outside of the Pecksniffian halls . 
'A short interview after such an absence ! said Martin , sorrowfully . 
'But we are well out of the house . 
We might have placed ourselves in a false position by remaining there , even so long , Mark . 
I had the door all ready , sir . 
If Pecksniff had showed his head , or had only so much as listened behind it , I would have caught him like a walnut . 
He's the sort of man , added Mr Tapley , musing , 'as would squeeze soft , I know . 
A person who was evidently going to Mr Pecksniff's house , passed them at this moment . 
He raised his eyes at the mention of the architect's name and when he had gone on a few yards , stopped and gazed at them . 
Mr Tapley , also , looked over his shoulder , and so did Martin for the stranger , as he passed , had looked very sharply at them . 
'Who may that be , I wonder ! said Martin . 
'The face seems familiar to me , but I don't know the man . 
'He seems to have a amiable desire that his face should be tolerable familiar to us , said Mr Tapley , 'for he's a staring pretty hard . 
He'd better not waste his beauty , for he ain't got much to spare . 
Coming in sight of the Dragon , they saw a travelling carriage at the door . 
'And a Salisbury carriage , eh ? said Mr Tapley . 
'That's what he came in depend upon it . 
What's in the wind now ? A new pupil , I shouldn't wonder . 
P'raps it's a order for another grammar school , of the same pattern as the last . 
Before they could enter at the door , Mrs Lupin came running out and beckoning them to the carriage showed them a portmanteau with the name of CHUZZLEWIT upon it . 
'Miss Pecksniff's husband that was , said the good woman to Martin . 
'I didn't know what terms you might be on , and was quite in a worry till you came back . 
We passed him on the road , I have no doubt . 
I am glad he timed his coming as he did . 
'He has ordered everything that can be got for dinner and has the glossiest moustaches and whiskers ever you saw . 
'Has he ? cried Martin , 'why then we'll endeavour to avoid him too , in the hope that our self denial may be strong enough for the sacrifice . 
It is only for a few hours , said Martin , dropping wearily into a chair behind the little screen in the bar . 
'Our visit has met with no success , my dear Mrs Lupin , and I must go to London . 
'Dear , dear ! cried the hostess . 
'Yes , one foul wind no more makes a winter , than one swallow makes a summer . 
With his advice to guide me , I may do the same . 
I took Tom under my protection once , God save the mark ! said Martin , with a melancholy smile 'and promised I would make his fortune . 
Perhaps Tom will take me under HIS protection now , and teach me how to earn my bread . 
Let him be discomfited in one quarter , and he refreshed and recompensed himself by carrying the war into another . 
He had never been such a saintly and improving spectacle to all about him , as after his detection by Thomas Pinch . 
He had scarcely ever been at once so tender in his humanity , and so dignified and exalted in his virtue , as when young Martin's scorn was fresh and hot upon him . 
Descending , therefore , swiftly to the parlour , and clasping the young man in his arms , he exclaimed , with looks and gestures that denoted the perturbation of his spirit 'Jonas . 
My child she is well ! There is nothing the matter ? 'What , you're at it again , are you ? replied his son in law . 
'Even with me ? Get away with you , will you ? 'Tell me she is well then , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Tell me she is well my boy ! 'She's well enough , retorted Jonas , disengaging himself . 
'There's nothing the matter with HER . 
'There is nothing the matter with her ! cried Mr Pecksniff , sitting down in the nearest chair , and rubbing up his hair . 
'Fie upon my weakness ! I cannot help it , Jonas . 
How is my other child my eldest my Cherrywerrychigo ? said Mr Pecksniff , inventing a playful little name for her , in the restored lightness of his heart . 
'She's much about the same as usual , returned Jonas . 
'She sticks pretty close to the vinegar bottle . 
'She need adorn some sphere or other , observed the son in law , for she ain't very ornamental in general . 
'My girls are now provided for , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Suppose we talk about something else , now , observed Jonas , drily . 
Are you quite agreeable ? 'Quite , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Ah , you wag , you naughty wag ! You laugh at poor old fond papa . 
Well ! He deserves it . 
And he don't mind it either , for his feelings are their own reward . 
You have come to stay with me , Jonas ? 'No . 
I've got a friend with me , said Jonas . 
'Bring your friend ! cried Mr Pecksniff , in a gush of hospitality . 
'Bring any number of your friends ! 'This ain't the sort of man to be brought , said Jonas , contemptuously . 
The good man pricked up his ears his interest was awakened . 
So it always is with great spirits . 
'I'll tell you what you may do , if you like , said Jonas 'you may come and dine with us at the Dragon . 
Mind what you're about , you know . 
'I shall be delighted to know the gay sprig . 
to get a share in the Assurance office that he's President of , I've made never mind what I've made , said Jonas , seeming to recover all at once his usual caution . 
'You know me pretty well , and I don't blab about such things . 
But , Ecod , I've made a trifle . 
'Really , my dear Jonas , cried Mr Pecksniff , with much warmth , 'a gentleman like this should receive some attention . 
It is here we contemplate the work of bygone ages . 
It is here we listen to the swelling organ , as we stroll through the reverberating aisles . 
He looked at Mr Pecksniff now with such shrewd meaning twinkling in his eyes , that Mr Pecksniff stopped , and asked him what he was going to say . 
'Pecksniff if I knew how you meant to leave your money , I could put you in the way of doubling it in no time . 
It wouldn't be bad to keep a chance like this snug in the family . 
But you're such a deep one ! 'Jonas ! cried Mr Pecksniff , much affected , 'I am not a diplomatical character my heart is in my hand . 
He would keep his own counsel . 
In the course of their walk , Mr Jonas affected to maintain that close reserve which had operated as a timely check upon him during the foregoing dialogue . 
The more Jonas repelled him in his hints and inquiries , the more solicitous , therefore , Mr Pecksniff became to be initiated into the golden mysteries at which he had obscurely glanced . 
Otherwise , he muttered discontentedly , he would have seen his beloved father in law 'far enough off , before he would have taken him into his confidence . 
It is very strange , said Mr Pecksniff , pressing his hand almost reverentially , 'but I seem to know you . 
Nothing was more probable , they all agreed . 
'I could have wished , said Mr Pecksniff , 'to have had the honour of introducing you to an elderly inmate of our house to the uncle of our friend . 
Mr Chuzzlewit , sir , would have been proud indeed to have taken you by the hand . 
'Is the gentleman here now ? asked Montague , turning deeply red . 
'He is , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'You said nothing about that , Chuzzlewit . 
'I didn't suppose you'd care to hear of it , returned Jonas . 
'You wouldn't care to know him , I can promise you . 
'Jonas ! my dear Jonas ! remonstrated Mr Pecksniff . 
'Really ! 'Oh ! it's all very well for you to speak up for him , said Jonas . 
You'll get a fortune by him . 
'Oho ! Is the wind in that quarter ? cried Montague . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! and here they all laughed especially Mr Pecksniff . 
'No , no ! said that gentleman , clapping his son in law playfully upon the shoulder . 
'You must not believe all that my young relative says , Mr Montague . 
You may believe him in official business , and trust him in official business , but you must not attach importance to his flights of fancy . 
'Upon my life , Mr Pecksniff , cried Montague , 'I attach the greatest importance to that last observation of his . 
I trust and hope it's true . 
Money cannot be turned and turned again quickly enough in the ordinary course , Mr Pecksniff . 
There is nothing like building our fortune on the weaknesses of mankind . 
'Oh fie ! oh fie , for shame ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
But they all laughed again especially Mr Pecksniff . 
'I give you my honour that WE do it , said Montague . 
'Oh fie , fie ! cried Mr Pecksniff . 
That I am sure you don't ! That I am sure you don't ! How CAN you , you know ? Again they all laughed in concert and again Mr Pecksniff laughed especially . 
This was very agreeable indeed . 
It was confidential , easy , straight forward and still left Mr Pecksniff in the position of being in a gentle way the Mentor of the party . 
that Mr Montague should think lightly of mankind and their weaknesses . 
He was anxious upon this subject his mind ran upon it in one way or another he was constantly coming back to it he must make a convert of him , he said . 
How CAN you , you know ? laying a greater stress each time on those last words . 
, to the discussion of the subject as a matter of business , was easy . 
Mr Pecksniff did know he was joking because he said so . 
, as at that moment . 
The returns began almost immediately , and were immense . 
It took so long to bring the subject to this head , that it was nearly midnight when they parted . 
When Mr Pecksniff walked downstairs to the door , he found Mrs Lupin standing there , looking out . 
'Ah , my good friend ! he said 'not a bed yet ! Contemplating the stars , Mrs Lupin ? 'It's a beautiful starlight night , sir . 
'A beautiful starlight night , said Mr Pecksniff , looking up . 
'Behold the planets , how they shine ! Behold the those two persons who were here this morning have left your house , I hope , Mrs Lupin ? 'Yes , sir . 
'I am glad to hear it , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'Look up there , with me ! repeated Mr Pecksniff , stretching out his hand 'With me , a humble individual who is also an insect like yourselves . 
Can silver , gold , or precious stones , sparkle like those constellations ! I think not . 
'You mean to wait at Salisbury over the day after to morrow , do you , then ? said Jonas . 
'You heard our appointment , returned Montague , without raising his eyes . 
'In any case I should have waited to see after the boy . 
They appeared to have changed places again Montague being in high spirits Jonas gloomy and lowering . 
'You don't want me , I suppose ? said Jonas . 
'I want you to put your name here , he returned , glancing at him with a smile , 'as soon as I have filled up the stamp . 
I may as well have your note of hand for that extra capital . 
If you wish to go home , I can manage Mr Pecksniff now , alone . 
There is a perfect understanding between us . 
Jonas sat scowling at him as he wrote , in silence . 
When he had finished his writing , and had dried it on the blotting paper in his travelling desk he looked up , and tossed the pen towards him . 
'What , not a day's grace , not a day's trust , eh ? said Jonas bitterly . 
'Not after the pains I have taken with to night's work ? 'To night's work was a part of our bargain , replied Montague 'and so was this . 
'You drive a hard bargain , said Jonas , advancing to the table . 
Give it here ! Montague gave him the paper . 
After pausing as if he could not make up his mind to put his name to it , Jonas dipped his pen hastily in the nearest inkstand , and began to write . 
But he had scarcely marked the paper when he started back , in a panic . 
'Why , what the devil's this ? he said . 
'It's bloody ! He had dipped the pen , as another moment showed , into red ink . 
But he attached a strange degree of importance to the mistake . 
Even when he used a different pen , and the right ink , he made some scratches on another paper first , as half believing they would turn red also . 
'Black enough , this time , he said , handing the note to Montague . 
Good bye ! 'You are in a hurry ! 'I have something to do , said Jonas . 
'Good bye ! His friend looked after him as he went out , in surprise , which gradually gave place to an air of satisfaction and relief . 
'It happens all the better . 
It brings about what I wanted , without any difficulty . 
I shall travel home alone . 
There was a little plot between them , that Tom should always come out of the Temple by one way and that was past the fountain . 
, but coming briskly up , with the best little laugh upon her face that ever played in opposition to the fountain , and beat it all to nothing . 
to attract his wandering observation . 
Anything might have happened that did not happen , and never will , for the love of Ruth . 
Something happened , too , upon the afternoon of which the history treats . 
Oh no ! quite by accident , and without the least reference to her at all . 
Oh ! foolish , panting , frightened little heart , why did she run away ! Merrily the tiny fountain played , and merrily the dimples sparkled on its sunny face . 
John Westlock hurried after her . 
Softly the whispering water broke and fell as roguishly the dimples twinkled , as he stole upon her footsteps . 
'I knew I couldn't be mistaken . 
'You are waiting for your brother , said John . 
'Let me bear you company . 
So light was the touch of the coy little hand , that he glanced down to assure himself he had it on his arm . 
But his glance , stopping for an instant at the bright eyes , forgot its first design , and went no farther . 
They walked up and down three or four times , speaking about Tom and his mysterious employment . 
Now that was a very natural and innocent subject , surely . 
They were much too precious and too genuine to stand in need of arts like those . 
Somebody must have been looking at them ! They found out Tom , though , quickly enough . 
This pair of eyes descried him in the distance , the moment he appeared . 
He was staring about him , as usual , in all directions but the right one and was as obstinate in not looking towards them , as if he had intended it . 
As it was plain that , being left to himself , he would walk away home , John Westlock darted off to stop him . 
This made the approach of poor little Ruth , by herself , one of the most embarrassing of circumstances . 
Merrily the fountain plashed and plashed , until the dimples , merging into one another , swelled into a general smile , that covered the whole surface of the basin . 
'What an extraordinary meeting ! said Tom . 
'I should never have dreamed of seeing you two together here . 
'Quite accidental , John was heard to murmur . 
'Exactly , cried Tom 'that's what I mean , you know . 
If it wasn't accidental , there would be nothing remarkable in it . 
'To be sure , said John . 
'Such an out of the way place for you to have met in , pursued Tom , quite delighted . 
'Such an unlikely spot ! John rather disputed that . 
On the contrary , he considered it a very likely spot , indeed . 
He was constantly passing to and fro there , he said . 
He shouldn't wonder if it were to happen again . 
His only wonder was , that it had never happened before . 
By this time Ruth had got round on the farther side of her brother , and had taken his arm . 
'John , he said , 'if you'll give my sister your arm , we'll take her between us , and walk on . 
I have a curious circumstance to relate to you . 
Our meeting could not have happened better . 
Merrily the fountain leaped and danced , and merrily the smiling dimples twinkled and expanded more and more , until they broke into a laugh against the basin's rim , and vanished . 
'Tom , said his friend , as they turned into the noisy street , 'I have a proposition to make . 
It is , that you and your sister if she will so far honour a poor bachelor's dwelling give me a great pleasure , and come and dine with me . 
'What , to day ? cried Tom . 
It's close by , you know . 
Pray , Miss Pinch , insist upon it . 
It will be very disinterested , for I have nothing to give you . 
'Oh ! you must not believe that , Ruth , said Tom . 
'He is the most tremendous fellow , in his housekeeping , that I ever heard of , for a single man . 
He ought to be Lord Mayor . 
Well ! what do you say ? Shall we go ? 'If you please , Tom , rejoined his dutiful little sister . 
, but good , plain , honest truths , which no one could deny . 
Ruth laughed , and all that , but she made no objection so it was an engagement . 
'If I had known it a little sooner , said John , 'I would have tried another pudding . 
Not in rivalry but merely to exalt that famous one . 
I wouldn't on any account have had it made with suet . 
'Why not ? asked Tom . 
'Because that cookery book advises suet , said John Westlock 'and ours was made with flour and eggs . 
'Oh good gracious ! cried Tom . 
'Ours was made with flour and eggs , was it ? Ha , ha , ha ! A beefsteak pudding made with flour and eggs ! Why anybody knows better than that . 
There are snug chambers in those Inns where the bachelors live , and , for the desolate fellows they pretend to be , it is quite surprising how well they get on . 
John was very pathetic on the subject of his dreary life , and the deplorable makeshifts and apologetic contrivances it involved , but he really seemed to make himself pretty comfortable . 
His rooms were the perfection of neatness and convenience at any rate and if he were anything but comfortable , the fault was certainly not theirs . 
Salmon , lamb , peas , innocent young potatoes , a cool salad , sliced cucumber , a tender duckling , and a tart all there . 
They all came at the right time . 
He was a kind man gentle in his manners , and much interested in what they ate and drank . 
He was a learned man , and knew the flavour of John Westlock's private sauces , which he softly and feelingly described , as he handed the little bottles round . 
'Didn't I say he was a tremendous fellow in his housekeeping ? cried Tom . 
'Bless my soul ! It's wonderful . 
'Ah , Miss Pinch , said John . 
'This is the bright side of the life we lead in such a place . 
It would be a dismal life , indeed , if it didn't brighten up to day' 'Don't believe a word he says , cried Tom . 
'He lives here like a monarch , and wouldn't change his mode of life for any consideration . 
He only pretends to grumble . 
It was a wretched life , he said , a miserable life . 
He thought of getting rid of the chambers as soon as possible and meant , in fact , to put a bill up very shortly . 
'Well' said Tom Pinch , 'I don't know where you can go , John , to be more comfortable . 
That's all I can say . 
'So I am , said Tom . 
'We have been so talkative on other topics that I declare I have not had time to think of it . 
I'll tell it you at once , John , in case I should forget it altogether . 
On Tom's relating what had passed upon the wharf , his friend was very much surprised , and took such a great interest in the narrative as Tom could not quite understand . 
Tom had been sure of his taking some interest in the matter but was not prepared for the strong interest he showed . 
It held John Westlock to the subject even after Ruth had left the room and evidently made him anxious to pursue it further than as a mere subject of conversation . 
'Which you may swear he did , John interposed . 
'You think so ? 'I am certain of it . 
, on his having asked me to execute such an unpleasant commission . 
'You are perfectly right , Tom , returned his friend , after a short interval of reflection . 
I have a misgiving that there is something dark at work here , Tom . 
I will tell you why , at another time when I have made an inquiry or two myself . 
All this sounded very mysterious to Tom Pinch . 
But as he knew he could rely upon his friend , he resolved to follow this advice . 
That would have been pleasant . 
That would have been agreeable . 
That would have been worth seeing . 
That would have been delightful ! John seemed to think it all delightful for coming in with Tom to tea , he took his seat beside her like a man enchanted . 
There is little enough to see in Furnival's Inn . 
It is a shady , quiet place , echoing to the footsteps of the stragglers who have business there and rather monotonous and gloomy on summer evenings . 
Still Tom's fingers wandered over the keys of the piano , and still the window had its pair of tenants . 
At length , her hand upon his shoulder , and her breath upon his forehead , roused Tom from his reverie . 
'Dear me ! he cried , desisting with a start . 
'I am afraid I have been very inconsiderate and unpolite . 
Tom little thought how much consideration and politeness he had shown ! 'Sing something to us , my dear , said Tom . 
'let us hear your voice . 
Come ! John Westlock added his entreaties with such earnestness that a flinty heart alone could have resisted them . 
Hers was not a flinty heart . 
Oh , dear no ! Quite another thing . 
So down she sat , and in a pleasant voice began to sing the ballads Tom loved well . 
she relapsed , and broke the listeners' hearts again these were the simple means she used to please them . 
And that these simple means prevailed , and she DID please them , let the still darkened chamber , and its long deferred illumination witness . 
The candles came at last , and it was time for moving homeward . 
Cutting paper carefully , and rolling it about the stalks of those same flowers , occasioned some delay but even this was done in time , and Ruth was ready . 
'Good night ! said Tom . 
'A memorable and delightful visit , John ! Good night ! John thought he would walk with them . 
'What nonsense ! We can get home very well alone . 
I couldn't think of taking you out . 
But John said he would rather . 
'Are you sure you would rather ? said Tom . 
'I am afraid you only say so out of politeness . 
John being quite sure , gave his arm to Ruth , and led her out . 
Fiery face , who was again in attendance , acknowledged her departure with so cold a curtsey that it was hardly visible and cut Tom , dead . 
Their host was bent on walking the whole distance , and would not listen to Tom's dissuasions . 
Happy time , happy walk , happy parting , happy dreams ! But there are some sweet day dreams , so there are that put the visions of the night to shame . 
Busily the Temple fountain murmured in the moonlight , while Ruth lay sleeping , with her flowers beside her and John Westlock sketched a portrait whose ? from memory . 
, was all eagerness to do . 
'She was so glad to see me , said Tom , 'that I am sure she will be glad to see you . 
Your sympathy is certain to be much more delicate and acceptable than mine . 
'I am very far from being certain of that , Tom , she replied 'and indeed you do yourself an injustice . 
But I hope she may like me , Tom . 
'Oh , she is sure to do that ! cried Tom , confidently . 
'What a number of friends I should have , if everybody was of your way of thinking . 
Shouldn't I , Tom , dear ? said his little sister pinching him upon the cheek . 
Tom laughed , and said that with reference to this particular case he had no doubt at all of finding a disciple in Merry . 
You are such 'My goodness , Tom ! his sister interposed . 
'You ought to fall in love immediately . 
Tom put this observation off good humouredly , but somewhat gravely too and they were soon very chatty again on some other subject . 
'Miss Pecksniff , and the young gentleman to whom she is going to be married . 
'Why does he look as if he was going to be buried , Tom ? inquired his little sister . 
'Why , he is naturally a dismal young gentleman , I believe , said Tom 'but he is very civil and inoffensive . 
'I suppose they are furnishing their house , whispered Ruth . 
'Yes , I suppose they are , replied Tom . 
'We had better avoid speaking to them . 
Miss Pecksniff had quite the air of having taken the unhappy Moddle captive , and brought him up to the contemplation of the furniture like a lamb to the altar . 
He offered no resistance , but was perfectly resigned and quiet . 
'Augustus , my love , said Miss Pecksniff , 'ask the price of the eight rosewood chairs , and the loo table . 
'Perhaps they are ordered already , said Augustus . 
'They can make more like them , if they are , rejoined Miss Pecksniff . 
'No , no , they can't , said Moddle . 
'It's impossible ! He appeared , for the moment , to be quite overwhelmed and stupefied by the prospect of his approaching happiness but recovering , entered the shop . 
'Oh , really ! cried Miss Pecksniff , glancing about her , as if for some convenient means of sinking into the earth . 
She was more than gracious she was kind and cordial . 
And twice Miss Pecksniff kissed Miss Pinch upon the cheek . 
'Augustus Mr Pinch , you know . 
My dear girl ! said Miss Pecksniff , aside . 
'I never was so ashamed in my life . 
Ruth begged her not to think of it . 
'I mind your brother less than anybody else , simpered Miss Pecksniff . 
'But the indelicacy of meeting any gentleman under such circumstances ! Augustus , my child , did you Here Miss Pecksniff whispered in his ear . 
The suffering Moddle repeated 'Twenty four pound ten ! 'Oh , you silly man ! I don't mean them , said Miss Pecksniff . 
'I am speaking of the Here she whispered him again . 
'If it's the same patterned chintz as that in the window thirty two , twelve , six , said Moddle , with a sigh . 
Miss Pecksniff stopped him from giving any further explanation by laying her hand upon his lips , and betraying a soft embarrassment . 
She then asked Tom Pinch which way he was going . 
'I was going to see if I could find your sister , answered Tom , 'to whom I wished to say a few words . 
We were going to Mrs Todgers's , where I had the pleasure of seeing her before . 
'It's of no use your going on , then , said Cherry , 'for we have not long left there and I know she is not at home . 
But I'll take you to my sister's house , if you please . 
Augustus Mr Moddle , I mean and myself , are on our way to tea there , now . 
You needn't think of HIM , she added , nodding her head as she observed some hesitation on Tom's part . 
'He is not at home . 
'Are you sure ? asked Tom . 
'Oh , I am quite sure of that . 
I don't want any MORE revenge , said Miss Pecksniff , expressively . 
'But , really , I must beg you two gentlemen to walk on , and allow me to follow with Miss Pinch . 
My dear , I never was so taken by surprise ! In furtherance of this bashful arrangement , Moddle gave his arm to Tom and Miss Pecksniff linked her own in Ruth's . 
It would be in vain to conceal it . 
What do you think of him ? Pray , let me have your candid opinion . 
Ruth intimated that , as far as she could judge , he was a very eligible swain . 
'No , no but don't let that interfere with your answer , returned Miss Pecksniff . 
'I am curious to hear what you say . 
Ruth acknowledged that he had impressed her at first sight as looking 'rather low . 
'No , really ? said Miss Pecksniff . 
'Well ! that is quite remarkable ! Everybody says the same . 
Mrs Todgers says the same and Augustus informs me that it is quite a joke among the gentlemen in the house . 
Indeed , but for the positive commands I have laid upon him , I believe it would have been the occasion of loaded fire arms being resorted to more than once . 
What do you think is the cause of his appearance of depression ? Ruth thought of several things such as his digestion , his tailor , his mother , and the like . 
But hesitating to give utterance to any one of them , she refrained from expressing an opinion . 
For it WAS cruel , said Miss Pecksniff , with a self conviction candour that might have adorned the diadem of her own papa . 
'There is no doubt of it . 
I look back upon my conduct now with blushes . 
I felt that he was not to me what the crowd of young men who had made proposals had been , but something very different . 
Then what right had I to refuse him three times ? 'It was a severe trial of his fidelity , no doubt , said Ruth . 
'My dear , returned Miss Pecksniff . 
But such is the caprice and thoughtlessness of our sex ! Let me be a warning to you . 
'Remorse ! cried Miss Pecksniff , in a sort of snug and comfortable penitence . 
What is the consequence of my past conduct ? Until Augustus leads me to the altar he is not sure of me . 
I have blighted and withered the affections of his heart to that extent that he is not sure of me . 
I see that preying on his mind and feeding on his vitals . 
'Very soon indeed , returned Miss Pecksniff . 
'As soon as our house is ready . 
We are furnishing now as fast as we can . 
, early and exclusive information on all points of interest connected with the event . 
'I wonder , said Tom , 'that in these crowded streets the foot passengers are not oftener run over . 
Mr Moddle , with a dark look , replied 'The drivers won't do it . 
'Do you mean ? Tom began 'That there are some men , interrupted Moddle , with a hollow laugh , 'who can't get run over . 
They live a charmed life . 
Coal waggons recoil from them , and even cabs refuse to run them down . 
Ah ! said Augustus , marking Tom's astonishment . 
One of 'em is a friend of mine . 
Tom was so afraid of his committing this rash act , that he had scarcely ever experienced such mental relief as when they arrived in safety at Mrs Jonas Chuzzlewit's house . 
'Walk up , pray , Mr Pinch , said Miss Pecksniff . 
For Tom halted , irresolutely , at the door . 
'I am doubtful whether I should be welcome , replied Tom , 'or , I ought rather to say , I have no doubt about it . 
I will send up a message , I think . 
'But what nonsense that is ! returned Miss Pecksniff , speaking apart to Tom . 
'He is not at home , I am certain . 
I know he is not and Merry hasn't the least idea that you ever 'No , interrupted Tom . 
'Nor would I have her know it , on any account . 
I am not so proud of that scuffle , I assure you . 
'Ah , but then you are so modest , you see , returned Miss Pecksniff , with a smile . 
If you don't wish her to know it , and do wish to speak to her , pray walk up . 
Pray walk up , Miss Pinch . 
Tom still hesitated for he felt that he was in an awkward position . 
'Merry , my darling ! said the fair Miss Pecksniff , opening the door of the usual sitting room . 
Honouring each of these parties , as she severally addressed them , with an acid smile , Miss Charity presented 'Mr Moddle . 
'I believe you have seen HIM before , she pleasantly observed . 
'Augustus , my sweet child , bring me a chair . 
It is to be hoped , for the general cheerfulness of mankind , that such a doleful little pet was never seen as Mr Moddle looked when he complied . 
Mrs Gamp was a lady of that happy temperament which can be ecstatic without any other stimulating cause than a general desire to establish a large and profitable connection . 
She added daily so many strings to her bow , that she made a perfect harp of it and upon that instrument she now began to perform an extemporaneous concerto . 
Which no offence is meant , ladies and gentlemen none bein' took , I hope . 
No , Sairey Gamp , says she , you best of hard working and industrious creeturs as ever was underpaid at any price , which underpaid you are , quite diff'rent . 
But he never said it was a angel's , Sairey , wotever he might have thought . 
'Rouge yourself , and look up ! Come ! said Mrs Gamp . 
'Here's company , Mr Chuffey . 
'I am sorry for it , cried the old man , looking humbly round the room . 
'I know I'm in the way . 
I ask pardon , but I've nowhere else to go to . 
Where is she ? Merry went to him . 
'Ah ! said the old man , patting her on the check . 
Here she is ! She's never hard on poor old Chuffey . 
It was a sad look that she cast upon him , though there was a faint smile trembling on her face . 
It was a speaking look , and Tom knew what it said . 
'You see how misery has changed me . 
I can feel for a dependant NOW , and set some value on his attachment . 
'Aye , aye ! cried Chuffey in a soothing tone . 
'Aye , aye , aye ! Never mind him . 
It's hard to hear , but never mind him . 
There are three hundred and sixty five days in the year three hundred and sixty six in leap year and he may die on any one of 'em . 
'His son , murmured the old man , lifting up his hand . 
'His son ! 'Well , I'm sure ! said Mrs Gamp , 'you're a settlin' of it , Mr Chuffey . 
To your satigefaction , sir , I hope . 
But I wouldn't lay a new pincushion on it myself , sir , though you ARE so well informed . 
She smiled again , and entered on her ministration with her own particular urbanity . 
But for Mrs Gamp , it would have been a curiously silent party . 
Miss Pecksniff only spoke to her Augustus , and to him in whispers . 
Mrs Todgers was occupied in knitting , and seldom spoke . 
He looked round upon a sudden , and said 'Who's lying dead upstairs ? 'No one , said Merry , turning to him . 
'What is the matter ? We are all here . 
'All here ! cried the old man . 
Don't you recollect ? 'Recollect ! rejoined the old man , with a cry of grief . 
But they don't tell you . 
No , no , poor thing ! They don't tell you . 
So did he for a short time but then he repeated the same question with an eagerness that had a peculiar terror in it . 
'There's some one dead , he said , 'or dying and I want to knows who it is . 
Go see , go see ! Where's Jonas ? 'In the country , she replied . 
and then they heard him coming down again immediately . 
'They don't tell you , he said to Merry in his quavering voice , as he sat down again , and patted her upon the head . 
'They don't tell me either but I'll watch , I'll watch . 
They shall not hurt you don't be frightened . 
When you have sat up watching , I have sat up watching too . 
Aye , aye , I have ! he piped out , clenching his weak , shrivelled hand . 
She had brought them to bear upon those viands with such vigour that her face was in the highest state of inflammation , when she now saw fit to interpose . 
'Who's dead , indeed ! It wouldn't be no grievous loss if some one was , I think ! 'He's quiet now , Mrs Gamp , said Merry . 
'Oh , bother the old wictim , Mrs Chuzzlewit , replied that zealous lady , 'I ain't no patience with him . 
You give him his own way too much by half . 
as exceedingly conducive to repose , and highly beneficial to the performance of the nervous functions . 
Its effect in this instance was to render the patient so giddy and addle headed , that he could say nothing more which Mrs Gamp regarded as the triumph of her art . 
'There ! she said , loosening the old man's cravat , in consequence of his being rather black in the face , after this scientific treatment . 
'Now , I hope , you're easy in your mind . 
If you should turn at all faint we can soon rewive you , sir , I promige you . 
appeared to be disposed to differ from her views . 
'Ah , Mr Pinch ! said Miss Pecksniff . 
'It all comes of this unfortunate marriage . 
If my sister had not been so precipitate , and had not united herself to a Wretch , there would have been no Mr Chuffey in the house . 
I know what a sister's duties are , Mr Pinch , and I hope I always showed it in my practice . 
Augustus , my dear child , find my pocket handkerchief , and give it to me . 
Augustus obeyed , and took Mrs Todgers aside to pour his griefs into her friendly bosom . 
Contented she might have been , but humble she assuredly was not . 
Her face and manner experienced something so widely different from humility , that Tom could not help understanding and despising the base motives that were working in her breast . 
He turned away , and said to Ruth , that it was time for them to go . 
'I thank you ! said Merry . 
'It may do some good . 
Tom stopped , and looked at Merry . 
It was Jonas , she said timidly . 
'I had better not meet him on the stairs , perhaps , said Tom , drawing his sister's arm through his , and coming back a step or two . 
'I'll wait for him here , a moment . 
He had scarcely said it when the door opened , and Jonas entered . 
His wife came forward to receive him but he put her aside with his hand , and said in a surly tone 'I didn't know you'd got a party . 
'Oh dear ! she said , rising . 
'Pray don't let us intrude upon your domestic happiness ! That would be a pity . 
Augustus , my love , we will go , if you please . 
Mrs Todgers , unless you wish to remain here , we shall be happy to take you with us . 
It would be a pity , indeed , to spoil the bliss which this gentleman always brings with him , especially into his own home . 
'Charity ! Charity ! remonstrated her sister , in such a heartfelt tone that she might have been imploring her to show the cardinal virtue whose name she bore . 
'We know all about it . 
'WHAT did you say , sir ? cried Miss Pecksniff , sharply . 
'Didn't you hear ? retorted Jonas , lounging down upon a chair . 
'I am not a going to say it again . 
If you like to stay , you may stay . 
If you like to go , you may go . 
But if you stay , please to be civil . 
'Beast ! cried Miss Pecksniff , sweeping past him . 
'Augustus ! He is beneath your notice ! Augustus had been making some faint and sickly demonstration of shaking his fist . 
'Come away , child , screamed Miss Pecksniff , 'I command you ! The scream was elicited from her by Augustus manifesting an intention to return and grapple with him . 
His wife now faltered out that Tom had been waiting to see him and Tom advanced . 
As he most unquestionably would have done , but that his very passion and surprise made him irresolute , and gave Tom , in his calmness , an opportunity of being heard . 
'You have no cause to be violent , sir , said Tom . 
'Though what I wish to say relates to your own affairs , I know nothing of them , and desire to know nothing of them . 
Jonas was too enraged to speak . 
He held the door open and stamping his foot upon the ground , motioned Tom away . 
Hear what I have to say , if you are not a madman ! I gave you a letter the other day , when you were about to go abroad . 
'You Thief , you did ! retorted Jonas . 
'I'll pay you for the carriage of it one day , and settle an old score besides . 
I will ! 'Tut , tut , said Tom , 'you needn't waste words or threats . 
That I know nothing of it . 
Tom shook the dust of that house off his feet , without having mentioned Nadgett's name . 
But the fatality was of his own working the pit was of his own digging the gloom that gathered round him was the shadow of his own life . 
His wife had closed the door , and thrown herself before it , on the ground , upon her knees . 
She held up her hands to him now , and besought him not to be harsh with her , for she had interposed in fear of bloodshed . 
'So , so ! said Jonas , looking down upon her , as he fetched his breath . 
I have never seen him since I left home but once but twice before to day . 
'Oh ! sneered Jonas , catching at this correction . 
'But once , but twice , eh ? Which do you mean ? Twice and once , perhaps . 
Three times ! How many more , you lying jade ? As he made an angry motion with his hand , she shrunk down hastily . 
A suggestive action ! Full of a cruel truth ! 'How many more times ? he repeated . 
The other morning , and to day , and once besides . 
He was about to retort upon her , when the clock struck . 
If I find him in my house again , or find that you have seen him in anybody else's house , you'll repent it . 
If you are not deaf and dumb to everything that concerns me , unless you have my leave to hear and speak , you'll repent it . 
If you don't obey exactly what I order , you'll repent it . 
What's the time ? 'It struck eight a minute ago . 
I have lost some money , and that don't improve me . 
Put my supper in the little off room below , and have the truckle bed made . 
Keep the house quiet , and don't call me . 
Mind ! Don't call me . 
Don't let anybody call me . 
She said it should be done . 
Was that all ? 'All what ? You must be prying and questioning ! he angrily retorted . 
'What more do you want to know ? 'I want to know nothing , Jonas , but what you tell me . 
All hope of confidence between us has long deserted me ! 'Ecod , I should hope so ! he muttered . 
'But if you will tell me what you wish , I will be obedient and will try to please you . 
I make no merit of that , for I have no friend in my father or my sister , but am quite alone . 
I am very humble and submissive . 
You told me you would break my spirit , and you have done so . 
Do not break my heart too ! She ventured , as she said these words , to lay her hand upon his shoulder . 
When she had withdrawn he paced up and down the room several times but always with his right hand clenched , as if it held something which it did not , being empty . 
He was brooding in this chair , with his eyes cast down upon the ground , when Mrs Gamp came in to tell him that the little room was ready . 
Not being quite sure of her reception after interfering in the quarrel , Mrs Gamp , as a means of interesting and propitiating her patron , affected a deep solicitude in Mr Chuffey . 
'How is he now , sir ? she said . 
'Who ? cried Jonas , raising his head , and staring at her . 
'To be sure ! returned the matron with a smile and a curtsey . 
'What am I thinking of ! You wasn't here , sir , when he was took so strange . 
'Chuffey , eh ? said Jonas carelessly , seeing that she went up to the old , clerk , and looked at him . 
'Ha ! 'The creetur's head's so hot , said Mrs Gamp , 'that you might heat a flat iron at it . 
And no wonder I am sure , considerin' the things he said ! 'Said ! cried Jonas . 
Mrs Gamp nodded , made as if she were swallowing , and went on . 
'Why , the old fool's mad ! cried Jonas , much disturbed . 
'That's my opinion , sir , said Mrs Gamp , 'and I will not deceive you . 
, and should not have his liberty to wex and worrit your sweet lady as he does . 
'Why , who minds what he says ? retorted Jonas . 
'Still he is worritin' sir , said Mrs Gamp . 
'No one don't mind him , but he IS a ill conwenience . 
'Ecod you're right , said Jonas , looking doubtfully at the subject of this conversation . 
'I have half a mind to shut him up . 
Mrs Gamp rubbed her hands , and smiled , and shook her head , and sniffed expressively , as scenting a job . 
'Could you could you take care of such an idiot , now , in some spare room upstairs ? asked Jonas . 
Betsey Prig has nussed a many lunacies , and well she knows their ways , which puttin' 'em right close afore the fire , when fractious , is the certainest and most compoging . 
While Mrs Gamp discoursed to this effect , Jonas was walking up and down the room again , glancing covertly at the old clerk , as he did so . 
He now made a stop , and said 'I must look after him , I suppose , or I may have him doing some mischief . 
What say you ? 'Nothin' more likely ! Mrs Gamp replied . 
'As well I have experienged , I do assure you , sir . 
About nine or ten o'clock at night , say . 
Keep your eye upon him in the meanwhile , and don't talk about it . 
He's as mad as a March hare ! 'Madder ! cried Mrs Gamp . 
'A deal madder ! 'See to him , then take care that he does no harm and recollect what I have told you . 
'Mr Chuff , he muttered , 'it'll be pretty easy to be even with YOU . 
It's of no use doing things by halves , and as long as I stop here , I'll take good care of you . 
When I'm off you may say what you please . 
After pacing the little room from end to end several times , he sat down in another chair . 
'I say just now , but for anything I know , he may have been carrying on the same game all along . 
It was now growing dark . 
As the gloom of evening , deepening into night , came on , another dark shade emerging from within him seemed to overspread his face , and slowly change it . 
Slowly , slowly darker and darker more and more haggard creeping over him by little and little , until it was black night within him and without . 
The room in which he had shut himself up , was on the ground floor , at the back of the house . 
But it had an outlet in a neighbouring street . 
as his recognized apartment , it had been little troubled by Anthony Chuzzlewit and Son . 
The door into the court had not been open for a long , long time but the key had always hung in one place , and there it hung now . 
All this while he had been without his coat , and had nothing on his feet but his stockings . 
He now got softly into bed in the same state , and tossed from side to side to tumble it . 
In his restless condition that was easily done . 
In these he dressed himself at leisure . 
Lastly , he took out a common frock of coarse dark jean , which he drew over his own under clothing and a felt hat he had purposely left his own upstairs . 
He then sat himself down by the door , with the key in his hand , waiting . 
He had no light the time was dreary , long , and awful . 
The ringers were practicing in a neighbouring church , and the clashing of the bells was almost maddening . 
Footsteps in the court ! Two men . 
He fell back from the door on tiptoe , as if they could have seen him through its wooden panels . 
about a skeleton which had been dug up yesterday , in some work of excavation near at hand , and was supposed to be that of a murdered man . 
'So murder is not always found out , you see , they said to one another as they turned the corner . 
Hush ! He put the key into the lock , and turned it . 
He looked out passed out locked it after him . 
All was clear and quiet , as he fled away . 
He bargained for a seat outside this coach , and took it . 
And he quitted it no more until it was within a few miles of its destination , but occupied the same place all night . 
All night ! It is a common fancy that nature seems to sleep by night . 
There was not a blade of growing grass or corn , but watched and the quieter it was , the more intent and fixed its watch upon him seemed to be . 
Riding on among those sentinels of God , he slept , and did not change the purpose of his journey . 
If he forgot it in his troubled dreams , it came up steadily , and woke him . 
But it never woke him to remorse , or to abandonment of his design . 
The sun was welcome to him . 
There were life and motion , and a world astir , to divide the attention of Day . 
It was the eye of Night of wakeful , watchful , silent , and attentive Night , with so much leisure for the observation of his wicked thoughts that he dreaded most . 
There is no glare in the night . 
Even Glory shows to small advantage in the night , upon a crowded battle field . 
How then shows Glory's blood relation , bastard Murder ! Aye ! He made no compromise , and held no secret with himself now . 
He had come to do it . 
'Let me get down here' he said 'Short of the town , eh ! observed the coachman . 
'I may get down where I please , I suppose ? 'You got up to please yourself , and may get down to please yourself . 
It won't break our hearts to lose you , and it wouldn't have broken 'em if we'd never found you . 
The guard had alighted , and was waiting in the road to take his money . 
In the jealousy and distrust of what he contemplated , he thought this man looked at him with more than common curiosity 'What are you staring at ? said Jonas . 
'Not at a handsome man , returned the guard . 
'If you want your fortune told , I'll tell you a bit of it . 
That's a consolation for you . 
The guard jumped up to his seat at the same moment , and they drove off , laughing leaving him to stand in the road and shake his fist at them . 
Noon , afternoon , evening . 
At that serene and peaceful time two men , riding in a gig , came out of the city by a road not much frequented . 
It was the day on which Mr Pecksniff had agreed to dine with Montague . 
He had kept his appointment , and was now going home . 
His host was riding with him for a short distance meaning to return by a pleasant track , which Mr Pecksniff had engaged to show him , through some fields . 
He had hung about the inn yard while they were at dinner and had heard their orders given . 
They were loud and merry in their conversation , and might have been heard at some distance far above the sound of their carriage wheels or horses' hoofs . 
They came on noisily , to where a stile and footpath indicated their point of separation . 
Much too soon , said Mr Pecksniff . 
'But this is the place , my dear sir . 
Keep the path , and go straight through the little wood you'll come to . 
The path is narrower there , but you can't miss it . 
When shall I see you again ? Soon I hope ? 'I hope so , replied Montague . 
'Good night ! 'Good night . 
He was flushed with wine , but not gay . 
His scheme had succeeded , but he showed no triumph . 
that a shadowy veil was dropping round him , closing out all thoughts but the presentiment and vague foreknowledge of impending doom . 
He checked himself as hastily undecided whether to pursue the footpath , which was lonely and retired , or to go back by the road . 
The glory of the departing sun was on his face . 
The music of the birds was in his ears . 
Sweet wild flowers bloomed about him . 
Thatched roofs of poor men's homes were in the distance and an old grey spire , surmounted by a Cross , rose up between him and the coming night . 
Then he went down , down , down , into the dell . 
It brought him to the wood a close , thick , shadowy wood , through which the path went winding on , dwindling away into a slender sheep track . 
He paused before entering for the stillness of this spot almost daunted him . 
As the sunlight died away , and evening fell upon the wood , he entered it . 
Moving , here and there a bramble or a drooping bough which stretched across his path , he slowly disappeared . 
At intervals a narrow opening showed him passing on , or the sharp cracking of some tender branch denoted where he went then , he was seen or heard no more . 
Never more beheld by mortal eye or heard by mortal ear one man excepted . 
That man , parting the leaves and branches on the other side , near where the path emerged again , came leaping out soon afterwards . 
What had he left within the wood , that he sprang out of it as if it were a hell ! The body of a murdered man . 
In one thick solitary spot , it lay among the last year's leaves of oak and beech , just as it had fallen headlong down . 
But he quickly gained his feet again , and keeping underneath a hedge with his body bent , went running on towards the road . 
The road once reached , he fell into a rapid walk , and set on toward London . 
And he was not sorry for what he had done . 
He was frightened when he thought of it when did he not think of it ! but he was not sorry . 
He had a greater horror , infinitely greater , of that room than of the wood . 
Now that he was on his return to it , it seemed beyond comparison more dismal and more dreadful than the wood . 
His hideous secret was shut up in the room , and all its terrors were there to his thinking it was not in the wood at all . 
He sat down outside the door here , on a bench , beside a man who was smoking his pipe . 
Having called for some beer , and drunk , he offered it to this companion , who thanked him , and took a draught . 
He could not help thinking that , if the man had known all , he might scarcely have relished drinking out of the same cup with him . 
'A fine night , master ! said this person . 
'I didn't see it , was his hasty answer . 
'Didn't see it ? returned the man . 
'How the devil could I see it , if I was asleep ? 'Asleep ! Aye , aye . 
The man appeared surprised by his unexpected irritability , and saying no more , smoked his pipe in silence . 
They had not sat very long , when there was a knocking within . 
'What's that ? cried Jonas . 
'Can't say , I'm sure , replied the man . 
He made no further inquiry , for the last question had escaped him in spite of himself . 
At that instant , as if by some design and order of circumstances , the knocking had come . 
It still continued like a warning echo of the dread reality he had conjured up . 
As he could not sit and hear it , he paid for his beer and walked on again . 
Still he was not sorry . 
No. He had hated the man too much , and had been bent , too desperately and too long , on setting himself free . 
If the thing could have come over again , he would have done it again . 
His malignant and revengeful passions were not so easily laid . 
There was no more penitence or remorse within him now than there had been while the deed was brewing . 
Dread and fear were upon him , to an extent he had never counted on , and could not manage in the least degree . 
He was so horribly afraid of that infernal room at home . 
When the coach came up , which it soon did , he got a place outside and was carried briskly onward towards home . 
So far encouraged him , that he began to believe the body never would be found , and began to speculate on that probability . 
Hush ! It was but five o'clock . 
He had time enough to reach his own house unobserved , and before there were many people in the streets , if nothing had happened so far , tending to his discovery . 
The passage way was empty when his murderer's face looked into it . 
He stole on , to the door on tiptoe , as if he dreaded to disturb his own imaginary rest . 
As he turned the key with a trembling hand , and pushed the door softly open with his knee , a monstrous fear beset his mind . 
What if the murdered man were there before him ! He cast a fearful glance all round . 
But there was nothing there . 
He took off his disguise , tied it up in a bundle ready for carrying away and sinking in the river before night , and locked it up in a cupboard . 
These precautions taken , he undressed and went to bed . 
There were footsteps in the house . 
He heard the blinds drawn up , and shutters opened and now and then a stealthy tread outside his own door . 
He tried to call out , more than once , but his mouth was dry as if it had been filled with sand . 
At last he sat up in his bed , and cried 'Who's there ? It was his wife . 
He asked her what it was o'clock ? Nine . 
'Did did no one knock at my door yesterday ? he faltered . 
'Something disturbed me but unless you had knocked the door down , you would have got no notice from me . 
'No one , she replied . 
He had waited , almost breathless , for her answer . 
It was a relief to him , if anything could be . 
'Mr Nadgett wanted to see you , she said , 'but I told him you were tired , and had requested not to be disturbed . 
He said it was of little consequence , and went away . 
As I was opening my window to let in the cool air , I saw him passing through the street this morning , very early but he hasn't been again . 
He could not stop there for ever , and so joined them . 
His last glance at the glass had seen a tell tale face , but that might have been because of his anxious looking in it . 
He dared not look at them to see if they observed him , but he thought them very silent . 
And whatsoever guard he kept upon himself , he could not help listening , and showing that he listened . 
For he knew it must come . 
And his present punishment , and torture and distraction , were , to listen for its coming . 
Hush ! CHAPTER FORTY EIGHT BEARS TIDINGS OF MARTIN AND OF MARK , AS WELL AS OF A THIRD PERSON NOT QUITE UNKNOWN TO THE READER . 
It was even a pleasanter breakfast than usual and it was always a pleasant one . 
I begin to think he will never come home again . 
What a mysterious life that man does lead , to be sure ! 'Very strange . 
Is it not , Tom ? 'Really , said Tom , 'I hope it is only strange . 
I hope there may be nothing wrong in it . 
Sometimes I begin to be doubtful of that . 
'An early hour for visitors ! It must be John , I suppose . 
'I I don't think it was his knock , Tom , observed his little sister . 
'It surely can't be my employer suddenly arrived in town directed here by Mr Fips and come for the key of the office . 
The visitor was not less moved than Tom himself , and they shook hands a great many times , without another word being spoken on either side . 
Tom was the first to find his voice . 
'Mark Tapley , too ! said Tom , running towards the door , and shaking hands with somebody else . 
'My dear Mark , come in . 
How are you , Mark ? He don't look a day older than he used to do at the Dragon . 
How ARE you , Mark ? 'Uncommonly jolly , sir , thank'ee , returned Mr Tapley , all smiles and bows . 
'I hope I see you well , sir . 
'Good gracious me ! cried Tom , patting him tenderly on the back . 
'How delightful it is to hear his old voice again ! My dear Martin , sit down . 
Mr Chuzzlewit , my love . 
Mark Tapley from the Dragon , my dear . 
Good gracious me , what a surprise this is ! Sit down . 
'I remember the day we parted , Martin , as well as if it were yesterday , said Tom . 
Mark Tapley , my love , from the Dragon . 
More cups and saucers , if you please . 
Mr Tapley was the first to resume his composure . 
'Sit down , and take your breakfast , Mark , said Tom . 
'Make him sit down and take his breakfast , Martin . 
'Oh ! I gave him up , long ago , as incorrigible , Martin replied . 
'He takes his own way , Tom . 
You would excuse him , Miss Pinch , if you knew his value . 
'She knows it , bless you ! said Tom . 
'I have told her all about Mark Tapley . 
Have I not , Ruth ? 'Yes , Tom . 
'Not all , returned Martin , in a low voice . 
and if there's a Werb alive , I'm it . 
For I'm always a bein' , sometimes a doin' , and continually a sufferin' . 
'Not jolly yet ? asked Tom , with a smile . 
'Why , I was rather so , over the water , sir , returned Mr Tapley 'and not entirely without credit . 
But Human Natur' is in a conspiracy again' me I can't get on . 
But it was denied him . 
Mr Tapley took this occasion of looking about him with a grin , and subsequently attacking the breakfast , with an appetite not at all expressive of blighted hopes , or insurmountable despondency . 
'For your faithful stewardship in the trust I left with you , Tom , he said , 'and for all your goodness and disinterestedness , I can never thank you enough . 
And if they had known how much Tom felt but that no human creature ever knew they would have set some store by him . 
Tom changed the topic of discourse . 
He was sorry he could not pursue it , as it gave Martin pleasure but he was unable , at that moment . 
No drop of envy or bitterness was in his soul but he could not master the firm utterance of her name . 
He inquired what Martin's projects were . 
'No longer to make your fortune , Tom , said Martin , 'but to try to live . 
I tried that once in London , Tom and failed . 
If you will give me the benefit of your advice and friendly counsel , I may succeed better under your guidance . 
I will do anything Tom , anything , to gain a livelihood by my own exertions . 
My hopes do not soar above that , now . 
'Your hopes do not soar above that ! cried Tom . 
How can you talk so ! They soar up to the time when you will be happy with her , Martin . 
They soar up to the time when you will be able to claim her , Martin . 
They soar up to the time when you will not be able to believe that you were ever cast down in spirit , or poor in pocket , Martin . 
Advice , and friendly counsel ! Why , of course . 
You shall consult John Westlock . 
I am a man of occupation now , you know , said Tom , with his pleasantest smile 'and have no time to lose . 
Your hopes don't soar higher than that ? I dare say they don't . 
I know you , pretty well . 
They'll be soaring out of sight soon , Martin , and leaving all the rest of us leagues behind . 
'Aye ! But I may be a little changed , said Martin , 'since you knew me pretty well , Tom . 
'What nonsense ! exclaimed Tom . 
'Why should you be changed ? You talk as if you were an old man . 
I never heard such a fellow ! Come to John Westlock's , come . 
Come along , Mark Tapley . 
It's Mark's doing , I have no doubt and it serves you right for having such a grumbler for your companion . 
'There's no credit to be got through being jolly with YOU , Mr Pinch , anyways , said Mark , with his face all wrinkled up with grins . 
'A parish doctor might be jolly with you . 
It appeared to be a mysterious stranger , for John shut that door as he said it , and led them into the next room . 
He was very much delighted , though , to see Mark Tapley and received Martin with his own frank courtesy . 
But Martin felt that he did not inspire John Westlock with any unusual interest and twice or thrice observed that he looked at Tom Pinch doubtfully not to say compassionately . 
He thought , and blushed to think , that he knew the cause of this . 
'I apprehend you are engaged , said Martin , when Tom had announced the purport of their visit . 
'If you will allow me to come again at your own time , I shall be glad to do so . 
'I AM engaged , replied John , with some reluctance 'but the matter on which I am engaged is one , to say the truth , more immediately demanding your knowledge than mine . 
'It relates to a member of your family , and is of a serious nature . 
'And in the meantime , said Tom , 'I must really take myself off , without any further ceremony . 
'Is your business so very particular , asked Martin , 'that you cannot remain with us for half an hour ? I wish you could . 
'And what do you mean to do , Mark ? asked Tom , as they walked on together . 
'Mean to do , sir ? returned Mr Tapley . 
What course of life do you mean to pursue ? 'Well , sir , said Mr Tapley . 
'The fact is , that I have been a thinking rather of the matrimonial line , sir . 
'You don't say so , Mark ! cried Tom . 
I've been a turnin' of it over . 
'And who is the lady , Mark ? 'The which , sir ? said Mr Tapley . 
'I don't know any of your flames , Mark . 
Except Mrs Lupin , indeed . 
'Well , sir ! retorted Mr Tapley . 
'Well , sir ! I used to think so myself , once , said Mark . 
'But I ain't so clear about it now . 
A dear , sweet creetur , sir ! 'A dear , sweet creature ? To be sure she is , cried Tom . 
'But she always was a dear , sweet creature , was she not ? 'WAS she not ! assented Mr Tapley . 
You know me , Mr Pinch , sir there ain't a gentleman alive as knows me better . 
You're acquainted with my constitution , and you're acquainted with my weakness . 
My constitution is , to be jolly and my weakness is , to wish to find a credit in it . 
'No doubt , replied Tom . 
'We knew that perfectly well when we spoke on this subject long ago before you left the Dragon . 
I goes into the world , sir , wery boyant , and I tries this . 
as there's no credit to be got THERE . 
I might have took warning by this , and gave it up but I didn't . 
I gets to the U nited States and then I DO begin , I won't deny it , to feel some little credit in sustaining my spirits . 
What follows ? Jest as I'm a beginning to come out , and am a treadin' on the werge , my master deceives me . 
'Deceives you ! cried Tom . 
'Swindles me , retorted Mr Tapley with a beaming face . 
'Turns his back on everything as made his service a creditable one , and leaves me high and dry , without a leg to stand upon . 
In which state I returns home . 
'If your philosophy , Mark , said Tom , who laughed heartily at this speech , 'be the oddest I ever heard of , it is not the least wise . 
Mrs Lupin has said yes , of course ? 'Why , no , sir , replied Mr Tapley 'she hasn't gone so far as that yet . 
Which I attribute principally to my not havin' asked her . 
But we was wery agreeable together comfortable , I may say the night I come home . 
It's all right , sir . 
'Well ! said Tom , stopping at the Temple Gate . 
'I wish you joy , Mark , with all my heart . 
I shall see you again to day , I dare say . 
Good bye for the present . 
'Good bye , sir ! Good bye , Mr Pinch ! he added by way of soliloquy , as he stood looking after him . 
'Although you ARE a damper to a honourable ambition . 
You little think it , but you was the first to dash my hopes . 
Pecksniff would have built me up for life , but your sweet temper pulled me down . 
Good bye , Mr Pinch ! While these confidences were interchanged between Tom Pinch and Mark , Martin and John Westlock were very differently engaged . 
I cannot talk freely with you on any subject unless I relieve my mind of what oppresses it just now . 
'I had no intention , replied John , 'of conveying any such impression to you , and am exceedingly sorry to have done so . 
'But you entertain it ? said Martin . 
It is much easier to slight than to appreciate Tom Pinch . 
on which the speaker felt so strongly . 
'I grew into the knowledge of Tom , he pursued , 'as I grew towards manhood and I have learned to love him as something , infinitely better than myself . 
I did not think that you understood him when we met before . 
I did not think that you greatly cared to understand him . 
The instances of this which I observed in you were , like my opportunities for observation , very trivial and were very harmless , I dare say . 
But they were not agreeable to me , and they forced themselves upon me for I was not upon the watch for them , believe me . 
You will say , added John , with a smile , as he subsided into more of his accustomed manner , 'that I am not by any means agreeable to you . 
I can only assure you , in reply , that I would not have originated this topic on any account . 
'If you will excuse me for one moment , said John , rising , 'I will beg you almost immediately to come into the next room . 
Upon that , he left Martin to himself , in a state of considerable astonishment and soon came back again to fulfil his promise . 
Accompanying him into the next room , Martin found there a third person no doubt the stranger of whom his host had spoken when Tom Pinch introduced him . 
He was a young man with deep black hair and eyes . 
He was gaunt and pale and evidently had not long recovered from a severe illness . 
He stood as Martin entered , but sat again at John's desire . 
His eyes were cast downward and but for one glance at them both , half in humiliation and half in entreaty , he kept them so , and sat quite still and silent . 
'This person's name is Lewsome , said John Westlock , 'whom I have mentioned to you as having been seized with an illness at the inn near here , and undergone so much . 
He has had a very hard time of it , ever since he began to recover but , as you see , he is now doing well . 
As he did not move or speak , and John Westlock made a pause , Martin , not knowing what to say , said that he was glad to hear it . 
I have already told you that he informed me before he was removed from the Inn , that he had a secret to disclose to me which lay heavy on his mind . 
He has the paper in his breast , I believe , at this moment . 
The young man touched it hastily in corroboration of the fact . 
'It will be well to leave that in our charge , perhaps , said John . 
'But do not mind it now . 
As he said this , he held up his hand to bespeak Martin's attention . 
'He was my grandfather's brother . 
'I fear he was made away with . 
Murdered ! 'My God ! said Martin . 
'By whom ? The young man , Lewsome , looked up in his face , and casting down his eyes again , replied 'I fear , by me . 
'By you ? cried Martin . 
'Not by my act , but I fear by my means . 
'Speak out ! said Martin , 'and speak the truth . 
'I fear this IS the truth . 
While I was in his employment I became acquainted with Jonas Chuzzlewit . 
He is the principal in this deed . 
'What do you mean ? demanded Martin , sternly . 
'Do you know he is the son of the old man of whom you have spoken ? 'I do , he answered . 
He remained silent for some moments , when he resumed at the point where he had left off . 
'I have reason to know it for I have often heard him wish his old father dead , and complain of his being wearisome to him , and a drag upon him . 
He was in the habit of doing so , at a place of meeting we had three or four of us at night . 
There was no good in the place you may suppose , when you hear that he was the chief of the party . 
I wish I had died myself , and never seen it ! He stopped again and again resumed as before . 
'We met to drink and game not for large sums , but for sums that were large to us . 
'One night he came there in a very bad humour . 
He had been greatly tried , he said , by the old man that day . 
He swore that he had often thought of mixing something with the stuff he took for his cough , which should help him to die easily . 
He stopped once more , and was silent for so long an interval that John Westlock said 'Go on . 
Martin had never removed his eyes from his face , but was so absorbed in horror and astonishment that he could not speak . 
We were alone then , too being there before the usual hour of assembling . 
There was no appointment between us but I think I went there to meet him , and I know he came there to meet me . 
He was reading a newspaper when I went in , and nodded to me without looking up , or leaving off reading . 
I sat down opposite and close to him . 
He said , immediately , that he wanted me to get him some of two sorts of drugs . 
One that was instantaneous in its effect of which he wanted very little . 
One that was slow and not suspicious in appearance of which he wanted more . 
While he was speaking to me he still read the newspaper . 
He said Drugs , and never used any other word . 
Neither did I. 'This all agrees with what I have heard before , observed John Westlock . 
, and what did it matter to me ? He could get them without my aid at half a hundred places , but not so easily as he could get them of me . 
He might not want them at all , he said , and he had no present idea of using them but he wished to have them by him . 
All this time he still read the newspaper . 
We talked about the price . 
He was to forgive me a small debt I was quite in his power and to pay me five pounds and there the matter dropped , through others coming in . 
We have never met since . 
I only know that the poor old father died soon afterwards , just as he would have died from this cause and that I have undergone , and suffer now , intolerable misery . 
Nothing' he added , stretching out his hands , 'can paint my misery ! It is well deserved , but nothing can paint it . 
With that he hung his head , and said no more , wasted and wretched , he was not a creature upon whom to heap reproaches that were unavailing . 
'Let him remain at hand , said Martin , turning from him 'but out of sight , in Heaven's name ! 'He will remain here , John whispered . 
'Come with me ! Softly turning the key upon him as they went out , he conducted Martin into the adjoining room , in which they had been before . 
This appeared so plain , that they agreed upon it without difficulty but instead of deriving the least assistance from this source , they found that it embarrassed them the more . 
They knew nothing of the real parties who possessed this power . 
The only person before them was Tom's landlord . 
They had no right to question Tom's landlord , even if they could find him , which , according to Tom's account , it would not be easy to do . 
Besides , there was the great difficulty and responsibility of moving at all in the matter . 
Mr Pecksniff had been there at the time as Tom immediately remembered , when he came back in the afternoon , and shared their counsels and there had been no secrecy about it . 
And the nature of Mr Pecksniff's views in reference to his own son in law might be easily reckoned upon . 
In a word , they were wholly unable to discover any outlet from this maze of difficulty , which did not lie through some perplexed and entangled thicket . 
, they unanimously resolved that the old clerk was the man they wanted . 
The question then became , who of those about the old clerk had had most influence with him that night ? Tom said his young mistress clearly . 
But Tom and all of them shrunk from the thought of entrapping her , and making her the innocent means of bringing retribution on her cruel husband . 
Was there nobody else ? Why yes . 
They caught at this immediately . 
Here was a new way out , developed in a quarter until then overlooked . 
Tom returned home , that he might lose no opportunity of having an interview with Nadgett , by being absent in the event of his reappearance . 
And when he had done so , they all signed it , and taking it from him , of his free will , locked it in a place of safety . 
if he could help to do him justice in the smallest particular . 
He succeeded , after great trouble , in engaging two garrets for himself and Mark , situated in a court in the Strand , not far from Temple Bar . 
It was swept and garnished for the reception of a visitor . 
For only keep the bedstead always in your mind and you were safe . 
That was the grand secret . 
Visitors were much assisted in their cautious efforts to preserve an unflagging recollection of this piece of furniture , by its size which was great . 
One gentleman , coming on the usual hasty errand , had said indeed , that they looked like guardian angels 'watching of her in her sleep . 
But that , as Mrs Gamp said , 'was his first and he never repeated the sentiment , though he often repeated his visit . 
The chairs in Mrs Gamp's apartment were extremely large and broad backed , which was more than a sufficient reason for there being but two in number . 
with the coals , and mounting gradually upwards to the spirits , which , from motives of delicacy , she kept in a teapot . 
The last was a full length , in order that the likeness might be rendered more obvious and forcible by the introduction of the wooden leg . 
'There ! Now drat you , Betsey , don't be long ! said Mrs Gamp , apostrophizing her absent friend . 
'For I can't abear to wait , I do assure you . 
Even the snuff with which she now refreshed herself , was so choice in quality that she took a second pinch . 
'There's the little bell a ringing now , said Mrs Gamp , hurrying to the stair head and looking over . 
'Betsey Prig , my why it's that there disapintin' Sweedlepipes , I do believe . 
'Yes , it's me , said the barber in a faint voice 'I've just come in . 
'You're always a comin' in , I think , muttered Mrs Gamp to herself , 'except wen you're a goin' out . 
I ha'n't no patience with that man ! 'Mrs Gamp , said the barber . 
'I say ! Mrs Gamp ! 'Well , cried Mrs Gamp , impatiently , as she descended the stairs . 
'You recollect , said Poll . 
'You recollect young 'Not young Wilkins ! cried Mrs Gamp . 
'Don't say young Wilkins , wotever you do . 
If young Wilkins's wife is took 'It isn't anybody's wife , exclaimed the little barber . 
'Bailey , young Bailey ! 'Why , wot do you mean to say that chit's been a doin' of ? retorted Mrs Gamp , sharply . 
'Stuff and nonsense , Mrs Sweedlepipes ! 'He hasn't been a doing anything ! exclaimed poor Poll , quite desperate . 
'What do you catch me up so short for , when you see me put out to that extent that I can hardly speak ? He'll never do anything again . 
The first time I ever see that boy , said Poll , 'I charged him too much for a red poll . 
I asked him three halfpence for a penny one , because I was afraid he'd beat me down . 
'And what a clever boy he was ! he said . 
Wot were they a talkin' on , and wot was in the papers ? 'All about it ! cried the barber . 
'What else do you suppose ? Him and his master were upset on a journey , and he was carried to Salisbury , and was breathing his last when the account came away . 
That's the worst of it to me but that ain't all . 
His master can't be found . 
is advertised for , too . 
Some say he's slipped off , to join his friend abroad some say he mayn't have got away yet and they're looking for him high and low . 
Their office is a smash a swindle altogether . 
But what's a Life Assurance office to a Life ! And what a Life Young Bailey's was ! 'He was born into a wale , said Mrs Gamp , with philosophical coolness . 
'and he lived in a wale and he must take the consequences of sech a sitiwation . 
But don't you hear nothink of Mr Chuzzlewit in all this ? 'No , said Poll , 'nothing to speak of . 
His name wasn't printed as one of the board , though some people say it was just going to be . 
Some believe he was took in , and some believe he was one of the takers in but however that may be , they can't prove nothing against him . 
And they do say that he looked like Death , owing to his losses . 
'Oh ! You're a talkin' about it , are you ! observed that lady . 
'Well , I hope you've got it over , for I ain't interested in it myself . 
And further , 'that it was quite aggrawation enough to be made late when one was dropping for one's tea , without hearing on it again . 
But Betsey Prig expected pickled salmon . 
'Lord bless you , Betsey Prig , your words is true . 
Which had been happily accomplished , in High Holborn , to the breathless interest of a hackney coach stand . 
'And don't go a droppin' none of your snuff in it , said Mrs Prig . 
'In gruel , barley water , apple tea , mutton broth , and that , it don't signify . 
But I don't relish it myself . 
'And wot if they are ! said Mrs Gamp 'Nothing if they are , said Mrs Prig . 
'But don't deny it , Sairah . 
'Who deniges of it ? Mrs Gamp inquired . 
Mrs Prig returned no answer . 
'WHO deniges of it , Betsey ? Mrs Gamp inquired again . 
Then Mrs Gamp , by reversing the question , imparted a deeper and more awful character of solemnity to the same . 
For a quarrel can be taken up at any time , but a limited quantity of salmon cannot . 
The tea was already made , Mrs Gamp was not long over the salad , and they were soon at the height of their repast . 
The temper of both parties was improved , for the time being , by the enjoyments of the table . 
, and Mrs Gamp having cleared away , produced the teapot from the top shelf , simultaneously with a couple of wine glasses , they were quite amiable . 
'Betsey , said Mrs Gamp , filling her own glass and passing the teapot , 'I will now propoge a toast . 
My frequent pardner , Betsey Prig ! 'Which , altering the name to Sairah Gamp I drink , said Mrs Prig , 'with love and tenderness . 
From this moment symptoms of inflammation began to lurk in the nose of each lady and perhaps , notwithstanding all appearances to the contrary , in the temper also . 
'Well ! said Mrs Prig , with a short laugh . 
'I'm glad of that , at any rate . 
'Why should you be glad of that , Betsey ? Mrs Gamp retorted , warmly . 
Mrs Gamp observed it , however , and came to a premature close in consequence . 
, but of keeping a considerable remainder for the service of her friends . 
She therefore assumed an air of greater patronage and importance , as she went on to answer Mrs Prig a little more in detail . 
'Mr Chuffey , Betsey , said Mrs Gamp , 'is weak in his mind . 
Will you undertake it , at your own price , day and night , and by your own self ? No , I says , I will not . 
Do not reckon on it . 
There is , I says , but one creetur in the world as I would undertake on sech terms , and her name is Harris . 
But , I says , I am acquainted with a friend , whose name is Betsey Prig , that I can recommend , and will assist me . 
Betsey , I says , is always to be trusted under me , and will be guided as I could desire . 
Here Mrs Prig , without any abatement of her offensive manner again counterfeited abstraction of mind , and stretched out her hand to the teapot . 
It was more than Mrs Gamp could bear . 
Mrs Gamp resumed 'Mrs Harris , Betsey 'Bother Mrs Harris ! said Betsey Prig . 
Then Mrs Gamp rose morally and physically rose and denounced her . 
'You had better , ma'am , said Mrs Gamp . 
'Do you know who you're talking to , ma'am ? inquired her visitor . 
'Aperiently , said Mrs Gamp , surveying her with scorn from head to foot , 'to Betsey Prig . 
Go along with you ! 'And YOU was a goin' to take me under you ! cried Mrs Prig , surveying Mrs Gamp from head to foot in her turn . 
'You had better blush a little for yourself , while you ARE about it ! said Mrs Prig . 
'And that's what I was wanted for , is it ? cried Mrs Prig , triumphantly . 
But you'll find yourself deceived . 
I won't go near him . 
We shall see how you get on without me . 
I won't have nothink to do with him . 
'You never spoke a truer word than that ! said Mrs Gamp . 
Likewise of seeing in her own apartment , in the place of Mrs Prig , Mr Sweedlepipe and two gentlemen . 
In his fright , he's been a straining himself all to bits , drawing more water than he could drink in a twelvemonth . 
But the words she spoke of Mrs Harris , lambs could not forgive . 
John Westlock , taking a chair , sat down on one side of Mrs Gamp . 
Martin , taking the foot of the bed , supported her on the other . 
'You wonder what we want , I daresay , observed John . 
'I'll tell you presently , when you have recovered . 
It's not pressing , for a few minutes or so . 
How do you find yourself ? Better ? Mrs Gamp shed more tears , shook her head and feebly pronounced Mrs Harris's name . 
'Have a little John was at a loss what to call it . 
'It ain't tea , said Mrs Gamp . 
'Physic of some sort , I suppose , cried John . 
Mrs Gamp was prevailed upon to take a glassful . 
'On condition , she passionately observed , 'as Betsey never has another stroke of work from me . 
'Certainly not , said John . 
'She shall never help to nurse ME . 
'That was a narrow escape , Mrs Gamp . 
'Narrer , in deed ! she returned . 
'It was only my having the night , and hearin' of him in his wanderins and her the day , that saved it . 
'You know it is not true . 
'Isn't true ! cried Mrs Gamp . 
That's where it hurts me , Mr Westlock , Mrs Gamp replied holding out her glass unconsciously , while Martin filled it . 
'Chosen to help you with Mr Lewsome ! said John . 
'Chosen to help you with Mr Chuffey ! 'Chose once , but chose no more , cried Mrs Gamp . 
'No pardnership with Betsey Prig agen , sir ! 'No , no , said John . 
'I don't know as it ever would have done , sir , Mrs Gamp replied , with a solemnity peculiar to a certain stage of intoxication . 
'Now that the marks , by which Mrs Gamp is supposed to have meant mask , 'is off that creetur's face , I do not think it ever would have done . 
There are reagions in families for keeping things a secret , Mr Westlock , and havin' only them about you as you knows you can repoge in . 
Who could repoge in Betsey Prig , arter her words of Mrs Harris , setting in that chair afore my eyes ! 'Quite true , said John 'quite . 
I hope you have time to find another assistant , Mrs Gamp ? Between her indignation and the teapot , her powers of comprehending what was said to her began to fail . 
'To morrow evenin' , sir , I waits upon his friends . 
Mr Chuzzlewit apinted it from nine to ten . 
'From nine to ten , said John , with a significant glance at Martin . 
'and then Mr Chuffey retires into safe keeping , does he ? 'He needs to be kep safe , I do assure you , Mrs Gamp replied with a mysterious air . 
'Other people besides me has had a happy deliverance from Betsey Prig . 
I little know'd that woman . 
She'd have let it out ! 'Let HIM out , you mean , said John . 
'Do I ! retorted Mrs Gamp . 
'Oh ! The severely ironical character of this reply was strengthened by a very slow nod , and a still slower drawing down of the corners of Mrs Gamp's mouth . 
She added with extreme stateliness of manner after indulging in a short doze 'But I am a keepin' of you gentlemen , and time is precious . 
When Mrs Gamp had invested herself with these appendages she returned to her chair , and sitting down again , declared herself quite ready . 
'It's a 'appiness to know as one can benefit the poor sweet creetur , she observed , 'I'm sure . 
It isn't all as can . 
Her nap was also broken at intervals like the fabled slumbers of Friar Bacon , by the dropping of the other patten , and of the umbrella . 
But when she had got rid of those incumbrances , her sleep was peaceful . 
Mrs Gamp was heard to murmur 'Mrs Harris' in her sleep . 
'Rely upon it , whispered John , looking cautiously towards her , 'that you shall question this old clerk , though you go as Mrs Harris herself . 
Let Jonas Chuzzlewit look to himself and let her sleep as long as she likes . 
We shall gain our end in good time . 
If he had been her father , Tom said , he could not have taken a greater interest in her . 
But although Tom and his sister were extremely conversational , they were less lively , and less cheerful , than usual . 
Tom had no idea that this originated with Ruth , but took it for granted that he was rather dull himself . 
In truth he was for the lightest cloud upon the Heaven of her quiet mind , cast its shadow upon Tom . 
And there was a cloud on little Ruth that evening . 
When Tom was looking in another direction , her bright eyes , stealing on towards his face , would sparkle still more brightly than their custom was , and then grow dim . 
Anticipating who it was , Tom went to open it and he and Martin came back into the room together . 
Tom looked surprised , for in answer to his cordial greeting Martin had hardly spoken a word . 
Ruth also saw that there was something strange in the manner of their visitor , and raised her eyes inquiringly to Tom's face , as if she were seeking an explanation there . 
Tom shook his head , and made the same mute appeal to Martin . 
Martin did not sit down but walked up to the window , and stood there looking out . 
He turned round after a few moments to speak , but hastily averted his head again , without doing so . 
'What has happened , Martin ? Tom anxiously inquired . 
'My dear fellow , what bad news do you bring ? 'Oh , Tom ! replied Martin , in a tone of deep reproach . 
'To hear you feign that interest in anything that happens to me , hurts me even more than your ungenerous dealing . 
'My ungenerous dealing ! Martin ! My Tom could say no more . 
'I protest , as I must die , said Martin , 'that I grieve over the loss of what I thought you and have no anger in the recollection of my own injuries . 
It is only at such a time , and after such a discovery , that we know the full measure of our old regard for the subject of it . 
I swear , little as I showed it little as I know I showed it that when I had the least consideration for you , Tom , I loved you like a brother . 
'Martin , he said , 'I don't know what is in your mind , or who has abused it , or by what extraordinary means . 
But the means are false . 
There is no truth whatever in the impression under which you labour . 
It is a delusion from first to last and I warn you that you will deeply regret the wrong you do me . 
I can honestly say that I have been true to you , and to myself . 
You will be very sorry for this . 
Indeed , you will be very sorry for it , Martin . 
'I AM sorry , returned Martin , shaking his head . 
'I think I never knew what it was to be sorry in my heart , until now . 
I do not intreat you , therefore , to give me that satisfaction as a favour , Martin , but I ask it of you as a right . 
'My own eyes are my witnesses , returned Martin . 
'Am I to believe them ? 'No , said Tom , calmly . 
'Not if they accuse me . 
Your own manner , pursued Martin . 
'Am I to believe THEM ? 'No , replied Tom , calmly . 
'Not if they accuse me . 
But they never have accused me . 
Whoever has perverted them to such a purpose , has wronged me almost as cruelly' his calmness rather failed him here 'as you have done . 
'I came here , said Martin 'and I appeal to your good sister to hear me 'Not to her , interrupted Tom . 
'Pray , do not appeal to her . 
She will never believe you . 
He drew her arm through his own , as he said it . 
'I believe it , Tom ! 'No , no , cried Tom , 'of course not . 
Why , tut , tut , tut . 
What a silly little thing you are ! 'I never meant , said Martin , hastily , 'to appeal to you against your brother . 
Do not think me so unmanly and unkind . 
I merely appealed to you to hear my declaration , that I came here for no purpose of reproach I have not one reproach to vent but in deep regret . 
'Tut , tut , said Tom , stopping her as she was about to speak . 
Why should you mind ? He is sure to be set right at last . 
'Heaven bless the day that sets me right ! cried Martin , 'if it could ever come ! 'Amen ! said Tom . 
'And it will ! Martin paused , and then said in a still milder voice 'You have chosen for yourself , Tom , and will be relieved by our parting . 
It is not an angry one . 
There is no anger on my side 'There is none on mine , said Tom . 
It is merely what you have brought about , and worked to bring about . 
I say again , you have chosen for yourself . 
You have made the choice that might have been expected in most people situated as you are , but which I did not expect in you . 
For that , perhaps , I should blame my own judgment more than you . 
There is wealth and favour worth having , on one side and there is the worthless friendship of an abandoned , struggling fellow , on the other . 
You were free to make your election , and you made it and the choice was not difficult . 
'Be just , said Tom who , had not removed his mild gaze from Martin's face since the commencement of this last address 'be just even in your injustice , Martin . 
You have not yet told me what your accusation is ! 'Why should I ? returned Martin , waving his hand , and moving towards the door . 
'You could not know it the better for my dwelling on it , and though it would be really none the worse , it might seem to me to be . 
Bygones shall be bygones between us . 
All good go with you , Tom ! I 'You leave me so ? You can leave me so , can you ? said Tom . 
'I you you have chosen for yourself , Tom ! I I hope it was a rash choice , Martin faltered . 
I am sure it was ! Good bye ! And he was gone . 
Tom led his little sister to her chair , and sat down in his own . 
He took his book , and read , or seemed to read . 
Presently he said aloud , turning a leaf as he spoke 'He will be very sorry for this . 
And a tear stole down his face , and dropped upon the page . 
Ruth nestled down beside him on her knees , and clasped her arms about his neck . 
'No , Tom ! No , no ! Be comforted ! Dear Tom ! 'I am quite comforted , said Tom . 
'It will be set right . 
'Such a cruel , bad return ! cried Ruth . 
'No , no , said Tom . 
But it will be set right . 
More closely yet , she nestled down about him and wept as if her heart would break . 
'Why do you hide your face , my dear ! Then in a burst of tears , it all broke out at last . 
'Oh Tom , dear Tom , I know your secret heart . 
I have found it out you couldn't hide the truth from me . 
All its pathetic eloquence was in the silent touch . 
In spite of all , you have been so cruelly mistaken . 
It was not very long before she and Tom were sitting side by side , and she was looking with an earnest quietness in Tom's face . 
Then Tom spoke to her thus , cheerily , though gravely 'I am very glad , my dear , that this has passed between us . 
, but because it relieves my mind of a great weight . 
Tom's eyes glistened when he spoke of her affection and he kissed her on the cheek . 
As something that might possibly have happened under very different circumstances , but which can never be . 
'By her own choice and free consent , my love , she is betrothed to Martin and was , long before either of them knew of my existence . 
You would have her betrothed to me ? 'Yes , she said directly . 
'Yes , rejoined Tom , 'but that might be setting it wrong , instead of right . 
But there is a much higher justice than poetical justice , my dear , and it does not order events upon the same principle . 
Would you like me to become one of that sort of people ? 'No , Tom . 
But still I know , she added timidly , 'that this is a sorrow to you in your own better way . 
Tom thought of disputing the position . 
But it would have been mere folly , and he gave it up . 
'My dear , said Tom , 'I will repay your affection with the Truth and all the Truth . 
It is a sorrow to me . 
I have proved it to be so sometimes , though I have always striven against it . 
It is sorrowful to me to contemplate my dream which I always knew was a dream , even when it first presented itself but the realities about me are not to blame . 
They are the same as they were . 
No , said Tom stoutly . 
Not less happy , Ruth ! She could not speak to him , but she loved him , as he well deserved . 
Even as he deserved , she loved him . 
'She will open Martin's eyes , said Tom , with a glow of pride , 'and that will be set right . 
Nothing will persuade her , I know , that I have betrayed him . 
It will be set right through her , and he will be very sorry for it . 
Our secret , Ruth , is our own , and lives and dies with us . 
And in her prayers and in her sleep good times to be remembered with such fervour , Tom ! his name was uppermost . 
When he was left alone , Tom pondered very much on this discovery of hers , and greatly wondered what had led her to it . 
'Because , thought Tom , 'I have been so very careful . 
Of course I knew that she was intelligent and quick , and for that reason was more upon my guard but I was not in the least prepared for this . 
I am sure her discovery has been sudden too . 
Dear me ! said Tom . 
'It's a most singular instance of penetration ! Tom could not get it out of his head . 
There it was , when his head was on his pillow . 
Tom little thought how natural it was . 
Tom little knew that there was that in Ruth's own heart , but newly set there , which had helped her to the reading of his mystery . 
Ah , Tom ! He didn't understand the whispers of the Temple Fountain , though he passed it every day . 
But she said it was the brightest morning ever seen and so it was and if it had been otherwise , she would have made it so to Tom . 
She might have been up all night , collecting it for his entertainment . 
And in short , as Tom said , with a confidence in his own assertion which amounted to a defiance of the public in general , there never was such a little woman . 
It was impossible to resist her . 
She put such enticing questions to him about books , and about dates of churches , and about organs and about the Temple , and about all kinds of things . 
to that degree , that the Temple looked quite blank and solitary when he parted from her at the gate . 
'No Mr Fips's friend to day , I suppose , thought Tom , as he ascended the stairs . 
Not yet , at any rate , for the door was closed as usual , and Tom opened it with his key . 
It looked a different place , it was so orderly and neat . 
Tom felt some pride in comtemplating the change he had wrought , though there was no one to approve or disapprove of it . 
So with pens and ruler , and compasses and india rubber , and pencil , and black ink , and red ink , Tom worked away all the morning . 
'So I'll keep it to myself , said Tom , with a sigh . 
'I'll keep it to myself . 
He had laboured away another hour or more , when he heard a footstep in the entry , down below . 
'Ah ! said Tom , looking towards the door 'time was , not long ago either , when that would have set me wondering and expecting . 
But I have left off now . 
The footstep came on , up the stairs . 
'Thirty six , thirty seven , thirty eight , said Tom , counting . 
Nobody ever comes past the thirty eighth stair . 
The person did , certainly , but only to take breath for up the footstep came again . 
Forty , forty one , forty two , and so on . 
As the tread advanced , Tom looked impatiently and eagerly towards it . 
'You have expected me , said Martin , 'a long time . 
'I was told that my employer would arrive soon , said Tom 'but 'I know . 
You were ignorant who he was . 
I am glad it has been so well observed . 
I intended to have been with you much sooner . 
I thought the time had come . 
I thought I could know no more , and no worse , of him , than I did on that day when I saw you last . 
He had by this time come up to Tom , and now he grasped his hand . 
'I have lived in his house , Pinch , and had him fawning on me days and weeks and months . 
I have suffered him to treat me like his tool and instrument . 
You know it you have seen me there . 
I have undergone ten thousand times as much as I could have endured if I had been the miserable weak old man he took me for . 
I have seen him offer love to Mary . 
You know it who better who better , my true heart ! I have had his base soul bare before me , day by day , and have not betrayed myself once . 
I never could have undergone such torture but for looking forward to this time . 
He stopped , even in the passion of his speech if that can be called passion which was so resolute and steady to press Tom's hand again . 
Then he said , in great excitement 'Close the door , close the door . 
He will not be long after me , but may come too soon . 
The time now drawing on , said the old man , hurriedly his eyes and whole face brightening as he spoke 'will make amends for all . 
I wouldn't have him die or hang himself , for millions of golden pieces ! Close the door ! Tom did so hardly knowing yet whether he was awake or in a dream . 
In the midst of his guilty distractions , Jonas had not forgotten it . 
It was a part of his guilty state of mind to remember it for on his persistence in the scheme depended one of his precautions for his own safety . 
A hint , a word , from the old man , uttered at such a moment in attentive ears , might fire the train of suspicion , and destroy him . 
His watchfulness of every avenue by which the discovery of his guilt might be approached , sharpened with his sense of the danger by which he was encompassed . 
It was in his punishment it was in his guilty condition . 
The very deed which his fears rendered insupportable , his fears would have impelled him to commit again . 
But keeping the old man close , according to his design , would serve his turn . 
His purpose was to escape , when the first alarm and wonder had subsided and when he could make the attempt without awakening instant suspicion . 
In the meanwhile these women would keep him quiet and if the talking humour came upon him , would not be easily startled . 
Nor had he spoken idly when he said the old man should be gagged . 
He had resolved to ensure his silence and he looked to the end , not the means . 
He had been rough and rude and cruel to the old man all his life and violence was natural to his mind in connection with him . 
'He shall be gagged if he speaks , and pinioned if he writes , said Jonas , looking at him for they sat alone together . 
'He is mad enough for that I'll go through with it ! Hush ! Still listening ! To every sound . 
He had listened ever since , and it had not come yet . 
When they would find the body in the wood . 
And the more his thoughts were set upon the discovery , the stronger was the fascination which attracted them to the thing itself lying alone in the wood . 
He was for ever showing and presenting it , as it were , to every creature whom he saw . 
Still he was not sorry . 
It was no contrition or remorse for what he had done that moved him it was nothing but alarm for his own security . 
He felt a triumph yet , in the reflection . 
He had kept a jealous watch on Chuffey ever since the deed seldom leaving him but on compulsion , and then for as short intervals as possible . 
They were alone together now . 
It was twilight , and the appointed time drew near at hand . 
Jonas walked up and down the room . 
The old man sat in his accustomed corner . 
For anything he knew , she might have knocked at the door of his room , while he was away , and discovered his plot . 
Aye ! To be sure ! Always stealing away into the company of that woman . 
She was no friend of his . 
Who could tell what devil's mischief they might hatch together ! Let her be fetched home directly . 
Well ! Where was she ? Had she come ? No. She had left there , full three hours . 
'Left there ! Alone ? The messenger had not asked taking that for granted . 
'Curse you for a fool . 
'Give her up ! cried the old man . 
'Come ! Give her up to me ! Tell me what you have done with her . 
Quick ! I have made no promises on that score . 
Tell me what you have done with her . 
He laid his hands upon his collar as he spoke , and grasped it tightly too . 
'You shall not leave me ! cried the old man . 
'I am strong enough to cry out to the neighbours , and I will , unless you give her up . 
It was as much as he could do to ask him what he meant . 
'I will know what you have done with her ! retorted Chuffey . 
'If you hurt a hair of her head , you shall answer it . 
Poor thing ! Poor thing ! Where is she ? 'Why , you old madman ! said Jonas , in a low voice , and with trembling lips . 
'What Bedlam fit has come upon you now ? 'It is enough to make me mad , seeing what I have seen in this house ! cried Chuffey . 
Wait till she comes home , and see she can't be long . 
Will that content you ? 'Mind ! exclaimed the old man . 
'Not a hair of her head ! not a hair of her head ill used ! I won't bear it . 
I I have borne it too long Jonas . 
I am silent , but I I I can speak . 
I I I can speak he stammered , as he crept back to his chair , and turned a threatening , though a feeble , look upon him . 
'You can speak , can you ! thought Jonas . 
'So , so , we'll stop your speaking . 
It's well I knew of this in good time . 
Prevention is better than cure . 
He stopped at the window to think . 
An opposite shop was lighted up and the tradesman and a customer were reading some printed bill together across the counter . 
The sight brought him back , instantly , to the occupation he had forgotten . 
'Look here ! Do you know of this ? Is it found ? Do you suspect ME ? A hand upon the door . 
How does Mr Chuffey find his self to night , sir ? Mrs Gamp kept particularly close to the door in saying this , and curtseyed more than usual . 
She did not appear to be quite so much at her ease as she generally was . 
'Get him to his room , said Jonas , walking up to her , and speaking in her ear . 
'He has been raving to night stark mad . 
Don't talk while he's here , but come down again . 
'Poor sweet dear ! cried Mrs Gamp , with uncommon tenderness . 
'He's all of a tremble . 
'Well he may be , said Jonas , 'after the mad fit he has had . 
She was by this time assisting him to rise . 
'There's my blessed old chick ! cried Mrs Gamp , in a tone that was at once soothing and encouraging . 
That's a good creetur ! Come with Sairey ! 'Is she come home ? inquired the old man . 
'She'll be here directly minit , returned Mrs Gamp . 
'Come with Sairey , Mr Chuffey . 
It had its effect , for he permitted her to lead him away and they quitted the room together . 
Jonas looked out of the window again . 
They were still reading the printed paper in the shop opposite , and a third man had joined in the perusal . 
Horror ! How like the blow he had struck in the wood ! It beat him from the window as if it had lighted on himself . 
As he staggered into a chair , he thought of the change in Mrs Gamp exhibited in her new born tenderness to her charge . 
Where is the other woman ? 'The other person's with him now , she answered . 
'That's right , said Jonas . 
'He is not fit to be left to himself . 
Why , he fastened on me to night here , upon my coat like a savage dog . 
Old as he is , and feeble as he is usually , I had some trouble to shake him off . 
You Hush ! It's nothing . 
You told me the other woman's name . 
'I mentioned Betsey Prig , said Mrs Gamp . 
'She is to be trusted , is she ? 'That she ain't ! said Mrs Gamp 'nor have I brought her , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
I've brought another , which engages to give every satigefaction . 
'What is her name ? asked Jonas . 
Mrs Gamp looked at him in an odd way without returning any answer , but appeared to understand the question too . 
'What is her name ? repeated Jonas . 
'Her name , said Mrs Gamp , 'is Harris . 
It was extraordinary how much effort it cost Mrs Gamp to pronounce the name she was commonly so ready with . 
'Well ! he said , hastily , for he felt how incapable he was of confining his wandering attention to the subject . 
But she spoke so tremulously that she felt called upon to add , 'which fiddle strings is weakness to expredge my nerves this night ! Jonas stopped to listen . 
Then said , hurriedly 'We shall not quarrel about terms . 
Let them be the same as they were before . 
Keep him close , and keep him quiet . 
He has got it in his head to night that my wife's dead , and has been attacking me as if I had killed her . 
It's it's common with mad people to take the worst fancies of those they like best . 
Isn't it ? Mrs Gamp assented with a short groan . 
'Keep him close , then , or in one of his fits he'll be doing me a mischief . 
And don't trust him at any time for when he seems most rational , he's wildest in his talk . 
But that you know already . 
Let me see the other . 
'The t'other person , sir ? said Mrs Gamp . 
'Aye ! Go you to him and send the other . 
Mrs Gamp took two or three backward steps towards the door , and stopped there . 
'It is your wishes , Mr Chuzzlewit , she said , in a sort of quavering croak , 'to see the t'other person . 
Is it ? But the ghastly change in Jonas told her that the other person was already seen . 
Before she could look round towards the door , she was put aside by old Martin's hand and Chuffey and John Westlock entered with him . 
'Let no one leave the house , said Martin . 
'This man is my brother's son . 
Ill met , ill trained , ill begotten . 
'The right of your wrong doing . 
Come in there ! An irrepressible exclamation burst from the lips of Jonas , as Lewsome entered at the door . 
It was in vain to try to do so scornfully , or with his usual insolence . 
He required the chair for his support . 
But he made a struggle for it . 
'I know that fellow , he said , fetching his breath at every word , and pointing his trembling finger towards Lewsome . 
'He's the greatest liar alive . 
You can't do it ! Now go on , sir , this was to old Martin . 
Go on , sir ! Let him try me once , and see whether I'm a man of my word or not . 
Old Martin turned to Lewsome 'This is the man , he said , extending his hand towards Jonas . 
'Is it ? 'You need do no more than look at him to be sure of that , or of the truth of what I have said , was the reply . 
'Oh , brother ! cried old Martin , clasping his hands and lifting up his eyes . 
Then with recovered energy he proceeded 'But the accursed harvest of our mistaken lives shall be trodden down . 
It is not too late for that . 
You are confronted with this man , you monster there not to be spared , but to be dealt with justly . 
Hear what he says ! Reply , be silent , contradict , repeat , defy , do what you please . 
My course will be the same . 
'He urged me to it . 
He made me promise it upon his dying bed . 
I never would have spoken , but for your finding out so much . 
I have thought about it ever since I couldn't help that and sometimes I have had it all before me in a dream but in the day time , not in sleep . 
Is there such a kind of dream ? said Chuffey , looking anxiously in old Martin's face . 
As Martin made him an encouraging reply , he listened attentively to his voice , and smiled . 
'Ah , aye ! he cried . 
'He often spoke to me like that . 
'You speak so like my dear old master , cried the old man with a childish delight , 'that I almost think I hear him . 
I can hear you quite as well as I used to hear him . 
It makes me young again . 
He never spoke unkindly to me , and I always understood him . 
I could always see him too , though my sight was dim . 
Well , well ! He's dead , he's dead . 
He was very good to me , my dear old master ! He shook his head mournfully over the brother's hand . 
At this moment Mark , who had been glancing out of the window , left the room . 
'I couldn't turn against his only son , you know , said Chuffey . 
'He has nearly driven me to do it sometimes he very nearly did tonight . 
Ah ! cried the old man , with a sudden recollection of the cause . 
'Where is she ? She's not come home ! 'Do you mean his wife ? said Mr Chuzzlewit . 
She is in my care , and will be spared the present knowledge of what is passing here . 
She has known misery enough , without that addition . 
Jonas heard this with a sinking heart . 
He knew that they were on his heels , and felt that they were resolute to run him to destruction . 
He tried to deny it , but his tongue would not move . 
He conceived some desperate thought of rushing away , and tearing through the streets but his limbs would as little answer to his will as his stark , stiff staring face . 
All this time the voice went slowly on , denouncing him . 
It was as if every drop of blood in the wood had found a voice to jeer him with . 
'Aye , yes ! and so he was ! cried Chuffey , wildly . 
'But not as you suppose not as you suppose . 
Stay ! Give me a moment's time . 
I have it all here all here ! It was foul , foul , cruel , bad but not as you suppose . 
Stay , stay ! He put his hands up to his head , as if it throbbed or pained him . 
After looking about him in a wandering and vacant manner for some moments , his eyes rested upon Jonas , when they kindled up with sudden recollection and intelligence . 
'Yes ! cried old Chuffey , 'yes ! That's how it was . 
It's all upon me now . 
But I did I did ! Old Martin regarded him in amazement so did his companions . 
The trembling figure of the old man shook with the strong emotions that possessed him . 
Jonas shrunk from looking at him , and cowered down into the chair by which he had held . 
It seemed as if this tremendous Truth could make the dumb speak . 
'I know it every word now ! cried Chuffey . 
'Every word ! He put it in that drawer , as I have said . 
He went so often there , and was so secret , that his father took notice of it and when he was out , had it opened . 
Oh , Chuff , he said , oh , dear old Chuff ! a voice came into my room to night , and told me that this crime began with me . 
He loved his only son , and he was always good to me ! Jonas listened with increased attention . 
Hope was breaking in upon him . 
He shall have it now he shall marry where he has a fancy , Chuff , although it don't please me and you and I will go away and live upon a little . 
I always loved him perhaps he'll love me then . 
It's a dreadful thing to have my own child thirsting for my death . 
But I might have known it . 
I have sown , and I must reap . 
He'll make a better man of his own son , and be a better man himself , perhaps , Chuff ! Poor Chuffey paused to dry his eyes again . 
Old Martin's face was hidden in his hands . 
Jonas listened still more keenly , and his breast heaved like a swollen water , but with hope . 
We burnt it but his son believed that he was taking it he knows he did . 
Once Mr Chuzzlewit , to try him , took heart to say it had a strange taste and he got up directly , and went out . 
Jonas gave a short , dry cough and , changing his position for an easier one , folded his arms without looking at them , though they could now see his face . 
'Mr Chuzzlewit wrote to her father I mean the father of the poor thing who's his wife , said Chuffey 'and got him to come up , intending to hasten on the marriage . 
But his mind , like mine , went a little wrong through grief , and then his heart broke . 
He sank and altered from the time when he came to me in the night and never held up his head again . 
It was only a few days , but he had never changed so much in twice the years . 
Spare him , Chuff ! he said , before he died . 
They were the only words he could speak . 
Spare him , Chuff ! I promised him I would . 
I've tried to do it . 
On his recollection of the last scene in his old friend's life , poor Chuffey's voice , which had grown weaker and weaker , quite deserted him . 
Jonas could look at his company now , and vauntingly too . 
'Well ! he said , after a pause . 
'Are you satisfied ? or have you any more of your plots to broach ? Why that fellow , Lewsome , can invent 'em for you by the score . 
Is this all ? Have you nothing else ? Old Martin looked at him steadily . 
And for my wife , old man , send her home straight , or it will be the worse for her . 
And here that last black crime was busy with him too working within him to his perdition . 
'My good friend ! said old Martin , laying his hand on Chuffey's sleeve . 
'This is no place for you to remain in . 
'Just his old way ! cried Chuffey , looking up into his face . 
'I almost believe it's Mr Chuzzlewit alive again . 
Yes ! Take me with you ! Stay , though , stay . 
'For what ? asked old Martin . 
'I can't leave her , poor thing ! said Chuffey . 
'She has been very good to me . 
I can't leave her , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
I haven't long to remain it's no great matter . 
As he meekly shook his poor , grey head , and thanked old Martin in these words , Mrs Gamp , now entirely in the room , was affected to tears . 
'I'll have no more tampering with my people , man or woman . 
Do you see the door ? 'Do YOU see the door ? returned the voice of Mark , coming from that direction . 
'Look at it ! He looked , and his gaze was nailed there . 
, and making their airy play ground rock . 
'That is the man , said Nadgett . 
'By the window ! Three others came in , laid hands upon him , and secured him . 
It was so quickly done , that he had not lost sight of the informer's face for an instant when his wrists were manacled together . 
'Murder , said Nadgett , looking round on the astonished group . 
The sounding street repeated Murder barbarous and dreadful Murder . 
Murder , Murder , Murder . 
Old Martin was the first to speak . 
'What terrible history is this ? he demanded . 
'Ask HIM , said Nadgett . 
'You're his friend , sir . 
He can tell you , if he will . 
He knows more of it than I do , though I know much . 
'How do you know much ? 'I have not been watching him so long for nothing , returned Nadgett . 
'I never watched a man so close as I have watched him . 
Another of the phantom forms of this terrific Truth ! Another of the many shapes in which it started up about him , out of vacancy . 
The race was at an end the rope was woven for his neck . 
He sank down in a heap against the wall , and never hoped again from that moment . 
'I am not his friend , although I have the honour to be his relative , said Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'You may speak to me . 
Where have you watched , and what have you seen ? 'I have watched in many places , returned Nadgett , 'night and day . 
I have watched him lately , almost without rest or relief his anxious face and bloodshot eyes confirmed it . 
'I little thought to what my watching was to lead . 
he would have torn himself . 
'Steady , kinsman ! said the chief officer of the party . 
'Whom do you call kinsman ? asked old Martin sternly . 
'You , said the man , 'among others . 
Martin turned his scrutinizing gaze upon him . 
'Aye , he said , with a sulky nod . 
'You may deny your nephews till you die but Chevy Slyme is Chevy Slyme still , all the world over . 
Perhaps even you may feel it some disgrace to your own blood to be employed in this way . 
I'm to be bought off . 
'At every turn ! cried Martin . 
'Self , self , self . 
Every one among them for himself ! 'You had better save one or two among them the trouble then and be for them as well as YOURself , replied his nephew . 
I didn't think I should have to make a capture in the family , though . 
'If your debauchery , and that of your chosen friends , has really brought you to this level , returned the old man , 'keep it . 
You are living honestly , I hope , and that's something . 
'Don't be hard upon my chosen friends , returned Slyme , 'for they were sometimes your chosen friends too . 
Don't say you never employed my friend Tigg , for I know better . 
'I hired the fellow , retorted Mr Chuzzlewit , 'and I paid him . 
'It's well you paid him , said his nephew , 'for it would be too late to do so now . 
He has given his receipt in full or had it forced from him rather . 
The old man looked at him as if he were curious to know what he meant , but scorned to prolong the conversation . 
'HIS murderer ! cried Mr Chuzzlewit , looking from one to another . 
'His or Mr Montague's , said Nadgett . 
'They are the same , I am told . 
I accuse him yonder of the murder of Mr Montague , who was found last night , killed , in a wood . 
You will ask me why I accuse him as you have already asked me how I know so much . 
It can't remain a secret long . 
The ruling passion of the man expressed itself even then , in the tone of regret in which he deplored the approaching publicity of what he knew . 
'I told you I had watched him , he proceeded . 
'I was instructed to do so by Mr Montague , in whose employment I have been for some time . 
We had our suspicions of him and you know what they pointed at , for you have been discussing it since we have been waiting here , outside the room . 
Bit by bit , I ferreted out more circumstances against him , and not a few . 
It required a little patience , but it's my calling . 
I found the nurse here she is to confirm me I found the doctor , I found the undertaker , I found the undertaker's man . 
I was by when this was done . 
He is only worse than he was then . 
As he crouched upon the floor , they drew away from him as if a pestilence were in his breath . 
They fell off , one by one , from that part of the room , leaving him alone upon the ground . 
'From that garret window opposite , said Nadgett , pointing across the narrow street , 'I have watched this house and him for days and nights . 
From that garret window opposite I saw him return home , alone , from a journey on which he had set out with Mr Montague . 
That was my token that Mr Montague's end was gained and I might rest easy on my watch , though I was not to leave it until he dismissed me . 
I knew his walk , and that it was himself , disguised . 
I lost him on the western road , still travelling westward . 
Jonas looked up at him for an instant , and muttered an oath . 
'I could not comprehend what this meant , said Nadgett 'but , having seen so much , I resolved to see it out , and through . 
For I knew he would come back , as he had gone out , when this part of the town was empty . 
Early in the morning , the same countryman came creeping , creeping , creeping home . 
'Look sharp ! interposed Slyme , who had now finished his nuts . 
'This is quite irregular , Mr Nadgett . 
'I kept at the window all day , said Nadgett , without heeding him . 
'I think I never closed my eyes . 
At night , I saw him come out with a bundle . 
He went down the steps at London Bridge , and sunk it in the river . 
I now began to entertain some serious fears , and made a communication to the Police , which caused that bundle to be 'To be fished up , interrupted Slyme . 
'Be alive , Mr Nadgett . 
'It contained the dress I had seen him wear , said Nadgett 'stained with clay , and spotted with blood . 
Information of the murder was received in town last night . 
The warrant has been out , and these officers have been with me , some hours . 
You asked me for the facts , so far I have related them , and need not detain these gentlemen any longer . 
Are you ready , Mr Slyme ? 'And something more , replied that worthy , rising . 
'If you walk round to the office , we shall be there as soon as you . 
Tom ! Get a coach ! The officer to whom he spoke departed for that purpose . 
John Westlock and Mark Tapley accompanied them . 
'Ha ! muttered Slyme , looking after them . 
'And such a livelihood too ! When there are hundreds of men , not fit to hold a candle to me , rolling in carriages and living on their fortunes . 
Upon my soul it's a nice world ! His eyes encountered Jonas , who looked earnestly towards him , and moved his lips as if he were whispering . 
Jonas glanced at the attendant whose back was towards him , and made a clumsy motion with his bound hands towards the door . 
'Humph ! said Slyme , thoughtfully . 
'I couldn't hope to disgrace him into anything when you have shot so far ahead of me though . 
Jonas repeated the same look and gesture . 
'Hallo ! returned his man . 
'Go down to the door , ready for the coach . 
Call out when it comes . 
I'd rather have you there . 
Now then , he added , turning hastily to Jonas , when the man was gone . 
'What's the matter ? Jonas essayed to rise . 
'Stop a bit , said Slyme . 
'It's not so easy when your wrists are tight together . 
Now then ! Up ! What is it ? 'Put your hand in my pocket . 
Here ! The breast pocket , on the left ! said Jonas . 
He did so and drew out a purse . 
'There's a hundred pound in it , said Jonas , whose words were almost unintelligible as his face , in its pallor and agony , was scarcely human . 
Slyme looked at him gave it into his hands and shook his head . 
I couldn't if I dared . 
Those fellows below 'Escape's impossible , said Jonas . 
One hundred pound for only five minutes in the next room ! 'What to do ? he asked . 
The face of his prisoner as he advanced to whisper in his ear , made him recoil involuntarily . 
But he stopped and listened to him . 
The words were few , but his own face changed as he heard them . 
'I have it about me , said Jonas , putting his hands to his throat , as though whatever he referred to were hidden in his neckerchief . 
'How should you know of it ? How could you know ? A hundred pound for only five minutes in the next room ! The time's passing . 
Speak ! 'It would be more more creditable to the family , observed Slyme , with trembling lips . 
'I wish you hadn't told me half so much . 
Less would have served your purpose . 
You might have kept it to yourself . 
'A hundred pound for only five minutes in the next room ! Speak ! cried Jonas , desperately . 
Jonas , with a wild unsteady step , retreated to the door in the glass partition . 
'Stop ! cried Slyme , catching at his skirts . 
'I don't know about this . 
Yet it must end so at last . 
Are you guilty ? 'Yes ! said Jonas . 
'Are the proofs as they were told just now ? 'Yes ! said Jonas . 
'Will you will you engage to say a a Prayer , now , or something of that sort ? faltered Slyme . 
Jonas broke from him without replying , and closed the door between them . 
Slyme listened at the keyhole . 
After that , he crept away on tiptoe , as far off as he could and looked awfully towards the place . 
He was roused by the arrival of the coach , and their letting down the steps . 
'He's getting a few things together , he said , leaning out of window , and speaking to the two men below , who stood in the full light of a street lamp . 
'Keep your eye upon the back , one of you , for form's sake . 
One of the men withdrew into the court . 
of being always round the corner . 
A useful habit in his present calling . 
'Where is he ? asked the man . 
Slyme looked into the room for an instant and gave his head a jerk as much as to say , 'Close at hand . 
'He's booked , observed the man . 
They looked at each other , and up and down the street . 
The man on the coach steps took his hat off , and put it on again , and whistled a little . 
'I say ! He's taking his time ! he remonstrated . 
'I allowed him five minutes , said Slyme . 
'Time's more than up , though . 
He withdrew from the window accordingly , and walked on tiptoe to the door in the partition . 
There was not a sound within . 
He set the candles near it , that they might shine through the glass . 
It was not easy , he found , to make up his mind to the opening of the door . 
But he flung it wide open suddenly , and with a noise then retreated . 
After peeping in and listening again , he entered . 
He started back as his eyes met those of Jonas , standing in an angle of the wall , and staring at him . 
His neckerchief was off his face was ashy pale . 
'You're too soon , said Jonas , with an abject whimper . 
I have not been able to do it . 
He whined , and cried , and cursed , and entreated them , and struggled , and submitted , in the same breath , and had no power to stand . 
They got him away and into the coach , where they put him on a seat but he soon fell moaning down among the straw at the bottom , and lay there . 
The two men were with him . 
Slyme being on the box with the driver and they let him lie . 
Happening to pass a fruiterer's on their way the door of which was open , though the shop was by this time shut one of them remarked how faint the peaches smelled . 
The other assented at the moment , but presently stooped down in quick alarm , and looked at the prisoner . 
'Stop the coach ! He has poisoned himself ! The smell comes from this bottle in his hand ! The hand had shut upon it tight . 
With that rigidity of grasp with which no living man , in the full strength and energy of life , can clutch a prize he has won . 
They dragged him out into the dark street but jury , judge , and hangman , could have done no more , and could do nothing now . 
Dead , dead , dead . 
In every single circumstance , whether it were cruel , cowardly , or false , he saw the flowering of the same pregnant seed . 
Self grasping , eager , narrow ranging , overreaching self with its long train of suspicions , lusts , deceits , and all their growing consequences was the root of the vile tree . 
, but all the forced and unnaturally nurtured energy consequent upon their long suppression . 
He had sent for John Westlock immediately on his arrival and John , under the conduct of Tom Pinch , had waited on him . 
But his grandson he had refused to see until to morrow , when Mr Tapley was instructed to summon him to the Temple at ten o'clock in the forenoon . 
, he gave no explanation whatever . 
He merely requested him to return in the morning and with this for their utmost satisfaction , they left him , when the night was far advanced , alone . 
'You are punctual , said Mr Chuzzlewit , opening the door to him in reply to his light knock , which had roused him instantly . 
'My wishes , sir , replied Mr Tapley , whose mind would appear from the context to have been running on the matrimonial service , 'is to love , honour , and obey . 
The clock's a striking now , sir . 
'I did , sir , returned Mark 'and you never see a gentleman more surprised in all your born days than he was . 
'What more did you tell him ? Mr Chuzzlewit inquired . 
'Why , sir , said Mr Tapley , smiling , 'I should have liked to tell him a deal more , but not being able , sir , I didn't tell it him . 
'You told him all you knew ? 'But it was precious little , sir , retorted Mr Tapley . 
'There was very little respectin' you that I was able to tell him , sir . 
I only mentioned my opinion that Mr Pecksniff would find himself deceived , sir , and that you would find yourself deceived , and that he would find himself deceived , sir . 
'In what ? asked Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'Meaning him , sir ? 'Meaning both him and me . 
'Well , sir , said Mr Tapley . 
'In your old opinions of each other . 
As to him , sir , and his opinions , I know he's a altered man . 
I know'd it long afore he spoke to you t'other day , and I must say it . 
Nobody don't know half as much of him as I do . 
There was always a deal of good in him , but a little of it got crusted over , somehow . 
I can't say who rolled the paste of that 'ere crust myself , but 'Go on , said Martin . 
'Why do you stop ? 'But it well ! I beg your pardon , but I think it may have been you , sir . 
Unintentional I think it may have been you . 
I don't believe that neither of you gave the other quite a fair chance . 
Don't wisit on him , sir , that's all . 
It was clear that Mark expected to be ordered out immediately , and was quite prepared to go . 
It's hardly fair of you , sir , to make a ignorant man conwict himself in this way , but I DO think so . 
I am as respectful disposed to you , sir , as a man can be but I DO think so . 
The light of a faint smile seemed to break through the dull steadiness of Martin's face , as he looked attentively at him , without replying . 
'Yet you are an ignorant man , you say , he observed after a long pause . 
'Werry much so , Mr Tapley replied . 
'And I a learned , well instructed man , you think ? 'Likewise wery much so , Mr Tapley answered . 
'For what does he suppose ? 'He don't know what to suppose , sir , no more than myself . 
His frankness was so genuine that it plainly WAS all . 
No more than you do , sir . 
'Will you help me to dress , and get me some breakfast from the hotel ? asked Martin . 
'With pleasure , sir , said Mark . 
'You will not find it necessary to express surprise at their appearance , Martin suggested . 
'Oh dear no , sir ! said Mr Tapley , 'not at all . 
Although he pledged himself to this with perfect confidence , he was in a state of unbounded astonishment even now . 
, he found it difficult to resist the temptation of casting sidelong glances at him very often . 
Nay , he found it impossible and accordingly yielded to this impulse so often , that Martin caught him in the fact some fifty times . 
When he had finished , Mark sat down to his breakfast at the same table and Mr Chuzzlewit , quite silent still , walked up and down the room . 
Mark's uncertainty in respect of what was going to be done or said , and by whom to whom , would have excited him in itself . 
But , excepting that he occasionally coughed in a hollow and unnatural manner to relieve himself , he behaved with great decorum through the longest ten minutes he had ever known . 
A knock at the door . 
Mr Tapley , in admitting him , raised his eyebrows to the highest possible pitch , implying thereby that he considered himself in an unsatisfactory position . 
Mr Chuzzlewit received him very courteously . 
Mark waited at the door for Tom Pinch and his sister , who were coming up the stairs . 
The old man went to meet them took their hands in his and kissed her on the cheek . 
As this looked promising , Mr Tapley smiled benignantly . 
Mr Chuzzlewit had resumed his chair before young Martin , who was close behind them , entered . 
The old man , scarcely looking at him , pointed to a distant seat . 
This was less encouraging and Mr Tapley's spirits fell again . 
He was quickly summoned to the door by another knock . 
The old man received Mary no less tenderly than he had received Tom Pinch's sister . 
A look of friendly recognition passed between himself and Mrs Lupin , which implied the existence of a perfect understanding between them . 
It engendered no astonishment in Mr Tapley for , as he afterwards observed , he had retired from the business , and sold off the stock . 
Not the least curious feature in this assemblage was , that everybody present was so much surprised and embarrassed by the sight of everybody else , that nobody ventured to speak . 
Mr Chuzzlewit alone broke silence . 
'Set the door open , Mark ! he said 'and come here . 
The last appointed footstep sounded now upon the stairs . 
It was Mr Pecksniff's and Mr Pecksniff was in a hurry too , for he came bounding up with such uncommon expedition that he stumbled twice or thrice . 
'Where is my venerable friend ? he cried upon the upper landing and then with open arms came darting in . 
Old Martin merely looked at him but Mr Pecksniff started back as if he had received the charge from an electric battery . 
'My venerable friend is well ? cried Mr Pecksniff . 
It seemed to reassure the anxious inquirer . 
He clasped his hands and , looking upwards with a pious joy , silently expressed his gratitude . 
He then looked round on the assembled group , and shook his head reproachfully . 
For such a man severely , quite severely . 
'Oh , vermin ! said Mr Pecksniff . 
I should really be angry with you if I could , my friend ! He advanced with outstretched arms to take the old man's hand . 
But he had not seen how the hand clasped and clutched the stick within its grasp . 
With such a well directed nervous blow , that down he went , as heavily and true as if the charge of a Life Guardsman had tumbled him out of a saddle . 
'Drag him away ! Take him out of my reach ! said Martin 'or I can't help it . 
The strong restraint I have put upon my hands has been enough to palsy them . 
I am not master of myself while he is within their range . 
'Hear me , rascal ! said Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'I have summoned you here to witness your own work . 
'Look there ! said the old man , pointing at him , and appealing to the rest . 
'Look there ! And then come hither , my dear Martin look here ! here ! here ! At every repetition of the word he pressed his grandson closer to his breast . 
'The passion I felt , Martin , when I dared not do this , he said , 'was in the blow I struck just now . 
'The fault was mine no less than yours . 
Mark has told me so today , and I have known it long though not so long as I might have done . 
Mary , my love , come here . 
As she trembled and was very pale , he sat her in his own chair , and stood beside it with her hand in his and Martin standing by him . 
'The curse of our house , said the old man , looking kindly down upon her , 'has been the love of self has ever been the love of self . 
How often have I said so , when I never knew that I had wrought it upon others . 
He drew one hand through Martin's arm , and standing so , between them , proceeded thus 'You all know how I bred this orphan up , to tend me . 
It blossomed without cultivation , and it ripened without heat . 
I cannot find it in my heart to say that I am sorry for it now , or yonder fellow might be holding up his head . 
Mr Pecksniff put his hand into his waistcoat , and slightly shook that part of him to which allusion had been made as if to signify that it was still uppermost . 
Thus I once doubted those about me not without reason in the beginning and thus I once doubted you , Martin . 
'Not without reason , Martin answered , 'either . 
'Listen , hypocrite ! Listen , smooth tongued , servile , crawling knave ! said Martin . 
'Listen , you shallow dog . 
Did I tell you that I knew you , even then ? 'I am not angry , sir , said Mr Pecksniff , softly . 
'I can bear a great deal from you . 
I will never contradict you , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'Observe ! said Martin , looking round . 
'I put myself in that man's hands on terms as mean and base , and as degrading to himself , as I could render them in words . 
If I had only called the angry blood into his face , I would have wavered in my purpose . 
If I had only stung him into being a man for a minute I would have abandoned it . 
But not a word , not a word . 
Pandering to the worst of human passions was the office of his nature and faithfully he did his work ! 'I am not angry , observed Mr Pecksniff . 
'I am hurt , Mr Chuzzlewit wounded in my feelings but I am not angry , my good sir . 
For first to last there has been no such thing . 
He cannot say I have not given him opportunity . 
He cannot say I have ever led him on . 
Or if he can , he Lies ! And that's his nature , too . 
'Mr Chuzzlewit , interrupted Pecksniff , shedding tears . 
'I am not angry , sir . 
I cannot be angry with you . 
'I have said so , have I not ? retorted the old man , sternly . 
I did express that desire . 
Mr Pecksniff made a bow a submissive , not to say a grovelling and an abject bow . 
If he had been complimented on his practice of the loftiest virtues , he never could have bowed as he bowed then . 
'The wretched man who has been murdered , Mr Chuzzlewit went on to say 'then passing by the name of 'Tigg , suggested Mark . 
It was from him I learned that you had taken up your abode with yonder fellow . 
It was he , who meeting you here in town , one evening you remember where ? 'At the pawnbroker's shop , said Martin . 
'Yes watched you to your lodging , and enabled me to send you a bank note . 
'I little thought , said Martin , greatly moved , 'that it had come from you I little thought that you were interested in my fate . 
If I had 'If you had , returned the old man , sorrowfully , 'you would have shown less knowledge of me as I seemed to be , and as I really was . 
I hoped to bring you back , Martin , penitent and humbled . 
I hoped to distress you into coming back to me . 
Much as I loved you , I had that to acknowledge which I could not reconcile it to myself to avow , then , unless you made submission to me first . 
Thus it was I lost you . 
You are right not for the first time to day . 
Now hear me out , my dears . 
'The penance I have done in this house , said Mr Chuzzlewit , 'has earned this reflection with it constantly , above all others . 
, that high words sprung up between them , and they separated in wrath . 
How he loved him still , and hoped he would return . 
And peace of mind , deep , tranquil peace of mind , was in Tom's heart . 
For that Ghoul' his fertility in finding names for Mr Pecksniff was astonishing 'would have crawled into her daily walks otherwise , and polluted the fresh air . 
What's this ? Her hand is trembling strangely . 
See if you can hold it . 
Hold it ! If he clasped it half as tightly as he did her waist . 
'Oh , Tom ! Dear Tom ! I saw you , accidentally , coming here . 
Forgive me ! 'Forgive ! cried Tom . 
'I'll never forgive you as long as I live , Martin , if you say another syllable about it . 
Joy to you both ! Joy , my dear fellow , fifty thousand times . 
Joy ! There is not a blessing on earth that Tom did not wish them . 
There is not a blessing on earth that Tom would not have bestowed upon them , if he could . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , said Mr Tapley , stepping forward , 'but yow was mentionin' , just now , a lady of the name of Lupin , sir . 
'I was , returned old Martin 'Yes , sir . 
It's a pretty name , sir ? 'A very good name , said Martin . 
'It seems a'most a pity to change such a name into Tapley . 
Don't it , sir ? said Mark . 
'That depends upon the lady . 
A sign of my own inwention , sir . 
Not only did his figure appear to have shrunk , but his discomfiture seemed to have extended itself even to his dress . 
'And paid for it , he observed . 
That savours , said Mr Pecksniff , taking out his pocket handkerchief , 'of your old familiar frankness . 
You have paid for it . 
I was about to make the remark . 
You have deceived me , sir . 
I am glad of it . 
To see you in the possession of your health and faculties on any terms , is , in itself , a sufficient recompense . 
To have been deceived implies a trusting nature . 
Mine is a trusting nature . 
I am thankful for it . 
'There is hardly any person present , Mr Chuzzlewit , said Pecksniff , 'by whom I have not been deceived . 
I have forgiven those persons on the spot . 
That was my duty and , of course , I have done it . 
And your conscience does not acquit you . 
, on that delicate and exquisite portion of the human anatomy the brain . 
Several blows have been inflicted , sir , without a walking stick , upon that tenderer portion of my frame my heart . 
You have mentioned , sir , my being bankrupt in my purse . 
Yes , sir , I am . 
, remote from the impulses of passion , and apart from the specialities , if I may use that strong remark , of prejudice . 
If you find yourself approaching to the silent tomb , sir , think of me . 
That I forgave you when my injuries were fresh , and when my bosom was newly wrung . 
It may be bitterness to you to hear it now , sir , but you will live to seek a consolation in it . 
May you find a consolation in it when you want it , sir ! Good morning ! With this sublime address , Mr Pecksniff departed . 
'Is there anybody here that knows him ? cried the little man . 
At the same time Mrs Gamp was seen in the doorway out of breath from coming up so many stairs , and panting fearfully but dropping curtseys to the last . 
'Look at him ! cried the excited little barber . 
'Here he is ! That'll soon wear off , and then he'll be all right again . 
He's no more dead than I am . 
He's all alive and hearty . 
Aint you , Bailey ? 'R r reether so , Poll ! replied that gentleman . 
'Look here ! cried the little barber , laughing and crying in the same breath . 
'When I steady him he comes all right . 
There ! He's all right now . 
Nothing's the matter with him now , except that he's a little shook and rather giddy is there , Bailey ? 'R r reether shook , Poll reether so ! said Mr Bailey . 
'What , my lovely Sairey ! There you air ! 'What a boy he is ! cried the tender hearted Poll , actually sobbing over him . 
'I never see sech a boy ! It's all his fun . 
He shall go into the business along with me . 
I am determined he shall . 
We'll make it Sweedlepipe and Bailey . 
I'll make over the birds to him as soon as ever he's well enough . 
He shall have the little bullfinch in the shop , and all . 
She now struggled to the front , therefore , and stated her business . 
Permittin' the sweet faces as I see afore me . 
'Oh ! said Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'Is that your business ? Was this good person paid for the trouble we gave her ? 'I paid her , sir , returned Mark Tapley 'liberal . 
'The young man's words is true , said Mrs Gamp , 'and thank you kindly . 
'Then here we will close our acquaintance , Mrs Gamp , retorted Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'Mr Sweedlepipe , take as much care of your lady lodger as you can , and give her a word or two of good advice now and then . 
Endeavour to impress that upon her at your leisure , if you please . 
The old man looked about him , with a smile , until his eyes rested on Tom Pinch's sister when he smiled the more . 
I must see your lodgings in the meanwhile , Tom . 
She would go with them . 
'Thank you , my love , said Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'But I am afraid I must take Tom a little out of the way , on business . 
Suppose you go on first , my dear ? Pretty little Ruth was equally delighted to do that . 
'But not alone , said Martin , 'not alone . 
Mr Westlock , I dare say , will escort you . 
Why , of course he would what else had Mr Westlock in his mind ? How dull these old men are ! 'You are sure you have no engagement ? he persisted . 
Engagement ! As if he could have any engagement ! So they went off arm in arm . 
And why they came toward the Fountain at all is a mystery for they had no business there . 
It was not in their way . 
It was quite out of their way . 
They had no more to do with the Fountain , bless you , than they had with with Love , or any out of the way thing of that sort . 
It was all very well for Tom and his sister to make appointments by the Fountain , but that was quite another affair . 
, their coming anywhere near that Fountain was quite extraordinary . 
However , there they found themselves . 
And another extraordinary part of the matter was , that they seemed to have come there , by a silent understanding . 
Yet when they got there , they were a little confused by being there , which was the strangest part of all because there is nothing naturally confusing in a Fountain . 
What a good old place it was ! John said . 
With quite an earnest affection for it 'A pleasant place indeed , said little Ruth . 
'So shady ! Oh wicked little Ruth ! They came to a stop when John began to praise it . 
, she was ten thousand times more charming and irresistible than she had been before . 
'Martin will be married very soon now , I suppose ? said John . 
Never did a bewitching little woman suppose anything in such a faint voice as Ruth supposed that . 
But seeing that another of those alarming pauses was approaching , she remarked that he would have a beautiful wife . 
Didn't Mr Westlock think so ? 'Ye yes , said John , 'oh , yes . 
She feared he was rather hard to please , he spoke so coldly . 
'Rather say already pleased , said John . 
'I have scarcely seen her . 
I had no care to see her . 
I had no eyes for HER , this morning . 
Oh , good gracious ! It was well they had reached their destination . 
She never could have gone any further . 
It would have been impossible to walk in such a tremble . 
Tom had not come in . 
They entered the triangular parlour together , and alone . 
Fiery Face , Fiery Face , how many years' purchase NOW ! She sat down on the little sofa , and untied her bonnet strings . 
He sat down by her side , and very near her very , very near her . 
Oh rapid , swelling , bursting little heart , you knew that it would come to this , and hoped it would . 
Why beat so wildly , heart ! 'Dear Ruth ! Sweet Ruth ! If I had loved you less , I could have told you that I loved you , long ago . 
I have loved you from the first . 
There never was a creature in the world more truly loved than you , dear Ruth , by me ! She clasped her little hands before her face . 
The gushing tears of joy , and pride , and hope , and innocent affection , would not be restrained . 
Fresh from her full young heart they came to answer him . 
Darling Ruth ! My own good , gentle , winning Ruth ! I hope I know the value of your heart , I hope I know the worth of your angel nature . 
Let me try and show you that I do and you will make me happier , Ruth 'Not happier , she sobbed , 'than you make me . 
No one can be happier , John , than you make me ! Fiery Face , provide yourself ! The usual wages or the usual warning . 
It's all over , Fiery Face . 
We needn't trouble you any further . 
The little hands could meet each other now , without a rampant horse to urge them . 
There was no occasion for lions , bears , or mad bulls . 
It could all be done , and infinitely better , without their assistance . 
No burly drayman or big butts of beer , were wanted for apologies . 
No apology at all was wanted . 
If all the horses in Araby had run away at once , they couldn't have improved upon it . 
They soon began to talk of Tom again . 
'I hope he will be glad to hear of it ! said John , with sparkling eyes . 
Ruth drew the little hands a little tighter when he said it , and looked up seriously into his face . 
'I am never to leave him , AM I , dear ? I could never leave Tom . 
I am sure you know that . 
'Do you think I would ask you ? he returned , with a well ! Never mind with what . 
'I am sure you never would , she answered , the bright tears standing in her eyes . 
'And I will swear it , Ruth , my darling , if you please . 
Leave Tom ! That would be a strange beginning . 
have not all honour and all love in our home , my little wife , may that home never be ! And that's a strong oath , Ruth . 
Shall it be recorded how she thanked him ? Yes , it shall . 
'Tom will be so happy , and so proud , and glad , she said , clasping her little hands . 
'But so surprised ! I am sure he had never thought of such a thing . 
'Ah ! dear Tom ! said Ruth . 
'I suppose I ought to tell you everything now . 
I should have no secrets from you . 
But what he conveyed was , No no no , sweet Ruth or something to that effect . 
But they would try , he said , only the more , on this account to make him happy , and to beguile him with his favourite pursuits . 
Though she longed to tell him what had happened , poor little Ruth was greatly agitated by his arrival the more so because she knew that Mr Chuzzlewit was with him . 
'Do , my love , said John , 'whatever is natural to you on the impulse of the moment , and I am sure it will be right . 
He had hardly time to say thus much , and Ruth had hardly time to just to get a little farther off upon the sofa , when Tom and Mr Chuzzlewit came in . 
Mr Chuzzlewit came first , and Tom was a few seconds behind him . 
Now Ruth had hastily resolved that she would beckon Tom upstairs after a short time , and would tell him in his little bedroom . 
'John ! 'Dear Tom , said his friend , 'give me your hand . 
We are brothers , Tom . 
Tom wrung it with all his force , embraced his sister fervently , and put her in John Westlock's arms . 
'Don't speak to me , John . 
Heaven is very good to us . 
I Tom could find no further utterance , but left the room and Ruth went after him . 
'I am glad you chose to day , said Mr Chuzzlewit to John with the same knowing smile as when they had left him . 
I hoped Tom and I lingered behind a discreet time . 
It's so long since I had any practical knowledge of these subjects , that I have been anxious , I assure you . 
'Your knowledge is still pretty accurate , sir , returned John , laughing , 'if it led you to foresee what would happen to day . 
'Why , I am not sure , Mr Westlock , said the old man , 'that any great spirit of prophecy was needed , after seeing you and Ruth together . 
Come hither , pretty one . 
See what Tom and I purchased this morning , while you were dealing in exchange with that young merchant there . 
'See here ! he said , taking a case from his pocket , 'what a beautiful necklace . 
Ah ! How it glitters ! Earrings , too , and bracelets , and a zone for your waist . 
This set is yours , and Mary has another like it . 
Tom couldn't understand why I wanted two . 
What a short sighted Tom ! Earrings and bracelets , and a zone for your waist ! Ah ! Beautiful ! Let us see how brave they look . 
Ask Mr Westlock to clasp them on . 
'The set of jewels and the wearer are so well matched , said the old man , 'that I don't know which becomes the other most . 
Mr Westlock could tell me , I have no doubt , but I'll not ask him , for he is bribed . 
There are not many fathers who marry two such daughters on the same day but we will overlook the improbability for the gratification of an old man's fancy . 
got to be a bright scarlet in the face , and broke his waistcoat strings audibly . 
Young Martin sat at the head of the table , and Tom Pinch at the foot and if there were a genial face at that board , it was Tom's . 
They all took their tone from Tom . 
Everybody drank to him , everybody looked to him , everybody thought of him , everybody loved him . 
If he so much as laid down his knife and fork , somebody put out a hand to shake with him . 
His heart was full , he said , of happiness . 
Tom spoke the honest truth . 
'Where is he ? said Fips , when he came in . 
And Tom actually winked to himself when he got upstairs he thought it such a deep thing to have done . 
That's capital ! But he had not sat reading very long , when he heard a tap at his door . 
'May I come in ? said John . 
'Oh , surely ! Tom replied . 
'Don't leave us , Tom . 
We want to make you merry not melancholy . 
'My dear friend , said Tom , with a cheerful smile . 
'But I never can tell you what unutterable joy this day has given me . 
It would be unjust to you to speak of your having chosen a portionless girl , for I feel that you know her worth I am sure you know her worth . 
Nor will it diminish in your estimation , John , which money might . 
'Which money would , Tom , he returned . 
It's mine , it's mine . 
'No , no , John , said Tom . 
'It's mine , it's mine . 
Their friendly contention was brought to a close by little Ruth herself , who came peeping in at the door . 
But then he has a right , you know . 
Because I AM fond of him , Tom . 
As to Tom , he was perfectly delighted . 
He could have sat and looked at them , just as they were , for hours . 
'I have told Tom , love , as we agreed , that we are not going to permit him to run away , and that we cannot possibly allow it . 
Whether he is considerate , or whether he is only selfish , I don't know . 
But he needn't be considerate , for he is not the least restraint upon us . 
Is he , dearest Ruth ? Well ! He really did not seem to be any particular restraint upon them . 
FOR IT IS THE LAST IN THE BOOK Todger's was in high feather , and mighty preparations for a late breakfast were astir in its commercial bowers . 
The blissful morning had arrived when Miss Pecksniff was to be united in holy matrimony , to Augustus . 
Miss Pecksniff was in a frame of mind equally becoming to herself and the occasion . 
She was full of clemency and conciliation . 
She had laid in several caldrons of live coals , and was prepared to heap them on the heads of her enemies . 
She bore no spite nor malice in her heart . 
Quarrels , Miss Pecksniff said , were dreadful things in families and though she never could forgive her dear papa , she was willing to receive her other relations . 
They had been separated , she observed , too long . 
It was enough to call down a judgment upon the family . 
She believed the death of Jonas WAS a judgment on them for their internal dissensions . 
And Miss Pecksniff was confirmed in this belief , by the lightness with which the visitation had fallen on herself . 
That she had been much hurt by the unnatural conduct of herself and daughters , and hoped they might not have suffered in their consciences . 
, to attend as bridesmaids . 
After which Miss Pecksniff remarked that there was a sweetness in doing our duty , which neutralized the bitter in our cups . 
The carriage remained in waiting so did Mr Tapley . 
Mr Chuzzlewit betook himself to Todger's . 
He was shown , by the degenerate successor of Mr Bailey , into the dining parlour where for his visit was expected Mrs Todgers immediately appeared . 
'You are dressed , I see , for the wedding , he said . 
Mrs Todgers , who was greatly flurried by the preparations , replied in the affirmative . 
That cannot be denied , sir . 
'No , said Mr Chuzzlewit , 'assuredly not . 
Her sister takes no part in the proceedings ? 'Oh , dear no , sir . 
Poor thing ! said Mrs Todgers , shaking her head , and dropping her voice . 
'Since she has known the worst , she has never left my room the next room . 
'Is she prepared to see me ? he inquired . 
'Then let us lose no time . 
The room looked very dark and sorrowful and so did she but she had one friend beside her , faithful to the last . 
When Mr Chuzzlewit sat down at her side , she took his hand and put it to her lips . 
She was in great grief . 
He too was agitated for he had not seen her since their parting in the churchyard . 
'I judged you hastily , he said , in a low voice . 
'I fear I judged you cruelly . 
Let me know that I have your forgiveness . 
She kissed his hand again and retaining it in hers , thanked him in a broken voice , for all his kindness to her since . 
'You had for me even for me , she answered . 
I said the words you have repeated , when my distress was very sharp and hard to bear I say them now for others but I cannot urge them for myself . 
You spoke to me after you had seen and watched me day by day . 
There was great consideration in that . 
You might have spoken , perhaps , more kindly you might have tried to invite my confidence by greater gentleness but the end would have been the same . 
He shook his head in doubt , and not without some inward self reproach . 
It has grown out of my trouble . 
I have felt it in my trouble . 
It has been my friend , for without it no one could have changed me nothing could have changed me . 
Do not mistrust me because of these tears I cannot help them . 
I am grateful for it , in my soul . 
Indeed I am ! 'Indeed she is ! said Mrs Todgers . 
'I believe it , sir . 
'And so do I ! said Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'Now , attend to me , my dear . 
, will be seized upon by law for it is not exempt , as I learn , from the claims of those who have suffered by the fraud in which he was engaged . 
Your father's property was all , or nearly all , embarked in the same transaction . 
If there be any left , it will be seized on , in like manner . 
There is no home THERE . 
'I couldn't return to him , she said , with an instinctive reference to his having forced her marriage on . 
'I could not return to him . 
'I know it , Mr Chuzzlewit resumed 'and I am here because I know it . 
You have suffered much but you are young , and have a brighter and a better future stretching out before you . 
Your sister is careless of you , I know . 
is barely decent , is unsisterly , and bad . 
Leave the house before her guests arrive . 
She means to give you pain . 
Spare her the offence , and come with me ! Mrs Todgers , though most unwilling to part with her , added her persuasions . 
She hurriedly attired herself , and was ready to depart , when Miss Pecksniff dashed into the room . 
Miss Pecksniff dashed in so suddenly , that she was placed in an embarrassing position . 
'So , young lady ! said the old man , eyeing her with strong disfavour . 
'You are to be married to day ! 'Yes , sir , returned Miss Pecksniff , modestly . 
I my dress is rather really , Mrs Todgers ! 'Your delicacy , said old Martin , 'is troubled , I perceive . 
I am not surprised to find it so . 
You have chosen the period of your marriage unfortunately . 
You will scarcely think it manly , I hope , to force an argument on me , when Augustus is at all times ready to discuss it with you . 
But I will not ask you as it is seeing that you have been prepossessed and set against me in another quarter . 
I hope I have my natural affections for another quarter , and my natural pity for another quarter but I cannot always submit to be subservient to it , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
That would be a little too much . 
I trust I have more respect for myself , as well as for the man who claims me as his Bride . 
'I am very happy to find that she has some good fortune at last , returned Miss Pecksniff , tossing her head . 
'I congratulate her , I am sure . 
I am not surprised that this event should be painful to her painful to her but I can't help that , Mr Chuzzlewit . 
'Come , Miss Pecksniff ! said the old man , quietly . 
'I should like to see a better parting between you . 
I should like to see a better parting on your side , in such circumstances . 
It would make me your friend . 
You may want a friend one day or other . 
'Every relation of life , Mr Chuzzlewit , begging your pardon and every friend in life , returned Miss Pecksniff , with dignity , 'is now bound up and cemented in Augustus . 
So long as Augustus is my own , I cannot want a friend . 
When you speak of friends , sir , I must beg , once for all , to refer you to Augustus . 
That is my impression of the religious ceremony in which I am so soon to take a part at that altar to which Augustus will conduct me . 
I bear no malice at any time , much less in a moment of triumph , towards any one much less towards my sister . 
On the contrary , I congratulate her . 
If you didn't hear me say so , I am not to blame . 
After these words the bridal bonnet disappeared with as much state as the dimity bedgown left in it . 
Old Martin gave his arm to the younger sister without speaking and led her out . 
She had a lean , lank body , Mrs Todgers , but a well conditioned soul within . 
Perhaps the good Samaritan was lean and lank , and found it hard to live . 
Who knows ! Mr Chuzzlewit followed her so closely with his eyes , that , until she had shut her own door , they did not encounter Mr Tapley's face . 
'A coincidence as never was equalled ! I'm blessed if here ain't two old neighbours of ourn , sir ! 'What neighbours ? cried old Martin , looking out of window . 
'Neighbours , where ? 'Here , sir ! replied Mr Tapley . 
'Neighbours , WHERE ? old Martin shouted almost maddened by his ineffectual efforts to get out at the coach door . 
'Neighbours in America ! Neighbours in Eden ! cried Mark . 
'Neighbours in the swamp , neighbours in the bush , neighbours in the fever . 
'Get up , behind ! he said . 
'Get up in the rumble . 
Come along with me ! Go you on the box , Mark . 
Home ! Home ! 'Home ! cried Mr Tapley , seizing the old man's hand in a burst of enthusiasm . 
'Exactly my opinion , sir . 
Home for ever ! Excuse the liberty , sir , I can't help it . 
Success to the Jolly Tapley ! There's nothin' in the house they shan't have for the askin' for , except a bill . 
And now the wedding party began to assemble at Todgers's . 
Mr Jinkins , the only boarder invited , was on the ground first . 
, with a variety of tortuous embellishments about the pockets , invented by the artist to do honour to the day . 
The miserable Augustus no longer felt strongly even on the subject of Jinkins . 
He hadn't strength of mind enough to do it . 
'Let him come ! he had said , in answer to Miss Pecksniff , when she urged the point . 
'Let him come ! He has ever been my rock ahead through life . 
'Tis meet he should be there . 
Ha , ha ! Oh , yes ! let Jinkins come ! Jinkins had come with all the pleasure in life , and there he was . 
For some few minutes he had no companion but the breakfast , which was set forth in the drawing room , with unusual taste and ceremony . 
But Mrs Todgers soon joined him and the bachelor cousin , the hairy young gentleman , and Mr and Mrs Spottletoe , arrived in quick succession . 
Mr Spottletoe honoured Jinkins with an encouraging bow . 
'Glad to know you , sir , he said . 
'Give you joy ! Under the impression that Jinkins was the happy man . 
He was merely doing the honours for his friend Moddle , who had ceased to reside in the house , and had not yet arrived . 
'Not arrived , sir ! exclaimed Spottletoe , in a great heat . 
'Not yet , said Mr Jinkins . 
'Upon my soul ! cried Spottletoe . 
Death ! Not arrived yet . 
Not here to receive us ! The nephew with the outline of a countenance , suggested that perhaps he had ordered a new pair of boots , and they hadn't come home . 
'Don't talk to me of Boots , sir ! retorted Spottletoe , with immense indignation . 
'He is bound to come here in his slippers then he is bound to come here barefoot . 
Don't offer such a wretched and evasive plea to me on behalf of your friend , as Boots , sir . 
'He is not MY friend , said the nephew . 
'Very well , sir , returned the fiery Spottletoe . 
'Then don't talk to me ! The door was thrown open at this juncture , and Miss Pecksniff entered , tottering , and supported by her three bridesmaids . 
The strong minded woman brought up the rear having waited outside until now , for the purpose of spoiling the effect . 
'How do you do , ma'am ! said Spottletoe to the strong minded woman in a tone of defiance . 
'I believe you see Mrs Spottletoe , ma'am ? The strong minded woman with an air of great interest in Mrs Spottletoe's health , regretted that she was not more easily seen . 
Nature erring , in that lady's case , upon the slim side . 
'Mrs Spottletoe is at least more easily seen than the bridegroom , ma'am , returned that lady's husband . 
'That is , unless he has confined his attentions to any particular part or branch of this family , which would be quite in keeping with its usual proceedings . 
'If you allude to me , sir the strong minded woman began . 
Augustus has not been introduced to any of my relations now present . 
That is my opinion of HIM ! The strong minded woman remarked with great suavity , that she was afraid he must be . 
Her three daughters observed aloud that it was 'Shameful ! 'You do not know Augustus , said Miss Pecksniff , tearfully , 'indeed you do not know him . 
Augustus is all mildness and humility . 
Wait till you see Augustus , and I am sure he will conciliate your affections . 
'The question arises , said Spottletoe , folding his arms 'How long we are to wait . 
I am not accustomed to wait that's the fact . 
And I want to know how long we are expected to wait . 
'Mrs Todgers ! said Charity , 'Mr Jinkins ! I am afraid there must be some mistake . 
The bride was now alarmed seriously alarmed . 
Good Heavens , what could have happened ! Augustus ! Dear Augustus ! Mr Jinkins volunteered to take a cab , and seek him at the newly furnished house . 
The strong minded woman administered comfort to Miss Pecksniff . 
'It was a specimen of what she had to expect . 
It would do her good . 
It would dispel the romance of the affair . 
The red nosed daughters also administered the kindest comfort . 
'Perhaps he'd come , they said . 
The sketchy nephew hinted that he might have fallen off a bridge . 
The wrath of Mr Spottletoe resisted all the entreaties of his wife . 
Miss Pecksniff opened it , uttered a piercing shriek , threw it down upon the ground , and fainted away . 
They picked it up and crowding round , and looking over one another's shoulders , read , in the words and dashes following , this communication 'OFF GRAVESEND . 
'CLIPPER SCHOONER , CUPID 'Wednesday night 'EVER INJURED MISS PECKSNIFF Ere this reaches you , the undersigned will be if not a corpse on the way to Van Dieman's Land . 
I never will be taken alive ! 'The burden tons per register forgive , if in my distraction , I allude to the ship on my mind has been truly dreadful . 
Frequently when you have sought to soothe my brow with kisses has self destruction flashed across me . 
Frequently incredible as it may seem have I abandoned the idea . 
Everything appears to be somebody else's . 
Nothing in the world is mine not even my Situation which I have forfeited by my rash conduct in running away . 
'If you ever loved me , hear my last appeal ! The last appeal of a miserable and blighted exile . 
Forward the inclosed it is the key of my desk to the office by hand . 
Please address to Bobbs and Cholberry I mean to Chobbs and Bolberry but my mind is totally unhinged . 
I left a penknife with a buckhorn handle in your work box . 
It will repay the messenger . 
I will not reproach , for I have wronged you . 
They thought as little of Miss Pecksniff , while they greedily perused this letter , as if she were the very last person on earth whom it concerned . 
But Miss Pecksniff really had fainted away . 
Miss Pecksniff had fainted away in earnest . 
But , in those sounds with which it is thy wont to bear the twilight company , the music of thy heart speaks out the story of thy life relates itself . 
Thy life is tranquil , calm , and happy , Tom . 
From the Present , and the Past , with which she is so tenderly entwined in all thy thoughts , thy strain soars onward to the Future . 
