Talleyrand circa To A. V. In memory of Certain Ausonian Feasts Preface Montaigne in one of his essays mentions the high excellence Italian cookery had attained in his day . 
It is consistent with Montaigne's large minded habit thus to applaud the gifts of this master of his art who happened not to be a Frenchman . 
French cookery of the grand school suffers by being associated with such commonplace achievements . 
He still lives and thrives . 
Contents Prologue Part I The First Day The Second Day . 
The Fourth Day The Fifth Day . 
The Seventh Day The Eighth Day The Ninth Day . 
Part II Recipes Sauces No. . 
A Condiment for Seasoning Minestre , c . 
Minestra of Rice and Turnips . 
Minestra of Rice and Cabbage . 
Minestra of Rice and Celery . 
Filletti di Pesce alla Villeroy . 
Fillets of Salmon in Papiliotte . 
Beef , Mutton , Veal , Lamb , c . 
Coscia di Manzo al Forno . 
Manzo con sugo di Barbabietole . 
Costolette di Montone alla Nizzarda . 
Petto di Castrato alla Salsa piccante . 
Tenerumi d' Agnello alla Villeroy . 
Tenerumi d' Agnello alla Veneziana . 
Tongue , Sweetbread , Calf's Head , Liver , Sucking Pig , c . 
Lingua di Manzo al Citriuoli . 
Lingue di Castrato alla Cuciniera . 
Porcelletto da Latte in Galantina . 
Testa di Vitello alla Sorrentina . 
Testa di Vitello con Salsa Napoletana . 
Testa di Vitello alla Pompadour . 
Testa di Vitello alla Sanseverino . 
Testa di Vitello in Frittata . 
Marinata di Cervello alla Villeroy . 
Animelle al Sapor di Targone . 
Fowl , Duck , Game , Hare , Rabbit , c . 
Pollastro in Fricassea al Burro . 
Pollastro in istufa di Pomidoro . 
Cavoli di Bruxelles alla Savoiarda . 
Carote e piselli alla panna . 
Cestelline cli patate alla giardiniera . 
Macaroni , Rice , Polenta , All Other Italian Pastes . 
Macaroni with Tomatoes Macaroni alla Casalinga . 
Omelettes and Other Egg Dishes . 
Sauce for Venison , Hare , c . 
Sauce for Roast Pork , Ham , c . 
For masking Cutlets , c . 
London had for her the peculiar attraction it has for so many Italians , and the weeks she spent upon its stones were commonly the happiest of the year . 
The review she took of her letters before breaking the seals first puzzled her , and then roused certain misgivings in her heart . 
In the first place , our dinner on Thursday is impossible , and in the second , I have lost Narcisse and forever . 
You commented favourably upon that supreme of lobster and the Ris de Veau a la Renaissance we tasted last week , but never again will you meet the handiwork of Narcisse . 
A young lady seems to have helped him so I fear Narcisse has broken more than one of the commandments in this final escapade . 
Meantime the only consolation I can perceive is the chance of a cup of tea with you this afternoon . 
J. O. Sir John Oglethorpe had been her husband's oldest and best friend . 
She threw aside the letter with a gesture of vexation , and opened the next . 
Sweetest Marchesa , it began , how can I tell you my grief at having to postpone our dinner for Friday . 
May I look in tomorrow afternoon and pour out my grief to you ? Yours cordially , Pamela St . 
One hears now and again pleasant remarks about the worn out Latin races , but I know of one Latin race which can do better than this in cookery . 
And having thus delivered herself , the Marchesa lay back on the pillows and reviewed the situation . 
She was sorry in a way to miss the Colonel's dinner . 
Lady Considine's dinners were indifferent , and the guests were apt to be a bit too smart and too redolent of last season's Monte Carlo odour . 
The Fothergill dinners were like all other dinners given by the Fothergills of society . 
They were costly , utterly undistinguished , and invariably graced by the presence of certain guests who seemed to have been called in out of the street at the last moment . 
Van der Roet's Japanese menus were curious , and at times inimical to digestion , but the personality of the host was charming . 
As to Sir John Oglethorpe , the question of the dinner postponed troubled her little another repast , the finest that London's finest restaurant could furnish , would certainly be forthcoming before long . 
In Sir John's case , her discomposure took the form of sympathy for her friend in his recent bereavement . 
Those present were gathered in two groups . 
But , my dear , it is inconceivable that the comfort and the movement of society should depend on the humours of its servants . 
That 'somehow' is the crux , my dear Livia , said Mrs. Sinclair . 
I have a plan of my own , but I dare not breathe it , for I'm sure Mrs. Gradinger would call it 'anti social , whatever that may mean . 
I should imagine that it is a term which might be applied to any scheme which robs society of the ministrations of its cooks , said Sir John . 
I have heard mathematicians declare that what is true of the whole is true of its parts , said the Marchesa . 
I daresay it is , but I never stopped to inquire . 
I will amplify on my own account , and lay down that what is true of the parts must be true of the whole . 
I'm sure that sounds quite right . 
I may observe but here mercifully the observation was checked by the entry of Mrs. St . 
She was a handsome woman , always dominated by an air of serious preoccupation , sumptuously , but not tastefully dressed . 
In the social struggle upwards , wealth was the only weapon she possessed , and wealth without dexterity has been known to fail before this . 
You'll have some tea , Mrs. Fothergill ? said the Marchesa . 
It's so good of you to have come . 
No , really , I can't take any tea in fact , I couldn't take any lunch out of vexation at having to put you off , my dear Marchesa . 
Oh , these accidents will occur . 
We were just discussing the best way of getting round them , said the Marchesa . 
Now , dear , speaking to Mrs. Sinclair let's have your plan . 
Mrs. Gradinger has fastened like a leech on the Canon and Mrs. Wilding , and won't hear a word of what you have to say . 
Well , my scheme is just an amplification of your mathematical illustrations , that we should all learn to cook for ourselves . 
I regard it no longer as impossible , or even difficult , since you have informed us that you are a mistress of the art . 
We'll start a new school of cookery , and you shall teach us all you know . 
Ah , my dear Laura , you are like certain English women in the hunting field . 
You are inclined to rush your fences , said the Marchesa with a deprecatory gesture . 
And just look at the people gathered here in this room . 
Wouldn't they to continue the horsey metaphor be rather an awkward team to drive ? Not at all , if you had them in suitable surroundings . 
Might not that lead to a confusion between rewards and punishments ? said Sir John . 
I don't want to sit down to another of Mr. Van der Roet's Japanese salads made of periwinkles and wallflowers . 
And we must first catch our millionaire , said the Colonel . 
During these remarks Mrs. Fothergill had been standing with parted lips and straining eyes , the eyes of one who is seeking to cut in . 
What a delightful idea dear Mrs. Sinclair's is . 
This unlooked for proposition almost took away the Marchesa's breath . 
Ah , Mrs. Fothergill , she said , it was Mrs. Sinclair's plan , not mine . 
My dear , it would be a new sensation , and one you would enjoy beyond everything . 
I am sure it is a scheme every one here will hail with acclamation , said Mrs. Sinclair . 
All other conversation had now ceased , and the eyes of the rest of the company were fixed on the speaker . 
Such an opportunity is one in ten thousand . 
Surely all of us even the Marchesa must see that it is one not to be neglected . 
I approve thoroughly , said Mrs. Gradinger the acquisition of knowledge , even in so material a field as that of cookery , is always a clear gain . 
It will give Gradinger a chance to put in a couple of days at Ascot , whispered Van der Roet . 
Where Mrs. Gradinger leads , all must follow , said Miss Macdonnell . 
Take the sense of the meeting , Mrs. Sinclair , before the Marchesa has time to enter a protest . 
And is the proposed instructress to have no voice in the matter ? said the Marchesa , laughing . 
None at all , except to consent , said Mrs. Sinclair you are going to be absolute mistress over us for the next fortnight , so you surely might obey just this once . 
You have been denouncing one of our cherished institutions , Marchesa , said Lady Considine , so I consider you are bound to help us to replace the British cook by something better . 
If Mrs. Sinclair has set her heart on this interesting experiment . 
I shall back up Mrs. Sinclair's proposition with all my power , said Mrs. Wilding . 
The Canon will be in residence at Martlebridge for the next month , and I would much rather be learning cookery under the Marchesa than staying with my brother in law at Ealing . 
You'll have to do it , Marchesa , said Van der Roet when a new idea catches on like this , there's no resisting it . 
A chorus of applause went up as soon as the Marchesa ceased speaking . 
Would it not be as well to send the cook home for a holiday ? said the Colonel . 
It might be safer , and lead to less broth being spoilt . 
I propose , therefore , that our society be called the 'New Decameron . 
Most appropriate , said Miss Macdonnell , especially as it owes its origin to an outbreak of plague the plague in the kitchen . 
The First Day On the Tuesday morning the Marchesa travelled down to the Laurestinas , where she found that Mrs. Fothergill had been as good as her word . 
Everything was in perfect order . 
Now , with Angelina's assistance , she proposed to set before the company their first dinner all'Italiana , and the last they would taste without having participated in the preparation . 
The real work was to begin the following morning . 
The dinner was both a revelation and a surprise to the majority of the company . 
You have given us a delicious dinner , Marchesa , said Mrs. Wilding as the coffee appeared . 
Everything Mrs. Wilding mixes will be mixed admirably , as admirably , say , as that sauce which was served with the Manzo alla Certosina , Sir John replied . 
The dinner we have just eaten is surely only within the reach of rich people . 
I wish some of the rich people I dine with could manage now and then to reach a dinner as good , said the Colonel . 
When I use the word simplicity , I allude , of course , to everyday cooking . 
Dishes of luxury in any school require elaboration , care , and watchfulness . 
Menu Dinner Zuppa d'uova alla Toscana . 
Fillet of beef , Certosina sauce . 
The recipes for the dishes contained in all these menus will be found in the second part of the book . 
The limits of the seasons have necessarily been ignored . 
The Second Day Wednesday's luncheon was anticipated with some curiosity , or even searchings of heart , as in it would appear the first fruits of the hand of the amateur . 
The Marchesa wisely restricted it to two dishes , for the compounding of which she requisitioned the services of Lady Considine , Mrs. Sinclair , and the Colonel . 
The others she sent to watch Angelina and her circle while they were preparing the vegetables and the dinner entrees . 
After the luncheon dishes had been discussed , they were both proclaimed admirable . 
My congratulations to you on your curry , Colonel Trestrail , said Miss Macdonnell . 
You haven't followed the English fashion of flavouring a curry by emptying the pepper pot into the dish ? Pepper properly used is the most admirable of condiments , the Colonel said . 
Why this association of the Colonel and pepper ? said Van der Roet . 
In this society we ought to be as nice in our phraseology as in our flavourings , and be careful to eschew the incongruous . 
You are coughing , Mrs. Wilding . 
Let me give you some water . 
I saw a landscape of yours the other day , which looked as if some of my curry powder had got into the sunset . 
I mean the one poor blind old Wilkins bought at your last show . 
Ah , but that sunset was an inspiration , Colonel , and consequently beyond your comprehension . 
I must say that the breast of veal , which is the part we had for lunch today , is a somewhat insipid dish when cooked English fashion . 
I fear the vein of incongruity in our discourse , lately noted by Van der Roet , is not quite exhausted , said Sir John . 
To return to our veal . 
The chief positive idea they have of its characteristics is that which they gather from the odour of a French or Italian crowd of peasants at a railway station . 
It is a primary maxim , and one which cannot be repeated too often , that garlic must never be cut up and used as part of the material of any dish . 
Then it must be taken out at once . 
The Marchesa gave the Colonel and Lady Considine a holiday that afternoon , and requested Mrs. Gradinger and Van der Roet to attend in the kitchen to help with the dinner . 
Menu Lunch Tenerumi di Vitello . 
Pigeons , braized with liver , c . 
Curry Menu Dinner Zuppa alla nazionale . 
The Third Day I observe , dear Marchesa , said Mrs. Fothergill at breakfast on Thursday morning , that we still follow the English fashion in our breakfast dishes . 
In these England stands supreme there is nothing to compare with them , and they possess the crowning merit of being entirely compatible with English life . 
It seems that I am more English than certain of the English themselves , and I am sorry that Mrs. Fothergill has been deprived of her French roll and butter . 
I will see that you have it to morrow , Mrs. Fothergill , and to make the illusion complete , I will order it to be sent to your room . 
I fancy , said Mrs. Sinclair , that foreigners are taking to English breakfasts as well as English clothes . 
The German would probably call for boiled eggs when abroad on account of the impossibility of getting such things in his own country . 
That is quite true , said the Marchesa but in England we have no time to concern ourselves with mere boiled eggs , delicious as they are . 
The roll of delicacies is long enough , or even too long without them . 
Considering how good the dishes are , I wonder the breakfasts are not mightier than they are . 
It always strikes me that our national barrenness of ideas appears as plainly in our breakfasts as anywhere , said Mrs. Gradinger . 
There is a monotony about them which Monotony ! interrupted the Colonel . 
Why , I could dish you up a fresh breakfast every day for a month . 
Your conservative tendencies must be very strong , Mrs. Gradinger , if they lead you to this conclusion . 
Well , to come back to the fungi , I took the trouble to measure the plot on which they were growing , and found it just ten yards square . 
The average weight of edible fungus per square yard was just an ounce , or a hundred and twelve pounds per acre . 
Here Mrs. Gradinger paused to finish her coffee , which was getting cold , and before she could resume , Sir John had taken up the parole . 
I think the smaller weight will suffice for the present , until the taste for strange fungi has developed , or the pressure of population increased . 
Perhaps Mrs. Gradinger will gather a few of her less deadly fungi , and cook them and eat them herself , pour encourager les autres , said Miss Macdonnell . 
Then , if she doesn't die in agonies , we may all forswear beef and live on toadstools . 
I certainly will , said Mrs. Gradinger and before we rise from table I should like I fear we must hear your remarks at dinner , Mrs. Gradinger , said the Marchesa . 
Time is getting on , and some of the dishes to day are rather elaborate , so now to the kitchen . 
Lingue di Castrato alla cucinira . 
Sheeps' tongues alla cucinira Menu Dinner Zuppa alla Veneziana . 
Petto di Castrato alla salsa di burro . 
Breast of mutton with butter sauce . 
THE FOURTH DAY THE Colonel was certainly the most severely critical member of the company . 
After specially commending this dish he went on It seems to me that the dinner of yesterday and to day's lunch bear the cachet of a fresh and admirable school of cookery . 
Well , the Colonel has found me out but from the tone of his remarks I think I may hope for his approval . 
At any rate , I'm sure he won't move a vote of censure . 
If he does , we'll pack him off to town , and sentence him to dine at his club every day for a month , said Lady Considine . 
What crime has this particular club committed ? said Mrs. Sinclair in a whisper . 
Vote of censure ! Certainly not , said the Colonel , with an angry ring in his voice . 
Mrs. Sinclair did not love him , and had calculated accurately the carrying power of her whisper . 
That would be the basest ingratitude . 
I must , however , plead guilty to an attack of curiosity , and therefore I beg you , Marchesa , to let us into the secret of your latest inspiration . 
Its origin was commonplace enough , said the Marchesa , but in a way interesting . 
All the while I was innocently plagiarising that fateful walk of Browning's round the Riccardi Palace in Florence , the day when he bought for a lira the Romana homocidiorum . 
The world knows what was the outcome of Browning's purchase , but it will probably never fathom the full effect of mine . 
How do his lines run ? These I picked the book from . 
What infinite possibilities of pleasure might lie hidden under such a name . 
I should now be a rich woman if I had spent all the money I have spent as profitably as those seven sold . 
Besides being a master in the art of cookery , the author was a moral philosopher as well and he addresses his reader in prefatory words which bespeak a profound knowledge of life . 
I allude to that moment when , the forces being spent and the stomach craving support , the wearied mortal sits down to face a good dinner . 
Here is to be found an effectual balm for the ills of life something to drown all remembrance of our ill humours , the worries of business , or even family quarrels . 
I fancy the individual renderings of the same recipe would vary quite as widely as the versions of the unsavoury story set forth in Mr. Browning's little poem . 
I think we had better have a supplementary day for a trial of the sort Mrs. Sinclair suggests , said Miss Macdonnell . 
I speak with the memory of a preparation of liver I tasted yesterday in the kitchen one of the dishes which did not appear at dinner . 
And I must say I always find the question of quantities a difficult one . 
Quantities can be given approximately in many cases , but flavouring must always be a question of individual taste . 
To put it briefly , cooks who need to be told everything , will never cook properly , even if they be told more than everything . 
Menu Lunch Maccheroni al sugillo . 
Macaroni with sausage and tomatoes . 
Beef , pressed and marinated . 
Pollastro in istufa di pomidoro . 
And this is the th of June , said Lady Considine . 
Last year , on this very day , I started for Hombourg . 
I can't say I feel like starting for Hombourg , or any other place , just at present . 
But why should any one of us want to go to Hombourg ? said Sir John . 
Nobody can be afraid of gout with the admirable diet we enjoy here . 
I beg you to speak for yourself , Sir John , said Lady Considine . 
I have never yet gone to Hombourg on account of gout . 
Of course not , my dear friend , of course not there are so many reasons for going to Hombourg . 
There's the early rising , and the band , and the new people one may meet there , and the change of diet especially the change of diet . 
I must say my own digestion is none the worse for the holiday I am having from the preparations of my own 'treasure . 
I think we all look remarkably well and we don't quarrel or snap at each other , and it would be hard to find a better proof of wholesome diet than that . 
We aren't sufficiently awake to the claims of the masses . 
I often feel inclined to agree to any proposition she likes to put forward , and I would , if I could stop her talking by my submission . 
You wouldn't do that , Colonel , even in your suavest mood , said Van der Roet but I hope somebody will succeed in checking her flow of discourse before long . 
I'm getting worn to a shadow by the grind of that awful voice . 
I thought your clothes were getting a bit loose , said the Colonel , but I put that phenomenon down to another reason . 
Here comes the Marchesa we'll ask her to solve the mystery . 
I can account for the missing sirloin , said the Marchesa . 
The Colonel is wrong for once . 
It went duly into the kitchen , and not to Mr. Van der Roet's bedroom but I must begin with a slight explanation , or rather apology . 
With this fact before my eyes , I can assure you I did not lightly lay a hand on its integrity . 
My friends , you have eaten that sirloin without knowing it . 
You may remember that yesterday after lunch the Colonel was loud in praise of a dish of beef . 
Well , that beef was a portion of the same , and not the best portion . 
I have never heard that the kitchen hankers after it inordinately indeed , its ultimate destination is one of the unexplained mysteries of housekeeping . 
I hold that never , under any circumstances , should it be cooked with the sirloin , but always cut off and marinated and braized as we had it yesterday . 
Thus you get two hot dishes our particular sirloin has given us three . 
Mrs. Sinclair is sufficiently experienced as a housekeeper to know that the dish of fillets we had for dinner last night was not made from the under cut of one sirloin . 
On the score of economy , I am sure that a sirloin treated in this fashion goes a long way further . 
The Marchesa demolishes one after another of our venerable institutions with so charming a despatch that we can scarcely grieve for them , said Sir John . 
I am not philosopher enough to divine what change may come over the British character when every man sits down every day to a perfectly cooked dinner . 
It may mean , Marchesa , that this movement of yours for the suppression of English plain cooking will mark the close of our national expansion . 
When have I ever denied the merits of English cookery ? said the Marchesa . 
Many of its dishes are unsurpassed . 
These islands produce materials so fine , that no art or elaboration can improve them . 
They are best when they are cooked quite plainly , and this is the reason why simplicity is the key note of English cookery . 
It is , as I have already said , the cookery of a nation short of cash and unblessed with such excellent meat and fish and vegetables as you lucky islanders enjoy . 
Menu Lunch Gnocchi alla Romana . 
Filetto di Bue al pistacchi . 
Fillet of beef with pistachios Bodini marinati . 
Atelets of ox palates , c . 
Costolette di Montone alla Nizzarda . 
It was stated , however , that Sir John was in no way indisposed , and that he would join the party at lunch . 
Well , I have just received from a friend in Paris journals containing a full account of the trial of Narcisse and of his fair accomplice . 
The Marchesa sighed as she listened . 
Will it be too much , she said , to ask you to give us the details of this painful tragedy ? It will not , Sir John replied reflectively . 
The last words of many a so called genius have been enshrined in literature probably no one will ever know the parting objurgation of Narcisse . 
I will endeavour , however , to give you some notion as to what occurred , from the budget I have just read . 
I fear the tragedy was a squalid one . 
Madame , the victim , was elderly , unattractive in person , exacting in temper , and the owner of considerable wealth at least , this is what came out at the trial . 
It was one of those tangles in which a fatal denouement is inevitable and , if this had not come through Mademoiselle Sidonie , it would have come through somebody else . 
Detection seemed imminent , so Narcisse , in whom the quality of discretion was evidently predominant , bolted at once and got out of the country . 
But the facts were absolutely clear . 
The victim lived long enough to depose that Mademoiselle Sidonie attacked her with the wood chopper , while Narcisse watched the door . 
The advocate of Narcisse did his work like a man . 
Some one had to be guillotined , and the intelligent jury decided that Paris could spare Narcisse better than it could spare Mademoiselle Sidonie . 
It is a revolting story , said Mrs. Gradinger , and one possible only in a corrupted and corrupting society . 
It is wonderful , as Sir John remarks , how the conquering streams of tendency manifest themselves even in an affair like this . 
You see you are a mere worm , Sir John , laughed Miss Macdonnell , and you had better lay out your length to be trampled on . 
Yes , I have long foreseen our fate , we who happen to possess what our poor brother hankers after . 
Well , perhaps I may take up the worm's role at once and 'turn' , that is , burn the recipe of Narcisse . 
O Sir John , Sir John , cried Mrs. Sinclair any such burning would remind me irresistibly of Mr. Mantalini's attempts at suicide . 
There would be an accurate copy in your pocket book , and besides this you would probably have learnt off the recipe by heart . 
It would go admirably with one of our lunch dishes for to morrow . 
But on the subject of the sauce , Sir John like the younger Mr. Smallweed on the subject of gravy was adamant . 
The wound caused by the loss of Narcisse was , he declared , yet too recent the very odour of the sauce would provoke a thousand agonising regrets . 
If only I could hit upon a fetching name , and find twenty thousand pounds to spend in advertising , I might be able once more to live on my acres . 
Spring soup Sote di Salmone al funghi . 
Breast of lamb alla Veneziana . 
Testa di Vitello alla sorrentina . 
Uova alla fiorentina , Egg savoury . 
I have never ceased to regret that my regard for manners forbade me ask for a second helping . 
See what it is to have no manners , said Van der Roet . 
I plunged boldly for another portion of that admirable preparation of calf's head at dinner . 
If I hadn't , I should have regretted it for ever after . 
Now , I'm sure you are just as curious about the construction of these masterpieces as I am , Mrs. Sinclair , so we'll beg the Marchesa to let us into the secret . 
Mrs. Sinclair herself had a hand in the calf's head dish , 'Testa di Vitello alla sorrentina , so perhaps I may hand over that part of the question to her . 
I think I may without presumption claim the clear soup as a triumph , and it is a discovery of my own . 
The same calf's head which Mrs. Sinclair has treated with such consummate skill , served also as the foundation for the stock of the clear soup . 
This stock certainly derived its distinction from the addition of the liquor in which the head was boiled . 
A good consomme can no doubt be made with stock meat alone , but the best soup thus made will be inferior to that we had for dinner last night . 
I have marvelled often at the clearness of your soups , Marchesa , said the Colonel . 
Like the poet , the consomme is born , not made . 
To clear a soup by the ordinary medium of white of egg or minced beef is to destroy all flavour and individuality . 
If the stock be kept from boiling until it has been strained , it will develop into a perfectly clear soup under the hands of a careful and intelligent cook . 
I mean the neglect of natural in favour of manufactured flavourings . 
And simultaneously with the use of herb flavouring in soup has arisen the practice of adding wine , which to me seems a very questionable one . 
If wine is put in soup at all , it must be used so sparingly as to render its presence imperceptible . 
'Oh , a table spoonful of somebody's sauce will do for the flavouring , and in goes the sauce , and the flavouring is supposed to be complete . 
Yet as a Churchwoman , Mrs. Wilding , you ought to speak with respect of English sauces . 
'The New Century Sauce' , that's the name for me and now to set to work to build the factory , and to order plans for the temple of the tenth muse . 
Macaroni with tomatoes , Vitello alla pellegrina . 
Animelle al sapor di targone . 
Soup alla Canavese Naselli con piselli . 
Coscia di manzo al forno . 
Savoury of rice , truffles , c . 
My dear Colonel Trestrail , said the Marchesa , an education in cookery does not mean the teaching of a certain number of recipes . 
With some of you I am sure I have succeeded , and a book containing the recipe of every dish we have tried will be given to every pupil when we break up . 
I think the most valuable lesson I have learnt is that cookery is a matter for serious study , said Mrs. Sinclair . 
The popular English view seems to be that it is one of those things which gets itself done . 
The food is subjected to the action of heat , a little butter , or pepper , or onion , being added by way of flavouring , and the process is complete . 
, while she will be reluctant to give ten minutes to the consideration as to how a luncheon or supper dish shall be prepared . 
The English middle classes are most culpably negligent about the food they eat , and as a consequence they get exactly the sort of cooks they deserve to get . 
I do not blame the cooks if they can get paid for cooking ill , why should they trouble to learn to cook well ? I agree entirely , said Mrs. Wilding . 
My experience is that , if a mistress takes an interest in cooking , she will generally have a fairly efficient cook , said Mrs. Fothergill . 
And the so called schools of cookery are quite useless in what they teach , said Miss Macdonnell . 
'Will you have some tea ? I'm afraid it isn't quite fresh , the hostess will remark without a blush . 
What would she think if her husband at dinner were to say , 'Colonel , take a glass of that champagne . 
I believe it is because she is afraid of the butler . 
I sympathise with you fully , Colonel , said Lady Considine , and my withers are unwrung . 
You do not often honour me with your presence on Tuesdays , but I am sure I may claim to be one of your honourable exceptions . 
Indeed you may , said the Colonel . 
All these little imperfections go to prove that we are not a nation of cooks , said Van der Roet . 
Heine once said that the Romans would never have found time to conquer the world if they had been obliged to learn the Latin grammar and it is the same with us . 
And every one knows the story of Vatel's suicide because the fish failed to arrive . 
No Englishman would be capable of flights like these . 
Really , this indictment of English cookery makes me a little nervous , said Lady Considine I have promised to join in a driving tour through the southern counties . 
I shudder to think of the dinners I shall have to eat at the commercial hotels and posting houses on our route . 
Considered , the balance is against us , said Sir John . 
When you start you ought to secure Sir John's services as courier , Lady Considine , said the Marchesa . 
I once had the pleasure of driving for a week through the Apennines in a party under his guidance , and I can assure you we found him quite honest and obliging . 
Ah , Marchesa , I was thinking of that happy time this very morning , said Sir John . 
Of Arezzo , where we were kept for three days by rain , which I believe is falling there still . 
Of Cortona , with that wonderful little restaurant on the edge of the cliff , whence you see Thrasumene lying like a silver mirror in the plain below . 
Of Perugia , the august , of Gubbio , Citta di Castello , Borgo San Sepolcro , Urbino , and divers others . 
If you go for a drive in Italy , you still may meet with humours of the road such as travellers of old were wont to enjoy . 
I well remember on the road between Perugia and Gubbio we began to realise we were indeed traversing mountain paths . 
On a sudden the driver got down , waved his arms , and howled to some peasants working in a field below . 
These beautiful fellows , it seemed , were what the driver was signalling for , and not for brigands . 
Again , every inn we stayed at supplied us with some representative touch of local life and habit . 
You need not look shocked , Colonel . 
The prete in question was merely a wooden frame , in the midst of which hangs a scaldino filled with burning ashes a most comforting ecclesiastic , I can assure you . 
All the inns we visited had certain characteristics in common . 
In short , Lady Considine , I strongly advise you to take a drive in Italy next spring , and if I am free I shall be delighted to act as courier . 
Sir John has forgotten one or two touches I must fill in , said the Marchesa . 
It was often difficult to arrange a stopping place for lunch , so we always stocked our basket before starting . 
Ah ! how vividly I can recall our pursuit of that picture . 
It was a wet , melancholy day . 
The people of Fano were careless of the fame of their angel , for no one knew the church which it graced . 
Sir John tried hard to keep up the imposition , but something , either his innate honesty or the chilling environment of disapproval of Guercino's handiwork , was too much for him . 
'I think , said Sir John , 'we had better go back to the hotel and order lunch . 
It would have been wiser to have ordered it before we left . 
I plead guilty , said Sir John . 
I think this experience gave a death blow to my career as an appreciator . 
Lobster all'Italiana Filetto di bue alla Napolitana . 
Fillet of beef with Neapolitan sauce . 
Mutton cutlets with Roman sauce . 
To achieve a triumph of any sort demands an effort . 
Effort , said Miss Macdonnell . 
Yes , effort is the word I associate with so many middle class English dinners . 
It often astonishes me that dinner giving of this character should still flourish . 
The explanation is easy , said Van der Roet it flourishes because it gives a mark of distinction . 
It won't do to generalise too widely , Van der Roet , said Sir John . 
The great imperfection seems to lie in the utter want of consideration in the choice of guests . 
A certain number of people and a certain quantity of food shot into a room , that is their notion of a dinner party . 
Dull people often enjoy themselves immensely when they meet dull people only . 
Then the sheep begin to segregate themselves from the goats , and the feast is manque . 
A few roses or chrysanthemums are perfect as accessories , but to load a table with flowers of heavy or pungent scent is an outrage . 
Lilies of the valley are lovely in proper surroundings , but on a dinner table they are anathema . 
And then the mass of paper monstrosities which crowd every corner . 
Swans , nautilus shells , and even wild boars are used to hold up the menu . 
Once my menu was printed on a satin flag , and during the war the universal khaki invaded the dinner table . 
Ices are served in frilled baskets of paper , which have a tendency to dissolve and amalgamate with the sweet . 
The only paper on the table should be the menu , writ plain on a handsome card . 
No one can complain of papery ices here , said the Marchesa . 
And even the ice , the very emblem of purity , has not escaped the touch of the dinner table decorator . 
This was the hostess's pretty taste in ices . 
They are generally made in the shape of camelias this season , said Van der Roet . 
I knew a man who took one and stuck it in his buttonhole . 
I must say I enjoy an ice at dinner , said Lady Considine . 
I know the doctors abuse them , but I notice they always eat them when they get the chance . 
Ah , that is merely human inconsistency , said Sir John . 
I am inclined to agree with the Marchesa that ice at dinner is an incongruity , and may well be dispensed with . 
I think I am correct , Marchesa , in assuming that Italy , which has showered so many boons upon us , gave us also the taste for ices . 
I fear I must agree , said the Marchesa . 
I now feel what a blessing it would have been for you English if you had learnt from us instead the art of cooking the admirable vegetables your gardens produce . 
Plain boiled cauliflower is doubtless good , but cooked alla crema it is far better indeed , it is one of the best vegetable dishes I know . 
But perhaps the greatest discovery in cookery we Italians ever made was the combination of vegetables and cheese . 
There are a dozen excellent methods of cooking cauliflower with cheese , and one of these has come to you through France , choux fleurs au gratin , and has become popular . 
Jerusalem artichokes treated in the same fashion are excellent and the cucumber , nearly always eaten raw in England , holds a first place as a vegetable for cooking . 
I seem to remember that every one was loud in its praises when we tasted it as an adjunct to Manzo alla Certosina . 
Why is it that celery is for the most part only eaten raw with cheese ? We have numberless methods of cooking it in Italy , and beetroot and lettuce as well . 
Menu Lunch Minestrone alla Milanese . 
Anguilla con ortaggi alla Milanese . 
Manzo con sugo di barbabietoli . 
Fillet of beef with beetroot sauce . 
The Tenth Day The sun rose on the tenth and last day at the Laurestinas as he was wont to rise on less eventful mornings . 
At breakfast the Marchesa proposed that the lunch that day should be a little more ornate than usual , and the dinner somewhat simpler . 
He ate steadily through the menu , and when he finally laid down his knife and fork he heaved a sigh , whether of satisfaction or regret it were hard to say . 
Really , Sir John , I'm not sure I ought not to rise and protest , said Mrs. Wilding , and I think I would if it weren't our last day . 
Make a note of Sir John's wickedness , and pass it on to the Canon for use in a sermon , said Van der Roet . 
I am quite ready to join you if I can be of any help , said Mrs. Gradinger . 
You are very good , said the Marchesa , but I think I must adhere to my original scheme of having Mrs. Sinclair by herself . 
I see coffee is now being taken into the garden , so we will adjourn , if you please . 
After the two workers had departed for the kitchen , an unwonted silence fell on the party under the chestnuts . 
Probably every one was pondering over the imminent dissolution of the company , and wondering whether to regret or rejoice . 
The peace had been kept marvellously well , considering the composition of the company . 
Nearly every one was sorry that the end had come . 
It had been real repose to Mrs. Wilding to pass ten days in an atmosphere entirely free from all perfume of the cathedral close . 
Lady Considine had been spending freely of late , and ten days' cessation of tradesmen's calls , and servants on board wages , had come as a welcome relief . 
Sir John had gained a respite from the task he dreaded , the task of going in quest of a successor to Narcisse . 
That evening the guests gathered round the table with more empressement than usual . 
The Marchesa seemed a little flurried , and Mrs. Sinclair , in a way , shared her excitement . 
The menu , for the first time , was written in French , a fact which did not escape Sir John's eye . 
But when Sir John tasted the first mouthful of the fish he paused , and after a reflective and regretful look at his plate , he cast his eye round the table . 
The same subtle influence pervaded the Chartreuse a la cardinal , the roast capon and salad , and the sweet . 
The door opened , and a little man , habited in a cook's dress of spotless white , entered and came forward . 
M. Narcisse , said the Marchesa , Sir John wants to know what sauce was used in dressing the venison perhaps you can tell him . 
Oh , there isn't much to tell , said the Marchesa . 
Narcisse was condemned , indeed , but no one ever believed he would be executed . 
Then it was that the reaction in favour of Narcisse set in the boulevards could not stand this . 
Cabmen en course ran down pedestrians by the dozen , as they discussed l'affaire Narcisse to an accompaniment of whip cracking . 
In less than five minutes the organ was disintegrated , and the luckless minstrel flying with torn trousers down a side street . 
For the next few days la haute gomme promenaded with fragments of the piano organ suspended from watch chains as trophies of victory . 
But this was not all . 
I won't inflict the whole of it on you , but two stanzas I must read 'Puisse je te rappeler loin des brouillards maudits . 
Dear me , it sounds a little like some other Parisian odes I have read recently , said Lady Considine . 
The French seem to have lost all sense of exactness , said Mrs. Gradinger , for the lines you have just read would not pass muster as classic . 
In the penultimate line there are two syllables in excess of the true Alexandrine metre , and the last line seems too long by one . 
Neither Racine nor Voltaire would have taken such liberties with prosody . 
I remember a speech in Phaedre of more than a hundred lines which is an admirable example of what I mean . 
I dare say some of you know it . 
It begins Perfide ! oses tu bien te montrer devant moi ? Monstre , but before the reciter could get fairly under way the door mercifully opened , and Sir John entered . 
He advanced towards the Marchesa , and shook her warmly by the hand , but said nothing his heart was evidently yet too full to allow him to testify his relief in words . 
He was followed closely by the Colonel , who , taking his stand on the hearth rug , treated the company to a few remarks , couched in a strain of unwonted eulogy . 
In the whole course of his life he had never passed a more pleasant ten days , though , to be sure , he had been a little mistrustful at first . 
There was a momentary silence when the Colonel ceased , and then a clearing of the throat and a preliminary movement of the arms gave warning that Mrs. Gradinger was going to speak . 
The unspoken passage from Racine evidently sat heavily on her chest . 
As Colonel Trestrail has just remarked , we , all of us , are in debt to the Marchesa in no small degree but , in my case , the debt is tenfold . 
I am sure you all understand why . 
Narcisse and I have already settled the menu . 
I am delighted to accept , said the Marchesa . 
I have no engagement , and if I had I would throw my best friend over . 
And this day fortnight you must all dine with me , said Mrs. Sinclair . 
I will spend the intervening days in teaching my new cook how to reproduce the Marchesa's dishes . 
Then , perhaps , we may be in a better position to decide on the success of the Marchesa's experiment . 
The next morning witnessed the dispersal of the party . 
Sir John and Narcisse left by an early train , and for the next few days the reforming hand of the last named was active in the kitchen . 
Sir John listened over the balusters to the shrieks and howls of his recovered treasure , and wisely decided to lunch at his club . 
Certainly the repast would not be the same as at the Laurestinas , but it might serve for once . 
Alas ! Sir John did not find the right place , for there are right places amongst the Italian restaurants of London . 
He beat a hasty retreat from the first he entered , when the officious proprietor assured him that he would serve up a dejeuner in the best French style . 
At the second he chose a dish with an Italian name , but the name was the only Italian thing about it . 
It seemed as if Italian restaurateurs were sworn not to cook Italian dishes , and the next day he went to do as best he could at the club . 
James' Street , and towards Morton's he now turned his steps . 
As he entered it , it seemed as if it was only yesterday that he was there . 
He beheld the waiter , with mouth all awry , through calling down the tube . 
The same old mahogany partitions to the boxes , and the same horse hair benches . 
Sir John seated himself in a box , where there was one other luncher in the corner , deeply absorbed over a paper . 
This luncher raised his head and Sir John recognised Van der Roet . 
My dear Vander , whatever brought you here , where nothing is to be had but chops ? I didn't know you could eat a chop . 
Ah ! I see , said Sir John , laughing . 
We've both been on the same quest , and have been equally unlucky . 
Well , we shall satisfy our hunger here at any rate , and not unpleasantly either . 
I went to one place , said Van der Roet and before ordering I asked the waiter if there was any garlic in the dish I had ordered . 
'Garlic , aglio , no , sir , never . 
Whereupon I thought I would go somewhere else . 
Next I entered the establishment of Baldassare Romanelli . 
In short , my dish was beefsteak and onions , and very bad at that . 
So in despair I fell back upon the trusty British chop . 
As Van der Roet ceased speaking another guest entered the room , and he and Sir John listened attentively while the new comer gave his order . 
There was no mistaking the Colonel's strident voice . 
Now , look here ! I want a chop underdone , underdone , you understand , with a potato , and a small glass of Scotch whisky , and I'll sit here . 
The Colonel , by Jove , said Sir John I expect he's been restaurant hunting too . 
Oh , Colonel , Colonel , said Van der Roet . 
Australian wines may be used in all recipes where wine is mentioned Harvest Burgundy for red , and Chasselas for Chablis . 
Espagnole , or Brown Sauce The chief ingredient of this useful sauce is good stock , to which add any remnants and bones of fowl or game . 
If it is not rich enough , add a little Liebig or glaze . 
Pass through a sieve again before using . 
Bechamel Sauce Ingredients Butter , ham , veal , carrots , shallot , celery bay leaf , cloves , thyme , peppercorns , potato flour , cream , fowl stock . 
Put this on a moderate fire so as not to let it colour , and when all the moisture is absorbed add a tablespoonful of potato flour . 
Mix well , and gradually add equal quantities of cream and fowl stock , and stir till it boils . 
Then let it simmer gently . 
Stir occasionally , and if it gets too thick , add more cream and white stock . 
After two hours pass it twice slowly through a tamis so as to get the sauce very smooth . 
Ingredients Bacon , onions , carrots , ham , a bunch of herbs , parsley , mushrooms , cloves , peppercorns , stock , Chablis . 
To this add one and a quarter pint of good stock and a glass of Chablis , boil rapidly for ten minutes then simmer till it is reduced to a third . 
Pass through a sieve and use for masking meat , fowl , fish , c . 
, blond of veal , essence of fish , anchovy butter , crayfish or lobster butter . 
Then stir it over the fire , and add half a teaspoonful of crayfish and half of anchovy butter . 
Italian Sauce Ingredients Chablis , mushrooms , leeks , a bunch of herbs , peppercorns , Espagnole sauce , game gravy or stock , lemon . 
Ham Sauce , Salsa di Prosciutto Ingredients Ham , Musca or sweet port , vinegar , basil spice . 
Boil it up , and then pass it through a sieve and warm it up in a bain marie . 
If you cannot get a sweet wine add half a teaspoonful of sugar . 
Australian Muscat is a good wine to use . 
Tarragon Sauce Ingredients Tarragon , stock , butter , flour . 
To half a pint of good stock add two good sprays of fresh tarragon , simmer for quarter of an hour in a stewpan and keep the lid on . 
Mix well , add a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and boil for two minutes . 
Tomato Sauce Ingredients Tomatoes , ham , onions , basil , salt , oil , garlic , spices . 
Then boil and pass through a sieve . 
Whilst the sauce is boiling , put in a clove of garlic with a cut , but remove it before you pass the sauce through the sieve . 
Over this pour a third of a cup of vinegar , and when the liquid is all absorbed , add half a glass of Chablis and a cup of stock . 
Then add six tomatoes cut up and strained of all their liquid . 
Cook this in a covered stewpan and pass it through a sieve , but see that none of the bay leaf or thyme goes through . 
Mushroom Sauce Ingredients Velute sauce , essence of mushrooms , butter . 
, reduce , keep on stirring , and just before serving add an ounce of butter . 
This sauce can be made with essence of truffle , or game , or shallot . 
, tomato sauce , game stock or essence . 
In another saucepan put two cups of Espagnole sauce , one cupful of tomato sauce , and half a cup of game stock or essence . 
Reduce a third , and add the contents of the first saucepan , boil the sauce a few minutes , and pass it through a sieve . 
Warm it up in a bain marie before using . 
Neapolitan Anchovy Sauce Ingredients Anchovies , fennel , flour , spices , parsley , marjoram , garlic , lemon juice , vinegar , cream . 
Wash three anchovies in vinegar , bone and pound them in a mortar with a teaspoonful of chopped fennel and a pinch of cinnamon . 
Pass through a sieve , add a clove of garlic with a cut in it , and boil . 
If the fish you are using is cooked in the oven , add a little of the liquor in which it has been cooked to the sauce . 
Take out the garlic before serving . 
Instead of anchovies you may use caviar , pickled tunny , or any other pickled fish . 
Ingredients Espagnole sauce , stock , burnt sugar , vinegar , raisins , pine nuts or almonds . 
Mix two spoonsful of burnt sugar with one of vinegar , and dilute with a little good stock . 
Keep this hot in a bain marie , and serve with cutlets , calf's head or feet or tongue . 
The pinocchi which Italians use instead of almonds can be bought in London when in season No. . 
Ingredients Espagnole sauce , an onion , butter , flour , lemon , herbs , nutmeg , raisins , pine nuts or almonds , burnt sugar . 
Add this to a good Espagnole , and warm it up in a bain marie . 
Supreme Sauce Ingredients White sauce , fowl stock , butter . 
Put three quarters of a pint of white sauce into a saucepan , and when it is nearly boiling add half a cup of concentrated fowl stock . 
Reduce until the sauce is quite thick , and when about to serve pass it through a tamis into a bain marie and add two tablespoonsful of cream . 
Mix the following ingredients well together two ounces of semolina flour , the yolks of two eggs , a little salt , and two ounces of melted butter . 
Add a glass of water so as to form a liquid substance . 
At the last add the whites of two eggs beaten up to a snow . 
White Villeroy Ingredients Butter , flour , eggs , cream , nutmeg , white stock . 
Make a light coloured roux by frying two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour , stir in some white stock and keep it very smooth . 
Let it boil , and add the yolks of three eggs , mixed with two tablespoonsful of cream and a pinch of nutmeg . 
Pass it through a sieve and use for masking cutlets , fish , c . 
, three carrots , three turnips , three onions , three cloves stuck in the onions , one blade of mace . 
Let it simmer all day , and then strain it through a fine cloth . 
Some of the liquor in which a calf's head has been cooked , or even a calf's foot , will greatly improve a clear soup . 
The stock should never be allowed to boil as long as the meat and vegetables are in the stock pot . 
Ingredients Clear soup , vegetables . 
Any fresh spring vegetables will do for this soup , but they must all be cooked separately and put into the soup at the last minute . 
It is best made with fresh peas , asparagus tips , and a few strips of tarragon . 
, peas , lobster butter , eggs , asparagus . 
Butter a pie dish and make little quenelles of the forcemeat . 
Hand little croutons fried in lobster butter separately . 
Tuscan Soup Ingredients Stock , eggs . 
Whip up three or four eggs , gradually add good stock to them , and keep on whisking them up until they begin to curdle . 
Keep the soup hot in a bain marie . 
Venetian Soup Ingredients Clear soup , butter , flour , Parmesan , eggs . 
Make a roux by frying two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour , add an ounce of grated cheese and half a cup of good stock . 
Boil these in a little soup , strain off , put them into the tureen and pour a good clear soup over them . 
Roman Soup Ingredients Stock , butter , eggs , salt , crumb of bread , parsley , nutmeg , flour , Parmesan . 
Reduce this and add two tablespoonsful of flour and one of grated Parmesan . 
Form this into little quenelles and boil them in stock for a few minutes put them into a tureen and pour a good clear soup over them . 
Soup alla Nazionale Ingredients Clear soup , savoury custard . 
Make a savoury custard and divide it into three parts , one to be left white , another coloured red with tomato , and the third green with spinach . 
together , then put the custard into a soup tureen and pour a good clear soup over it . 
Soup alla Modanese Ingredients Stock , spinach , butter , salt , eggs , Parmesan , nutmeg , croutons . 
Wash one pound of spinach in five or six waters , then chop it very fine and mix it with three ounces of butter , salt it and warm it up . 
Then let it get cold , pass through a hair sieve , and add two eggs , a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan , and very little nutmeg . 
Crotopo Soup Ingredients Clear soup , veal , ham , eggs , salt , pepper , nutmeg , rolls . 
Pass through a sieve , cut some small French rolls into slices , spread them with the above mixture , and colour them in the oven . 
Then cut them in halves or quarters , put them into a tureen , and just before serving pour a very good clear soup over them . 
Soup all'Imperatrice Ingredients Breast of fowl , eggs , salt , pepper , ground rice , nutmeg , clear stock . 
Pass this through a sieve , form quenelles with it , and pour a good clear soup over them . 
Neapolitan Soup Ingredients Fowl , potato flour , eggs , Bechamel sauce , peas , asparagus , spinach , clear soup . 
Let it simmer , and add boiled peas and asparagus tips . 
If you like to have the fowl macaroni white and green , you can colour half the forcemeat with a spoonful of spinach colouring . 
Serve in a good clear soup . 
, eggs , bread crumbs , clear or brown soup . 
If you have some good risotto left , you can use it up by making it into little balls the size of small nuts . 
Egg and bread crumb and fry them in butter dry them and put them into a soup tureen with hot soup . 
The soup may be either clear or brown . 
Soup alla Canavese Ingredients White stock , butter , onions , carrot , celery , tomato , cauliflower , fat bacon , parsley , sage , Parmesan , salt , pepper . 
Chop up half an onion , half a carrot , half a stick of celery , a small bit of fat bacon , and fry them in two ounces of butter . 
Then cover them with good white stock , boil for a few minutes , pass through a sieve , and add two tablespoonsful of tomato puree . 
Serve with grated Parmesan handed separately . 
Soup alla Maria Pia Ingredients White stock , eggs , butter , peas , white beans , carrot , onion , leeks , celery , cream croutons . 
Pour the soup into a warm tureen , add some boiled green peas , and serve with fried croutons handed separately . 
Ingredients Stock , sorrel , endive , lettuce , chervil , celery , carrot , onion , French roll , Parmesan cheese . 
Then put some slices of toasted French roll into a tureen and pour the above soup over them . 
Serve with grated Parmesan handed separately . 
Ingredients Fowl stock , ground rice , milk , butter . 
Just before serving add an ounce of butter , pass it through a sieve , and mix it with good fowl stock . 
Minestre Minestra is a thick broth , very much like hotch potch , only thicker . 
In Italy it is often served at the beginning of dinner instead of soup it also makes an excellent lunch dish . 
Two or three tablespoonsful of No. will be found a great improvement to any of these minestre . 
A Condiment for Seasoning Minestre , c . 
Ingredients Onions , celery , carrots , butter , salt , stock , tomatoes , mushrooms . 
Cook for a quarter of an hour , and add a little stock occasionally to keep it moist . 
Pass through a sieve , and use for seasoning minestre , macaroni , rice , c . 
It should be added when the dish is nearly cooked . 
Minestra alla Casalinga Ingredients Rice , butter , stock , vegetables . 
All sorts of vegetables will serve for this dish . 
Blanch them in boiling salted water , then drain and fry them in butter . 
Add plenty of good stock , and put them on a slow fire . 
Boil four ounces of rice in stock , and when it is well done add the stock with the vegetables . 
Season with two or three spoonsful of No. , and serve with grated cheese handed separately . 
Minestra of Rice and Turnips Ingredients Rice , turnips , butter , gravy , tomatoes . 
Then drain the slices , put them in a frying pan and fry them slightly in butter . 
Add some good gravy and mashed up tomatoes , and after having cooked this for a few minutes pour it into good boiling stock . 
Add three ounces of well washed rice , and boil for half an hour . 
Minestra loses its flavour if it is boiled too long . 
In Lombardy , however , rice , macaroni , c . 
, are rarely boiled enough for English tastes . 
Minestra alla Capucina Ingredients Rice , anchovies , butter , stock , and onions . 
Scale an anchovy , pound it , and fry it in butter together with a small onion cut across , and four ounces of boiled rice . 
Minestra of Semolina Ingredients Stock , semolina , Parmesan . 
To one quart of soup use three ounces of semolina No. . 
Minestrone alla Milanese Ingredients Rice or macaroni , ham , bacon , stock , all sorts of vegetables . 
Minestrone is a favourite dish in Lombardy when vegetables are plentiful . 
Put in those vegetables first which require most cooking , and do not make the broth too thin . 
Leave the garlic in for a quarter of an hour only . 
Minestra of Rice and Cabbage Ingredients Rice , cabbage , stock , ham , tomato sauce . 
This minestre is improved by adding a little chopped ham and a few spoonsful of tomato sauce . 
Minestra of Rice and Celery Ingredients Celery , rice , stock . 
Cut up a head of celery and remove all the green parts , then boil it in good stock and add two ounces of rice , and boil till it is well cooked . 
Ingredients Eels , butter , flour , stock , bay leaves , salt , pepper , Chablis , a macedoine of vegetables . 
In the meantime boil separately all sorts of vegetables , such as carrots , cauliflower , celery , beans , tomatoes , c . 
Take out the pieces of eel , but keep them hot , whilst you pass the liquor which forms the sauce through a sieve and add the vegetables to this . 
Let them boil a little longer and arrange them in a dish place the pieces of eel on them and cover with the sauce . 
It is most important that the eels should be served very hot . 
Any sort of fish will do as well for this dish . 
Ingredients Fish , flour , butter , Villeroy . 
Any sort of fish will do , turbot , sole , trout , c . 
, dip the fillets into it and fry them in clarified butter . 
Ingredients Lobsters , Velute sauce , Marsala , butter , forcemeat of fish , olives , anchovy butter , button mushrooms , truffles , lemon , crayfish , Italian sauce . 
Two boiled lobsters are necessary . 
and half a glass of Marsala , and boil for a few minutes . 
, and garnish the dish with them , and round the crouton arrange the fillets of lobster with a garnish of slices of truffle . 
Add a dessert spoonful of crayfish butter and a good squeeze of lemon juice to the sauce , and serve . 
Ingredients Cod or hake , carrots , turnips , butter , herbs . 
When they are well cooked add the fish and serve . 
Fillets of lemon soles may also be cooked this way No. . 
Ingredients Mullet , salt , pepper , onions , parsley , oil , water . 
Arrange the fillets on a dish , pour a little of the broth over them , and add the onion and parsley . 
Instead of mullet you can use cod , hake , whiting , lemon sole , c . 
Mullet alla Tolosa Ingredients Mullet , butter , salt , onions , parsley , almonds , anchovies , button mushrooms , tomatoes . 
Cut off the fins and gills of a mullet , put it in a fireproof dish with two ounces of butter and salt . 
If you like , use sole instead of mullet . 
, butter , salt half a lemon , Chablis . 
Put the fish in a fireproof dish with one and a half ounces of butter , salt , a squeeze of lemon juice , and half a glass of Chablis . 
Put it on a very , slow fire and turn the fish when necessary . 
When it is cooked serve in the dish . 
Whiting alla Genovese Ingredients Whiting , butter , pepper , salt , bay leaf claret , parsley , onions , garlic capers , vinegar , Espagnole sauce , mushrooms , anchovies . 
, four capers , one anchovy , all chopped up except the garlic . 
Then add three tablespoonsful of vinegar and reduce the sauce . 
and pass through a sieve , then pour it over the whiting . 
Boil it all again for a few minutes , and before serving garnish with a few button mushrooms cooked separately . 
The remoulade sauce will be much better if made some hours beforehand . 
Ingredients Cod or whiting , salt , onions , parsley , cloves , turnips , marjoram , chervil , milk . 
Boil gently in a big cupful of salted water two onions , one turnip , a pinch of chopped parsley , chervil , and marjoram and four cloves . 
, and add an equal quantity of milk and a little cream , and in this cook the fish and serve with the sauce over it . 
Ingredients Cod , hake , whiting or red mullet , onions , parsley , mint , marjoram , turnips , mushrooms , chervil , cloves , salt , milk , cream , eggs . 
Thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg , and when about to serve pour it over the fish . 
Ingredients Haddock or lemon sole , carrots , anchovies , lemon , pepper , butter , onions , flour , white wine , stock . 
with some slices of carrot which have been masked with a paste made of pounded anchovies , very little chopped lemon peel , salt and pepper . 
Then fry an onion with two cuts across it in butter . 
Ingredients Whiting , onions , parsley , peas , tomatoes , butter , Parmesan , Bechamel sauce . 
, and three of tomato puree , and cook all together on a moderate fire . 
Put some of this mixture on each oyster , and then bake them in a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour . 
At the last minute add a squeeze of lemon juice to each oyster and serve on a folded napkin . 
Ingredients Oysters , parsley , celery , thyme , pepper , garlic , oil , lemon . 
Prepare the oysters as above , but rub each shell with a little garlic . 
Put on each oyster a mixture made of chopped parsley , a little thyme , pepper , and bread crumbs . 
Ingredients Oysters , butter , shallots , truffles , lemon juice , forcemeat of fish . 
Then remove the top shell and arrange the shells with the oysters on a napkin and serve . 
Ingredients Any sort of fish , celery , parsley , carrots , garlic , onion , anchovies , almonds , capers , mushrooms , butter , salt , pepper , flour , tomatoes . 
Chop up a stick of celery , a sprig of parsley , a carrot , an onion . 
, four shredded almonds , three capers and two mushrooms . 
If you like , you may add a little tomato sauce . 
, butter , salt , onion , garlic , carrots , celery , parsley , nutmeg , pepper , spice , mushrooms , tomatoes , flour , anchovies . 
Mix all together , and cook for twenty minutes . 
Ingredients Sole , onion , beetroot , butter , celery , tomato sauce or white wine . 
, and a little celery cut up to this add fillets of sole or haddock , salt and pepper . 
Boil on a moderate on the fish kettle . 
When the beetroot is near y cooked add two tablespoonsful of tomato puree and boil till all is well cooked . 
Instead of the tomato you may use half a glass of Chablis . 
, butter , anchovies , parsley , garlic , capers , eggs . 
Put an ounce of butter and an anchovy in a saucepan together with a sole or mullet . 
A few minutes before taking it off the fire add three capers and stir in the yolk of an egg at the last minute . 
Do not leave the garlic in more than five minutes . 
Ingredients Sole , butter , garlic , pepper , sa t , tomatoes , fennel . 
Turn over the fillets w hen they are sufficiently cooked on one side , take out the garlic and cover the fish with a puree of tomatoes at the last . 
Ingredients Sole , anchovies , butter , bacon , onion , stock , Chablis , salt , nutmeg , parsley , Spanish olives , one bay leaf . 
Fillet a sole and interlard each piece with a bit of anchovy . 
Tie up the fillets and put them in a saute pan with two ounces of butter , a slice of bacon or ham , and a few small slices of onion . 
Cover half over with good stock and a glass of Chablis , and add salt , a pinch of nutmeg , a bunch of parsley , and a bay leaf . 
Cover with buttered paper , and cook on a slow fire for about an hour . 
Drain the fish , pass the liquor through a sieve , reduce it to the consistency of a thick sauce , and pour it over the fish . 
Garnish each fillet with a Spanish olive stuffed with anchovy . 
Ingredients Sole , Parmesan , butter , cream , cayenne . 
Fillet a sole and wipe each piece with a clean cloth , then place them in a fireproof dish , and put a small piece of butter on each fillet . 
Then make a good white sauce , and mix it with two tablespoonsful of grated Parmesan and half a gill of cream . 
Cover the fish well with the sauce , and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes . 
Lemon soles may be used in any of the above named dishes . 
Ingredients Salmon , Genoese sauce , butter , lemon . 
Ingredients Salmon , forcemeat of fish , truffles , butter , Madeira , croutons of bread , crayfish tails , anchovy butter . 
, and half a teaspoonful of anchovy butter . 
Glaze the fillets and serve . 
Ingredients Salmon , forcemeat of fish , vegetables , butter , Bechamel , and Espagnole sauce . 
, and put on each a layer of white forcemeat of fish . 
, stock , and butter . 
Around this place the fillets of fish , leaving the centre with the peas uncovered . 
Pour some rich Espagnole sauce round the fillets and serve . 
Boil a piece of salmon , and when cold cut it into fillets and marinate them for two hours in oil , lemon juice , salt , thyme pepper , and nutmeg . 
Then make a good mayonnaise and add to it some lobster butter mixed with a little dissolved gelatine and Velute sauce . 
Wipe the fillets and arrange them in a circle on a dish , and pour the mayonnaise over them . 
Ingredients Salmon , eggs , mayonnaise , parsley , flour . 
Arrange in a circle on the dish , garnish with fried parsley , and serve with Dutch or mayonnaise sauce . 
Any fillets of fish may be cooked in this manner . 
mushrooms , anchovy butter , lemon . 
, salt , pepper , very little nutmeg , a cup of stock , and a glass of Chablis . 
Cook for half an hour over a hot fire , turn the salmon occasionally , and if it gets dry , add a cup of Espagnole sauce . 
Let it boil until sufficiently cooked , and then put it on a dish . 
Into the sauce put four mushrooms cooked in white sauce , half a teaspoonful of anchovy butter and a little lemon juice . 
Pour the sauce over the salmon and serve . 
Fillets of Salmon in Papiliotte Ingredients Salmon , oil , lemon juice , salt , pepper , nutmeg , herbs . 
Cut a piece of salmon into fillets , marinate them in oil , lemon juice , salt , pepper , nutmeg , and herbs for two hours . 
Wipe and put them into paper souffle cases with a little oil , butter , and herbs . 
and a dessert spoonful of New Century sauce , warmed up in a bain marie . 
Can be obtained at Messrs Lazenby's , Wigmoree Street , W. Beef , Mutton , Veal , Lamb , C. No. . 
Ingredients Fillet of beef or rump steak , bacon , olive oil , salt , nutmeg , anchovies , herbs , stock , garlic . 
When it is nicely browned add an anchovy minced and mixed with chopped herbs , and a small clove of garlic with one cut across it . 
Leave the garlic in for five minutes only . 
Ingredients Beef , mutton , or veal , onions , rosemary , Burgundy , tomatoes , stock , potatoes , butter , garlic . 
Cover up the stewpan and cook gently , stir occasionally , and add some stock if the stew gets too dry . 
If you like to add potatoes , cut them up , put them in the stewpan an hour before serving , and cook them with the meat . 
A clove of garlic with one cut may be added for five minutes . 
Ingredients Rump steak , ham , salt , pepper , spice , fat bacon , onion , stock , white wine . 
You may add a clove of garlic for ten minutes . 
Ingredients Beef steak , butter , onions , stock , sausage meat . 
, and a dessert spoonful of New Century sauce . 
Ingredients Rump steak , bacon , ham , salt , pepper , cinnamon , cloves , butter , onions , Burgundy . 
Put in sufficient stock to cover the steak , add a glass of Burgundy , and stew gently until it is cooked . 
Ingredients Beef , salt , larding bacon , Burgundy , vinegar , spices , herbs , flour . 
The thin end of a sirloin is excellent cooked this way . 
Ingredients Beef , beetroot , salt . 
Cut up three raw beetroots put them into an earthen ware pot and cover them with water . 
The take out the pieces of beetroot , skim off all the froth , and into the fermented liquor put a good piece of tender rump steak or fillet with some salt . 
Braize for four hours and serve . 
Ingredients Beef , oil , salt , pepper , vinegar , parsley , capers , mushrooms , olives , vegetables . 
, which has been previously marinated for two days in oil , salt , pepper , vinegar , and chopped parsley . 
When cold press and glaze it , garnish it with capers , mushrooms preserved in vinegar or gherkins , olives , and any kind of vegetables marinated like the beef . 
Ingredients Fillet of beef , oil , salt , flour , pistacchio nuts , gravy . 
Cut a piece of tender beef into little fillets , and put a them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of olive oil and salt . 
After they have cooked for a few minutes , powder them with flour , and strew over each fillet some chopped pistacchio nuts . 
Add a few spoonsful of very good boiling gravy , and cook for another half hour . 
Ingredients Rump steak , butter , rice , truffles , tongue , stock , mushrooms . 
Slightly stew a bit of rump steak with bits of tongue and mushrooms let it get cold , and cut it into scallops . 
, then a layer of the scallops of beef , and then another layer of risotto . 
Heat in a bain marie , and turn out of the pie dish , and serve with a very good sauce poured round it . 
Ingredients Tendons of veal , fowl forcemeat , truffles , risotto , a cock s comb , tongue . 
Tendons of veal are that part of the breast which lies near the ribs , and forms an opaque gristly substance . 
Partly braize a fine bit of this joint , and press it between two plates till cold . 
Cut it up into fillets , and on each spread a thin layer of fowl forcemeat , and decorate with slices of truffle . 
Put the fillets into a stewpan , cover them with very good stock , and boil till the forcemeat and truffles are quite cooked . 
Place the tendons of veal round the dish . 
Add a good Espagnole sauce and serve . 
If you like , leave out the risotto and serve the veal with Espagnole sauce mixed with cooked peas and chopped truffle . 
Ingredients Veal , salt , pepper , butter , bacon , carrots , flour , Chablis , water , lemon . 
Cut a bit of veal steak into pieces the size of small cutlets , salt and pepper them , and put them in a wide low stewpan . 
Add two ounces of butter , a cut up carrot , and some bits of bacon also cut up . 
Put it back on the fire and add an ounce of butter and a good squeeze of lemon , and when hot pour it over the cutlets . 
, forcemeat , truffles , mushrooms , tongue , parsley , pasta marinate . 
Over this put a thin layer of pasta marinate , and fry the cutlets on a slow fire . 
Ingredients Breast of veal , butter , onions , sugar , stock , red wine , mushrooms , bacon , salt , flour , bay leaf . 
Ingredients Veal , butter , Marsala , stock , lemon , bacon . 
Cut a tender bit of veal steak into small fillets , cut off all the fat and stringy parts , flour them and fry them in butter . 
When they are slightly browned add a glass of Marsala and a teacup of good stock , and fry on a very hot fire , so that the fillets may remain tender . 
Take them off the fire , put a little roll of fried bacon on each , add a squeeze of lemon juice , and serve . 
Ingredients Veal steak , butter , bread , eggs , pistacchio nuts , spice , parsley . 
Cut some slices of veal steak very thin as for veal olives , and spread them out in a well buttered stewpan . 
Thicken the sauce with a dessert spoonful of flour and butter fried together . 
Ingredients Ribs of veal , butter , eggs , Parmesan , bread crumbs , parsley . 
A dessert spoonful of New Century sauce mixed with quarter of a pint of good thick stock makes a good sauce . 
Ingredients Mutton cutlets , butter , olives , mushrooms , cucumbers . 
Trim as many cutlets as you require , and marinate them in vinegar , herbs , and spice for two hours . 
with a teaspoonful of vinegar and six bruised pepper corns over them . 
Arrange them on a dish , putting between each cutlet a crouton of fried bread , and garnish with olives stuffed with chopped mushrooms and with slices of fried cucumber . 
Ingredients Breast of mutton , veal , forcemeat , eggs , herbs , spice , Parmesan . 
, or one dessert spoonful of New Century sauce in a quarter pint of good stock or gravy . 
Ingredients Tendons of lamb , eggs , bread crumbs , truffles , butter , stock , Villeroy sauce . 
egg and bread crumb , and saute them in butter . 
When about to serve , put them in a dish with very good clear gravy . 
A teaspoonful of chopped mint and a tablespoonful of chopped truffles mixed with the bread crumbs will be a great improvement . 
Ingredients Tendons of lamb , butter , parsley , onions , stock . 
Fry the tendons of lamb in butter together with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and an onion . 
Serve with good gravy No. . 
Ingredients Lamb cutlets , butter , stock , cocks' combs , fowl's liver , mushrooms . 
Fry as many lamb cutlets as you require very sharply in butter , drain off the butter and replace it with some very good stock or gravy . 
Tongue , Sweetbread , Calf's Head , Liver , Sucking Pig , C. No. . 
Timballo alla Romana Ingredients Cold fowl , game , or sweetbread , butter , lard , flour , Parmesan , truffles , macaroni , onions , cream . 
Make a light paste of two ounces of butter , two of lard , and half a pound of flour , and put it in the larder for two hours . 
Put these ingredients in alternately , and after each layer add enough cream to moisten . 
Fill the mould quite full , then roll out a thin paste for the top and press it well together at the edges to keep the cream from boiling out . 
Bake it in a moderate oven for an hour and a half , turn it out of the mould , and serve with a rich brown sauce . 
Decorate the top with bits of red tongue and truffles cut into shapes or with a little chopped pistacchio nut . 
Timballo alla Lombarda Ingredients Macaroni , fowl or game , eggs , stock , Velute sauce , tongue , butter , truffles . 
Butter a smooth mould , then boil some macaroni , but take care that it is in long pieces . 
When the mould is full , put on another layer of forcemeat , steam for an hour , then turn out and serve with a very good brown sauce . 
Ingredients Tongue , glaze , bread , spinach , white grapes , port . 
Soak a smoked tongue in fresh water for forty eight hours , then boil it till it is tender . 
Peel off the skin , cut the tongue in rather thick slices , and glaze them . 
Prepare an oval border of fried bread , cover it with spinach about two inches thick , and on this arrange the slices of tongue . 
Fill in the centre of the dish with white grapes cooked in port or muscat . 
Ingredients Ox tongue , salt , pepper , nutmeg , parsley , bacon , veal , carrots , onions , thyme , bay leaves , cloves , stock . 
Pour some good stock over it and let it simmer gently until it is cooked . 
Put the tongue on a dish and garnish it with slices of fried cucumber . 
Boil the cucumber for five minutes before you fry it , to take away the bitter taste . 
Serve the tongue with a sauce piquante , made with one dessert spoonful of New Century sauce to a quarter pint of good Espangole sauce . 
Ingredients Sheep's tongues , bacon , beef , onions , herbs , spice , eggs , butter , flour . 
Let them get cold , flour them and mask them with egg beaten up and fry quickly in butter . 
Ingredients Calves' tongues , salt , butter , stock , water , glaze , potatoes , ham , truffles , sauce piquante . 
Stew them gently till tender , take them out , skin and braize them in butter and good stock for half an hour . 
Then pour off the gravy , cover the pig with well buttered paper , and finish cooking it in the oven . 
Garnish the top with vegetables and truffles cut into shapes , slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley . 
Serve with a good sauce piquante . 
Do not leave the garlic in for more than ten minutes . 
Bone a sucking pig all except its feet , but be careful not to cut the skin on its back . 
Into this put the pig with a bottle of white wine and sufficient stock to cover it , and cook on a slow fire for three hours . 
Then take it out , and when cold take off the pudding cloth . 
Pass the liquor through a hair sieve , and , if necessary , add some stock reduce and clarify it . 
Decorate the dish with this jelly and serve cold . 
Ateletti alla Sarda Ingredients Veal or fowl , ox palates , stock , tongue , truffles , butter , mushrooms , sweetbread . 
Cut the ox palates also into circular pieces the same size as the bits of forcemeat , then thinner circles of cooked tongue and truffles . 
String these pieces alternately on small silver skewers . 
, and add the cuttings of the truffles , mushroom trimmings , bits of sweetbread , and a squeeze of lemon juice . 
with it , and fry them quickly in butter . 
Fry a large oval crouton of bread , scoop out the centre and fill it with fried slices of cucumber and truffles boiled in a little Chablis . 
Stick the skewers into the crouton and pour the sauce round it . 
For a maigre dish use fillets of fish , truffles , mushrooms , and Bechamel sauce . 
The cucumber should be boiled for five minutes before it is fried . 
Ateletti alla Genovese Ingredients Veal , sweetbread , calf's brains , ox palates , mushrooms , fonds d'artichauds , cocks' combs , eggs , Parmesan , bread crumbs . 
Fry them all in butter except the palates , but be careful to put the veal in first , as it requires longer cooking the brains should go in last . 
cut them all into pieces of equal size , either round or square , but keep the ingredients separate , and string them alternately on silver skewers , as in the last recipe . 
Mix all this well together and mask the atelets with it egg and bread crumb them and fry in butter . 
When they are a good colour , serve with fried parsley . 
Ingredients Calf's head , veal , sweetbread , truffles , mushrooms , pistacchio nuts , eggs , herbs , spice , stock , bacon , ham . 
Then stitch it up and braize it in good stock , with some slices of bacon , ham , and a bunch of herbs . 
Serve with brain sauce mixed with cream . 
Ingredients Calf's head , calf's liver , bacon , suet , truffles , almonds , olives , calf's brains , capers , spice , coriander seeds , herbs , ham , stock . 
Roll up the head , tie it up and put it into a stewpan with some bits of bacon , ham , and very good stock , and stew it slowly . 
Serve with Neapolitan sauce , or with tomato sauce piquante . 
Ingredients Calf's head , calf's brains , cream , eggs , truffles , cinnamon , stock , butter , Parmesan . 
Ingredients Calf's head , sweetbread , fowl's liver , anchovies , herbs , capers , garlic , bacon , ham , Malmsey or Muscat . 
, half a cup of very good white stock , some bits of ham and bacon , and a clove of garlic with two cuts . 
Cook it gently for four hours and serve it with its own sauce . 
Do not leave the garlic in longer than ten minutes . 
Ingredients Calf's head , eggs , Parmesan , ham , pepper , butter , croutons . 
Fry in butter , and garnish with fried parsley and fried croutons . 
and a dessert spoonful of New Century sauce . 
Ingredients Calves' or pigs' feet , butter , leeks or small onions , parsley , salt , pepper , stock , tomatoes , eggs , cheese , cinnamon . 
Mix all well together and serve very hot . 
Bodini Marinati Ingredients Veal forcemeat , truffles , sweetbread , mushrooms , herbs , flour , pasta marinate , tongue , butter . 
Mix this well and form it into little balls about the size of a pigeon's egg , flour them and mask them all over with pasta marinate . 
These bodini may be made with various ingredients they will be most delicate with a forcemeat of fowl and bits of brain mixed with herbs , truffle , cooked ham , or tongue . 
, either cooked or raw , and marinated in lemon , salt , pepper , oil , nutmeg , and parsley . 
Ingredients Sweetbread , bread crumbs , Parmesan , butter . 
When they are cooked , take off the paper , and serve with a good sauce in a sauce boat . 
Ingredients Sweetbread , butter , herbs , salt , pepper , bread crumbs , Parmesan , lemons , gravy , tomatoes . 
Blanch a pound of sweetbread cuttings , mix it with two ounces of melted butter , chopped herbs , salt , and pepper , and put it into paper souffle cases . 
, truffles , quenelles of fowl , Espagnole sauce , white sauce . 
Blanch as many sweetbreads as you require , cut them into quarters and saute them in butter with a small onion cut up , salt , and a bunch of herbs . 
Then pour over them two cups of white sauce and cook gently for twenty minutes take out the sweetbreads and put them in a stewpan . 
, put it in a moderate oven , and when it is warm turn it out on a dish . 
Place the sweetbreads on the risotto and fill in the centre with quenelles of fowl and Espagnole sauce . 
Ingredients Sweetbreads , larding , bacon , stock , a macedoine of vegetables . 
Blanch two sweetbreads , lard them , and cook them very slowly in good stock . 
Skim the stock and reduce it to a glaze to cover the sweetbreads . 
Then cut them into three or four pieces and arrange them round a dish , but see that the larding is well glazed over . 
In the centre of the dish place a piece of bread in the shape of a cup and fill this with a macedoine of vegetables . 
Ingredients Sweetbread , fresh button mushrooms , flour , bread crumbs , salt , pepper , parsley , butter , lemons . 
Peel some button mushrooms and cut them in halves . 
Hand cut lemons with this dish . 
Ingredients Calf's brains , stock , butter , parsley , lemon . 
Ingredients Calf s brains , eggs , bread crumbs , butter . 
Scald a calf's brain and let it get cold . 
Ingredients Calf's brains , eggs , flour , mushrooms , Velute sauce . 
, mixed with chopped cooked mushrooms flour them over and dip them into the yolk of an egg , and fry as quickly as possible . 
, butter , ham , flour , puff pastry . 
Serve with bits of fried ham and little diamond shaped pieces of puff pastry . 
Ingredients Calf's brains , stock , cream , eggs , spice , Parmesan , butter . 
Fry the balls in butter , and serve as hot as possible . 
You may mask and cook the calf's brain without cutting it up , if you prefer it so . 
Ingredients Calf's brains , stock , Bechamel sauce , eggs , butter , lemon , forcemeat of fowl , flour . 
Boil a calf's or sheep's brain in good stock , wipe it well , and cut it up . 
, and add to it the yolks of three eggs , an ounce of butter , and the juice of a lemon . 
When it boils throw in the cut up brain let it cool , then take out the brain and form it into little balls about the size of a small walnut . 
Dip them into a pasta marinate , and fry them a golden brown . 
Ingredients Lamb's sweetbread , butter , onions , stock , Chablis , salt , lemon , herbs , cocks' combs , fowls' livers . 
reduce the sauce , and thicken it with a tablespoonful of butter and flour fried together . 
, and put the sweetbread , c . 
, together with the sauce in the centre . 
Ingredients Lamb's fry , ham , garlic , larding bacon , spice , herbs , butter , flour , stock . 
The lamb's fry should be nearly all sweetbread , and very little liver . 
Lard each piece with bacon and ham , and roll it in chopped herbs and a pinch of pounded spice . 
Cook until the fry is well glazed over , and serve with Tarragon sauce . 
Do not leave the garlic in longer than ten minutes . 
Fritto Misto alla Villeroy Ingredients Cocks' combs , calf's brains , sweetbread , stock , truffles , mushrooms , Villeroy , eggs , bread crumbs . 
Cook some big cocks' combs , bits of calf s brains , and sweetbread in good stock , then drain them and marinate them slightly in lemon juice and herbs . 
, and add to it cuttings of sweetbread , brains , truffles , mushrooms , c . 
When it is cold , mask the cocks' combs and other ingredients with it , egg and bread crumb them , and fry them a golden brown . 
Fritto Misto alla Piemontese Ingredients Sweetbread , calf s brains , ox palate , flour , eggs , Chablis , salt , herbs butter . 
Make a thin paste with a tablespoonful of flour , the yolks of two eggs , two Spoonsful of Chablis , and a little salt . 
Mix this up well , and if it is too thick add a little water . 
Beat up the whites of the two eggs into a snow . 
The ox palates should be boiled for at least six hours before you use them in this dish . 
Ingredients Fowls' or turkeys' livers , flour , butter , parsley , onions , salt , pepper , stock , Chablis . 
You can also cook the livers simply in good meat gravy , but in this case they should not be floured . 
, or Risotto , or Polenta . 
Ingredients Fowls' livers , eggs , cheese , butter , cream , cayenne pepper . 
Braize two fowls' livers in butter , then pound them up , and mix with a little cream , a tablespoonful of grated cheese and a dust of cayenne . 
Stir it over the fire till thick and then spread it on the hot toast . 
This makes a good savoury . 
Croutons alla Principesca Ingredients Croutons , tongue , sweetbread , truffles , fowl or game , Velute sauce , stock , eggs , butter . 
Fry a bit of bread in butter till it is a light brown colour , then cut it into heart shaped pieces . 
, and two or three of reduced gravy . 
Then glaze them with reduced stock and serve hot . 
For a maigre dish use fish for the ragout and forcemeat . 
Croutons alla Romana Ingredients Bread , fowl forcemeat , tongue , truffles , herbs , cream , stock , butter , flour , eggs . 
For a maigre dish use forcemeat of fish or lobster , and more cream instead of stock . 
Fowl , Duck , Game , Hare , Rabbit , c . 
Ingredients Fowl , Bechamel , stock , semolina flour , potatoes , salt , eggs , butter , smoked tongue or ham . 
Prepare a puree of fowl or turkey and a small quantity of grated tongue or ham , and whilst you are pounding the meat add some good gravy or stock . 
Pour the whole into a buttered souffle case , and half an hour before serving put it in a moderate oven and serve hot . 
You can use game instead of fowl , and serve in little souffle cases . 
Ingredients Fowl , butter , vegetables , rice or macaroni , peppercorns , stock , ham , tomatoes , bay leaves , onions , cloves , Liebig . 
Roll up a fowl in buttered paper and put it in the oven in a fireproof dish with all kinds of vegetables and a few peppercorns . 
Sauce Two pounds tomatoes , one big cup of good stock , a quarter pound of chopped ham , three bay leaves , one onion stuck with cloves , one teaspoonful of Liebig . 
Simmer an hour and a half . 
Ingredients Fowl , onions , celery , salt , parsley , carrots , butter , stock , olives , tomatoes . 
Cut up half an onion , a stick of celery , a sprig of parsley , a carrot , and cook them all in a quarter pound of butter . 
Into this put a fowl cut up and let it act brown all over , turn when necessary and then baste it with boiling stock . 
Ingredients Fowl , butter , flour , stock , bacon , ham , mushrooms , onions , cloves , eggs , cream , lemons . 
, an onion stuck with three cloves . 
When this is cooked skim off the grease , pass the sauce through a sieve , and add the yolks of two eggs mixed with two tablespoonsful of cream . 
Lastly , add a squeeze of lemon juice to the sauce and pour it over the fowl . 
Ingredients The same as No. and tomatoes . 
Cook the fowl exactly as above , but add either a puree of tomatoes or tomato sauce . 
Ingredients Fowl , butter , parsley , lemon , small onions , bread crumbs . 
Ingredients Fowl , butter , fat bacon , ham , mushrooms , truffles , herbs , spice , gravy . 
Cut up a fowl and cook it in a fricassee of butter , bacon , ham , herbs , mushrooms , truffles , spice , and good gravy or stock . 
Serve in its own gravy . 
Ingredients Fowl , bacon , ham , bay leaf , spice , garlic , Burgundy , tomatoes . 
Only leave the garlic in for five minutes . 
When cooked serve with tomato sauce . 
Ingredients Capon , veal forcemeat , fat bacon , stock , rice , truffles , mushrooms , cocks' combs , kidneys or fowls' liver , supreme sauce , milk , Chablis . 
In the meantime boil four ounces of rice in milk till quite stiff , mix in some chopped truffles , and make ten little timbales of it . 
over it round the dish place the timbales of rice , and between each put a whole truffle cooked in white wine . 
Serve a sauce supreme in a sauce bowl . 
Ingredients Turkey , sausage meat , prunes , chestnuts , a pear , butter , Marsala , salt , rosemary , bacon , carrot , onion , turnip , garlic . 
Only leave the garlic in ten minutes . 
Ingredients A turkey poult , ham , mace , bay leaves , lemons , water , salt , onions , parsley , celery , carrots , Chablis . 
It is also good cold with aspic jelly . 
Ingredients Pheasant , macaroni , gravy , butter , Parmesan , tomatoes . 
Serve with Neapolitan sauce in a sauce bowl . 
Ingredients Pheasant , butter , truffles , larding bacon , Madeira . 
Make a mixture of three tablespoonsful of chopped truffles , three ounces of butter and a little salt , and with this stuff a pheasant . 
Then cover it with slices of fat bacon and keep it in a cool place till next day . 
A few hours before serving , roast the pheasant and baste it well with melted butter and a wine glass of Madeira or Marsala . 
When the pheasant is cooked , place it on the crouton and garnish it with slices of truffle which have been previously cooked in Madeira , and serve with a Perigord sauce . 
Ingredients Wild duck , butter , fowls' livers , Marsala , gravy , turnips , carrots , parsley , mushrooms . 
Cut a wild duck into quarters and put it into a stewpan with two fowls' livers cut up and fried in butter . 
Skim the sauce , pass it through a sieve and add a pinch of sugar . 
Put the pieces of wild duck in an entree dish , add the vegetables , c . 
, pour the sauce over and serve . 
Ingredients Partridges , cauliflower , bacon , sausage , fowls' livers , carrots , onions herbs , stock , gravy , butter , Madeira . 
Cut a cauliflower into quarters , blanch for a few minutes , drain , and put it into a saucepan with some bits of bacon . 
In the meantime cut a sausage in thin slices and line a mould with it . 
Five minutes before serving turn the mould over on a plate , but do not take it off , so as to let all the grease drain off . 
Cut up the fowls' and partridges' livers , make them into scallops and glaze them . 
reduced , and add a glass of Madeira or Marsala , and a glass of essence of game to it . 
This is an excellent way of cooking an old partridge or pheasant . 
Ingredients Snipe , ham , larding bacon , herbs , Marsala , croutons , truffles , cocks' combs , mushrooms , sweetbread , tongue . 
Truss fourteen snipe and cook them in a mirepoix made with plenty of ham , fat bacon , herbs , and a wine glass of Marsala . 
When they are cooked pour off the sauce , skim off the grease and reduce it . 
and add it to the first sauce . 
Cut twelve croutons of bread just large enough to hold a snipe each , and fry them in butter . 
Put them in a moderate oven for a few minutes , arrange them on a dish , and pour some of their own sauce over them . 
Garnish the spaces between the croutons with white cocks' combs , mushrooms , and truffles . 
The truffles should be scooped out and filled with a little stuffing of sweetbread , tongue , and truffles mixed with a little of the sauce of the snipe . 
Serve the rest of the sauce in a sauce boat . 
Ingredients Pigeons , butter , truffles , herbs , fowls' livers , sweetbread , salt , flour , stock , Burgundy . 
Let them brown a little , then add a dessert spoonful of flour mixed with stock , and half a glass of Burgundy , and stew gently for half an hour . 
Ingredients Pigeons , sweetbread , parsley , onions , carrots , salt , pepper , bacon , stock , Chablis , fowls' livers , and gizzards . 
Cut up a sweetbread , a fowl's liver and gizzard , an onion , a sprig of parsley , and add salt and pepper . 
When cooked pass the sauce through a sieve , skim it , add a little more sauce , and pour it over the pigeons . 
Ingredients Hare , butter , onions , garlic , marjoram , celery , ham , salt , Chablis , stock , mushrooms , spice , tomatoes . 
Fry these slightly , put the hare cut up into the same stewpan , and let it get brown . 
Keep the cover on the stewpan , but stir the stew occasionally . 
Ingredients Hare , vinegar butter , onion , ham , stock salt , sugar , chocolate , almonds , raisins . 
Cut up a hare and wash the pieces in vinegar , then cook them in butter , chopped onion , some bits of ham stock and a little salt . 
Mix all well together and cook for a few minutes more . 
This is a favourite Roman dish . 
Ingredients Rabbit , flour butter , stock , Chablis , parsley onion , spice , mushrooms . 
Cut up a rabbit , wipe the pieces , flour them over , and fry them in butter until they are coloured all over . 
Then pour a glass of Chablis over them , add some chopped parsley , half an onion , three mushrooms , salt , and a cup of good stock . 
Cover the stewpan and cook on a moderate fire for about three quarters of an hour . 
Should the stew act too dry , add a spoonful of stock occasionally . 
Ingredients Rabbit , pig's fry , butter , salt , pepper , fennel , bay leaf , onions . 
, salt , pepper , fennel , an onion , all chopped up , and a bay leaf . 
With this stuff a rabbit we and braize it for half an hour , then roast it before a brisk fire and baste it well with good gravy . 
If you like , put in a clove of garlic with one cut whilst it is being braized , but only leave it in for five minutes . 
A fowl may be cooked in this way . 
Ingredients Rabbit , butter , flour , celery , parsley , onion , carrot , mushrooms , cloves , spices , Burgundy , stock , capers , anchovies . 
gravy , lemon , Parmesan . 
Pour a little supreme sauce over them , and at the last add a little gravy , one ounce of fresh butter , and a squeeze of lemon juice . 
Ingredients Brussels sprouts , butter , pepper , stock , Bechamel sauce , Parmesan , croutons . 
Take off the outside leaves of half a pound of Brussels sprouts , wash and boil them in salted water . 
, and serve with croutons fried in butter . 
Ingredients Beetroot , white sauce , Parmesan , Cheddar . 
Boil a beetroot till it is quite tender , peel it , cut into slices , put it in a fireproof dish , and cover it with a thick white sauce . 
Strew a little grated Parmesan and Cheddar over it . 
Put it in the oven for a few minutes , and serve very hot in the dish . 
Ingredients Beans , stock , a bunch of herbs , Bechamel sauce . 
Boil one pound of broad beans in salt and water , skin and cook them in a saucepan with a quarter pint of reduced stock and a hunch of herbs . 
Drain them , take out the herbs , and season with two glasses of Bechamel sauce . 
Ingredients Cabbage or greens , anchovies , salt , butter , parsley , gravy , Parmesan . 
Boil two cabbages in a good deal of water , and cut them into quarters . 
Ingredients Cauliflower , butter , onions , parsley , lemon , Espagnole sauce . 
Blanch a cauliflower and boil it , but not too much . 
over it , and add a squeeze of lemon juice . 
Ingredients Cauliflower or broccoli , gravy , lemon , salt , eggs , butter . 
Cauliflower alla Parmigiana Ingredients Cauliflower , butter , Parmesan , Cheddar , Espagnole , stock . 
Boil a cauliflower in salted water , then sautez it in butter , but be careful not to cook it too much . 
, and put it in the oven for ten minutes . 
Cavoli Fiori Ripieni Ingredients Cauliflower , butter , stock , forcemeat of fowl , tongue , truffles , mushrooms , parsley , Espagnole , eggs . 
Break up a cauliflower into separate little bunches , blanch them , and put them in butter , and a quarter pint of reduced stock . 
Make a forcemeat of fowl , add bits of tongue , truffles , mushrooms , and parsley , all cut up small and mixed with butter . 
With this mask the pieces of cauliflower , egg and breadcrumb them , fry like croquettes , and serve with a good Espagnole sauce . 
Ingredients Celery , stock , ham , salt , pepper , Cheddar , Parmesan , butter , gravy . 
Cut all the green off a head of celery , trim the rest . 
Cut it into pieces about four inches long , blanch and braize them in good stock , ham , salt , and pepper . 
Ingredients Same as No. , eggs , bread crumbs , tomatoes . 
Prepare a head of celery as above , and cut it up into equal pieces . 
Blanch and braize as above , and when cold egg and breadcrumb and sautez in butter . 
Ingredients Cucumber , butter , cheese , gravy , salt , cayenne . 
Ingredients Cucumber , cream , salt , Bechamel sauce , butter , Parmesan , cayenne pepper . 
Care should be taken not to cook the cucumber too long , or it will break in pieces and spoil the look of the dish No. . 
Ingredients Carrots , stock , butter , sausage , pepper . 
Ingredients Young carrots , peas , cream , salt . 
, then put them together in a stewpan with three or four tablespoonsful of cream , and cook till quite tender . 
Ingredients Cabbage , butter , salt , leeks or shallots , sardines , cheese . 
Ingredients Lettuce , Parmesan , bacon , stock , butter , croutons of bread , gravy . 
Take off the outside leaves of a lettuce , blanch and drain them well . 
Then drain off the stock and roll up each leaf with the bacon , c . 
, put them on croutons of fried bread and pour some good thick gravy over them . 
Ingredients Lettuce , forcemeat of fowl or veal , ham , Espagnole sauce . 
Ingredients Mushrooms , bread , stock , garlic , parsley , salt , Parmesan , butter , eggs , cream . 
Choose a dozen good fresh mushrooms , take off the stalks and put the tops into a saucepan with a little butter . 
See that they lie bottom upwards . 
Then cut up and mix together half the stalks of the mushrooms , a little bread crumb soaked in gravy , the merest scrap of garlic and a little chopped parsley . 
Put this into a separate saucepan and add to it two eggs , half a gill of cream , salt , and two tablespoonsful of grated Parmesan . 
Mix well so as to get a smootl paste and fill in the cavities of the mushrooms with it . 
Then add a little more butter , strew some bread crumbs over each mushroom , and cook in the oven for ten to fifteen minutes . 
Ingredients Cauliflower , carrots , celery , spinach , butter , cream , pepper , Parmesan . 
Then put them in layers in a buttered china mould , and between each layer add a little cream , pepper , and a little grated Parmesan and Cheddar . 
Fill the mould in this manner , and put it in the oven for half an hour , so that the vegetables may cook without adhering to the mould . 
Ingredients Potatoes , butter , Parmesan , white stock , cream , pepper , salt . 
, and on each layer pour a little melted butter , a little good white stock and a dust of grated Parmesan . 
Reduce a pint and a half of cream to half its quantity , add a little pepper , and pour it over the potatoes . 
Put the dish in the oven for twenty minutes . 
Serve as hot as possible . 
Ingredients Potatoes , white stock , salt , butter , peas , asparagus , sprouts , beans , c . 
Then fill in the cavities with a macedoine of cooked vegetables and add a little cream to each . 
Ingredients Potatoes , butter , salt , tomatoes , lemon , stock . 
Arrange them on a dish , pour some good tomato sauce over them , and add a little butter and a squeeze of lemon juice . 
Ingredients Spinach , butter , Velute sauce , salt , pepper , flour , stock . 
Ingredients New potatoes , oil , white vinegar , onions , parsley , tarragon , chervil , celery , cream , salt , pepper , tarragon vinegar , watercress , cucumber , truffles . 
Ingredients Peas , bean onions , potatoes , tarragon , chives , parsley , tomatoes , anchovies , oil , vinegar , ham . 
Mix a tablespoonful of chopped parsley , a teaspoonful of chopped onion , a teaspoonful of tarragon and chopped chives with half a gill of oil and half a gill of vinegar . 
Then add two or three anchovies in oil , and on the top place three or four ripe tomatoes cut in slices . 
A little cooked smoked ham cut in dice added to this salad is a great improvement . 
Ingredients Tomatoes , mayonnaise , shallot , horseradish , gherkin , anchovies , fish , cucumber , lettuce , chervil , tarragon , eggs . 
With this mixture stuff some ripe tomatoes . 
, put a layer of slices of cucumber in the salad , place the tomatoes on the top of these , and decorate them with hard boiled eggs passed through a wire sieve . 
Ingredients Truffles , fowl forcemeat , champagne . 
Allow one truffle for each person , scoop out the inside , chop it up fine and mix with a good forcemeat of fowl . 
With this fill up the truffles , place a thin layer of truffle on the top of each , and cook them in champagne in a stewpan for about half an hour . 
Serve in paper souffle cases . 
Macaroni , Rice , Polenta , and Other Italian Pastes Italian pastes of the best quality can be obtained at Cosenza's , Wigmore Street , NW . 
For the following dishes , tagliarelle and spaghetti are recommended . 
Macaroni with Tomatoes Ingredients Macaroni , tomatoes , butter , onion , basil , pepper , salt . 
Fry half an onion slightly in butter , and as soon as it is coloured add a puree of two big cooked tomatoes . 
This dish may be made with vermicelli , spaghetti , or any other Italian paste . 
Macaroni alla Casalinga Ingredients Macaroni , butter , stock , cheese , water , salt , nutmeg . 
Cut up a quarter pound of macaroni in small pieces and put it in boiling salted water . 
Stir over a brisk fire , and serve very hot . 
Macaroni al Sughillo Ingredients Macaroni , stock , tomatoes , sausage , cheese . 
Sprinkle with grated Parmesan and Cheddar , and cook for about twenty minutes . 
Before serving pass the salamander over the top to brown the macaroni . 
Macaroni alla Livornese Ingredients Macaroni , mushrooms , tomatoes , Parmesan , butter , pepper , salt , milk . 
Boil about four ounces of macaroni , and stew four or five mushrooms in milk with pepper and salt . 
Put a layer of the macaroni in a buttered fireproof dish , then a layer of tomato puree , then a layer of the mushrooms and another layer of macaroni . 
Dust it all over with grated Parmesan and Cheddar , put it in the oven for half an hour , and serve very hot . 
Tagliarelle and Lobster Ingredients Tagliarelle , lobster , cheese , butter . 
Boil half a pound of tagliarelle , and cut up a quarter of a pound of lobster . 
Strew grated cheese over the top , put it in the oven for twenty minutes , and brown the top with a salamander . 
Polenta Polenta is made of ground Indian corn , and may be used either as a separate dish or as a garnish for roast meat , pigeons , fowl , c . 
It is made like porridge gradually drop the meal with one hand into boiling stock or water , and stir continually with a wooden spoon with the other hand . 
In about a quarter of an hour it will be quite thick and smooth , then add a little butter and grated Parmesan , and one egg beaten up . 
Polenta Pasticciata Ingredients Polenta , butter , cheese , mushrooms , tomatoes . 
Put the dish in the oven , and before serving brown it over with salamander . 
Battuffoli Ingredients Polenta , onion , butter , salt , stock , Parmesan . 
Then take it off the fire and arrange it by spoonsful in a large fireproof dish , and give each spoonful the shape and size of an egg . 
Place them one against the other , and when the first layer is done , pour over it some very good gravy or stock , and plenty of grated Parmesan . 
Arrange it thus layer by layer . 
Put it into the oven for twenty minutes , and serve very hot . 
Risotto all'Italiana Ingredients Rice , an onion , butter , stock , tomatoes , cheese . 
Fry a small onion slightly in butter , then add half a pint of very good stock . 
Boil four ounces of rice , but do not let it get pulpy , add it to the above with three medium sized tomatoes in a puree . 
Mix it all up well , add more stock , and two tablespoonsful of grated Parmesan and Cheddar mixed , and serve hot . 
Risotto alla Genovese Ingredients Rice , beef or veal , onions , parsley , butter , stock , Parmesan , sweetbread or sheep's brains . 
Cut up a small onion and fry it slightly in butter with some chopped parsley , add to this a little veal , also chopped up , and a little suet . 
Cook for ten minutes and then add two ounces of rice to it . 
, and , if you like , a little powdered saffron dissolved in a spoonful of stock and three tablespoonsful of grated Parmesan and Cheddar mixed . 
Stir well until the rice is quite cooked , but take care not to get it into a pulp . 
Risotto alla Spagnuola Ingredients Rice , pork , ham , onions , tomatoes , butter , stock , vegetables , Parmesan . 
Put a small bit of onion and an ounce of butter into a saucepan , add half a pound of tomatoes cut up and fry for a few minutes . 
Then put in some bits of loin of pork cut into dice and some bits of lean ham . 
After a time add four ounces of rice and good stock , and as soon as it begins to boil put on the cover and put the saucepan on a moderate fire . 
eggs , truffles , smoked tongue , butter . 
Make a good risotto , and when cooked put it into a fireproof dish . 
Put them in the oven for ten minutes . 
Risotto alla Parigina Ingredients Risotto , game , sauce , butter . 
Fry these in butter and serve with a rich game sauce poured over them . 
Ravioli Ingredients Flour , eggs , butter , salt , forcemeat , Parmesan , gravy or stock . 
Make a paste with a quarter pound of flour , the yolk of two eggs , a little salt and two ounces of butter . 
On each piece put about a teaspoonful of forcemeat of fowl , game , or fish mixed with a little grated Parmesan and the yolks of one or two eggs . 
Butter a fireproof dish , put in a layer of the ravioli , powder them over with grated Parmesan , then another layer of ravioli and more Parmesan . 
Then add enough very good gravy to cover them , put the dish in the oven for about twenty five minutes , and serve in the dish . 
Ravioli alla Fiorentina Ingredients Beetroot , eggs , Parmesan , milk or cream , nutmeg , spices , salt , flour , gravy . 
Gnocchi alla Romana Ingredients Semolina , butter , Parmesan , eggs , nutmeg , milk , cream . 
Mix all well together , then let it cool , and spread out the paste so that it is about the thickness of a finger . 
Put a little butter and grated Parmesan and two tablespoonsful of cream in a fireproof dish , cut out the semolina paste with a small dariole mould and put it in the dish . 
Dust a little more Parmesan over it , put it in the oven for five minutes and serve in the dish . 
Gnocchi alla Lombarda Ingredients Potatoes , flour , salt , Parmesan and Gruyere cheese , butter , milk , eggs . 
Then drop the gnocchi one by one into boiling salted water and boil for ten minutes . 
Take them out with a slice , and put them in a well buttered fireproof dish , add butter between each layer , and strew plenty of grated Parmesan and Cheddar over them . 
Put them in the oven for ten minutes , brown the top with a salamander , and serve very hot . 
Ingredients Rice , milk , salt , butter , cinnamon , eggs , Parmesan . 
Mix all well together , and with this make a pancake with butter in a frying pan Omelettes And Other Egg Dishes No. . 
Ingredients Eggs , butter , cream , truffles , Velute sauce , croutons . 
Beat up six eggs , pass them through a sieve , and put them into a saucepan with two ounces of butter and two tablespoonsful of cream . 
Put the saucepan in a bain marie , and stir so that the eggs may not adhere . 
and a glass of Marsala , and add them to the eggs . 
Serve very hot with fried and glazed croutons . 
Instead of truffles you can use asparagus tips , peas , or cooked ham . 
Ingredients Eggs , salt , tomatoes , onion , parsley , butter , pepper . 
Cut up three or four tomatoes , and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut and a clove of garlic with a cut in it . 
Ingredients Eggs , butter , salt , pepper , nutmeg , cheese , parsley , mushrooms , Bechamel and Espagnole sauce , stock . 
with the raw yolk of one or two eggs and add it to the rest . 
Ingredients Eggs , butter , Parmesan , cream , flour , salt , pepper , curds . 
, mix all well together and reduce a little . 
With this mixture fill the hard whites of the eggs and spread the rest of the sauce on the bottom of the dish , and on this place the whites . 
Put this in the oven , pass the salamander over the top , and when the cheese is coloured serve at once . 
Ingredients Eggs , butter , mushrooms , onions , flour , white wine , fish or meat stock , salt , pepper , croutons of bread . 
Let this simmer for half an hour , so as to reduce it to a thick sauce . 
Then boil as many eggs as you want hard take out the yolks , but keep them whole . 
Ingredients Mushrooms , butter , eggs , bread crumbs , Parmesan , marjoram , garlic . 
Ingredients Eggs , tomatoes , butter , marjoram , parsley , spice . 
Peel two tomatoes and take out the seeds then mix them with an ounce of butter , chopped marjoram , parsley , and a tiny pinch of spice . 
, and make an omelette . 
Ingredients Eggs , asparagus , butter , ham , herbs , cheese . 
Add them to three beaten up eggs and make an omelette . 
Ingredients Eggs , onions , sorrel , mint , parsley , asparagus , marjoram , salt , pepper , butter . 
Then add three eggs beaten up and a little grated cheese , and make your omelette . 
Ingredients Eggs , Parmesan , pepper , parsley . 
Beat up the whites of three eggs to a froth and the yolks separately with a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan , chopped parsley , and a little pepper . 
Then mix them and make a light omelette . 
Ingredients Eggs , ham , Parmesan , mint , pepper , clotted cream . 
Bodino of Semolina Ingredients Semolina , milk , eggs , castor sugar , lemon , sultanas , rum , butter , cream , or Zabajone . 
Mix well , so as to get it very smooth , pour it into a buttered mould and serve either hot or cold . 
If cold , put whipped cream flavoured with stick vanilla round the dish if hot , a Zabajone . 
Ingredients Coffee , cream , eggs , sugar , butter . 
Ingredients Cream , castor sugar , Maraschino , strawberries or strawberry jam . 
Put a pint of cream on ice , and after two hours whip it up . 
Pass three tablespoonsful of strawberry jam through a sieve and add two tablespoonsful of Maraschino mix this with the cream and build it up into a pyramid . 
Garnish with meringue biscuits and serve quickly . 
You may use fresh strawberries when in season , but then add castor sugar to taste . 
Ingredients Almonds , sugar , lemon juice , butter , castor sugar , pistachios , preserved fruits . 
When the sugar is dissolved , throw the hot almonds into it and also a little lemon juice . 
Then take it out of the mould and decorate it with castor sugar , pistacchio nuts , and preserved fruits . 
Fill this case with whipped cream and preserved fruits or fresh strawberries . 
Ingredients Cream , eggs , caramel sugar , vanilla or lemon flavouring . 
Boil a pint of cream and give it any flavour you like . 
Boil in a bain marie for an hour and serve hot or cold . 
Cremona Cake Ingredients Ground rice , ground maize , sugar , one orange , eggs , salt , cream , Maraschino , almonds , preserved cherries . 
make a light paste with them , but only use one whole egg and the yolks of the two others , add the scraped peel of an orange and a pinch of salt . 
Cake alla Tolentina Ingredients Sponge cake , jam , brandy or Maraschino , cream , pine apple . 
Riso all'Imperatrice Ingredients Rice , sugar , milk , ice , preserved fruits , blanc mange , Maraschino , cream . 
Boil two dessert spoonsful of rice and one of sugar in milk . 
When sufficiently boiled , drain the rice and let it get cold . 
Fill the mould with this , and when it is sufficiently cold , turn it out and serve with a garnish of glace fruits or a few brandy cherries . 
Ingredients Almonds , eggs , castor sugar . 
Mix with the white of an egg well beaten up into a snow , and shape into little balls about the size of a pigeon's egg . 
Put them on a piece of stout white paper , and bake them in a very slow oven . 
They should be very light and delicate in flavour . 
Cakes alla Livornese Ingredients Almonds , eggs , sugar , salt , potato flour , butter . 
Pound two ounces of almonds , and mix them with the yolks of two eggs and a spoonful of castor sugar flavoured with orange juice . 
When it is all well mixed , add one ounce of melted butter , shape the cakes and bake them in a slow oven . 
Genoese Pastry Ingredients Eggs , sugar , butter , flour , almonds , orange or lemon , brandy . 
Weigh four eggs , and take equal weights of castor sugar , butter , and flour . 
Spread out the paste in thin layers on a copper baking sheet , cover them with buttered paper , and bake in a moderately hot oven . 
These cakes must be cut into shapes when they are hot , as otherwise they will break . 
Zabajone Ingredients Eggs , sugar , Marsala , Maraschino or other light coloured liqueur , sponge fingers . 
Zabajone is a kind of syllabub . 
It is made with Marsala and Maraschino , or Marsala and yellow Chartreuse . 
Reckon the quantities as follows for each person the yolks of three eggs , one teaspoonful of castor sugar to each egg , and a wine glass of wine and liqueur mixed . 
Whip up the yolks of the eggs with the sugar , then gradually add the wine . 
Put this in a bain marie , and stir until it has thickened to the consistency of a custard . 
Take care , however , that it does not boil . 
Serve hot in custard glasses , and hand sponge fingers with it . 
Iced Zabajone Ingredients Eggs , castor sugar , Marsala , cinnamon , lemon , stick vanilla , rum , Maraschino , butter , ice . 
Add a tablespoonful of Maraschino and one of rum , and , if you like , a small quantity of dissolved isinglass . 
Stir up the whole , pour it into a silver souffle dish , and put it on ice . 
Serve with sponge cakes or iced wafers . 
Ingredients Honey , almonds , filberts , candied lemon peel , pepper , cinnamon , chocolate , corn flour , large wafers . 
Mix all well together , and gradually add a tablespoonful of corn flour end two of ground almonds to thicken it . 
Then take the vessel off the fire , spread the mixture on large wafers , and make each cake about an inch thick . 
Garnish them on the top with almonds cut in half , and dust over a little powdered sugar and cinnamon , then put them in a very slow oven for an hour . 
NEW CENTURY SAUCE The New Century Sauce may be bought at Messrs . 
Lazenby's , Wigmore Street , W No. . 
Fish Sauce Add one dessert spoonful of the sauce to a quarter pint of melted butter sauce . 
One dessert spoonful to a quarter pint of ordinary brown or white stock . 
It may be thickened by a roux made by frying two ounces of butter with two ounces of flour . 
Sauce for Venison , Hare , c . 
Two dessert spoonsful of New Century Sauce to half a pint of game gravy or sauce , and a small teaspoonful of red currant jelly . 
Tomato Sauce Piquante Fry three medium sized tomatoes in one and a half ounce of butter . 
Pass this through a sieve , then boil it up in a bain marie till it thickens , and add one dessertspoonful of New Century Sauce . 
Sauce for Roast Pork , Ham , c . 
Add to any ordinary white or brown sauce one dessert spoonful of New Century Sauce and two of port or Burgundy if the sauce is brown , two of Chablis if white . 
For masking Cutlets , c . 
Making a roux by frying two ounces of butter with two ounces of flour , and add two tablespoonsful of boiling stock . 
Stir in one dessert spoonful of New Century Sauce . 
Let it get cold , and it will then be quite firm and ready for masking cutlets , c . 
End Project Gutenberg Etext of A Cook's Decameron . 
