CLOTELLE OR , THE COLORED HEROINE . 
A TALE OF THE SOUTHERN STATES . 
By William Wells Brown CLOTELLE CHAPTER I THE SOUTHERN SOCIAL CIRCLE FOR many years the South has been noted for its beautiful Quadroon women . 
Indeed , the greater portion of the colored women , in the days of slavery , had no greater aspiration than that of becoming the finely dressed mistress of some white man . 
At the negro balls and parties , that used to be so frequently given , this class of women generally made the most splendid appearance . 
A few years ago , among the many slave women of Richmond , Va . 
, who hired their time of their masters , was Agnes , a mulatto owned by John Graves , Esq . 
, and who might be heard boasting that she was the daughter of an American Senator . 
Although nearly forty years of age at the time of which we write , Agnes was still exceedingly handsome . 
More than half white , with long black hair and deep blue eyes , no one felt like disputing with her when she urged her claim to her relationship with the Anglo Saxon . 
In her younger days , Agnes had been a housekeeper for a young slave holder , and in sustaining this relation had become the mother of two daughters . 
Isabella and Marion , the two daughters of Agnes , resided with their mother , and gave her what aid they could in her business . 
The mother , however , was very choice of her daughters , and would allow them to perform no labor that would militate against their lady like appearance . 
Agnes early resolved to bring up her daughters as ladies , as she termed it . 
As the girls grew older , the mother had to pay a stipulated price for them per month . 
Although the term negro ball is applied to these gatherings , yet a large portion of the men who attend them are whites . 
These are gatherings of the most democratic character . 
Bankers , merchants , lawyers , doctors , and their clerks and students , all take part in these social assemblies upon terms of perfect equality . 
The father and son not unfrequently meet and dance vis a vis at a negro ball . 
It was at one of these parties that Henry Linwood , the son of a wealthy and retired gentleman of Richmond , was first introduced to Isabella , the oldest daughter of Agnes . 
The young man had just returned from Harvard College , where he had spent the previous five years . 
Isabella was in her eighteenth year , and was admitted by all who knew her to be the handsomest girl , colored or white , in the city . 
On this occasion , she was attired in a sky blue silk dress , with deep black lace flounces , and bertha of the same . 
Marion was scarcely less richly dressed than her sister . 
Henry Linwood paid great attention to Isabella , which was looked upon with gratification by her mother , and became a matter of general conversation with all present . 
Of course , the young man escorted the beautiful quadroon home that evening , and became the favorite visitor at the house of Agnes . 
He drew from his pocket a newspaper wet from the press , and read the following advertisement NOTICE . 
Seventy nine negroes will be offered for sale on Monday , September , at o'clock , being the entire stock of the late John Graves . 
The negroes are in excellent condition , and all warranted against the common vices . 
Also several mulatto girls of rare personal qualities , two of these very superior . 
Among the above slaves advertised for sale were Agnes and her two daughters . 
Ere young Linwood left the quadroon that evening , he promised her that he would become her purchaser , and make her free and her own mistress . 
Having inherited his slaves with the rest of his property , he became possessed of them without any consultation or wish of his own . 
He would neither buy nor sell slaves , and was exceedingly careful , in letting them out , that they did not find oppressive and tyrannical masters . 
No slave speculator ever dared to cross the threshold of this planter of the Old Dominion . 
He was a constant attendant upon religious worship , and was noted for his general benevolence . 
The American Bible Society , the American Tract Society , and the cause of the Foreign Missions , found in him a liberal friend . 
He was always anxious that his slaves should appear well on the Sabbath , and have an opportunity of hearing the word of God . 
CHAPTER II THE NEGRO SALE AS might have been expected , the day of sale brought an unusually large number together to compete for the property to be sold . 
Men and women , too , who wished to purchase for their own use , had found their way to the slave sale . 
In the midst of the throng was one who felt a deeper interest in the result of the sale than any other of the bystanders . 
True to his promise , he was there with a blank bank check in his pocket , awaiting with impatience to enter the list as a bidder for the beautiful slave . 
Now they were to be separated , and form new relations and companions . 
Such is the precarious condition of the slave . 
Even when with a good master , there is not certainty of his happiness in the future . 
The less valuable slaves were first placed upon the auction block , one after another , and sold to the highest bidder . 
Husbands and wives were separated with a degree of indifference that is unknown in any other relation in life . 
Brothers and sisters were torn from each other , and mothers saw their children for the last time on earth . 
It was late in the day , and when the greatest number of persons were thought to be present , when Agnes and her daughters were brought out to the place of sale . 
The mother was first put upon the auction block , and sold to a noted negro trader named Jennings . 
Marion was next ordered to ascend the stand , which she did with a trembling step , and was sold for . 
All eyes were now turned on Isabella , as she was led forward by the auctioneer . 
The appearance of the handsome quadroon caused a deep sensation among the crowd . 
The auctioneer commenced by saying that Miss Isabella was fit to deck the drawing room of the finest mansion in Virginia . 
How much , gentlemen , for this real Albino ! fit fancy girl for any one ! She enjoys good health , and has a sweet temper . 
How much do you say ? Five hundred dollars . 
Only five hundred for such a girl as this ? Gentlemen , she is worth a deal more than that sum . 
You certainly do not know the value of the article you are bidding on . 
Here , gentlemen , I hold in my hand a paper certifying that she has a good moral character . 
Ah , gentlemen , that is something life . 
This paper also states that she is very intelligent . 
She was first sprinkled , then immersed , and is now warranted to be a devoted Christian , and perfectly trustworthy . 
Here the bidding came to a dead stand . 
The auctioneer stopped , looked around , and began in a rough manner to relate some anecdote connected with the sale of slaves , which he said had come under his own observation . 
At this juncture the scene was indeed a most striking one . 
The chastity of this girl , now continued the auctioneer , is pure . 
She has never been from under her mother's care . 
She is virtuous , and as gentle as a dove . 
The bids here took a fresh start , and went on until was reached . 
The auctioneer once more resorted to his jokes , and concluded by assuring the company that Isabella was not only pious , but that she could make an excellent prayer . 
This was the last bid , and the quadroon girl was struck off , and became the property of Henry Linwood . 
Linwood had already provided a place for Isabella , to which she was taken . 
The most trying moment for her was when she took leave of her mother and sister . 
The Good by of the slave is unlike that of any other class in the community . 
It is indeed a farewell forever . 
With tears streaming down their cheeks , they embraced and commended each other to God , who is no respecter of persons , and before whom master and slave must one day appear . 
A more repulsive looking person could scarcely be found in any community of bad looking men . 
Jennings prided himself upon what he called his goodness of heat , and was always speaking of his humanity . 
The slave trader started at early dawn , and was beyond the confines of the city long before the citizens were out of their beds . 
As a slave regards a life on the sugar , cotton , or rice plantation as even worse than death , they are ever on the watch for an opportunity to escape . 
The trader , aware of this , secures his victims in chains before he sets out on his journey . 
On this occasion , Jennings had the men chained in pairs , while the women were allowed to go unfastened , but were closely watched . 
After a march of eight days , the company arrived on the banks of the Ohio River , where they took a steamer for the place of their destination . 
Few persons can arrive at anything approaching the real age of the negro , by mere observation , unless they are well acquainted with the race . 
Therefore , the slave trader frequently carried out the deception with perfect impunity . 
Among the forty slaves that the trader had on this occasion , were some whose appearance indicated that they had seen some years and had gone through considerable service . 
Their gray hair and whiskers at once pronounced them to be above the ages set down in the trader's advertisement . 
Dis chile is none of your haf and haf , dere is no bogus about him . 
How old is you ? addressing himself to a man not less than forty . 
If I live to see next sweet potato digging time , I shall be either forty or forty five , I don't know which . 
Dat may be , replied Pompey but now you is only thirty years old , dat's what marser says you is to be . 
I know I is more den dat , responded the man . 
But if you tell um dat you is only thirty , den he won't . 
Now remember dat you is thirty years old and no more . 
Well den , I guess I will only be thirty when dey ax me . 
What's your name ? said Pompey , addressing himself to another . 
Oh ! Uncle Jim , is it ? Yes . 
Den you must have all them gray whiskers shaved off , and all dem gray hairs plucked out of your head . 
This was all said by Pompey in a manner which showed that he knew what he was about . 
How old is you ? asked Pompey of a tall , strong looking man . 
What's your name ? I am twenty nine years old , and my name is Tobias , but they calls me Toby . 
Be sure , said Jennings , that the niggers don't forget what you have taught them , for our luck this time in the market depends upon their appearance . 
If any of them have so many gray hairs that you cannot pluck them out , take the blacking and brush , and go at them . 
This was the signal for a general commotion on board the Patriot , and everything indicated that a steamboat race was at hand . 
Nothing can exceed the excitement attendant upon the racing of steamers on the Mississippi . 
By the time the boats had reached Memphis they were side by side , and each exerting itself to get in advance of the other . 
The night was clear , the moon shining brightly , and the boats so near to each other that the passengers were within speaking distance . 
On board the Patriot the firemen were using oil , lard , butter , and even bacon , with wood , for the purpose of raising the steam to its highest pitch . 
The blaze mingled with the black smoke that issued from the pipes of the other boat , which showed that she also was burning something more combustible than wood . 
The firemen of both boats , who were slaves , were singing songs such as can only be heard on board a Southern steamer . 
The boats now came abreast of each other , and nearer and nearer , until they were locked so that men could pass from one to the other . 
The wildest excitement prevailed among the men employed on the steamers , in which the passengers freely participated . 
The Patriot now stopped to take in passengers , but still no steam was permitted to escape . 
One dense fog of steam filled every part of the vessel , while shrieks , groans , and cries were heard on every side . 
Men were running hither and thither looking for their wives , and women were flying about in the wildest confusion seeking for their husbands . 
Dismay appeared on every countenance . 
were put on shore , and the Patriot , taken in tow by the Washington , was once more on her journey . 
It was half past twelve , and the passengers , instead of retiring to their berths , once more assembled at the gambling tables . 
The practice of gambling on the western waters has long been a source of annoyance to the more moral persons who travel on our great rivers . 
Thousands of dollars often change owners during a passage from St . 
Louis or Louisville to New Orleans , on a Mississippi steamer . 
Many men are completely ruined on such occasions , and duels are often the consequence . 
Go call my boy , steward , said Mr. Jones , as he took his cards one by one from the table . 
In a few minutes a fine looking , bright eyed mulatto boy , apparently about sixteen years of age , was standing by his master's side at the table . 
You have beaten me , said Jones and a roar of laughter followed from the other gentleman as poor Joe stepped down from the table . 
Well , I suppose I owe you half the nigger , said Thompson , as he took hold of Joe and began examining his limbs . 
Yes , replied Jones , he is half yours . 
Let me have five hundred dollars , and I will give you a bill of sale of the boy . 
Go back to your bed , said Thompson to his chattel , and remember that you now belong to me . 
The poor slave wiped the tears from his eyes , as , in obedience , he turned to leave the table . 
My father gave me that boy , said Jones , as he took the money , and I hope , Mr. Thompson , that you will allow me to redeem him . 
Most certainly , sir , replied Thompson . 
Whenever you hand over the cool thousand the negro is yours . 
Who do you belong to ? inquired a gentleman of an old negro , who passed along leading a fine Newfoundland dog which he had been feeding . 
Such is the uncertainty of a slave's life . 
CHAPTER V THE YOUNG MOTHER ON the fourth morning , the Patriot landed at Grand Gulf , a beautiful town on the left bank of the Mississippi . 
Among the numerous passengers who came on board at Rodney was another slave trader , with nine human chattels which he was conveying to the Southern market . 
She had in her arms a child so white that no one would suppose a drop of African blood flowed through its blue veins . 
No one could behold that mother with her helpless babe , without feeling that God would punish the oppressor . 
The tears that stood in her mild blue eyes showed that she was brooding over sorrows and wrongs that filled her bleeding heart . 
The small , dimpled hands of the innocent creature were slyly hid in the warm bosom on which the little one nestled . 
The blood of some proud Southerner , no doubt , flowed through the veins of that child . 
When the boat arrived at Natches , a rather good looking , genteel appearing man came on board to purchase a servant . 
This individual introduced himself to Jennings as the Rev . 
It seemed as if poor Marion's heart would break when she found that she was to be separated from her mother . 
The preacher , however , appeared to be but little moved by their sorrow , and took his newly purchased victim on shore . 
Agnes begged him to buy her daughter , but he refused , on the ground that he had no use for her . 
During the remainder of the passage , Marion wept bitterly . 
Gambling and drinking were now the order of the day . 
The next morning , at ten o'clock , the boat arrived at new Orleans , where the passengers went to their hotels and homes , and the negroes to the slave pens . 
Every one that saw her felt that slavery in the Southern States was not confined to the negro . 
A back yard , enclosed by a high wall , looks something like the playground attached to one of our large New England schools , in which are rows of benches and swings . 
First of all came the beautiful Marion , whose pale countenance and dejected look told how many sad hours she had passed since parting with her mother at Natchez . 
There , too , was a poor woman who had been separated from her husband and another woman , whose looks and manners were expressive of deep anguish , sat by her side . 
There was Uncle Jeems , with his whiskers off , his face shaven clean , and the gray hairs plucked out , ready to be sold for ten years younger than he was . 
Toby was also there , with his face shaven and greased , ready for inspection . 
The examination commenced , and was carried on in such a manner as to shock the feelings of any one not entirely devoid of the milk of human kindness . 
Because I left my man behind . 
Oh , if I buy you , I will furnish you with a better man than you left . 
I've got lots of young bucks on my farm . 
I don't want and never will have another man , replied the woman . 
What's you name ? asked a man in a straw hat of a tall negro who stood with his arms folded across his breast , leaning against the wall . 
My name is Aaron , sar . 
How old are you ? Twenty five . 
Where were you raised ? In old Virginny , sar . 
How many men have owned you ? Four . 
Do you enjoy good health ? Yes , sar . 
How long did you live with your first owner ? Twenty years . 
Did you ever run away ? No , sar . 
Did you ever strike your master ? No , sar . 
Were you ever whipped much ? No , sar I s'pose I didn't desarve it , sar . 
How long did you live with your second master ? Ten years , sar . 
Have you a good appetite ? Yes , sar . 
Can you eat your allowance ? Yes , sar , when I can get it . 
Where were you employed in Virginia ? I worked de tobacker fiel' . 
In the tobacco field , eh ? Yes , sar . 
How old did you say you was ? Twenty five , sar , nex' sweet 'tater diggin' time . 
I am a cotton planter , and if I buy you , you will have to work in the cotton field . 
Now , do you think you could keep up with the rest of the hands ? I don't know , sar , but I 'specs I'd have to . 
How long did you live with your third master ? Three years , sar . 
Why , that makes you thirty three . 
I thought you told me you were only twenty five ? Aaron now looked first at the planter , then at the trader , and seemed perfectly bewildered . 
He had forgotten the lesson given him by Pompey relative to his age and the planter's circuitous questions doubtless to find out the slave's real age had thrown the negro off his guard . 
I must see you back , so as to know how much you have been whipped , before I think of buying . 
Cum , unharness yo'seff , ole boy , and don't be standin' dar . 
Aaron was soon examined , and pronounced sound yet the conflicting statement about his age was not satisfactory . 
Fortunately for Marion , she was spared the pain of undergoing such an examination . 
CHAPTER VII THE SLAVE HOLDING PARSON THE Rev . 
James Wilson was a native of the State of Connecticut , where he was educated for the ministry in the Methodist persuasion . 
Young Wilson accepted his uncle's invitation , and accompanied him to the South . 
Mr. Wilson was not an exception to this rule . 
Added to this , he became a popular preacher , and had a large congregation with a snug salary . 
Like other planters , Mr. Wilson confided the care of his farm to Ned Huckelby , an overseer of high reputation in his way . 
The Poplar Farm , as it was called , was situated in a beautiful valley , nine miles from Natchez , and near the Mississippi River . 
The once unshorn face of nature had given way , and the farm now blossomed with a splendid harvest . 
This was the parson's country residence , where the family spent only two months during the year . 
His town residence was a fine villa , seated on the brow of a hill , at the edge of the city . 
It was in the kitchen of this house that Agnes found her new home . 
I believe that the sons of Ham should have the gospel , and I intend that mine shall have it . 
The gospel is calculated to make mankind better and none should be without it . 
What say you , said Carlingham , about the right of man to his liberty ? Now , Carlingham , you have begun to harp again about men's rights . 
I really wish that you could see this matter as I do . 
I regret that I cannot see eye to eye with you , said Carlingham . 
Now , my dear Carlingham , would you really have the negroes enjoy the same rights as ourselves ? I would most certainly . 
Look at our great Declaration of Independence ! look even at the Constitution of our own Connecticut , and see what is said in these about liberty . 
I regard all this talk about rights as mere humbug . 
The Bible is older than the Declaration of Independence , and there I take my stand . 
A long discussion followed , in which both gentlemen put forth their peculiar ideas with much warmth of feeling . 
This was Georgiana , the only daughter of the parson , who had but just returned from Connecticut , where she had finished her education . 
Georgiana was in her nineteenth year , and had been much benefited by her residence of five years at the North . 
Her form was tall and graceful , her features regular and well defined , and her complexion was illuminated by the freshness of youth , beauty , and health . 
Mr. Wilson laughed , appearing rather pleased than otherwise at the manner in which his daughter had expressed herself . 
From this Georgiana took courage and continued , 'Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself . 
This single passage of Scripture should cause us to have respect for the rights of the slave . 
True Christian love is of an enlarged and disinterested nature . 
It loves all who love the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity , without regard to color or condition . 
Mr. Wilson having lost his wife by consumption , and Georgiana being his only child , he loved her too dearly to say more , even if he felt disposed . 
A silence followed this exhortation from the young Christian , but her remarks had done a noble work . 
The father's heart was touched , and the sceptic , for the first time , was viewing Christianity in its true light . 
CHAPTER VIII A NIGHT IN THE PARSON'S KITCHEN BESIDES Agnes , whom Mr. Wilson had purchased from the slave trader , Jennings , he kept a number of house servants . 
The chief one of these was Sam , who must be regarded as second only to the parson himself . 
If furniture , crockery , or anything was to be purchased , Sam felt that he had been slighted if his opinion was not asked . 
As to the marketing , he did it all . 
He sat at the head of the servants' table in the kitchen , and was master of the ceremonies . 
A single look from him was enough to silence any conversation or noise among the servants in the kitchen or in any other part of the premises . 
There is in the Southern States a great amount of prejudice in regard to color , even among the negroes themselves . 
The nearer the negro or mulatto approaches to the white , the more he seems to feel his superiority over those of a darker hue . 
This is no doubt the result of the prejudice that exists on the part of the whites against both the mulattoes and the blacks . 
Sam had a great wish to follow in the footsteps of his master and be a poet , and was therefore often heard singing doggerels of his own composition . 
But there was one drawback to Sam , and that was his color . 
He was one of the blackest of his race . 
This he evidently regarded as a great misfortune but he endeavored to make up for it in dress . 
Mr. Wilson kept his house servants well dressed , and as for Sam , he was seldom seen except in a ruffled shirt . 
Indeed , the washerwoman feared him more than any one else in the house . 
Agnes had been inaugurated chief of the kitchen department , and had a general supervision of the household affairs . 
Alfred , the coachman , Peter , and Hetty made up the remainder of the house servants . 
Besides these , Mr. Wilson owned eight slaves who were masons . 
These worked in the city . 
Being mechanics , they were let out to greater advantage than to keep them on the farm . 
Every Sunday evening , Mr. Wilson's servants , including the brick layers , assembled in the kitchen , where the events of the week were fully discussed and commented upon . 
Tea had been served in the house , and the servants , including the strangers , had taken their seats at the table in the kitchen . 
Sam , being a single gentleman , was unusually attentive to the ladies on this occasion . 
He seldom let a day pass without spending an hour or two in combing and brushing his har . 
When he wished to appear to great advantage , he would grease his face to make it shiny . 
Therefore , on the evening of the party , when all the servants were at the table , Sam cut a big figure . 
There he sat , with his wool well combed and buttered , face nicely greased , and his ruffles extending five or six inches from his bosom . 
The parson in his drawing room did not make a more imposing appearance than did his servant on this occasion . 
I jis bin had my fortune tole last Sunday night , said Sam , while helping one of the girls . 
Indeed ! cried half a dozen voices . 
I 'specs I see somebody blush at dat remark , said Alfred . 
Pass dem pancakes an' 'lasses up dis way , Mr. Alf . 
, and none ob your 'sinuwashuns here , rejoined Sam . 
Dat reminds me , said Agnes , dat Dorcas Simpson is gwine to git married . 
Who to , I want to know ? inquired Peter . 
To one of Mr. Darby's field hands , answered Agnes . 
I should tink dat gal wouldn't frow herseff away in dat ar way , said Sally . 
She's good lookin' 'nough to git a house servant , and not hab to put up wid a field nigger . 
Yes , said Sam , dat's a werry unsensible remark ob yourn , Miss Sally . 
I admires your judgment werry much , I 'sures you . 
Dar's plenty ob susceptible an' well dressed house serbants dat a gal ob her looks can git widout takin' up wid dem common darkies . 
The evening's entertainment concluded by Sam's relating a little of his own experience while with his first master , in old Kentucky . 
This master was a doctor , and had a large practice among his neighbors , doctoring both masters and slaves . 
When Sam was about fifteen years old , his master set him to grinding up ointment and making pills . 
As the young student grew older and became more practised in his profession , his services were of more importance to the doctor . 
Sam soon acquired the name among the slaves of the Black Doctor . 
With this appellation he was delighted and no regular physician could have put on more airs than did the black doctor when his services were required . 
In bleeding , he must have more bandages , and would rub and smack the arm more than the doctor would have thought of . 
Sam was once seen taking out a tooth for one of his patients , and nothing appeared more amusing . 
He got the poor fellow down on his back , and then getting astride of his chest , he applied the turnkeys and pulled away for dear life . 
Bleeding and a dose of calomel were always considered indispensable by the old boss , and as a matter of course , Sam followed in his footsteps . 
On one occasion the old doctor was ill himself , so as to be unable to attend to his patients . 
A slave , with pass in hand , called to receive medical advice , and the master told Sam to examine him and see what he wanted . 
As might have been expected , he cut a rare figure in his first examination . 
Placing himself directly opposite his patient , and folding his arms across his breast , looking very knowingly , he began , What's de matter wid you ? I is sick . 
Where is you sick ? Here , replied the man , putting his hand upon his stomach . 
Put out your tongue , continued the doctor . 
The man ran out his tongue at full length . 
What do you think had better be done for him ? I tink I'd better bleed him and gib him a dose ob calomel , returned Sam . 
So , to the latter's gratification , the master let him have his own way . 
On one occasion , when making pills and ointment , Sam made a great mistake . 
He got the preparations for both mixed together , so that he could not legitimately make either . 
Therefore Sam made his pills , boxed them up , put on the labels , and placed them in a conspicuous position on one of the shelves . 
Sam felt a degree of anxiety about his pills , however . 
It was a strange mixture , and he was not certain whether it would kill or cure but he was willing that it should be tried . 
At last the young doctor had his vanity gratified . 
Tallen , one of Dr . 
Saxondale's patients , drove up one morning , and Sam as usual ran out to the gate to hold the colonel's horse . 
Call your master , said the colonel I will not get out . 
The doctor was soon beside the carriage , and inquired about the health of his patient . 
After a little consultation , the doctor returned to his office , took down a box of Sam's new pills , and returned to the carriage . 
Take two of these every morning and night , said the doctor , and if you don't feel relieved , double the dose . 
Good gracious , exclaimed Sam in an undertone , when he heard his master tell the colonel how to take the pills . 
It was several days before Sam could learn the result of his new medicine . 
One afternoon , about a fortnight after the colonel's visit , Sam saw his master's patient riding up to the gate on horseback . 
The doctor happened to be in the yard , and met the colonel and said , How are you now ? I am entirely recovered , replied the patient . 
Those pills of yours put me on my feet the next day . 
I knew they would , rejoined the doctor . 
Sam was near enough to hear the conversation , and was delighted beyond description . 
The negro immediately ran into the kitchen , amongst his companions , and commenced dancing . 
What de matter wid you ? inquired the cook . 
I is de greatest doctor in his country , replied Sam . 
Ef you ever get sick , call on me . 
No matter what ails you , I is de man dat can cure you in no time . 
For a long time after , Sam did little else than boast of his skill as a doctor . 
We have said that the black doctor was full of wit and good sense . 
Indeed , in that respect , he had scarcely an equal in the neighborhood . 
Although his master resided some little distance out of the city , Sam was always the first man in all the negro balls and parties in town . 
Of course , the master never knew anything of the absence of the servant at night without permission . 
Having resolved to attend a dress ball one night , without his master's permission , and being perplexed for suitable garments , Sam determined to take his master's . 
So , dressing himself in the doctor's clothes , even to his boots and hat , off the negro started for the city . 
Being well acquainted with the usual walk of the patrols he found no difficulty in keeping out of their way . 
As might have been expected , Sam was the great gun with the ladies that night . 
The next morning , Sam was back home long before his master's time for rising , and the clothes were put in their accustomed place . 
One stormy night , when the rain was descending in torrents , the doctor heard a rap at his door . 
It was customary with him , when called up at night to visit a patient , to ring for Sam . 
But this time , the servant was nowhere to be found . 
The doctor struck a light and looked for clothes they , too , were gone . 
It was twelve o'clock , and the doctor's clothes , hat , boots , and even his watch , were nowhere to be found . 
Here was a pretty dilemma for a doctor to be in . 
It was some time before the physician could fit himself out so as to make the visit . 
At last , however , he started with one of the farm horses , for Sam had taken the doctor's best saddle horse . 
The doctor felt sure that the negro had robbed him , and was on his way to Canada but in this he was mistaken . 
Sam had gone to the city to attend a ball , and had decked himself out in his master's best suit . 
The physician returned before morning , and again retired to bed but with little hope of sleep , for his thoughts were with his servant and horse . 
At six o'clock , in walked Sam with his master's clothes , and the boots neatly blacked . 
The watch was placed on the shelf , and the hat in its place . 
Sam had not met any of the servants , and was therefore entirely ignorant of what had occurred during his absence . 
What have you been about , sir , and where was you last night when I was called ? asked the doctor . 
I don't know , sir . 
I 'spose I was asleep , replied Sam . 
But the doctor was not to be so easily satisfied , after having been put to so much trouble in hunting up another suit without the aid of Sam . 
After breakfast , Sam was taken into the barn , tied up , and severely flogged with the cat , which brought from him the truth concerning his absence the previous night . 
This forever put an end to his fine appearance at the negro parties . 
Had not the doctor been one of the most indulgent of masters , he would not have escaped with merely a severe whipping . 
As a matter of course , Sam had to relate to his companions that evening in Mr. Wilson's kitchen all his adventures as a physician while with his old master . 
Hence it was that he had been induced to purchase Marion . 
The young physician had been in New Orleans but a very few weeks , and had seen but little of slavery . 
He was unprepared to behold with composure a beautiful white girl of sixteen in the degraded position of a chattel slave . 
The blood chilled in his young heart as he heard Cardinay tell how , by bantering with the trader , he had bought her two hundred dollars less than he first asked . 
His very looks showed that she had the deepest sympathies of his heart . 
Marion had been brought up by her mother to look after the domestic concerns of her cottage in Virginia , and well knew how to perform the duties imposed upon her . 
Mrs. Cardinay was much pleased with her new servant , and often mentioned her good qualities in the presence of Mr. Morton . 
After eight months acquaintance with Marion , Morton's sympathies ripened into love , which was most cordially reciprocated by the friendless and injured child of sorrow . 
The young man , after purchasing Marion from Cardinay , and marrying her , took lodgings in another part of the city . 
A private teacher was called in , and the young wife was taught some of those accomplishments so necessary for one taking a high position in good society . 
Morton soon obtained a large and influential practice in his profession , and with it increased in wealth but with all his wealth he never owned a slave . 
Probably the fact that he had raised his wife from that condition kept the hydra headed system continually before him . 
To the credit of Marion be it said , she used every means to obtain the freedom of her mother , who had been sold to Parson Wilson , at Natchez . 
Her efforts , however , had come too late for Agnes had died of a fever before the arrival of Dr . 
Marion found in Adolphus Morton a kind and affectionate husband and his wish to purchase her mother , although unsuccessful , had doubly endeared him to her . 
Ere a year had elapsed from the time of their marriage , Mrs. Morton presented her husband with a lovely daughter , who seemed to knit their hearts still closer together . 
This child they named Jane and before the expiration of the second year , they were blessed with another daughter , whom they named Adrika . 
CHAPTER X THE QUADROON'S HOME A FEW miles out of Richmond is a pleasant place , with here and there a beautiful cottage surrounded by trees so as scarcely to be seen . 
Among these was one far retired from the public roads , and almost hidden among the trees . 
This was the spot that Henry Linwood had selected for Isabella , the eldest daughter of Agnes . 
The young man hired the house , furnished it , and placed his mistress there , and for many months no one in his father's family knew where he spent his leisure hours . 
When Henry was not with her , Isabella employed herself in looking after her little garden and the flowers that grew in front of her cottage . 
But this was an impossibility under the State laws , even had the young man been disposed to do what was right in the matter . 
Here , in this secluded grove , unvisited by any other except her lover , Isabella lived for years . 
She had become the mother of a lovely daughter , which its father named Clotelle . 
The complexion of the child was still fairer than that of its mother . 
Indeed , she was not darker than other white children , and as she grew older she more and more resembled her father . 
Both Henry and Gertrude were very good looking , and a mutual attachment sprang up between them . 
When he was with her , she devoted every moment of her time to him , and never failed to speak of the growth and increasing intelligence of Clotelle . 
The child had grown so large as to be able to follow its father on his departure out to the road . 
But the impression made on Henry's feelings by the devoted woman and her child was momentary . 
His heart had grown hard , and his acts were guided by no fixed principle . 
Henry and Gertrude had been married nearly two years before Isabella knew anything of the event , and it was merely by accident that she became acquainted with the facts . 
One beautiful afternoon , when Isabella and Clotelle were picking wild strawberries some two miles from their home , and near the road side , they observed a one horse chaise driving past . 
The mother turned her face from the carriage not wishing to be seen by strangers , little dreaming that the chaise contained Henry and his wife . 
The mother turned in haste to look at the strangers , and her eyes encountered those of Henry's pale and dejected countenance . 
Gertrude's eyes were on the child . 
The swiftness with which Henry drove by could not hide from his wife the striking resemblance of the child to himself . 
Who is that woman ? and why did that child call you papa ? she inquired , with a trembling voice . 
Henry was silent he knew not what to say , and without another word passing between them , they drove home . 
On reaching her room , Gertrude buried her face in her handkerchief and wept . 
When Gertrude retired to her bed that night , the sad scene of the day followed her . 
The return of Henry at twelve o'clock did not increase her happiness . 
Feeling his guilt , he had absented himself from the house since his return from the ride . 
More than a fortnight had elapsed since the accidental meeting , and Isabella was in doubt as to who the lady was that Henry was with in the carriage . 
Little , however , did she think that it was his wife . 
With a smile , Isabella met the young man as he entered her little dwelling . 
Clotelle had already gone to bed , but her father's voice aroused her from her sleep , and she was soon sitting on his knee . 
She was , in fact , ignorant who the lady was who accompanied the man she loved on that eventful day . 
He , aware of this , now acted more like himself , and passed the thing off as a joke . 
At heart , however , Isabella felt uneasy , and this uneasiness would at times show itself to the young man . 
I know there is no law by which I can hold you , and if there was , I would not resort to it . 
You are as dear to me as ever , and my thoughts shall always be devoted to you . 
It would be a great sacrifice for me to give you up to another , but if it be your desire , as great as the sacrifice is , I will make it . 
Send me and your child into a Free State if we are in your way . 
Again and again Linwood assured her that no woman possessed his love but her . 
Giving his horse in charge of the servant who was waiting , he entered the house , and found his wife in tears . 
Somewhat heated with brandy , and wearied with much loss of sleep , Linwood fell into a sound slumber as soon as he retired . 
That faithfulness which has ever distinguished her sex , and the anxiety with which she watched all his movements , kept the wife awake while the husband slept . 
His sleep , though apparently sound , was nevertheless uneasy . 
Again and again she heard him pronounce the name of Isabella , and more than once she heard him say , I am not married I will never marry while you live . 
This Gertrude knew and had she not considered it her duty , she would have kept the secret locked in her own heart . 
During the day , Mrs. Linwood visited her mother and told her all that had happened . 
Three days were spent by Mrs. Miller in this endeavor , but without success . 
Being satisfied that the young man had not seen her , the old woman at once resolved to follow him . 
Linwood's boots squeaked so loudly that Mrs. Miller had no difficulty in following him without being herself observed . 
After a walk of about two miles , the young man turned into a narrow and unfrequented road , and soon entered the cottage occupied by Isabella . 
It was a fine starlight night , and the moon was just rising when they got to their journey's end . 
As usual , Isabella met Henry with a smile , and expressed her fears regarding his health . 
Hours passed , and still old Mrs. Miller remained near the house , determined to know who lived there . 
When she undertook to ferret out anything , she bent her whole energies to it . 
Had little Clotelle been awake , she too would have been at the door . 
As Henry walked to the gate , Isabella followed with her left hand locked in his . 
Again he looked at his watch , and said , I must go . 
It is more than a year since you staid all night , murmured Isabella , as he folded her convulsively in his arms , and pressed upon her beautiful lips a parting kiss . 
He was nearly out of sight when , with bitter sobs , the quadroon retraced her steps to the door of the cottage . 
Clotelle had in the mean time awoke , and now inquired of her mother how long her father had been gone . 
To her amazement , however , a strange woman stood in the door . 
Who are you that comes here at this late hour ? demanded the half frightened Isabella . 
Without making any reply , Mrs. Miller pushed the quadroon aside , and entered the house . 
What do you want here ? again demanded Isabella . 
Seized with dizziness , the poor , heart broken woman fainted and fell upon the floor . 
How long she remained there she could not tell but when she returned to consciousness , the strange woman was gone , and her child was standing by her side . 
As she stood there , the full moon cast its bright rays over her whole person , giving her an angelic appearance and imparting to her flowing hair a still more golden hue . 
Suddenly another change came over her features , and her full red kips trembled as with suppressed emotion . 
The muscles around her faultless mouth became convulsed , she gasped for breath , and exclaiming , Is it possible that man can be so false ! again fainted . 
Clotelle stood and bathed her mother's temples with cold water until she once more revived . 
Although the laws of Virginia forbid the education of slaves , Agnes had nevertheless employed an old free negro to teach her two daughters to read and write . 
This was now her last hope , for her heart was torn with grief and filled with all the bitterness of disappointment . 
The night passed away , but without sleep to poor Isabella . 
CHAPTER XII THE MOTHER IN LAW WHEN Harry returned home , he found his wife seated at the window , awaiting his approach . 
Secret grief was gnawing at her heart . 
Her sad , pale cheeks and swollen eyes showed too well that agony , far deeper than her speech portrayed , filled her heart . 
A dull and death like silence prevailed on his entrance . 
I am , dear Henry , replied Gertrude but I feat you are not . 
If well in body , I fear you are not at peace in mind . 
Because , she replied , you are so pale and have such a wild look in your eyes . 
Again he protested his innocence , and vowed she was the only woman who had any claim upon his heart . 
To behold one thus playing upon the feelings of two lovely women is enough to make us feel that evil must at last bring its own punishment . 
Henry and Gertrude had scarcely risen from the breakfast table next morning ere old Mrs. Miller made her appearance . 
Assert your rights , my dear . 
Let no one share a heart that justly belongs to you , said Mrs. Miller , with her eyes flashing fire . 
During these remarks , the old lady was walking up and down the room like a caged lioness . 
She had learned from Isabella that she had been purchased by Henry , and the innocence of the injured quadroon caused her to acknowledge that he was the father of her child . 
Few women could have taken such a matter in hand and carried it through with more determination and success than old Mrs. Miller . 
This caused her to look with a suspicious eye on every good looking negro woman that she saw . 
While the old woman was thus lecturing her daughter upon her rights and duties , Henry , unaware of what was transpiring , had left the house and gone to his office . 
As soon as the old woman found that he was gone , she said , I will venture anything that he is on his way to see that wench again . 
I'll lay my life on it . 
With this understanding , the old woman retraced her steps to her own dwelling . 
Had Mrs. Miller been of a different character and not surrounded by slavery , she could scarcely have been unhappy in such a home as hers . 
Just at the edge of the city , and sheltered by large poplar trees was the old homestead in which she resided . 
The garden was scarcely to be equalled . 
Its grounds were laid out in excellent taste , and rare exotics in the greenhouse made it still more lovely . 
It was in this room that Gertrude had been introduced to Henry , and the pleasant hours that she had spent there with him rushed unbidden on her memory . 
It was here that , in former days , her beautiful countenance had made her appearance as fascinating and as lovely as that of Cleopatra's . 
Her sweet , musical voice might have been heard in every part of the house , occasionally thrilling you with an unexpected touch . 
How changed the scene ! Her pale and wasted features could not be lighted up by any thoughts of the past , and she was sorrowful at heart . 
Gertrude had saved them from many a flogging , by interceding for them , when her mother was in one of her uncontrollable passions . 
Uncle Tony , too , looked regularly for Miss Gerty to visit the green house , and congratulate him on his superiority as a gardener . 
Mr. Miller was a mere cipher about his premises . 
It was settled that Mrs. Miller should use her own discretion in removing Isabella from her little cottage , and her future disposition . 
With this understanding Henry and Gertrude returned home . 
He had not the slightest idea of what would become of them but he well knew that the old woman would have no mercy on them . 
Isabella had seen the trader when he purchased her mother and sister , and immediately recognized him . 
What could these persons want there ? thought she . 
Without any parleying or word of explanation , the two entered the house , leaving the carriage in charge of a servant . 
Clotelle ran to her mother , and clung to her dress as if frightened by the strangers . 
What do you want here ? inquired Isabella , with a quivering voice . 
At last , regaining her self possession , she ordered them both to leave the house . 
Poor little Clotelle screamed as she saw the strange woman raise the tongs at her mother . 
Seize that impudent hussy , said Mrs. Miller to the overseer , and tie her up this minute , that I may teach her a lesson she won't forget in a hurry . 
As she spoke , the old woman's eyes rolled , her lips quivered , and she looked like a very fury . 
I will have nothing to do with her , if you whip her , Mrs. Miller , said the slave trader . 
Niggers ain't worth half so much in the market with their backs newly scarred , continued he , as the overseer commenced his preparations for executing Mrs. Miller's orders . 
They looked at the child with astonishment and her extreme you , wonderful beauty , and uncommon courage , seemed for a moment to shake their purpose . 
The manner and language of this child were alike beyond her years , and under other circumstances would have gained for her the approbation of those present . 
Oh , Henry , Henry ! exclaimed Isabella , wringing her hands . 
You need not call on him , hussy you will never see him again , said Mrs. Miller . 
What ! is he dead ? inquired the heart stricken woman . 
It was then that she forgot her own situation , thinking only of the man she loved . 
Suffice it to say , that instead of whipping Isabella , Mrs. Miller transferred her to the negro speculator , who took her immediately to his slave pen . 
After leaving directions as to how Isabella's furniture and other effects should be disposed of , Mrs. Miller took Clotelle into her carriage and drove home . 
There was not even color enough about the child to make it appear that a single drop of African blood flowed through its blue veins . 
Considerable sensation was created in the kitchen among the servants when the carriage drove up , and Clotelle entered the house . 
Jes' like Massa Henry fur all de worl' , said Dinah , as she caught a glimpse of the child through the window . 
Wondah whose brat dat ar' dat missis bringin' home wid her ? said Jane , as she put the ice in the pitchers for dinner . 
I warrant it's some poor white nigger somebody bin givin' her . 
What should be done to make it look like other negroes , was the question which Mrs. Miller asked herself . 
The callous hearted old woman bit her nether lip , as she viewed that child , standing before her , with her long , dark ringlets clustering over her alabaster brow and neck . 
Take this little nigger and cut her hair close to her head , said the mistress to Jane , as the latter answered the bell . 
Clotelle screamed , as she felt the scissors grating over her head , and saw those curls that her mother thought so much of falling upon the floor . 
A roar of laughter burst from the servants , as Jane led the child through the kitchen , with the hair cut so short that the naked scalp could be plainly seen . 
'Gins to look like nigger , now , said Dinah , with her mouth upon a grin . 
The mistress smiled , as the shorn child reentered the room but there was something more needed . 
The child was white , and that was a great objection . 
However , she hit upon a plan to remedy this which seemed feasible . 
The day was excessively warm . 
Not a single cloud floated over the blue vault of heaven not a breath of wind seemed moving , and the earth was parched by the broiling sun . 
Even the bees had stopped humming , and the butterflies had hid themselves under the broad leaves of the burdock . 
Without a morsel of dinner , the poor child was put in the garden , and set to weeding it , her arms , neck , and head completely bare . 
Unaccustomed to toil , Clotelle wept as she exerted herself in pulling up the weeds . 
Old Dinah , the cook , was a unfeeling as her mistress , and she was pleased to see the child made to work in the hot sun . 
Dat white nigger'll soon be brack enuff if missis keeps her workin' out dar , she said , as she wiped the perspiration from her sooty brow . 
The burning sun poured its rays on the face of the friendless child until she sank down in the corner of the garden , and was actually broiled to sleep . 
Dat little nigger ain't workin' a bit , missus , said Dinah to Mrs. Miller , as the latter entered the kitchen . 
She's lying in the sun seasoning she will work the better by and by , replied the mistress . 
Dese white niggers always tink dey seff good as white folks , said the cook . 
Yes but we will teach them better , won't we , Dinah ? rejoined Mrs. Miller . 
Yes , missus , replied Dinah I don't like dese merlatter niggers , no how . 
Dey always want to set dey seff up for sumfin' big . 
Of course , the mistress was out of the kitchen before these last remarks were made . 
It was with the deepest humiliation that Henry learned from one of his own slaves the treatment which his child was receiving at the hands of his relentless mother in law . 
The scorching sun had the desired effect for in less than a fortnight , Clotelle could scarcely have been recognized as the same child . 
Often was she seen to weep , and heard to call on her mother . 
Unaccustomed to such a soft and pleasant seat , the servant would very soon become sleepy and begin to nod . 
Sometimes she would go fast asleep , which annoyed the mistress exceedingly . 
But there was no one of Mrs. Miller's servants who received so much punishment as old Uncle Tony . 
Fond of her greenhouse , and often in the garden , she was ever at the old gardener's heels . 
Uncle Tony was very religious , and , whenever his mistress flogged him , he invariably gave her a religious exhortation . 
Although unable to read , he , nevertheless , had on his tongue's end portions of Scripture which he could use at any moment . 
Often was he heard to say , O Lord , thou knowest that the white folks are not Christians , but the black people are God's own children . 
But if Tony thought that his old mistress was within the sound of his voice , he launched out into deeper water . 
Let's have a little fun , said the mischievous Marcus to his young companions . 
I will make Uncle Tony believe that I am old mistress , and he'll give us an extra touch in his prayer . 
At that moment , Mark tapped lightly on the door . 
Who's dar ? thundered old Tony . 
The old man commenced and went through with the same remarks addressed to the Lord , when Mark again knocked at the door . 
Who dat dar ? asked Uncle Tony , with a somewhat agitated countenance and trembling voice . 
Still Mark would not reply . 
Mark once more knocked on the door . 
Who dat dar ? thundered Tony at the top of his voice . 
De angel of de Lord , replied Mark , in a somewhat suppressed and sepulchral voice . 
What de angel of de Lord want here ? inquired Tony , as if much frightened . 
He's come for poor old Tony , to take him out of the world , replied Mark , in the same strange voice . 
Dat nigger ain't here he die tree weeks ago , responded Tony , in a still more agitated and frightened tone . 
Mark and his companions made the welkin ring with their shouts at the old man's answer . 
Mark and his companions left the garden , feeling satisfied that Uncle Tony was not as ready to go with de angel of de Lord as he would have others believe . 
The warbling of birds in the green bowers of bliss , which she occasionally heard , brought no tidings of gladness to her . 
Their joy fell cold upon her heart , and seemed like bitter mockery . 
They reminded her of her own cottage , where , with her beloved child , she had spent so many happy days . 
The speculator had kept close watch over his valuable piece of property , for fear that it might damage itself . 
This , however , there was no danger of , for Isabella still hoped and believed that Henry would come to her rescue . 
The secret remorse that rankled in his bosom caused him to see all the world blood shot . 
He had not visited his mother in law since the evening he had given her liberty to use her own discretion as to how Isabella and her child should be disposed of . 
He feared even to go near the house , for he did not wish to see his child . 
Gertrude felt this every time he declined accompanying her to her mother's . 
Possessed of a tender and confiding heart , entirely unlike her mother , she sympathized deeply with her husband . 
Again and again had she noticed the great resemblance between Clotelle and Henry , and she wished the child in better hands than those of her cruel mother . 
At last Gertrude determined to mention the matter to her husband . 
Without a single word , he buried his face in his handkerchief , and burst into tears . 
This made Gertrude still more unhappy , for she feared that he had misunderstood her and she immediately expressed her regret that she had mentioned the subject . 
In the mean time , the slave trader , Jennings , had started for the South with his gang of human cattle , of whom Isabella was one . 
Most quadroon women who are taken to the South are either sold to gentlemen for their own use or disposed of as house servants or waiting maids . 
Fortunately for Isabella , she was sold for the latter purpose . 
Jennings found a purchaser for her in the person of Mr. James French . 
Mrs. French was a severe mistress . 
All who lived with her , though well dressed , were scantily fed and over worked . 
Isabella found her new situation far different from her Virginia cottage life . 
She had frequently heard Vicksburg spoken of as a cruel place for slaves , and now she was in a position to test the truthfulness of the assertion . 
A few weeks after her arrival , Mrs. French began to show to Isabella that she was anything but a pleasant and agreeable mistress . 
Isabella had been with her new mistress but a short time when she was ordered to cut off her long and beautiful hair . 
The negro is naturally fond of dress and outward display . 
He who has short woolly hair combs and oils it to death he who has long hair would sooner have his teeth drawn than to part with it . 
But , however painful it was to Isabella , she was soon seen with her hair cut short , and the sleeves of her dress altered to fit tight to her arms . 
Even with her hair short and with her ill looking dress , Isabella was still handsome . 
Her life had been a secluded one , and though now twenty eight years of age , her beauty had only assumed a quieter tone . 
The other servants only laughed at Isabella's misfortune in losing her beautiful hair . 
Miss 'Bell needn't strut so big she got short nappy har's well's I , said Nell , with a broad grin that showed her teeth . 
She tink she white when she cum here , wid dat long har ob hers , replied Mill . 
Yes , continued Nell , missus make her take down her wool , so she no put it up to day . 
The fairness of Isabella's complexion was regarded with envy by the servants as well as by the mistress herself . 
This is one of the hard features of slavery . 
To day a woman is mistress of her own cottage tomorrow she is sold to one who aims to make her life as intolerable as possible . 
And let it be remembered that the house servant has the best situation a slave can occupy . 
But the degradation and harsh treatment Isabella experienced in her new home was nothing compared to the grief she underwent at being separated from her dear child . 
Taken from her with scarcely a moment's warning , she knew not what had become of her . 
This deep and heartfelt grief of Isabella was soon perceived by her owners , and fearing that her refusal to take proper food would cause her death , they resolved to sell her . 
Mr. French found no difficulty in securing a purchaser for the quadroon woman , for such are usually the most marketable kind of property . 
Isabella was sold at private sale to a young man for a housekeeper but even he had missed his aim . 
Mr. Gordon , the new master , was a man of pleasure . 
At first Mr. Gordon sought to win Isabella's favor by flattery and presents , knowing that whatever he gave her he could take from her again . 
The poor innocent creature dreaded every moment lest the scene should change . 
At every interview with Gordon she stoutly maintained that she had left a husband in Virginia , and could never think of taking another . 
In this she considered that she was truthful , for she had ever regarded Henry as her husband . 
The gold watch and chain and other glittering presents which Gordon gave to her were all kept unused . 
In the same house with Isabella was a man servant who had from time to time hired himself from his master . 
He could feel for Isabella , for he , like her , had been separated from near and dear relatives , and he often tried to console the poor woman . 
One day Isabella observed to him that her hair was growing out again . 
Yes , replied William you look a good deal like a man with your short hair . 
In a moment afterwards , Isabella feared that she had said too much , and laughingly observed , I am always talking some nonsense you must not heed me . 
William was a tall , full blooded African , whose countenance beamed with intelligence . 
He had in his chest about a hundred and fifty dollars . 
His was a heart that felt for others , and he had again and again wiped the tears from his eyes while listening to Isabella's story . 
If she can get free with a little money , why not give her what I have ? thought he , and then resolved to do it . 
There is money enough to take you to England , where you will be free . 
You are much fairer than many of the white women of the South , and can easily pass for a free white woman . 
I will take the money , said she , only on one condition , and that is that I effect your escape , as well as my own . 
How can that be done ? he inquired , eagerly . 
I will assume the disguise of a gentleman , and you that of a servant , and we will thus take passage in a steamer to Cincinnati , and from thence to Canada . 
With full confidence in Isabella's judgment , William consented at once to the proposition . 
With a pair of green glasses over her eyes , in addition to her other disguise , Isabella made quite a gentlemanly appearance . 
To avoid conversation , however , she kept closely to her state room , under the plea of illness . 
Meanwhile , William was playing his part well with the servants . 
He was loudly talking of his master's wealth , and nothing on the boat appeared so good as in his master's fine mansion . 
I don't like dese steamboats , no how , said he I hope when massa goes on anoder journey , he take de carriage and de hosses . 
After a nine days' passage , the Heroine landed at Cincinnati , and Mr. Smith and his servant walked on shore . 
William , you are now a free man , and can go on to Canada , said Isabella I shall go to Virginia , in search of my daughter . 
Taking a boat for Wheeling , Isabella was soon on her way to her native State . 
Several months had elapsed since she left Richmond , and all her thoughts were centred on the fate of her dear Clotelle . 
It was with a palpitating heart that this injured woman entered the stage coach at Wheeling and set out for Richmond . 
CHAPTER XV THE ARREST IT was late in the evening when the coach arrived at Richmond , and Isabella once more alighted in her native city . 
She had intended to seek lodgings somewhere in the outskirts of the town , but the lateness of the hour compelled her to stop at one of the principal hotels for the night . 
True to woman's nature , she had risked her own liberty for another's . 
She remained in the hotel during the night , and the next morning , under the plea of illness , took her breakfast alone . 
That day the fugitive slave paid a visit to the suburbs of the town , and once more beheld the cottage in which she had spent so many happy hours . 
Old remembrances rushed upon her memory and caused her to shed tears freely . 
Three days passed away , and still she remained in the hotel at which she had first put up , and yet she got no tidings of her child . 
Unfortunately for Isabella , a disturbance had just broken out among the slave population in the State of Virginia , and all strangers were treated with suspicion . 
The insurrection to which we now refer was headed by a full blooded negro , who had been born and brought up a slave . 
He had heard the crack of the driver's whip , and seen the warm blood streaming from the negro's body . 
The name of this man was Nat Turner . 
He was a preacher amongst the negroes , distinguished for his eloquence , respected by the whites , loved and venerated by the negroes . 
On the discovery of the plan for the outbreak , Turner fled to the swamps , followed by those who had joined in the insurrection . 
Here the revolted negroes numbered some hundreds , and for a time bade defiance to their oppressors . 
The Dismal Swamps cover many thousand acres of wild land , and a dense forest , with wild animals and insects such as are unknown in any other part of Virginia . 
Here runaway negroes usually seek a hiding place , and some have been known to reside here for years . 
The revolters were joined by one of these . 
His only covering was a girdle around his loins , made of skins of wild beasts which he had killed . 
His only token of authority among those that he led was a pair of epaulettes , made of the tail of a fox , and tied to his shoulder by a cord . 
Brought from the coast of Africa , when only fifteen years of age , to the island of Cuba , he was smuggled from thence into Virginia . 
He had been two years in the swamps , and considered it his future home . 
They had built a cave on a rising mound in the swamp , and this was their home . 
This man's name was Picquilo . 
His only weapon was a sword made from a scythe which he had stolen from a neighboring plantation . 
His dress , his character , his manners , and his mode of fighting were all in keeping with the early training he had received in the land of his birth . 
He moved about with the activity of a cat , and neither the thickness of the trees nor the depth of the water could stop him . 
He was a bold , turbulent spirit and , from motives of revenge , he imbrued his hands in the blood of all the whites he could meet . 
Hunger , thirst , and loss of sleep , he seemed made to endure , as if by peculiarity of constitution . 
His air was fierce , his step oblique , his look sanguinary . 
Such was the character of one of the negroes in the Southampton Insurrection . 
All negroes were arrested who were found beyond their master's threshold , and all white strangers were looked upon with suspicion . 
Such was the position in which Isabella found affairs when she returned to Virginia in search of her child . 
With trembling heart the fugitive handed the key of her trunk to the officers . 
She was immediately conveyed to prison , there to await the orders of her master . 
The arrest of the fugitive was announced in all the newspapers , but created little or no sensation . 
Every day brought news of fresh outbreaks . 
Without scruple and without pity , the whites massacred all blacks found beyond the limits of their owners' plantations . 
The negroes , in return , set fire to houses , and put to death those who attempted to escape from the flames . 
Thus carnage was added to carnage , and the blood of the whites flowed to avenge the blood of the blacks . 
These were the ravages of slavery . 
When the slaves were subdued , except a few in the swamps , bloodhounds were employed to hunt out the remaining revolters . 
CHAPTER XVI DEATH IS FREEDOM ON receiving intelligence of the arrest of Isabella , Mr. Gordon authorized the sheriff to sell her to the highest bidder . 
She was , therefore , sold the purchaser being the noted negro trader , Hope H. Slater , who at once placed her in prison . 
She had seen or heard nothing of her daughter while in Richmond , and all hopes of seeing her had now fled . 
Thither the poor fugitive directed her flight . 
So unexpected was her escape that she had gained several rods the start before the keeper had secured the other prisoners , and rallied his assistants to aid in the pursuit . 
that the panting fugitive might escape , and the merciless soul dealer for once be disappointed of his prey . 
Already her heart began to beat high with the hope of success . 
But God , by his providence , had otherwise determined . 
Just as the pursuers passed the high draw , soon after entering upon the bridge , they beheld three men slowly approaching from the Virginia side . 
They immediately called to them to arrest the fugitive , proclaiming her a runaway slave . 
True to their Virginia instincts , as she came near , they formed a line across the narrow bridge to intercept her . 
Seeing the escape was impossible in that quarter , she stopped suddenly , and turned upon her pursuers . 
On came the profane and ribald crew faster than ever , already exulting in her capture , and threatening punishment for her flight . 
For a moment she looked wildly and anxiously around to see if there was no hope of escape . 
On either hand , far down below , rolled the deep , foaming waters of the Potomac , and before and behind were the rapidly approaching steps and noisy voices of her pursuers . 
Seeing how vain would be any further effort to escape , her resolution was instantly taken . 
Now twelve years of age , and more than usually well developed , her harsh old mistress began to view her with a jealous eye . 
It was on a beautiful evening , just at twilight , while seated at his parlor window , that Henry saw a young woman pass by and go into the kitchen . 
Not aware of ever having seen the person before , he made an errand into the cook's department to see who the girl was . 
He , however , met her in the hall , as she was about going out . 
Whom did you wish to see ? he inquired . 
Miss Gertrude , was the reply . 
What did you want to see her for ? he again asked . 
My mistress told me to give her and Master Henry her compliments , and ask them to come over and spend the evening . 
Who is your mistress ? he eagerly inquired . 
Mrs. Miller , sir , responded the girl . 
And what's your name ? asked Henry , with a trembling voice . 
Clotelle , sir , was the reply . 
It was then that he saw his own and Isabella's features combined in the beautiful face that he was then beholding . 
He could stand it no longer . 
Tears rushed to his eyes , and turning upon his heel , he went back to his own room . 
It was then that Isabella was revenged and she no doubt looked smilingly down from her home in the spirit land on the scene below . 
On Gertrude's return from her shopping tour , she found Henry in a melancholy mood , and soon learned its cause . 
It was nearly a week after the poor girl had been so severely whipped and for no cause whatever , that her father learned on the circumstance through one of the servants . 
With a degree of boldness unusual for him , he immediately went to his mother in law and demanded his child . 
But it was too late , she was gone . 
To what place she had been sent no one could tell , and Mrs. Miller refused to give any information whatever relative to the girl . 
Just at that moment could be seen a stout man with his face fitted with the small pox , making his way up to the above mentioned gentleman . 
You have the advantage of me , sir , replied the tall man . 
Why , don't you know me ? My name is Jennings I sold you a splendid negro woman some years ago . 
Yes , yes , answered the Natchez man . 
I remember you now , for the woman died in a few months , and I never got the worth of my money out of her . 
I could not help that , returned the slave trader she was as sound as a roach when I sold her to you . 
I am your man , said Jennings , just follow me , continued he , and I will show you the fairest little critter you ever saw . 
And the two passed to the stern of the boat to where the trader had between fifty and sixty slaves , the greater portion being women . 
There , said Jennings , as a beautiful young woman shrunk back with modesty . 
There , sir , is the very gal that was made for you . 
If she had been made to your order , she could not have suited you better . 
Indeed , sir , is not that young woman white ? inquired the parson . 
Oh , no , sir she is no whiter than you see ! But is she a slave ? asked the preacher . 
Yes , said the trader , I bought her in Richmond , and she comes from an excellent family . 
But she resembles in some respect Agnes , the woman I bought from you , said Mr. Wilson . 
As he said the name of Agnes , the young woman started as if she had been struck . 
Her pulse seemed to quicken , but her face alternately flushed and turned pale , and tears trembled upon her eyelids . 
It was a name she had heard her mother mention , and it brought to her memory those days , those happy days , when she was so loved and caressed . 
This young woman was Clotelle , the granddaughter of Agnes . 
The preacher , on learning the fact , purchased her , and took her home , feeling that his daughter Georgiana would prize her very highly . 
Like her mother fond of flowers , the Virginia Maid , as she was sometimes called , spent many of her leisure hours in the garden . 
Beside the flowers which sprang up from the fertility of soil unplanted and unattended , there was the heliotrope , sweet pea , and cup rose , transplanted from the island of Cuba . 
In her new home Clotelle found herself saluted on all sides by the fragrance of the magnolia . 
When she went with her young mistress to the Poplar Farm , as she sometimes did , nature's wild luxuriance greeted her , wherever she cast her eyes . 
The rustling citron , lime , and orange , shady mango with its fruits of gold , and the palmetto's umbrageous beauty , all welcomed the child of sorrow . 
But she shrank from his looks as she would have done from the charm of the rattlesnake . 
The negro driver always tried to insinuate himself into the good opinion of Georgiana and the company that she brought . 
Knowing that Miss Wilson at heart hated slavery , he was ever trying to show that the slaves under his charge were happy and contented . 
Of course , the overseer was not at all elated with the sentiment contained in Jack's toast . 
Mr. Wilson had lately purchased a young man to assist about the house and to act as coachman . 
His features were not bad , lips thin , nose prominent , hands and feet small . 
His brilliant black eyes lighted up his whole countenance . 
His hair , which was nearly straight , hung in curls upon his lofty brow . 
George Combe or Fowler would have selected his head for a model . 
He was brave and daring , strong in person , fiery in spirit , yet kind and true in his affections , earnest in his doctrines . 
Clotelle had been at the parson's but a few weeks when it was observed that a mutual feeling had grown up between her and Jerome . 
As time rolled on , they became more and more attached to each other . 
After satisfying herself that these two really loved , Georgiana advised their marriage . 
But Jerome contemplated his escape at some future day , and therefore feared that if married it might militate against it . 
He hoped , also , to be able to get Clotelle away too , and it was this hope that kept him from trying to escape by himself . 
Dante did not more love his Beatrice , Swift his Stella , Waller his Saccharissa , Goldsmith his Jessamy bride , or Burns his Mary , than did Jerome his Clotelle . 
Unknown to her father , Miss Wilson could permit these two slaves to enjoy more privileges than any of the other servants . 
The young mistress taught Clotelle , and the latter imparted her instructions to her lover , until both could read so as to be well understood . 
Jerome felt his superiority , and always declared that no master should ever flog him . 
Aware of his high spirit and determination , Clotelle was in constant fear lest some difficulty might arise between her lover and his master . 
One day Mr. Wilson , being somewhat out of temper and irritated at what he was pleased to call Jerome's insolence , ordered him to follow him to the barn to be flogged . 
The young slave obeyed his master , but those who saw him at the moment felt that he would not submit to be whipped . 
This was too much for a white man to stand from a negro , and the preacher seized his slave by the throat , intending to choke him . 
But for once he found his match . 
Jerome knocked him down , and then escaped through the back yard to the street , and from thence to the woods . 
Recovering somewhat from the effect of his fall , the parson regained his feet and started in pursuit of the fugitive . 
Finding , however , that the slave was beyond his reach , he at once resolved to put the dogs on his track . 
These dogs will attack a negro at their master's bidding and cling to him as the bull dog will cling to a beast . 
Many are the speculations as to whether the negro will be secured alive or dead , when these dogs once get on his track . 
Whenever there is to be a negro hunt , there is no lack of participants . 
Many go to enjoy the fun which it is said they derive from these scenes . 
The company had been in the woods but a short time ere they go on the track of two fugitives , once of whom was Jerome . 
The slaves immediately bent their steps toward the swamp , with the hope that the dogs , when put upon their scent would be unable to follow them through the water . 
The slaves then took a straight course for the Baton Rouge and Bayou Sara road , about four miles distant . 
Nearer and nearer the whimpering pack pressed their delusion begins to dispel . 
They at last reach the river , and in the negroes plunge , followed by the catch dog . 
Jerome is caught and is once more in the hands of his master , while the other poor fellow finds a watery grave . 
They return , and the preacher sends his slave to jail . 
The poor girl well knew that he would be caught , and that severe punishment , if not death , would be the result of his capture . 
It was therefore with a heart filled with the deepest grief that the slave girl heard the footsteps of her master on his return from the chase . 
The dogged and stern manner of the preacher forbade even his daughter inquiring as to the success of his pursuit . 
But the news of the capture of Jerome soon spread through the parson's household , and found its way to the ears of the weeping and heart stricken Clotelle . 
We had better let the court decide the question . 
Moreover , as a Christian and God fearing people , we ought to submit to the dictates of justice . 
Should we take this man's life by force , an Allwise Providence would hold us responsible for the act . 
The company then quietly withdrew , showing that the preacher had some influence with his people . 
This , said Mr. Wilson , when left alone with his daughter , this , my dear Georgiana , is the result of your kindness to the negroes . 
You have spoiled every one about the house . 
I can't whip one of them , without being in danger of having my life taken . 
I am sure , papa , replied the young lady , I am sure I never did any thing intentionally to induce any of the servants to disobey your orders . 
No , my dear , said Mr. Wilson , but you are too kind to them . 
Now , there is Clotelle , that girl is completely spoiled . 
She walks about the house with as dignified an air as if she was mistress of the premises . 
By and by you will be sorry for this foolishness of yours . 
But , answered Georgiana , Clotelle has a superior mind , and God intended her to hold a higher position in life than that of a servant . 
Yes , my dear , and it was your letting her know that she was intended for a better station in society that is spoiling her . 
Always keep a negro in ignorance of what you conceive to be his abilities , returned the parson . 
The minister informed her that such was the decision of the court . 
Then , said she , Clotelle will die of grief . 
What business has she to die of grief ? returned the father , his eyes at the moment flashing fire . 
She has neither eaten nor slept since he was captured , replied Georgiana and I am certain that she will not live through this . 
I cannot be disturbed now , said the parson I must get my sermon ready for to morrow . 
I expect to have some strangers to preach to , and must , therefore , prepare a sermon that will do me credit . 
While the man of God spoke , he seemed to say to himself , With devotion's visage , and pious actions , We do sugar over the devil himself . 
Georgiana did all in her power to soothe the feelings of Clotelle , and to induce her to put her trust in God . 
Thus the time passed on , and the day was fast approaching when the slave was to die . 
He accordingly visited the prison to see if he could learn anything from him , but all to no purpose . 
Having given up all hopes of escape , Jerome had resolved to die like a brave man . 
Life , answered the doomed man , is worth nought to a slave . 
My liberty is of as much consequence to me as Mr. Wilson's is to him . 
I am as sensitive to feeling as he . 
I am free to say that , could I live my life over again , I would use all the energies which God has given me to get up an insurrection . 
Every one present seemed startled and amazed at the intelligence with which this descendant of Africa spoke . 
He's a very dangerous man , remarked one . 
Yes , said another , he got some book learning somewhere , and that has spoiled him . 
An effort was then made to learn from Jerome where he had learned to read , but the black refused to give any information on the subject . 
The sun was just going down behind the trees as Clotelle entered the prison to see Jerome for the last time . 
He was to die on the next day . 
Her face was bent upon her hands , and the gushing tears were forcing their way through her fingers . 
With beating heart and trembling hands , evincing the deepest emotion , she threw her arms around her lover's neck and embraced him . 
Dress yourself in my clothes , said she , and you can easily pass the jailer . 
This Jerome at first declined doing . 
Clotelle being very tall , it was not probably that the jailer would discover any difference in them . 
At this moment , she took from her pocket a bunch of keys and unfastened the padlock , and freed him from the floor . 
Come , girl , it is time for you to go , said the jailer , as Jerome was holding the almost fainting girl by the hand . 
CHAPTER XX THE HERO OF MANY ADVENTURES JEROME had scarcely passed the prison gates , ere he reproached himself for having taken such a step . 
He was on the eve of returning , when he thought of the last words uttered by Clotelle . 
Be brave and determined , and you will still be free . 
The words sounded like a charm in his ears and he went boldly forward . 
Clotelle had provided a suit of men's clothes and had placed them where her lover could get them , if he should succeed in getting out . 
Returning to Mr. Wilson's barn , the fugitive changed his apparel , and again retraced his steps into the street . 
To remain in the city would be a suicidal step . 
The deep sound of the escape of steam from a boat , which was at that moment ascending the river , broke upon the ears of the slave . 
Bound for Louisville , said the captain , to one who was making inquiries . 
As the passengers were rushing on board , Jerome followed them , and proceeding to where some of the hands were stowing away bales of goods , he took hold and aided them . 
Once in the hull among the boxes , the slave concealed himself . 
Weary hours , and at last days , passed without either water or food with the hidden slave . 
More than once did he resolve to let his case be known but the knowledge that he would be sent back to Natchez kept him from doing so . 
At last , with lips parched and fevered to a crisp , the poor man crawled out into the freight room , and began wandering about . 
The hatches were on , and the room dark . 
There happened to be on board a wedding party , and a box , containing some ofthe bridal cake , with several bottles of port wine , was near Jerome . 
He found the box , opened it , and helped himself . 
In eight days , the boat tied up at the wharf at the place of her destination . 
It was late at night the boat's crew , with the single exception of the man on watch , were on shore . 
The hatches were off , and the fugitive quietly made his way on deck and jumped on shore . 
The man saw the fugitive , but too late to seize him . 
Still in a Slave State , Jerome was at a loss to know how he should proceed . 
He had with him a few dollars , enough to pay his way to Canada , if he could find a conveyance . 
Keeping near the Ohio River , Jerome soon found an opportunity to cross over into the State of Indiana . 
But liberty was a mere name in the latter State , and the fugitive learned , from some colored persons that he met , that it was not safe to travel by daylight . 
In vain did Jerome tell them that he was not a slave . 
By this misrepresentation , the fugitive hoped to have another chance of getting away . 
Allured with the prospect of a large sum of the needful , the slave catchers started back with their victim . 
The white men were late in retiring to rest , after an evening spent in drinking . 
For once , thought he , the brandy bottle has done a noble work . 
With palpitating heart and trembling limbs , he viewed his position . 
The door was fast , but the warm weather had compelled them to leave the window open . 
If he could but get his chains off , he might escape through the window to the piazza . 
The sleepers' clothes hung upon chairs by the bedside . 
The slave thought of the padlock key , examined the pockets , and found it . 
The chains were soon off , and the negro stealthily making his way to the window . 
He stopped , and said to himself , These men are villains they are enemies to all who , like me , are trying to be free . 
The sun had just begun to show itself , when the fugitive was astounded at seeing behind him , in the distance , two men upon horseback . 
It was too late to turn back . 
The kidnappers were behind him strange men before him . 
Those in the rear he knew to be enemies , while he had no idea of what principles were the farmers . 
The latter also saw the white men coming , and called to the fugitive to come that way . 
The broad brimmed hats that the farmers wore told the slave that they were Quakers . 
Jerome had seen some of these people passing up and down the river , when employed on a steamer between Natchez and New Orleans , and had heard that they disliked slavery . 
He , therefore , hastened toward the drab coated men , who , on his approach , opened the barn door , and told him to run in . 
The can't enter my premises , said one of the Friends , in rather a musical voice . 
The negro catchers urged their claim to the slave , and intimated that , unless they were allowed to secure him , they would force their way in . 
By this time , several other Quakers had gathered around the barn door . 
After some talk , the men in drab promised to admit the hunters , provided they procured an officer and a search warrant from a justice of the peace . 
One of the slave catchers was left to see that the fugitive did not get away , while the others went in pursuit of an officer . 
In the mean time , the owner of the barn sent for a hammer and nails , and began nailing up the barn door . 
After an hour in search of the man of the law , they returned with an officer and a warrant . 
The Quaker demanded to see the paper , and , after looking at it for some time , called to his son to go into the house for his glasses . 
It was a long time before Aunt Ruth found the leather case , and when she did , the glasses wanted wiping before they could be used . 
After comfortably adjusting them on his nose , he read the warrant over leisurely . 
Come , Mr. Dugdale , we can't wait all day , said the officer . 
Well , will thee read it for me ? returned the Quaker . 
The officer complied , and the man in drab said , Yes , thee may go in , now . 
I am inclined to throw no obstacles in the way of the execution of the law of the land . 
On approaching the door , the men found some forty or fifty nails in it , in the way of their progress . 
Lend me your hammer and a chisel , if you please , Mr. Dugdale , said the officer . 
Please read that paper over again , will thee ? asked the Quaker . 
The officer once more read the warrant . 
I see nothing there which says I must furnish thee with tools to open my door . 
If thee wants a hammer , thee must go elsewhere for it I tell thee plainly , thee can't have mine . 
The implements for opening the door are at length obtained , and , after another half hour , the slave catchers are in the barn . 
Three hours is a long time for a slave to be in the hands of Quakers . 
The hay is turned over , and the barn is visited in every part but still the runaway is not found . 
The nigger is not in this barn , said the officer . 
I know he is not , quietly answered the Quaker . 
What were you nailing up your door for , then , as if you were afraid we would enter ? inquired one of the kidnappers . 
I can do what I please with my own door , can't I , said the Quaker . 
It was now late in the morning , and the slave catchers were a long way from home , and the horses were jaded by the rapid manner in which they had travelled . 
CHAPTER XXI SELF SACRIFICE NOW in her seventeenth year , Clotelle's personal appearance presented a great contrast to the time when she lived with old Mrs. Miller . 
At times , there was a heavenly smile upon her countenance , which would have warmed the heart of an anchorite . 
Such was the personal appearance of the girl who was now in prison by her own act to save the life of another . 
Would she be hanged in his stead , or would she receive a different kind of punishment ? These questions Clotelle did not ask herself . 
Open , frank , free , and generous to a fault , she always thought of others , never of her own welfare . 
While the clock on the church near by was striking eleven , Georgiana called Sam , and sent him to the prison in search of Clotelle . 
The girl went away from here at eight o'clock , was the jailer's answer to the servant's inquiries . 
The return of Sam without having found the girl saddened the heart of the young mistress . 
Sure , then , said she , the poor , heartbroken thing has made way with herself . 
Still , she waited till morning before breaking the news of Clotelle's absence to her father . 
On learning , in the morning , that Clotelle was in jail dressed in male attire , Miss Wilson immediately sent clothes to her to make a change in her attire . 
News of the heroic and daring act of the slave girl spread through the city with electric speed . 
Poor Georgiana wept for the safety of Clotelle , while she felt glad that Jerome had escaped . 
In vain did they try to extort from the girl the whereabouts of the man whose escape she had effected . 
She was not aware that he had fled on a steamer , and when questioned , she replied , I don't know and if I did I would not tell you . 
I care not what you do with me , if Jerome but escapes . 
Her sweet simplicity seemed to dare them to lay their rough hands amid her trembling curls . 
Three days did the heroic young woman remain in prison , to be gazed at by an unfeeling crowd , drawn there out of curiosity . 
This order of the court she would have cared but little for , had she not been sincerely attached to her young mistress . 
Do try and sell her to some one who will use her well , said Georgiana to her father , as he was about taking his hat to leave the house . 
I shall not trouble myself to do any such thing , replied the hard hearted parson . 
I leave the finding of a master for her with the slave dealer . 
Bathed in tears , Miss Wilson paced her room in the absence of her father . 
For many months Georgiana had been in a decline , and any little trouble would lay her on a sick bed for days . 
She was , therefore , poorly able to bear the loss of this companion , whom she so dearly loved . 
The servants placed their mistress on the sofa , and went in pursuit of their master . 
Little did the preacher think , on returning to his daughter , that he should soon be bereft of her yet such was to be his lot . 
A blood vessel had been ruptured , and the three physicians who were called in told the father that he must prepare to lose his child . 
That moral courage and calmness , which was her great characteristic , did not forsake Georgiana in her hour of death . 
She had ever been kind to the slaves under her charge , and they loved and respected her . 
At her request , the servants were all brought into her room , and took a last farewell of their mistress . 
Seldom , if ever , was there witnessed a more touching scene than this . 
Some were upon their knees at the bedside , others standing around , and all weeping . 
Death is a leveler and neither age , sex , wealth , nor condition , can avert when he is permitted to strike . 
The most beautiful flowers must soon fade and droop and die . 
So , also , with man his days are as uncertain as the passing breeze . 
This hour he glows in the blush of health and vigor , but the next , he may be counted with the number no more known on earth . 
Oh , what a silence pervaded the house when this young flower was gone ! In the midst of the buoyancy of youth , this cherished one had dropped and died . 
The speculator had brought her , but had postponed her removal till she should recover . 
Her benefactress was dead , and Hope withering fled , and mercy sighed farewell . 
Is Jerome safe ? she would ask herself continually . 
It was more than a fortnight before the slave trader could take his prize to more comfortable quarters . 
The bells of thirty churches were calling the people to the different places of worship . 
Baptists immersed , Presbyterians sprinkled , Methodists shouted , and Episcopalians read their prayers , while ministers of the various sects preached that Christ died for all . 
The chiming of the bells seemed to mock the sighs and deep groans of the forty human beings then incarcerated in the slave pen . 
These imprisoned children of God were many of them Methodists , some Baptists , and others claiming to believe in the faith of the Presbyterians and Episcopalians . 
Oh , with what anxiety did these creatures await the close of that Sabbath , and the dawn of another day , that should deliver them from those dismal and close cells . 
Slowly the day passed away , and once more the evening breeze found its way through the barred windows of the prison that contained these injured sons and daughters of America . 
The clock on the calaboose had just struck nine on Monday morning , when hundreds of persons were seen threading the gates and doors of the negro pen . 
It was the same gang that had the day previous been stepping to the tune and keeping time with the musical church bells . 
Their Bibles were not with them , their prayer books were left at home , and even their long and solemn faces had been laid aside for the week . 
They had come to the man market to make their purchases . 
Methodists were in search of their brethren . 
Baptists were looking for those that had been immersed , while Presbyterians were willing to buy fellow Christians , whether sprinkled or not . 
The crowd was soon gazing at and feasting their eyes upon the lovely features of Clotelle . 
She is handsomer , muttered one to himself , than the lady that sat in the pew next to me yesterday . 
I would that my daughter was half so pretty , thinks a second . 
Groups are seen talking in every part of the vast building , and the topic on 'Change , is the beautiful quadroon . 
As he turns upon his heel he takes out his white handkerchief and wipes his eyes . 
It may be that he has lost a sister , a mother , or some dear one to whom he was betrothed . 
Again he comes , and the quadroon hides her face . 
She has heard that foreigners make bad masters , and she shuns his piercing gaze . 
Again he goes away and then returns . 
He takes a last look and then walks hurriedly off . 
The day wears away , but long before the time of closing the sale the tall young man once more enters the slave pen . 
Having entered a military school in Paris when quite young , and soon after been sent with the French army to India , Antoine Devenant had never dabbled in matters of love . 
The unequalled beauty of Clotelle had dazzled his eyes , and every look that she gave was a dagger that went to his heart . 
He felt a shortness of breath , his heart palpitated , his head grew dizzy , and his limbs trembled but he knew not its cause . 
This was the first stage of love at first sight . 
He who bows to the shrine of beauty when beckoned by this mysterious agent seldom regrets it . 
Devenant reproached himself for not having made inquiries concerning the girl before he left the market in the morning . 
His stay in the city was to be short , and the yellow fever was raging , which caused him to feel like making a still earlier departure . 
The disease appeared in a form unusually severe and repulsive . 
It seized its victims from amongst the most healthy of the citizens . 
The disorder began in the brain by oppressive pain accompanied or followed by fever . 
Fiery veins streaked the eye , the face was inflamed and dyed of a dark dull red color the ears from time to time rang painfully . 
Now mucous secretions surcharged the tongue and took away the power of speech now the sick one spoke , but in speaking had foresight of death . 
When the violence of the disease approached the heart , the gums were blackened . 
The progress of the fever within was marked by yellowish spots , which spread over the surface of the body . 
If then , a happy crisis came not , all hope was gone . 
From each side of the mouth , spread foam tinged with black and burnt blood . 
Blue streaks mingled with the yellow all over the frame . 
This was the yellow fever . 
The disorder spread alarm and confusion throughout the city . 
On an average more than four hundred died daily . 
In the midst of disorder and confusion , death heaped victims on victims . 
Friend followed friend in quick succession . 
The sick were avoided from the fear of contagion , and for the same reason the dead were left unburied . 
Nearly two thousand dead bodies lay uncovered in the burial ground , with only here and there a little lime thrown over them , to prevent the air becoming infected . 
The negro , whose home is in a hot climate , was not proof against the disease . 
Many plantations had to suspend their work for want of slaves to take the places of those who had been taken off by the fever . 
Clotelle looked around wildly as she passed through the hall into the presence of her new mistress . 
Mrs. Taylor was much pleased with her servant's appearance , and congratulated her husband on his judicious choice . 
But , said Mrs. Taylor , after Clotelle had gone into the kitchen , how much she looks like Miss Jane Morton . 
Indeed , replied the husband , I thought , the moment I saw her that she looked like the Mortons . 
I am sure I never saw two faces more alike in my life , than that girl's and Jane Morton's , continued Mrs. Taylor . 
Every one spoke of Clotelle's close resemblance to the Mortons , and especially to the eldest daughter . 
Indeed , two sisters could hardly have been more alike . 
The large , dark eyes , black , silk like hair , tall , graceful figure , and mould of the face , were the same . 
She is far above the station of a slave , remarked the lady . 
I saw her , last night , when removing some books , open on and stand over it a moment as if she was reading and she is as white as I am . 
I am almost sorry you bought her . 
At this juncture the front door bell rang , and Clotelle hurried through the room to answer it . 
Miss Morton , said the servant as she returned to the mistress' room . 
Ask her to walk in , responded the mistress . 
Now , my dear , said Mrs. Taylor to her husband , just look and see if you do not notice a marked resemblance between the countenances of Jane and Clotelle . 
Miss Morton entered the room just as Mrs. Taylor ceased speaking . 
Have you heard that the Jamisons are down with the fever ? inquired the young lady , after asking about the health of the Taylors . 
No , I had not I was in hopes it would not get into our street , replied Mrs. Taylor . 
Every hour brought fresh news of the ravages of the fever , and the Taylors commenced preparing to leave town . 
As Mr. Taylor could not go at once , it was determined that his wife should leave without him , accompanied by her new maid servant . 
Just as Mrs. Taylor and Clotelle were stepping into the carriage , they were informed that Dr . 
Morton was down with the epidemic . 
Every berth in the boat was occupied by persons fleeing from the fearful contagion that was carrying off its hundreds daily . 
She turned hastily away , but the heated cabin and the want of fresh air soon drove her again to the window . 
The young gentleman again appeared , and coming to the end of the saloon , spoke to the slave girl in broken English . 
This confirmed her in her previous opinion that he was a foreigner , and she rejoiced that she had not fallen into his hands . 
I want to talk with you , said the stranger . 
What do you want with me ? she inquired . 
I am your friend , he answered . 
I saw you in the slave market last week , and regretted that I did not speak to you then . 
I returned in the evening , but you was gone . 
I intended to buy you and make you free and happy , but I was too late , continued he . 
Why do you wish to make me free ? inquired the girl . 
Clotelle had all along suspected that the man was a knave , and this profession of love at once confirmed her in that belief . 
She therefore immediately turned away and left him . 
Why persist in your wish to talk with me ? she said , as he again advanced and spoke to her . 
I wish to purchase you and make you happy , returned he . 
But I am not for sale now , she replied . 
My present mistress will not sell me , and if you wished to do so ever so much you could not . 
Then , said he , if I cannot buy you , when the steamer reaches Mobile , fly with me , and you shall be free . 
I cannot do it , said Clotelle and she was just leaving the stranger when he took from his pocket a piece of paper and thrust it into her hand . 
After returning to her room , she unfolded the paper , and found , to her utter astonishment that it contained a one hundred dollar note on the Bank of the United States . 
Again , therefore , Clotelle seated herself by the window , and again the stranger presented himself . 
Would that I could understand you , said the slave . 
Believe that I am sincere , and then you will understand me , returned the young man . 
Would you rather be a slave than be free ? inquired he , with tears that glistened in the rays of the moon . 
No , said she , I want my freedom , but I must live a virtuous life . 
Then , if you would be free and happy , go with me . 
We shall be in Mobile in two hours , and when the passengers are going on shore , you take my arm . 
Have your face covered with a veil , and you will not be observed . 
We will take passage immediately for France you can pass as my sister , and I pledge you my honor that I will marry you as soon as we arrive in France . 
This solemn promise , coupled with what had previously been said , gave Clotelle confidence in the man , and she instantly determined to go with him . 
However , the thought of freedom in the future outweighed this danger , and her resolve was taken . 
The ships which Mobile for Europe lie about thirty miles down the bay , and passengers are taken down from the city in small vessels . 
This was Antoine Devenant and Clotelle . 
CHAPTER XXIV THE LAW AND ITS VICTIM THE death of Dr . 
Morton , on the third day of his illness , came like a shock upon his wife and daughters . 
The corpse had scarcely been committed to its mother earth before new and unforeseen difficulties appeared to them . 
By the laws of the Slave States , the children follow the condition of their mother . 
If the mother is free , the children are free if a slave , the children are slaves . 
Being unacquainted with the Southern code , and no one presuming that Marion had any negro blood in her veins , Dr . 
Morton had not given the subject a single thought . 
The woman whom he loved and regarded as his wife was , after all , nothing more than a slave by the laws of the State . 
What would have been his feelings had he known that at his death his wife and children would be considered as his property ? Yet such was the case . 
Like most men of means at that time , Dr . 
Morton was deeply engaged in speculation , and though generally considered wealthy , was very much involved in his business affairs . 
After the disease with which Dr . 
Morton had so suddenly died had to some extent subsided , Mr. James Morton , a brother of the deceased , went to New Orleans to settle up the estate . 
The girls themselves had never heard that their mother had been a slave , and therefore knew nothing of the danger hanging over their heads . 
An inventory of the property of the deceased was made out by Mr. Morton , and placed in the hands of the creditors . 
Mr. Morton was overwhelmed with horror at the idea of his nieces being claimed as slaves , and asked for time , that he might save them from such a fate . 
He even offered to mortgage his little farm in Vermont for the amount which young slave women of their ages would fetch . 
But the creditors pleaded that they were an extra article , and would sell for more than common slaves , and must therefore be sold at auction . 
The uncle was therefore compelled to give them up to the officers of the law , and they were separated from him . 
Jane , the oldest of the girls , as we have before mentioned , was very handsome , bearing a close resemblance to her cousin Clotelle . 
Alreka , though not as handsome as her sister , was nevertheless a beautiful girl , and both had all the accomplishments that wealth and station could procure . 
Though only in her fifteen year , Alreka had become strongly attached to Volney Lapie , a young Frenchman , a student in her father's office . 
This attachment was reciprocated , although the poverty of the young man and the extreme youth of the girl had caused their feelings to be kept from the young lady's parents . 
His hope , however , was in vain . 
After a fierce contest between the bidders , the girls were sold , one for two thousand three hundred , and the other for two thousand three hundred and fifty dollars . 
Had these girls been bought for servants only , they would in all probability have brought not more than nine hundred or a thousand dollars each . 
The mother , who was also to have been sold , happily followed her husband to the grave , and was spared the pangs of a broken heart . 
The seizure of the young ladies as slaves was the result of the administrator's having found among Dr . 
Morton's papers the bill of sale of Marion which he had taken when he purchased her . 
He had doubtless intended to liberate her when he married her , but had neglected from time to time to have the proper papers made out . 
Sad was the result of this negligence . 
CHAPTER XXV THE FLIGHT ON once gaining the wharf , Devenant and Clotelle found no difficulty in securing an immediate passage to France . 
The fine packet ship Utica lay down the bay , and only awaited the return of the lighter that night to complete her cargo and list of passengers , ere she departed . 
The young Frenchman therefore took his prize on board , and started for the ship . 
Daylight was just making its appearance the next morning when the Utica weighed anchor and turned her prow toward the sea . 
In the course of three hours , the vessel , with outspread sails , was rapidly flying from land . 
Everything appeared to be auspicious . 
The skies were beautifully clear , and the sea calm , with a sun that dazzled the whole scene . 
But clouds soon began to chase each other through the heavens , and the sea became rough . 
It was then that Clotelle felt that there was hoped of escaping . 
She had hitherto kept in the cabin , but now she expressed a wish to come on deck . 
The hanging clouds were narrowing the horizon to a span , and gloomily mingling with the rising surges . 
The old and grave looking seamen shook their weather wise heads as if foretelling a storm . 
As Clotelle came on deck , she strained her eyes in vain to catch a farewell view of her native land . 
His finely cut , classic features wore the aspect of one possessed with a large and noble heart . 
Once more the beautiful Clotelle whispered in the ear of her lover , Away , away , o'er land and sea , America is now no home for me . 
The winds increased with nightfall , and impenetrable gloom surrounded the ship . 
The prospect was too uncheering , even to persons in love . 
His tall , slender figure and fine countenance bespoke for him at first sight one's confidence . 
That he was sincerely and deeply enamored of Clotelle all could see . 
The weather became still more squally . 
The wind rushed through the white , foaming waves , and the ship groaned with its own wild and ungovernable labors , while nothing could be seen but the wild waste of waters . 
The scene was indeed one of fearful sublimity . 
Day came and went without any abatement of the storm . 
Despair was now on every countenance . 
Occasionally a vivid flash of lightning would break forth and illuminate the black and boiling surges that surrounded the vessel , which was now scudding before the blast under bare poles . 
After five days of most intensely stormy weather , the sea settled down into a dead calm , and the passengers flocked on deck . 
During the last three days of the storm , Clotelle had been so unwell as to be unable to raise her head . 
Her pale face and quivering lips and languid appearance made her look as if every pulsation had ceased . 
Her magnificent large and soft eyes , fringed with lashes as dark as night , gave her an angelic appearance . 
The unreserved attention of Devenant , even when sea sick himself , did much to increase the little love that the at first distrustful girl had placed in him . 
At first she respected Devenant for the love he manifested for her , and for his apparent willingness to make any sacrifice for her welfare . 
True , this was an adventure upon which she had risked her all , and should her heart be foiled in this search for hidden treasures , her affections would be shipwrecked forever . 
She felt under great obligations to the man who had thus effected her escape , and that noble act alone would entitle him to her love . 
Each day became more pleasant as the noble ship sped onward amid the rippled spray . 
The whistling of the breeze through the rigging was music to the ear , and brought gladness to the heart of every one on board . 
At last , the long suspense was broken by the appearance of land , at which all hearts leaped for joy . 
It was a beautiful morning in October . 
The sun had just risen , and sky and earth were still bathed in his soft , rosy glow , when the Utica hauled into the dock at Bordeaux . 
After getting their baggage cleared from the custom house and going to a hotel , Devenant made immediate arrangements for the marriage . 
Clotelle , on arriving at the church where the ceremony was to take place , was completely overwhelmed at the spectacle . 
She had never beheld a scene so gorgeous as this . 
At the conclusion of the ceremony , the loud and solemn peals of the organ's swelling anthem were lost to all in the contemplation of the interesting scene . 
The happy couple set out at once for Dunkirk , the residence of the bridegroom's parents . 
In due course of time they left for India , passing through Paris and Lyons , taking ship at Marseilles . 
In all of these positions , Clotelle sustained herself in a most ladylike manner . 
At Lyons , they visited the vast factories and other public works , and all was pleasure with them . 
The voyage from Marseilles to Calcutta was very pleasant , as the weather was exceedingly fine . 
This was indeed a great change for Clotelle . 
Six months had not elapsed since her exposure in the slave market of New Orleans . 
This life is a stage , and we are indeed all actors . 
When out of present danger , fearing that suspicion might be aroused if he continued on the road in open day , Jerome buried himself in a thick , dark forest until nightfall . 
Wearily and alone , with nothing but the hope of safety before him to cheer him on his way , the poor fugitive urged his tired and trembling limbs forward for several nights . 
It was late in the evening when the fugitive slave arrived at a small town on the banks of Lake Erie , where he was to remain over night . 
The alarm of fire aroused the inmates of the hotel in which Jerome had sought shelter for the night from the deep sleep into which they had fallen . 
The whole village was buried in slumber , and the building was half consumed before the frightened inhabitants had reached the scene of the conflagration . 
The wind was high , and the burning embers were wafted like so many rockets through the sky . 
The whole town was lighted up , and the cries of women and children in the streets made the scene a terrific one . 
Jerome heard the alarm , and hastily dressing himself , he went forth and hastened toward the burning building . 
The broad sheets of fire were flying in the direction of the chamber in which the child was sleeping , and all hope of its being saved seemed gone . 
Occasionally the wind would life the pall of smoke , and show that the work of destruction was not yet complete . 
At last a long ladder was brought , and one end placed under the window of the room . 
A moment more and a bystander mounted the ladder and ascended in haste to the window . 
The smoke met him as he raised the sash , and he cried out , All is lost ! and returned to the ground without entering the room . 
Another sweep of the wind showed that the destroying element had not yet made its final visit to that part of the doomed building . 
The mother , seeing that all hope of again meeting her child in this world was gone , wrung her hands and seemed inconsolable with grief . 
At this juncture , a man was seen to mount the ladder , and ascend with great rapidity . 
All eyes were instantly turned to the figure of this unknown individual as it disappeared in the cloud of smoke escaping from the window . 
Another cheer and then another , made the welkin ring , as the stranger , with hair burned and eyebrows closely singed , fainted at the foot of the ladder . 
But the child was saved . 
As soon as he revived , he shrunk from every eye , as if he feared they would take from him the freedom which he had gone through so much to obtain . 
The next day , the fugitive took a vessel , and the following morning found himself standing on the free soil of Canada . 
As his foot pressed the shore , he threw himself upon his face , kissed the earth , and exclaimed , O God ! I thank thee that I am a free man . 
CHAPTER XXVII TRUE FREEDOM THE history of the African race is God's illuminated clock , set in the dark steeple of time . 
The negro has been made the hewer of wood and the drawer of water for nearly all other nations . 
Jerome , on reaching Canada , felt for the first time that personal freedom which God intended that all who bore his image should enjoy . 
That same forgetfulness of self which had always characterized him now caused him to think of others . 
The thoughts of dear ones in slavery were continually in his mind , and above all others , Clotelle occupied his thoughts . 
Now that he was free , he could better appreciate her condition as a slave . 
Although Jerome met , on his arrival in Canada , numbers who had escaped from the Southern States , he nevertheless shrank from all society , particularly that of females . 
Jerome sought work , and soon found it and arranged with his employer that the latter should go to Natchez in search of Clotelle . 
With such a prospect of future happiness in view , this injured descendent of outraged and bleeding Africa went daily to his toil with an energy hitherto unknown to him . 
This intelligence fell with crushing weight upon the heart of Jerome , and he now felt that the last chain which bound him to his native land was severed . 
He therefore determined to leave America forever . 
His nearest and dearest friends had often been flogged in his very presence , and he had seen his mother sold to the negro trader . 
If there is one thing more than another calculated to make one hate and detest American slavery , it is to witness the meetings between fugitives and their friends in Canada . 
Jerome had beheld some of these scenes . 
The wife who , after years of separation , had escaped from her prison house and followed her husband had told her story to him . 
He had seen the newly arrived wife rush into the arms of the husband , whose dark face she had not looked upon for long , weary years . 
Some told of how a sister had been ill used by the overseer others of a husband's being whipped to death for having attempted to protect his wife . 
It was with such feelings that he informed his employer that he should leave him at the expiration of a month . 
Lawrence , bound for Liverpool . 
The bark , though an old one , was , nevertheless , considered seaworthy , and the fugitive was working his way out . 
With all her faults , I love my country still . 
CHAPTER XXIX A STRANGER IN A STRANGE LAND THE rain was falling on the dirty pavements of Liverpool as Jerome left the vessel after her arrival . 
Passing the custom house , he took a cab , and proceeded to Brown's Hotel , Clayton Square . 
Finding no employment in Liverpool , Jerome determined to go into the interior and seek for work . 
He , therefore , called for his bill , and made ready for his departure . 
I am the waiter , sir , and gets only what strangers see fit to give me . 
What do you want ? he asked . 
Whatever your honor sees fit to give me , sir . 
I am the tother waiter . 
The purse was again taken from the pocket , and another half crown handed out . 
Stepping out into the hall , he saw standing there a good looking woman , in a white apron , who made a very pretty courtesy . 
What's your business ? he inquired . 
I am the chambermaid , sir , and looks after the gentlemen's beds . 
What do you want ? demanded the now half angry Jerome . 
Please , sir , I am the tother chambermaid . 
Scarcely had he commenced congratulating himself , however , before three men made their appearance , one after another . 
What have you done for me ? he asked of the first . 
I am the boots , sir . 
The purse came out once more , and a shilling was deposited in the servant's hand . 
What do I owe you ? he inquired of the second . 
I took your honor's letter to the post , yesterday , sir . 
Another shilling left the purse . 
In the name of the Lord , what am I indebted to you for ? demanded Jerome , now entirely out of patience , turning to the last of the trio . 
I told yer vership vot time it vas , this morning . 
Well ! exclaimed the indignant man , ask here who o'clock it is , and you have got to pay for it . 
He paid this last demand with a sixpence , regretting that he had not commenced with sixpences instead of half crowns . 
I did not send for you what is your business ? demanded Jerome . 
Putting a sixpence in the old man's hand , Jerome once more started for the depot . 
Having obtained letters of introduction to persons in Manchester , he found no difficulty in getting a situation in a large manufacturing house there . 
Although the salary was small , yet the situation was a much better one than he had hoped to obtain . 
His compensation as out door clerk enabled him to employ a man to teach him at night , and , by continued study and attention to business , he was soon promoted . 
After three years in his new home , Jerome was placed in a still higher position , where his salary amounted to fifteen hundred dollars a year . 
The drinking , smoking , and other expensive habits , which the clerks usually indulged in , he carefully avoided . 
Being fond of poetry , he turned his attention to literature . 
Johnson's Lives of the Poets , the writings of Dryden , Addison , Pope , Clarendon , and other authors of celebrity , he read with attention . 
It was on a beautiful morning in summer that he started for Scotland , having made up his mind to travel for his health . 
After visiting Edinburgh and Glasgow , he concluded to spend a few days in the old town of Perth , with a friend whose acquaintance he had made in Manchester . 
During the second day of his stay in Perth , while crossing the main street , Jerome saw a pony chaise coming toward him with great speed . 
A lady , who appeared to be the only occupant of the vehicle , was using her utmost strength to stop the frightened horses . 
The footman , in his fright , had leaped from behind the carriage , and was following with the crowd . 
On the morning following this perilous adventure , Col . 
The house was surrounded by fine trees , and a sweet little stream ran murmuring at the foot , while beds of flowers on every hand shed their odors on the summer air . 
It was , indeed , a pleasant place to spend the warm weather , and the colonel and his family gave Jerome a most cordial welcome . 
Miss G. showed especial attention to the stranger . 
Wishing to witness a scene as interesting as the chase usually proves to be , he decided to remain . 
Fifteen persons , five of whom were ladies , were on the ground at the appointed hour . 
Miss G. was , of course , one of the party . 
In vain Jerome endeavored to excuse himself from joining in the chase . 
His plea of ill health was only met by smiles from the young ladies , and the reply that a ride would effect a cure . 
In America , riding is a necessity in England , it is a pleasure . 
Young men and women attend riding school in our fatherland , and consider that they are studying a science . 
The blowing of the horn , and assembling of the hounds , and finally the release of the fox from his close prison , were the signals for the chase to commence . 
The first half mile the little animal took his course over a beautiful field where there was neither hedge nor ditch . 
Thus far the chase was enjoyed by all , even by the American rider , who was better fitted to witness the scene than to take part in it . 
Besides , the fox had now made for a dense forest which lay before , and he saw difficulties in that direction which to him appeared insurmountable . 
Away went the huntsmen , over stone walls , high fences , and deep ditches . 
Jerome saw the ladies even leading the gentlemen , but this could not inspire him . 
They cleared the fences , four and five feet high with perfect ease , showing they were quite at home in the saddle . 
Away dashed the huntsmen , following the hounds , and all were soon lost to the view of their colored companion . 
Jerome rode up and down the field looking for a gate or bars , that he might get through without risking his neck . 
I hope no accident has happened to your honor , said the groom , as he met our hero at the gate . 
A slight dizziness , was the answer . 
One of the servants , without being ordered , went at once for the family physician . 
Ashamed to own that his return was owing to his inability to ride , Jerome resolved to feign sickness . 
The doctor came , felt his pulse , examined his tongue , and pronounced him a sick man . 
He immediately ordered a tepid bath , and sent for a couple of leeches . 
Shortly after , the sound of the horns and the yelp of the hounds announced that the poor fox had taken the back track , and was repassing near the house . 
Even the pleasure of witnessing the beautiful sight from the window was denied our hero for the physician had ordered that he must be kept in perfect quiet . 
The chase was at last over , and the huntsmen all in , sympathizing with their lost companion . 
After nine days of sweating , blistering , and leeching , Jerome left his bed convalescent , but much reduced in flesh and strength . 
This was his first and last attempt to follow the fox and hounds . 
During his fortnight's stay at Colonel G. , Jerome spent most of his time in the magnificent library . 
CHAPTER XXXI THE MYSTERIOUS MEETING AFTER more than a fortnight spent in the highlands of Scotland , Jerome passed hastily through London on his way to the continent . 
All nature around was hushed in silence , and seemed to partake of the general melancholy that hung over the quiet resting place of the departed . 
Even the birds seemed imbued with the spirit of the place , for they were silent , either flying noiselessly over the graves , or jumping about in the tall grass . 
Jerome seated himself on a marble tombstone , and commenced reading from a book which he had carried under his arm . 
As the lady's veil was drawn closely over her face , he felt somewhat at liberty to eye her more closely . 
While thus engaged , the lady gave a slight scream , and seemed suddenly to have fallen into a fainting condition . 
Jerome sprang from his seat , and caught her in time to save her from falling to the ground . 
The old man came up , and in rather a confused manner inquired what had happened , and Jerome explained matters as well as he was able to do so . 
After taking up the vinaigrette , which had fallen from her hand , and holding the bottle a short time to her face , the lady began to revive . 
During all this time , the veil had still partly covered the face of the fair one , so that Jerome had scarcely seen it . 
When she had so far recovered as to be able to look around her , she raised herself slightly , and again screamed and swooned . 
The little boy at this juncture set up a loud cry , and amid the general confusion , Jerome left the ground and returned to his hotel . 
After a walk of some twenty minutes , he found himself again in the burial ground and on the spot where he had been an hour before . 
Jerome searched in vain for his book it was nowhere to be found . 
The stillness of death reigned over the place even the little birds , that had before been twittering and flying about , had retired for the night . 
Taking up the bunch of flowers , Jerome returned to his hotel . 
What can this mean ? he would ask himself and why should they take my book ? These questions he put to himself again and again during his walk . 
His sleep was broken more than once that night , and he welcomed the early dawn as it made its appearance . 
While thus engaged , a servant entered and handed him a note . 
If you will honor us with your presence to day at four o'clock , I will be most happy to give you due satisfaction . 
My servant will be waiting with the carriage at half past three . 
I am , sir , yours , c . 
, J. DEVENANT JEROME FLETCHER , Esq . 
Who this gentleman was , and how he had found out his name and the hotel at which he was stopping , were alike mysteries to Jerome . 
And this note seemed to his puzzled brain like a challenge . 
Satisfaction ? He had not asked for satisfaction . 
However , he resolved to accept the invitation , and , if need be , meet the worst . 
At any rate , this most mysterious and complicated affair would be explained . 
The clock on a neighboring church had scarcely finished striking three when a servant announced to Jerome that a carriage had called for him . 
The carriage soon stopped at a low villa , which was completely embowered in trees . 
Jerome alighted , and was shown into a superb room , with the walls finely decorated with splendid tapestry , and the ceilings exquisitely frescoed . 
In the centre of the room stood a table covered with books , in the midst of which was a vase of fresh flowers , loading the atmosphere with their odors . 
A faint light , together with the quiet of the hour , gave beauty beyond description to the whole scene . 
A moment more and a lady , a beautiful brunette , dressed in black , with long black curls hanging over her shoulders , entered the room . 
Her dark , bright eyes flashed as she caught the first sight of Jerome . 
How long he remained in this condition , it was for others to tell . 
The lady knelt by his side and wept and when he came to , he found himself stretched upon the sofa with his boots off and his head resting upon a pillow . 
After the lapse of some ten minutes , Jerome arose from the sofa , adjusted his apparel , and said , I am now ready to hear anything you have to say . 
You were born in America ? said the old man . 
I was , he replied . 
And you knew a girl named Clotelle , continued the old man . 
Yes , and I loved her as I can love none other . 
The lady whom you met so mysteriously last evening was she , said Mr. Devenant . 
Jerome was silent , but the fountain of mingled grief and joy stole out from beneath his eyelashes , and glistened like pearls upon his ebony cheeks . 
At this juncture , the lady again entered the room . 
When they had given vent to their feelings and sufficiently recovered their presence of mind , they resumed their seats . 
How did you find out my name and address ? inquired Jerome . 
As she uttered the last words , tears the sweet bright tears that love alone can bring forth bedewed her cheeks . 
Are you married ? now inquired Clotelle , with a palpitating heart and trembling voice . 
No , I am not , and never have been , was Jerome's reply . 
Then , thank God ! she exclaimed , in broken accents . 
It was then that hope gleamed up amid the crushed and broken flowers of her heart , and a bright flash darted forth like a sunbeam . 
Are you single now ? asked Jerome . 
Yes , I am , was the answer . 
Then you will be mine after all ? said he with a smile . 
A new world seemed to unfold itself before the eyes of the happy lovers , and they were completely absorbed in contemplating the future . 
After her marriage with young Devenant , they proceeded to India , where the husband's regiment was stationed . 
Soomn after their arrival , however , a battle was fought with the natives , in which several officers fell , among whom was Captain Devenant . 
Old Mr. Devenant was possessed of a large fortune , all of which he intended for his daughter in law and her only child . 
Although Clotelle had married young Devenant , she had not forgotten her first love , and her father in law now willingly gave his consent to her marriage with Jerome . 
It was indeed a rare instance of devotion and constancy in a man , and the young widow gratefully appreciated it . 
This was the first evening that Jerome had been in her company since the night when , to effect his escape from prison , she disguised herself in male attire . 
How different the scene now . 
Free instead of slaves , wealthy instead of poor , and on the eve of an event that seemed likely to result in a life of happiness to both . 
A smile beamed on every face as the wedding party left the church and entered their carriage . 
Everything being arranged for a wedding tour extending up the Rhine , the party set out the same day for Antwerp . 
There are many rivers of greater length and width than the Rhine . 
Our Mississippi would swallow up half a dozen Rhines . 
Nature has so ordained it that those who travel in the valley of the Rhine shall see the river , for there never will be a railroad upon its banks . 
So mountainous is the land that it would have to be one series of tunnels . 
Every three or four miles from the time you enter this glorious river , hills , dales , castles , and crags present themselves as the steamer glides onward . 
Their first resting place for any length of time was at Coblentz , at the mouth of the Blue Moselle , the most interesting place on the river . 
From Coblentz they went to Brussels , where they had the greatest attention paid them . 
Besides being provided with letters of introduction , Jerome's complexion secured for him more deference than is usually awarded to travellers . 
The sumptuously furnished mansion was lavishly decorated for the occasion , and every preparation made that could add to the novelty or interest of the event . 
Jerome , with his beautiful bride , next visited Cologne , the largest and wealthiest city on the banks of the Rhine . 
A winding road , with frequent climbs and brakes , leads from the valley to this enchanting spot , the air and scenery of which cannot be surpassed in the world . 
CHAPTER XXXIV CLOTELLE MEETS HER FATHER . 
I would we were back at Geneva , said Clotelle , as she heard groans issuing from an adjoining room . 
The sounds , at first faint , grew louder and louder , plainly indicating that some person was suffering extreme pain . 
I did not like this hotel , much , when we came in , said Jerome , relighting the lamp , which had been accidentally extinguished . 
Nor I , returned Clotelle . 
The thunder grew louder , and the flashes of lightening more vivid , while the noise from the sick room seemed to increase . 
She was my child ! my own daughter . 
I loved her , and yet I did not protect her . 
Whoever he is , said Jerome , he's crack brained some robber , probably , from the mountains . 
I am sorry , sir , that you were so much disturbed by the sick man last night , said the landlord , as he handed Jerome his bill . 
I should be glad if he would get able to go away , or die , for he's a deal of trouble to me . 
Several persons have left my house on his account . 
Where is he from ? inquired Jerome . 
He's from the United States , and has been here a week to day , and has been crazy ever since . 
Has he no friends with him ? asked the guest . 
No , he is alone , was the reply . 
It was with feelings of trepidation that Clotelle heard these particulars from the lips of her husband . 
We must see this poor man , whoever he is , said she , as Jerome finished the sentence . 
The landlord was glad to hear that his guests felt some interest in the sick man , and promised that the invalid's room should be got ready for their reception . 
The clock in the hall was just striking ten , as Jerome passed through and entered the sick man's chamber . 
Stretched upon a mattress , with both hands tightly bound to the bedstead , the friendless stranger was indeed a pitiful sight . 
Certainly , he bore no resemblance to the man whom she had called her father , and who had fondly dandled her on his knee in those happy days of childhood . 
Help ! cried the poor man , as Jerome and his wife walked into the room . 
His eyes glared , and shriek after shriek broke forth from his parched and fevered lips . 
At the sound of her own name , coming from the maniac's lips , Clotelle gasped for breath , and her husband saw that she had grown deadly pale . 
It seemed evident to him that the man was either guilty of some terrible act , or imagined himself to be . 
His eyeballs rolled in their sockets , and his features showed that he was undergoing the tortures of that inward hell , which seemed to set his whole brain on fire . 
After recovering her self possession and strength , Clotelle approached the bedside , and laid her soft hand upon the stranger's hot and fevered brow . 
I am your daughter , said Clotelle , as she pressed her handkerchief to her face , and sobbed aloud . 
Like balls of fire , the poor man's eyes rolled and glared upon the company , while large drops of perspiration ran down his pale and emaciated face . 
Strange as the scene appeared , all present saw that it was indeed a meeting between a father and his long lost daughter . 
Jerome now ordered all present to leave the room , except the nurse , and every effort was at once made to quiet the sufferer . 
For two long days and nights did Clotelle watch at the bedside of her father before he could speak to her intelligently . 
Sometimes , in his insane fits , he would rave in the most frightful manner , and then , in a few moments , would be as easily governed as a child . 
The presence of his long absent child had a soothing effect upon Mr. Linwood , and he now recovered rapidly from the sad and almost hopeless condition in which she had found him . 
Poor woman ! she knew that I loved your mother , and feeling herself forsaken , she grew melancholy and died in a decline three years ago . 
Here both father and daughter wept at the thought of other days . 
She whipped her slaves without the slightest provocation , and seemed to take delight in inventing new tortures with which to punish them . 
Thus , after a frightful career of many years , this hard hearted woman died a most miserable death , unlamented by a single person . 
I married him , said Clotelle , because I loved him . 
Why should the white man be esteemed as better than the black ? I find no difference in men on account of their complexion . 
One of the cardinal principles of Christianity and freedom is the equality and brotherhood of man . 
Every day Mr. Linwood became more and more familiar with Jerome , and eventually they were on the most intimate terms . 
Fifteen days from the time that Clotelle was introduced into her father's room , they left Ferney for Geneva . 
Many were the excursions Clotelle made under the shadows of Mont Blanc , and with her husband and father for companions she was now in the enjoyment of pleasures hitherto unknown . 
Humanity and generosity are , at best , but poor guaranties for the protection of those who cannot assert their rights , and over whom law throws no protection . 
It was with pleasure that Clotelle obtained from her father a promise that he would liberate all his slaves on his return to Richmond . 
We can scarcely contemplate a visit to a more historic and interesting place than Geneva and its vicinity . 
No reputation can be called great that will no endure this test . 
The distinguished men who had lived in Geneva transfused their spirit , by their writings , into the spirit of other lovers of literature and everything that treated of great authors . 
Jerome and Clotelle lingered long in and about the haunts of Geneva and Lake Leman . 
Among the latter , none came with swifter steps or more zeal than Jerome and Clotelle Fletcher . 
They arrived in New Orleans a week after the capture of that city by the expedition under the command of Major Gen . 
Possessed with ample means , Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher set about the work of assisting those whom the rebellion had placed in a state of starvation and sickness . 
The General Order No. , issued on the nd of August , , by Gen . 
The noble daring of the First Louisiana gained for the black soldiers in our army the praise of all Americans who value Republican institutions . 
Payne , of the Third Louisiana , had been killed and his body , which was easily distinguished by the uniform , was still on the battle field . 
The colonel of the regiment , pointing to where the body lay , asked , Are there four men here who will fetch the body of Capt . 
Payne from the field ? Four men stepped out , and at once started . 
Are there four more who will try ? The third call was answered in the affirmative , and the men started upon the double quick . 
They , however , fell before getting as far as the preceding four . 
Twelve men had been killed in the effort to obtain the body of the brave Payne , but to no purpose . 
Humanity forbade another trial , and yet it was made . 
Are there four more men in the regiment who will volunteer to go for Capt . 
Payne's body ? shouted the officer . 
Four men sprang forward , as if fearful that they would miss the opportunity of these last one was Jerome Fletcher , the hero of our story . 
Of these , one was Jerome . 
His head was entirely torn off by a shell . 
The body of the deceased officer having been rescued , an end was put t the human sacrifice . 
For a time she withdrew from the gaze of mankind , and gave herself up to grief . 
Few unions had been productive of more harmonious feelings than hers . 
And this blow , so unexpected and at a time when she was experiencing such a degree of excitement caused by the rebellion , made her , indeed , feel the affliction severely . 
But the newspaper accounts of the intense suffering of the Union prisoners in the rebel States aroused her , and caused her to leave her retirement . 
In the month of October , , Clotelle resolved to visit Andersonville , Ga . 
, for the purpose of alleviating the hardships of our sick and imprisoned soldiers , and at once put her resolution into effect by going immediately to that place . 
After crossing the lines , she passed as a rebel lady , to enable her the more successfully to carry out her object . 
On her arrival at Andersonville , Clotelle took up her abode with a private family , of Union proclivities , and commenced her work of mercy . 
She first visited the hospitals , the buildings of which were merest excuses for hospitals . 
It was the beginning of November and , even in that southern latitude , the cold made these miserable abodes uncomfortable nights and mornings . 
The repulsive scenes , that showed the suffering , neglect , and cruelty which these poor creatures had experienced , made her heart sink within her . 
However , with a determination to do all in her power for the needy , she labored in season and out . 
The brutal treatment and daily murders committed upon our soldiers in the Andersonville prisons caused Clotelle to secretly aid prisoners in their escape . 
In the latter work , she brought to her assistance the services of a negro man named Pete . 
This individual was employed about the prison , and , having the entire confidence of the commandant , was in a position to do much good without being suspected . 
How to escape from prison was ever the thoughts by day and dreams by night of the incarcerated . 
Plans were concocted , partly put into execution , and then proved failures . 
Tunnelling was generally the mode for escape and tunnelling became the order of the day , or , rather , the work for the night . 
In the latter part of November , , the unusual gaiety of the prisoners showed that some plan of exit from the prison was soon to be exhibited . 
The digging of a tunnel is not an easy job , and , consequently , is of slow progress . 
The Andersonville prisoners had to dig ten feet down into the earth , after cutting through the floor , and then went a distance of fifty feet to get beyond the wall . 
This mode of operating was carried on night after night , and the flooring replaced during the day , to prevent suspicion . 
The long looked for day arrived . 
More than three hundred had prepared to leave this hated abode , by the tunnel . 
All they waited for was the tapping and the signal . 
Great was the commotion throughout the prison , and all who were caught in the tunnel were severely punished . 
This failure seemed to depress the spirits of the men more than any previous attempt . 
Heavy irons were placed upon the limbs of many of the prisoners , and their lot was made otherwise harder by the keepers . 
The cruelty which followed this mishap , induced Clotelle to interest herself in another mode of escape for the men thus so heavily ironed . 
The night of the exodus came . 
It was favored with darkness and it so happened that the officials were on a spree , owing to the arrival of Confederate officers with news of a rebel victory . 
Before getting the keys , Pete supplied the sentinels on duty with enough whiskey , which he had stolen from the keepers' store room , to make them all drunk . 
Nothing was known of the exit of the men till breakfast hour on the next morning . 
On examination of the store room , it was found , that , in addition to the whiskey Pete had taken a large supply of stores for the accommodation of the party . 
Added to this , a good number of arms with ammunition had been furnished the men by the African . 
The rebels were not prepared to successfully pursue the fleeing prisoners , although armed men were sent in different directions . 
Nothing , however , was heard of them till they reached the Union lines . 
Long suspected of too freely aiding Union prisoners , Clotelle was now openly charged with a knowledge of the escape of these men , and was compelled to leave Andersonville . 
In few places were the women more abusive to those of Union proclivities than the female portion of the inhabitants of Greenville , Alabama . 
While passing through this town , on her return from Andersonville to New Orleans , Clotelle had to encounter the fierce ill treatment of these chivalrous daughters of the South . 
One of these patriotic women was arrested while on a visit to Greenville for the purpose of procuring medicine and other necessaries for sick Union men then hid away in the woods . 
This act of kindness to a helpless sister at once stirred up the vilest feelings of the people . 
The worst of slaves is he whom passion rules . 
She passed as a rebel lady yet the inhabitants of Greenville could not permit sympathy with , and aid to , a Union woman to pass unnoticed , and therefore resolved on revenge . 
Revenge , at first though sweet , Bitter ere long , back on itself recoils . 
Clotelle's person , trunks , and letters were all searched with the hope and expectation of finding evidences of a spy . 
Nothing of the kind being found , she was then rigorously interrogated as to her sympathies with the two contending armies . 
With no wish whatever to conceal her opinions , she openly avowed that she was a Union woman . 
After being persecuted during the day , she was put in charge of a committee of rebel women for the night , with a promise of more violent treatment on the morrow . 
The loyalty of the negroes of the South , during the severest hours of the rebellion , reflects the greatest possible credit on the race . 
No one ever made an appeal to them they did not answer . 
They never shunned a man or woman who sought food or shelter on their way to freedom . 
She saw from their very looks that she had their undivided sympathies . 
The slave woman who gave the information told her that she could escape if she desired . 
Two horses had been provided . 
Clotelle mounted one , and a black man the other the latter leading the way . 
Both dashed off at a rapid pace , through a drenching storm , with such a pall like darkness that they could not see each other . 
After an hour's ride the negro halted , and informed Clotelle that he must leave her , and return with the horses , but that she was with friends . 
He then gave a whistle , and for a moment held his breath . 
You is jes as wet as a drownded rat , said the mulatto woman , who met Clotelle as she entered the negro's cabin . 
Yes , replied the latter , this is a stormy night for one to be out . 
Yes mam , dese is hard times for eberybody dat 'bleves in de Union . 
I 'spose deys cotched your husband , an' put him in de army , ain't dey ? No my husband died at Port Hudson , fighting for the Union , said Clotelle . 
Oh , mam , dats de place whar de black people fight de rebels so , wasn't it ? remarked Dinah , for such was her name . 
Yes , that was the place , replied the former . 
I see that your husband has lost one of his hands did he lose it in the war ? Oh no , missus , said Dinah . 
When dey was taken all de men , black an white , to put in de army , dey cotched my ole man too , and took him long wid 'em . 
So you see , he said he'd die afore he'd shoot at de Yanks . 
So you see , missus , Jimmy jes took and lay his left han' on a log , and chop it off wid de hatchet . 
Den , you see , dey let him go , an' he come home . 
You see , missus , my Jimmy is a free man he was born free , an' he bought me , an' pay fifteen hundred dollars for me . 
It was true that Jim had purchased his wife nor had he forgotten the fact , as was shown a day or two after , while in conversation with her . 
The woman , like many of her sex , was an inveterate scold , and Jim had but one way to govern her tongue . 
Shet your mouf , madam , an' hole your tongue , said Jim , after his wife had scolded and sputtered away for some minutes . 
Shet your mouf dis minit , I say you shan't stan' dar , an' talk ter me in dat way . 
I bought you , an' paid my money fer you , an I ain't a gwine ter let you sase me in dat way . 
Shet your mouf dis minit ef you don't I'll sell you 'fore God I will . 
Shet up , I say , or I'll sell you . 
This had the desired effect , and settled Dinah for the day . 
After a week spent in this place of concealment , Jim conveyed Clotelle to Leaksville , Mississippi , through the Federal lines , and from thence she proceeded to New Orleans . 
The Rebellion was now drawing to a close . 
The valley of the Mississippi was in full possession of the Federal government . 
Sherman was on his raid , and Grant was hemming in Lee . 
