THE COUNT'S MILLIONS Translated from the French of EMILE GABORIAU A novel in two parts . 
Part Two of this novel is found in the volume Baron Trigault's Vengeance PASCAL AND MARGUERITE . 
It was a Thursday evening , the fifteenth of October and although only half past six o'clock , it had been dark for some time already . 
The weather was cold , and the sky was as black as ink , while the wind blew tempestuously , and the rain fell in torrents . 
As could be easily seen , he held all the other servants in his power . 
He could let them absent themselves without leave , if he chose , and conceal all returns late at night after the closing of public balls and wine shops . 
Thus , it is needless to say that M. Bourigeau and his wife were treated by their fellow servants with the most servile adulation . 
The owner of the house was not at home that evening , so that M. Casimir , the count's head valet , was serving coffee for the benefit of all the retainers . 
For the time being , a pert little waiting maid , with an odious turn up nose , had the floor . 
She was addressing her remarks to a big , burly , and rather insolent looking fellow , who had been added only the evening before to the corps of footmen . 
The place is really intolerable , she was saying . 
And the work ? A mere nothing . 
Think , there are eighteen of us to serve only two persons , the count and Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
But then there is never any pleasure , never any amusement here . 
What ! is one bored then ? Bored to death . 
This grand house is worse than a tomb . 
No receptions , no dinners nothing . 
Would you believe it , I have never seen the reception rooms ! They are always closed and the furniture is dropping to pieces under its coverings . 
There are not three visitors in the course of a month . 
She was evidently incensed , and the new footman seemed to share her indignation . 
Why , how is it ? he exclaimed . 
Is the count an owl ? A man who's not yet fifty years old , and who's said to be worth several millions . 
Yes , millions you may safely say it and perhaps ten , perhaps twenty millions too . 
Then all the more reason why there should be something going on here . 
What does he do with himself alone , all the blessed day ? Nothing . 
He reads in the library , or wanders about the garden . 
Sometimes , in the evening , he drives with Mademoiselle Marguerite to the Bois de Boulogne in a closed carriage but that seldom happens . 
Besides , there is no such thing as teasing the poor man . 
I've been in the house for six months , and I've never heard him say anything but 'yes' 'no' 'do this' 'very well' 'retire . 
You would think these are the only words he knows . 
Ask M. Casimir if I'm not right . 
Our guv'nor isn't very gay , that's a fact , responded the valet . 
The footman was listening with a serious air , as if greatly interested in the character of the people whom he was to serve . 
And mademoiselle , he asked , what does she say to such an existence ? Bless me ! during the six months she has been here , she has never once complained . 
If she is bored , added M. Casimir , she conceals it bravely . 
Naturally enough , sneered the waiting maid , with an ironical gesture each month that mademoiselle remains here , brings her too much money for her to complain . 
What ! what ! he exclaimed , on fire with curiosity is there really anything in that ? To tell the truth , I was inclined to doubt it . 
His companions were evidently about to tell him all they knew , or rather all they thought they knew , when the front door bell rang vigorously . 
There he comes ! exclaimed the concierge but he's in too much of a hurry hell have to wait awhile . 
Make haste ! continued the driver . 
I was bringing a gentleman here you must know him . 
He's outside , in my vehicle Without pausing to listen any longer , the servants rushed out , and the driver's incoherent explanation at once became intelligible . 
At the bottom of the cab , a roomy four wheeler , a man was lying all of a heap , speechless and motionless . 
He must have fallen forward , face downward , and owing to the jolting of the vehicle his head had slipped under the front seat . 
Poor devil ! muttered M. Casimir , he must have had a stroke of apoplexy . 
The valet was peering into the vehicle as he spoke , and his comrades were approaching , when suddenly he drew back , uttering a cry of horror . 
This circumstance restored M. Casimir's composure or , at least , some portion of it . 
You must drive into the courtyard , he said , addressing the cabman . 
M. Bourigeau , open the gate , if you please . 
And then , turning to another servant , he added And you must make haste and fetch a physician no matter who . 
Run to the nearest doctor , and don't return until you bring one with you . 
Then they placed him in a large arm chair , carried him to his own room , and speedily had him undressed and in bed . 
He had so far given no sign of life and as he lay there with his head weighing heavily on the pillow , you might have thought that all was over . 
His most intimate friend would scarcely have recognized him . 
His features were swollen and discolored his eyes were closed , and a dark purple circle , looking almost like a terrible bruise , extended round them . 
A spasm had twisted his lips , and his distorted mouth , which was drawn on one side and hung half open imparted a most sinister expression to his face . 
In spite of every precaution , he had been wounded as he was removed from the cab . 
His forehead had been grazed by a piece of iron , and a tiny stream of blood was trickling down upon his face . 
However , he still breathed and by listening attentively , one could distinguish a faint rattling in his throat . 
The servants , who had been so garrulous a few moments before , were silent now . 
They lingered in the room , exchanging glances of mute consternation . 
Their faces were pale and sad , and there were tears in the eyes of some of them . 
What was passing in their minds ? Perhaps they were overcome by that unconquerable fear which sudden and unexpected death always provokes . 
Perhaps they unconsciously loved this master , whose bread they ate . 
Perhaps their grief was only selfishness , and they were merely wondering what would become of them , where they should find another situation , and if it would prove a good one . 
Not knowing what to do , they talked together in subdued voices , each suggesting some remedy he had heard spoken of for such cases . 
The person whom they called mademoiselle was standing on the threshold . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was a beautiful young girl , about twenty years of age . 
She was a brunette of medium height , with big gloomy eyes shaded by thick eyebrows . 
Heavy masses of jet black hair wreathed her lofty but rather sad and thoughtful forehead . 
There was something peculiar in her face an expression of concentrated suffering , and a sort of proud resignation , mingled with timidity . 
What has happened ? she asked , gently . 
What is the cause of all the noise I have heard ? I have rung three times and the bell was not answered . 
No one ventured to reply , and in her surprise she cast a hasty glance around . 
A sudden dread seized her she shuddered , and in a faltering voice she added Why are you all here ? Speak , tell me what has happened . 
A great misfortune , mademoiselle , a terrible misfortune . 
The count And he paused , frightened by what he was about to say . 
But Mademoiselle Marguerite had understood him . 
Two maids sprang forward to support her , but she gently repulsed them , murmuring , Thanks ! thanks ! I am strong now . 
She was , in fact , sufficiently strong to conquer her weakness . 
She summoned all her resolution , and , paler than a statue , with set teeth and dry , glittering eyes , she approached the alcove . 
Deeply moved by the sight of this despair , the servants held their breath , wondering how it would all end . 
The girl sprang from her knees , as if a gleam of hope had darted through her heart . 
A physician ! she said , eagerly . 
I have sent for one , mademoiselle , replied M. Casimir . 
And hearing a voice and a sound of footsteps on the staircase , he added And fortunately , here he comes . 
He was a young man , although his head was almost quite bald . 
He was short , very thin , clean shaven , and clad in black from head to foot . 
This is a serious case , he said at the close of his examination . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite , who had followed his movements with the most poignant anxiety , could not repress a sob . 
But all hope is not lost , is it , monsieur ? she asked in a beseeching voice , with hands clasped in passionate entreaty . 
You will save him , will you not you will save him ? One may always hope for the best . 
This was the doctor's only answer . 
He had drawn his case of instruments from his pocket , and was testing the points of his lancets on the tip of his finger . 
When he had found one to his liking I must ask you , mademoiselle , said he , to order these women to retire , and to retire yourself . 
The men will remain to assist me , if I require help . 
Meanwhile , inside the room , the physician was proceeding slowly , not from temperament however , but from principle . 
Jodon for such was his name was an ambitious man who played a part . 
By casting in people's eyes the same powder as his teacher had employed , he hoped to obtain the same results a large practice and an immense fortune . 
In his secret heart he was by no means disconcerted by his patient's condition on the contrary , he did not consider the count's state nearly as precarious as it really was . 
But bleeding and cupping alike failed to bring the sick man to consciousness . 
He remained speechless and motionless the only result obtained , was that his breathing became a trifle easier . 
He calmly said , I cannot give my decision as yet . 
Now , he said , addressing his remarks to M. Casimir , I desire to make a few inquiries . 
Is this the first time the Count de Chalusse has had such an attack ? Yes , sir at least since I have been in attendance upon him . 
That is a chance in our favor . 
Tell me have you ever heard him complain of vertigo , or of a buzzing in his ears ? Never . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite seemed inclined to volunteer some remark , but the doctor imposed silence upon her by a gesture , and continued his examination . 
Is the count a great eater ? he inquired . 
Does he drink heavily ? The count is moderation itself , monsieur , and he always takes a great deal of water with his wine . 
He was copying his master . 
The devil ! he said , sotto voce . 
There must be some cause for such an attack , however . 
Ah ! now we have it , said the doctor , with the air of an oracle . 
Why did you not tell me all this at first ? It will be necessary for you to give me the particulars , mademoiselle . 
The servants were dazed by the doctor's manner but Mademoiselle Marguerite was far from sharing their awe and admiration . 
It is of the most urgent importance that I should be fully informed of these particulars , repeated the physician peremptorily . 
After such an assertion , further hesitation was out of the question . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite seemed to collect her thoughts , and then she sadly said Just as we sat down to breakfast this morning , a letter was handed to the count . 
No sooner had his eyes fallen upon it , than he turned as white as his napkin . 
He rose from his seat and began to walk hastily up and down the dining room , uttering exclamations of anger and sorrow . 
I spoke to him , but he did not seem to hear me . 
However , after a few moments , he resumed his seat at the table , and began to eat As usual ? He ate more than usual , monsieur . 
Only I must tell you that it seemed to me he was scarcely conscious of what he was doing . 
Four or five times he left the table , and then came back again . 
At last , after quite a struggle , he seemed to come to some decision . 
He tore the letter to pieces , and threw the pieces out of the window that opens upon the garden . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite expressed herself with the utmost simplicity , and there was certainly nothing particularly extraordinary in her story . 
Without seeming to notice the effect she had produced , and addressing herself to the physician alone , the girl continued After the letter was destroyed , M. de Chalusse seemed himself again . 
Coffee was served , and he afterward lighted a cigar as usual . 
However , he soon let it go out . 
I dared not disturb him by any remarks but suddenly he said to me 'It's strange , but I feel very uncomfortable . 
A moment passed , without either of us speaking , and then he added 'I am certainly not well . 
I did as he requested , and he poured eight or ten drops of the contents of the vial into a glass of water , and swallowed it . 
Jodon's interest that he became himself again . 
And after that ? he asked , eagerly . 
After that , M. de Chalusse seemed to feel much better , and retired to his study as usual . 
I hastened there , very much surprised , for the weather was extremely disagreeable . 
'Dear Marguerite , he said , on seeing me , 'help me to find the fragments of that letter which I flung from the window this morning . 
I would give half my fortune for an address which it must certainly have contained , but which I quite overlooked in my anger . 
I helped him as he asked . 
We succeeded in finding a large number of the scraps , but what M. de Chalusse so particularly wanted was not to be read on any one of them . 
Several times he spoke of his regret , and cursed his precipitation . 
M. Bourigeau , the concierge , and M. Casimir exchanged a significant smile . 
They had seen the count searching for the remnants of this letter , and had thought him little better than an idiot . 
But now everything was explained . 
Such a person ! Who who was this person ? he inquired eagerly , without apparently realizing the impropriety of his question . 
But the girl felt indignant . 
She silenced her indiscreet questioner with a haughty glance , and in the driest possible tone , replied I have forgotten the name . 
Cut to the quick , the doctor suddenly resumed his master's pose but all the same his imperturbable sang froid was sensibly impaired . 
After this he appeared to be entirely at ease . 
At three o'clock he rang for his valet , and ordered dinner two hours earlier than usual . 
We sat down to table at about half past four . 
However , the particulars of the attack were yet to be learned and it was M. Casimir whom the physician next addressed . 
What did the driver who brought your master home say to you ? Oh ! almost nothing , sir not ten words . 
You must find this man and bring him to me . 
Two servants rushed out in search of him . 
He could not be far away , for his vehicle was still standing in the courtyard . 
They found him in a wine shop near by . 
He had quite recovered from his fright , and was cheerful , even gay . 
Come make haste , you are wanted , said the servants . 
He emptied his glass and followed them with very bad grace , muttering and swearing between his set teeth . 
The doctor , strange to say , was considerate enough to go out into the hall to question him but no information of value was gained by the man's answers . 
Living is dear , it should be remembered , and a fellow makes as much as he can . 
When the cabby had gone off , still growling , although a couple of louis had been placed in his hand , the doctor returned to his patient . 
He involuntarily assumed his accustomed attitude , with crossed arms , a gloomy expression of countenance , and his forehead furrowed as if with thought and anxiety . 
But this time he was not acting a part . 
In spite , or rather by reason of , the full explanation that had been given him , he found something suspicious and mysterious in the whole affair . 
A thousand vague and undefinable suspicions crossed his mind . 
Was he in presence of a crime ? Certainly , evidently not . 
It would bring him into notice he would be mentioned in the papers and his increased practice would fill his hands with gold . 
He approached Mademoiselle Marguerite , who was weeping in an arm chair , and touched her gently on the shoulder . 
She sprang to her feet at once . 
One more question , mademoiselle , said he , imparting as much solemnity to his tone as he could . 
Do you know what liquid it was that M. de Chalusse took this morning ? Alas ! no , monsieur . 
It is very important that I should know . 
The accuracy of my diagnosis is dependent upon it . 
What has become of the vial ? I think M. de Chalusse replaced it in his escritoire . 
The physician pointed to an article of furniture to the left of the fireplace There ? he asked . 
He deliberated , but at last conquering his hesitation , he said Could we not obtain this vial ? Mademoiselle Marguerite blushed . 
I haven't the key , she faltered , in evident embarrassment . 
M. Casimir approached It must be in the count's pocket , and if mademoiselle will allow me But she stepped back with outstretched arms as if to protect the escritoire . 
No , she exclaimed , no the escritoire shall not be touched . 
I will not permit it But , mademoiselle , insisted the doctor , your father The Count de Chalusse is not my father ! Dr . 
Jodon was greatly disconcerted by Mademoiselle Marguerite's vehemence . 
Ah ! said he , in three different tones , ah ! ah ! In less than a second , a thousand strange and contradictory suppositions darted through his brain . 
At last she found it . 
Casimir , she said , authoritatively , search M. de Chalusse's pocket for the key of his escritoire . 
Astonished by what he regarded as a new caprice , the valet obeyed . 
He gathered up the garments strewn over the floor , and eventually drew a key from one of the waistcoat pockets . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite took it from him , and then in a determined tone , exclaimed A hammer . 
Now , said she , quietly , my mind will be at rest . 
I am certain , she added , turning toward the servants , that M. de Chalusse would approve what I have done . 
When he recovers , he will have another key made . 
All the servants understood the motive that had influenced her , and were saying to themselves , Mademoiselle is right . 
It would not do to touch the escritoire of a dying man . 
Who knows but what there are millions in it ? If anything were missed , why any of us might be accused . 
But if the key is destroyed , it will be impossible to suspect any one . 
However , the physician's conjectures were of an entirely different nature . 
What can there be in that escritoire which she desires to conceal ? he thought . 
But there was no excuse for prolonging his visit . 
Madame Leon and I will watch over M. de Chalusse , replied Mademoiselle Marguerite that is sufficient assurance , monsieur , that your orders will be obeyed to the letter . 
Only you will not take offence , I trust , if I ask the count's regular physician to meet you in consultation . 
Such a proposal was anything but pleasing to M. Jodon , who had met with the same misfortune in this aristocratic neighborhood several times before . 
Accustomed to such disappointments , he knew how to conceal his dissatisfaction . 
In that case , very well . 
Thereupon he bowed and left the room . 
But Mademoiselle Marguerite followed him on to the landing . 
You know , monsieur , she said , speaking rapidly in an undertone , that I am not M. de Chalusse's daughter . 
You may , therefore , tell me the truth . 
Is his condition hopeless ? Alarming yes hopeless no . 
But , monsieur , this terrible unconsciousness It usually follows such an attack as he has been the victim of . 
Still we may hope that the paralysis will gradually disappear , and the power of motion return after a time . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was listening , pale , agitated , and embarrassed . 
It was evident that she had a question on her lips which she scarcely dared to ask . 
She thanked him sadly , sent a servant to summon Madame Leon , and returned to the count's room . 
It was not until the fresh air of the courtyard blew upon his face , reminding him of the realities of life , that the charlatanesque element in his nature regained the ascendency . 
And to morrow , you must inform the commissary of police . 
He was a beardless fellow with a strangely wrinkled face , as leaden tinted as that of a confirmed absinthe drinker . 
His general expression was shrewd , and at the same time impudent , and surprising audacity gleamed in his eyes . 
What do you want ? asked M. Casimir . 
The young fellow bowed humbly , and replied , Ah , don't you recognize me , monsieur ? I'm Toto excuse me Victor Chupin , employed by M. Isidore Fortunat . 
I have no information to give you ah , yes ! stop ! The Marquis de Valorsay was closeted with the count for two hours yesterday . 
But what good will that do ? The count has been taken suddenly ill , and he will scarcely live through the night . 
Is it for him that the straw has been strewed in the street ? It's for him . 
What a lucky fellow ! No one would go to such expense for me ! But I have an idea that my guv'nor will hardly laugh when I tell him this . 
Still , thank you all the same , m'sieur , and au revoir . 
He was darting off when a sudden thought detained him . 
Excuse me , said he , with conjuror like volubility I was so horrified that I forgot business . 
Tell me , m'sieur , if the count dies , you'll take charge of the funeral arrangements , won't you ? Very well a word of advice then . 
Don't go to the regular undertakers , but come to me here's my address proffering a card I will treat with the undertakers for you , and take charge of everything . 
It will be much better and far cheaper for you , on account of certain arrangements I've made with these parties . 
Everything , to the very last plume , is warranted to give perfect satisfaction . 
Each item will be specified in the bill , and can be verified during the ceremony , no payment exacted until after delivery . 
Well , is it understood ? The valet shrugged his shoulders . 
Nonsense ! said he , carelessly what is all that to me ? Ah ! I forgot to mention that there would be a commission of two hundred francs to divide between us . 
Give me your card , and rely on me . 
My compliments to M. Fortunat , please . 
And so saying , he re entered the house . 
Victor Chupin drew a huge silver watch from his pocket and consulted it . 
Five minutes to eight , he growled , and the guv'nor expects me at eight precisely . 
I shall have to stretch out my legs . 
M. Isidore Fortunat resided at No. Place de la Bourse , on the third floor . 
The whole cost him only six thousand francs a year , a mere trifle as rents go nowadays . 
Besides , people knew very well from what source M. Fortunat derived his income . 
To be just , we must add that M. Fortunat's appearance , manners and conduct were of a nature to quiet all suspicions . 
This much is certain he did not frequent cafes or places of amusement . 
If he went out at all after dinner , it was only to pass the evening at the house of some rich client in the neighborhood . 
He detested the smell of tobacco , and was inclined to be devout never failing to attend eight o'clock mass on Sunday mornings . 
His housekeeper suspected him of matrimonial designs , and perhaps she was right . 
Madame Dodelin hastened to open the door , and in walked Victor Chupin , breathless from his hurried walk . 
It had not taken him twenty five minutes to cover the distance which separates the Rue de Courcelles from the Place de la Bourse . 
You are late , Victor , said M. Fortunat , quietly . 
That's true , monsieur , but it isn't my fault . 
M. Fortunat sprang from his chair with a livid face and trembling lips . 
Stricken with apoplexy ! he exclaimed in a husky voice . 
I am ruined ! Then , fearing Madame Dodelin's curiosity , he seized the lamp and rushed into his office , crying to Chupin Follow me . 
Chupin obeyed without a word , for he was a shrewd fellow , and knew how to make the best of a trying situation . 
But M. Fortunat seemed to have forgotten his presence . 
After depositing the lamp on the mantel shelf , he walked several times round and round the room like a hunted beast seeking for some means of egress . 
He walked straight to Chupin , and caught him by the collar , as if the young fellow had been the cause of this misfortune . 
It isn't possible , said he the count CANNOT be dead . 
You are deceiving me , or they deceived you . 
You must have misunderstood you only wished to give some excuse for your delay perhaps . 
Speak , say something ! As a rule , Chupin was not easily impressed , but he felt almost frightened by his employer's agitation . 
I only repeated what M. Casimir told me , monsieur , was his reply . 
He then wished to furnish some particulars , but M. Fortunat had already resumed his furious tramp to and fro , giving vent to his wrath and despair in incoherent exclamations . 
Forty thousand francs lost ! he exclaimed . 
Forty thousand francs , counted out there on my desk ! I see them yet , counted and placed in the hand of the Marquis de Valorsay in exchange for his signature . 
My savings for a number of years , and I have only a worthless scrap of paper to show for them . 
That cursed marquis ! And he was to come here this evening , and I was to give him ten thousand francs more . 
They are lying there in that drawer . 
And yet the marquis is as much to be pitied as I am , he continued . 
He was inwardly jubilant , for his interest in the affair was in direct opposition to that of his employer . 
Indeed , if M. Fortunat lost forty thousand francs by the Count de Chalusse's death , Chupin expected to make a hundred francs commission on the funeral . 
Still , he may have made a will ! pursued M. Fortunat . 
But no , I'm sure he hasn't . 
A poor devil who has only a few sous to leave behind him always takes this precaution . 
He thinks he may be run over by an omnibus and suddenly killed , and he always writes and signs his last wishes . 
But millionaires don't think of such things they believe themselves immortal ! He paused to reflect for a moment , for power of reflection had returned to him . 
His excitement had quickly spent itself by reason of its very violence . 
He was one of those men who may be stunned , but never crushed , by a catastrophe . 
In conclusion , he muttered , I must enter my forty thousand francs as an item in the profit and loss account . 
It only remains to be seen if it would not be possible to regain them in the same affair . 
He was again master of himself , and never had his mind been more clear . 
I am safe , he muttered , so low that Chupin could not hear him . 
And so speaking , he rose and glanced at the clock . 
Nine o'clock , said he . 
I must open the campaign this very evening . 
Motionless in his dark corner , Chupin still retained his commiserating attitude but he was so oppressed with curiosity that he could scarcely breathe . 
He opened his eyes and ears to the utmost , and watched his employer's slightest movements with intense interest . 
I can certainly discover the necessary pretext here , he murmured , rummaging through the mass of papers . 
At last ! He held in his hand a soiled and crumpled note of hand , affixed by a pin to a huissier's protest , thus proving conclusively that it had been dishonored . 
He was in such haste that he did not wait to put his portfolio in order . 
Do you remember their address ? Perfectly . 
They are now living on the Asnieres Road , beyond the fortifications , on the right hand side . 
I'm not sure whether the number is eighteen or forty six , he said , at last that is Never mind , interrupted M. Fortunat . 
If I sent you to the house could you find it ? Oh yes , m'sieur at once with my eyes shut . 
I can see the place perfectly a rickety old barrack . 
There is a tract of unoccupied land on one side , and a kitchen garden in the rear . 
Very well you shall accompany me there . 
Chupin seemed astonished by this strange proposal . 
What , m'sieur , said he , do you think of going there at this time of night ? Why not ? Shall we find the establishment closed ? No certainly not . 
Vantrasson doesn't merely keep furnished rooms he's a grocer , and sells liquor too . 
His place is open until eleven o'clock at least . 
But if you are going there to present a bill , it's perhaps a little late . 
If I were in your place , m'sieur , I should wait till to morrow . 
It's raining , and the streets are deserted . 
Are you afraid ? This question seemed so utterly absurd to Chupin that he was not in the least offended by it his only answer was a disdainful shrug of the shoulders . 
Then we will go , remarked M. Fortunat . 
While I'm getting ready , go and hire a cab , and see that you get a good horse . 
Chupin was off in an instant , tearing down the staircase like a tempest . 
There was a cab stand only a few steps from the house , but he preferred to run to the jobmaster's stables in the Rue Feydeau . 
Cab , sir ! shouted several men , as they saw him approaching . 
He made no reply , but began to examine the horses with the air of a connoisseur , until at last he found an animal that suited him . 
Thereupon he beckoned to the driver , and going to the little office where a woman sat reading My five sous , if you please , he said , authoritatively . 
The woman looked at him . 
Most jobmasters are in the habit of giving five sous to any servant who comes in search of a cab for his master and this was the custom here . 
But the keeper of the office , who felt sure that Chupin was not a servant , hesitated and this made the young fellow angry . 
Make haste , he cried , imperiously . 
If you don't , I shall run to the nearest stand . 
The woman at once threw him five sous , which he pocketed with a satisfied grin . 
They were his rightfully his since he had taken the trouble to gain them . 
M. Fortunat had profited by his clerk's absence , not to disguise himself that would be saying too much but to make some changes in his appearance . 
Of the prosperous Fortunat , so favorably known round about the Place de la Bourse , naught remained save his face and his hands . 
Another Fortunat had taken his place , more than needy in aspect wretched , famished , gaunt with hunger , ready for any desperate deed . 
And , yet , he seemed at ease in this garb it yielded to his every movement , as if he had worn it for a long time . 
The butterfly had become a chrysalis again . 
Chupin's admiring smile must have repaid him for his trouble . 
Let us start at once , said he . 
But just as he was leaving the ante room , he remembered an order of great importance which he wished to give . 
I shall return before midnight . 
Don't take him into my office he can wait in the drawing room . 
This last order was certainly unnecessary , since M. Fortunat had closed and double locked his office door and placed the key carefully in his own pocket . 
But perhaps he had forgotten this circumstance . 
There were now no traces of his recent anger and disappointment . 
He was in excellent humor and you might have supposed that he was starting on an enterprise from which he expected to derive both pleasure and profit . 
Chupin was climbing to a place on the box beside the driver when his employer bade him take a seat inside the vehicle . 
They were not long in reaching their destination , for the horse was really a good one , and the driver had been stimulated by the promise of a magnificent gratuity . 
In fact , M. Fortunat and his companion reached the Asnieres Road in less than forty minutes . 
Well , sir , here you are ! Are you satisfied ? he inquired , as he opened the door . 
Perfectly satisfied , replied M. Fortunat . 
Here is your promised gratuity . 
Now , you have only to wait for us . 
Don't stir from this place . 
Do you understand ? But the driver shook his head . 
Excuse me , he said , but if it's all the same to you , I will station myself over there near the gate . 
Here , you see , I should be afraid to go to sleep , while over there Very well suit yourself , M. Fortunat replied . 
This precaution on the driver's part convinced him that Chupin had not exaggerated the evil reputation of this quarter of the Parisian suburbs . 
They could not see a step before them the mud was ankle deep , and not a person , not a solitary soul was visible . 
Are we almost there ? M. Fortunat asked every ten paces . 
Chupin said this but to tell the truth , he knew nothing about it . 
He tried to discover where he was , but did not succeed . 
Houses were becoming scanty , and vacant plots of building ground more numerous it was only with the greatest difficulty that one could occasionally discern a light . 
At last , however , after a quarter of an hour's hard struggling , Chupin uttered a joyful cry . 
Here we are , m'sieur look ! said he . 
A large building , five stories high , sinister of aspect , and standing quite alone , could just be distinguished in the darkness . 
It was already falling to pieces , and yet it was not entirely completed . 
Plainly enough , the speculator who had undertaken the enterprise had not been rich enough to complete it . 
The inside arrangements could be easily divined innumerable rooms , all small and inconvenient , and let out at exorbitant rentals . 
However , Victor Chupin's memory had misled him . 
This establishment was not on the right , but on the left hand side of the road , a perfect mire through which M. Fortunat and his companion were obliged to cross . 
Their eyes having become accustomed to the darkness , they could discern sundry details as they approached the building . 
The ground floor comprised two shops , one of which was closed , but the other was still open , and a faint light gleamed through the soiled red curtains . 
Over the frontage appeared the shop keeper's name , Vantrasson , while on either side , in smaller letters , were the words Groceries and Provisions Foreign and French Wines . 
Everything about this den denoted abject poverty and low debauchery . 
M. Fortunat certainly did not recoil , but before entering the shop he was not sorry to have an opportunity to reconnoitre . 
He approached cautiously , and peered through the window at a place where a rent in the curtain allowed him some view of the interior . 
Behind the counter a woman who looked some fifty years of age was seated , mending a soiled dress by the light of a smoking lamp . 
She was short and very stout . 
Her hanging cheeks , her receding forehead , and her thin lips , imparted an alarming expression of wickedness and cunning to her countenance . 
At the farther end of the store Fortunat could vaguely discern the figure of a man seated on a stool . 
He seemed to be asleep , for his crossed arms rested on a table , with his head leaning on them . 
Good luck ! whispered Chupin in his employer's ear there is not a customer in the place . 
Vantrasson and his wife are alone . 
This circumstance was by no means displeasing to M. Fortunat , as could be seen by his expression of face . 
So , m'sieur , continued Chupin , you need have no fears . 
I'll remain here and watch , while you go in . 
On hearing the door open and shut , the woman laid down her work . 
What can I do for monsieur ? she asked , in a wheedling voice . 
M. Fortunat did not reply at once but he drew the note with which he had provided himself from his pocket , and displayed it . 
An execution ! said the woman , whose voice suddenly soured . 
Vantrasson , wake up , and come and see about this . 
He was younger than his wife , tall , with a well proportioned and athletic form . 
His features were regular , but the abuse of alcohol and all sorts of excesses had greatly marred them , and their present expression was one of ferocious brutishness . 
What's that you are talking about ? he asked in a harsh , grating voice . 
M. Fortunat was not guilty of such folly he did not intrust the paper to Vantrasson's hand , but held it a little distance from him , and then read it aloud . 
When he had finished That note fell due eighteen months ago , declared Vantrasson . 
It is worth nothing now You are mistaken a note of this kind is of value any time within five years after the day it goes to protest . 
Possibly but as Barutin has failed , and gone no one knows where , I am released Another mistake on your part . 
And what of that ? Do you suppose I've never been sued for debts before ? Even the king can't take anything from a person who possesses nothing and I own nothing . 
My furniture is all pawned or mortgaged , and my stock is not worth a hundred francs . 
When your employer finds it useless to waste money in worrying me , he'll let me alone . 
You can't injure a man like me . 
Do you really think so ? I'm sure of it . 
Vantrasson rolled his eyes and brandished his formidable fist in the most defiant manner but his wife was evidently much alarmed . 
At last she could bear it no longer , and rising hastily she led her husband to the rear of the shop , saying Come , I must speak with you . 
He followed her , and they remained for some little time conversing together in a low tone , but with excited gestures . 
When they returned , the woman opened the conversation . 
Alas ! sir , she said to M. Fortunat , we have no money just now business is so very bad , and if you prosecute us , we are lost . 
What can be done ? You look like an honest man give us your advice . 
My employer , who isn't a bad man at heart , hasn't the slightest desire for revenge . 
He said to me 'Go and see these Vantrassons , and if they seem to be worthy people , propose a compromise . 
If they choose to accept it , I shall be quite satisfied . 
In exchange I will give you this note of hand . 
The husband and wife exchanged glances , and it was the woman who said We accept . 
But to carry out this arrangement it was necessary to have a sheet of stamped paper , and the spurious clerk had neglected to provide himself with some . 
This circumstance seemed to annoy him greatly , and you might almost have sworn that he regretted the concession he had promised . 
But now that danger had passed and Madame Vantrasson , fearing he might tire of waiting , was prodigal in her attentions . 
She brought him the only unbroken chair in the establishment , and insisted that he should partake of some refreshment a glass of wine at the very least . 
To all appearance , M. Fortunat listened with the mere superficial interest which ordinary politeness requires one to show , but in reality his heart was filled with intense delight . 
Coming here without any clearly defined plan , circumstances had served him a thousand times better than he could reasonably have hoped . 
Ah ! if I were only back in the Count's household again , she exclaimed . 
Six hundred francs a year , and gifts worth double that amount . 
Those were good times for me . 
One evening , to my sorrow , she resumed , I met Vantrasson at a ball . 
It was the th day of the month . 
I might have known no good would come of it . 
Ah , you should have seen him at that time , in full uniform . 
He belonged to the Paris Guards then . 
Ah , these handsome men ! she continued don't talk to me about them ! This one had heard of my savings . 
I had nineteen thousand francs , so he begged me to marry him , and I was fool enough to consent . 
Yes , fool for I was forty , and he was only thirty . 
I might have known it was my money that he wanted , and not me . 
However , I gave up my situation , and even purchased a substitute for him , in order that I might have him all to myself . 
Chupin , who was still at his post outside , experienced a thrill of envy , and involuntarily licked his lips . 
A mixed ratafia , he said , longingly . 
I shouldn't object to one myself . 
However , this choice compound seemed to inspire Madame Vantrasson with renewed energy , for , with still greater earnestness , she resumed At first , all went well . 
We employed my savings in purchasing the Hotel des Espagnes , in the Rue Notre Dame des Victoires , and business prospered there was never a vacant room . 
But any person who has drank , sir , will drink again . 
Vantrasson kept sober for a few months , but gradually he fell into his old habits . 
He was in such a condition most of the time that he was scarcely able to ask for food . 
And if that had been all ! But , unfortunately , he was too handsome a man to be a good husband . 
One night he didn't come home , and the next day , when I ventured to reproach him very gently , I assure you he answered me with an oath and a blow . 
All our happiness was over ! Monsieur declared that he was master , and would do as he liked . 
Business became very bad , and soon everybody left the house . 
We were obliged to sell it . 
We did so , and bought a small cafe . 
But by the end of the year we lost that . 
I lost courage and yet one must live ! Oh , you wouldn't believe it if I told you how we have lived for the past four years . 
Here we live , no one knows how we have to pay our rent each week , and if we are driven from this place , I see no refuge but the river . 
If I had been in your position , I should have left my husband , M. Fortunat ventured to remark . 
Yes it would have been better , no doubt . 
People advised me to do so , and I tried . 
Three or four times I went away , and yet I always returned it was stronger than myself . 
Besides , I'm his wife I've paid dearly for him he's mine I won't yield him to any one else . 
A looker on would have supposed him interested and sympathetic to the last degree but in reality , he was furious . 
Time was passing , and the conversation was wandering farther and farther from the object of his visit . 
I am surprised , madame , said he , that you never applied to your former employer , the Count de Chalusse . 
M. Fortunat raised his hands to the ceiling . 
Five thousand francs ! he repeated , in a tone of astonishment this count must be very rich So rich , monsieur , that he doesn't know how much he's worth . 
He owns , nobody knows how many houses in Paris , chateaux in every part of the country , entire villages , forests his gold comes in by the shovelful . 
The spurious clerk closed his eyes , as if he were dazzled by this vision of wealth . 
The second time I went to the count's house , resumed Madame Vantrasson , I didn't see him , but he sent me a thousand francs . 
The third and last time they gave me twenty francs at the door , and told me that the count had gone on a journey . 
I understood that I could hope for no further help from him . 
Besides , all the servants had been changed . 
One morning , without any apparent reason , M. de Chalusse dismissed all the old servants , so they told me . 
He even sent away the concierge and the housekeeper . 
Why didn't you apply to his wife ? M. de Chalusse isn't married . 
He never has been married . 
From the expression of solicitude upon her guest's features , Madame Vantrasson supposed he was racking his brain to discover some mode of escape from her present difficulties . 
If I were in your place , he said , I should try to interest his relatives and family in my case The count has no relatives . 
Impossible ! He hasn't , indeed . 
People pretend that this is the reason why he is so immensely rich . 
M. Fortunat's interest was no longer assumed he was rapidly approaching the real object of his visit . 
No relatives ! he muttered . 
Who , then , will inherit his millions when he dies ? Madame Vantrasson jerked her head . 
Who can say ? she replied . 
Everything will go to the government , probably , unless But no , that's impossible . 
I was thinking of the count's sister , Mademoiselle Hermine . 
His sister ! Why , you said just now that he had no relatives . 
It's the same as if he hadn't no one knows what has become of her , poor creature ! Some say that she married others declare that she died . 
Let me see , said he I think I am sure that I have heard or that I have read I cannot say which some story about a Mademoiselle de Chalusse . 
It was something terrible , wasn't it ? Terrible , indeed . 
But what I was speaking of happened a long time ago twenty five or twenty six years ago , at the very least . 
I was still in my own part of the country at Besancon . 
No one knows the exact truth about the affair . 
What ! not even you ? Oh ! I that's an entirely different thing . 
But he was experienced in these examinations , and he had at his command little tricks for loosening tongues , which even an investigating magistrate might have envied . 
Without seeming to attach the slightest importance to Madame Vantrasson's narrative , he rose with a startled air , like a man who suddenly realizes that he has forgotten himself . 
Zounds ! he exclaimed , we sit here gossiping , and it's growing late . 
I really can't wait for your husband . 
If I remain here any longer , I shall miss the last omnibus and I live on the other side of the river , near the Luxembourg . 
But our agreement , monsieur ? We will draw that up at some future time . 
I shall be passing again , or I will send one of my colleagues to see you . 
It was Madame Vantrasson's turn to tremble now . 
Wait just a moment longer , monsieur , she pleaded my husband will soon be back , and the last omnibus doesn't leave the Rue de Levis until midnight . 
I wouldn't refuse , but this part of the suburbs is so lonely . 
Vantrasson will see you on your way . 
Concealing his delight with an assumed air of resignation , M. Fortunat reseated himself , to the intense disgust of Chupin , who was thoroughly tired of waiting outside in the cold . 
I must tell you , began Madame Vantrasson , that when this happened at least twenty five years ago the De Chalusse family lived in the Rue Saint Dominique . 
They occupied a superb mansion , with extensive grounds , full of splendid trees like those in the Tuileries gardens . 
Mademoiselle Hermine , who was then about eighteen or nineteen years old , was , according to all accounts , the prettiest young creature ever seen . 
Her skin was as white as milk , she had a profusion of golden hair , and her eyes were as blue as forget me nots . 
That's the count's nature exactly . 
The parents had arranged the matter between them years before , and nothing was wanting but the young lady's consent but Mademoiselle Hermine absolutely refused to hear the marquis's name mentioned . 
They did everything to persuade her to consent to this marriage they employed prayers and threats alike , but they might as well have talked to a stone . 
When they asked her why she refused to marry the marquis , she replied , 'Because' and that was all . 
In fact , at last she declared she would leave home and take refuge in a convent , if they didn't cease to torment her . 
Her relatives were certain there must be some reason for her refusal . 
It isn't natural for a girl to reject a suitor who is young , handsome , rich , and a marquis besides . 
Her friends suspected there was something she wouldn't confess and M. Raymond swore that he would watch his sister , and discover her secret . 
M. Raymond is the present Count de Chalusse , suppose ? inquired M. Fortunat . 
Such was the state of matters when , one night , the gardener thought he heard a noise in the pavilion , at the end of the garden . 
This pavilion was very large . 
It contained a sitting room , a billiard room , and a large fencing hall . 
Naturally enough , the gardener got up to go and see what was the matter . 
As he left the house , he fancied he saw two persons moving about among the trees . 
He ran after them , but could find nothing . 
They had made their escape through a small gate leading from the garden into the street . 
However , he hurried to the pavilion , but on seeing no light there , he went back to bed with an easy mind . 
And it was Mademoiselle Hermine eloping with a lover ? asked M. Fortunat . 
Madame Vantrasson seemed as disappointed as an actor who has been deprived of an opportunity of producing a grand effect . 
Wait a moment , she replied , and you'll see . 
The night passed , morning came , and then the breakfast hour . 
But Mademoiselle Hermine did not make her appearance . 
Some one was sent to rap at her door there was no answer . 
The door was opened the young lady was not in her room , and the bed had not even been disturbed . 
In a few moments the whole household was in the wildest commotion the mother weeping , and the father half wild with rage and sorrow . 
Of course , the next thought was of Mademoiselle Hermine's brother , and he was sent for . 
But , he , too , was not in his room , and his bed had not been touched . 
The excitement was becoming frenzy , when it occurred to the gardener to mention what he had heard and seen on the previous night . 
They hastened to the pavilion , and discovered what ? Why , M. Raymond stretched upon the ground , stiff , cold , and motionless , weltering in his own blood . 
One of his rigid hands still grasped a sword . 
They lifted him up , carried him to the house , laid him upon his bed , and sent for a physician . 
He had received two dangerous wounds one in the throat , the other in the breast . 
For more than a month he hung between life and death , and six weeks elapsed before he had strength to relate what had happened . 
He was lighting a cigar at his window when he thought he saw a woman's form flit through the garden . 
He might have killed the intruder , but instead of doing so , he told him they would fight then and there . 
Weapons were within reach , and they fought , with the result that Raymond was wounded twice , in quick succession , and fell . 
His adversary , supposing him dead , thereupon fled from the spot , taking Mademoiselle Hermine with him . 
At this point in her narrative Madame Vantrasson evinced a desire to pause and draw a breath , and perhaps partake of some slight refreshment but M. Fortunat was impatient . 
The woman's husband might return at any moment . 
And , after that ? he inquired . 
After that well M. Raymond recovered , and in about three months' time he was out again but the parents , who were old folks , had received their death blow . 
They never rallied from the shock . 
Perhaps they felt that it was their own hard heartedness and obstinacy that had caused their daughter's ruin and remorse is hard to bear . 
They waned perceptibly from day to day , and during the following year they were borne to the cemetery within two months of each other . 
From the spurious clerk's demeanor it was easy to see that he had ceased thinking about his omnibus , and his hostess felt both reassured and flattered . 
And Mademoiselle Hermine ? he inquired , eagerly . 
Alas ! monsieur , no one ever knew where she went , or what became of her . 
M. Raymond promised an enormous sum to the man who would find his sister's betrayer . 
He wished to kill him , and he sought for him for years but all in vain . 
And did they never receive any tidings of this unfortunate girl ? I was told that they heard from her twice . 
On the morning following her flight her parents received a letter , in which she implored their forgiveness . 
Five or six months later , she wrote again to say that she knew her brother was not dead . 
She confessed that she was a wicked , ungrateful girl that she had been mad but she said that her punishment had come , and it was terrible . 
She added that every link was severed between herself and her friends , and she hoped they would forget her as completely as if she had never existed . 
It was the old , sad story of a ruined girl paying for a moment's madness with her happiness and all her after life . 
A terrible drama , no doubt but one that is of such frequent occurrence that it seems as commonplace as life itself . 
Thus any one who was acquainted with M. Isidore Fortunat would have been surprised to see how greatly he was moved by such a trifle . 
Poor girl ! said he , in view of saying something . 
And then , in a tone of assumed carelessness , he inquired Did they never discover what scoundrel carried Mademoiselle de Chalusse away ? Never . 
Who he was , whence he came , whether he was young or old , how he became acquainted with Mademoiselle Hermine these questions were never answered . 
It was rumored at one time that he was an American , a captain in the navy but that was only a rumor . 
To tell the truth , they never even discovered his name . 
What , not even his name ? Not even his name . 
Unable to master his emotion , M. Fortunat had at least the presence of mind to rise and step back into the darker part of the shop . 
But his gesture of disappointment and the muttered oath that fell from his lips did not escape Madame Vantrasson . 
She was startled , and from that moment she looked upon the supposed clerk with evident distrust . 
It was not long before he again resumed his seat nearer the counter , still a trifle pale , perhaps , but apparently calm . 
Two questions more seemed indispensable to him , and yet either one of them would be sure to arouse suspicion . 
Nevertheless , he resolved to incur the risk of betraying himself . 
I can confess now that I am slightly acquainted with the Count de Chalusse , and that I have frequently visited the house in the Rue de Courcelles , where he now resides . 
You ! exclaimed the woman , taking a hasty inventory of M. Fortunat's toilette . 
Yes , I on the part of my employer , understand . 
Each time I've been to visit M. de Chalusse's I've seen a young lady whom I took for his daughter there . 
I was wrong , no doubt , since he isn't a married man He paused . 
Astonishment and anger seemed to be almost suffocating his hostess . 
Without understanding how or why , she felt convinced that she had been duped and if she had obeyed her first impulse she would have attacked M. Isidore then and there . 
If she restrained this impulse , if she made an effort to control herself , it was only because she thought she held a better revenge in reserve . 
A young lady in the count's house ! she said , thoughtfully . 
I've never seen her I've never heard her spoken of . 
How long has she been there ? For six or seven months ? In that case , I can't absolutely deny it . 
It's two years since I set foot in the count's house . 
I fancied this young lady might be the count's niece Mademoiselle Hermine's daughter . 
Madame Vantrasson shook her head . 
Put that fancy out of your head , she remarked . 
The count said that his sister was dead to him from the evening of her flight . 
Who CAN this young girl be , then ? Bless me ! I don't know . 
What sort of a looking person is she ? Very tall a brunette . 
How old is she ? Eighteen or nineteen . 
The woman made a rapid calculation on her fingers . 
Nine and four are thirteen , she muttered , and five are eighteen . 
Ah , ha ! why not ? I must look into this . 
What did you say ? Nothing a little reflection I was making to myself . 
Do you know this young lady's name ? It's Marguerite . 
No it can't be then , she muttered , in a scarcely audible voice . 
M. Fortunat was on coals of fire . 
It was evident that this frightful creature , even if she knew nothing definite , had some idea , some vague suspicion of the truth . 
He was scarcely sober when he left the shop , but now he was fairly drunk his heavy shamble had become a stagger . 
And to prove it he tumbled on to a chair . 
But as matters stood there was nothing to fear . 
It was a case where one could show a brave front to the enemy without incurring the slightest danger . 
Let your husband alone , said he . 
If he has only brought the paper that he was sent to fetch , I sha'n't have lost my evening to oblige you . 
Vantrasson had brought not one sheet of stamped paper , but two . 
A bad pen and some muddy ink were produced , and M. Fortunat began to draw up an acknowledgment according to the established formula . 
Chupin ! repeated the vixen , as if to engrave the name on her memory Victor Chupin ! I should just like to see him , she added , viciously . 
When the document was finished , it became necessary to wake Vantrasson , so that he might sign it . 
He did so with very good grace , and his wife appended her signature beside her husband's . 
Thereupon M. Fortunat gave them in exchange the note which had served as a pretext for his visit . 
And above all , he remarked , as he opened the door to go , don't forget that you are to pay something on account each month . 
Go to the devil , and your account with you ! growled Madame Vantrasson . 
But Fortunat did not hear this . 
If ever I come here again , I'll bring a foot warmer with me . 
But one of those fits of profound abstraction to which determined seekers after truth are subject had taken possession of M. Fortunat , and made him oblivious of all surrounding circumstances . 
Chupin was obliged to stop him at the city gate , and remind him that the cab was waiting . 
That's true , was M. Fortunat's only answer . 
My forty thousand francs are in a precarious condition . 
Here are twenty francs , Victor , he said to Chupin . 
Pay the driver , and keep the rest yourself . 
As he spoke , he sprang nimbly to the ground . 
A handsome brougham , drawn by two horses , was standing before the house . 
The Marquis de Valorsay's carriage , muttered M. Fortunat . 
He has been very patient he has waited for me or , rather , he has waited for my ten thousand francs . 
Well , we shall see . 
M. Fortunat had scarcely started off on his visit to the Vantrassons when the Marquis de Valorsay reached the Place de la Bourse . 
Monsieur has gone out , said Madame Dodelin , as she opened the door . 
You must be mistaken , my good woman . 
No , no my master said you would , perhaps , wait for him . 
Very well I will do so . 
Faithful to the orders she had received , the servant conducted the visitor to the drawing room , lit the tapers in the candelabra , and retired . 
This is very strange ! growled the marquis . 
By his habits and tastes , the Marquis de Valorsay belonged to that section of the aristocracy which has coined the term high life in view of describing its own manners and customs . 
These acts of valor had raised him considerably in the estimation of his friends , and procured him a celebrity of which he was not a little proud . 
The newspaper reporters were constantly mentioning his name , and the sporting journals never failed to chronicle his departure from Paris or his arrival in the city . 
Unfortunately , such a life of busy idleness has its trials and its vicissitudes , and M. de Valorsay was a living proof of this . 
He was only thirty three , but in spite of the care he expended upon his toilette , he looked at least forty . 
Premature lassitude pervaded his entire person , and when he relaxed in vigilance even his eyes betrayed a distaste for everything weariness , satiety as it were . 
All the same , however , he bore himself with an undeniable air of distinction , albeit the haughtiness of his manner indicated an exaggerated idea of his own importance . 
He was indeed in the habit of treating all those whom he considered his inferiors with supercilious sufficiency . 
The clock on M. Fortunat's mantel shelf struck eleven at last and the marquis rose to his feet with a muttered oath . 
This is too much ! he growled , angrily . 
He looked about for a bell , and seeing none , he was reduced to the dire necessity of opening the door himself , and calling some one . 
Madame Dodelin answered the summons . 
Monsieur said he would return before midnight , she replied so he will certainly be here . 
There is no one like him for punctuality . 
The servant hesitated for an instant , thinking this visitor difficult to please , and inclined to make himself very much at home , still she obeyed . 
I think I ought to go , muttered the marquis . 
I really think I ought to go . 
Necessity , it should be remembered , effectually quiets the revolts of pride . 
His name entitled him to a high position in the social world and he installed himself at table without asking how much the banquet might cost him . 
It cost him dear , as he discovered at the end of the first year , on noting that his disbursements had considerably exceeded his large income . 
He possessed several fine estates , and he found plenty of men who were only too glad to lend him money on such excellent security . 
He borrowed timidly at first , but more boldly when he discovered what a mere trifle a mortgage is . 
Moreover , his wants increased in proportion to his vanity . 
He failed to pay his creditors the interest that was due on his loans . 
He never thought what the end would be . 
He became absolutely ignorant of the condition of his affairs , and really arrived at the conclusion that his resources were inexhaustible . 
And do not hope for more . 
All your real estate is encumbered beyond its value . 
You undoubtedly understand what I mean . 
I have the honor to wish you good morning . 
What an awakening after a glorious dream that had lasted for ten years . 
M. de Valorsay was stunned crushed . 
For three days he remained immured in his own room , obstinately refusing to receive any one . 
The marquis is ill , was his valet's answer to every visitor . 
M. de Valorsay felt that he must have time to regain his mental equilibrium to look his situation calmly in the face . 
It was a frightful one , for his ruin was complete , absolute . 
He could save nothing from the wreck . 
What was to become of him ? What could he do ? He set his wits to work but he found that he was incapable of plying any kind of avocation . 
All the energy he had been endowed with by nature had been squandered exhausted in pandering to his self conceit . 
If he had been younger he might have turned soldier but at his age he had not even this resource . 
Then it was that his notary's smile recurred to his mind . 
His advice was decidedly good , he muttered . 
All is not yet lost one way of escape still remains marriage . 
His name alone was a great advantage . 
It would be very strange if he could not find some manufacturer's or banker's daughter who would be only too delighted to have a marquisial coronet emblazoned on her carriage panels . 
Having arrived at this conclusion , M. de Valorsay began his search , and it was not long before he thought he had found what he was seeking . 
But something was still necessary . 
Accordingly , before committing himself , M. de Valorsay understood that it was necessary he should provide himself with an intelligent and devoted adviser . 
Then touched , perhaps , by his client's apparent despair , he said , But I can mention a person who might be of service to you . 
Go to M. Isidore Fortunat , No. Place de la Bourse . 
If you succeed in interesting him in your marriage , it is an accomplished fact . 
It was under these circumstances that the marquis became acquainted with M. Fortunat . 
M. de Valorsay was a man of no little penetration , and on his first visit he carefully weighed his new acquaintance . 
With such an adviser , it would be mere child's play to conceal his financial embarrassments and deceive the most suspicious father in law . 
So M. de Valorsay did not hesitate a moment . 
After a prolonged conference , the agreement was drawn up and signed , and that very day M. Fortunat took the nobleman's interests in hand . 
And in M. de Valorsay's eyes this was a great consideration for he was becoming more arrogant and more irascible in proportion as his right to be so diminished . 
According as his humor was good or bad , he called him my dear extortioner , Mons . 
Fortunat , or Master Twenty per cent . 
But though these sneers and insults drove the obsequious smile from M. Fortunat's lips , he was quite capable of including them in the bill under the head of sundries . 
The unvarying deference and submission which M. de Valorsay's adviser displayed made his failure to keep the present appointment all the more remarkable . 
Such neglect of the commonest rules of courtesy was inconceivable on the part of so polite a man and the marquis's anger gradually changed to anxiety . 
What can have happened ? he thought . 
At last here he is ! he muttered , with a sigh of relief . 
He expected to see M. Fortunat enter the room at once , but he was disappointed . 
The agent had no desire to show himself in the garb which he had assumed for his excursion with Chupin and so he had hastened to his room to don his wonted habiliments . 
He also desired a few moments for deliberation . 
Meanwhile the marquis was thinking he was a trifle late about it that he had done wrong to wait in that drawing room for three mortal hours . 
So he resorted to a stratagem which seemed to him likely to save his compromised dignity . 
He stretched himself out in his arm chair , closed his eyes , and pretended to doze . 
He noticed , on the floor , a torn and crumpled newspaper , which betrayed the impatience and anger his client had experienced during his long waiting . 
Well , resumed the marquis , what time is it ? Half past twelve ? This is a pretty time to keep an appointment fixed for ten o'clock . 
You must excuse me , Monsieur le Marquis , said he . 
If I remained out so much later than usual , it was only because your business interests detained me . 
The marquis had resumed his seat in the chimney corner , and was poking the fire with a haughty , but poorly assumed air of indifference . 
I am listening , he said carelessly . 
In that case , Monsieur le Marquis , I will state the facts in a few words , without going into particulars . 
Thanks to an expedient devised by me , we shall obtain for twenty hours a release from all the mortgages that now encumber your estates . 
On that very day we will request a certificate from the recorder . 
The plan was very simple the only difficulty was about raising the money , but I have succeeded in doing so . 
All your creditors but two lent themselves very readily to the arrangement . 
I have now won the consent of the two who at first refused , but we shall have to pay dearly for it . 
It will cost you about twenty six thousand francs . 
M. de Valorsay was so delighted that he could not refrain from clapping his hands . 
Then the affair is virtually concluded , he exclaimed . 
In less than a month Mademoiselle Marguerite will be the Marquise de Valorsay , and I shall have a hundred thousand francs a year again . 
Then , noting how gravely M. Fortunat shook his head Ah ! so you doubt it ! he cried . 
Very well now it is your turn to listen . 
Yesterday I had a long conference with the Count de Chalusse , and everything has been settled . 
We exchanged our word of honor , Master Twenty per cent . 
The count does things in a princely fashion he gives Mademoiselle Marguerite two millions . 
Two millions ! the other repeated like an echo . 
Yes , my dear miser , neither more nor less . 
Only for private reasons , which he did not explain , the count stipulates that only two hundred thousand francs shall appear in the marriage contract . 
The remaining eighteen hundred thousand francs , he gives to me unreservedly and unconditionally . 
Upon my word , I think this very charming . 
How does it strike you ? M. Fortunat made no reply . 
M. de Valorsay's gayety , instead of cheering , saddened him . 
In this respect it is true that the match is not exactly a brilliant one . 
Still , as it will appear that she merely has a fortune of two hundred thousand francs , no one will accuse me of marrying for money on the strength of my name . 
On the contrary , it will seem to be a love match , and people will suppose that I have grown young again . 
He paused , incensed by M. Fortunat's lack of enthusiasm . 
Judging from your long face , Master Twenty per cent , one would fancy you doubted my success , he said . 
It is always best to doubt , replied his adviser , philosophically . 
The marquis shrugged his shoulders . 
Even when one has triumphed over all obstacles ? he asked sneeringly . 
Then , tell me , if you please , what prevents this marriage from being a foregone conclusion ? Mademoiselle Marguerite's consent , Monsieur le Marquis . 
It was as if a glass of ice water had been thrown in M. de Valorsay's face . 
He started , turned as pale as death , and then exclaimed I shall have that I am sure of it . 
You could not say that M. Fortunat was angry . 
Such a man , as cold and as smooth as a hundred franc piece , has no useless passions . 
So , far from being touched by the marquis's evident alarm , it pleased him to be able to turn the dagger in the wound he had just inflicted . 
You must excuse my incredulity , said he . 
It comes entirely from something you , yourself , told me about a week ago . 
What did I tell you ? That you suspected Mademoiselle Marguerite of a how shall I express it ? of a secret preference for some other person . 
The gloomiest despondency had now followed the marquis's enthusiasm and exultation . 
He was evidently in torture . 
I more than suspected it , said he . 
Ah ! I was certain of it , thanks to the count's house keeper , Madame Leon , a miserable old woman whom I have hired to look after my interests . 
She has been watching Mademoiselle Marguerite , and saw a letter written by her Oh ! Certainly nothing has passed that Mademoiselle Marguerite has any cause to blush for . 
The letter , which is now in my possession , contains unmistakable proofs of that . 
She might proudly avow the love she has inspired , and which she undoubtedly returns . 
Yet M. Fortunat's gaze was so intent that it became unbearable . 
You see , then , he began , that I had good cause to fear Exasperated beyond endurance , M. de Valorsay sprang up so violently that he overturned his chair . 
No ! he exclaimed , no , a thousand times no ! You are wrong for the man who loves Mademoiselle Marguerite is now ruined . 
Yes , such is really the case . 
While we are sitting here , at this very moment , he is lost irredeemably lost . 
Between him and the woman whom I wish to marry whom I SHALL marry I have dug so broad and deep an abyss that the strongest love cannot overleap it . 
It is better and worse than if I had killed him . 
M. Fortunat seemed greatly disturbed . 
Have you then put into execution the project the plan you spoke of ? he faltered . 
I thought you were only jesting . 
The marquis lowered his head . 
Had he caught a glimpse of his own face in the looking glass , it would have frightened him . 
A gentleman ! he repeated , in a tone of suppressed rage a gentleman ! That word is in everybody's mouth , nowadays . 
Pray , what do you understand by a gentleman , Mons . 
I am no saint ! I love life and all that makes life beautiful and desirable and to procure its pleasures I must fight with the weapons of the age . 
This man is in my way I suppress him so much the worse for him he has no business to be in my way . 
I could not choose my means . 
The drowning man does not reject the plank , which is his only chance of salvation , because it chances to be dirty . 
You have been guilty of a most infamous act , Monsieur le Marquis , said M. Fortunat , coldly . 
Oh ! no moralizing , if you please . 
Only evil will come of it . 
The marquis shrugged his shoulders , and in a tone of bitter scorn , retorted Come , Mons . 
Fortunat , if you wish to lose the forty thousand francs you advanced to me , it's easy enough to do so . 
Run to Madame d'Argeles's house , ask for M. de Coralth , and tell him I countermand my order . 
My rival will be saved , and will marry Mademoiselle Marguerite and her millions . 
He could not tell the marquis My forty thousand francs are lost already . 
I know that only too well . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite is no longer the possessor of millions , and you have committed a useless crime . 
However , it was this conviction which imparted such an accent of eagerness to his words as he continued to plead the cause of virtue and of honesty . 
The marquis listened to his agent for a few moments in silence , and then rose to his feet again . 
All this is very true , he interrupted but I am , nevertheless , anxious to learn the result of my little plot . 
For this reason , Monsieur Fortunat , give me at once the five hundred louis you promised me , and I will then bid you good evening . 
The agent had been preparing himself for this moment , and yet he trembled . 
I am deeply grieved , monsieur , he replied , with a doleful smile it was this matter that kept me out so much later than usual this evening . 
Ah , well ! it was impossible for me to procure the money . 
The marquis had hitherto been pale , but now his face flushed crimson . 
This is a jest , I suppose , said he . 
M. de Valorsay was anything but unsophisticated , and his natural shrewdness had been rendered much more acute by the difficulties with which he had recently been obliged to contend . 
M. Fortunat's confusion had not escaped his keen glance and this last suggestion aroused his suspicions at once . 
What ! he said , slowly , and with an air of evident distrust . 
YOU give me this advice , Master Twenty per cent . 
This is wonderful ! How long is it since your opinions have undergone such a change ? My opinions ? Yes . 
Didn't you say to me during our first interview 'The thing that will save you , is that you have never in your while life borrowed a louis from a friend . 
An ordinary creditor only thinks of a large interest and if that is paid him he holds his peace . 
A friend is never satisfied until everybody knows that he has generously obliged you . 
It is far better to apply to a usurer . 
Go without eating rather than do it . 
M. Fortunat's embarrassment was really painful to witness . 
He was not usually wanting in courage , but the events of the evening had shaken his confidence and his composure . 
The hope of gain and the fear of loss had deprived him of his wonted clearness of mind . 
Feeling that he had just committed a terrible blunder , he racked his brain to find some way of repairing it , and finding none , his confusion increased . 
Did you , or didn't you , use that language ? insisted M. de Valorsay . 
What have you to say in reply ? Circumstances What circumstances ? Urgent need necessity . 
There is no rule without its exceptions . 
I did not imagine you would be so rash . 
I have advanced you forty thousand francs in less than five months it is outrageous . 
He was furious with himself . 
I am losing my wits , he thought . 
Still more wise counsel , remarked the ruined nobleman ironically . 
Better than any one else you know that I cannot retrench , although the reality no longer exists . 
I am condemned , cost what it may , to keep up appearances . 
That is my only hope of salvation . 
I have gambled , given expensive suppers , indulged in dissipation of every kind , and I must continue to do so . 
I have come to hate Ninette Simplon , for whom I have committed so many acts of folly , and yet I still keep her to show that I am rolling in wealth . 
I have thrown thousand franc notes out of the window , and I mustn't stop throwing them . 
Indeed , what would people say if I stopped ! Why , 'Valorsay is a ruined man ! Then , farewell to my hopes of marrying an heiress . 
And so I am always gay and smiling that is part of my role . 
People would recognize them at once besides , they form a part of my stock in trade . 
He was sure that the morrow would be like the day that preceded it . 
On that occasion my entire fortune consisted of a single louis , which I had won at baccarat the evening before . 
As I entered the enclosure , Isabelle , the flower girl , handed me a rose for my button hole . 
And for eight months I have lived this horrible life ! he resumed . 
For eight months each moment has been so much torture . 
Some one will certainly do M. Fortunat an injury one of these days , she thought . 
Taking advantage of an opportunity which M. de Valorsay furnished , on pausing to draw breath , he hastily exclaimed , Really , Monsieur le Marquis , I cannot understand your anger . 
What ! scoundrel ! Excuse me . 
Before insulting me , permit me to explain No explanation five hundred louis ! Have the kindness to allow me to finish . 
Yes , I know that you are in urgent need of money not by and by , but now . 
The marquis seemed to be trying to read his agent's very soul . 
Are you in earnest ? he asked . 
If you don't intend to help me out of my embarrassment , say so . 
And seeing a lingering doubt in his client's eyes , M. Fortunat added , You have my word of honor ! The clock struck three . 
The marquis took his hat and started toward the door . 
But M. Fortunat , in whose heart the word scoundrel was still rankling , stopped him . 
Are you going to that lady's house now ? What is she called ? I've forgotten her name . 
Ah , yes , I remember now . 
Madame d'Argeles , isn't she called ? It's at her place , I believe , that the reputation of Mademoiselle Marguerite's favored lover is to be ruined . 
What do you take me for , Master Twenty per cent ? he rudely asked . 
That is one of those things no well bred gentleman will do himself . 
But in Paris people can be found to do any kind of dirty work , if you are willing to pay them for it . 
Then how will you know the result ? Why , twenty minutes after the affair is over , M. de Coralth will be at my house . 
He is there even now , perhaps . 
And as this subject was anything but pleasant , he hastened away , exclaiming , Get to bed , my dear extortioner . 
And , above all , remember your promise . 
My respects , Monsieur le Marquis . 
But when the door closed , M. Fortunat's expression immediately changed . 
Ah ! you insult me ! he muttered sullenly . 
You rob me , and you call me a scoundrel into the bargain . 
You shall pay dearly for it , my fine fellow , no matter what may happen ! IV . 
It is in vain that the law has endeavored to shield private life from prying eyes . 
The scribes who pander to Parisian curiosity surmount all obstacles and brave every danger . 
Her guests find plenty of amusement there . 
They seldom dance but card playing begins at midnight , and a dainty supper is served before the departure of the guests . 
It was on leaving one of these little entertainments that that unfortunate young man , Jules Chazel , a cashier in a large banking house , committed suicide by blowing out his brains . 
The brilliant frequenters of Madame d'Argeles's entertainments considered this act proof of exceeding bad taste and deplorable weakness on his part . 
The fellow was a coward , they declared . 
Why , he had lost hardly a thousand louis ! He had lost only that , it is true a mere trifle as times go . 
Only the money was not his he had taken it from the safe which was confided to his keeping , expecting , probably , to double the amount in a single night . 
The event created a great sensation at the time , and the Petit Journal published a curious story concerning this unfortunate young man's mother . 
Not at all , however on the contrary , she had good cause to congratulate herself upon the notoriety she gained through this suicide . 
For five days she was the talk of Paris , and Alfred d'Aunay even published her portrait in the Illustrated Chronicle . 
Still , no one was able to say exactly who Madame Lia d'Argeles was . 
He had an exceedingly fair complexion , and large , melting black eyes , while a woman might have envied him his wavy brown hair and the exquisite delicacy of his skin . 
How late you are , viscount , she remarked carelessly . 
What have you been doing to day ? I fancied I saw you in the Bois , in the Marquis de Valorsay's dog cart . 
Your friends are always welcome at my house , my dear viscount , replied Madame d'Argeles . 
And before Pascal had concluded his bow , she averted her head , and resumed her interrupted conversation . 
The new comer , however , was worthy of more than that cursory notice . 
His features were irregular , but they gave evidence of energy , kindness of heart , and honesty of purpose . 
A man possessing such a proud , intelligent , and open brow , such a clear , straightforward gaze , and such finely cut lips , could be no ordinary one . 
He did his best to conceal his curiosity , but nevertheless he looked and listened with all his might . 
The salon , was an immense apartment , divided into two rooms by sliding doors and hangings . 
The card room , into which Pascal had been ushered , was an apartment of noble proportions , furnished in a style of tasteful magnificence . 
The tints of the carpet were subdued there was not too much gilding on the cornices the clock upon the mantel shelf was chaste and elegant in design . 
Madame d'Argeles's guests were probably not over fifty in number , but they all seemed to belong to the very best society . 
The majority of them were men of forty or thereabouts several wore decorations , and two or three of the eldest were treated with marked deference . 
Certain well known names which Pascal overheard surprised him greatly . 
What ! these men here ? he said to himself and I I regarded my visit as a sort of clandestine frolic . 
There were only seven or eight ladies present , none of them being especially attractive . 
Their toilettes were very costly , but in rather doubtful taste , and they wore a profusion of diamonds . 
It surprised him to note that every one spoke in very low tones there was something very like respect , even awe , in this subdued murmur . 
One might have supposed that those present were celebrating the rites of some mysterious worship . 
What singular people ! And he turned his attention to the mistress of the house , as if he hoped to decipher the solution of the enigma on her face . 
But Madame Lia d'Argeles defied all analysis . 
A perfect blonde , she had eyes of so clear a blue that they seemed almost faded . 
The whiteness of her skin was so unnatural that it almost startled one . 
Her face was utterly devoid of expression . 
She wore a dress of black velvet , with slashed sleeves and bodice , a new design of the famous man milliner , Van Klopen . 
Pascal was engaged in these observations when M. de Coralth , having made his round , came and sat down on the sofa beside him . 
Well , what do you think of it ? he inquired . 
Upon my word ! replied the young advocate , I am infinitely obliged to you for inviting me to accompany you here . 
Good ! My philosopher is captivated . 
Not captivated , but interested , I confess . 
Then , in the tone of good humor which was habitual to him , he added As for being the sage you call me , that's all nonsense . 
And to prove it , I'm going to risk my louis with the rest . 
M. de Coralth seemed amazed , but a close observer might have detected a gleam of triumph in his eyes . 
You are going to play you ? Yes . 
Why not ? Take care ! Of what , pray ? The worst I can do is to lose what I have in my pocket something over two hundred francs . 
The viscount shook his head thoughtfully . 
It isn't that which one has cause to fear . 
The devil always has a hand in this business , and the first time a man plays he's sure to win . 
And is that a misfortune ? Yes , because the recollection of these first winnings is sure to lure you back to the gaming table again . 
You go back , you lose , you try to recover your money , and that's the end of it you become a gambler . 
Pascal Ferailleur's smile was the smile of a man who has full confidence in himself . 
My brain is not so easily turned , I hope , said he . 
I have the thought of my name , and the fortune I must make , as ballast for it . 
I beseech you not to play , insisted the viscount . 
Listen to me you don't know what this passion for play is the strongest and the coldest natures succumb don't play . 
He had raised his voice , as if he intended to be overheard by two guests who had just approached the sofa . 
They did indeed hear him . 
Can I believe my own eyes and ears ! exclaimed one of them , an elderly man . 
I have purchased with my patrimony the right of saying 'Distrust yourself , and don't do as I've done , to an inexperienced friend . 
The wisest counsels , given in a certain fashion , never fail to produce an effect diametrically opposed to that which they seemingly aim at . 
You are free , my friend , to do as you please , said he but I Are you resolved ? interrupted the viscount . 
So be it , then . 
You are no longer a child , and I have warned you . 
Let us play , then . 
Thereupon they approached the table room was made for them , and they seated themselves , Pascal being on M. Ferdinand de Coralth's right hand side . 
The guests were playing Baccarat tournant , a game of terrible and infantile simplicity . 
There are no such things as skill or combination possible in it science and calculation are useless . 
Chance alone decides , and decides with the rapidity of lightning . 
Amateurs certainly assert that , with great coolness and long practice , one can , in a measure at least , avert prolonged ill luck . 
Maybe they are right , but it is not conclusively proved . 
Each person takes the cards in his turn , risks what he chooses , and when his stakes are covered , deals . 
If he wins , he is free to follow up his vein of good luck , or to pass the deal . 
When he loses , the deal passes at once to the next player on the right . 
A moment sufficed for Pascal Ferailleur to learn the rules of the game . 
It was already Ferdinand's deal . 
M. de Coralth staked a hundred francs the bet was taken he dealt , lost , and handed the cards to Pascal . 
The play , which had been rather timid at first since it was necessary , as they say , to try the luck had now become bolder . 
Several players had large piles of gold before them , and the heavy artillery that is to say , bank notes were beginning to put in appearance . 
But Pascal had no false pride . 
I stake a louis ! said he The smallness of the sum attracted instant attention , and two or three voices replied Taken ! He dealt , and won . 
Two louis ! he said again . 
this wager was also taken he won , and his run of luck was so remarkable that , in a wonderfully short space of time , he won six hundred francs . 
Pass the deal , whispered Ferdinand , and Pascal followed this advice . 
But such prudence was unnecessary so far as he was concerned . 
When the deal came to him again , fortune favored him even more than before . 
He started with a hundred francs , and doubling them each time in six successive deals , he won more than three thousand francs . 
The devil ! Monsieur is in luck . 
Zounds ! And he is playing for the first time . 
Pascal could not fail to hear these comments . 
The blood mantled over his cheeks , and , conscious that he was flushing , he , as usually happens , flushed still more . 
His good fortune embarrassed him , as was evident , and he played most recklessly . 
Still his good luck did not desert him and do what he would he won won continually . 
In fact , by four o'clock in the morning he had thirty five thousand francs before him . 
For some time he had been the object of close attention . 
Do you know this gentleman ? inquired one of the guests . 
No. He came with Coralth . 
He is an advocate , I understand . 
He was really becoming most uncomfortable , when Madame d'Argeles approached the card table and exclaimed This is the third time , gentlemen , that you have been told that supper is ready . 
What gentleman will offer me his arm ? There was an evident unwillingness to leave the table , but an old gentleman who had been losing heavily rose to his feet . 
Yes , let us go to supper ! he exclaimed perhaps that will change the luck . 
This was a decisive consideration . 
The room emptied as if by magic and no one was left at the table but Pascal , who scarcely knew what to do with all the gold piled up before him . 
He succeeded , however , in distributing it in his pockets , and was about to join the other guests in the dining room , when Madame d'Argeles abruptly barred his passage . 
I desire a word with you , monsieur , she said . 
Her face still retained its strange immobility , and the same stereotyped smile played about her lips . 
And yet her agitation was so evident that Pascal , in spite of his own uneasiness , noticed it , and was astonished by it . 
I am at your service , madame , he stammered , bowing . 
She at once took his arm , and led him to the embrasure of a window . 
Pascal's astonishment changed into stupor . 
Why am I to go ? he asked . 
Because but , no I cannot tell you . 
Consider it only a caprice on my part it is so but I entreat you , don't refuse me . 
Do me this favor , and I shall be eternally grateful . 
There was such an agony of supplication in her voice and her attitude , that Pascal was touched . 
A vague presentiment of some terrible , irreparable misfortune disturbed his own heart . 
Nevertheless , he sadly shook his head , and bitterly exclaimed You are , perhaps , not aware that I have just won over thirty thousand francs . 
Yes , I am aware of it . 
And this is only another , and still stronger reason why you should protect yourself against possible loss . 
It is well to pattern after Charlemagne in this house . 
The other night , the Count d'Antas quietly made his escape bareheaded . 
He took a thousand louis away with him , and left his hat in exchange . 
The count is a brave man and far from indulging in blame , every one applauded him the next day . 
French gamblers use this expression which they explain by the fact that Charlemagne departed this life with all his possessions intact , having always added to his dominions without ever experiencing a loss . 
Historically this is no doubt incorrect , hut none the less , the expression prevails in France . 
Pascal had almost decided to yield to her entreaties but this proposed retreat through the back door was too revolting to his pride to be thought of for a moment . 
I will never consent to such a thing , he declared . 
What would they think of me ? Besides I owe them their revenge and I shall give it to them . 
He now suddenly revealed his presence . 
Ah ! my dear friend , he exclaimed , in a winning tone . 
While I honor your scruples , I must say that I think madame is a hundred times right . 
If I were in your place , if I had won what you have won , I shouldn't hesitate . 
Others might think what they pleased you have the money , that is the main thing . 
For the second time , the viscount's intervention decided Pascal . 
I shall remain , he said , resolutely . 
But Madame d'Argeles laid her hand imploringly on his arm . 
I entreat you , monsieur , said she . 
Go now , there is still time Yes , go , said the viscount , approvingly , it would be a most excellent move . 
Retreat and save the cash . 
These words were like the drop which makes the cup overflow . 
Crimson with anger and assailed by the strangest suspicions , Pascal turned from Madame d'Argeles and hastened into the dining room . 
The conversation ceased entirely on his arrival there . 
He could not fail to understand that he had been the subject of it . 
A secret instinct warned him that all the men around him were his enemies though he knew not why and that they were plotting against him . 
He also perceived that his slightest movements were watched and commented upon . 
However he was a brave man his conscience did not reproach him in the least , and he was one of those persons who , rather than wait for danger , provoke it . 
So , with an almost defiant air , he seated himself beside a young lady dressed in pink tulle , and began to laugh and chat with her . 
He possessed a ready wit , and what is even better , tact and for a quarter of an hour astonished those around him by his brilliant sallies . 
Champagne was flowing freely and he drank four or five glasses in quick succession . 
However , the guests did not linger long at the supper table . 
So it is understood , said one of them . 
Yes , yes , leave it to me I will act as executioner . 
This word sent all Pascal's blood bounding to his heart . 
Who is to be executed ? he thought ? I am evidently to be the victim . 
All eyes were fixed upon the unfortunate advocate when it came his turn to deal . 
He staked two hundred louis , and lost them . 
As Pascal heard this ironical remark , uttered in a tone which made it as insulting as a blow , a gleam of light darted through his puzzled brain . 
He suspected at last , what any person less honest than himself would have long before understood . 
He thought of rising and demanding an apology but he was stunned , almost overcome by the horrors of his situation . 
His ears tingled , and it seemed to him as if the beating of his heart were suspended . 
However the game proceeded but no one paid any attention to it . 
The stakes were insignificant , and loss or gain drew no exclamation from any one . 
When they reached him the silence became breathless , menacing , even sinister . 
The ladies , and the guests who were not playing , approached and leaned over the table in evident anxiety . 
I will stake four thousand francs , he faltered . 
I take your bet , answered a voice . 
Alas ! the unfortunate fellow's wish was not gratified he won . 
While his peril had been vague and undetermined , his energy had been paralyzed . 
But it was restored to him intact when his danger declared itself in all its horror . 
Useless ! Seven or eight players sprang upon him and overpowered him , as if he had been the vilest criminal . 
Meanwhile , the executioner , as he had styled himself , had risen to his feet with his cravat untied , and his clothes in wild disorder . 
Yes , he said , addressing Pascal , you are a thief ! I saw you slip other cards among those which were handed to you . 
I saw you and I am going to prove it . 
So saying he turned to the mistress of the house , who had dropped into an arm chair , and imperiously asked , How many packs have we used ? Five . 
Then there ought to be two hundred and sixty cards upon the table . 
Thereupon he counted them slowly and with particular care , and he found no fewer than three hundred and seven . 
Well , scoundrel ! he cried are you still bold enough to deny it ? Pascal had no desire to deny it . 
He knew that words would weigh as nothing against this material , tangible , incontrovertible proof . 
Forty seven cards had been fraudulently inserted among the others . 
Certainly not by him ! But by whom ? Still he , alone , had been the gainer through the deception . 
You see that the coward will not even defend himself ! exclaimed one of the women . 
He did not deign to turn his head . 
And realizing that he must meet facts with facts , he besought God to grant him an idea , an inspiration , that would unmask the real culprit . 
But another person came to his aid . 
Pascal Ferailleur is my friend and his past vouches for his present . 
Go to the Palais de Justice , and make inquiries respecting his character there . 
They will tell you how utterly impossible it is that this man can be guilty of the ignoble act he is accused of . 
No one made any reply . 
In the opinion of all his listeners , Ferdinand was simply fulfilling a duty which it would have been difficult for him to escape . 
The old gentleman who had decided the suspension and the resumption of the game , gave audible expression to the prevailing sentiment of the party . 
He was a portly man , who puffed like a porpoise when he talked , and whom his companions called the baron . 
Your words do you honor really do you honor , he said , addressing Ferdinand and no possible blame can attach to you . 
That your friend is not an honest man is no fault of yours . 
There is no outward sign to distinguish scoundrels . 
Pascal had so far not opened his lips . 
For he felt certain that he was the victim of some atrocious conspiracy , though it was impossible for him to divine what motive had actuated his enemies . 
Suddenly those who were holding him felt him tremble . 
He raised his head he fancied he could detect a ray of hope . 
Shall I be allowed to speak in my own defence ? he asked . 
Who the author of it is I do not know . 
But there is some one here who must know . 
Angry exclamations and sneering laughs interrupted him . 
Would you condemn me unheard ? he resumed , raising his voice . 
About an hour ago , while you were at supper , Madame d'Argeles almost threw herself at my feet as she entreated me to leave this house . 
The gentleman known as the baron turned toward Madame d'Argeles Is what this man says true ? She was greatly agitated , but she answered Yes . 
Why were you so anxious for him to go ? I don't know a presentiment it seemed to me that something was going to happen . 
The least observant of the party could not fail to notice Madame d'Argeles's hesitation and confusion but even the shrewdest were deceived . 
They supposed that she had seen the act committed , and had tried to induce the culprit to make his escape , in order to avoid a scandal . 
Pascal saw he could expect no assistance from this source . 
M. de Coralth could assure you , he began . 
Oh , enough of that , interrupted a player . 
I myself heard M. de Coralth do his best to persuade you not to play . 
So the unfortunate fellow's last and only hope had vanished . 
Still he made a supreme effort , and addressing Madame d'Argeles Madame , he said , in a voice trembling with anguish ? I entreat you , tell what you know . 
It is all over ! he muttered . 
No one heard him everybody was listening to the baron , who seemed to be very much put out . 
We are wasting precious time with all this , said he . 
We should have made at least five rounds while this absurd scene has been going on . 
We must put an end to it . 
What are you going to do with this fellow ? I am in favor of sending for a commissary of police . 
Such was not at all the opinion of the majority of the guests . 
Four or five of the ladies took flight at the bare suggestion and several men the most aristocratic of the company became angry at once . 
Are you mad ? said one of them . 
Do you want to see us all summoned as witnesses ? You have probably forgotten that Garcia affair , and that rumpus at Jenny Fancy's house . 
So it's fear of scandal that deters you ! Zounds , sir ! a man's courage should equal his vices . 
Still , on this occasion he did not carry the day , for it was decided that the sharper should be allowed to depart unmolested . 
Make him at least return the money , growled a loser compel him to disgorge . 
His winnings are there upon the table . 
Don't believe it , cried the baron . 
All these scoundrels have secret pockets in which they stow away their plunder . 
Search him by all means . 
That's it search him ! Crushed by this unexpected , undeserved and incomprehensible misfortune , Pascal had almost yielded to his fate . 
But the shameful cry Search him ! kindled terrible wrath in his brain . 
Stand back , and allow me to retire ? said Pascal , imperiously . 
They still hesitated but finally made way . 
And , formidable in his indignation and audacity , he reached the door of the room unmolested , and disappeared . 
The guests had not recovered from their stupor , but were still standing silent and intimidated when they heard the outer door close after him . 
It was a woman who at last broke the spell . 
Everybody applauded the sentiment everybody , the baron excepted . 
But never , in any of these scoundrels , had the baron seen the proud , steadfast glance with which this man had awed his accusers . 
With this thought uppermost in his mind he drew the person who had seized Pascal's hands at the card table a little aside . 
Tell me , said he , did you actually see that young man slip the cards into the pack ? No , not exactly . 
But you know what we agreed at supper ? We were sure that he was cheating and it was necessary to find some pretext for counting the cards . 
What if he shouldn't be guilty , after all ? Who else could be guilty then ? He was the only winner . 
To this terrible argument the same which had silenced Pascal the baron made no reply . 
Indeed his intervention became necessary elsewhere , for the other guests were beginning to talk loudly and excitedly around the pile of gold and bank notes which Pascal had left on the table . 
This was undeniable for on adding the various amounts that were claimed together a grand total of ninety one thousand francs was reached . 
However , the discussion might have taken an unfortunate turn , had it not been for the baron . 
In all matters relating to cards , his word was law . 
He quietly said , It is all right and they submitted . 
But the other guests , pale , disturbed , and secretly ashamed of themselves , were eager to depart , and in fact they were already hastening to the cloak room . 
At least play a game of ecarte , cried the baron , a simple game of ecarte , at twenty louis a point . 
Remain , said she I want to speak with you . 
You will excuse me , he began I But she again bade him remain in such an imperious tone that he dared not resist . 
As soon as the door was closed and locked , the mistress of the house turned to her prisoner . 
Now you will explain , said she . 
It was you who brought M. Pascal Ferailleur here . 
Alas ! I know only too well that I ought to beg your forgiveness . 
However , this affair will cost me dear myself . 
It has already embroiled me in a difficulty with that fool of a Rochecote , with whom I shall have to fight in less than a couple of hours . 
Where did you make his acquaintance ? Whose Rochecote's ? Madame d'Argeles's sempiternal smile had altogether disappeared . 
I am speaking seriously , said she , with a threatening ring in her voice . 
How did you happen to become acquainted with M. Ferailleur ? That can be very easily explained . 
Seven or eight months ago I had need of an advocate's services , and he was recommended to me . 
He managed my case very cleverly , and we kept up the acquaintance . 
What is his position ? M. de Coralth's features wore an expression of exceeding weariness as if he greatly longed to go to sleep . 
He had indeed installed himself in a large arm chair , in a semi recumbent position . 
Upon my word , I don't know , he replied . 
When she opened the door for me , on the occasion of my first visit , I thought some old family portrait had stepped down from its frame to receive me . 
I judge them to be in comfortable circumstances . 
Pascal has the reputation of being a remarkable man , and people supposed he would rise very high in his profession . 
But now he is ruined his career is finished . 
Certainly ! You can be quite sure that by this evening all Paris will know what occurred here last night . 
He paused , meeting Madame Argeles's look of withering scorn with a cleverly assumed air of astonishment . 
You are a villain ! Monsieur de Coralth , she said , indignantly . 
Oh ! don't deny it . 
M. de Coralth rose in the coolest possible manner . 
I deny nothing , my dear lady , he replied , absolutely nothing . 
You and I understand each other . 
Confounded by his unblushing impudence , Madame d'Argeles remained speechless for a moment . 
You confess it ! she cried , at last . 
You dare to confess it ! Were you not afraid that I might speak and state what I had seen ? He shrugged his shoulders . 
No one would have believed you , he exclaimed . 
Yes , I should have been believed , Monsieur de Coralth , for I could have given proofs . 
When you proclaim on the housetops that I am an adventurer , folks will only laugh at you , and I shall be none the worse for it . 
A matter that would crush a dozen men like Pascal Ferailleur would not injure me in the least . 
I am accustomed to it . 
I must have luxury and enjoyment , everything that is pleasant and beautiful and to procure all this , I do my very best . 
It is true that I don't derive my income from my estate in Brie but I have plenty of money , and that is the essential thing . 
And last , but not least , the people who ought to be despised are so numerous that contempt is an impossibility . 
M. de Coralth talked well enough , and yet , in point of fact , all this was sheer bravado on his part . 
He knew better than any one else , on what a frail and uncertain basis his brilliant existence was established . 
Certainly , society does show great indulgence to people of doubtful reputation . 
It shuts its eyes and refuses to look or listen . 
But this is all the more reason why it should be pitiless when a person's guilt is positively established . 
Thus , although he assumed an air of insolent security , the viscount anxiously watched the effect of his words upon Madame d'Argeles . 
I was sufficiently well acquainted with your heart and your intelligence , my dear madame , to be sure that you would not speak a word to my disparagement . 
I am entitled to considerable indulgence , madame , and a great deal ought to be forgiven me . 
My mother , unfortunately , was an honest woman , who did not furnish me with the means of gratifying every whim . 
Madame d'Argeles recoiled as if a serpent had suddenly crossed her path . 
What do you mean ? she faltered . 
You know as well as I do . 
I don't understand you explain yourself . 
He has wanted for nothing since the day he came into the world . 
At school , he had three times as much money as his richest playfellow . 
When his studies were finished , a tutor was provided with his pockets full of gold to conduct this favored youth to Italy , Egypt , and Greece . 
He is now studying law and four times a year , with unvarying punctuality , he receives a letter from London containing five thousand francs . 
This is all the more remarkable , as this young man has neither a father nor a mother . 
He is alone in the world with his income of twenty thousand francs . 
I have heard him say , jestingly . 
that some good fairy must be watching over him but I know that he believes himself to be the illegitimate son of some great English nobleman . 
Sometimes , when he has drunk a little too much , he talks of going in search of my lord , his father . 
The effect M. de Coralth had created by these words must have been extremely gratifying to him , for Madame d'Argeles had fallen back in her chair , almost fainting . 
And if he mourned his vanished dreams , I should tell him 'You are wrong for , if the great nobleman is lost , the good fairy remains . 
She is none other than your mother , a very worthy person , whose only object in life is your comfort and advancement . 
And if he doubted my word , I should bring him to his mother's house some baccarat night and there would be a scene of recognition worthy of Fargueil's genius . 
Any man but M. de Coralth would have had some compassion , for Madame d'Argeles was evidently suffering agony . 
It is as I feared ! she moaned , in a scarcely audible voice . 
However , he heard her . 
What ! he exclaimed in a tone of intense astonishment did you really doubt it ? No I can't believe it it would be doing injustice to your intelligence and experience . 
He knows everything ! she murmured he knows everything ! By the merest chance , I assure you . 
As I don't like folks to meddle with my affairs , I never meddle with theirs . 
As I have just said , it was entirely the work of chance . 
One April afternoon I came to invite you to a drive in the Bois . 
I was ushered into this very room where we are sitting now , and found you writing . 
I said I would wait until you finished your letter but some one called you , and you hastily left the room . 
How it was that I happened to approach your writing table I cannot explain but I did approach it , and read your unfinished letter . 
Upon my word it touched me deeply . 
I can give no better proof of the truth of my assertion than the fact that I can repeat it , almost word for word , even now . 
'DEAR SIR , you wrote to your London correspondent 'I send you three thousand francs , in addition to the five thousand for the regular quarterly payment . 
Forward the money without delay . 
I fear the poor boy is greatly annoyed by his creditors . 
Yesterday I had the happiness of seeing him in the Rue de Helder , and I found him looking pale and careworn . 
When you send him this money , forward at the same time a letter of fatherly advice . 
There , my dear lady , your letter ended but the name and address were given , and it was easy enough to understand it . 
You remember , perhaps , a little incident that occurred after your return . 
On perceiving that you had forgotten your letter , you turned pale and glanced at me . 
'Have you read it , and do you understand it ? your eyes asked while mine replied 'Yes , but I shall be silent . 
And I shall be silent too , said Madame d'Argeles . 
M. de Coralth took her hand and raised it to his lips . 
I knew we should understand each other , he remarked , gravely . 
If not for M. Ferailleur's sake , for the sake of his poor widowed mother . 
What ! she stammered it wasn't on your own account that you did this ? Why , no . 
A truce to these disagreeable truths , said he , coldly . 
If we expressed our opinions of each other without reserve , in this world , we should soon come to hard words . 
Do you think I acted for my own pleasure ? Suppose some one had seen me when I slipped the cards into the pack . 
If that had happened , I should have been ruined . 
And you think that no one suspects you ? No one . 
I lost more than a hundred louis myself . 
If Pascal belonged to our set , people might investigate the matter , perhaps but to morrow it will be forgotten . 
And will he have no suspicions ? He will have no proofs to offer , in any case . 
Madame d'Argeles seemed to resign herself to the inevitable . 
I hope you will , at least , tell me on whose behalf you acted , she remarked . 
Impossible , replied M. de Coralth . 
And , consulting his watch , he added , But I am forgetting myself I am forgetting that that idiot of a Rochecote is waiting for a sword thrust . 
So go to sleep , my dear lady , and till we meet again . 
She accompanied him so far as the landing . 
It is quite certain that he is hastening to the house of M. Ferailleur's enemy , she thought . 
And , calling her confidential servant , Quick , Job , she said follow M. de Coralth . 
I want to know where he is going . 
And , above all , take care that he doesn't see you . 
The shops are unassuming , and so few that one can easily count them . 
Along the rest of the street run several spacious buildings , somewhat austere in appearance , though some of them are surrounded by large gardens . 
At day time you mostly meet grave and thoughtful faces in the street priests , savants , professors , and clerks employed in the adjacent public libraries . 
The only stir is round about the omnibus office and if occasional bursts of laughter are heard they are sure to come from the Normal School . 
And it is only on listening attentively that you can catch even a faint echo of the tumult of Paris . 
It was in this street out of the world , as M. de Coralth expressed it that Pascal Ferailleur resided with his mother . 
They occupied a second floor , a pretty suite of five rooms , looking out upon a garden . 
Indeed , they paid fourteen hundred francs a year . 
But this was a burden which Pascal's profession imposed upon him for he , of course , required a private office and a little waiting room for his clients . 
With this exception , the mother and son led a straightened , simple life . 
Madame Ferailleur attended to everything , not blushing in the least when she was compelled to open the door for some client . 
Besides , she could do this without the least risk of encountering disrespect , so imposing and dignified were her manners and her person . 
M. de Coralth had shown excellent judgment when he compared her to a family portrait . 
She had just passed her fiftieth birthday , and looked fully her age . 
A close observer would have detected traces of weeping about her wrinkled eyelids and the twinge of her lips was expressive of cruel anguish , heroically endured . 
Still , she was not severe , nor even too sedate and the few friends who visited her were often really astonished at her wit . 
Besides , she was one of those women who have no history , and who find happiness in what others would call duty . 
Her life could be summed up in a single sentence she had loved she had mourned . 
This young man on marrying had sworn that he would make a fortune not that he cared for money for himself , but he wished to provide his idol with every luxury . 
His love , enhancing his energy , no doubt hastened his success . 
Attached as a chemist to a large manufacturing establishment , his services soon became so invaluable to his employers that they gave him a considerable interest in the business . 
His name even obtained an honorable place among modern inventors and we are indebted to him for the discovery of one of those brilliant colors that are extracted from common coal . 
At the end of ten years he had become a man of means . 
He loved his wife as fondly as on the day of their marriage , and he had a son Pascal . 
A fortnight later he died , apparently calm , but in reality a prey to bitter regrets . 
It was a terrible blow for his poor wife , and the thought of her son alone reconciled her to life . 
Pascal was now everything to her her present and her future and she solemnly vowed that she would make a noble man of him . 
But alas ! misfortunes never come singly . 
One of her husband's friends , who acted as administrator to the estate , took a contemptible advantage of her inexperience . 
However , Madame Ferailleur was of too courageous and too proud a nature not to meet this danger with virile energy . 
She wasted no time in useless lamentations . 
And when she spoke of manual toil , it was no wild , unmeaning exaggeration born of sorrow and a passing flash of courage . 
She found employment as a day servant and in sewing for large shops , until she at last obtained a situation as clerk in the establishment where her husband had been a partner . 
Then only did her efforts momentarily abate she felt that her arduous task was drawing to a happy close . 
It must be admitted that she was admirably seconded in her efforts by her son . 
Pascal was only twelve years old when his mother said to him I have ruined you , my son . 
Nothing remains of the fortune which your father accumulated by dint of toil and self sacrifice . 
You will be obliged to rely upon yourself , my boy . 
God grant that in years to come you will not reproach me for my imprudence . 
The child did not throw himself into her arms , but holding his head proudly erect , he answered I shall love you even more , dear mother , if that be possible . 
As for the fortune which my father left you , I will restore it to you again . 
I am no longer a school boy , I am a man as you shall see . 
One could not fail to perceive that he had taken a solemn vow . 
But from that day forward he did not lose a moment . 
His remarks , which were at once comical and touching , were those of the head of a family , deeply impressed by a sense of his own responsibility . 
His good humor was not in the least impaired by his resolve not to spend a single penny of his pocket money . 
For three years in succession the highest prizes at the competitions rewarded him for his efforts but these successes , far from elating him unduly , seemed to afford him but little satisfaction . 
This is only glory , he thought and his great ambition was to support himself . 
Thus one day when Madame Ferailleur presented herself as usual to make her quarterly payment , the steward replied You owe us nothing , madame everything has been paid by your son . 
She almost fainted after bearing adversity so bravely , this happiness proved too much for her . 
She could scarcely believe it . 
A long explanation was necessary to convince her of the truth , and then big tears , tears of joy this time , gushed from her eyes . 
He wished to be a lawyer and the law , he was forced to admit , is a profession which is almost beyond the reach of penniless young men . 
But there are no insurmountable obstacles for those whose hearts are really set on an object . 
On the very day that Pascal inscribed his name as a student at the law school , he entered an advocate's office as a clerk . 
It was certainly something wonderful to have achieved such a result in so short a time but the most difficult part of his task had still to be accomplished . 
It was a perilous undertaking to abandon an assured position , to cast a certainty aside for the chances of life at the bar . 
It was a grave step so grave , indeed , that Pascal hesitated for a long time . 
He was threatened with the danger that always threatens subordinates who are useful to their superiors . 
He felt that his employer , who was in the habit of relieving himself of his heaviest duties by intrusting them to him , would not be likely to forgive him for leaving . 
And on starting on his own account , he could ill afford to dispense with this lawyer's good will . 
The patronage that could scarcely fail to follow him from an office where he had served for four years was the most substantial basis of his calculations for the future . 
Eventually he succeeded to his satisfaction , though not without some difficulty , and only by employing that supreme finesse which consists in absolute frankness . 
Rare modesty , and it served him well . 
His first ten months of practice brought him about eight thousand francs , absorbed in part by the expense attaching to a suitable office . 
The second year his fees increased by about one half , and , feeling that his position was now assured , he insisted that his mother should resign her clerkship . 
He proved to her what was indeed the truth that by superintending his establishment , she would save more than she made in her present position . 
From that time the mother and the son had good reason to believe that their heroic energy had conquered fate . 
Madame Ferailleur now laid aside the mourning she had worn since her husband's death . 
She felt that she owed it to Pascal and , besides , after believing there was no more happiness left for her on earth , her heart rejoiced at her son's success . 
Pascal was thus on the high road to fame , when a complication in M. Ferdinand de Coralth's affair , brought that young nobleman to his office . 
The trouble arose from a little stock exchange operation which M. Ferdinand had engaged in an affair which savored a trifle of knavery . 
It was strange , but Pascal rather took a liking to M. de Coralth . 
Pascal considered his friend's invitation exceedingly well timed . 
He dressed himself with more than ordinary care , and , as usual before going out , he approached his mother to kiss her and wish her good bye . 
How fine you are ! she said , smiling . 
I am going to a soiree , my dear mother , he replied and it is probable that I shall not return until very late . 
So don't wait for me , I beg of you promise me to go to bed at your usual hour . 
Have you the night key ? Yes . 
Very well , then I will not wait for you . 
When you come in you will find your candle and some matches on the buffet in the ante room . 
And wrap yourself up well , for it is very cold . 
Possibly it was because she did not know where Pascal was going . 
Possibly M. de Coralth was the cause of her strange disquietude , for she utterly disliked the viscount . 
Her woman's instinct warned her that there was something unwholesome about this young man's peculiar handsomeness , and that it was not safe to trust to his professions of friendship . 
At all events , she lay awake and heard the clock of the neighboring Normal School strike each successive hour two , three , and four . 
How late Pascal stays , she said to herself . 
And suddenly a fear more poignant even than her presentiments darted through her mind . 
She sprang out of bed and rushed to the window . 
She fancied she had heard a terrible cry of distress in the deserted street . 
At that very moment , the insulting word thief was being hurled in her son's face . 
But the street was silent , and deciding that she had been mistaken , she went back to bed laughing at herself for her fears and at last she fell asleep . 
But judge of her terror in the morning when , on rising to let the servant in , she saw Pascal's candle still standing on the buffet . 
Was it possible that he had not returned ? She hastened to his room he was not there . 
And it was nearly eight o'clock . 
In an instant all the dangers that lurk in Paris after nightfall flashed through her mind . 
Thus , in an agony of suspense , she waited counting the seconds by the quick throbbings of her temples , and straining her ears to catch the slightest sound . 
At last , about half past eight o'clock , she heard a heavy , uncertain footfall on the stairs . 
She flew to the door and beheld her son . 
His clothes were torn and disordered his cravat was missing , he wore no overcoat , and he was bareheaded . 
He looked very pale , and his teeth were chattering . 
His eyes stared vacantly , and his features had an almost idiotic expression . 
Pascal , what has happened to you ? she asked . 
He trembled from head to foot as the sound of her voice suddenly roused him from his stupor . 
Nothing , he stammered nothing at all . 
And as his mother pressed him with questions , he pushed her gently aside and went on to his room . 
Poor child ! murmured Madame Ferailleur , at once grieved and reassured and he is always so temperate . 
Some one must have forced him to drink . 
She was entirely wrong in her surmise , and yet Pascal's sensations were exactly like those of an intoxicated man . 
How he had returned home , by what road , and what had happened on the way , he could not tell . 
He had found his way back mechanically , merely by force of habit physical memory , as it might be called . 
The last thing he could clearly recollect was rushing from Madame d'Argeles's house in the Rue de Berry . 
After that , he remembered nothing distinctly . 
On reaching the street he had been overcome by the fresh air , just as a carouser is overcome on emerging from a heated dining room . 
Perhaps the champagne which he had drank had contributed to this cerebral disorder . 
Four or five times his mother came to listen at the door . 
Once she entered , and seeing her son sleeping soundly , she could not repress a smile of satisfaction . 
Poor Pascal ! she thought he can bear no excess but excess of work . 
First , as to the past , he had not the shadow of a doubt . 
It seemed equally proven that Madame d'Argeles knew the real culprit possibly she had detected him in the act , possibly he had taken her into his confidence . 
But what he could not fathom was M. de Coralth's motive . 
He knew the real culprit , and yet he could see no way of unmasking him or even of accusing him . 
Do what he would , this atrocious , incomprehensive calumny would crush him . 
The bar was closed against him his career was ended . 
Full of this idea , he hastily changed his clothes , and hurried from his room . 
Pascal , in heaven's name , what has happened ? she cried . 
A slight difficulty a mere trifle , he replied . 
Where are you going ? To the Palais de Justice . 
And such was really the case , for he hoped to meet his most intimate friend there . 
Contrary to his usual custom , he took the little staircase on the right , leading to the grand vestibule , where several lawyers were assembled , earnestly engaged in conversation . 
They were evidently astonished to see Pascal , and their conversation abruptly ceased on his approach . 
They assumed a grave look and turned away their heads in disgust . 
The fifth , who did not move , was not the friend Pascal sought , but an old college comrade named Dartelle . 
Pascal walked straight toward him . 
Dartelle handed him a Figaro , still damp from the printing press , but crumpled and worn , as if it had already passed through more than a hundred hands . 
Pascal read as follows There was great sensation and a terrible scandal last night at the residence of Madame d'A , a well known star of the first magnitude . 
A score of gentlemen of high rank and immense wealth were enjoying a quiet game of baccarat , when it was observed that M. F was winning in a most extraordinary manner . 
He was watched and detected in the very act of dexterously slipping some cards into the pack he held . 
One of the persons present was especially displeased . 
This was the Viscount de C , who had introduced M. F to Madame d'A . 
Extremely annoyed by this contretemps , he took umbrage at an offensive remark made by M. de R , and it was rumored that these gentlemen would cross swords at daybreak this morning . 
We learn at the moment of going to press that an encounter has just taken place between M. de R and M. de C . 
M. de R received a slight wound in the side , but his condition is sufficiently satisfactory not to alarm his friends . 
The paper slipped from Pascal's hand . 
His features were almost unrecognizable in his passion and despair . 
It is an infamous lie ! he said , hoarsely . 
I am innocent I swear it upon my honor ! Dartelle averted his face , but not quickly enough to prevent Pascal from noticing the look of withering scorn in his eyes . 
Dartelle turned , his eyes glistening with tears . 
He seized Pascal's hands and pressed them with sorrowful tenderness , as if taking leave of a friend who is about to die . 
Pascal fled like a madman . 
Yes , he repeated , as he rushed along the Boulevard Saint Michel , that is the only thing left me to do . 
When he reached home he entered his office , double locked the door , and wrote two letters one to his mother , the other to the president of the order of Advocates . 
After a moment's thought he began a third , but tore it into pieces before he had completed it . 
Poor mother ! he murmured it will kill her but my disgrace would kill her too . 
He little fancied at that supreme moment that each of his gestures , each contraction of his features , were viewed by the mother whose name he faltered . 
Gliding into her son's bedroom , she at once approached the door communicating with his office . 
The upper part of this portal was of glass it was possible to see what was occurring in the adjoining room . 
When Madame Ferailleur perceived Pascal seat himself at his desk and begin to write , she felt a trifle reassured , and almost thought of going away . 
But a vague dread , stronger than reason or will , riveted her to the spot . 
A few moments later , when she saw the revolver in her son's hand , she understood everything . 
Her blood froze in her veins and yet she had sufficient self control to repress the cry of terror which sprang to her lips . 
She realized that the danger was terrible , imminent , extreme . 
Her heart , rather than her bewildered reason , told her that her son's life hung on a single thread . 
The slightest sound , a word , a rap on the door might hasten the unfortunate man's deed . 
An inspiration from heaven came to the poor mother . 
Pascal had contented himself with locking the door leading to the ante room . 
He had forgotten this one , or neglected it , not thinking that anybody would approach his office through his bedroom . 
But his mother perceived that this door opened toward her . 
So , turning the knob with the utmost caution , she flung it suddenly open , and reaching her son's side with a single bound , she clasped him closely in her arms . 
Pascal , wretched boy ! what would you do ? He was so surprised that his weapon fell from his hand , and he sank back almost fainting in his arm chair . 
The idea of denying his intention never once occurred to him besides , he was unable to articulate a word . 
But on his desk there lay a letter addressed to his mother which would speak for him . 
Madame Ferailleur took it , tore the envelope open , and read Forgive me I'm about to die . 
I cannot survive dishonor and I am dishonored . 
Dishonored ! you ! exclaimed the heartbroken mother . 
My God ! what does this mean ? Speak . 
I implore you tell me all you must . 
I command you to do so . 
I command you ! He complied with this at once supplicating and imperious behest , and related in a despairing voice the events which had wrought his woe . 
He did not omit a single particular , but tried rather to exaggerate than palliate the horrors of his situation . 
For this was one of those unexpected catastrophes which are beyond the range of human foresight or even imagination , and which her mind could scarcely conceive or admit . 
But SHE did not doubt him , even though his friends had doubted him . 
Indeed , if he had himself told her that he was guilty of cheating at cards , she would have refused to believe him . 
An honest name is a sacred trust which no one has a right to abuse . 
Your father bequeathed it to you , pure and untarnished , and so you must preserve it . 
If others try to cover it with opprobrium , you must live to defend it . 
But now the misfortune is irreparable . 
But , mother I must not keep the truth from you , Pascal ! What ! are you lacking in energy ? Come , my son , rise and raise your head . 
I shall not let you fight alone . 
I will fight with you . 
Without speaking a word , Pascal caught hold of his mother's hands and pressed them to his lips . 
His face was wet with tears . 
His overstrained nerves relaxed under the soothing influence of maternal tenderness and devotion . 
Reason , too , had regained her ascendency . 
His mother's noble words found an echo in his own heart , and he now looked upon suicide as an act of madness and cowardice . 
Madame Ferailleur felt that the victory was assured , but this did not suffice she wished to enlist Pascal in her plans . 
It is evident , she resumed , that M. de Coralth is the author of this abominable plot . 
Then he must be the vile instrument of some even more despicable being . 
Have you wounded any of your friends ? Are you sure that you are in nobody's way ? Consider carefully . 
Your profession has its dangers and those who adopt it must expect to make bitter enemies . 
It seemed to him as if a ray of light at last illumined the darkness a dim and uncertain ray , it is true , but still a gleam of light . 
Who knows ! he muttered who knows ! Madame Ferailleur reflected a few moments , and the nature of her reflections brought a flush to her brow . 
This is one of those cases in which a mother should overstep reserve , said she . 
If you had a mistress , my son I have none , he answered , promptly . 
Madame Ferailleur nodded her head gravely , as much as to say that she had expected to find a woman at the bottom of the mystery . 
And who is this young girl ? she inquired . 
What is her name ? Marguerite . 
Marguerite who ? Pascal's embarrassment increased . 
She has no other name , he replied , hurriedly , and she does not know her parents . 
She formerly lived in our street with her companion , Madame Leon , and an old female servant . 
It was there that I saw her for the first time . 
She now lives in the house of the Count de Chalusse , in the Rue de Courcelles . 
In what capacity ? The count has always taken care of her she owes her education to him . 
He acts as her guardian and although she has never spoken to me on the subject , I fancy that the Count de Chalusse is her father . 
And does this girl love you , Pascal ? I believe so , mother . 
She has promised me that she will have no other husband than myself . 
And the count ? He doesn't know he doesn't even suspect anything about it . 
Day after day I have been trying to gather courage to tell you everything , and to ask you to go to the Count de Chalusse . 
But my position is so modest as yet . 
The count is immensely rich , and he intends to give Marguerite an enormous fortune two millions , I believe Madame Ferailleur interrupted him with a gesture . 
Look no further , she said you have found the explanation . 
Pascal sprang to his feet with crimson cheeks , flaming eyes , and quivering lips . 
It may be so , he exclaimed it may be so ! The count's immense fortune may have tempted some miserable scoundrel . 
Who knows but some one may have been watching Marguerite , and have discovered that I am an obstacle ? Something told me that my suspicions were correct , said Madame Ferailleur . 
I had no proofs , and yet I felt sure of it . 
Pascal was absorbed in thought . 
And what a strange coincidence , he eventually remarked . 
Do you know , the last time I saw Marguerite , a week ago , she seemed so sad and anxious that I felt alarmed . 
I questioned her , but at first she would not answer . 
After a little while , however , as I insisted , she said 'Ah , well , I fear the count is planning a marriage for me . 
And this young man , whenever I meet him , looks at me in such a peculiar manner . 
What is his name ? asked Madame Ferailleur . 
I don't know she didn't mention it and her words so disturbed me that I did not think of asking . 
But she will tell me . 
This evening , if I don't succeed in obtaining an interview , I will write to her . 
If your suspicions are correct , mother , our secret is in the hands of three persons , and so it is a secret no longer He paused suddenly to listen . 
The noise of a spirited altercation between the servant and some visitor , came from the ante room . 
I tell you that he IS at home , said some one in a panting voice , and I must see him and speak with him at once . 
It is such an urgent matter that I left a card party just at the most critical moment to come here . 
I assure you , monsieur , that M. Ferailleur has gone out . 
Very well I will wait for him , then . 
Take me to a room where I can sit down . 
Pascal turned pale , for he recognized the voice of the individual who had suggested searching him at Madame d'Argeles's house . 
I knew perfectly well that you were here . 
You don't recognize me , perhaps , my dear sir . 
The fact is he had just perceived Madame Ferailleur . 
You can speak in my mother's presence , he replied , coldly she knows everything . 
The baron's surprise found vent in a positive distortion of his features . 
And while he pretended to be engaged in recovering his breath he studied the room and its occupants . 
A revolver was lying on the floor beside a torn and crumpled letter , and tears were still glittering in the eyes of Madame Ferailleur and her son . 
A keen observer needed no further explanation of the scene . 
I will not conceal from you , monsieur , began the baron , that I have been led here by certain compunctions of conscience . 
And , misinterpreting a gesture which Pascal made , I mean what I say , he continued compunctions of conscience . 
Monsieur ! interrupted Pascal , in a threatening tone . 
Excuse me , allow me to finish , if you please . 
Reflection , I must confess , only confirmed this impression , and increased my doubts . 
And then I became uneasy , and here I am ! Was the absurd reason which the baron gave for his visit the true one ? It was difficult to decide . 
So saying he noisily blew his nose , but this did not prevent him from observing the quiet joy of Pascal and his mother . 
But although these words were calculated to make them feel intensely happy , they still looked at their visitor with distrust . 
It is clear that you are in some one's way , he resumed , and that this some one has invented this method of ruining you . 
There can be no question about it . 
The intention became manifest to my mind the moment I read the paragraph concerning you in the Figaro . 
Have you seen it ? Yes ? Well , what do you think of it ? I would be willing to swear that it was written from notes furnished by your enemy . 
Moreover , the particulars are incorrect , and I am going to write a line of correction which I shall take to the office myself . 
So saying he transported his unwieldy person to Pascal's desk , and hastily wrote as follows MR . 
EDITOR , As a witness of the scene that took place at Madame d'A s's house last night , allow me to make an important correction . 
I know that appearances are against him , but he nevertheless possesses my entire confidence and esteem . 
Meanwhile Madame Ferailleur and her son had exchanged significant glances . 
Their impressions were the same . 
This man could not be an enemy . 
So be it I understand you you hope to discover the traitor , and you do not wish to put him on his guard . 
I approve of your prudence . 
He prepared to go , but before crossing the threshold , he turned and said In future I shall watch the fingers of the player who sits on my left hand . 
And if I were in your place , I would obtain the notes from which that newspaper article was written . 
One never knows the benefit that may be derived , at a certain moment , from a page of writing . 
As he started off , Madame Ferailleur sprang from her chair . 
Pascal , she exclaimed , that man knows something , and your enemies are his I read it in his eyes . 
He , too , distrusts M. de Coralth . 
I understood him , mother , and my mind is made up . 
From this moment Pascal Ferailleur no longer exists . 
That same evening two large vans were standing outside Madame Ferailleur's house . 
She had sold her furniture without reserve , and was starting to join her son , who had already left for Le Havre , she said , in view of sailing to America . 
There are a number of patients waiting for me . 
I will drop in again about midnight . 
I still have several urgent visits to make . 
The visits he had spoken of merely existed in his imagination but it was a part of his role to appear to be overrun with patients . 
But neither work nor patience formed any part of his system . 
He was a man of the present age , and wished to rise speedily with as little trouble as possible . 
A certain amount of display and assurance , a little luck , and a good deal of advertising would , in his opinion , suffice to bring about this result . 
It was with this conviction , indeed , that he had taken up his abode in the Rue de Courcelles , situated in one of the most aristocratic quarters of Paris . 
But so far , events had shown his theory to be incorrect . 
In spite of the greatest economy , very cleverly concealed , he had seen the little capital which constituted his entire fortune dwindle away . 
He had originally possessed but twenty thousand francs , a sum which in no wise corresponded with his lofty pretensions . 
He had paid his rent that very morning and he could not close his eyes to the fact that the time was near at hand when he would be unable to pay it . 
In calmer moments he asked himself at what other door he could knock , in view of hastening the arrival of Fortune . 
On other occasions he dreamed of establishing a monster pharmacy , or of opening a private hospital . 
But money was needed to carry out any one of these plans , and he had no money . 
However the time was fast approaching when he must decide upon his course he could not possibly hold out much longer . 
His third year of practice in the Rue de Courcelles had not yielded him enough to pay his servant's wages . 
For he had a servant , of course . 
He had a valet for the same reason as he had a suite of rooms of a superficially sumptuous aspect . 
Faithful to his system , or , rather , to his master's system , he had sacrificed everything to show . 
The display of gilding in his apartments was such as to make a man of taste shut his eyes to escape the sight of it . 
There were gorgeous carpets and hangings , frescoed ceilings , spurious objects of virtu , and pier tables loaded with ornaments . 
An unsophisticated youth from the country would certainly have been dazzled but it would not do to examine these things too closely . 
This plaster , playing the part of bronze , was in perfect keeping with the man , his system , and the present age . 
When the doctor reached home , his first question to his servant was as usual Has any one called ? No one . 
The doctor sighed , and passing through his superb waiting room , he entered his consulting sanctum , and seated himself in the chimney corner beside an infinitesimal fire . 
He was even more thoughtful than usual . 
For he was more than ever convinced that there was a mystery . 
He had been engrossed in these thoughts for some time , when his meditations were disturbed by a ring at the bell . 
Very well , was his reply but it is best to let her wait a few moments . 
For he had at least this merit he never deviated from his system . 
However , when ten minutes or so had elapsed , he opened the door , and a tall lady came quickly forward , throwing back the veil which had concealed her face . 
She must have been over forty five and if she had ever been handsome , there was nothing to indicate it now . 
However , her manners were gentle and rather melancholy and one would have judged her to be somewhat of a devotee . 
Still for the time being she seemed greatly agitated . 
In spite of his self control , the doctor bounded from his chair . 
Madame Leon ? he asked , in a tone of intense surprise . 
She bowed , compressing her thick lips . 
I am known by that name yes , monsieur . 
But it is only my Christian name . 
The one I have a right to bear would not accord with my present position . 
Reverses of fortune are not rare in these days and were it not for the consoling influences of religion , one would not have strength to endure them . 
The physician was greatly puzzled . 
What can she want of me ? he thought . 
In support of her assertion , she drew a handkerchief from her pocket , and succeeded in forcing a few tears to her eyes . 
Under these circumstances , doctor , she continued , you cannot fail to understand that the interests of my dearly beloved Marguerite bring me to you . 
I was shut up in my own room when M. de Chalusse was brought home , and I did not hear of his illness until after your departure . 
Perhaps you might say that I ought to have waited until your next visit but I had not sufficient patience to do so . 
One cannot submit without a struggle to the torture of suspense , when the future of a beloved daughter is at stake . 
She paused to take breath , and then added , I have come , monsieur , to ask you to tell me the exact truth respecting the count's condition . 
The doctor was expecting something very different , but nevertheless he replied with all due gravity and self possession . 
Then all is lost , she faltered , all is lost ! And unable to articulate another word she rose to her feet , bowed , and abruptly left the room . 
Before the grate , with his mouth half open , and his right arm extended in an interrupted gesture , the doctor stood speechless and disconcerted . 
It was only when the outer door closed with a bang that he seemed restored to consciousness . 
And as he heard the noise he sprang forward as if to recall his visitor . 
Madame Leon was considerably in advance of him , and was walking very quickly still , by quickening his pace , he might have overtaken her . 
However , he did not join her , for he scarcely knew what excuse to offer for such a strange proceeding he contented himself by cautiously following her at a little distance . 
It was in front of a tobacconist's shop , where there was a post office letter box . 
The shop was closed , but the box was there with its little slit for letters to be dropped into it . 
She paused , as one always does before venturing upon a decisive act , from which there will be no return , whatever may be the consequences . 
An observer never remains twenty minutes before a letter box without witnessing this pantomime so expressive of irresolution . 
There is not the slightest doubt , thought the doctor , that letter had been prepared in advance , and whether it should be sent or not depended on the answer I gave . 
But his chase was almost ended . 
Madame Leon had reached the Hotel de Chalusse , and now went in . 
But a gleam of common sense warned him that this would be a terrible blunder . 
Once already during the evening his conduct had attracted attention and he began to realize that there was a better way of winning confidence than by intruding almost forcibly into other people's affairs . 
Accordingly he thoughtfully retraced his steps , feeling intensely disgusted with himself . 
What a fool I am ! he grumbled . 
If I had kept the old woman in suspense , instead of blurting out the truth , I might have learned the real object of her visit for she had an object . 
But what was it ? The doctor spent the two hours that remained to him before making his second visit in trying to discover it . 
But , although nothing prevented him from exploring the boundless fields of improbable possibilities , he could think of nothing satisfactory . 
There was only one certain point , that Madame Leon and Mademoiselle Marguerite were equally interested in the question as to whether the count would regain consciousness or not . 
For he was not deceived by Madame Leon , or by her pretended devotion to Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
At last midnight sounded the hour had come . 
Still the doctor did not move . 
Madame Leon had left the gate ajar , and the doctor had no difficulty in making his way into the courtyard . 
And if the doctor had listened , he would have heard such words as wages , and legacies , and remuneration for faithful service , and annuities repeated over and over again . 
But M. Jodon did not listen . 
Thinking he should find some servant inside , he entered the house . 
The door opening into the count's room was open , the room itself being brilliantly lighted by a large fire , and a lamp which stood on a corner of the mantel shelf . 
Instinctively the doctor paused and looked in . 
There had been no change since his first visit . 
Madame Leon and Mademoiselle Marguerite were his only attendants . 
A little ashamed of his indiscretion , the doctor retreated seven or eight steps down the stairs , and then ascended them again , coughing slightly , so as to announce his approach . 
This time he was heard . 
for Mademoiselle Marguerite came to the door to meet him . 
Alas ! He advanced toward the bed , but before he had time to examine his patient Mademoiselle Marguerite handed him a scrap of paper . 
The physician who usually attends M. de Chalusse has been here in your absence , monsieur , said she . 
This is his prescription , and we have already administered a few drops of the potion . 
M. Jodon , who was expecting this blow , bowed coldly . 
I must add , continued Mademoiselle Marguerite , that the doctor approved of all that had been done and I beg you will unite your skill with his in treating the case . 
Unfortunately all the medical skill of the faculty would have availed nothing here . 
After another examination , Dr . 
Jodon declared that it would be necessary to wait for the action of nature , but that he must be informed of the slightest change in the sick man's condition . 
And I will tell my servant to wake me at once if I am sent for , he added . 
He was already leaving the room , when Madame Leon barred his passage . 
Isn't it true , doctor , that one attentive person would suffice to watch over the count ? she asked . 
Most assuredly , he answered . 
The housekeeper turned toward Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Ah , you see , my dear young lady , she said , what did I tell you ? Listen to me take a little rest . 
Watching is not suitable work for one of your age It is useless to insist , interrupted the young girl , resolutely . 
I shall watch over him myself . 
The housekeeper made no reply but it seemed to the doctor that the two women exchanged singular glances . 
What can you fear ? she insisted , in her wheedling voice . 
At least , my dear lady , wrap yourself up warmly . 
Shall I go and bring you your heavy travelling shawl ? Thanks , my dear Leon Annette will bring it . 
Then , pray , send for it . 
But we are not going to watch alone ? What should we do if we needed anything ? I will call , replied Marguerite . 
This was unnecessary , for Dr . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite went toward them . 
Madame Leon and myself will remain with the count , she said . 
Annette this was the woman whom she liked best of all the servants Casimir and a footman will spend the night in the little side salon . 
From the streets outside , not a sound reached this princely abode , which stood between a vast courtyard and a garden as large as a park . 
Moreover , the straw which had been spread over the paving stones effectually deadened the rumble of the few vehicles that passed . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite did not suspect this affectionate espionage . 
But Mademoiselle Marguerite did not perceive this , absorbed as she was in thoughts which , by reason of their very profundity , had ceased to be sorrowful . 
About five o'clock the air became so close that she felt a sudden faintness , and opened the window to obtain a breath of fresh air . 
The noise aroused Madame Leon from her slumbers . 
She rose , yawned , and rather sullenly declared that she felt very queer , and would certainly fall ill if she did not take some refreshment . 
It became necessary to summon M. Casimir , who brought her a glass of Madeira and some biscuits . 
Now I feel better , she murmured , after her repast . 
My excessive sensibility will be the death of me . 
And so saying , she dropped asleep again . 
It was daylight when a strange and terrible shock awoke her . 
It seemed to her as if an icy hand , some dead person's hand , was gently stroking her head , and tenderly caressing her hair . 
She at once sprang to her feet . 
The sick man had regained consciousness his eyes were open and his right arm was moving . 
In an instant , almost , the sick room was full of servants , but the girl did not perceive it . 
But what ? They mentioned the different articles in the room everything indeed that they could think of . 
But in vain , until the housekeeper suddenly exclaimed He wishes to write . 
That was , indeed , what he desired . 
They raised him on his pillows , and brought him a small writing desk , with some paper , and a pen that had been dipped in ink . 
But like those around him , he had himself over estimated his strength if he could move his hand , he could not CONTROL its movements . 
After a terrible effort and intense suffering , however , he succeeded in tracing a few words , the meaning of which it was impossible to understand . 
It was only with the greatest difficulty that these words could be deciphered My entire fortune give friends against This signified nothing . 
In despair , he dropped the pen , and his glance and his hand turned to that part of the room opposite his bed . 
Monsieur means his escritoire , perhaps ? Yes , yes , the sick man hoarsely answered . 
Perhaps the count wishes that it should be opened ? Yes , yes ! was the reply again . 
My God ! exclaimed Mademoiselle Marguerite , with a gesture of despair what have I done ? I have broken the key . 
I feared the responsibility which would fall upon us all . 
The expression of the count's face had become absolutely frightful . 
It indicated utter discouragement , the most bitter suffering , the most horrible despair . 
His soul was writhing in a body from which life had fled . 
Intelligence , mind , and will were fast bound in a corpse which they could not electrify . 
A priest ! cried Madame Leon ! A priest ! In the name of Heaven , go for a priest ! Rather for a notary , suggested M. Casimir . 
You see he wishes to make a will . 
But at that moment the physician entered , pale and breathless . 
A feeling of mingled wonder , selfishness , and fear pervaded the group of servants . 
The physician was the only person who observed this . 
The other occupants of the room were exchanging looks of distress . 
Some of the women had fallen upon their knees , and were sobbing and praying in the same breath . 
But Madame Leon's sobs could be heard above the rest . 
But pray , doctor , remove my beloved Marguerite from this scene , which is too terrible for her young and tender heart . 
Persuade her to retire to her own room , so that she may ask God for strength to bear the misfortune which has befallen her . 
The poor girl had certainly no intention of leaving the room , but before she could say so , M. Casimir stepped forward . 
I think , he dryly observed , that mademoiselle had better remain here . 
Eh ? said Madame Leon , looking up suddenly . 
And why , if you please ? Because because Anger had dried the housekeeper's tears . 
What do you mean ? she asked . 
Her own house ! he answered her own house ! Yesterday I shouldn't have denied it but to day it's quite another thing . 
Is she a relative ? No , she isn't . 
What are you talking about , then ? We are all equals here . 
He spoke so impudently that even the doctor felt indignant . 
But the valet turned toward him with an air which proved that he was well acquainted with the doctor's servant , and , consequently , with all the secrets of the master's life . 
Call your own valet a scoundrel , if you choose , he retorted , but not me . 
Your duties here are over , aren't they ? So leave us to manage our own affairs . 
Thank heaven , I know what I'm talking about . 
In case any valuables were missed , who would be accused of taking them ? Why , the poor servants , of course . 
Ah , they have broad shoulders ! Their trunks would be searched and even if nothing were found , they would be sent to prison all the same . 
In the meantime other people would escape with the booty . 
No , Lisette ! No one will stir from this room until the arrival of the justice Madame Leon was bursting with rage . 
All right ! she interrupted I'm going to send for the count's particular friend , General I don't care a fig for your general . 
Wretch ! It was Mademoiselle Marguerite who put an end to this indecent dispute . 
Its increasing violence had aroused her from her stupor . 
Casimir's impudence brought a flush to her forehead , and stepping forward with haughty resolution , she exclaimed You forget that one never raises one's voice in the chamber of death . 
Her words were so true , and her manner so majestic , that M. Casimir was silenced . 
Then , pointing to the door , she coldly added Go for the justice of the peace , and don't set foot here again , except in his company . 
He bowed , stammered an unintelligible apology , and left the room . 
She always gets the best of me , he growled , as he went downstairs . 
But seals shall be put on everything . 
When he entered the porter's lodge , M. Bourigeau was just getting up , having slept all night , while his wife watched . 
Quick , ordered M. Casimir make haste and finish dressing , and run for the justice of the peace we must have him here at once . 
Everything must be done regularly and in order , upstairs . 
The concierge was in despair . 
Heavens ! he exclaimed so the master's dead ! What a misfortune ! You may well say so and this is the second time such a thing has happened to me . 
I remember now what a shrewd fellow named Chupin once said to me . 
But make haste , Bourigeau . 
That's a famous idea , but scarcely practicable , growled the concierge . 
I don't know whether it is or not . 
But at all events I'm terribly annoyed . 
The count was giving me enormous wages , and I had got him nicely into my ways . 
You've only yourself to look out for . 
I have my furniture and if I don't succeed in finding a position where I can have two rooms , I shall be obliged to sell part of it . 
He had made some thirty turns or so , and was beginning to feel impatient , when he saw Victor Chupin approaching . 
You are always on hand at the right moment , remarked M. Casimir . 
It's all over ! Chupin turned eagerly . 
Then our bargain holds ? he exclaimed . 
You understand what I mean the funeral , you know . 
It isn't certain that I shall have anything to do with it but call again in three hours from now . 
All right , I'll be here . 
And M. Fortunat ? asked Casimir . 
He received what he called a 'violent shock' last evening , but he's better this morning . 
He instructed me to tell you that he should look for you between twelve and one you know where . 
I'll endeavor to be there , although it may be difficult for me to get away . 
It's a strange letter , upon my word ! Chupin gazed at the valet with a look of mingled wonder and admiration . 
I see Bourigeau in the distance , bringing the justice of the peace . 
He was considerably over fifty , tall , and very thin , with bent shoulders . 
His clothes were rather old fashioned in cut , but by no means ridiculous . 
Moreover , like all men who are accustomed to deliberate in public , his features were expressionless . 
He could see and hear everything , suspect and understand everything , without letting a muscle of his face move . 
And yet the habitues of his audience chamber , and his clerks , pretended that they could always detect the nature of his impressions . 
A ring which he wore upon one of his fingers served as a barometer for those who knew him . 
If a difficult case , or one that embarrassed his conscience , presented itself , his eyes fixed themselves obstinately upon this ring . 
In appearance , he was sufficiently imposing to intimidate even M. Casimir . 
If monsieur wishes I will explain , resumed M. Casimir . 
Nothing ! It is quite unnecessary . 
This us astonished the valet but before they reached the house it was explained to him . 
He discovered a man of flourishing and even jovial mien who was walking along in the magistrate's shadow carrying a large black portfolio under his arm . 
This was evidently the clerk . 
Perhaps he was calculating how many years' salary it would require to pay for the decorating of this one staircase . 
On the threshold of the death room the magistrate paused . 
There had been some change during M. Casimir's absence . 
The bed had been rearranged , and several candles were burning on a table covered with a white cloth . 
Madame Leon had gone to her own room , accompanied by two servants , to fetch a vessel of holy water and a branch of withered palm . 
She was now engaged in repeating the prayers for the dead , pausing from time to time to dip the palm branch in the holy water , and sprinkle the bed . 
Both windows had been opened in spite of the cold . 
As the magistrate appeared , every one rose up . 
Then , after bestowing prolonged scrutiny upon the room and its occupants , he respectfully removed his hat , and walked in . 
Why are so many people here ? he inquired . 
I suggested that they should remain , replied M. Casimir , because You are suspicious , interrupted the magistrate . 
Since the magistrate had entered the room , his eyes had not once wandered from Mademoiselle Marguerite , who was standing near the fireplace , looking pale but composed . 
At last he approached her , and in a tone of deep sympathy Are you Mademoiselle Marguerite ? he asked . 
She raised her clear eyes , rendered more beautiful than ever , by the tears that trembled on her lashes , and in a faltering voice , replied Yes , monsieur . 
Are you a relative ? Are you connected in any way with the Count de Chalusse ? Have you any right to his property ? No , monsieur . 
Excuse me , mademoiselle , but these questions are indispensable . 
Who intrusted you to the care of M. de Chalusse , and by what right ? Was it your father or your mother ? I have neither father nor mother , monsieur . 
I am alone in the world utterly alone . 
The magistrate glanced keenly round the room . 
Ah ! I understand , said he , at last advantage has been taken of your isolation to treat you with disrespect , to insult you , perhaps . 
Every head drooped , and M. Casimir bitterly regretted that he had not remained below in the courtyard . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite looked at the magistrate in astonishment , for she was amazed by his penetration . 
I shall have the honor of asking for a few moments' conversation with you presently , mademoiselle , he said . 
But first , one question . 
I am told that the Count de Chalusse entertained a very lively affection for you . 
Are you sure that he has not taken care to provide for your future ? Are you sure that he has not left a will ? The girl shook her head . 
He made one in my favor some time ago , she replied . 
I saw it he gave it to me to read but it was destroyed a fortnight after my arrival here , and in compliance with my request . 
Madame Leon had hitherto been dumb with fear , but , conquering her weakness , she now decided to draw near and take part in the conversation . 
How can you say that , my dear young lady ? she exclaimed . 
You know that the count God rest his soul ! was an extremely cautious man . 
I am certain that there is a will somewhere . 
The magistrate's eyes were fixed on his ring . 
It would be well to look , perhaps , before affixing the seals . 
You have a right to require this so , if you wish But she made no reply . 
Oh , yes ! insisted Madame Leon pray look , monsieur . 
But where should we be likely to find a will ? Certainly in this room in this escritoire , or in one of the deceased count's cabinets . 
I hoped to avert what has , nevertheless , happened . 
Besides , I knew that his escritoire contained something over two millions in gold and bank notes . 
Two millions there ! The occupants of the room stood aghast . 
Even the clerk was so startled that he let a blot fall upon his paper . 
Two millions ! The magistrate was evidently reflecting . 
Hum ! he murmured , meditatively . 
Then , as if deciding on his course , he exclaimed Let a locksmith be sent for . 
A servant went in search of one and while they were waiting for his return , the magistrate sat down beside his clerk and talked to him in a low voice . 
At last the locksmith appeared , with his bag of tools hanging over his shoulder , and set to work at once . 
He found his task a difficult one . 
His pick locks would not catch , and he was talking of filing the bolt , when , by chance , he found the joint , and the door flew open . 
But the escritoire was empty . 
There were only a few papers , and a bottle about three quarters full of a crimson liquid on the shelf . 
Had M. de Chalusse rose and shook off his winding sheet , the consternation would not have been greater . 
The same instinctive fear thrilled the hearts of everybody present . 
An enormous fortune had disappeared . 
The same suspicions would rest upon them all . 
And each servant already saw himself arrested , imprisoned , and dragged before a law court . 
However , anger speedily followed bewilderment , and a furious clamor arose . 
A robbery has been committed ! cried the servants , in concert . 
It is wrong to suspect the innocent ! Revolting as this exhibition was , it did not modify the magistrate's calmness . 
Silence ! he commanded sternly . 
And as the tumult did not cease , as the servants continued to cry , The thief must be found . 
We shall have no difficulty in discovering the culprit , the magistrate exclaimed , still more imperiously Another word , and you all leave the room . 
They were silenced but there was a mute eloquence about their looks and gestures which it was impossible to misunderstand . 
Every eye was fixed upon Mademoiselle Marguerite with an almost ferocious expression . 
She knew it only too well but , sublime in her energy , she stood , with her head proudly erect , facing the storm , and disdaining to answer these vile imputations . 
However she had a protector near by the magistrate in person . 
If this treasure has been diverted from the inheritance , said he , the thief will be discovered and punished . 
But I wish to have one point explained who said that Mademoiselle Marguerite had the key of the escritoire ? I did , replied a footman . 
I was in the dining room yesterday morning when the count gave it to her . 
For what purpose did he give it to her ? That she might obtain this vial I recognized it at once . 
She brought it down to him . 
Did she return the key ? Yes she gave it to him when she handed him the vial , and I saw him put it in his pocket . 
The magistrate pointed to the bottle which was standing on the shelf . 
Then the count himself must have put the vial back in its place , said he . 
Further comment is unnecessary for , if the money had then been missing , he could not have failed to discover the fact . 
No one had any reply to make to this quiet defence , which was , at the same time , a complete vindication . 
He also was blase , having witnessed too many of those frightful and shameless dramas which are enacted at a dead man's bedside , to be surprised at anything . 
In this room were He paused in his dictation , and addressing the clerk , Take down the names of all present , said he . 
That will require some little time , and , meanwhile , I will continue my search . 
They had , in fact , only examined the shelf of the escritoire , and the drawers were still to be inspected . 
In the first which he opened , the magistrate found ample proofs of the accuracy of the information which had been furnished him by Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
It was thus evident that M. de Chalusse had received a grand total of two million two hundred and seventy three thousand francs within the past six days . 
The third and last drawer contained twenty eight thousand francs , in packages of twenty franc pieces . 
These were evidently the relics of some great passion of many years before and the magistrate looked at them for a moment with a sigh . 
His own interest prevented him from noticing Mademoiselle Marguerite's agitation . 
She had almost fainted on perceiving these souvenirs of the count's past life so suddenly exhumed . 
Who will take charge of this money ? Oh , not I ! exclaimed Madame Leon . 
I will take charge of it , said M. Casimir . 
Then here are eight thousand francs , for which you will be held accountable . 
M. Casimir being a prudent man , counted the money himself , and after doing so , Who will attend to the count's obsequies ? he inquired . 
You , and without loss of time . 
From the count's bedroom they passed into his study , followed by Mademoiselle Marguerite , Madame Leon , and the servants . 
And when he was obliged to abandon his search , his gesture indicated anger rather than discouragement for apparent evidence had not shaken his conviction in the least . 
So he stood motionless , with his eyes riveted on his ring , as if waiting some miraculous inspiration from it . 
For the count's only fault , I am sure , was in being too cautious , he muttered . 
This is frequently the case , and it would be quite in keeping with the character of this man , judging from what I know of him . 
Madame Leon lifted her hands to heaven . 
Ah , yes ! such was , indeed , his nature , she remarked , approvingly . 
Never , no never , have I seen such a suspicious and distrustful person as he was . 
Not in reference to money no , indeed for he left that lying about everywhere but about his papers . 
He locked them up with the greatest care , as if he feared that some terrible secret might evaporate from them . 
It was a mania with him . 
If he had a letter to write , he barricaded his door , as if he were about to commit some horrible crime . 
More than once have I seen him The words died away on her lips , and she remained motionless and abashed , like a person who has just escaped some great peril . 
Still , she deluded herself with the belief that this slight indiscretion of her overready tongue had escaped the magistrate's notice . 
You see , mademoiselle , he remarked , that I have done all that is in my power to do . 
We must now leave the search to chance , and to the person who takes the inventory . 
As regards the rest , I have never expected anything I do not expect anything now . 
She believed what she said , and her tone of voice proved this so unmistakably that the magistrate was surprised and somewhat disturbed . 
Come , come , my young lady , he said , with almost paternal kindness of manner , you ought not to despond . 
On hearing these words , the clerk rose with a cloud on his jovial face . 
He impatiently jingled his bunch of keys for as the seals are successively affixed , each key is confided to the clerk , to remain in his hands until the seals are removed . 
I understand , said the magistrate . 
Your stomach , which is more exacting in its demands than mine , is not satisfied with a cup of chocolate till dinner time . 
So , go and get your lunch on your return , you will find me here . 
You may now conclude the report , and request these parties to sign it . 
I will send for him at once , replied the housekeeper and thereupon she left the room , closing the door behind her with a vicious slam . 
The justice of the peace and Mademoiselle Marguerite were at last alone in M. de Chalusse's study . 
This room , which the count had preferred above all others , was a spacious , magnificent , but rather gloomy apartment , with lofty walls and dark , richly carved furniture . 
Its present aspect was more than ever solemn and lugubrious , for it gave one a chill to see the bands of white tape affixed to the locks of the cabinets and bookcases . 
The magistrate was asking himself how he should begin . 
Still , he must make a beginning . 
I will answer your questions frankly , or else not answer them at all . 
To resume , then , said he , I am told that M. de Chalusse has no relatives , near or remote . 
Is this the truth ? So far as I know yes , monsieur . 
And has this sister never given any sign of life ? Never ! Still , monsieur , I have promised you to be perfectly frank . 
That letter which the Count de Chalusse received yesterday , that letter which I regard as the cause of his death well , I have a presentiment that it came from his sister . 
It could only have been written by her or by that other person whose letters and souvenirs you found in the escritoire . 
Perhaps I am the count's daughter . 
I should be telling an untruth if I said that was not my belief . 
Yes , I believe it , but I have never been certain of it . 
Sometimes I have believed , sometimes I have doubted it . 
On certain days I have said to myself , 'Yes , it must be so ! and I have longed to throw my arms around his neck . 
But at other times I have exclaimed 'No , it isn't possible ! and I have almost hated him . 
Besides , he never said a word on the subject never a decisive word , at least . 
And yet as he listened to Mademoiselle Marguerite , he experienced that strange disquietude which seizes hold of a person when a puzzling problem is presented . 
Allow me to believe that many decisive proofs may have escaped your notice on account of your inexperience , he said . 
But interrupting him with a gesture , she sadly remarked You are mistaken I am not inexperienced . 
He could not help smiling at what he considered her self conceit . 
Poor child ! said he how old are you ? Eighteen ? She shook her head . 
Those who have lived such a life as I have , are never young they are old in suffering , even in their childhood . 
The person who claims counsel owes absolute frankness to his adviser . 
I will speak to you as if I were communing with my own soul . 
I will tell you what no person has ever known no one , not even Pascal . 
And believe me , my past life was full of bitter misery , although you find me here in this splendid house . 
But I have nothing to conceal and if I have cause to blush , it is for others , not for myself . 
My first recollections , she said , are of a narrow , cheerless courtyard , surrounded by grim and massive walls , so high that I could scarcely see the top of them . 
At noontime in summer the sun visited one little corner , where there was a stone bench but in winter it never showed itself at all . 
There were five or six small , scrubby trees , with moss grown trunks and feeble branches , which put forth a few yellow leaves at springtime . 
As a rule , each face wore the same expression of resignation , unvarying gentleness , and inexhaustible patience . 
Poor sister ! I owe her the only happy hours of my infancy . 
She was called Sister Calliste . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was indeed weeping big tears which she made no attempt to conceal were coursing down her cheeks . 
It cost her a great effort to continue You have already understood , monsieur , what I myself did not know for several years . 
I was in a foundling asylum , and I was a foundling myself . 
I cannot say that we lacked anything and I should be ungrateful if I did not say and feel that these good sisters were charity personified . 
In winter we had a fire . 
Our clothes were warm and neat our food was excellent . 
We were taught to read and write , to sew and embroider . 
There was a recreation hour between all the exercises . 
Those who were studious and good were rewarded and twice a week we were taken into the country for a long walk . 
It was during one of these excursions that I learned from the talk of the passers by , what we were , and what we were called . 
Sometimes , in the afternoon , we were visited by elegantly attired ladies , who were accompanied by their own children , radiant with health and happiness . 
The good sisters told us that these were 'pious ladies , or 'charitable ladies , whom we must love and respect , and whom we must never forget to mention in our prayers . 
They always brought us toys and cakes . 
Sometimes the establishment was visited by priests and grave old gentlemen , whose sternness of manner alarmed us . 
They peered into every nook and corner , asked questions about everything , assured themselves that everything was in its place , and some of them even tasted our soup . 
And the gentlemen were right . 
The magistrate , who was extremely ill at ease , had not yet succeeded in finding a syllable to offer in reply . 
Indeed , Mademoiselle Marguerite had not given him an opportunity to speak , so rapidly had this long repressed flood of recollections poured from her lips . 
When she spoke the word mother , the magistrate fancied she would show some sign of emotion . 
On the contrary , her voice became harsher , and a flash of anger , as it were , darted from her eyes . 
I suffered exceedingly in that asylum , she resumed . 
Sister Calliste left the establishment , and all the surroundings chilled and repelled me . 
My only few hours of happiness were on Sundays , when we attended church . 
As the great organ pealed , and as I watched the priests officiating at the altar in their gorgeous vestments , I forgot my own sorrows . 
And to my shame , monsieur , I must confess it these unfortunate little beings inspired me with unconquerable repugnance , with disgust bordering on aversion . 
I would rather have pressed my lips to a red hot iron than to the forehead of one of these children . 
I did not reason on the subject , alas ! I was only eight or nine years old but I felt this antipathy in every fibre of my being . 
The others knew it too and , in revenge , they ironically styled me 'the lady , and left me severely alone . 
But sometimes , during playtime , when the good sisters' backs were turned , the children attacked me , beat me , and scratched my face and tore my clothes . 
I endured these onslaughts uncomplainingly , for I was conscious that I deserved them . 
But how many reprimands my torn clothes cost me ! How many times I received only a dry crust for my supper , after being soundly scolded and called 'little careless . 
But as I was quiet , studious , and industrious , a quicker learner than the majority of my companions , the sisters were fond of me . 
The only fault the sisters found with me was that I was sullen . 
But such was not really the case I was only sad and resigned . 
Everything around me so depressed and saddened me that I withdrew into myself , and buried all my thoughts and aspirations deep in my heart . 
If I had naturally been a bad child , I scarcely know what would have been the result of this . 
I have often asked myself the question in all sincerity , but I have been unable to reply , for one cannot be an impartial judge respecting one's self . 
The thought of arraying myself in this dress to approach the holy table frightened and revolted me as much as if I had been sentenced to drape myself in a winding sheet . 
And yet it was the prettiest dress of all white muslin beautifully embroidered . 
It had been ardently coveted by the other children , and had been given to me as a sort of reward of merit . 
And I dared not explain the cause of my unconquerable repugnance . 
Who would have understood me ? I should only have been accused of undue sensitiveness and pride , absurd in one of my humble position . 
I was then only twelve years old but no one knew the struggle in my mind save the old priest , my confessor . 
I could confess everything to him he understood me , and did not reproach me . 
Still he answered 'You must wear this dress , my child , for your pride must be broken . 
Go I shall impose no other penance on you . 
I obeyed him , full of superstitious terror for it seemed to me that this was a frightful omen which would bring me misfortune , my whole life through . 
And I was confirmed in the dead girl's embroidered dress . 
However she resumed her story . 
The confirmation over , our life became as gloomily monotonous as before we read the same pious books and did the same work at the same hours as formerly . 
It seemed to me that I was stifling in this atmosphere . 
I gasped for breath , and thought that anything would be preferable to this semblance of existence , which was not real life . 
I entered this office with a throbbing heart . 
Ah ! monsieur , it seemed to me that heaven had opened before me and I boldly replied 'Yes . 
I must confess that I could not clearly realize in what this great generosity which he so highly praised consisted , nor did I perceive any reason why I should be particularly grateful . 
Still , to all the conditions imposed upon me , I answered , 'Yes , yes , yes ! so heartily that Madame Greloux seemed greatly pleased . 
'It is evident that the child will be glad to get away , she said to herself . 
At last , when the man and his wife had said 'Amen' to everything , the gentleman with the spectacles drew up a document which we all signed in turn . 
I belonged to a master ? She paused . 
But almost immediately she resumed My recollections of these people are not altogether unpleasant . 
Still , between Madame Greloux's tempests of wrath there were occasional gleams of sunshine . 
After beating us for nothing , she would exclaim , with quite as little reason , 'Come and kiss me , and don't pout any more . 
Here are four sous go and buy yourself some cakes . 
The justice started in his arm chair . 
She did not even notice the magistrate's astonishment . 
I had left the asylum , she continued , and that was everything to me . 
I felt that a new and different life was beginning , and that was enough . 
My patrons no doubt fathomed my desire , and naturally enough , perhaps unconsciously , they took advantage of my wish to please . 
I can scarcely blame them . 
I had entered their home under certain conditions in view of learning a profession they gradually made me their servant it was praiseworthy economy on their part . 
What I had at first done of my own freewill and from a wish to please , at last became my daily task , which I was rigidly required to fulfil . 
It is true that my benefactors rewarded me after their fashion . 
On Sundays they took me with them on their excursions into the country , so as to give me a rest , they said , after the week's work . 
Madame Greloux's brother generally accompanied us and his name would have lingered in my memory , even if it had not been a peculiar one . 
He was a tall , robust man . 
with eyes that made me tremble whenever he fixed them upon me . 
He was a soldier intensely proud of his uniform a great talker , and enchanted with himself . 
He evidently thought himself irresistible . 
It was from that man's mouth that I heard the first coarse word at which my unsophisticated heart took offence . 
It was not to be the last one . 
He finally told me that he had taken a fancy to me , and I was obliged to complain to Madame Greloux of her brother's persecutions . 
But she only laughed at me , and said 'Nonsense ! He's merely talking to hear himself talk . 
Yes , that was her answer . 
And yet she was an honest woman , a devoted wife , and a fond mother . 
Ah ! if she had had a daughter . 
But with a poor apprentice , who has neither father nor mother , one need not be over fastidious . 
She had made a great many promises to the lady superior , but she fancied that the utterance of a few commonplace words of warning relieved her of all further obligations . 
'And so much the worse for those who allow themselves to be fooled , she always added in conclusion . 
Fortunately , my pride , which I had so often been reproached with , shielded me . 
My condition might be humble , but my spirit was lofty . 
It was a blessing from God , this pride of mine , for it saved me from temptation , while so many fell around me . 
I slept , with the other apprentices , in the attic , where we were entirely beyond the control of those who should have been our guardians . 
That is to say , when the day's toil was over , and the work shop closed , we were free abandoned to our own instincts , and the most pernicious influences . 
And neither evil advice nor bad example was wanting . 
The women employed in the bindery in nowise restrained themselves in our presence , and we heard them tell marvellous stories that dazzled many a poor girl . 
Ah ! experience is quickly gained in these work shops . 
They departed radiant , but often before a month was over they came back , emaciated , hollow eyed , and despairing , and humbly begged for a little work . 
She paused , so crushed by the weight of these sad memories as to lose consciousness of the present . 
And the judge also remained silent , not daring to question her . 
However , it was not long before Mademoiselle Marguerite shook off the torpor which had stolen over her . 
I ought not to boast of my strength , sir , she resumed . 
Besides my pride , I had a hope to sustain me a hope which I clung to with the tenacity of despair . 
I wished to become expert at my profession , for I had learned that skilled workers were always in demand , and could always command good wages . 
So when my household duties were over , I still found time to learn the business , and made such rapid progress that I astonished even my employer . 
I had never failed in this duty , and indeed it had now become my only pleasure . 
After living all my life on public charity , I was able to give in my turn and this thought gratified my pride , and increased my importance in my own eyes . 
Downstairs , at the front door , stood the most magnificent carriage I had ever seen in my life . 
'You must get into the carriage , said the sister 'it was sent for you . 
As soon as I entered , the superior took me by the hand and led me toward a gentleman who was sitting near the window . 
'Marguerite , said she , 'salute Monsieur le Comte de Chalusse . 
For some little time there had been a noise of footsteps and a subdued murmur of voices in the vestibule . 
Annoyed by this interruption , although he perfectly understood its cause , the magistrate rose and hastily opened the door . 
His clerk had returned from lunch , and the time of waiting seemed extremely long to him . 
Ah ! it's you , said the magistrate . 
Very well ! begin your inventory . 
It won't be long before I join you . 
And closing the door he resumed his seat again . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was so absorbed in her narrative that she scarcely noticed this incident , and he had not seated himself before she resumed . 
In all my life , I had never seen such an imposing looking person as the Count de Chalusse . 
His manner , attire , and features could not fail to inspire a child like me with fear and respect . 
I was so awed that I had scarcely enough presence of mind to bow to him . 
He glanced at me coldly , and exclaimed 'Ah ! is this the young girl you were speaking of ? The count's tone betrayed such disagreeable surprise that the superior was dismayed . 
She looked at me , and seemed indignant at my more than modest attire . 
'It's a shame to allow a child to leave home dressed in this fashion , she angrily exclaimed . 
And she almost tore my huge apron off me , and then with her own hands began to arrange my hair as if to display me to better advantage . 
'Ah ! these employers , she exclaimed , 'the best of them are bad . 
How they do deceive you . 
It's impossible to place any confidence in their promises . 
Still , one can't always be at their heels . 
But the superior's efforts were wasted , for M. de Chalusse had turned away and had begun talking with some gentlemen near by . 
For the office was full that morning . 
Five or six gentlemen , whom I recognized as the directors of the asylum , were standing round the steward in the black skullcap . 
They were evidently talking about me . 
I was certain of this by the glances they gave me , glances which , however , were full of kindness . 
The superior joined the group and began speaking with unusual vivacity , while standing in the recess of a window , I listened with all my might . 
I was only certain of one point the Count de Chalusse wished something , and these gentlemen were specifying other things in exchange . 
To each of their demands he answered 'Yes , yes it's granted . 
I cannot describe the surprise and indignation that were raging in my soul . 
I divined I felt that it was MY fate , MY future , MY life that were being decided , and I was not even consulted on the matter . 
They were disposing of me as if they were sure in advance of my consent . 
My pride revolted at the thought , but I could not find a word to say in protest . 
Crimson with shame , confused and furious , I was wondering how I could interfere , when suddenly the consultation ceased and the gentlemen at once surrounded me . 
It seemed to me that he was suffering terribly , and I afterward learned that I had not been mistaken . 
'The count , she said , 'was to become my guardian . 
This was all true , incredible as it might seem . 
They had given him a list of all the children in the institution , and he had chosen me . 
'A mere chance , my dear Marguerite , repeated the superior . 
'A mere chance or rather a true miracle . 
It did , indeed , seem a miracle , but I was more surprised than elated . 
I longed to be alone , so as to deliberate and reflect , for I knew that I was free to accept or decline this dazzling offer . 
I timidly asked permission to return to my employers to inform them of what had happened and consult with them but my request was refused . 
The superior told me that I must deliberate and decide alone and that when once my decision was taken , there could be no change . 
So I remained at the asylum , and dined at the superior's table and during the night I occupied the room of a sister who was absent . 
What surprised me most of all was the deference with which I was treated . 
The sisters all seemed to consider me a person of great importance . 
My indecision may seem absurd and hypocritical but it was really sincere . 
My present situation was certainly by no means an enviable one . 
But the worst was over my term as an apprentice had nearly expired , and my future seemed assured . 
My future ! What could it be with the Count de Chalusse ? It was painted in such brilliant colors that it frightened me . 
More than this , the thought of yielding myself up to a stranger terrified me . 
Forty eight hours had been granted me to consider my decision , and till the very last instant I remained in doubt . 
Who knows ? Perhaps it would have been better for me if I had returned to my humble life . 
At all events , I should have been spared a great deal of sorrow and humiliation . 
But I lacked the courage and when the time expired , I consented to the new arrangement . 
Should I live a thousand years I shall never forget the day I left the foundling asylum to become the Count de Chalusse's ward . 
It was a Saturday , and I had given my answer to the superior on the evening before . 
The next morning I received a visit from my former employers , who , having been informed of the great change in my prospects , had come to bid me good bye . 
The cancelling of my apprenticeship had at first caused some trouble , but eventually the count's gold silenced their objections . 
Still , they were sorry to part with me , as I plainly saw . 
Their eyes were moist with tears . 
They were sorry to lose the poor little servant who had served them so faithfully . 
At the same time , however , I noticed evident constraint in their manner . 
They no longer said 'thee' and 'thou' to me they no longer spoke roughly but they said 'you , and addressed me as 'mademoiselle . 
Poor people ! they awkwardly apologized for having ventured to accept my services , declaring in the same breath that they should never be able to replace me at the same price . 
Madame Greloux , moreover , declared that she should never forgive herself for not having sharply reproved her brother for his abominable conduct . 
He was a good for nothing fellow , she said , as was proved by the fact that he had dared to raise his eyes to me . 
But it was too late . 
A sister came to tell me that the superior wished to see me . 
I bade Father and Mother Greloux farewell and went downstairs . 
In the superior's room , a lady and two shop girls , laden with boxes and parcels , were waiting for me . 
It was a dressmaker who had come with some clothes suited to my new station in life . 
I was told that she had been sent by the Count de Chalusse . 
This great nobleman thought of everything and , although he had thirty servants to do his bidding , he never disdained to occupy himself with the pettiest details . 
So , for the first time , I was arrayed in rustling silk and clinging cashmere . 
My toilette was no trifling affair . 
All the good sisters clustered round me , and tried to beautify me with the same care and patience as they would have displayed in adorning the Virgin's statue for a fete day . 
A secret instinct warned me that they were overdoing the matter , and that they were making me look ridiculous but I did not mind . 
When they had completed their task , I heard a buzz of admiration round me . 
If the sisters were worthy of belief , they had never seen such a wonderful transformation . 
Those who were in the class rooms or thee sewing room , were summoned to view and admire me , and some of the elder children were also admitted . 
Perhaps I was intended as an example for the latter , for I heard the lady superior say to them , 'You see , my dear children , the result of good behavior . 
Be diligent and dutiful , like our dear Marguerite , and God will reward you as He has rewarded her . 
And , meantime , miserable in my finery , I waited waited for M. de Chalusse , who was coming to take me away . 
At the appointed hour he appeared , with the same air of haughty reserve , that had so awed me on the occasion of our first meeting . 
He scarcely deigned to look at me , and although I watched him with poignant anxiety , I could read neither blame nor approval on his face . 
'You see that your wishes have been scrupulously obeyed , Monsieur le Comte , said the superior . 
'I thank you , he replied 'and I shall prove the extent of my gratitude to the poor children under your charge . 
Then , turning to me 'Marguerite , he said , 'take leave of your mothers , and tell them that you will never forget their kindness . 
The girl paused , for her emotion had rendered her words almost unintelligible . 
But , with an effort , she speedily conquered her weakness . 
It was only then , she continued , that I realized how much I loved these poor nuns , whom I had sometimes almost cursed . 
I felt now how close the ties were , that bound me to this hospitable roof , and to these unfortunate children , my companions in misery and loneliness . 
It seemed to me as if my heart were breaking and the superior , who was generally so impassible , appeared scarcely less moved than myself . 
At last , M. de Chalusse took me by the hand and led me away . 
It was drawn by four gray horses . 
I felt more dead than alive , as I entered the carriage and took the seat which the count pointed out . 
He sat down opposite to me . 
All the sisters had assembled at the door of the asylum , and even the superior wept without making any attempt to hide her tears . 
'Farewell ! they all cried 'farewell , farewell , dear child ! Don't forget your old friends . 
We shall pray for your happiness . 
Alas ! God could not have heard their prayers . 
At a sign from M. de Chalusse , a footman closed the door , the postilions cracked their whips , and the heavy vehicle rolled away . 
Whatever my future might prove , I felt that my past was gone forever . 
And I was frightfully agitated by the strange , indefinable feeling , kindled in my heart but I no longer trembled with fear . 
An inward voice whispered that this was but the renewal of a former tie one which had somehow been mysteriously broken . 
And Heaven knows there are plenty of these stories transmitted by the sisters from generation to generation , till they have become a sort of Golden Legend for poor foundlings . 
And thus influenced , I fixed my eyes on the face of the Count de Chalusse , striving to discover some resemblance in his features to my own . 
On the contrary , I thought it perfectly natural , dictated as it had been by circumstances , and by the count's own words and manner . 
Our carriage had drawn up outside the railway station , and the next instant we alighted . 
M. de Chalusse found the servants , who were to accompany us , awaiting him . 
They had thought of everything , and made every possible arrangement for our comfort . 
I had scarcely time to glance round me before we were on the platform in front of a train , which was ready to start . 
'Not there , said he , 'come with me . 
I followed him , and he led me to a magnificent saloon carriage , much higher and roomier than the others , and emblazoned with the Chalusse coat of arms . 
'This is our carriage , dear Marguerite , he said . 
The whistle sounded and the train started off . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was growing very tired . 
Big drops of perspiration stood out on her forehead , she panted for breath , and her voice began to fail her . 
The magistrate was almost frightened . 
Pray rest a little , mademoiselle , he entreated , there is no hurry . 
But she shook her head and replied It is better to go on . 
I should never have courage to begin again if I paused . 
And thereupon she continued I had never gone farther than Versailles . 
This journey was at first as delightful as a glimpse into fairy land . 
Our carriage was one of those costly whims which some millionaires indulge in . 
It consisted of a central saloon a perfect chef d'oeuvre of taste and luxury with two compartments at either end , furnished with comfortable sleeping accommodation . 
And all this , the count seemed never weary of repeating , was mine mine alone . 
Leaning back on the velvet cushions , I gazed at the changing landscape , as the train rushed madly on . 
Leaning over me , M. de Chalusse named all the towns and villages we passed Brunoy , Melun , Fontainebleau , Villeneuve , Sens , Laroche . 
And each time the train stopped the servants came to ask if we wished for anything . 
When we reached Lyons , in the middle of the night , we found a delicious supper awaiting us . 
It was served as soon as we alighted , and in due time we were warned that the train was ready to start , and then we resumed our journey . 
You can imagine , perhaps , how marvellous all this seemed to a poor little apprentice , whose only ambition a week before was to earn five francs a day . 
However , when I woke up I became terribly anxious . 
I asked myself what was awaiting me at the end of this long journey . 
He told me that he proposed spending a few months here in seclusion , so as to give me time to accustom myself to my new position and the luxury that surrounded me . 
I was , indeed , extremely awkward , and my excessive timidity was increased by my pride . 
I did not know what to say , or what to do . 
I did not know how to use my hands , nor how to walk , nor how to carry myself . 
Everything embarrassed and frightened me and I was conscious of my awkwardness , without being able to remedy it . 
I saw my blunders , and knew that I spoke a different language to that which was spoken around me . 
And yet the memory of Cannes will ever be dear to me . 
For there I first met the only friend I have now left in this world . 
At that time , however , he was a stranger to me and nothing on earth would have induced me to make inquiries concerning him . 
It was only by chance I learned that he lived in Paris , that his name was Pascal , and that he had come south as a companion to a sick friend . 
By a single word the count could have insured the happiness of my life and his own , but he did not speak it . 
He was the kindest and most indulgent of guardians , and I was often affected to tears by his tenderness . 
But , although my slightest wish was law , he did not grant me his confidence . 
The secret the mystery that stood between us was like a wall of ice . 
And in answer to my inquiring glance , he said 'It must be . 
It would be folly to hesitate . 
Each moment increases the peril that threatens us . 
Could it be for himself that he trembled , this great nobleman , who was so powerful by reason of his exalted rank , his connections , and his wealth ? Certainly not . 
Was it for me , then ? Undoubtedly it was . 
Our hurried departure from Cannes confirmed me in my impression . 
It might have been truly called a flight . 
We left that same evening at eleven o'clock , in a pouring rain , with the first horses that could be procured . 
The other servants were dismissed with a princely gratuity , and told to disperse two days after our departure . 
We did not return to Paris , but journeyed toward the Italian frontier , and on arriving at Nice in the dead of night , we drove directly to the quay . 
The postilions unharnessed the horses , and we remained in the carriage . 
The valet , however , hastened off , and more than two hours elapsed before he returned . 
What M. de Chalusse desired was a vessel ready for sea , and the bark which the valet had chartered now came up to the quay . 
Our carriage was put on board , we went below , and before daybreak we were under way . 
Three days later we were in Genoa , registered under a false name in a second class hotel . 
A malefactor flying from justice could not have taken greater pains to mislead the detectives on his track . 
And facts proved conclusively that I was the sole cause of the count's apprehension . 
On one occasion I even heard him discussing with his valet the feasibility of clothing me in masculine attire . 
And it was only the difficulty of obtaining a suitable costume that prevented him from carrying this project into execution . 
Besides , she won't overtake us . 
It isn't certain that she has even followed us . 
How can she know anything about it ? She ! Who was she ? This is what I racked my brain to discover , but without success . 
Still he suffered none the less on that account , as was shown by the fact that the following month was spent in hurried journeys from one Italian city to another . 
It was the end of May before M. de Chalusse would consent to return to France and then we went direct to Lyons . 
We had spent a couple of days there , when the count informed me that prudence required us to separate for a time that our safety demanded this sacrifice . 
And without giving me time to say a word , he began to explain the advantages that would accrue from such an arrangement . 
I was extremely ignorant , and he wished me to profit by our temporary separation to raise my knowledge to a level with my new social position . 
He added that it would not be prudent for him to visit me and he made me solemnly promise that I would never mention his name to any of my schoolmates . 
I was to send any letters I might write to an address which he would give me , and he would sign his answers with a fictitious name . 
He also told me that the lady superior of Sainte Marthe knew his secret , and that I could confide in her . 
He was so restless and so miserably unhappy on the day when he acquainted me with these plans , that I really believed him insane . 
Nevertheless , I replied that I would obey him , and to tell the truth , I was not ill pleased at the thought of the change . 
My life with M. de Chalusse was a monotonous and cheerless one . 
Unfortunately , M. de Chalusse had forgotten one circumstance , which made my two years' sojourn at Sainte Marthe a lingering and cruel agony . 
At first I was kindly treated by my schoolmates . 
A new pupil is always welcome , for her arrival relieves the monotony of convent life . 
But it was not long before my companions wished to know my name and I had none other than Marguerite to give them . 
They were astonished and wished to know who my parents were . 
I could not tell an untruth and I was obliged to confess that I knew nothing at all respecting my father or my mother . 
After that 'the bastard' for such was the name they gave me was soon condemned to isolation . 
No one would associate with me during play time . 
No one would sit beside me in the school room . 
At the piano lesson , the girl who played after me pretended to wipe the keyboard carefully before commencing her exercises . 
I struggled bravely against this unjust ostracism but all in vain . 
I was so unlike these other girls in character and disposition , and I had , moreover , been guilty of a great imprudence . 
I had been silly enough to show my companions the costly jewels which M. de Chalusse had given me , but which I never wore . 
And on two occasions I had proved to them that I had more money at my disposal than all the other pupils together . 
If I had been poor , they would , perhaps , have treated me with affected sympathy but as I was rich , I became an enemy . 
It was war and one of those merciless wars which sometimes rage so furiously in convents , despite their seeming quiet . 
I should surprise you , monsieur , if I told you what refined torture these daughters of noblemen invented to gratify their petty spite . 
I might have complained to the superior , but I scorned to do so . 
Study became my refuge and consolation and I plunged into work with the energy of despair . 
I should probably still live at Sainte Marthe now , had it not been for a trivial circumstance . 
One day I had a quarrel with my most determined enemy , a girl named Anais de Rochecote . 
I was a thousand times right and I would not yield . 
The superior dared not tell me I was wrong . 
Anais was furious , and wrote I don't know what falsehoods to her mother . 
The superior tried to take my part but these ladies declared they would take their daughters from the convent if I were not sent away . 
There was no help for it I was sacrificed . 
Summoned by telegraph , M. de Chalusse hastened to Lyons , and two days later I left Sainte Marthe with jeers and opprobrious epithets ringing in my ears . 
X. Once before , that very morning , the magistrate had witnessed a display of the virile energy with which misfortune and suffering had endowed this proud but naturally timid girl . 
But he was none the less surprised at the sudden explosion of hatred which he now beheld for it was hatred . 
All signs of fatigue had now disappeared . 
She had sprung from her chair , and remembrance of the shameful , cowardly affront she had received had brought a vivid flush to her cheeks and a bright gleam to her eyes . 
This atrocious humiliation happened scarcely a year ago , monsieur , she resumed and there is but little left for me to tell you . 
My expulsion from Sainte Marthe made M. de Chalusse frantic with indignation . 
He knew something that I was ignorant of that Madame de Rochecote , who enacted the part of a severe and implacable censor , was famed for the laxity of her morals . 
The count's first impulse was to wreak vengeance on my persecutors for , in spite of his usual coolness , M. de Chalusse had a furious temper at times . 
It was only with the greatest difficulty that I dissuaded him from challenging General de Rochecote , who was living at the time . 
However , it now became necessary to make some other arrangements for me . 
M. de Chalusse offered to find another school , promising to take such precautions as would insure my peace of mind . 
But I interrupted him before he had spoken a dozen words , declaring I would rather return to the book binders than chance another such experiment . 
And what I said I meant . 
A subterfuge a fictitious name , for instance could alone shield me from persecution similar to what I had endured at Sainte Marthe . 
But I knew that I was incapable of playing such a part I felt that I should somehow confess everything . 
My firmness imparted some resolution to M. de Chalusse . 
He exclaimed , with an oath , that I was right that he was weary of all this deception and concealment , and that he would make arrangements to have me near him . 
As I needed a chaperon , he went in quest of one , and found Madame Leon . 
But Mademoiselle Marguerite's face remained unaltered in expression . 
After so many trials , she resumed , I thought I should now find rest and peace . 
Yes , I believed so and the few months I spent in that quiet house will be the happiest of my life I am sure of it . 
He was standing near the gate . 
A cloud passed before my eyes . 
What mysterious freak of fate had caused him to pause there at that particular moment ? This much is certain , he recognized me as I had recognized him . 
He bowed , smiling somewhat , and I fled indoors again , indignant with myself for not being angry at his audacity . 
I soon learned that he lived near by , with his widowed mother and twice a day , when he went to the Palais de Justice and returned , he passed my home . 
Her cheeks were crimson now , her eyes were lowered , and she was evidently embarrassed . 
A few moments' conversation now and then , the exchange of a few letters , the pressure of a hand through the garden gate , and that is all . 
Still , I have been guilty of a grave and irreparable fault I have disobeyed the one rule of my life frankness and I am cruelly punished for doing so . 
I did not tell all this to M. de Chalusse in fact , I dared not . 
I was ashamed of my cowardice from day to day I vowed that I would confess everything , and yet I procrastinated . 
I said to myself every night , 'It shall be done to morrow but when the morrow came I said , 'I will give myself another day just one more day . 
Indeed , my courage failed me when I thought of the count's aristocratic prejudices and besides , I knew how ambitious he was for my future . 
On the other hand , moreover , Pascal was always pleading 'Don't speak now . 
My circumstances are constantly improving . 
The day is not far off when I shall be able to offer you wealth and fame . 
When that day comes I will go to your guardian and ask him for your hand but in Heaven's name don't speak now . 
I understood Pascal's motives well enough . 
The count's immense fortune frightened him , and he feared that he would be accused of being a fortune hunter . 
So I waited , with that secret anguish which still haunts those who have been unhappy even when their present is peaceful , and their future seems bright . 
I kept my secret , saying to myself that such happiness was not meant for me , that it would soon take flight . 
It took flight all too soon . 
One morning I heard a carriage draw up outside our door , and the next moment the Count de Chalusse entered the sitting room . 
'Everything is ready to receive you at the Hotel de Chalusse , Marguerite , said he , 'come ! He ceremoniously offered me his arm , and I accompanied him . 
I could not even leave a message for Pascal , for I had never made a confidante of Madame Leon . 
Still , a faint hope sustained me . 
His efforts , so far as I could discover , had been confined to changing his servants . 
Our life in this grand house was the same as it had been at Cannes even more secluded , if that were possible . 
The count had aged considerably . 
It was evident that he was sinking beneath the burden of some ever present sorrow . 
But his affection showed itself in a strange manner . 
Sometimes his voice was so tender that my heart was touched . 
At others there was a look of hatred in his eyes which terrified me . 
Madame Leon declares that my jewels are worth more than twenty thousand francs . 
At times I wondered if his capricious affection and sternness were really intended for myself . 
It often seemed to me that I was only a shadow the phantom of some absent person , in his eyes . 
A sob or an oath would come from his lips , and then in an angry voice he would bid me leave the room . 
The magistrate did not raise his eyes from his talismanic ring it might have been supposed that it had fascinated him . 
Still , his expression denoted profound commiseration , and he shook his head thoughtfully . 
I say , MAY HAVE BEEN , because I am not certain of it . 
All my efforts to discover the truth were unavailing . 
M. de Chalusse seemed to take a malicious pleasure in destroying all my carefully arranged theories , and in upsetting the conjectures which he had encouraged himself only twenty four hours previously . 
Heaven only knows how anxiously I listened to his slightest word ! And it can be easily understood why I did so . 
My strange and compromising connection with him drove me nearly frantic . 
It was not strange that people's suspicions were aroused . 
The count had known my mother . 
But most frequently he reproached her for having unhesitatingly sacrificed me to insure her own safety . 
I was also certain that my mother was a married woman , for M. de Chalusse alluded to her husband more than once . 
He hated him with a terrible hatred . 
One evening , when he was more communicative than usual , he gave me to understand that the great danger he dreaded for me came either from my mother or her husband . 
He afterward did his best to counteract this impression but he did not succeed in convincing me that his previous assertion was untrue . 
The magistrate looked searchingly at Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Then those letters which we found just now in the escritoire are from your mother , mademoiselle ? he remarked . 
She had previously been questioned respecting these letters , and she had then made no reply . 
Now , she hesitated for a moment , and then quietly said Your opinion coincides with mine , monsieur . 
One morning at breakfast , about a month ago , the count informed me that he expected two guests to dinner that evening . 
This was such an unusual occurrence that I was struck speechless with astonishment . 
'It is extraordinary , I admit , he added , gayly 'but it is nevertheless true . 
M. de Fondege and the Marquis de Valorsay will dine here this evening . 
So , my dear Marguerite , look your prettiest in honor of our old friend . 
At six o'clock the two gentlemen arrived together . 
I was well acquainted with M. de Fondege the general , as he was commonly called . 
He was the count's only intimate friend , and often visited us . 
But I had never before seen the Marquis de Valorsay , nor had I ever heard his name until M. de Chalusse mentioned it that morning . 
I don't pretend to judge him . 
I will only say that as soon as I saw him , the dislike I felt for him bordered on aversion . 
My false position rendered his close scrutiny actually painful to me , and his attentions and compliments pleased me no better . 
At dinner he addressed his conversation exclusively to me , and I particularly remember a certain picture he drew of a model household , which positively disgusted me . 
In his opinion , a husband ought to content himself with being his wife's prime minister the slave of her slightest caprice . 
'With such ideas on her husband's part the marchioness will be very difficult to please if she is not contented with her lot , he added , glancing covertly at me . 
This exasperated me beyond endurance , and I dryly replied 'The mere thought of such a husband would drive me to the shelter of a convent . 
He seemed considerably disconcerted and I noticed that the general , I mean M. de Fondege , gave him a mischievous look . 
However , when the gentlemen had gone , M. de Chalusse scolded me severely . 
The scales fell from my eyes . 
I instantly understood that M. de Chalusse had selected the Marquis de Valorsay to be my husband , and thus the marquis had designedly explained his matrimonial programme for my benefit . 
It was a snare to catch the bird . 
I had disliked him at first , and now I despised him for it was impossible to misunderstand the shameless proposal concealed beneath his half jesting words . 
He offered me my liberty in exchange for my fortune . 
That is only a fair contract , one might say . 
No the events that followed only confirmed my suspicions . 
Three days later the marquis came again . 
His visit was to the count , and they held a long conference in this study . 
Having occasion to enter the room , after the marquis's departure , I noticed on the table a number of title deeds which he had probably brought for the count's inspection . 
On the following week there was another conference , and this time a lawyer was present . 
Any further doubts I might have felt were dispelled by Madame Leon , who was always well informed thanks to her habit of listening at the keyholes . 
'They are talking of marrying you to the Marquis de Valorsay I heard them , she remarked to me . 
However , the information did not terrify me . 
I had profited by the time allowed me for reflection , and I had decided upon the course I should pursue . 
Still I said nothing to Pascal of my mental struggle and final determination . 
I did not wish to bind him by the advice which he would certainly have given me . 
I had his troth , and that sufficed . 
It would have been great imprudence on my part to broach the subject myself , and so I waited calmly and resignedly , storing up all my energy for the decisive hour . 
I willingly confess that I am not a heroine of romance I do not look upon money with the contempt it deserves . 
He had become more communicative than usual on money matters , and took no pains to conceal the fact that he was engaged in raising the largest possible amount of ready cash . 
I am only doing the count justice when I say that my future was a subject of constant anxiety to him during the last few months of his life . 
Less than a fortnight after he had taken me from the asylum , he drew up a will , in which he adopted me and made me his sole legatee . 
But he afterward destroyed this document on the plea that it did not afford me sufficient security and a dozen others shared the same fate . 
For his mind was constantly occupied with the subject , and he seemed to have a presentiment that his death would be a sudden one . 
I am forced to admit that he seemed less anxious to endow me with his fortune than to frustrate the hopes of some persons I did not know . 
When he burned his last will in my presence , he remarked 'This document is useless they would contest it , and probably succeed in having it set aside . 
I have thought of a better way I have found an expedient which will provide for all emergencies . 
They covet my estates do they ! Very well , they shall have them . 
I will leave them my property , but they shall find it mortgaged to its full value . 
Unfortunate man ! all his plans have failed . 
He dreamed of a brilliant destiny for me a proud name , and the rank of a marchioness and he has not even succeeded in protecting me from the most shameful insults . 
I have been accused of theft before his body was even cold . 
He wished to make me rich , frightfully rich , and he has not left me enough to buy my bread literally , not enough to buy bread . 
Ah ! M. de Chalusse , it would have been far better for me if you had left me in the foundling asylum to have earned my own bread . 
And yet , I freely forgive you . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite reflected for a moment , questioning her memory to ascertain if she had told everything if she had forgotten any particulars of importance . 
You know what even the friend , who is my only hope , does not know as yet . 
And now , when I tell him what I really am , will he think me unworthy of him ? The magistrate sprang to his feet , impelled by an irresistible force . 
Two big tears , the first he had shed for years , trembled on his eyelashes , and coursed down his furrowed cheeks . 
But the magistrate's words had reassured her . 
The clock on the mantel shelf struck half past four . 
The magistrate and Mademoiselle Marguerite could hear stealthy footsteps in the hall , and a rustling near the door . 
The servants were prowling round about the study , wondering what was the reason of this prolonged conference . 
I must see how the clerk is progressing with the inventory . 
Excuse me if I absent myself for a moment I will soon return . 
And so saying he rose and left the room . 
But it was only a pretext . 
He really wished to conceal his emotion and regain his composure , for he had been deeply affected by the young girl's narrative . 
Such were the thoughts that flitted through the magistrate's mind as he listened to his clerk's report . 
Nor was this all for having solicited Mademoiselle Marguerite's confidence , he must now advise her . 
And this was a matter of some difficulty . 
Let us now discuss the situation calmly , he began . 
I shall convince you that your prospects are not so frightful as you imagine . 
But before speaking of the future , will you allow me to refer to the past ? The girl bowed her consent . 
Let us first of all consider the subject of the missing millions . 
They were certainly in the escritoire when M. de Chalusse replaced the vial but now they are not to be found , so that the count must have taken them away with him . 
That thought occurred to me also . 
Did the treasure form a large package ? Yes , it was large but it could have been easily concealed under the cloak which M. de Chalusse wore . 
Very good ! What was the time when he left the house ? About five o'clock . 
When was he brought back ? At about half past six . 
Where did the cabman pick him up ? Near the church of Notre Dame de Lorette , so he told me . 
Do you know the driver's number ? Casimir asked him for it , I believe . 
Had any one inquired the reason of this semi official examination , the magistrate would have replied that Mademoiselle Marguerite's interests alone influenced him in the course he was taking . 
This was quite true and yet , without being altogether conscious of the fact , he was also impelled by another motive . 
Oh ! stolen , she faltered . 
Yes , my child anything is possible . 
We must consider the situation in every possible light . 
Where was M. de Chalusse going ? To the house of a gentleman who would , he thought , be able to furnish the address given in the letter he had torn up . 
What was this gentleman's name ? Fortunat . 
It is true that I helped the count in collecting the fragments , but I did not read what was written on them . 
That is of little account . 
The main thing is to ascertain who wrote the letter . 
You told me that it could only have come from the sister who disappeared thirty years ago , or else from your mother . 
That was , and still is , my opinion . 
The magistrate toyed with his ring and a smile of satisfaction stole over his face . 
Very well ! he exclaimed , in less than five minutes I shall be able to tell you whether the letter was from your mother or not . 
My method is perfectly simple . 
I have only to compare the handwriting with that of the letters found in the escritoire . 
Tell the count's valet to look for them . 
The girl rang but M. Casimir , who was supposed to be engaged in making preparations for the funeral , was not in the house . 
However , another servant and Madame Leon offered their services , and certainly displayed the most laudable zeal , but their search was fruitless the fragments of the letter could not be found . 
How unfortunate ! muttered the magistrate , as he watched them turn the pockets of the count's clothes inside out . 
What a fatality ! That letter would probably have solved the mystery . 
Compelled to submit to this disappointment , he returned to the study but he was evidently discouraged . 
By carefully studying the last words which M. de Chalusse had written and spoken he might arrive at the intention which had dictated them . 
Experience had wonderfully sharpened his penetration , and perhaps he might discover a hidden meaning which would throw light upon all this doubt and uncertainty . 
But on combining the written and the spoken words the only result obtained was as follows My entire fortune give friends against Marguerite despoiled your mother take care . 
These twelve incoherent words revealed the count's absorbing and poignant anxiety concerning his fortune and Marguerite's future , and also the fear and aversion with which Marguerite's mother inspired him . 
But that was all the sense was not precise enough for any practical purpose . 
Certainly the word give needed no explanation . 
It was plain that the count had endeavored to write , I give my entire fortune . 
The meaning of the word despoiled was also clear . 
Take care also explained itself . 
But there were two words which seemed absolutely incomprehensible to the magistrate , and which he vainly strove to connect with the others in an intelligible manner . 
These were the words friends and against , and they were the most legibly written of all . 
For the thirtieth time the magistrate was repeating them in an undertone , when a rap came at the door , and almost immediately Madame Leon entered the room . 
What is it ? inquired Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Laying a package of letters , addressed to M. de Chalusse , on the desk , the housekeeper replied These have just come by the post for the poor count . 
Heaven rest his soul ! And then handing a newspaper to Mademoiselle Marguerite , she added , in an unctuous tone And some one left this paper for mademoiselle at the same time . 
This paper for me ? You must be mistaken . 
I was in the concierge's lodge when the messenger brought it and he said it was for Mademoiselle Marguerite , from one of her friends . 
And with these words she made one of her very best courtesies , and withdrew . 
The girl had taken the newspaper , and now , with an air of astonishment and apprehension , she slowly unfolded it . 
What first attracted her attention was a paragraph on the first page marked round with red chalk . 
The paper had evidently been sent in order that she might read this particular passage , and accordingly she began to peruse it . 
He had written d'Argeles , Pascal Ferailleur , Ferdinand de Coralth , Rochecote . 
And yet , in spite of these precautions , the girl did not at first seize the full meaning of the article and she was obliged to read it over again . 
Her features expressed such terrible suffering that the magistrate sprang from his chair with a bound . 
What has happened ? he eagerly asked . 
He approached her , and led her gently to an arm chair , upon which she sank , half fainting . 
Poor child ! he murmured . 
The man you had chosen the man whom you would have sacrificed everything for is Pascal Ferailleur , is he not ? Yes , it is he . 
He is an advocate ? As I have already told you , monsieur . 
Does he live in the Rue d'Ulm ? Yes . 
The magistrate shook his head sadly . 
It is the same , said he . 
I also know him , my poor child and I loved and honored him . 
Yesterday I should have told you that he was worthy of you . 
But now , see what depths love of play has brought him to . 
He is a thief ! Mademoiselle Marguerite's weakness vanished . 
She sprang from her chair , and indignantly faced the magistrate . 
She trembled nervously from head to foot , and there was a gleam of insanity in her big black eyes . 
If she doesn't weep , she is lost , thought the magistrate . 
And , instead of encouraging her to hope , he deemed it best to try and destroy what he considered a dangerous illusion . 
Alas ! my poor child , he said sadly , you must not deceive yourself . 
The newspapers are often hasty in their judgment but an article like that is only published when proof of its truth is furnished by witnesses of unimpeachable veracity . 
The magistrate persevered , however , and added So , after the article you have just read , no one can entertain the shadow of a doubt . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite hastily interrupted him . 
But I have not doubted him for a second ! she exclaimed . 
Doubt Pascal ! I doubt Pascal ! I would sooner doubt myself . 
Her tone and manner betokened complete and unwavering confidence and her faith imparted an almost sublime expression to her face . 
If I was overcome , monsieur , she continued , it was only because I was appalled by the audacity of the accusation . 
How was it possible to make Pascal even SEEM to be guilty of a dishonorable act ? This is beyond my powers of comprehension . 
I am only certain of one thing that he is innocent . 
This is not a parallel case , my child . 
It IS a parallel case , monsieur . 
In his opinion , Pascal Ferailleur was guilty . 
Still it was useless to argue with the girl , for he felt that he should not be able to convince her . 
However , he determined , if possible , to ascertain her plans in order to oppose them , if they seemed to him at all dangerous . 
Perhaps you are right , my child , he conceded , still , this unfortunate affair must change all your arrangements . 
Rather , it modifies them . 
Surprised by her calmness , he looked at her inquiringly . 
I am still resolved to go to him but as an humble suppliant . 
And I shall say to him , 'You are suffering , but no sorrow is intolerable when there are two to bear the burden and so , here I am . 
I am yours yours unconditionally . 
Fortunately , my dear young lady , your devotion will no doubt be useless , he said at last . 
And why ? Because M. Ferailleur owes it to you , and , what is more , he owes it to himself , not to accept such a sacrifice . 
Failing to understand his meaning , she looked at him inquiringly . 
You will forgive me , I trust , he continued , if I warn you to prepare for a disappointment . 
Innocent or guilty , M. Ferailleur is disgraced . 
Unless something little short of a miracle comes to help him , his career is ended . 
This is one of those charges one of those slanders , if you prefer that term , which a man can never shake off . 
So how can you hope that he will consent to link your destiny to his ? She had not thought of this objection , and it seemed to her a terrible one . 
Tears came to her dark eyes , and in a despondent voice she murmured God grant that he will not evince such cruel generosity . 
The only great and true misfortune that could strike me now would be to have him repel me . 
The brilliant career he dreamed of is ended , you say . 
Ah , well ! I will console him , and though we are unfortunate , we may yet be happy . 
Our enemies are triumphant so be it we should only tarnish our honor by stooping to contend against such villainy . 
But in some new land , in America , perhaps , we shall be able to find some quiet spot where we can begin a new and better career . 
It was almost impossible to believe that it was Mademoiselle Marguerite , usually so haughtily reserved , who was now speaking with such passionate vehemence . 
And to whom was she talking in this fashion ? To a stranger , whom she saw for the first time . 
But she was urged on by circumstances , the influence of which was stronger than her own will . 
They had led her to reveal her dearest and most sacred feelings and to display her real nature free from any kind of disguise . 
However , the magistrate concealed the emotion and sympathy which filled his heart and refused to admit that the girl's hopes were likely to be realized . 
And if M. Ferailleur refused to accept your sacrifice ? he asked . 
It is not a sacrifice , monsieur . 
No matter but supposing he refused it , what should you do ? What should I do ? she muttered . 
Still I should have no difficulty in earning a livelihood . 
I have been told that I have a remarkable voice . 
I might , perhaps , go upon the stage . 
The magistrate sprang from his arm chair . 
I suspect that theatrical life is an abominable life for a woman , she said , gravely but I know that there are many noble and chaste women who have adopted the profession . 
That is enough for me . 
My pride is a sufficient protection . 
It preserved me as an apprentice it would preserve me as an actress . 
I might be slandered but that is not an irremediable misfortune . 
I despise the world too much to be troubled by its opinion so long as I have the approval of my own conscience . 
He was closely followed by another servant , who said Mademoiselle , the Marquis de Valorsay is below , and wishes to know if mademoiselle will grant him the honor of an interview . 
On hearing M. de Valorsay's name , Mademoiselle Marguerite and the magistrate exchanged glances full of wondering conjecture . 
The girl was undecided what course to pursue but the magistrate put an end to her perplexity . 
Ask the marquis to come up , he said to the servant . 
You must know what he wishes and what hope brings him here . 
Calm yourself , and submit to necessity . 
In a sort of bewilderment , the girl hastily arranged her disordered dress , and caught up her wavy hair which had fallen over her shoulders . 
Hush ! here he comes ! The Marquis de Valorsay was indeed upon the threshold , and a moment later he entered the room . 
As a rule , his expression of face merely denoted supreme contentment with himself and indifference as to others , but now , strange to say , he looked grave and almost solemn . 
He bowed to Mademoiselle Marguerite with every mark of profound respect , and without seeming to notice the magistrate's presence . 
You will excuse me , I trust , mademoiselle , said he , in having insisted upon seeing you , so that I might express my deep sympathy . 
I have just heard of the terrible misfortune which has befallen you the sudden death of your father . 
She drew back as if she were terrified , and repeated My father ! The marquis did not evince the slightest surprise . 
To you ? interrupted the magistrate , who was unable to restrain himself any longer . 
But they have told me one thing which I cannot believe . 
Can this be possible ? It is the exact truth , monsieur , replied Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
I am reduced to the necessity of working for my daily bread . 
But her expectations were not realized . 
Then I may venture to speak , he exclaimed , with unconcealed satisfaction , I will speak , rnademoiselle , if you will deign to allow me . 
She looked at him with anxious curiosity , wondering what was to come . 
Speak , monsieur , she faltered . 
I will obey you , mademoiselle , he said , bowing again . 
But first , allow me to tell you how great my hopes have been . 
M. de Chalusse's death is an irreparable misfortune for me as for yourself . 
He had allowed me , mademoiselle , to aspire to the honor of becoming a suitor for your hand . 
But between him and me everything had been arranged in principle , and he was to give a dowry of three millions of francs to Mademoiselle Marguerite de Chalusse , his daughter . 
I am no longer Mademoiselle de Chalusse , Monsieur le Marquis , and I am no longer the possessor of a fortune . 
He felt the sharp sting of this retort , for the blood rose to his cheeks , still he did not lose his composure . 
Will you be my wife ? The poor girl was obliged to exercise all her powers of self control to restrain an exclamation of dismay . 
The fact that my suit was approved of by M. de Chalusse is the best recommendation I can offer you . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was still powerless to reply . 
Her presence of mind had entirely deserted her , and her tongue seemed to cleave to her palate . 
I am aware that I have so far not been fortunate enough to please you , mademoiselle , continued the marquis . 
But you will forgive me , I trust . 
My ideas have entirely changed since I have learned to understand and appreciate your vigorous intellect and nobility of soul . 
His words were disjointed as if emotion choked his utterance . 
At times , it seemed as if he could scarcely command his feelings and then his voice became so faint and trembling that it was scarcely intelligible . 
However , by allowing him to continue , by listening to what he said , Mademoiselle Marguerite was encouraging him , even more virtually binding herself . 
Pray , mademoiselle , pray do not reply to day . 
Grant me a little time to overcome your prejudices . 
She shook her head , and in a firmer voice , replied I have no prejudices but for some time past already , my future has been decided , irrevocably decided . 
He seemed thunderstruck , and his manner apparently indicated that the possibility of a repulse had never entered his mind . 
Do not deprive me of all hope , he murmured . 
She made no answer , and understanding her silence , he was about to retire when the door suddenly opened and a servant announced Monsieur de Fondege . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite touched the magistrate on the shoulder to attract his attention . 
This gentleman is M. de Chalusse's friend whom I sent for this morning . 
At the same moment a man who looked some sixty years of age entered the room . 
However , the appellation had clung to him . 
The nickname had been changed to a title , and now M. de Fondege was known as the General everywhere . 
He was invited and announced as the General . 
The nickname had had a decisive influence on his life . 
He had endeavored to show himself worthy of it , and the manners he had at first assumed , eventually became natural ones . 
He swore the most tremendous oaths in a deep bass voice , and whenever he talked his arms revolved like the sails of a windmill . 
He was not considered very shrewd , and he pretended to have an intense dislike for business matters . 
No one knew anything precise about his fortune , but he had a great many friends who invited him to dinner , and they all declared that he was in very comfortable circumstances . 
On entering the study this worthy man did not pay the slightest attention to the Marquis de Valorsay , although they were intimate friends . 
Courage , my dear , he growled courage . 
Look at me ! So saying he stepped back , and it was really amusing to see the extraordinary effort he made to combine a soldier's stoicism with a friend's sorrow . 
You must wonder at my delay , my dear , he resumed , but it was not my fault . 
I was at Madame de Rochecote's when I was informed that your messenger was at home waiting for me . 
I returned , and heard the frightful news . 
A friend of thirty years' standing ! A thousand thunderclaps ! I acted as his second when he fought his first duel . 
Poor Chalusse ! A man as sturdy as an oak , and who ought to have outlived us all . 
But it is always so the best soldiers always file by first at dress parade . 
Fortunately , poor Chalusse was a prudent man , continued M. de Fondege . 
He loved you devotedly , my dear , as his testamentary provisions must have shown you . 
His provisions ? Yes , most certainly . 
Surely you don't mean to try and conceal anything from one who knows all . 
Ah ! you will be one of the greatest catches in Europe , and you will have plenty of suitors . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite sadly shook her head . 
You are mistaken , General the count left no will , and has made no provision whatever for me . 
M. de Fondege trembled , turned a trifle pale , and in a faltering voice , exclaimed What ! You tell me that ? Chalusse ! A thousand thunderclaps ! It isn't possible . 
The count was stricken with apoplexy in a cab . 
He went out about five o'clock , on foot , and a little before seven he was brought home unconscious . 
Where he had been we don't know . 
You don't know ? you don't know ? Alas ! no and he was only able to utter a few incoherent words before he died . 
Thereupon the poor girl began a brief account of what had taken place during the last four and twenty hours . 
Had she been less absorbed in her narrative she would have noticed that the General was not listening to her . 
He was sitting at the count's desk and was toying with the letters which Madame Leon had brought into the room a short time previously . 
One of them especially seemed to attract his attention , to exercise a sort of fascination over him as it were . 
He looked at it with hungry eyes , and whenever he touched it , his hand trembled , or involuntarily clinched . 
His face , moreover , had become livid his eyes twitched nervously he seemed to have a difficulty in breathing , and big drops of perspiration trickled down his forehead . 
If the magistrate were able to see the General's face , he must certainly have been of opinion that a terrible conflict was raging in his mind . 
The struggle lasted indeed for fully five minutes , and then suddenly , certain that no one saw him , he caught up the letter in question and slipped it into his pocket . 
Poor Marguerite was now finishing her story You see , monsieur , that , far from being an heiress , as you suppose , I am homeless and penniless , she said . 
The General had risen from his chair , and was striding up and down the room with every token of intense agitation . 
It's true , he said apparently unconscious of his words . 
She's ruined lost the misfortune is complete ! Then , suddenly pausing with folded arms in front of Mademoiselle Marguerite What are you going to do ? he asked . 
God will not forsake me , General , she replied . 
He turned on his heel and resumed his promenade , wildly gesticulating and indulging in a furious monologue which was certainly not very easy to follow . 
Frightful ! terrible ! he growled . 
General ? You are acquainted with my son , Gustave Fondege , are you not ? I think I have heard you speak of him to M. de Chalusse several times . 
The General tugged furiously at his mustaches as was his wont whenever he was perplexed or embarrassed . 
My son , he resumed , is twenty seven . 
He's now a lieutenant of hussars , and will soon be promoted to the rank of captain . 
He's a handsome fellow , sure to make his way in the world , for he's not wanting in spirit . 
There was a dangerous gleam of anger in Mademoiselle Marguerite's eyes , as she coldly replied I am honored by your request , monsieur but my future is already decided . 
Some seconds elapsed before M. de Fondege could recover his powers of speech . 
This is a piece of foolishness , he faltered , at last with singular agitation . 
Let me hope that you will reconsider the matter . 
And if Gustave doesn't please you , we will find some one better . 
But under no circumstances will Chalusse's old comrade ever desert you . 
I shall send Madame de Fondege to see you this evening . 
She's a good woman and you will understand each other . 
So saying he advanced toward the door leading into the death room , but on reaching the threshold , he cried in sudden terror Oh ! no , no , I could not . 
And with these words he withdrew or rather he fled from the room down the stairs . 
As long as the General had been there , the magistrate had given no sign of life . 
I understood the insult their apparent generosity conceals . 
They had questioned the servants , and had ascertained that two millions were missing . 
Ah , the scoundrels ! They believe that I have stolen those millions and they came to ask me to share the ill gotten wealth with them . 
What an insult ! and to think that I am powerless to avenge it ! Ah ! the servants' suspicions were nothing in comparison with this . 
At least , they did not ask for a share of the booty as the price of their silence ! The magistrate shook his head as if this explanation scarcely satisfied him . 
There is something else , there is certainly something else , he repeated . 
But the doors were still open , so he closed them carefully , and then returned to the girl he was so desirous of advising . 
I wish to tell you , he said , that you have mistaken the motives which induced these gentlemen to ask for your hand in marriage . 
Do you believe , then , that you have fathomed them ? I could almost swear that I had . 
That's true , she said , that's indeed true . 
Now I recollect the difference . 
And this is my explanation of it , resumed the magistrate . 
Who can prove that M. de Valorsay does not possess this acknowledgment ? In fact , he must possess it . 
Whereupon he consulted his legal adviser who assured him that it would be the best course he could pursue and so he came here . 
You repulsed him , but he will soon make another assault , you may rest assured of that . 
And some day or other he will come to you and say , 'Whether we marry or not , let us divide . 
The magistrate's words seemed to dispel the mist which had hitherto hidden the truth from view . 
Yes , she exclaimed , yes , you are right , monsieur . 
He was silent for a moment , and then he resumed I understand M. de Fondege's motive less clearly but still I have some clue . 
He had not questioned the servants . 
That is evident from the fact that on his arrival here he believed you to be the sole legatee . 
He was also aware that M. de Chalusse had taken certain precautions we are ignorant of , but which he is no doubt fully acquainted with . 
Now , draw your own conclusions . 
The wretched girl looked questioningly at the magistrate as if she hesitated to trust the thoughts which his words had awakened in her mind . 
You have the whole night before you . 
We will talk it over again to morrow , and if I can be of service to you in any way , I shall be only too glad . 
But , monsieur Oh to morrow , to morrow I must go to dinner now besides , my clerk must be getting terribly impatient . 
The clerk was , indeed , out of temper . 
Not that he had finished taking an inventory of the appurtenances of this immense house , but because he considered that he had done quite enough work for one day . 
And yet his discontent was sensibly diminished when he calculated the amount he would receive for his pains . 
During the nine years he had held this office he had never made such an extensive inventory before . 
I suspect she's crying her eyes out . 
But the clerk was mistaken . 
Then she went to kneel in the count's room , where four members of the parochial clergy were reciting the prayers for the dead . 
She was so exhausted with fatigue that she could scarcely speak , and her eyelids were heavy with sleep . 
But she had another task to fulfil , a task which she deemed a sacred duty . 
She sent a servant for a cab , threw a shawl over her shoulders , and left the house accompanied by Madame Leon . 
Marguerite was obliged to ring five or six times before the concierge made his appearance . 
I wish to see Monsieur Ferailleur , she quietly said . 
The man glanced at her scornfully , and then replied He no longer lives here . 
The landlord doesn't want any thieves in his house . 
He's sold his rubbish and started for America , with his old witch of a mother . 
So saying he closed the door again , and Marguerite was so overwhelmed by this last and unexpected misfortune , that she could hardly stagger back to the vehicle . 
Gone ! she murmured gone ! without a thought of me ! Or does he believe me to be like all the rest ? But I will find him again . 
That man Fortunat , who ascertained addresses for M. de Chalusse , will find Pascal for me . 
Few people have any idea of the great number of estates which , in default of heirs to claim them , annually revert to the government . 
The treasury derives large sums from this source every year . 
And this is easily explained , for nowadays family ties are becoming less and less binding . 
Brothers cease to meet their children no longer know each other and the members of the second generation are as perfect strangers as though they were not united by a bond of consanguinity . 
The young man whom love of adventure lures to a far off country , and the young girl who marries against her parents' wishes , soon cease to exist for their relatives . 
No one even inquires what has become of them . 
Those who remain at home are afraid to ask whether they are prosperous or unfortunate , lest they should be called upon to assist the wanderers . 
Forgotten themselves , the adventurers in their turn soon forget . 
If fortune smiles upon them , they are careful not to inform their relatives . 
Poor they have been cast off wealthy they themselves deny their kindred . 
Having become rich unaided , they find an egotistical satisfaction in spending their money alone in accordance with their own fancies . 
An inventory is taken , and after a few formalities , as no heirs present themselves , the court declares the inheritance to be in abeyance , and appoints a trustee . 
This trustee's duties are very simple . 
If I only had a twentieth part of the money that is lost in this way , my fortune would be made , exclaimed a shrewd man , some thirty years ago . 
The person who spoke was Antoine Vaudore . 
Thus Vaudore was the first man who made heir hunting a profession . 
As will be generally admitted , it is not a profession that can be successfully followed by a craven . 
It requires the exercise of unusual shrewdness , untiring activity , extraordinary energy and courage , as well as great tact and varied knowledge . 
It is easier to decry the profession than to exercise it . 
If he finds that the inheritance is a valuable one , he begins operations without delay . 
He must first ascertain the deceased's full name and age . 
However , when he has armed himself with the more indispensable facts , our agent opens the campaign with extreme prudence , for it would be ruinous to awake suspicion . 
I never knew HIM , but I am acquainted with one of his brothers with one of his uncles or with one of his nephews . 
Very often years of constant research , a large outlay of money , and costly and skilful advertising in all the European journals , are necessary before this result is reached . 
And it is only when it has been attained that the agent can take time to breathe . 
But now the chances are greatly in his favor . 
The portion of his task which depended on chance alone is concluded . 
The rest is a matter of skill , tact , and shrewdness . 
The detective must give place to the crafty lawyer . 
There must be an agreement in writing clearly stating what proportion a tenth , a third , or a half the agent will be entitled to . 
The negotiation is a very delicate and difficult one , requiring prodigious presence of mind , and an amount of duplicity which would make the most astute diplomatist turn pale with envy . 
Occasionally , the heir suspects the truth , sneers at the proposition , and hurries off to claim the whole of the inheritance that belongs to him . 
The agent may then bid his hopes farewell . 
He has worked and spent money for nothing . 
However , such a misfortune is of rare occurrence . 
On hearing of the unexpected good fortune that has befallen him , the heir is generally unsuspicious , and willingly promises to pay the amount demanded of him . 
A contract is drawn up and signed and then , but only then , does the agent take his client into his confidence . 
You are the relative of such a person , are you not ? Yes . 
He is dead , and you are his heir . 
Thank Providence , and make haste to claim your money . 
As a rule , the heir loyally fulfils his obligation . 
But sometimes it happens that , when he has obtained undisputed possession of the property , he declares that he has been swindled , and refuses to fulfil his part of the contract . 
Then the case must go to the courts . 
It is true , however , that the judgment of the tribunals generally recalls the refractory client to a sense of gratitude and humility . 
Now our friend M. Isidore Fortunat was a hunter of missing heirs . 
Undoubtedly he often engaged in other business which was a trifle less respectable but heir hunting was one of the best and most substantial sources of his income . 
So we can readily understand why he so quickly left off lamenting that forty thousand francs lent to the Marquis de Valorsay . 
And he had some reason to hope that he would be able to do so . 
Still , M. Isidore Fortunat slept but little after his stormy interview with the Marquis de Valorsay . 
By way of consolation , he assured himself that he would not merely regain the sum , but triple it and yet this encouragement did not entirely restore his peace of mind . 
The gain was only a possibility , and the loss was a certainty . 
His plan was a simple one , but its execution was fraught with difficulties . 
I must discover M. de Chalusse's sister , if she is still living I must discover her children , if she is dead , he said to himself . 
The girl of the lower classes is armed against misfortune , and has been trained for the conflict . 
She can measure and calculate the force of her fall , and regulate and control it to a certain extent . 
They have never known privation and hardship , and are , therefore , defenceless . 
And for the very reason that they have been hurled from a great height , they often fall down into the lowest depths of infamy . 
If morning would only come , sighed M. Isidore Fortunat , as he tossed restlessly to and fro . 
Your clerks have come , she exclaimed , shaking him vigorously and two clients are waiting for you in the reception room . 
He sprang up , hastily dressed himself , and went into his office . 
It cost him no little effort to receive his visitors that morning but it would have been folly to neglect all his other business for the uncertain Chalusse affair . 
The first client who entered was a man still young , of common , even vulgar appearance . 
Not being acquainted with M. Fortunat , he deemed it proper to introduce himself without delay . 
My name is Leplaintre , and I am a coal merchant , said he . 
I was recommended to call on you by my friend Bouscat , who was formerly in the wine trade . 
Pray be seated , was his reply . 
I remember your friend very well . 
If I am not mistaken I gave him some advice with reference to his third failure . 
Precisely and it is because I find myself in the same fix as Bouscat that I have called on you . 
Business is very bad , and I have notes to a large amount overdue , so that You will be obliged to go into bankruptcy . 
Alas ! I fear so . 
M. Fortunat already knew what his client desired , but it was against his principles to meet these propositions more than half way . 
Will you state your case ? said he . 
It was hard to confess the truth but the effort had to be made . 
This is my case , he replied , at last . 
Among my creditors I have several enemies , who will refuse me a release . 
They would like to deprive me of everything I possess . 
And in that case , what would become of me ? Is it right that I should be compelled to starve ? It is a bad outlook . 
His feelings of integrity would not have been alarmed by a periphrasis , but this plain speaking shocked him . 
Oh , monsieur ! he protested , I would rather blow my brains out than defraud my creditors of a single penny that was rightfully theirs . 
What I am doing is for their interest , you understand . 
I shall begin business again under my wife's name and if I succeed , they shall be paid yes , monsieur , every sou , with interest . 
I should suggest to you the same expedient as I suggested to your friend Bouscat . 
But you must gather a little ready money together before going into bankruptcy . 
I can do that by secretly disposing of a part of my stock , so In that case , you are saved . 
Sell it and put the money beyond your creditors' reach . 
The worthy merchant scratched his ear in evident perplexity . 
Excuse me , said he . 
I had thought of this plan but it seemed to me dishonorable and also very dangerous . 
How could I explain this decrease in my stock ? My creditors hate me . 
If they suspected anything , they would accuse me of fraud , and perhaps throw me into prison and then M. Fortunat shrugged his shoulders . 
When I give advice , he roughly replied , I furnish the means of following it without danger . 
Evidently but , unfortunately , I do not possess any such securities . 
The coal merchant opened his eyes in astonishment . 
Excuse me , he muttered , I don't exactly understand you . 
Let us suppose , my dear sir , resumed M. Fortunat , that you had a drawer full of these securities But the other did not allow him to finish . 
I see , he exclaimed I see I can sell my stock , and put the proceeds in my pocket with perfect safety . 
There is enough to represent my capital a thousand times over . 
I should like my creditors to have a variety . 
Thereupon M. Fortunat counted out a pile of these worthless securities as carefully as if he had been handling bank notes and his client at the same time drew out his pocketbook . 
How much do I owe you ? he inquired . 
The honest merchant bounded from his chair . 
Three thousand francs ! he repeated . 
That trash is not worth a louis . 
I would not even give five francs for it , rejoined M. Fortunat , coldly but it is true that I don't desire to purchase these shares in my creditors' interest . 
With you it is quite a different matter this trash , as you very justly call it , will save you at least a hundred thousand francs . 
I ask only three per cent . 
, which is certainly not dear . 
Still , you know , I don't force any one to purchase them . 
And , in a terribly significant tone , he added You can undoubtedly buy similar securities on better terms but take care you don't arouse your creditors' suspicions by applying elsewhere . 
He would betray me , the scoundrel ! thought the merchant . 
The coal merchant smiled the ghastly smile of a man who sees no way of escape from imposition , and has , therefore , resolved to submit with the best grace possible . 
But M. Fortunat's gravity did not relax . 
He gave what he had promised neither more nor less in exchange for the bank notes , and even gravely exclaimed See if the amount is correct . 
The client who followed the coal merchant proved to be a simple creature , who had called to ask for some advice respecting a slight difficulty between himself and his landlord . 
How many debtors were visited yesterday ? inquired M. Fortunat . 
Two hundred and thirty seven . 
What was the amount collected ? Eighty nine francs . 
M. Isidore Fortunat's grimace was expressive of satisfaction . 
Not bad , said he , not at all bad . 
Then a singular performance began . 
Such a one , said the agent , and such a one and such Whereupon the cashier replied Has paid two francs was not at home paid twenty sous would not pay anything . 
How did it happen that M. Fortunat had so many debtors ? This question can be easily answered . 
It was not because he was rigorous in his demands he conquered by patience , gentleness , and politeness , but also by unwearying perseverance and tenacity . 
When he decided that a debtor was to pay him a certain sum , it was paid . 
He never relaxed in his efforts . 
At last even the most determined succumbed to escape this frightful persecution , they , somehow or other , found the money to satisfy M. Fortunat's claim . 
Besides Victor Chupin , he had five other agents whose business it was to visit these poor wretches . 
A list was assigned to each man every morning and when evening came , he made his report to the cashier , who in turn reported to his employer . 
This branch of industry added considerably to the profits of M. Fortunat's other business , and was the third and last string to his bow . 
The report proceeded as usual , but it was quite evident that M. Fortunat's thoughts were elsewhere . 
He had done this more than an hour before and Victor Chupin , who was usually so prompt , had not yet made his appearance . 
At last , however , he returned , whereupon M. Fortunat dismissed the cashier , and addressed his messenger Well ? he asked . 
He is no longer living . 
They think he died without a will , and that the pretty young lady will be turned out of the house . 
M. Fortunat's opinion coincided with Chupin's . 
Very well , said he . 
Only you were a long time on the road , Victor . 
That's true , m'sieur but I had a little matter of my own to attend to a matter of a hundred francs , if you please . 
M. Fortunat knit his brows angrily . 
It's only right to attend to business , said he but you think too much of money , Victor altogether too much . 
The young man proudly lifted his head , and with an air of importance , replied I have so many responsibilities Responsibilities ! you ? Yes , indeed , m'sieur . 
Besides , I'm like other men , I'm anxious to be rich , and enjoy myself . 
I should like to ride in my carriage like other people do . 
Monsieur ! she exclaimed , in the same tone as if she would have called Fire ! here is Monsieur de Valorsay . 
M. Fortunat sprang up and turned extremely pale . 
What to the devil brings him here ? he anxiously stammered . 
M. de Valorsay seemed to be very angry , and it looked as if he meant to give vent to his passion . 
I heard of it first scarcely an hour ago through a letter from Madame Leon . 
He was a quiet man , opposed to violence of any kind and it seemed to him that M. de Valorsay was twisting and turning his cane in a most ominous manner . 
I must confess , Monsieur le Marquis , he at last replied , that I had not the courage to tell you of the dreadful misfortune which had befallen us . 
If you lose the hope of several millions , I also lose the amount I advanced to you , forty thousand francs my entire fortune . 
And yet , you see that I don't complain . 
Do as I do confess that the game is lost . 
The marquis was listening with an air of suppressed wrath his face was crimson , there was a dark frown on his brow , and his hands were clinched . 
He was apparently furious with passion , but in reality he was perfectly self possessed . 
The best proof that can be given of his coolness is that he was carefully studying M. Fortunat's face , and trying to discover the agent's real intentions under his meaningless words . 
He had expected to find his dear extortioner exasperated by his loss , cursing and swearing , and demanding his money but not at all . 
He found him more gentle and calm , colder and more reserved than ever brimful of resignation indeed , and preaching submission to the inevitable . 
What can this mean ? he thought , with an anxious heart . 
What mischief is the scoundrel plotting now ? I'd wager a thousand to one that he's forging some thunderbolt to crush me . 
And , in a haughty tone , he said aloud In a word , you desert me . 
I shouldn't like to deprive you of the courage you so much need , but , honestly , it would be folly to struggle against destiny . 
By tact and shrewdness , you might yet save something from your creditors . 
And if you need my services , here I am . 
Go to Nice , and give me a power of attorney to act for you . 
From the debris of your fortune , I will undertake to guarantee you a competence which would satisfy many an ambitious man . 
You would rid yourself of me and recover your forty thousand francs at the same time . 
M. Fortunat realized that his client understood him but what did it matter ? I assure you he began . 
But the marquis silenced him with a contemptuous gesture . 
Let us stop this nonsense , said he . 
We understand each other better than that . 
And still refusing to listen to the agent , he continued If I have come to you , it is only because the case is not so desperate as you suppose . 
I still hold some valuable cards which you are ignorant of . 
In your opinion , and every one else's , Mademoiselle Marguerite is ruined . 
But I know that she is still worth three millions , at the very least . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite ? Yes , Monsieur Twenty per Cent . 
Let her become my wife , and the very next day I will place her in possession of an income of a hundred and fifty thousand francs . 
But she must marry me first and this scornful maiden will not grant me her hand unless I can convince her of my love and disinterestedness . 
But your rival ? M. de Valorsay gave a nervous start , but quickly controlled himself . 
Read this day's Figaro , and you will be edified . 
I have no rival now . 
If I can only conceal my financial embarrassment a little longer , she is mine . 
A friendless and homeless girl cannot defend herself long in Paris especially when she has an adviser like Madame Leon . 
Oh ! I shall win her ! I shall have her ! she is a necessity to me . 
Now you can judge if it would be wise on your part to deprive me of your assistance . 
Would you like to know what I want ? Simply this the means to sustain me two or three months longer some thirty thousand francs . 
But no more subterfuges , if you please . 
Let your answer be plain yes or no . 
Without a second's hesitation , M. Fortunat replied , No. The flush on the marquis's face deepened , and his voice became a trifle harsher but that was all . 
Confess , then , that you have resolved to ruin me , he said . 
You refuse before you have heard me to the end . 
Wait , at least , until I have told you my plans , and shown you the solid foundation which my hopes rest upon . 
But M. Fortunat had resolved to listen to nothing . 
He wished for no explanations , so distrustful was he of himself so much did he fear that his adventurous nature would urge him to incur further risk . 
He was positively afraid of the Marquis de Valorsay's eloquence besides , he knew well enough that the person who consents to listen is at least half convinced . 
Tell me nothing , monsieur , he hastily answered it would be useless . 
If I had given you ten thousand francs last night , I should have been compelled to borrow them of M. Prosper Bertomy . 
And even if I had the money , I should still say Impossible . 
Every man has his system his theory , you know . 
Mine is , never to run after my money . 
With me , whatever I may lose , I regard it as finally lost I think no more about it , and turn to something else . 
So your forty thousand francs have already been entered on my profit and loss account . 
And yet it would be easy enough for you to repay me , if you would follow my advice and go quietly into bankruptcy . 
Never ! interrupted M. de Valorsay never ! I do not wish to temporize , he continued . 
I will save all , or save nothing . 
If you refuse me your help , I shall apply elsewhere . 
I will never truckle to the men whom I have eclipsed for fifteen years . 
The marquis was the first to speak . 
And so , said he , in a tone which he strove to make persuasive , but which was threatening instead , it is settled your decision is final ? Final . 
You will not even condescend to listen to my explanation ? It would be a loss of time . 
On receiving this cruel reply , M. de Valorsay struck the desk such a formidable blow with his clenched fist that several bundles of papers fell to the floor . 
His anger was not feigned now . 
A man who is determined to blow his brains out if he is defeated , is a terribly dangerous adversary . 
You do wrong to threaten me , said he . 
I don't fear you in the least . 
If I were your enemy , I should bring suit against you for the forty thousand francs you owe me . 
I should not obtain my money , of course , but I could shatter the tottering edifice of your fortune by a single blow . 
Let us sever our connection now , monsieur , and each go his own way without reference to the other . 
If you should succeed you will repay me . 
Victory perched upon the agent's banner , and it was with a feeling of pride that he saw his noble client depart , white and speechless with rage . 
What a rascal that marquis is , he muttered . 
I would certainly warn Mademoiselle Marguerite , poor girl , if I were not so much afraid of him . 
M. Casimir , the deceased Count de Chalusse's valet , was neither better nor worse than most of his fellows . 
At the same time their masters requited their devotion by efficacious protection and provision for the future . 
But such masters and such servants are nowadays only found in the old melodramas performed at the Ambigu , in The Emigre , for instance , or in The Last of the Chateauvieux . 
At present servants wander from one house to another , looking on their abode as a mere inn where they may find shelter till they are disposed for another journey . 
And families receive them as transient , and not unfrequently as dangerous , guests , whom it is always wise to treat with distrust . 
M. Casimir was no doubt honest , in the strict sense of the word . 
As he received high wages , he served passably well but he employed the best part of his energy in watching the count . 
He scented some great family secret in the household , and he felt angry and humiliated that this secret had not been intrusted to his discretion . 
And if he had discovered nothing , it was because M. de Chalusse had been caution personified , as Madame Leon had declared . 
He would have given a month's wages , and something over , to have known the contents of that letter , the fragments of which were being so carefully collected by the count . 
They were covered with delicate handwriting , a lady's unquestionably but he was utterly unable to extract the slightest meaning from them . 
Nevertheless , he preserved them with jealous care , and was careful not to say that he had found them . 
This explains his extreme readiness to search the count's clothes when Mademoiselle Marguerite told him to look for the key of the escritoire . 
And M. Casimir had no desire to be of service to this unhappy girl , who had always treated him with kindness . 
The infamous slander which Mademoiselle Marguerite had overheard on her way home from church , There goes the rich Count de Chalusse's mistress , was M. Casimir's work . 
He had sworn to be avenged on this haughty creature and no one can say what he might have attempted , if it had not been for the intervention of the magistrate . 
Imperatively called to order , M. Casimir consoled himself by the thought that the magistrate had intrusted him with eight thousand francs and the charge of the establishment . 
Nothing could have pleased him better . 
The place appointed for his meeting with M. Fortunat was on the Boulevard Haussmann , almost opposite Binder's , the famous carriage builder . 
Although it was rather a wine shop than a restaurant , a capital breakfast could be obtained there as M. Casimir had ascertained to his satisfaction several times before . 
Has no one called for me ? he asked , as he went in . 
He consulted his watch , and evinced considerable surprise . 
Not yet noon ! he exclaimed . 
I'm in advance and as that is the case , give me a glass of absinthe and a newspaper . 
Having emptied one glass of absinthe , he was about to order a second , when he felt a tap on the shoulder , and on turning round he beheld M. Isidore Fortunat . 
In accordance with his wont , the agent was attired in a style of severe elegance with gloves and boots fitting him to perfection but an unusually winning smile played upon his lips . 
You see I have been waiting for you , exclaimed M. Casimir . 
Yes , yes , you must . 
They will give us a private room we must have a talk . 
It was certainly not for the pleasure of the thing that M. Fortunat cultivated M. Casimir's acquaintance , and entertained him at breakfast . 
It was through the Count de Chalusse that he had made M. Casimir's acquaintance . 
While the count was employing the agent he had frequently sent his valet to him with messages and letters . 
Naturally , M. Casimir had talked on these occasions , and the agent had listened to him hence this superficial friendship . 
So , whenever he needed information , M. Fortunat invited M. Casimir to breakfast , knowing the potent influence of a good bottle of wine offered at the right moment . 
M. Casimir's eye sparkled as he took his seat at the table opposite his entertainer . 
The crafty agent had chosen a little room looking out on to the boulevard . 
The events of the morning had completely turned his head and gratified vanity and good cheer excited him to such a degree that he discoursed with unwonted volubility . 
With total disregard of prudence , he talked with inexcusable freedom of the Count de Chalusse , and M. de Valorsay , and especially of his enemy , Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Even if M. Fortunat had wished to put in a word or two , he could have found no opportunity . 
But his guest's loquacity did not displease him it gave him an opportunity for reflection . 
Strange thoughts arose in his mind , and connecting M. Casimir's affirmations with the assurances of the Marquis de Valorsay , he was amazed at the coincidence . 
It's very singular ! he thought . 
A partridge and a bottle of Pomard followed the shrimps and chablis and M. Casimir's loquacity increased , and his voice rose higher and higher . 
At the first word respecting this missive , M. Fortunat started violently . 
Nonsense ! said he , with an incredulous air . 
Why the devil should this letter have had such an influence ? I don't know . 
But it is certain it had . 
And I'm quite sure , said the valet , that the count intended to apply to you for the address of the person who wrote the letter . 
Are you sure of that ? As sure as I am of drinking Pomard ! exclaimed M. Casimir , draining his glass . 
Rarely had the agent experienced such emotion . 
He did not doubt but what this missive contained the solution of the mystery . 
Were the scraps of this letter found ? he asked . 
I have them , cried the valet , triumphantly . 
I have them in my pocket , and , what's more , I have the whole of them ! This declaration made M. Fortunat turn pale with delight . 
Indeed indeed ! said he it must be a strange production . 
His companion pursed up his lips disdainfully . 
May be so , may be not , he retorted . 
It's impossible to understand a word of it . 
The only thing certain about it is that it was written by a woman . 
Ah ! Yes , by a former mistress , undoubtedly . 
And , naturally , she asks for money for a child . 
Women of that class always do so . 
They've tried the game with me more than a dozen times , but I'm not so easily caught . 
And bursting with vanity , he related three or four love affairs in which , according to his own account , he must have played a most ignoble part . 
If M. Fortunat's chair had been a gridiron , heated by an excellent fire , he could not have felt more uncomfortable . 
After pouring out bumper after bumper for his guest , he perceived that he had gone too far , and that it would not be easy to check him . 
And this letter ? he interrupted , at last . 
Well ? You promised to let me read it . 
This did not suit M. Fortunat's fancy . 
So the lady lives in Paris , as usual . 
After this she puts neither 'monsieur , nor 'my friend , nor 'dear count , nothing at all . 
She begins abruptly 'Once before , many years ago , I came to you as a suppliant . 
You were pitiless , and did not even deign to answer me . 
And yet , as I told you , I was on the verge of a terrible precipice my brain was reeling , vertigo had seized hold of me . 
Deserted , I was wandering about Paris , homeless and penniless , and my child was starving ! M. Casimir paused to laugh . 
That's like all the rest of them , he exclaimed that is exactly like all the rest ! I've ten such letters in my drawer , even more imperative in their demands . 
If you'll come home with me after breakfast , I'll show them to you . 
We'll have a hearty laugh over them ! Let us finish this first . 
And he resumed 'If I had been alone . 
I should not have hesitated . 
I was so wretched that death seemed a refuge to me . 
But what was to become of my child ? Should I kill him , and destroy myself afterward ? I thought of doing so , but I lacked the courage . 
And what I implored you in pity to give me , was rightfully mine . 
I had only to present myself at your house and demand it . 
Alas ! I did not know that then . 
I believed myself bound by a solemn oath , and you inspired me with inexpressible terror . 
And still I could not see my child die of starvation before my very eyes . 
So I abandoned myself to my fate , and I have sunk so low that I have been obliged to separate from my son . 
He must not know the shame to which he owes his livelihood . 
And he is ignorant even of my existence . 
M. Fortunat was as motionless as if he had been turned to stone . 
After the information he had obtained respecting the count's past , and after the story told him by Madame Vantrasson , he could scarcely doubt . 
This letter , he thought , can only be from Mademoiselle Hermine de Chalusse . 
It is not a fortune that I ask for him , but sufficient to live upon , and I expect to receive it from you . 
Oblige me , therefore , by calling to morrow , October th , at the Hotel de Homburg , in the Rue du Helder . 
You will ask for Madame Lucy Huntley , and they will conduct you to me . 
I shall expect you from three o'clock to six . 
I implore you , come . 
Having finished the letter , M. Casimir laid it on the table , and poured out a glassful of brandy , which he drained at a single draught . 
And that's all , he remarked . 
No signature not even an initial . 
It was a so called respectable woman who wrote that . 
They never sign their notes , the hussies ! for fear of compromising themselves , as I've reason to know . 
And so saying , he laughed the idiotic laugh of a man who has been drinking immoderately . 
If I had time , he resumed , I should make some inquiries about this Madame Lucy Huntley a feigned name , evidently . 
I should like to know But what's the matter with you , Monsieur Fortunat ? You are as pale as death . 
Are you ill ? To tell the truth , the agent did look as if he were indisposed . 
I'm very well , only I just remembered that some one is waiting for me . 
Nonsense ! rejoined the valet make some excuse let him go about his business . 
Aren't you rich enough ? Pour us out another glass of wine it will make you all right again . 
To your health , said the valet . 
To yours , replied M. Fortunat . 
And in drawing back the arm he had extended to chink glasses with his guest , he caused the letter to fall on his knees . 
That won't do , my dear fellow ! You are going home with me and I will read you some love letters from a woman of the world . 
Then we will go to Mourloup's , and play a game of billiards . 
That's the place to enjoy one's self . 
You'll see Joseph , of the Commarin household , a splendid comedian . 
Very well but first I must settle the score here . 
M. Fortunat rang for his bill . 
He had obtained more information than he expected he had the letter in his pocket , and he had now only one desire , to rid himself of M. Casimir . 
But this was no easy task . 
He wishes to speak with you , gentlemen . 
Ah ! it's Chupin ! exclaimed the valet . 
Let him come in , and bring us another glass . 
'The more the merrier , as the saying goes . 
What could Chupin want ? M. Fortunat had no idea , but he was none the less grateful for his coming , being determined to hand this troublesome Casimir over to his keeping . 
On entering the room Chupin realized the valet's condition at the first glance , and his face clouded . 
He bowed politely to M. Fortunat , but addressed Casimir in an extremely discontented tone . 
It's three o'clock , said he , and I've come , as we agreed , to arrange with you about the count's funeral . 
These words had the effect of a cold shower bath on M. Casimir . 
What will they think at the house ? What will they say ? M. Fortunat had drawn his clerk a little on one side . 
Victor , said he , quickly and earnestly , I must go at once . 
Everything has been paid for but in case you need some money for a cab or anything of the sort , here are ten francs . 
If there's any you don't use , keep it for yourself . 
I leave this fool in your charge , take care of him . 
The sight of the ten franc piece made Chupin's face brighten a little . 
Very well , he replied . 
I served my apprenticeship as a 'guardian angel' when my grandmother kept the Poivriere . 
See Lecoq the Detective by Emile Gaboriau Above all , don't let him return home in his present state . 
Have no fears , monsieur , I must talk business with him , and so I shall have him all right in a jiffy . 
And as M. Fortunat made his escape , Chupin beckoned to the waiter , and said Fetch me some very strong coffee , a handful of salt , and a lemon . 
There's nothing better for bringing a drunken man to his senses . 
M. Fortunat left the restaurant , almost on the run , for he feared that he might be pursued and overtaken by M. Casimir . 
Never in all his changeful life had he known such intense anxiety and torturing suspense as he had just experienced in that little room in the restaurant . 
He had longed for positive information and he had obtained it but it had upset all his plans and annihilated all his hopes . 
Imagining that the count's heirs had been lost sight of , he had determined to find them and make a bargain with them , before they learned that they were worth their millions . 
But on the contrary , these heirs were close at hand , watching M. de Chalusse , and knowing their rights so well that they were ready to fight for them . 
For it was certainly the count's sister who wrote the letter which I have in my pocket , he murmured . 
Not wishing to receive him at her own home , she prudently appointed a meeting at a hotel . 
Perhaps , at that moment , he was sorry that he had severed his connection with the marquis . 
Still , he was not the man to despond , however desperate his plight might appear , without an attempt to better his situation . 
He knew how many surprising and sudden changes in fortune have been brought about by some apparently trivial action . 
I must discover this sister , he said to himself I must ascertain her position and her plans . 
Was it by chance or premeditation that this establishment had received the name of one of the gambling dens of Europe ? Perhaps the following information may serve to answer the question . 
The Hotel de Homburg was one of those flash hostelries frequented by adventurers of distinction , who are attracted to Paris by the millions that are annually squandered there . 
Spurious counts and questionable Russian princesses were sure to find a cordial welcome there with princely luxury , moderate prices , and but very little confidence . 
Each person was called by the title which it pleased him to give on his arrival Excellency or Prince , according to his fancy . 
All these things were provided without delay , by the month , by the day or by the hour , just as the applicant pleased . 
But there was no such thing as credit there . 
On hearing M. Fortunat enter , the woman looked up . 
What do you desire , monsieur ? she inquired , politely . 
I wish to see Madame Lucy Huntley . 
Lucy Huntley ! she repeated . 
First of all , he did not know . 
But he was not in the least disconcerted , and he avoided the question without the slightest embarrassment , at the same time trying to quicken the woman's faulty memory . 
This detail quickened the memory of the man with the magnifying glass none other than the woman's husband and landlord of the hotel . 
Ah ! the gentleman is speaking of the lady of No. you remember the same who insisted upon having the large private room . 
To be sure , replied the wife where could my wits have been ! And turning to M. Fortunat Excuse my forgetfulness , she added . 
The lady is no longer in the house she only remained here for a few hours . 
This reply did not surprise M. Fortunat he had expected it and yet he assumed an air of the utmost consternation . 
Only a few hours ! he repeated , like a despairing echo . 
She arrived here about eleven o'clock in the morning , with only a large valise by way of luggage , and she left that same evening at eight o'clock . 
Alas ! and where was she going ? She didn't tell me . 
You might have sworn that M. Fortunat was about to burst into tears . 
Poor Lucy ! said he , in a tragical tone it was for me , madame , that she was waiting . 
But it was only this morning that I received her letter appointing a meeting here . 
She must have been in despair . 
But M. Fortunat was not the man to be dismayed by such a trifle . 
She was taken to the railway station , no doubt , he insisted . 
Really , I know nothing about it . 
You told me just now that she had a large valise , so she could not have left your hotel on foot . 
She must have asked for a vehicle . 
Who was sent to fetch it ? One of your boys ? If I could find the driver I should , perhaps , be able to obtain some valuable information from him . 
The husband and wife exchanged a whole volume of suspicions in a single glance . 
M. Isidore Fortunat's appearance was incontestably respectable , but they were well aware that those strange men styled detectives are perfectly conversant with the art of dressing to perfection . 
So the hotelkeeper quickly decided on his course . 
Your idea is an excellent one , he said to M. Fortunat . 
This lady must certainly have taken a vehicle on leaving and what is more , it must have been a vehicle belonging to the hotel . 
If you will follow me , we will make some inquiries on the subject . 
She had a large Russia leather travelling bag . 
I took her , answered one of the drivers promptly . 
M. Fortunat advanced toward the man with open arms , and with such eagerness that it might have been supposed he meant to embrace him . 
Ah , my worthy fellow ! he exclaimed , you can save my life ! The driver looked exceedingly pleased . 
He was thinking that this gentleman would certainly requite his salvation by a magnificent gratuity . 
What do you want of me ? he asked . 
Tell me where you drove this lady ? I took her to the Rue de Berry . 
To what number ? Ah , I can't tell . 
But M. Fortunat no longer felt any anxiety . 
Very good , said he . 
You've forgotten it that's not at all strange . 
But you would know the house again , wouldn't you ? Undoubtedly I should . 
Will you take me there ? Certainly , sir . 
The hunter of missing heirs at once climbed inside but it was not until the carriage had left the courtyard that the landlord returned to his office . 
That man must be a detective , he remarked to his wife . 
It's strange we're not acquainted with him . 
He must be a new member of the force . 
But M. Fortunat was quite indifferent as to what impression he had left behind him at the Hotel de Homburg , for he never expected to set foot there again . 
The vehicle soon reached the Rue de Berry , and drew up in front of a charming little private house . 
Here we are , monsieur , said the driver , bowing at the door . 
However , the person the Jehu anathematized certainly did not hear him . 
Standing motionless where he had alighted , M. Fortunat scrutinized the house in front of him with close attention . 
So she lives here , he muttered . 
This is the place but I can't present myself without knowing her name . 
I must make some inquiries . 
There was a wine shop some fifty paces distant , and thither M. Fortunat hastened , and ordered a glass of currant syrup . 
He well remembered that this was the name the Marquis de Valorsay had mentioned when speaking of the vile conspiracy he had planned . 
Dash it ! said he . 
She must amuse herself to good purpose to have a house like that . 
Is she pretty ? That depends on taste . 
She's no longer young , at any rate but she has superb golden hair . 
There could no longer be any doubt . 
The portrait sketched by the wine vendor fully corresponded with the description given by the hotelkeeper in the Rue de Helder . 
Accordingly , M. Fortunat drained his glass , and threw fifty centimes on the counter . 
Then , crossing the street , he boldly rang at the door of Madame d'Argeles's house . 
If any one had asked him what he proposed doing and saying if he succeeded in effecting an entrance , he might have replied with perfect sincerity , I don't know . 
The fact is , he had but one aim , one settled purpose in his mind . 
He was obstinately , FURIOUSLY resolved to derive some benefit , small or great , from this mysterious affair . 
As for the means of execution , he relied entirely on his audacity and sang froid , convinced that they would not fail him when the decisive moment came . 
First of all , I must see this lady , he said to himself . 
The first words will depend solely upon my first impressions . 
After that , I shall be guided by circumstances . 
With a petulant gesture , M. Fortunat rejoined All the same I must speak with her to day . 
It is on a matter of the greatest importance . 
So saying , he held out a bit of pasteboard , on which , below his name , were inscribed the words Liquidations . 
Settlements effected for insolvent parties . 
Ah ! that's a different thing , said the servant . 
Left to himself , he began an inventory of the apartment , as a general studies the ground on which he is about to give battle . 
No trace remained of the unfortunate scene of the previous night , save a broken candelabrum on the chimney piece . 
But this detail did not attract M. Fortunat's attention . 
The only thing that puzzled him was the large reflector placed above the chandelier , and it took him some time to fathom with what object it was placed there . 
Without precisely intimidating him , the luxurious appointments of the house aroused his astonishment . 
Everything here is in princely style , he muttered , and this shows that all the lunatics are not at Charenton yet . 
If Madame d'Argeles lacked bread in days gone by , she does so no longer that's evident . 
For she must be an accomplice , he thought . 
But his meditations were suddenly interrupted by the sound of a discussion in an adjoining room . 
So , good bye , my dear lady . 
You'll learn some day , to your cost , the real nature of this villain of a Coralth whom you now defend so warmly . 
This name of Coralth was also one of those which were engraven upon M. Fortunat's memory and yet he did not notice it at the moment . 
The next moment Madame Lia d'Argeles entered the room . 
Her sad face wore an expression of melancholy resignation and there were signs of recent tears in her swollen eyes , surrounded by bluish circles . 
She glanced at her visitor , and , in anything but an encouraging tone exclaimed You desired to speak with me , I believe ? M. Fortunat bowed , almost disconcerted . 
I do , indeed , madame , wish to confer with you respecting some important interests , he answered . 
She sank on to a chair and , without asking her visitor to take a seat Explain yourself , she said , briefly . 
M. Fortunat's knowledge of the importance of the game in which he had already risked so much had already restored his presence of mind . 
I have the unpleasant duty of informing you of a great misfortune , madame , he began . 
A person who is very dear to you , and who is nearly related to you , was a victim of a frightful accident yesterday evening and died this morning . 
This gloomy preamble did not seem to produce the slightest effect on Madame d'Argeles . 
Whom are you speaking of ? she coldly asked . 
M. Fortunat assumed his most solemn manner as he replied Of your brother , madame of the Count de Chalusse . 
She sprang up , and a convulsive shudder shook her from head to foot . 
Raymond is dead ! she faltered . 
Alas ! yes , madame . 
Struck with death at the very moment he was repairing to the appointment you had given him at the Hotel de Homburg . 
This clever falsehood , which was not entirely one , would , so the agent thought , be of advantage to him , since it would prove he was acquainted with previous events . 
But Madame d'Argeles did not seem to notice , or even to hear the remark . 
She had fallen back in her arm chair , paler than death . 
How did he die ? she asked . 
From an attack of apoplexy . 
My God ! exclaimed the wretched woman , who now suspected the truth my God , forgive me . 
It was my letter that killed him ! and she wept as if her heart were breaking this woman who had suffered and wept so much . 
Madame d'Argeles had confessed everything ! This was indeed a victory , for it must be admitted that he had trembled lest she should deny all , and bid him leave the house . 
He still saw many difficulties between his pocket and the Count de Chalusse's money but he did not despair of conquering them after such a successful beginning . 
What prevents her ? he thought . 
With the passive docility of those who are wretched , she wiped away her tears , and replied , gently I am listening , monsieur . 
He had had time to prepare his discourse . 
First of all , madame , he remarked , I must tell you that I was the count's confidential agent . 
In him I lose a protector . 
Respect alone prevents me from saying a friend . 
He had no secrets from me . 
His death was so unexpected that he was unable to make any disposition of his property by will , or even to indicate his last wishes . 
This , madame , is fortunate for you . 
M. de Chalusse had certain prejudices against you , as you are aware . 
He certainly had the best heart in the world , and yet hatred with him was almost barbaric in its intensity . 
There can be no doubt whatever , that he had determined to deprive you of your inheritance . 
With this intention he had already begun to convert his estates into ready money , and had he lived six months longer you would not have received a penny . 
I see , madame , that your grief prevents you from realizing the extent of the peril you have escaped . 
M. de Chalusse had other , and more powerful reasons even than his hatred for wishing to deprive you of your share of his property . 
He had sworn that he would give a princely fortune to his beloved daughter . 
For the first time , Madame d'Argeles's features assumed an expression of surprise . 
It was decided the marquis adored her . 
But she she did not love him confess that she did not love him . 
M. Fortunat did not know what to reply . 
The question took him completely by surprise and feeling that his answer would have a very considerable influence upon what might follow , he hesitated . 
Will you answer me ? insisted Madame d'Argeles , imperiously . 
She loved another , did she not ? To tell the truth , I believe she did , the agent stammered . 
But I have no proof of it , madame . 
Ah ! the wretch ! she exclaimed with a threatening gesture the traitor ! the infamous scoundrel ! Now I understand it all . 
And to think that it occurred in my house . 
But no it was best so , I can still repair everything . 
And darting to the bell rope , she pulled it violently . 
A servant at once appeared . 
Job , she said , hasten after Baron Trigault he left the house a moment ago and bring him back . 
I must speak with him . 
Make haste , and do not return without him . 
And as the man turned to obey , she added My carriage must be in the courtyard . 
Meanwhile M. Fortunat's expression of countenance had undergone a marked change . 
Well ! thought he , I have just made a mess of it ! M. Valorsay is unmasked and now , may I be hung , if he ever marries Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
But she seemed literally transfigured by the storm of passion which was raging in her heart and mind her cheeks were crimson , and an unwonted energy sparkled in her eyes . 
Let us finish this business , she said , curtly I am expecting some one . 
M. Fortunat bowed with a rather pompous , but at the same time obsequious air . 
I have only a few more words to say , he declared . 
M. de Chalusse having no other heir , I have come to acquaint you with your rights . 
Very good continue , if you please . 
You have only to present yourself , and establish your identity , to be put in possession of your brother's property . 
It seemed to M. Fortunat as if he were suddenly falling from some immense height . 
You are not in earnest , he exclaimed , or you are ignorant of the fact that M. de Chalusse leaves perhaps twenty millions behind him . 
My course is decided on , monsieur irrevocably decided on . 
Very well , madame but it often happens that the court institutes inquiries for the heirs of large fortunes , and this may happen in your case . 
I should reply that I was not a member of the Chalusse family , and that would end it . 
Startled by the news of my brother's death , I allowed my secret to escape me . 
I shall know how to keep it in future . 
Anger succeeded astonishment in M. Fortunat's mind . 
Madame , madame , what can you be thinking of ? he cried , impetuously . 
Accept in Heaven's name accept this inheritance if not for yourself , for the sake of In his excitement , he was about to commit a terrible blunder . 
He saw it in time , and checked himself . 
For the sake of whom ? asked Madame d'Argeles , in an altered voice . 
For the sake of Mademoiselle Marguerite , madame for the sake of this poor child , who is your niece . 
The count never having acknowledged her as his daughter , she will be left actually without bread , while her father's millions go to enrich the state . 
That will suffice , monsieur I will think of it . 
And now , enough ! The dismissal was so imperious that M. Fortunat bowed and went off , completely bewildered by this denouement . 
She's crazy ! he said to himself . 
Crazy in the fullest sense of the word . 
She refuses the count's millions from a silly fear of telling people that she belongs to the Chalusse family . 
She threatened her brother , but she would never have carried her threats into execution . 
And she prefers her present position to such a fortune . 
What lunacy ! But , although he was disappointed and angry , he did not by any means despair . 
Fortunately for me , he thought , this proud and haughty lady has a son somewhere in the world . 
And she'll do for him what she would not consent to do for herself . 
Through her , with a little patience and Victor Chupin's aid , I shall succeed in discovering this boy . 
He must be an intelligent youth and we'll see if he surrenders his millions as easily as his mamma does . 
This is indeed , a terrible ordeal , and requires an amount of resolution and energy which few human beings possess . 
The boldest hesitate before such a sacrifice , and many a man has surrendered himself to justice rather than resort to this last extremity . 
And yet this was what Pascal Ferailleur had the courage to do , on the morrow of the shameful conspiracy that had deprived him of his good name . 
Madame Ferailleur and her son made all needful arrangements . 
I shall start out at once , said Pascal , and before two hours have elapsed I shall have found a modest lodging , where we must conceal ourselves for the present . 
I know a locality that will suit us , and where no one will certainly ever think of looking for us . 
You will only keep such of our linen and clothes as you can pack in three or four trunks . 
We are undoubtedly watched and so it is of the utmost importance that every one should imagine I have left Paris , and that you are going to join me . 
Very good , I will do so even if any one is watching us , he won't be likely to suspect this ruse . 
But afterward ? Afterward , mother , you must go to the waiting room upstairs , and you will find me there . 
Madame Ferailleur approved of this plan , deeming herself fortunate in this great calamity that despair had not destroyed her son's energy and resources of mind . 
Shall we retain our name , Pascal ? Oh , no . 
That would be an unpardonable imprudence . 
What name shall we take , then ? I must know , for they may ask me at the station . 
He reflected for a moment and then said We'll take your maiden name , mother . 
It will bring us good luck . 
Our new lodgings shall be hired in the name of the Widow Maumejan . 
They talked for some time longer , anxious to take every precaution that prudence could suggest . 
And when they were convinced that they had forgotten nothing , Madame Ferailleur suggested that Pascal should start off . 
But before doing so he had a sacred duty to perform . 
I must warn Marguerite , he muttered . 
And seating himself at his desk , he wrote his beloved a concise and exact account of the events which had taken place . 
He told her of the course he intended to pursue and promised her that she should know his new abode as soon as he knew it himself . 
In conclusion , he entreated her to grant him an interview , in which he could give her the full particulars of the affair and acquaint her with his hopes . 
As for exculpating himself , even by so much as a single word as for explaining the snare he had been the victim of , the idea never once occurred to him . 
He was worthy of Mademoiselle Marguerite he knew that not a doubt would disturb the perfect faith she had in his honor . 
Leaning over her son's shoulder , Madame Ferailleur read what he had written . 
Do you intend to trust this letter to the post ? she inquired . 
Are you sure , perfectly sure , that it will reach Mademoiselle Marguerite , and not some one else who might use it against you ? Pascal shook his head . 
I know how to insure its safe receipt , he replied . 
Some time ago , Marguerite told me that if ever any great peril threatened us , I might call for the housekeeper at the Chalusse mansion and intrust my message to her . 
The danger is sufficiently great to justify such a course in the present instance . 
So I shall pass down the Rue de Courcelles , ask to see Madame Leon , and give her this letter . 
Have no fear , my dear mother . 
Overcome by a flood of recollections , the tears sprang to his eyes . 
He embraced his mother , and fled precipitately from the house . 
And yet now , as on the day following her husband's death , she found in her heart the robust energy and heroic maternal constancy which enable one to rise above every misfortune . 
It was in a firm voice that she ordered her servant to go in search of the nearest furniture dealer , no matter which , provided he would pay cash . 
And when the man arrived she showed him through the rooms with stoical calmness . 
God alone knew how intensely she was suffering . 
And yet while she was waiting for the dealer , each piece of furniture had acquired an extraordinary value in her eyes . 
It seemed to her as if each object were a part of herself , and when the man turned and twisted a chair or a table she almost considered it a personal affront . 
The rich , who are accustomed from birth to the luxury that surrounds them , are ignorant of the terrible sufferings which attend such cases as these . 
The persons who do suffer are those of the middle classes , not the parvenus , but those who bid fair to become parvenus when misfortune overtook them . 
And that pretty clock ah ! they had fancied it would only herald the flight of prosperous and pleasant hours . 
And all these things the dealer handles , and shakes , and jeers at , and depreciates . 
He will scarcely condescend to purchase . 
Who would care to buy such trash ? He knows that the owner is in need of money , and he profits by this knowledge . 
How much did this cost you ? he asks , as he inspects one piece of furniture after another . 
Well , you must have been terribly cheated . 
Now , Madame Ferailleur's furniture had cost some ten thousand francs and , although it was no longer new , it was worth at least a third of that sum . 
But she obtained only seven hundred and sixty francs for it . 
It is true , however , that she was in haste , and that she was paid cash . 
Nine o'clock was striking when her trunks were at last piled on a cab , and she called out to the driver Take me to the Place du Havre to the railway station . 
Once before , when defrauded by a scoundrel , she had been obliged to part with all her household treasures . 
Once before she had left her home , taking merely the wreck of her fortune with her . 
Her husband's death had not caused her such bitter tears as her son's dishonor . 
She who was so proud , and who had such good reason to be proud , she could note the glances of scorn she was favored with as she left her home . 
She heard the insulting remarks made by some of her neighbors , who , like so many folks , found their chief delight in other people's misfortunes . 
Crocodile tears , some had exclaimed . 
She is going to meet her son and with what he has stolen they will live like princes in America . 
Rumor , which enlarges and misrepresents everything , had , indeed , absurdly exaggerated the affair at Madame d'Argeles's house . 
Meanwhile , Madame Ferailleur was approaching the station . 
The cab horse soon slackened its pace to climb the acclivity of the Rue d'Amsterdam and shortly afterward the vehicle drew up in the courtyard of the railway station . 
However , she did not see a single suspicious looking person . 
Partially reassured , Madame Ferailleur hastily ascended the staircase , and entered the large waiting room . 
It was here that Pascal had promised to meet her but , though she looked round on all sides , she did not perceive him . 
Still , this delay did not alarm her much nor was it at all strange , since Pascal had scarcely known what he would have to do when he left the house . 
This man proved to be Pascal . 
But his hair had been closely cut , and he had shaved off his beard . 
Well ? asked Madame Ferailleur , as she realized his identity . 
We have secured such rooms as I wished for . 
You will not be very comfortable there , but you will have the pleasure of a little garden . 
She rose , summoning all her energy . 
What does it matter where or what our abode is ? she interrupted , with forced gayety . 
I am confident that we shall not remain there long . 
What did she say ? The Count de Chalusse died this morning . 
Madame Ferailleur drew a long breath , as if greatly relieved . 
She was certainly expecting to hear something very different , and she did not understand why this death should be a great misfortune to them personally . 
So she took her son's arm , and led him away , saying Come , let us go . 
Pascal had kept the cab which he had been using during the afternoon and having installed his mother inside , he got in himself , and gave his new address to the driver . 
Now tell me all , said Madame Ferailleur . 
Naturally I went there first . 
A suite of rooms was vacant in one of these houses . 
I have taken it and in order that nothing may interfere with the liberty of my movements , I have paid six months' rent in advance . 
Here is the receipt , drawn up in the name we shall henceforth bear . 
My bargain concluded , he resumed , I returned into Paris , and entered the first furniture shop I saw . 
I meant to hire the necessary things to furnish our little home , but the dealer made all sorts of objections . 
He trembled for his furniture , he wanted a sum of money to be deposited as security , or the guarantee of three responsible business men . 
Seeing this , and knowing that I had no time to lose , I preferred to purchase such articles as were absolutely necessary . 
One of the conditions of the purchase was that everything should be in the house and in its place by eleven o'clock to night . 
So , before thinking of his love , and Mademoiselle Marguerite , Pascal had taken the necessary measures for the execution of his plan to regain his lost honor . 
Madame Ferailleur had scarcely supposed him capable of so much courage and firmness , and she rewarded him with a warm pressure of the hand . 
Then , as he was silent When did you see Madame Leon , then ? she asked . 
When all the household arrangements were completed , mother . 
On leaving the furniture shop , I found that I had still an hour and a quarter before me . 
I could defer no longer , and at the risk of obliging you to wait for me , I hastened to the Rue de Courcelles . 
It was evident that Pascal felt extreme embarrassment in speaking of Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
She was also a woman that is to say , distrustful and suspicious in reference to all other women . 
So , without taking pity on Pascal's embarrassment , she urged him to continue . 
I looked out and saw that we were driving over a thick layer of straw which had been spread across the street . 
I can scarcely describe my feelings on seeing this . 
A cold perspiration came over me I fancied I saw Marguerite in agony , dying far from me , and calling me in vain . 
It was evident that I ought not to go in person to inquire for Madame Leon . 
Fortunately , my driver the same who is driving us now is an obliging fellow , and I intrusted him with the commission , while I stood guard over his horses . 
Ten minutes later , Madame Leon left the house and came to meet me . 
Her first words , 'M . 
de Chalusse is dead , relieved my heart of a terrible weight . 
But she was in such haste that she could not stop to tell me any particulars . 
Still I gave her my letter , and she promised me a prompt reply from Marguerite . 
Everybody will be up and moving about the house to night , and she said she could easily make her escape for a few moments . 
So , at half past twelve to night she will be at the little garden gate , and if I am promptly at hand , I shall have a reply from Marguerite . 
Madame Ferailleur seemed to be expecting something more , and as Pascal remained silent , she remarked You spoke of a great misfortune . 
In what does it consist ? I do not perceive it . 
Regret , anger , and the consciousness of his present powerlessness drew from him tears which fell upon Madame Ferailleur's heart like molten lead but she succeeded in concealing her agony . 
All the more reason , she answered , almost coldly , why you should not lose a second , but devote all your energy and intelligence to the work of justification . 
Oh , I shall have my revenge , never fear . 
But in the meantime , what is to become of HER ? Think , mother , she is alone in the world , without a single friend . 
It is enough to drive one mad ! She loves you , you tell me . 
Ah , the scoundrel ! he exclaimed . 
If there was a God in heaven Wretched boy ! interrupted Madame Ferailleur you blaspheme when Providence has already interposed on your behalf . 
Leaving the Route d'Asnieres , the driver had turned into the Route de la Revolte , and had drawn up in front of an unpretentious two storied house which stood entirely alone . 
We have arrived , mother , said Pascal . 
A man , who was standing on the threshold , stepped forward to open the cab door . 
It was the furniture dealer . 
Here you are at last , M. Maumejan , said he . 
Come in , and you'll see that I've strictly fulfilled the conditions of our contract . 
He was paid the sum stipulated , and went away satisfied . 
Now , my dear mother , said Pascal , allow me to do the honors of the poor abode I have selected . 
He had taken only the ground floor of this humble dwelling . 
The story above , which had an independent entrance and staircase , was occupied by the quiet family of the owner . 
Although the space was small , the architect had made the most of it . 
He had divided it into four small rooms , separated by a corridor and the kitchen looked out upon a little garden about four times as large as an ordinary sheet . 
The furniture which Pascal had purchased was more than plain but it was well suited to this humble abode . 
It had just been brought in , but any one would have supposed it had been in its place for a couple of years . 
We shall be very comfortable here , declared Madame Ferailleur . 
By to morrow evening you won't recognize the place . 
I have saved a few trifles from the wreck some curtains , a couple of lamps , a clock you'll see . 
It's wonderful how much four trunks can be made to hold . 
When his mother set him such a noble example Pascal would have blushed to allow himself to be outdone . 
Certainly , my dear mother , he added , it is a lonely and unattractive neighborhood but you will find all the necessaries of life near at hand . 
The owner of the house lives on the floor above . 
I have talked with the wife they seem to be honest , quiet people and she will pilot you about . 
I inquired for some one to do the heavy work , and she mentioned a poor woman named Vantrasson , who lives in the neighborhood , and who is anxious to obtain employment . 
They were to inform her this evening , and you will see her to morrow . 
And above all , don't forget that you are henceforth Madame Maumejan . 
It was true he had forgotten it . 
He caught up his hat , hastily embraced his mother , and sprang into the vehicle . 
The horses were almost exhausted , but the driver was so willing that he found a means of making them trot as far as the Rue de Courcelles . 
However , on arriving there , he declared that his animals and himself could endure no more , and after receiving the amount due to him , he departed . 
The air was chilly , the night dark , and the street deserted . 
The gloomy silence was only disturbed at long intervals by the opening or shutting of a door , or by the distant tread of some belated pedestrian . 
He found it impossible to reflect , to deliberate , to decide on any plan of action . 
He forgot the tortures he had endured during the last twenty four hours Coralth , Valorsay , Madame d'Argeles , the baron , no longer existed for him . 
He forgot his loss of honor and position , and the disgrace attached to his name . 
The past was annihilated , as it were , and he could think of no future beyond the next few moments . 
His physical condition undoubtedly contributed to his mental weakness . 
He had taken no food that day , and he was faint from want of nourishment . 
He had come without an overcoat , moreover , and the cold night air chilled him to the bone . 
There was a strange ringing in his ears , and a mist swam before his eyes . 
At last the bell at the Beaujon Hospital tolled the appointed hour , and roused him from his lethargy . 
Soon it softly opened , and Madame Leon appeared . 
Ah ! it was not she that Pascal had hoped to see . 
I must go at once . 
What would become of me if the servants discovered my absence , and found that I had gone out alone She was hurrying away , but Pascal detained her . 
Pray wait until I see what she has written , he said , imploringly . 
I shall perhaps be obliged to send her some message in reply . 
Madame Leon obeyed , though with rather bad grace , and not without several times repeating Make haste ! while Pascal ran to a street lamp near by . 
It was not a letter that Marguerite had sent him , but a short note , written on a scrap of crumpled paper , folded , and not sealed . 
It was written in pencil and the handwriting was irregular and indistinct . 
Still , by the flickering light of the gas , Pascal deciphered the word Monsieur . 
Monsieur ! What did this mean ? In writing to him of recent times , Marguerite had always said , My dear Pascal , or , My friend . 
Nevertheless , he continued I have not had the courage to resist the entreaties made to me by the Count de Chalusse , my father , in his last agony . 
I have solemnly pledged myself to become the wife of the Marquis de Valorsay . 
One cannot break a promise made to the dying . 
I shall keep mine , even though my heart break . 
I shall do my duty . 
God will give me strength and courage . 
Forget her whom you loved . 
She is now the betrothed of another , and honor commands her to forget your very name . 
Once more , and for the last time , farewell ! If you love me , you will not try to see me again . 
It would only add to my misery . 
Think as though she were dead she who signs herself MARGUERITE . 
The commonplace wording of this letter , and the mistakes in spelling that marred it , entirely escaped Pascal's notice . 
Breathless , despairing , and half crazed with rage , he sprang toward Madame Leon . 
You hurt me ! she cried . 
If any one heard them , no one came still they recalled Pascal to a sense of the situation , and he was ashamed of his violence . 
He released Madame Leon , and his manner suddenly became as humble as it had been threatening . 
Excuse me , he said , entreatingly . 
I am suffering so much that I don't know what I'm doing . 
I beseech you to take me to Mademoiselle Marguerite , or else run and beg her to come here . 
I ask but a moment . 
Madame Leon pretended to be listening attentively but , in reality , she was quietly manoeuvring to gain the garden gate . 
All that he had so far endured was nothing in comparison with the thought that Valorsay would wed Marguerite . 
Was such a thing possible ? Would God permit such a monstrous iniquity ? No , that shall never be , he muttered . 
I will murder the scoundrel rather and afterward justice may do whatever it likes with me . 
His mother , who was waiting for him with an anxious heart , was surprised by the flush on his cheeks , and the light glittering in his eyes . 
Ah , you bring good news , she exclaimed . 
His only answer was to hand her the letter which Madame Leon had given him , saying as he did so , Read . 
If the whole world had accused your father of a crime , would a single doubt of his innocence have ever entered my mind ? This girl has doubted you . 
They have told her that you cheated at cards and she has believed it . 
You have failed to see that this oath at the bedside of the dying count is only an excuse . 
It was true the thought had not occurred to Pascal . 
My God ! he cried in agony are you the only one who believes in my innocence ? Without proofs yes . 
It must be your task to obtain these proofs . 
And I shall obtain them , he rejoined , in a tone of determination . 
I am strong now that I have Marguerite's life to defend for they have deceived her , mother , or she would never have given me up . 
Oh ! don't shake your head . 
I love her , and so I trust her . 
M. Isidore Fortunat was not the man to go to sleep over a plan when it was once formed . 
Whenever he said to himself , I'll do this , or that , he did it as soon as possible that very evening , rather than the next day . 
Thus his first care , on returning home , was to ask his bookkeeper for Victor Chupin's address . 
He lives in the Faubourg Saint Denis , replied the bookkeeper , at No. . 
Very well , muttered M. Fortunat I'll go there as soon as I have eaten my dinner . 
He had only to cross the first courtyard , take staircase D , on the left hand side , ascend to the sixth floor , go straight ahead , etc . 
Thanks to this unusual civility , M. Fortunat did not lose his way more than five times before reaching the door upon which was fastened a bit of pasteboard bearing Victor Chupin's name . 
The waxed floor shone like a mirror the furniture was brilliantly polished , and the counterpane and curtains of the bed were as white as snow . 
Near the bed , in the shade , sat a poorly but neatly clad woman about forty years of age , who was knitting industriously with some long wooden needles . 
M. Victor Chupin ? inquired M. Fortunat . 
The sound of his voice made the young man spring to his feet . 
The knitter rose , bowed respectfully , and said I hope , sir , that you are pleased with my son , and that he's honest . 
Certainly , madame , replied the agent certainly . 
Victor is one of my best and most reliable clerks . 
Then I'm content , said the woman , reseating herself . 
Chupin also seemed delighted This is my good mother , sir , said he . 
But take a seat , sir . 
May we venture to offer you anything ? Although his clerk had more than once alluded to his responsibilities , M. Fortunat was amazed . 
Thanks , Victor , he replied , I won't take any refreshment . 
I've just left the dinner table . 
I've come to give you my instructions respecting a very important and very urgent matter . 
Chupin at once understood that his employer wished for a private interview . 
M. Fortunat was positively touched . 
He held out his hand to his clerk and exclaimed You're a worthy fellow , Chupin . 
Ah ! don't speak of that man to me , m'sieur ! he exclaimed , or I shall hurt somebody . 
And then , as if he felt it necessary to explain and excuse his vindictive exclamation , he added My father , Polyte Chupin , is a good for nothing scamp . 
And yet he's had his opportunities . 
First , he was fortunate enough to find a wife like my mother , who is honesty itself so much so that she was called Toinon the Virtuous when she was young . 
She idolized him , and nearly killed herself by working to earn money for him . 
And yet he abused her so much , and made her weep so much , that she has become blind . 
One morning there came to him I don't know whence or how enough money for him to have lived like a gentleman . 
Any other man would have treasured that money , but not he . 
What he did was to carouse day and night , and all the while my poor mother was working her fingers to the bone to earn food for me . 
However , monsieur , you can very readily understand that when a man leads that kind of life , he speedily comes to the end of his banking account . 
But when he didn't know where to find a crust he remembered us he sought us out , and found us . 
Once I lent him a hundred sous the next day he came for forty more , and the next for three francs then for five francs again . 
And my poor , dear mother would have allowed him to do it . 
Fortunately , I happened to come in again . 
Certainly this was more than sufficient to explain and excuse Victor Chupin's indignation . 
And yet he had prudently withheld the most serious and important cause of his dislike . 
This miracle had occurred in Chupin's case but he did not boast of it . 
Come , come ! said M. Fortunat , don't worry too much about it . 
A father's a father after all , and yours will undoubtedly reform by and by . 
His first emotion had quickly vanished and he was beginning to find these confidential disclosures rather wearisome . 
Let us get back to business , he remarked that is to say , to Casimir . 
What did you do with the fool after my departure ? First , monsieur , I sobered him which was no easy task . 
But didn't you have some business to transact with him ? That's been arranged , monsieur the agreement has been signed . 
The count will have the best of funerals the finest hearse out , with six horses , twenty four mourning coaches a grand display , in fact . 
It will be worth seeing . 
That ought to bring you a handsome commission , he said , benignly . 
Hence his approval , in the present instance , was so remarkable that it awakened Chupin's suspicions . 
I shall make a few sous , probably , he modestly replied , a trifle to aid my good mother in keeping the pot boiling . 
So much the better , my boy , said M. Fortunat . 
I like to see money gained by those who make a good use of it . 
And to prove this , I'm about to employ you in an affair which will pay you handsomely if you prosecute it successfully . 
Chupin's eyes brightened at first but grew dark a moment afterward , for delight had been quickly followed by a feeling of distrust . 
He thought it exceedingly strange that an employer should take the trouble to climb to a sixth floor merely for the purpose of conferring a favor on his clerk . 
There must be something behind all this and so it behove him to keep his eyes open . 
And drawing his chair nearer to the bed on which his employee was seated , he added But first , one question , Victor . 
What a question ! he retorted . 
Nonsense ! monsieur , it would be impossible to deceive me . 
I should only have to remember my mother's eyes when I return home in the evening . 
M. Fortunat could not refrain from rubbing his hands , so delighted was he to see his idea so perfectly understood and so admirably expressed . 
Good ! he declared very good ! That's intelligence , if I am any judge . 
I have not been deceived in you , Victor . 
Victor was on fire with curiosity . 
What am I to do , monsieur ? he asked eagerly . 
You must watch her every glance , and when her eyes tell you that she is looking at her son , your task will be nearly over . 
You will then only have to follow this son , and find out his name and address , what he does , and how he lives . 
I don't know if I explain what I mean very clearly . 
This doubt was awakened in M. Fortunat's mind by Chupin's features , which were expressive of lively astonishment and discontent . 
Excuse me , monsieur , he said , at last , I do not understand at all . 
It's very simple , however . 
The lady in question has a son about twenty . 
I know it I'm sure of it . 
But she denies it she conceals the fact , and he doesn't even know her . 
She secretly watches over him , however she provides him with money , and every day she finds some way of seeing him . 
Now , it is to my interest to find this son . 
Chupin's mobile face became actually threatening in its expression he frowned darkly , and his lips quivered . 
I know this game I've tried it ! he went on , vehemently . 
One might as well take one's ticket to prison by a direct road . 
I should be there now if it hadn't been for Monsieur Andre . 
I hope to touch my hundred franc pieces without being obliged to wash my hands afterward . 
So , a very good evening to your establishment . 
M. Fortunat was amazed , and at the same time much annoyed , to find himself forsaken on account of such a trifle . 
He feared , too , that Chupin might let his tongue wag if he left his employment . 
So , since he had confided this project to Chupin , he was determined that Chupin alone should carry it into execution . 
Assuming his most severe and injured manner , he sternly exclaimed I think you have lost your senses . 
His demeanor and intonation were so perfectly cool that Chupin seemed slightly abashed . 
It seems that you think me capable of urging you to commit some dangerous and dishonorable act , continued M. Fortunat . 
In his youth he had seen many strange things , and acquired a knowledge of life that would have put the experience of a philosopher to shame . 
Small potatoes , upon my word ! he thought . 
Just the price of an honest service he would have offered more for a piece of rascality . 
So , after considering a moment , he said , aloud Very well I'm your man , m'sieur . 
M. Fortunat was secretly laughing at the success of his ruse . 
Having come with the intention of offering his agent a handsome sum , he was agreeably surprised to find that Chupin's scruples would enable him to save his money . 
If I hadn't found you engaged in study , Victor , he said , I should have thought you had been drinking . 
But , though he felt that there WAS a difference in the present case , it would have been very difficult for him to explain in what this difference consisted . 
Hence , in his most resolute tone I'm only a fool , m'sieur , he declared but I shall know how to make amends for my folly . 
That means you have recovered your senses , said M. Fortunat , ironically . 
But let me give you one bit of advice watch yourself , and learn to bridle your tongue . 
You won't always find me in such a good humor as I am this evening . 
So saying , he rose , passed out into the adjoining room , bowed civilly to his clerk's mother , and went off . 
His last words , as he crossed the threshold , were , So I shall rely upon you . 
Be at the office to morrow a little before noon . 
The old woman shook her head . 
Why were you talking so loud then ? she inquired . 
Weren't you quarrelling ? It must be something very grave when it's necessary to conceal it from me . 
I couldn't see your employer's face , my son but I heard his voice , and it didn't please me . 
It isn't the voice of an honest , straightforward man . 
Take care , Toto , and don't allow yourself to be cajoled be prudent . 
However , it was quite unnecessary to recommend prudence to Victor Chupin . 
He had promised his assistance , but not without a mental reservation . 
No need to see danger till it comes , he had said to himself . 
If the thing proves to be of questionable propriety after all , then good evening I desert . 
It remains to know what he meant by questionable propriety the meaning of the expression is rather vague . 
Only the line that separates good from evil was not very clearly defined in his mind . 
This was due in a great measure to his education , and to the fact that it had been long before he realized that police regulations do not constitute the highest moral law . 
However , on the following morning he arrayed himself in his best apparel , and at exactly half past eleven o'clock he rang at his employer's door . 
M. Fortunat had made quick work with his clients that morning , and was ready , dressed to go out . 
He took up his hat and said only the one word , Come . 
Madame d'Argeles received on Saturdays , and , as Chupin remarked , there was a regular procession of visitors . 
And he knew a good number of them , for the coachmen came to his shop for refreshments when their masters were spending the night in play at Madame d'Argeles's house . 
Certainly , m'sieur that's as clear as daylight . 
But that isn't the question . 
This objection , grave as it appeared , did not seem to disturb M. Fortunat . 
Don't worry about that , Victor , he replied . 
Under such circumstances , a mother wouldn't try to see her son from a rapidly moving carriage . 
She will undoubtedly alight , and contrive some means of passing and repassing him of touching him , if possible . 
Your task will only consist in following her closely enough to be on the ground as soon as she is . 
Confine your efforts to that and if you fail to day , you'll succeed to morrow or the day after the essential thing is to be patient . 
He did better than to preach patience he practised it . 
Look ! said M. Fortunat , eagerly . 
There she is ! XVIII . 
The woman in the carriage was none other than Madame Lia d'Argeles . 
A Dutchman , named Van Klopen , who was originally a tailor at Rotterdam , rightfully ascribes the honor of this progress to himself . 
Madame d'Argeles would personally have preferred less finery , perhaps , but it would not have done for her to be out of the fashion . 
She wore an imperceptible hat , balanced on an immense pyramidal chignon , from which escaped a torrent of wavy hair . 
She was giving orders for the drive , and her coachman , with a rose in his buttonhole , listened while he reined in the spirited horse . 
The weather's superb , added Chupin . 
She'll no doubt drive round the lakes in the Bois de Boulogne Ah , she's off ! interrupted M. Fortunat . 
Run , Victor , run ! and don't be miserly as regards carriage hire all your expenses shall be liberally refunded you . 
Chupin was already far away . 
Madame d'Argeles's horse went swiftly enough , but the agent's emissary had the limbs and the endurance of a stag , and he kept pace with the victoria without much difficulty . 
And as he ran along , his brain was busy . 
Stifling a sigh of regret , and seeing a cab at a stand near by , he hastily hailed it . 
Where do you want to go , sir ? inquired the driver . 
Just follow that blue victoria , in which a handsome lady is seated , my good fellow . 
Excuse me , said the Jehu , in a slightly ironical tone , I I said exactly what I mean , retorted Chupin , whose pride was severely wounded . 
And no more talk hurry on , or we shall miss the track . 
However , this circumstance gave the cabman an opportunity to overtake the victoria and after that the two vehicles kept close together as they proceeded down the Avenue de l'Imperatrice . 
But at the entrance of the Bois de Boulogne Chupin ordered his driver to stop . 
Halt ! he exclaimed I shall get out . 
Pay the extra cab charges for passing beyond the limits of Paris ! never ! I'll crawl on my hands and knees first . 
Here are forty sous for your fare and good evening to you . 
And , as the blue victoria was already some distance in advance , he started off at the top of his speed to overtake it . 
This manoeuvre was the result of his meditations while riding along . 
What will this fine lady do when she gets to the Bois ? he asked himself . 
Why , her coachman will take his place in the procession , and drive her slowly round and round the lakes . 
Meantime I can trot along beside her without attracting attention and it will be good for my health . 
His expectations were realized in every respect . 
The victoria soon turned to the left , and took its place in the long line of equipages which were slowly winding round the lake . 
This is a strange way of enjoying one's self , he muttered , as he trotted along . 
There can't be much pleasure in going round and round this lake . 
If ever I'm rich , I'll find some other way of amusing myself . 
Poor Chupin did not know that people do not go to the Bois to enjoy themselves , but rather to torment others . 
This broad drive is in reality only a field for the airing of vanity a sort of open air bazaar for the display of dresses and equipages . 
He was engaged in noting Madame d'Argeles's evident anxiety and restlessness . 
She looked eagerly on all sides , sometimes half leaning out of her carriage , and immediately turning her head whenever she heard the gallop of a horseman behind her . 
Chupin hastened after the victoria , keeping it in sight until he was fortunate enough to meet an empty cab , which he at once hired . 
This was done so quickly that Chupin barely had time to fling two francs to his driver and rush after her . 
She had already turned round the corner of the Rue du Helder , and was walking rapidly up the street . 
It was a little after five o'clock , and dusk was setting in . 
Madame d'Argeles had taken the side of the street allotted to the uneven numbers . 
After she had passed the Hotel de Homburg , she slackened her pace , and eagerly scrutinized one of the houses opposite No. . 
Her examination lasted but a moment , and seemed to be satisfactory . 
Convinced that he had almost reached the goal , Chupin also crossed , and followed closely at her heels . 
He soon saw her start and resume her rapid gait . 
What if that should be her son ? he thought . 
And while he pretended to be gazing into a shop window , he stealthily watched the poor woman . 
She had paused , and he was so near that he could almost have touched her . 
He saw her raise her veil and follow her insulter with a look which it was impossible to misunderstand . 
Oh ! oh ! It was her son that called her that said Chupin to himself , quite horrified . 
And without more ado , he hastened after the young man . 
He was between two and four and twenty years of age , rather above the medium height , with very light hair and an extremely pale complexion . 
His slight mustache would have been almost imperceptible if it had not been dyed several shades darker than his hair . 
He was attired with that studied carelessness which many consider to be the height of elegance , but which is just the reverse . 
And his bearing , his mustache , and his low hat , tipped rakishly over one ear , gave him an arrogant , pretentious , rowdyish appearance . 
Zounds ! that fellow doesn't suit my fancy , growled Chupin , as he trotted along . 
For he was almost running in his efforts to keep pace with Madame d'Argeles's insulter . 
The latter's haste was soon explained . 
He was carrying a letter which he wished to have delivered , and no doubt he feared he would not be able to find a commissionaire . 
Having discovered one at last , he called him , gave him the missive , and then pursued his way more leisurely . 
However , you were wise not to go . 
I am three hundred louis out of pocket . 
I staked everything on Domingo , the Marquis de Valorsay's horse . 
I thought I was sure to win yes , sure . 
Well , Domingo came in third . 
But the speaker did not really believe this , so he continued , more gayly Fortunately , I shall retrieve my losses to morrow , at Vincennes . 
Shall we see you there ? Probably . 
Then good by , until to morrow . 
Thereupon they shook hands , and each departed on his way . 
Chupin had not lost a word of this conversation . 
Valorsay a millionaire ! he said to himself . 
That's good ! Ah , well ! now I know my little gamecock's name , and I also know that he goes to the races . 
Wilkie that must be an English name I like the name of d'Argeles better . 
He was no longer in a hurry now he strolled along in view of killing time , displaying his charms , and staring impudently at every woman who passed . 
For that is the fashion the latest fancy chic ! Will you never have done ? growled Chupin . 
He followed his man closely , for the crowd was very great . 
Light was coming on , and the gas was lit on all sides . 
The weather was very mild , and there was not an unoccupied table in front of the cafes , for it was now the absinthe hour . 
The crowd became more dense as the Faubourg Montmartre was approached , but Wilkie made his way through the throng with the ease of an old boulevardier . 
He must have had a large circle of acquaintances , for he distributed bows right and left , and was spoken to by five or six promenaders . 
And now my little fighting cock is going to feed , thought Chupin . 
He , too , was hungry and he was trying to think of some modest restaurant in the neighborhood , when two young men passed near him and glanced into the cafe . 
Look , there's Wilkie ! observed one of them . 
That's so , upon my word ! responded the other . 
And he has money , too fortune has smiled upon him . 
How do you know that ? Why , by watching the fellow one can tell the condition of his purse as correctly as he could himself . 
When he is in average circumstances , he dines at Launay's , waxes his mustache , and brushes his hair back from his face . 
Zounds ! He's a very honorable fellow , then . 
Thereupon the two young men laughed , and passed on . 
Chupin had been greatly edified . 
As well as he could judge through the windowpane , M. Wilkie was eating his dinner with an excellent appetite . 
Ah ! he exclaimed , not without envy , these fighting cocks take good care of their stomachs . 
He's there for an hour at least , and I shall have time to run and swallow a mouthful myself . 
So saying , Chupin hastened to a small restaurant in a neighboring street , and magnificently disbursed the sum of thirty nine sous . 
Such extravagance was unusual on his part , for he had lived very frugally since he had taken a vow to become rich . 
Nor was this any great privation to him , since he gained a penny by it and a penny was another grain of sand added to the foundation of his future wealth . 
However , this evening he indulged in the extravagance of a glass of wine , deciding in his own mind that he had fairly earned it . 
When he returned to his post in front of the Cafe Riche , M. Wilkie was no longer alone at his table . 
Thereupon the servant gravely retired , more than ever convinced of the fact that vanity increases the fabulous total of Parisian gratuities by more than a million francs a year . 
My gallant youths are coming out , thought Chupin . 
I must keep my ears open . 
And approaching the door , he dropped on one knee , and pretended to be engaged in tying his shoestrings . 
This is one of the thousand expedients adopted by spies and inquisitive people . 
However , the young men whom Chupin was watching were far from suspecting that they were under surveillance . 
M. Wilkie came out first , talking very loud , as often happens when a man has just partaken of a good dinner , and is blessed with an excellent digestion . 
Come , Coralth , my good fellow , you won't desert me in this way ? I have a box for the Varietes , and you must go with me . 
We'll see if Silly imitates Theresa as perfectly as they say . 
But I have an appointment . 
Oh , well , let it wait . 
Come , viscount , is it agreed ? Ah , you do with me just as you like . 
Good ! But , first of all let us take a glass of beer to finish our cigars . 
And do you know whom you will find in my box ? At this moment they passed , and Chupin rose to his feet . 
Coralth , he muttered , Viscount de Coralth . 
He's not one of our clients . 
Let me see , Coralth . 
This is certainly the first time I have ever heard the name . 
His preoccupation had at least the advantage of shortening the time which he spent in promenading to and fro , while the friends sat outside a cafe smoking and drinking . 
It was still M. Wilkie who monopolized the conversation , while his companion listened with his elbow resting on the table , occasionally nodding his head in token of approbation . 
One thing that incensed Chupin was that they loitered there , when one of them had a ticket for a box at the theatre in his pocket . 
Idiots ! he growled they'll wait till the play's half over before they go in . 
And then they'll let the doors slam behind them for the express purpose of disturbing everybody . 
Fools , go ! As if they had heard the command , they rose suddenly , and an instant after they entered the Varietes . 
They entered , but Chupin remained on the pavement , scratching his head furiously , in accordance with his habit whenever he wished to develop his powers of imagination . 
He was trying to think how he might procure admission to the theatre without paying for it . 
Pay to see a farce ! he thought . 
Not I. I must know some one here I'll wait for the entr'acte . 
Well , it is a good thing to have friends everywhere , he muttered , as he took the seat assigned him . 
The body of hired applauders who are employed at most Parisian theatres to stimulate the enthusiasm of the audience . 
It was a very good place they had given him a seat in the second gallery commanding an excellent view of the house . 
The first glance around told him that his customers , as he styled them , were in a box exactly opposite . 
However , this did not seem to please the Viscount de Coralth , who kept himself as far back in the shade as he possibly could . 
But young Wilkie was evidently delighted , and seemed manifestly proud of the attention which the public was compelled to bestow upon his box . 
He offered himself as much as possible to the gaze of the audience moved about , leaned forward , and made himself fully as conspicuous as his fair companions . 
Less than ever did Chupin now forgive Wilkie for the insult he had cast in the face of Madame Lia d'Argeles , who was probably his mother . 
As for the play , M. Fortunat's emissary did not hear twenty words of it . 
He was so overcome with fatigue that he soon fell asleep . 
The noise and bustle of each entr'acte aroused him a little , but he did not thoroughly wake up until the close of the performance . 
His customers were still in their box , and M. Wilkie was gallantly wrapping the ladies in their cloaks and shawls . 
In the vestibule , he and M. de Coralth were joined by several other young men , and the whole party adjourned to a neighboring cafe . 
These people are certainly afflicted with an unquenchable thirst , growled Chupin . 
It seems to me we are going to stay here all night , he thought , angrily . 
All the other cafes were closing too , and the fastening of bolts or the clanking of shutter chains could be heard on every side . 
On the pavement stood groups of waiters in their shirt sleeves , stretching and yawning , and inhaling the fresh night air with delight . 
The boulevard was fast becoming deserted the men were going off in little groups , and female forms could be seen gliding along in the dark shadow cast by the houses . 
It was through a portal of this sort that M. Wilkie and his companions at last emerged , and on perceiving them , Chupin gave a grunt of satisfaction . 
At last , he thought , I can follow the man to his door , take his number , and go home . 
But his joy was short lived , for M. Wilkie proposed that the whole party should go and take supper . 
M. de Coralth demurred to the idea , but the others over ruled his objections , and dragged him away with them . 
Ah ! this is a bad job ! growled Chupin . 
What should he do ? Go home , said Reason it will be easy enough to find this Wilkie again . 
There can be little doubt that he lives at No. , in the Rue du Helder . 
Remain , whispered Avarice and , since you have accomplished so much , finish your work . 
M. Fortunat won't pay for conjectures , but for a certainty . 
Eight dozen Marennes for No. , shouted a waiter to the man who opened oysters near the restaurant door . 
On hearing this order , Chupin shook his clenched fist at the stars . 
They will , no doubt , remain at table until six o'clock in the morning . 
And they call this enjoying themselves . 
And meanwhile , poor little Chupin must wear out his shoe leather on the pavement . 
All these vehicles belonged to the peculiar category known as night cabs dilapidated conveyances with soiled , ragged linings , and drawn by half starved , jaded horses . 
However , Chupin neither thought of these vehicles , nor of the poor horses , nor , indeed , of the drivers themselves . 
His wrath had been succeeded by philosophical resignation he accepted with good grace what he could not avoid . 
As the night air had become very cool , he turned up the collar of his overcoat , and began to pace to and fro on the pavement in front of the restaurant . 
Reflecting on the manner in which M. Wilkie and the Viscount de Coralth had behaved during the evening , a singular suspicion assailed him . 
While M. Wilkie gradually lost his wits , M. de Coralth had become remarkably cold and reserved . 
He had seemed to oppose all M. Wilkie's propositions but he had agreed to them at last , so that his objections had produced much the same effect as a stimulant . 
It seemed then as if M. de Coralth had some strange interest in wishing to gain ascendency over his friend . 
At least such was Chupin's opinion . 
Oh , oh ! he murmured . 
But father Fortunat wouldn't be pleased with the news . 
One of these men was M. Wilkie as Chupin at once perceived . 
A glass of champagne and a cigar for the fellow who'll bring it me in room No. . 
By going up , he might , perhaps , compromise the success of his mission . 
But on the other hand his curiosity was aroused , and he very much wished to see , with his own eyes , how these young men were amusing themselves . 
Besides , he would have an opportunity of examining this handsome viscount , whom he was certain he had met before , though he could not tell when or where . 
In the meantime , M. Wilkie had perceived him . 
Come , you simpleton ! he cried make haste . 
You can't be very thirsty . 
The thought of the viscount decided Chupin . 
But Chupin did not seem to hear this order . 
Ah ! said Chupin , you see , m'sieur , that he asks for me . 
Very well , said Philippe . 
And raising the portiere he pushed Chupin into room No. . 
It was a small , square apartment , with a very low ceiling . 
The temperature was like that of a furnace , and the glare of the gaslights almost blinded one . 
The supper was over , but the table had not yet been cleared , and plates full of leavings showed that the guests had fairly exhausted their appetites . 
Still , with the exception of M. Wilkie , every one present seemed to be terribly bored . 
The four other young men were looking on phlegmatically . 
Ah ! here's my hat , exclaimed M. Wilkie , as soon as Chupin appeared . 
Wait and receive your promised reward . 
You must take me for a fool , he said , contemptuously . 
His conjectures had proved correct . 
M. Wilkie knew his right to the estate M. Fortunat had been forestalled by the viscount , and would merely have his labor for his pains . 
No chance for the guv'nor ! thought the agent's emissary . 
M. de Coralth saw this and , though he was far from suspecting the truth , his long repressed anger burst forth . 
It was only a random shot , but it reached home . 
The viscount seemed touched to the quick . 
You hear that , Wilkie , said he . 
This will teach you that the time of your compatriot , Lord Seymour , has passed by . 
The good humored race of plebeians who respectfully submitted to the blows with which noblemen honored them after drinking , has died out . 
This ought to cure you of your unfortunate habit of placing yourself on terms of equality with all the vagabonds you meet . 
Chupin's hair fairly bristled with anger . 
Go , go , they said . 
But he freed himself from their grasp . 
Never ! He called me a vagabond . 
Am I to pocket the insult quietly and walk off with it ? You can scarcely expect that . 
First , I demand an apology . 
This was asking too much of the Viscount de Coralth . 
Let the fool alone , he remarked , with affected coolness , and ring for the waiters to kick him out . 
It did not require this new insult to put Chupin in a furious passion . 
Come on ! he exclaimed . 
Ah , ha ! Where's the fellow who'll turn me out ? Let him come . 
Go , go ! insisted Wilkie's friends . 
Yes , I'll go with pleasure , but your friend must go , too . 
Is he a man ? Then let him come , and we'll settle this outside . 
And seeing that they were again trying to seize him Hands off ! he thundered , or I'll strike . 
You were not obliged to invite me here . 
It isn't my business to furnish amusement to parties who've drunk too much wine . 
And why should you despise me ? It's true I haven't any money while you have plenty that I work and you carouse . 
Still that's no reason why you should scorn me . 
Besides , those who are poor in the morning are sometimes rich in the evening . 
Every dog has his day . 
I have an idea that I shall have some coin when yours is all gone . 
Then it will be my turn to laugh and as I'm a good natured fellow , I will give you my half smoked cigars . 
Bravo , gamin ! or , Give it to him , Coralth ! he shouted in turn . 
This irritated the viscount exceedingly . 
I see that we shall be obliged to call in the police to settle the affair , he said , sneeringly . 
The police ! roared Chupin . 
For a change of expression in M. de Coralth's face had enlightened him and he suddenly recollected when and under what circumstances he had known this so called viscount . 
He remembered , too , the name he had borne when he first met him . 
But I'm not so very bad looking , fortunately , and I'm always hoping that the daughter of some rich banker will fall in love with me and marry me . 
Some people have such luck , you know . 
With but one exception the persons present did not understand a single word of this apparent nonsense and indeed the yellow haired damsels stared at the speaker in amazement . 
Still it was evident that each of these words had a meaning , and a terrible meaning for M. de Coralth . 
Accustomed for years to control his features , he remained apparently unmoved he even smiled but a close observer could have detected anguish in his eyes , and he had become very pale . 
Take your pay and leave us . 
Unfortunately , the note struck Chupin full in the face . 
But even M. Wilkie had found the fun a little rough , and even dangerous . 
Several of the young fellows present sprang up , with the evident intention of pushing Chupin out of the room , but he checked them with a gesture . 
Don't disturb yourselves , gentlemen , he said . 
I'm going , only let me find the bank note which this gentleman threw at me . 
That's quite proper , replied M. Wilkie , approvingly look for it . 
Chupin did so , and at last found it lying almost under the piano . 
Now , he remarked , I should like a cigar . 
A score or so were lying in a dish . 
He gravely selected one of them and coolly cut off the end of it before placing it in his mouth . 
Those around watched him with an air of profound astonishment , not understanding this ironical calmness following so closely upon such a storm of passion . 
Ah ! he's crazy ! murmured the yellow haired damsels , with despair in their voices . 
But M. Wilkie was enthusiastic . 
There's form ! said he . 
Fine form and no mistake ! But Chupin did not even deign to turn his head . 
He opened the door , and standing on the threshold , he bowed to M. de Coralth with an ironical smile . 
Until we meet again , Monsieur Paul , said he . 
And kindly remember me to Madame Paul , if you please . 
If the others had been less astonished , they would have no doubt have remarked the prodigious effect of this name upon their brilliant friend . 
He became ghastly pale and fell back in his chair . 
Then , suddenly , he bounded up as if he wished to attack his enemy . 
But pursuit seemed likely to yield no result , for Chupin was already on the boulevard . 
The morning air was very chilly nevertheless , Chupin seated himself on a bench across the boulevard , at a spot where he could watch the entrance of the restaurant without being seen . 
He had just experienced one of those sudden shocks which so disturb the mind , that one becomes insensible to outward circumstances , whatever they may be . 
Impressionable to excess like a true child of the faubourgs , he had the Parisian's strange mobility of feeling . 
If his anger was kindled by a trifle , the merest nothing usually sufficed to extinguish it . 
But matters were different respecting this handsome viscount ! God ! how I hate him ! he hissed through his set teeth . 
And this crime , if it had been successful , would have benefited the very fellow who concealed his sinful , shameful past under the high sounding name of Coralth . 
He had only seen him personally once or twice , and had never spoken to him . 
Later too late he discovered what vile intrigue it was that he had served . 
And when he became sincerely repentant he loathed this Coralth who had caused his crime . 
The recognition of Coralth had inspired him with remorse . 
It was in this way you began before . 
And this voice still tortured him , as seated on the bench he now tried to review the situation . 
Where , indeed , was he ? With rare good luck he had discovered the son whom Madame Lia d'Argeles had so long and successfully concealed . 
But contrary to all expectations , this young fellow already knew of the inheritance which he was entitled to . 
M. de Coralth had already achieved what M. Fortunat had meant to do and so the plan was a failure , and it was useless to persist in it . 
This would have ended the matter if Chupin had not chanced to know the Viscount de Coralth's shameful past . 
And this knowledge changed everything , for it gave him the power to interfere in a most effectual manner . 
Armed with this secret , he could bestow the victory on M. Fortunat , and force M. de Coralth to capitulate . 
And he could do this all the more easily , as he was sure that Coralth had not recognized him , and that he was perhaps ignorant of his very existence . 
So nothing prevented him from lending M. Fortunat his assistance , and thus killing two birds with one stone . 
He could have his revenge on Coralth , and at the same time insure his patron a large fee , of which he could claim a considerable share for himself . 
But no ! The idea of deriving any profit whatever from this affair inspired him with a feeling of disgust honor triumphed over his naturally crafty and avaricious nature . 
I will serve my guv'nor for nothing , he decided . 
When a man is avenged , he's well paid . 
Chupin decided upon this course because he could think of no better plan . 
Still , if he had been master of events he would have acted otherwise . 
He would have quietly presented the government with this inheritance which he found M. Wilkie so unworthy of . 
The devil only knows what he'll do with it , he thought . 
He'll squander it as my father squandered the fortune that was given him . 
It is only fools who meet with such luck as that . 
However , his meditations did not prevent him from keeping a close watch over the restaurant , for it was of the utmost importance that M. Wilkie should not escape him . 
Chupin watched them as they emerged . 
The more sober , surprised by the sunlight , and blushing at themselves , slunk hastily and quietly away . 
There was one man , moreover , whom the waiters were obliged to carry to his cab , for he could no longer stand on his feet . 
Chupin was beginning to feel uneasy . 
Can M. Wilkie and his friends have made their escape ? he wondered . 
But at that very moment they made their appearance . 
They lingered awhile on the pavement to chat , and Chupin had an opportunity of observing the effect of their night's dissipation on their faces . 
The brilliant sunlight made their eyes blink , and the cold sent purple blotches to their bloated cheeks . 
As for the young women with yellow hair , they appeared as they really were hideous . 
They considered themselves first class form they were producing an effect they were astonishing people . 
And what more could they desire ? One thing is certain they were irritating Chupin terribly . 
He was following them on the opposite side of the boulevard , at some little distance in the rear , for he was afraid of being recognized . 
The wretches ! he growled . 
One couldn't draw a pint of manly blood from the veins of all six of them . 
Ah , if they knew how I hate them ! But he had not long to nurse his wrath . 
On reaching the Rue Drouot , two of the gentlemen left the party , and two more went down the Rue Lepelletier . 
M. Wilkie and the viscount were left to walk down the boulevard alone . 
They linked their arms and carried on an animated conversation until they reached the Rue du Helder , where they shook hands and separated . 
What had they said at parting ? What agreement had been made between them ? Chupin would willingly have given a hundred sous from his private purse to have known . 
But the days of miracles are over . 
So Chupin sighed , and , following Wilkie , he soon saw him enter No. of the Rue du Helder . 
The concierge , who was at the door busily engaged in polishing the bell handle , bowed respectfully . 
So there it is ! grumbled Chupin . 
I knew he lived there I knew it by the way that Madame d'Argeles looked at the windows yesterday evening . 
Poor woman ! Ah ! her son's a fine fellow and no mistake ! His compassion for the unhappy mother seemed to recall him to a sense of duty . 
Scoundrel that I am ! he exclaimed , striking his forehead with his clenched fist . 
Why , I'm forgetting my own good mother ! And as his task was now ended , he started off on the run , taking the shortest cut to the Faubourg Saint Denis . 
Poor mother ! he said to himself as he tore along , what a night she must have had ! She must have cried her eyes out ! He spoke the truth . 
The poor woman had passed a night of agony counting the hours , and trembling each time the door of the house opened , announcing some tenant's return . 
And as morning approached , her anxiety increased . 
And of all misfortunes , it was an accident , even a fatal accident , that she dreaded least . 
Her poor eyes were weary of weeping when she at last recognized Victor's familiar step approaching down the passage . 
I believe you , my son , said the good woman , gravely you wouldn't deceive me , I'm sure . 
And she added What reassured me , when you kissed me , was that you hadn't been drinking . 
Chupin did not speak a word this confidence made him strangely uneasy . 
May I be hung , he thought , if after this I ever do anything that I can't confess to this poor good woman ! But he hadn't time for sentimental reflections . 
He had gone too far to draw back , and it was necessary for him to report the result of his researches as soon as possible . 
Accordingly , he hastily ate a morsel , for he was faint with hunger , and started out again , promising to return to dinner . 
He was in all the greater haste as it was Sunday . 
M. Fortunat was in the habit of passing these days in the country , and Chupin feared he might fail to see him if he was not expeditious in his movements . 
If he revealed everything , M. Fortunat might become discouraged and abandon the affair . 
It would be better to let him discover the truth himself , and profit by his anger to indicate a means of vengeance . 
It happened that M. Fortunat had decided not to go to the country that Sunday . 
He had slept later than usual , and was still in his dressing gown when Chupin made his appearance . 
He uttered a joyful cry on seeing his emissary , feeling assured that he must be the bearer of good news , since he came so early . 
You have succeeded , then ? he exclaimed . 
You have discovered Madame d'Argeles's son ? I have him . 
Ah ! I knew that you were a clever fellow . 
Quick , tell me everything . 
But no , wait a moment . 
He rang the bell , and Madame Dodelin at once made her appearance . 
Put another plate on the table , said the agent . 
M. Chupin will breakfast with me and serve us at once . 
You agree , don't you , Victor ? It's ten o'clock I'm hungry and we can talk better over a bottle of wine . 
This was a great honor and it gave Chupin a fitting idea of the value of the service he had rendered . 
He was not too much elated , however though he felt very sorry that he had eaten before he came . 
On his side , M. Fortunat by no means regretted having conferred this favor on his clerk , for the story which the latter related , caused him intense delight . 
Very good ! well done , he exclaimed every other minute . 
I could not have done better myself . 
You shall be abundantly rewarded , Victor , if this affair is successful . 
And at this thought his satisfaction overflowed in a complacent monologue Why shouldn't it succeed ? he asked himself . 
Could anything be more simple and certain ? I can make any demand I please one , two , three hundred thousand francs . 
Ah , it was a good thing that the Count de Chalusse died ! Now , I can forgive Valorsay . 
For he was of the opinion that a dwelling place indicates the character of its inmate , as surely as a shell indicates the form of the creature that inhabits it . 
M. Wilkie was comfortably lodged but his rooms were most pretentiously ornamented . 
They were indeed decorated in more than doubtful taste . 
After this inspection , M. Fortunat smiled complacently . 
This young fellow has expensive tastes , he thought . 
It will be very easy to manage him . 
He was not only up , but he was dressed to go out dressed in such a style that he would have been taken for a respectable groom . 
As his unknown visitor entered he looked up , and bruskly asked What do you want ? I called on business , monsieur . 
Ah , well ! this isn't a favorable moment . 
I must be at Vincennes for the races . 
I'm interested in a horse . 
So , you understand M. Fortunat was secretly amused by M. Wilkie's nonchalance . 
The young fellow won't be in so much of a hurry when he learns my business , he thought . 
And he replied aloud I can explain what brings me in a few words , monsieur . 
You come , don't you , to sell me the secret of an unclaimed inheritance , which belongs to me ? Very well , you have come too late . 
If the ceiling had fallen and crushed M. Fortunat there and then he would , mentally at least , have not been in a more pitiable condition . 
He stood silent , motionless , utterly confounded , with his mouth wide open , and such an expression of consternation in his eyes that M. Wilkie burst into a hearty laugh . 
Still the agent struggled against fate , and ultimately faltered Let me explain permit me Oh , it would be useless . 
I have already arranged with a party to prosecute my claims the agreement will be signed on the day after to morrow . 
With whom ? Ah , excuse me that's my affair . 
He had finished his chocolate , and he now poured out a glass of ice water , drank it , wiped his mouth , and rose from the table . 
You will excuse me , my dear sir , if I leave you , he remarked . 
As I said before , I am going to Vincennes . 
I have staked a thousand louis on 'Pompier de Nanterre , my horse , and my friends have ventured ten times as much . 
Take down that basket of champagne . 
Run and put on your new livery . 
Make haste , you little beast , I shall be too late . 
M. Fortunat left the room . 
The frightful anger that had followed his idiotic stupor sent his blood rushing madly to his brain . 
His feelings were so terrible that he was really frightened . 
Am I about to have an attack of apoplexy ? he wondered . 
It was fully five minutes before he dared to risk the descent and even when he reached the street , his features were so frightfully distorted that Chupin trembled . 
He sprang out , assisted his employer into the cab , and bade the driver return to the Place de la Bourse . 
It was really pitiful to see the despair which had succeeded M. Fortunat's joyful confidence . 
This is the end of everything , he groaned . 
I'm robbed , despoiled , ruined ! And such a sure thing as it seemed . 
M. Fortunat gave a violent start . 
Excuse me , monsieur it must be a vile rascal named Coralth . 
It was a bellow rather than a cry of rage that escaped M. Fortunat's lips . 
To a man of his experience , only a glimmer of light was required to reveal the whole situation . 
Ah ! I understand ! I see ! he exclaimed . 
Yes , you are right , Victor it's he Coralth Valorsay's tool ! Coralth was the traitor who , in obedience to Valorsay's orders , ruined the man who loved Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
The deed was done at Madame d'Argeles's house . 
So Coralth knows her , and knows her secret . 
It's he who has outwitted me . 
Ah , my cherubs , you don't know Fortunat yet ! Now well see if the innocent don't get the best of you , and if they don't unmask you . 
I shall do my best , since you have forced me to do it and gratis too ! Chupin was radiant his vengeance was assured . 
And I , monsieur , said he , will give you some information about this Coralth . 
First of all , the scoundrel's married and his wife keeps a tobacco shop somewhere near the Route d'Asnieres . 
I'll find her for you see if I don't The sudden stopping of the vehicle which had reached the Place de la Bourse , cut his words short . 
M. Fortunat ordered him to pay the driver , while he himself rushed upstairs , eager to arrange his plan of campaign to use his own expression . 
In his absence a commissionaire had brought a letter for him which Madame Dodelin now produced . 
He broke the seal , and read to his intense surprise Monsieur I am the ward of the late Count de Chalusse . 
I must speak to you . 
Will you grant me an interview on Wednesday next , at a quarter past three o'clock ? Yours respectfully , MARGUERITE . 
When Mademoiselle Marguerite left the dead count's bedside at ten o'clock at night to repair to Pascal Ferailleur's house , she did not yet despair of the future . 
Father , friend , rank , security , fortune she had lost all these in a single moment but she could still see a promise of happiness in the distance . 
And if it were absolutely necessary for them to leave France ah , well ! they would leave it . 
To them Fatherland would always be the spot where they lived together . 
If Pascal had failed her , everything had failed her . 
If she had lost him , she had lost her all . 
The world seemed empty struggling would be folly happiness was only an empty name . 
She indeed longed for death ! Madame Leon who had a set of formulas adapted to all circumstances , undertook to console her . 
Weep , my dear young lady , weep it will do you good . 
Ah ! this is certainly a horrible catastrophe . 
You are young , fortunately , and Time is a great consoler . 
M. Ferailleur isn't the only man on earth . 
There are others who love you already ! Silence ! interrupted Marguerite , more revolted than if she had heard a libertine whispering shameful proposals in her ear . 
Silence ! I forbid you to add another word . 
To speak of another what sacrilege ! Poor girl . 
Whom could she depend upon ? Not on Madame Leon . 
She distrusted her she had no confidence whatever in her . 
Should she ask for the advice of either of her suitors ? The Marquis de Valorsay inspired her with unconquerable aversion , and she despised the so called General de Fondege . 
But he would soon forget her , she thought and the future , such as it was presented to her imagination , seemed a terrible one . 
This hope was her sole chance of salvation . 
She clung to it as a shipwrecked mariner clings to the plank which is his only hope of life . 
When she returned to the mansion her mind was made up , and she had regained her usual composure . 
It was addressed to Mademoiselle Marguerite de Durtal de Chalusse , at the Hotel de Chalusse , Rue de Courcelles . 
At last , however , she opened the letter and read My dear , dear child . 
Ah ! she exclaimed , involuntarily , ah ! ah ! The letter was signed Athenais de Fondege . 
It had been written by the General's wife . 
I will not attempt to offer you consolation , God alone can assuage certain sorrows . 
I should come and weep with you if I were not kept in bed by illness . 
But to morrow , whatever happens , I shall be with you before breakfast . 
It is at such a time as this , my poor dear afflicted child , that one can tell one's true friends and we are yours as I hope to prove . 
He has offered you our modest home you have refused . 
Why ? With the authority conferred upon me by my age and my position as the mother of a family , I tell you that you ought to accept . 
What other course can you possibly think of ? Where would you go , my poor , dear child ? But we will discuss this matter to morrow . 
I shall find a way to persuade you to love us , and to allow yourself to be loved . 
In MY heart you will fill the place of the beloved and lamented daughter I have lost my beautiful and gentle Bathilde . 
Once more I say farewell until to morrow trusting that you will accept the sympathy and affection of your best friend , ATHENAIS DE FONDEGE . 
The count himself had said to her at the time Don't be so childish , Marguerite , as to trouble yourself about this foolish and impudent woman . 
And now this same woman sent her a letter overflowing with sympathy , and claimed her affection and confidence in the tone of an old and tried friend . 
Was such a change natural ? Not being what is called a credulous person , Mademoiselle Marguerite was unable to believe it . 
She divined that Madame de Fondege must have had some hidden motive in writing such a letter but what motive was it ? Alas ! she divined this also only too well . 
Such a calculation is a common one nowadays . 
never ! You would not dare . 
Besides , you are honest . 
But it is quite a different thing to profit by other people's rascality . 
Besides , there are no risks to be encountered . 
On perusing the letter a second time , it seemed to Mademoiselle Marguerite that she could hear the General and his wife discussing the means of obtaining a share of the two millions . 
She could hear Madame de Fondege saying to her husband You are a block head ! You frightened the girl by your precipitancy and roughness . 
But fortunately , I'm here . 
Let me manage the affair and I'll prove that women are far more clever than men . 
And , thereupon , she had seized her pen , and commenced this letter . 
In Mademoiselle Marguerite's opinion , the epistle betrayed the joint efforts of the pair . 
On the other hand , the phrase , I shall find a way to persuade you to love us , and to allow yourself to be loved , was unmistakably the wife's work . 
The writer's insincerity was fully revealed by one passage of the letter . 
You will fill the place of the beloved daughter I have lost , wrote Madame de Fondege . 
It is true that she had once had a daughter but the child had died of croup when only six months old , and more than twenty five years previously . 
Before taking any decided step , M. and Madame de Fondege had wished to consult their son and they had been unable to see him until late in the evening . 
However , as soon as the brilliant hussar had approved the noble scheme concocted by his parents , a servant had been dispatched with the letter . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite did not think of this , however . 
Jodon to the Marquis de Valorsay . 
Could she hope to escape when he had succumbed ? She could tell by the agony that was torturing her own heart , how much he must have suffered . 
Where was he now ? Beyond the frontiers of France ? They had told her so , but she did not , could not believe it . 
Knowing him as she knew him , it seemed to her impossible that he had accepted his fate so quickly and without a struggle . 
She was standing in front of the window with her burning forehead resting against the glass . 
At that very moment Pascal was waiting , seated on the curbstone opposite the mansion . 
At that very moment he was watching the shadow on the window curtain , wondering if it were not Marguerite's . 
If the night had been clear she might have discerned the motionless watcher in the street below , and divined that it was Pascal . 
Madame Leon was leaving the room , and a moment later Marguerite heard the house door leading into the garden open and shut again . 
There was nothing extraordinary about such an occurrence , and yet a strange misgiving assailed her . 
Why , she could not explain but many trivial circumstances , suddenly invested with a new and alarming significance , recurred to her mind . 
She remembered that Madame Leon had been restless and nervous all the evening . 
Twice , moreover , had the concierge come to tell her that some one wished to see her . 
Still , she listened , waiting to hear Madame Leon re enter the house . 
But more than a quarter of an hour elapsed , and yet the door did not open or close again . 
Either Madame Leon had not left the house at all , or else she was still outside . 
This is very strange ! thought Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Was I mistaken ? I must convince myself . 
And , obeying a mysterious influence , stronger than her own will , she left the room and went down the stairs . 
She had reached the hall , when the garden door suddenly opened , and Madame Leon came in . 
The lights in the hall were burning brightly , so that it was easy to observe the housekeeper's manner and countenance . 
She was panting for breath , like a person who had been running . 
She was very pale , and her dress was disordered . 
Her cap strings were untied , and her cap had slipped from her head and was hanging over her shoulders . 
What is the matter with you ? asked Mademoiselle Marguerite in astonishment . 
Where have you been ? On seeing the girl Madame Leon recoiled . 
Should she fly off or remain ? She hesitated for an instant and it was easy to read her hesitation in her eyes . 
Well ? insisted Mademoiselle Marguerite , impatiently . 
Why did you go out ? Ah ! I I thought I heard Mirza barking in the garden . 
That's very strange , remarked Mademoiselle Marguerite , for when you rose to leave the room , half an hour ago , Mirza was sleeping at your feet . 
What really is it possible ? It's certain . 
But the worthy woman had already recovered her self possession and her accustomed loquacity at the same time . 
Ah ! my dear young lady , she said , bravely , I'm in such sorrow that I'm losing my senses completely . 
But I could find nothing . 
I called 'Mirza ! Mirza ! and still nothing . 
I searched under all the trees , and yet I could not find her . 
Any one hearing her would have sworn that she was telling the truth . 
But , unfortunately , her earlier manner had proved her guilt . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was not deceived when she said to herself I am on the track of some abominable act . 
However , she had sufficient self control to conceal her suspicions and she pretended to be perfectly satisfied with the explanation which the house keeper had concocted . 
Ah , my dear Leon , you are altogether too timid it's absurd , she said , kindly . 
The housekeeper hung her head . 
I know that I make myself ridiculous , she said , humbly . 
But how can I help it ? When a person's frightened , she can't reason . 
Pray send the servants out to look . 
Very well it shall be done . 
And calling M. Casimir and Bourigeau , the concierge , she ordered them to take a lantern and explore the garden carefully . 
They obeyed , though with rather bad grace , not being particularly courageous , either of them , and , of course , they found nothing . 
No matter , said Madame Leon , I feel safe now . 
And she did indeed feel more tranquil in mind . 
I had a lucky escape ! she said to herself . 
What would have become of me , if Mademoiselle Marguerite had discovered the truth ? But the housekeeper congratulated herself on her victory too soon . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite not only suspected her of treason , but she was endeavoring to procure proofs of it . 
She felt certain that the plausible housekeeper had deceived her , and cruelly wronged her as well . 
But what she could not understand was , how Madame Leon had been able to do so . 
She had spent a long time in fruitless conjectures , when suddenly she remembered the little garden gate . 
The deceitful creature must have used that gate , she thought . 
It was easy for her to verify her suspicion . 
And I will know for certain before an hour has passed , said Mademoiselle Marguerite to herself . 
Having come to this conclusion , she feigned sleep , keeping a sharp watch over Madame Leon from between her half closed eyelids . 
The housekeeper , after twisting uneasily in her arm chair , at last became quiet again and it was soon evident that she was sleeping soundly . 
Thereupon Mademoiselle Marguerite rose to her feet and stole noiselessly from the room downstairs into the garden . 
She had provided herself with a candle and some matches , and as soon as she struck a light , she saw that her surmises were correct . 
The little gate had just been opened and closed again . 
And I have confided my most precious secrets to this wicked woman ! thought Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Fool that I was ! Already thoroughly convinced , she extinguished her candle . 
Still , having discovered so much , she wished to pursue her investigation to the end , and so she opened the little gate . 
An experienced observer would have realized by the disposition of these footprints that something like a struggle had taken place here but Mademoiselle Marguerite was not sufficiently expert for that . 
She only understood what a child would have understood that two people had been standing here for some time . 
Poor girl ! She had not seen Pascal when he was sitting in front of the mansion some hours before ! And now no presentiment warned her that these footprints were his . 
Why shouldn't I make use of this wicked woman ? thought Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
I can conceal from her what I don't wish her to know , and with a little skill I can make her carry to her employers such information as will serve my plans . 
She would not only retain Madame Leon in her service , but she would display even greater confidence in her than before . 
A strange and but imperfectly defined suspicion had entered her mind . 
To night , for the first time , she thought she could discover a mysterious connection between Pascal's misfortunes and her own . 
All these thoughts were well calculated to drive away sleep but the poor girl was only twenty , and it was the second night she had watched by the count's bedside . 
Thus at last fatigue overcame her , and she fell asleep . 
In the morning , about seven o'clock , Madame Leon was obliged to shake her to rouse her from the kind of lethargy into which she had fallen . 
Those in charge of the last rites had indeed arrived , and their heavy tread could be heard in the hall and in the courtyard . 
As the magistrate had given him carte blanche , he deemed it proper , as he remarked to Concierge Bourigeau , to have everything done in grand style . 
But he took good care not to reveal the fact that he had exacted a very handsome commission from all the people he employed . 
The hundred francs derived from Chupin had only whetted his appetite for more . 
I come to beg mademoiselle to retire to her own room , he said . 
She rose , and dragged herself to the bedside . 
Death had now effaced all traces of the count's last agony . 
His face wore its accustomed expression again , and it might have been fancied that he was asleep . 
For a long time Mademoiselle Marguerite stood looking at him , as if to engrave the features she would never behold again upon her memory . 
Mademoiselle , insisted M. Casimir mademoiselle , do not remain here . 
She heard him , and summoning all her strength , she leaned over the bed , kissed M. de Chalusse , and went away . 
But she was too late , for in passing through the hall she encountered the undertakers , who carried on their shoulders a long metallic case enclosed in two oaken ones . 
So , none of those terrible details , which so increase one's grief , were spared her . 
But she had already suffered so much that she had reached a state of gloomy apathy , almost insensibility and the exercise of her faculties was virtually suspended . 
Whiter than marble , she fell , rather than seated herself , on a chair , scarcely perceiving Madame Leon , who had followed her . 
The worthy housekeeper was greatly excited , and not without cause . 
But the hour fixed for the ceremony was approaching , several persons had already arrived , and yet M. de Fondege had not put in an appearance . 
It is incomprehensible , exclaimed Madame Leon . 
The General is usually punctuality personified . 
He must have met with some accident . 
And in her anxiety she stationed herself at the window , whence she could command a view of the courtyard , carefully scrutinizing every fresh arrival . 
Ah , I'm late ! he exclaimed but , dash it all ! it's not my fault ! And , struck by Mademoiselle Marguerite's immobility , he advanced and took her hand . 
And you , my dear little one , what is the matter with you ? he asked . 
Have you been ill ? You are frightfully pale . 
She succeeded in shaking off the torpor which was stealing over her , and replied in a faint voice I am not ill , monsieur . 
So much the better , my dear child , so much the better . 
It is our little heart that is suffering , is it not ? Yes yes I understand . 
But your old friends will console you . 
You received my wife's letter , did you not ? Ah , well ! what she told you , she will do she will do it . 
And to prove it , in spite of her illness , she followed me in fact , she is here ! XXI . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite sprang to her feet , quivering with indignation . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite was about to forbid her to enter , or to retire herself , when the thought of her determination to act stealthily restrained her . 
She was short , and very stout a faded blonde , with her complexion spoilt by a multitude of freckles . 
She had very large hands , broad , thick feet , and a shrill voice and the vulgarity of her appearance was all the more noticeable on account of her pretensions to elegance . 
Her attire suggested a continual conflict between elegance and economy between real poverty and feigned prodigality . 
No Madame de Fondege was a faithful wife , in the strict and legal sense of the word . 
But how she revenged herself ! She was virtuous but so dangerously virtuous that one might have supposed she was so against her will , and that she bitterly regretted it . 
She ruled her husband with a rod of iron . 
He trembled when she turned her pale blue eyes upon him in a certain fashion . 
And woe to him if he ventured to rebel . 
I know your heart I know that she will find in you a second mother . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite stood speechless and rigid . 
But she was unnecessarily alarmed . 
The hypocrisy of the General's wife was superior to that of Madame Leon . 
Confidence can be born only of long acquaintance and mutual esteem . 
But you will learn to know me . 
You will give me that sweet name of mother when I shall have deserved it . 
Standing at a little distance off , the General listened with the air of a man who has a profound respect for his wife's ability . 
Now the ice is broken , he thought , it will be strange if Athenais doesn't do whatever she pleases with that little savage . 
His hopes were so brightly reflected upon his countenance , that Madame Leon , who was furtively watching him , became alarmed . 
Ah ! what do these people want ? she said to herself and what do all these endearments mean ? Upon my word , I must warn my patron at once . 
And , fancying that no one noticed her , she slipped quietly and noiselessly from the room . 
But Mademoiselle Marguerite was on the watch . 
She had noticed the General's triumphant smile , and the look of anxiety that had suddenly clouded Madame Leon's face . 
so , without troubling herself about the proprieties , she asked M. and Madame de Fondege to excuse her for a second , and darted alter the housekeeper . 
Ah ! she did not need to go far . 
Marguerite at once understood that as Madame Leon knew that the marquis was among the funeral guests , she had gone to warn him of Madame de Fondege's presence . 
It also proved that Madame Leon was the Marquis de Valorsay's paid spy and that he must therefore have long been aware of Pascal's existence . 
But she lacked the time to follow out this train of thought . 
Her absence might awaken the Fondeges' suspicions and her success depended on letting them suppose that she was their dupe . 
I must fulfil a sacred duty . 
They are waiting for me downstairs , and they are no doubt becoming impatient . 
It is the first time in my life that I was ever behind time . 
The General was right in losing no more time . 
And yet curiosity somewhat tempered their impatience . 
Some of the strange circumstances attending the count's death had been noised abroad and some well informed persons declared that a fabulous sum of money had been stolen by a young girl . 
It is true , they did not think this embezzlement a positive crime . 
The person who was most disturbed by the delay was the master of the ceremonies . 
He was already talking of starting off when M. de Fondege appeared . 
The friends of M. de Chalusse who were to hold the cords of the pall came forward . 
There was a moment's confusion , then the hearse started , and the whole cortege filed out of the courtyard . 
Deep silence followed , so deep that the noise made in closing the heavy gates came upon one with startling effect . 
Ah ! moaned Madame de Fondege , it is over . 
Marguerite's only reply was a despairing gesture . 
It would have been impossible for her to articulate a syllable her tears were choking her . 
The thought of her future and her honor lent her strength to submit to the deceitful consolations of a woman whom she knew to be a dangerous enemy . 
For it is necessary to face the inevitable , she pursued . 
The troublesome realities of life have no respect for our grief . 
So it is with you , my dear child you would find a bitter pleasure in giving vent to your sorrow , but you are compelled to think of your future . 
As M. de Chalusse has no heirs , this house will be closed you can remain here no longer . 
I know it , madame . 
Where will you go ? Alas ! I don't know . 
I see only two courses for you to adopt . 
Either to ask the protection of some respectable family , or to enter a convent . 
This is your only hope of safety . 
Mademoiselle Marguerite bowed her head , without replying . 
To learn the plans which the General's wife had formed she must let her disclose them . 
Young , beautiful , and attractive as you are , it is impossible for you to live unprotected . 
Even if you had sufficient strength of character to lead a pure and honest life , the world would none the less refuse you its esteem . 
Mere prejudice , you say ? You are quite right but it is nevertheless true that a young girl who braves public opinion is lost . 
It was easy to see by Madame de Fondege's earnestness that she feared Mademoiselle Marguerite would avail herself of this opportunity of recovering her liberty . 
What shall I do , then ? asked the girl . 
Then ask the protection of some respectable family . 
The idea of being in any one's charge is disagreeable to me . 
Strange to say , Madame de Fondege did not protest , did not speak of her own house . 
She was too proud for that . 
Having once offered hospitality , she thought it would arouse suspicion if she insisted . 
So she contented herself with enumerating the arguments for and against the two propositions . 
While conversing with Madame de Fondege she had dexterously avoided compromising herself in any way when suddenly a servant appeared and announced the magistrate's arrival . 
He entered the room , with his usual benevolent smile upon his lips , but his searching eyes were never once taken off Madame de Fondege's face . 
He bowed , made a few polite remarks , and then addressing Marguerite , he said I must speak with you , mademoiselle , at once . 
You may tell madame , however , that you will certainly return in less than a quarter of an hour . 
The magistrate listened with his eyes fixed on his ring This is very serious , very serious , he said at last . 
Perhaps M. Ferailleur is innocent . 
And yet , why should he abscond ? why should he leave the country ? Ah ! monsieur , Pascal's flight is only feigned . 
He is in Paris concealed somewhere I'm sure of it and I know a man who will find him for me . 
Only one thing puzzles me his silence . 
To disappear without a word , without giving me any sign of life The magistrate interrupted her by a gesture . 
I see nothing surprising in that since your companion is the Marquis de Valorsay's spy . 
How do you know that she has not intercepted or destroyed some letter from M. Pascal ? Mademoiselle Marguerite turned pale . 
Great Heavens ! how blind I have been ! she exclaimed . 
I did not think of that . 
Oh , the wretch ! if one could only question her and make her confess her crime . 
But the magistrate was not the man to wander from the subject he was investigating . 
Let us return to Madame de Fondege , said he . 
She is extremely unwilling to see you go out into the world alone . 
Why ? through affection ? No. Why , then ? This is what we must ascertain . 
Secondly , she seems indifferent as to whether you accept her hospitality or enter a convent . 
She seems to prefer that I should enter a convent . 
What conclusion can we draw from that ? Simply , that the Fondege family don't particularly care about keeping you with them , or marrying you to their son . 
If they don't desire this , it is because they are perfectly sure that the missing money was not taken by you . 
Well , yes , my child , he said , at last . 
Yes , it is my conviction that the Fondeges possess the millions you saw in the count's escritoire , and which we have been unable to find . 
How they obtained possession of the money I can't conceive but they have it , or else logic is no longer logic . 
So you must forget what I have just told you , Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
She looked at him with an air of utter astonishment . 
You advise me to forget , she murmured , you wish me to forget . 
Yes you must conceal these suspicions in the deepest recesses of your heart , until the time comes when you have sufficient proof to convict the culprits . 
It is true that it will be a difficult task to collect such proofs but it is not impossible , with the aid of time , which divulges so many crimes . 
And you may count upon me I will give you the benefit of all my influence and experience . 
It shall never be said that I allowed a defenceless girl to be crushed while I saw any chance of saving her . 
Tears came to Mademoiselle Marguerite's eyes . 
But , my child , you must help yourself . 
Remember this if the Fondeges suspect our suspicions , all is lost . 
Repeat this to yourself at every moment in the day and be discreet , impenetrable for people with unclean consciences and hands are always distrustful of others . 
In the first place I shall keep Madame Leon with me , in whatever capacity she likes , it doesn't matter what . 
Through her I shall no doubt be able to watch the Marquis de Valorsay , and perhaps eventually discover his hopes and his aim . 
In the second place , I shall accept the hospitality offered me by the General and his wife . 
With them , I shall be in the very centre of the intrigue , and in a position to collect proofs of their infamy . 
The magistrate gave vent to an exclamation of delight . 
You are a brave girl , Mademoiselle Marguerite , he said , and at the same time a prudent one . 
Yes that is the proper course to pursue . 
Nothing now remained save to make arrangements for her departure . 
They are worth a very handsome amount . 
I shall leave them with you , monsieur . 
If the courts restore them to me later well I shall take them and not without pleasure , I frankly confess . 
Then as the magistrate questioned her anxiously as to her resources , she replied Oh ! I'm not without money . 
M. de Chalusse was generosity itself , and my tastes are very simple . 
From the money he gave me for my clothes I saved more than eight thousand francs in less than six months . 
That is more than sufficient to maintain me for a year . 
The magistrate then explained that when the court took possession of this immense estate , it would surely allow her a certain sum . 
For whether the count was her father or not , he was at any rate her officially appointed guardian , and she would be considered a minor . 
An additional reason why I should give up my jewels , said Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
The only point that now remained was to decide upon some plan by which she could communicate with her friend , the magistrate , without the knowledge of the General or his wife . 
The magistrate accordingly explained a system of correspondence which would defy the closest surveillance , and then added Now , make haste back to your visitor . 
Who knows what suspicions your absence may have caused her ? But Mademoiselle Marguerite had one more request to make . 
She had often seen in M. de Chalusse's possession a little note book , in which he entered the names and addresses of the persons with whom he had business transactions . 
Ah ! I'm sure that I shall find Pascal now ! she exclaimed . 
And after once more thanking the magistrate , she returned to her room again . 
Madame de Fondege was awaiting her with feverish impatience . 
How long you stayed ! she cried . 
I had so many explanations to give , madame . 
How you are tormented , my poor child ! Oh , shamefully ! This furnished Madame de Fondege with another excuse for proffering her advice . 
But Mademoiselle Marguerite would not allow herself to be convinced at once . 
She raised a great many objections , and parleyed for a long time before telling Madame de Fondege that she would be happy to accept the hospitality which had been offered her . 
And her consent was by no means unconditional . 
She insisted on paying her board , and expressed the wish to retain the services of Madame Leon to whom she was so much attached . 
The worthy housekeeper was present at this conference . 
For an instant she had feared that Mademoiselle Marguerite suspected her manoeuvres but her fears were now dispelled , and she even congratulated herself on her skilfulness . 
Everything was arranged , and the agreement had been sealed with a kiss , when the General returned about four o'clock . 
Ah , my dear ! cried his wife , what happiness ! We have a daughter ! But even this intelligence was scarcely sufficient to revive her husband's drooping spirits . 
Yes , it is a great happiness ! he now replied . 
Dash it ! growled the General . 
Then the moment of departure came . 
The conclusion of this exciting narrative will be found in the volume called Baron Trigault's Vengeance . 
