The Coral Island A Tale of the Pacific Ocean by R. M. Ballantyne . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk The Coral Island A Tale of the Pacific Ocean Preface I was a boy when I went through the wonderful adventures herein set down . 
It is not meant for him . 
RALPH ROVER CHAPTER I. The beginning My early life and character I thirst for adventure in foreign lands and go to sea . 
ROVING has always been , and still is , my ruling passion , the joy of my heart , the very sunshine of my existence . 
It was a wild , black night of howling storm , the night in which I was born on the foaming bosom of the broad Atlantic Ocean . 
My father was a sea captain my grandfather was a sea captain my great grandfather had been a marine . 
At anyrate we knew that , as far back as our family could be traced , it had been intimately connected with the great watery waste . 
Thus it was , I suppose , that I came to inherit a roving disposition . 
It was not long after this that I began to show the roving spirit that dwelt within me . 
For some years I was happy in visiting the sea ports , and in coasting along the shores of my native land . 
My Christian name was Ralph , and my comrades added to this the name of Rover , in consequence of the passion which I always evinced for travelling . 
My shipmates were kind , good natured fellows , and they and I got on very well together . 
They did , indeed , very frequently make game of and banter me , but not unkindly and I overheard them sometimes saying that Ralph Rover was a queer , old fashioned fellow . 
This , I must confess , surprised me much , and I pondered the saying long , but could come at no satisfactory conclusion as to that wherein my old fashionedness lay . 
It is true I was a quiet lad , and seldom spoke except when spoken to . 
I was also very fond of inquiring into the nature of things and their causes , and often fell into fits of abstraction while thus engaged in my mind . 
But in all this I saw nothing that did not seem to be exceedingly natural , and could by no means understand why my comrades should call me an old fashioned fellow . 
But of all the places of which they told me , none captivated and charmed my imagination so much as the Coral Islands of the Southern Seas . 
These exciting accounts had so great an effect upon my mind , that , when I reached the age of fifteen , I resolved to make a voyage to the South Seas . 
My dear mother , seeing that my father had made up his mind , no longer offered opposition to my wishes . 
I will not take up my reader's time with a minute account of all that occurred before I took my final leave of my dear parents . 
Soon afterwards I went on board the Arrow , which was a fine large ship , and set sail for the islands of the Pacific Ocean . 
The departure The sea My companions Some account of the wonderful sights we saw on the great deep A dreadful storm and a frightful wreck . 
IT was a bright , beautiful , warm day when our ship spread her canvass to the breeze , and sailed for the regions of the south . 
Jack Martin was a tall , strapping , broad shouldered youth of eighteen , with a handsome , good humoured , firm face . 
He had had a good education , was clever and hearty and lion like in his actions , but mild and quiet in disposition . 
Jack was a general favourite , and had a peculiar fondness for me . 
My other companion was Peterkin Gay . 
He was little , quick , funny , decidedly mischievous , and about fourteen years old . 
But Peterkin's mischief was almost always harmless , else he could not have been so much beloved as he was . 
Hallo ! youngster , cried Jack Martin , giving me a slap on the shoulder , the day I joined the ship , come below and I'll show you your berth . 
You and I are to be mess mates , and I think we shall be good friends , for I like the look o' you . 
He and I and Peterkin afterwards became the best and stanchest friends that ever tossed together on the stormy waves . 
I shall say little about the first part of our voyage . 
They were pursued by dolphins , which feed on them , and one flying fish in its terror flew over the ship , struck on the rigging , and fell upon the deck . 
Jack and I had it for dinner , and found it remarkably good . 
Cape Horn , said one , is the most horrible headland I ever doubled . 
I've sailed round it twice already , and both times the ship was a'most blow'd out o' the water . 
And often did we three long to be landed on one , imagining that we should certainly find perfect happiness there ! Our wish was granted sooner than we expected . 
One night , soon after we entered the tropics , an awful storm burst upon our ship . 
The first squall of wind carried away two of our masts and left only the foremast standing . 
Even this , however , was more than enough , for we did not dare to hoist a rag of sail on it . 
For five days the tempest raged in all its fury . 
Everything was swept off the decks except one small boat . 
The steersman was lashed to the wheel , lest he should be washed away , and we all gave ourselves up for lost . 
At day break on the sixth morning of the gale we saw land ahead . 
It was an island encircled by a reef of coral on which the waves broke in fury . 
There was calm water within this reef , but we could only see one narrow opening into it . 
It's all over with us now , lads , said the captain to the men get the boat ready to launch we shall be on the rocks in less than half an hour . 
The men obeyed in gloomy silence , for they felt that there was little hope of so small a boat living in such a sea . 
You see it is impossible that the little boat can reach the shore , crowded with men . 
He alone is both able and willing to save your body and your soul . 
So I felt much comforted when I thought thereon . 
The ship was now very near the rocks . 
The men were ready with the boat , and the captain beside them giving orders , when a tremendous wave came towards us . 
We three ran towards the bow to lay hold of our oar , and had barely reached it when the wave fell on the deck with a crash like thunder . 
At the same moment the ship struck , the foremast broke off close to the deck and went over the side , carrying the boat and men along with it . 
Another wave , however , washed it clear of the wreck . 
We all seized hold of it , and the next instant we were struggling in the wild sea . 
The last thing I saw was the boat whirling in the surf , and all the sailors tossed into the foaming waves . 
The Coral Island Our first cogitations after landing , and the result of them We conclude that the island is uninhabited . 
Gradually the roar of the surf became louder and more distinct . 
Come , come , Ralph , said Jack , pressing me gently backward , lie down , my boy you're not right yet . 
Wet your lips with this water , it's cool and clear as crystal . 
I got it from a spring close at hand . 
There now , don't say a word , hold your tongue , said he , seeing me about to speak . 
I'll tell you all about it , but you must not utter a syllable till you have rested well . 
Let him speak , Jack it's a comfort to hear that he's alive , after lying there stiff and white and sulky for a whole hour , just like an Egyptian mummy . 
Never saw such a fellow as you are , Ralph always up to mischief . 
You've almost knocked out all my teeth and more than half choked me , and now you go shamming dead ! It's very wicked of you , indeed it is . 
While Peterkin ran on in this style , my faculties became quite clear again , and I began to understand my position . 
Hush , Peterkin , said Jack , you're exciting Ralph with your nonsense . 
I'll explain it to you . 
But the captain and crew , what of them ? I inquired anxiously . 
Are they lost ? No , they are not lost , I hope , but I fear there is not much chance of their being saved . 
The ship struck at the very tail of the island on which we are cast . 
Poor fellows , I murmured sorrowfully . 
But the more I think about it , I've better hope of them , continued Jack , in a more cheerful tone . 
I'm sure I hope so , said Peterkin , earnestly . 
But what has become of the wreck , Jack ? I saw you clambering up the rocks there while I was watching Ralph . 
Did you say she had gone to pieces ? No , she has not gone to pieces , but she has gone to the bottom , replied Jack . 
As I said before , she struck on the tail of the island and stove in her bow , but the next breaker swung her clear , and she floated away to leeward . 
The poor fellows in the boat made a hard struggle to reach her , but long before they came near her she filled and went down . 
It was after she foundered that I saw them trying to pull to the island . 
There wan a long silence after Jack ceased speaking , and I have no doubt that each was revolving in his mind our extraordinary position . 
For my part I cannot say that my reflections were very agreeable . 
I knew that we were on an island , for Jack had said so , but whether it was inhabited or not I did not know . 
If it should be inhabited , I felt certain , from all I had heard of South Sea Islanders , that we should be roasted alive and eaten . 
If it should turn out to be uninhabited , I fancied that we should be starved to death . 
Lost ! Ralph ? exclaimed Jack , while a smile overspread his hearty countenance . 
Saved , you should have said . 
Your cogitations seem to have taken a wrong road , and led you to a wrong conclusion . 
Do you know what conclusion I have come to ? said Peterkin . 
We've got an island all to ourselves . 
We'll take possession in the name of the king we'll go and enter the service of its black inhabitants . 
Of course we'll rise , naturally , to the top of affairs . 
White men always do in savage countries . 
You shall be king , Jack Ralph , prime minister , and I shall be The court jester , interrupted Jack . 
No , retorted Peterkin , I'll have no title at all . 
I shall merely accept a highly responsible situation under government , for you see , Jack , I'm fond of having an enormous salary and nothing to do . 
If this is a desert island , we shall have to live very much like the wild beasts , for we have not a tool of any kind , not even a knife . 
Yes , we have THAT , said Peterkin , fumbling in his trousers pocket , from which he drew forth a small penknife with only one blade , and that was broken . 
Well , that's better than nothing but come , said Jack , rising , we are wasting our time in TALKING instead of DOING . 
They had also stripped off most part of my wet clothes and spread them also on the rocks . 
Second , An old German silver pencil case without any lead in it . 
Third , A piece of whip cord about six yards long . 
Fourth , A sailmaker's needle of a small size . 
Indeed it was with difficulty that Jack got it out of my grasp when I was lying insensible on the shore . 
I cannot understand why I kept such a firm hold of this telescope . 
They say that a drowning man will clutch at a straw . 
Perhaps it may have been some such feeling in me , for I did not know that it was in my hand at the time we were wrecked . 
Our sixth article was a brass ring which Jack always wore on his little finger . 
I never understood why he wore it , for Jack was not vain of his appearance , and did not seem to care for ornaments of any kind . 
In addition to these articles we had a little bit of tinder , and the clothes on our backs . 
These last were as follows Each of us had on a pair of stout canvass trousers , and a pair of sailors' thick shoes . 
Peterkin had also a pair of white cotton socks , and a blue handkerchief with white spots all over it . 
My own costume consisted of a blue flannel shirt , a blue jacket , a black cap , and a pair of worsted socks , besides the shoes and canvass trousers already mentioned . 
While we were examining these things , and talking about them , Jack suddenly started and exclaimed The oar ! we have forgotten the oar . 
What good will that do us ? said Peterkin there's wood enough on the island to make a thousand oars . 
Ay , lad , replied Jack , but there's a bit of hoop iron at the end of it , and that may be of much use to us . 
Very true , said I , let us go fetch it and with that we all three rose and hastened down to the beach . 
The gale had suddenly died away , just as if it had blown furiously till it dashed our ship upon the rocks , and had nothing more to do after accomplishing that . 
A sandy beach of dazzling whiteness lined this bright green shore , and upon it there fell a gentle ripple of the sea . 
This last astonished me much , for I recollected that at home the sea used to fall in huge billows on the shore long after a storm had subsided . 
But on casting my glance out to sea the cause became apparent . 
This spray sometimes flew exceedingly high , and , every here and there , a beautiful rainbow was formed for a moment among the falling drops . 
We afterwards found that this coral reef extended quite round the island , and formed a natural breakwater to it . 
Beyond this the sea rose and tossed violently from the effects of the storm but between the reef and the shore it was as calm and as smooth as a pond . 
My heart was filled with more delight than I can express at sight of so many glorious objects , and my thoughts turned suddenly to the contemplation of the Creator of them all . 
What an odd fellow he is , to be sure , said Jack , taking me by the arm and hurrying forward come , let us hasten to see what it is . 
Here it is , boys , hurrah ! come along . 
Just what we want , cried Peterkin , as we drew near , still tugging with all his power . 
First rate just the very ticket ! I need scarcely say to my readers that my companion Peterkin was in the habit of using very remarkable and peculiar phrases . 
I often asked Peterkin to explain what he meant by ticket , but he always answered me by going into fits of laughter . 
However , by observing the occasions on which he used it , I came to understand that it meant to show that something was remarkably good , or fortunate . 
Fortunately for us the axe had remained fast in the oar , and even now , all Peterkin's strength could not draw it out of the cut . 
Ah ! that is capital indeed , cried Jack , at the same time giving the axe a wrench that plucked it out of the tough wood . 
How fortunate this is ! It will be of more value to us than a hundred knives , and the edge is quite new and sharp . 
I'll answer for the toughness of the handle at any rate , cried Peterkin my arms are nearly pulled out of the sockets . 
But see here , our luck is great . 
There is iron on the blade . 
He pointed to a piece of hoop iron , as he spoke , which had been nailed round the blade of the oar to prevent it from splitting . 
This also was a fortunate discovery . 
Jack went down on his knees , and with the edge of the axe began carefully to force out the nails . 
I don't expect anything , but it is well to see . 
When we get back here it will be time to have our supper and prepare our beds . 
Besides , I saw one or two strange birds eating them just a few minutes ago , and what won't kill the birds won't kill us . 
But look up there , Peterkin , continued Jack , pointing to the branched head of a cocoa nut palm . 
There are nuts for us in all stages . 
But , whatever faults my young comrade had , he could not be blamed for want of activity or animal spirits . 
You had better keep them till we return , raid Jack . 
Let us finish our work before eating . 
So be it , captain , go ahead , cried Peterkin , thrusting the nuts into his trousers pocket . 
In fact I don't want to eat just now , but I would give a good deal for a drink . 
Oh that I could find a spring ! but I don't see the smallest sign of one hereabouts . 
Oh , Jack , that's all humbug . 
If you begin to lay everything to the credit of books , I'll quite lose my opinion of you , cried Peterkin , with a look of contempt . 
Humph ! maybe you're right , answered Peterkin but I would not give TUPPENCE for a man of books , if he had nothing else in him . 
Neither would I , said Jack but that's no reason why you should run books down , or think less of me for having read them . 
And suppose I were to write the account in a letter instead of telling you in words , would that be less useful ? Well no , perhaps not . 
Very well , Peterkin , we shall see , returned Jack , halting under the shade of a cocoa nut tree . 
You said you were thirsty just a minute ago now , jump up that tree and bring down a nut , not a ripe one , bring a green , unripe one . 
Peterkin looked surprised , but , seeing that Jack was in earnest , he obeyed . 
Now , cut a hole in it with your penknife , and clap it to your mouth , old fellow , said Jack . 
Peterkin did as he was directed , and we both burst into uncontrollable laughter at the changes that instantly passed over his expressive countenance . 
Only taste that ! said he , turning to me and holding the nut to my mouth . 
I immediately drank , and certainly I was much surprised at the delightful liquid that flowed copiously down my throat . 
It is very wholesome food I believe . 
We afterwards found , however , that these lovely islands were very unlike Paradise in many things . 
But more of this in its proper place . 
Just as we were about to return , however , we saw something black floating in a little cove that had escaped our observation . 
Peterkin immediately put them on , but they were so large that , as Jack said , they would have done for boots , trousers , and vest too . 
I may remark , however , that Jack did not use them often , as they were extremely heavy . 
With these we erected a sort of rustic bower , in which we meant to pass the night . 
Having strewed the floor with leaves and dry grass , we bethought ourselves of supper . 
But it now occurred to us , for the first time , that we had no means of making a fire . 
Now , there's a fix ! what shall we do ? said Peterkin , while we both turned our eyes to Jack , to whom we always looked in our difficulties . 
Jack seemed not a little perplexed . 
There are flints enough , no doubt , on the beach , said he , but they are of no use at all without a steel . 
However , we must try . 
So saying , he went to the beach , and soon returned with two flints . 
He then tried the bit of hoop iron , which would not strike fire at all and after that the back of the axe , with no better success . 
In his sudden recollection of the telescope he had quite overlooked the absence of the sun . 
Ah , boys , I've got it now ! exclaimed Jack , rising and cutting a branch from a neighbouring bush , which be stripped of its leaves . 
I recollect seeing this done once at home . 
Hand me the bit of whip cord . 
With the cord and branch Jack soon formed a bow . 
Then he cut a piece , about three inches long , off the end of a dead branch , which he pointed at the two ends . 
That night the starry sky looked down through the gently rustling trees upon our slumbers , and the distant roaring of the surf upon the coral reef was our lullaby . 
I was much troubled about this . 
However , I consoled myself with reflecting that I could keep the second part of my promise to her , namely , that I should never omit to say my prayers . 
So I rose quietly , lest I should disturb my companions , who were still asleep , and stepped aside into the bushes for this purpose . 
On my return I found them still slumbering , so I again lay down to think over our situation . 
Just at that moment I was attracted by the sight of a very small parrot , which Jack afterwards told me was called a paroquet . 
It was seated on a twig that overhung Peterkin's head , and I was speedily lost in admiration of its bright green plumage , which was mingled with other gay colours . 
While I looked I observed that the bird turned its head slowly from side to side and looked downwards , fist with the one eye , and then with the other . 
On glancing downwards I observed that Peterkin's mouth was wide open , and that this remarkable bird was looking into it . 
Peterkin used to say that I had not an atom of fun in my composition , and that I never could understand a joke . 
This awoke him , and , with a cry of surprise , he started up , while the foolish bird flew precipitately away . 
Oh you monster ! cried Peterkin , shaking his fist at the bird . 
Then he yawned and rubbed his eyes , and asked what o'clock it was . 
I smiled at this question , and answered that , as our watches were at the bottom of the sea , I could not tell , but it was a little past sunrise . 
Peterkin now began to remember where we were . 
As he looked up into the bright sky , and snuffed the scented air , his eyes glistened with delight , and he uttered a faint hurrah ! and yawned again . 
The cry awoke Jack , who rose on his elbow with a look of grave surprise but this was followed by a quiet smile of intelligence on seeing Peterkin in the water . 
However , when I got into the water I managed very well , for I was really a good swimmer , and diver too . 
While Peterkin enjoyed himself in the shallow water and in running along the beach , Jack and I swam out into the deep water , and occasionally dived for stones . 
I shall never forget my surprise and delight on first beholding the bottom of the sea . 
When Jack and I dived in shallower water , we expected to have found sand and stones , instead of which we found ourselves in what appeared really to be an enchanted garden . 
The whole of the bottom of the lagoon , as we called the calm water within the reef , was covered with coral of every shape , size , and hue . 
On darting to the surface for breath , after our first dive , Jack and I rose close to each other . 
Did you ever in your life , Ralph , see anything so lovely ? said Jack , as he flung the spray from his hair . 
It appears to me like fairy realms . 
I can scarcely believe that we are not dreaming . 
Dreaming ! cried Jack , do you know , Ralph , I'm half tempted to think that we really are dreaming . 
When Jack reached the bottom , he grasped the coral stems , and crept along on his hands and knees , peeping under the sea weed and among the rocks . 
Suddenly he made a grasp at a fish with blue and yellow stripes on its back , and actually touched its tail , but did not catch it . 
In a few minutes he recovered , and we both turned to swim ashore . 
I declare , Ralph , said he , that I actually tried to laugh under water . 
So I saw , I replied and I observed that you very nearly caught that fish by the tail . 
It would have done capitally for breakfast if you had . 
Breakfast enough here , said he , holding up the oysters , as we landed and ran up the beach . 
Hallo ! Peterkin , here you are , boy . 
Split open these fellows while Ralph and I put on our clothes . 
They'll agree with the cocoa nuts excellently , I have no doubt . 
Peterkin , who was already dressed , took the oysters , and opened them with the edge of our axe , exclaiming , Now , that IS capital . 
There's nothing I'm so fond of . 
Ah ! that's lucky , remarked Jack . 
I'll be able to keep you in good order now , Master Peterkin . 
You know you can't dive any better than a cat . 
So , sir , whenever you behave ill , you shall have no oysters for breakfast . 
I'm very glad that our prospect of breakfast is so good , said I , for I'm very hungry . 
Here , then , stop your mouth with that , Ralph , said Peterkin , holding a large oyster to my lips . 
I opened my mouth and swallowed it in silence , and really it was remarkably good . 
We now set ourselves earnestly about our preparations for spending the day . 
What those plans were , and how we carried them into effect , the reader shall see hereafter . 
This cave , we hoped , might be useful to us afterwards as a store house . 
Then we cut two large clubs off a species of very hard tree which grew near at hand . 
One of these was given to Peterkin , the other to me , and Jack armed himself with the axe . 
We took these precautions because we purposed to make an excursion to the top of the mountains of the interior , in order to obtain a better view of our island . 
Of course we knew not what dangers might befall us by the way , so thought it best to be prepared . 
Here we turned our backs on the sea and struck into the interior . 
The prospect that burst upon our view on entering the valley was truly splendid . 
On either side of us there was a gentle rise in the land , which thus formed two ridges about a mile apart on each side of the valley . 
Jack , being the wisest and boldest among us , took the lead , carrying the axe on his shoulder . 
Peterkin , with his enormous club , came second , as he said he should like to be in a position to defend me if any danger should threaten . 
Although , as I have said the trees and bushes were very luxuriant , they were not so thickly crowded together as to hinder our progress among them . 
But sometimes a jutting out rock on the hill sides afforded us a position whence we could enjoy the romantic view and mark our progress towards the foot of the hill . 
There were several kinds of flowers , too , but I did not see so many of these as I should have expected in such a climate . 
We also saw a great variety of small birds of bright plumage , and many paroquets similar to the one that awoke Peterkin so rudely in the morning . 
I can see nothing , he said , after a short pause . 
I think it Again the rumbling sound came , louder than before , and we all sprang back and stood on the defensive . 
Suddenly the pattering noise increased with tenfold violence . 
It was followed by a fearful crash among the bushes , which was rapidly repeated , as if some gigantic animal were bounding towards us . 
Pooh ! is that all ? exclaimed Peterkin , wiping the perspiration off his forehead . 
Nevertheless , remarked Jack , if that same stone had hit any of us , it would have rendered the charge you speak of quite unnecessary , Peterkin . 
This was true , and I felt very thankful for our escape . 
On examining the spot more narrowly , we found that it lay close to the foot of a very rugged precipice , from which stones of various sizes were always tumbling at intervals . 
Indeed , the numerous fragments lying scattered all around might have suggested the cause of the sound , had we not been too suddenly alarmed to think of anything . 
We now resumed our journey , resolving that , in our future excursions into the interior , we would be careful to avoid this dangerous precipice . 
Soon afterwards we arrived at the foot of the hill and prepared to ascend it . 
Here Jack made a discovery which caused us all very great joy . 
This was a tree of a remarkably beautiful appearance , which Jack confidently declared to be the celebrated bread fruit tree . 
Is it celebrated ? inquired Peterkin , with a look of great simplicity . 
It is , replied Jack That's odd , now , rejoined Peterkin never heard of it before . 
Then it's not so celebrated as I thought it was , returned Jack , quietly squeezing Peterkin's hat over his eyes but listen , you ignorant boobie ! and hear of it now . 
So you see , lads , that we have no lack of material here to make us comfortable , if we are only clever enough to use it . 
But are you sure that that's it ? asked Peterkin . 
Quite sure , replied Jack for I was particularly interested in the account I once read of it , and I remember the description well . 
I am sorry , however , that I have forgotten the descriptions of many other trees which I am sure we have seen to day , if we could but recognise them . 
So you see , Peterkin , I'm not up to everything yet . 
The fruit , with which it was loaded , was nearly round , and appeared to be about six inches in diameter , with a rough rind , marked with lozenge shaped divisions . 
It was of various colours , from light pea green to brown and rich yellow . 
Jack said that the yellow was the ripe fruit . 
Such a wonderful difference from the trees of our own country surprised us not a little . 
Our hearts were now very much cheered by our good fortune , and it was with light and active steps that we clambered up the steep sides of the hill . 
On reaching the summit , a new , and if possible a grander , prospect met our gaze . 
We found that this was not the highest part of the island , but that another hill lay beyond , with a wide valley between it and the one on which we stood . 
Among these we recognised many of the bread fruit trees , laden with yellow fruit , and also a great many cocoa nut palms . 
After gazing our fill we pushed down the hill side , crossed the valley , and soon began to ascend the second mountain . 
It was clothed with trees nearly to the top , but the summit was bare , and in some places broken . 
While on our way up we came to an object which filled us with much interest . 
This was the stump of a tree that had evidently been cut down with an axe ! So , then , we were not the first who had viewed this beautiful isle . 
The hand of man had been at work there before us . 
Perhaps , said Peterkin , some ship or other has touched here long ago for wood , and only taken one tree . 
In fact it was the highest large tree on the mountain , all above it being wood of very recent growth . 
I can't understand it , said Jack , scratching the surface of the stump with his axe . 
I can only suppose that the savages have been here and cut it for some purpose known only to themselves . 
But although the traces were distinct , beyond all doubt , the exact form of the letters could not be made out . 
Jack thought they looked like J. S. but we could not be certain . 
They had apparently been carelessly cut , and long exposure to the weather had so broken them up that we could not make out what they were . 
We found this to be the highest point of the island , and from it we saw our kingdom lying , as it were , like a map around us . 
Between these lay a rich , beautiful valley , as already said . 
This valley crossed the island from one end to the other , being high in the middle and sloping on each side towards the sea . 
At the base of this mountain lay a narrow bright green plain or meadow , which terminated abruptly at the shore . 
In these smaller valleys there were no streams , but they were clothed with the same luxuriant vegetation . 
The entire island was belted by a beach of pure white sand , on which laved the gentle ripples of the lagoon . 
The reef lay very low , and the spray of the surf broke quite over it in many places . 
The water within the lagoon , as before said , was perfectly still . 
At each of these openings the reef rose into two small green islets , covered with bushes and having one or two cocoa nut palms on each . 
These islets were very singular , and appeared as if planted expressly for the purpose of marking the channel into the lagoon . 
Our captain was making for one of these openings the day we were wrecked , and would have reached it too , I doubt not , had not the rudder been torn away . 
They seemed to be low coral islands , raised but little above the sea , yet covered with cocoa nut trees . 
All this we noted , and a great deal more , while we sat on the top of the mountain . 
After we had satisfied ourselves we prepared to return but here again we discovered traces of the presence of man . 
These were a pole or staff and one or two pieces of wood which had been squared with an axe . 
All of these were , however , very much decayed , and they had evidently not been touched for many years . 
Full of these discoveries we returned to our encampment . 
On the way we fell in with the traces of some four footed animal , but whether old or of recent date none of us were able to guess . 
After much discussion , in which Peterkin took the lead , we came to the conclusion that the island was uninhabited , and went to bed . 
Jack's ingenuity We get into difficulties about fishing , and get out of them by a method which gives us a cold bath Horrible encounter with a shark . 
There were various causes that induced this state of comparative inaction . 
Then there was a little uncertainty still as to there being natives on the island , and we entertained a kind of faint hope that a ship might come and take us off . 
But as day after day passed , and neither savages nor ships appeared , we gave up all hope of an early deliverance and set diligently to work at our homestead . 
During this time , however , we had not been altogether idle . 
We made several experiments in cooking the cocoa nut , most of which did not improve it . 
Then we removed our goods , and took up our abode in the cave , but found the change so bad that we returned gladly to the bower . 
Besides this we bathed very frequently , and talked a great deal at least Jack and Peterkin did , I listened . 
Among other useful things , Jack , who was ever the most active and diligent , converted about three inches of the hoop iron into an excellent knife . 
First he beat it quite flat with the axe . 
Then he made a rude handle , and tied the hoop iron to it with our piece of whip cord , and ground it to an edge on a piece of sand stone . 
However , the whip cord , thus set free , was used by Peterkin as a fishing line . 
He merely tied a piece of oyster to the end of it . 
This the fish were allowed to swallow , and then they were pulled quickly ashore . 
But as the line was very short and we had no boat , the fish we caught were exceedingly small . 
What say you to building a boat ? he inquired , looking up hastily . 
Take far too long , was the reply can't be bothered waiting . 
I want to begin at once ! Again Jack considered . 
I have it ! he cried . 
We'll fell a large tree and launch the trunk of it in the water , so that when you want to fish you've nothing to do but to swim out to it . 
Would not a small raft do better ? said I. Much better but we have no ropes to bind it together with . 
Perhaps we may find something hereafter that will do as well , but , in the meantime , let us try the tree . 
This was agreed on , so we started off to a spot not far distant , where we knew of a tree that would suit us , which grew near the water's edge . 
Then he paused , and , while he sat down to rest , I continued the work . 
Then Peterkin made a vigorous attack on it , so that when Jack renewed his powerful blows , a few minutes cutting brought it down with a terrible crash . 
Hurrah ! now for it , cried Jack let us off with its head . 
So saying he began to cut through the stem again , at about six yards from the thick end . 
With the levers , however , we rolled it slowly into the sea . 
Having been thus successful in launching our vessel , we next shaped the levers into rude oars or paddles , and then attempted to embark . 
This was easy enough to do but , after seating ourselves astride the log , it was with the utmost difficulty we kept it from rolling round and plunging us into the water . 
Not that we minded that much but we preferred , if possible , to fish in dry clothes . 
After half an hour's practice , we became expert enough to keep our balance pretty steadily . 
Then Peterkin laid down his paddle , and having baited his line with a whole oyster , dropt it into deep water . 
Now , then , Jack , said he , be cautious steer clear o' that sea weed . 
There that's it gently , now , gently . 
I see a fellow at least a foot long down there , coming to ha ! that's it ! Oh ! bother , he's off . 
Did he bite ? said Jack , urging the log onwards a little with his paddle . 
Bite ? ay ! He took it into his mouth , but the moment I began to haul he opened his jaws and let it out again . 
Let him swallow it next time , said Jack , laughing at the melancholy expression of Peterkin's visage . 
There he's again , cried Peterkin , his eyes flashing with excitement . 
Look out ! Now then ! No ! Yes ! No ! Why , the brute WON'T swallow it ! Try to haul him up by the mouth , then , cried Jack . 
A heavy sigh and a look of blank despair showed that poor Peterkin had tried and failed again . 
Never mind , lad , said Jack , in a voice of sympathy we'll move on , and offer it to some other fish . 
Got him this time , that's a fact ! cried Peterkin , hauling in the line . 
He's swallowed the bait right down to his tail , I declare . 
Oh what a thumper ! As the fish came struggling to the surface , we leaned forward to see it , and overbalanced the log . 
We soon recovered our position , and sat more warily , while Peterkin secured the fish , which had well nigh escaped in the midst of our struggles . 
Now , while we were thus intent upon our sport , our attention was suddenly attracted by a ripple on the sea , just a few yards away from us . 
Peterkin shouted to us to paddle in that direction , as he thought it was a big fish , and we might have a chance of catching it . 
Peterkin instantly hauled up the line and , grasping his paddle , exerted himself to the utmost , while we also did our best to make for shore . 
But we were a good way off , and the log being , as I have before said , very heavy , moved but slowly through the water . 
We now saw the shark quite distinctly swimming round and round us , its sharp fin every now and then protruding above the water . 
Suddenly he shouted Look out ! there he comes ! and in a second we saw the monstrous fish dive close under us , and turn half over on his side . 
But we all made a great commotion with our paddles , which no doubt frightened it away for that time , as we saw it immediately after circling round us as before . 
Throw the fish to him , cried Jack , in a quick , suppressed voice we'll make the shore in time yet if we can keep him off for a few minutes . 
Peterkin stopped one instant to obey the command , and then plied his paddle again with all his might . 
No sooner had the fish fallen on the water than we observed the shark to sink . 
In another moment his snout rose above the water , his wide jaws , armed with a terrific double row of teeth , appeared . 
The dead fish was engulfed , and the shark sank out of sight . 
But Jack was mistaken in supposing that it would be satisfied . 
In a very few minutes it returned to us , and its quick motions led us to fear that it would attack us at once . 
Stop paddling , cried Jack suddenly . 
I see it coming up behind us . 
Now , obey my orders quickly . 
Our lives may depend on it Ralph . 
Peterkin , do your best to BALANCE THE LOG . 
Don't look out for the shark . 
Do nothing but balance the log . 
For a few seconds , that seemed long minutes to my mind , we sat thus silently but I could not resist glancing backward , despite the orders to the contrary . 
I also saw the shark , to my horror , quite close under the log , in the act of darting towards Jack's foot . 
I could scarce suppress a cry on beholding this . 
In another moment the shark rose . 
Jack drew his leg suddenly from the water , and threw it over the log . 
The monster's snout rubbed against the log as it passed , and revealed its hideous jaws , into which Jack instantly plunged the paddle , and thrust it down its throat . 
So violent was the act that Jack rose to his feet in performing it the log was thereby rolled completely over , and we were once more plunged into the water . 
We all rose , spluttering and gasping , in a moment . 
Now then , strike out for shore , cried Jack . 
Here , Peterkin , catch hold of my collar , and kick out with a will . 
We were now forced to take to fishing again in the shallow water , until we should succeed in constructing a raft . 
What troubled us most , however , was , that we were compelled to forego our morning swimming excursions . 
We had also become expert divers . 
But we made it a rule never to stay long under water at a time . 
Jack told me that to do so often was bad for the lungs , and , instead of affording us enjoyment , would ere long do us a serious injury . 
So we never stayed at the bottom as long as we might have done , but came up frequently to the top for fresh air , and dived down again immediately . 
I used often to wonder how poor Peterkin would have liked to be with us and he sometimes expressed much regret at being unable to join us . 
Now , all this pleasure we were to forego , and when we thought thereon , Jack and I felt very much depressed in our spirits . 
I could see , also , that Peterkin grieved and sympathized with us , for , when talking about this matter , he refrained from jesting and bantering us upon it . 
And such a pool we afterwards found , which proved to be very much better than our most sanguine hopes anticipated . 
And the water was so clear and still , that , although very deep , you could see the minutest object at the bottom . 
But more of this hereafter . 
At any rate , it would be well to know of its existence . 
We had much earnest talk over this matter . 
Besides , said Jack , it won't do for us to live on cocoa nuts and oysters always . 
First rate ! cried Peterkin . 
You will make the bows , Jack , and I'll try my hand at the arrows . 
The fact is , I'm quite tired of throwing stones at the birds . 
I began the very day we landed , I think , and have persevered up to the present time , but I've never hit anything yet . 
You forget , said I , you hit me one day on the shin . 
Ah , true , replied Peterkin , and a precious shindy you kicked up in consequence . 
But you were at least four yards away from the impudent paroquet I aimed at so you see what a horribly bad shot I am . 
The day is pretty far advanced , and I doubt if I can make even one bow before dark . 
To be sure I might work by fire light , after the sun goes down . 
But now that we had a desire to work at night , we felt a wish for candles . 
Won't a good blazing fire give you light enough ? inquired Peterkin . 
Yes , replied Jack , quite enough but then it will give us a great deal more than enough of heat in this warm climate of ours . 
True , said Peterkin I forgot that . 
Well , as you're always doing that at any rate , remarked Jack , we could scarcely call it a change . 
But the fact is , I've been thinking over this subject before . 
You see , I forget the description . 
Ah ! that's just the way with me , said Peterkin with a deep sigh . 
I never could keep in my mind for half an hour the few descriptions I ever attempted to remember . 
The very first voyage I ever made was caused by my mistaking a description , or forgetting it , which is the same thing . 
And a horrible voyage it was . 
Perhaps not , but it's true , notwithstanding , returned Peterkin , pretending to be hurt at my doubting his word . 
Let us hear how it happened , said Jack , while a good natured smile overspread his face . 
You see I was young then , Ralph . 
So I had to run the whole way . 
When I reached the pier , there were so many masts , and so much confusion , that I felt quite humblebumbled in my faculties . 
'Now , said I to myself , 'Peterkin , you're in a fix . 
Three masts , yes , that must be it , and the gilt figure head of Hercules . 
To be sure it had a three pronged pitchfork in its hand instead of a club but that might be my uncle's mistake or perhaps Hercules sometimes varied his weapons . 
'Cast off ! roared a voice from the quarter deck . 
'Hold on ! cried I , rushing frantically through the crowd . 
'Hold on ! hold on ! repeated some of the bystanders , while the men at the ropes delayed for a minute . 
This threw the captain into a frightful rage for some of his friends had come down to see him off , and having his orders contradicted so flatly was too much for him . 
However , the delay was sufficient . 
I took a race and a good leap the ropes were cast off the steam tug gave a puff , and we started . 
'New 'Prentice , said he , stamping , 'I've got no new 'prentice . 
My boys are all aboard already . 
This is a trick , you young blackguard . 
Besides , it was blowin' fresh outside the harbour , so that , to have let the steamer alongside to put me into it was no easy job . 
'No I haven't , said I , angrily for the box was by no means a light one . 
So , you see , Ralph , that I really did swim my first homeward voyage . 
Jack laughed and patted Peterkin on the shoulder . 
But tell us about the candle nut tree , said I you were talking about it . 
Very true , said Jack , but I fear I can remember little about it . 
I believe the nut is about the size of a walnut and I think that the leaves are white , but I am not sure . 
Eh ! ha ! hum ! exclaimed Peterkin , I saw a tree answering to that description this very day . 
Did you ? cried Jack . 
Is it far from this ? No , not half a mile . 
Then lead me to it , said Jack , seizing his axe . 
In a few minutes we were all three pushing through the underwood of the forest , headed by Peterkin . 
We soon came to the tree in question , which , after Jack had closely examined it , we concluded must be the candle nut tree . 
Its leaves were of a beautiful silvery white , and formed a fine contrast to the dark green foliage of the surrounding trees . 
We immediately filled our pockets with the nuts , after which Jack said , Now , Peterkin , climb that cocoa nut tree and cut me one of the long branches . 
The leaf or branch was a very large one , and we were surprised at its size and strength . 
When I call this substance cloth I do not exaggerate . 
This cloth , I say , was remarkably like to coarse brown cotton cloth . 
It had a seam or fibre down the centre of it , from which diverged other fibres , about the size of a bristle . 
When we regarded it attentively , we could with difficulty believe that it had not been woven by human hands . 
Jack now took one of the leaflets , and , cutting out the central spine or stalk , hurried back with it to our camp . 
Having made a small fire , he baked the nuts slightly , and then pealed off the husks . 
After this he wished to bore a hole in them , which , not having anything better at hand at the time , he did with the point of our useless pencil case . 
Now lads , said Jack , extinguishing our candle , the sun will set in an hour , so we have no time to lose . 
So saying he shouldered his axe and went off , followed by Peterkin , while I took up the piece of newly discovered cloth , and fell to examining its structure . 
So engrossed was I in this that I was still sitting in the same attitude and occupation when my companions returned . 
I told you so ! cried Peterkin , with a loud laugh . 
Oh , Ralph , you're incorrigible . 
See , there's a club for you . 
Thank you , Peterkin , said I. It was kind of you to do that , instead of scolding me for a lazy fellow , as I confess I deserve . 
I intend to appropriate the bow for my own use , said Jack , chipping the piece of wood he had brought with his axe . 
I used to be a pretty fair shot once . 
I'm going to enlist into the Lancers , answered Peterkin . 
You see , Jack , I find the club rather an unwieldy instrument for my delicately formed muscles , and I flatter myself I shall do more execution with a spear . 
Well , if length constitutes power , said Jack , you'll certainly be invincible . 
That's a very good idea , said I. Which this ? inquired Peterkin , pointing to the spear . 
And , now I think of it , I'll change my plan , too . 
I don't think much of a club , so I'll make me a sling out of this piece of cloth . 
I used to be very fond of slinging , ever since I read of David slaying Goliath the Philistine , and I was once thought to be expert at it . 
So I set to work to manufacture a sling . 
For a long time we all worked very busily without speaking . 
At length Peterkin looked up I say , Jack , I'm sorry to say I must apply to you for another strip of your handkerchief , to tie on this rascally head with . 
It's pretty well torn at any rate , so you won't miss it . 
Jack proceeded to comply with this request when Peterkin suddenly laid his hand on his arm and arrested him . 
Hist , man , said he , be tender you should never be needlessly cruel if you can help it . 
Do try to shave past Lord Nelson's mouth without tearing it , if possible ! Thanks . 
There are plenty more handkerchiefs on the cocoa nut trees . 
It seemed to come from the sea , but was so far away that we could not clearly distinguish its precise direction . 
Rushing out of our bower , we hastened down to the beach and stayed to listen . 
Again it came quite loud and distinct on the night air , a prolonged , hideous cry , something like the braying of an ass . 
The moon had risen , and we could see the islands in and beyond the lagoon quite plainly , but there was no object visible to account for such a cry . 
A strong gust of wind was blowing from the point whence the sound came , but this died away while we were gazing out to sea . 
What can it be ? said Peterkin , in a low whisper , while we all involuntarily crept closer to each other . 
Do you know , said Jack , I have heard that mysterious sound twice before , but never so loud as to night . 
Indeed it was so faint that I thought I must have merely fancied it , so , as I did not wish to alarm you , I said nothing about it . 
We listened for a long time for the sound again , but as it did not come , we returned to the bower and resumed our work . 
Very strange , said Peterkin , quite gravely . 
Do you believe in ghosts , Ralph ? No , I answered , I do not . 
Nevertheless I must confess that strange , unaccountable sounds , such as we have just heard , make me feel a little uneasy . 
What say you to it , Jack ? I neither believe in ghosts nor feel uneasy , he replied . 
I certainly can't imagine what THAT sound is but I'm quite sure I shall find out before long , and if it's a ghost I'll Eat it , cried Peterkin . 
Yes , I'll eat it ! Now , then , my bow and two arrows are finished so if you're ready we had better turn in . 
A feathered arrow without a barb , said he , is a good weapon , but a barbed arrow without feathers is utterly useless . 
The string of the bow was formed of our piece of whip cord , part of which , as he did not like to cut it , was rolled round the bow . 
And it was well we did so , for we found that our arms were very imperfect , and that we were far from perfect in the use of them . 
First , Jack found that the bow was much too strong , and he had to thin it . 
Also the spear was much too heavy , and so had to be reduced in thickness , although nothing would induce Peterkin to have it shortened . 
My sling answered very well , but I had fallen so much out of practice that my first stone knocked off Peterkin's hat , and narrowly missed making a second Goliath of him . 
However , after having spent the whole day in diligent practice , we began to find some of our former expertness returning at least Jack and I did . 
We laughed at Jack for this , but we were both convinced that it did us much good . 
Prepare for a journey round the island Sagacious reflections Mysterious appearances and startling occurrences . 
Our breakfast was also despatched without loss of time , and in less than an hour afterwards all our preparations for the journey were completed . 
In addition to his ordinary dress , Jack tied a belt of cocoa nut cloth round his waist , into which he thrust the axe . 
However , he took it with him , and , in this manner we set out upon our travels . 
The morning was exceeding lovely . 
It was one of that very still and peaceful sort which made the few noises that we heard seem to be QUIET noises . 
I know no other way of expressing this idea . 
Noises which so far from interrupting the universal tranquillity of earth , sea , and sky rather tended to reveal to us how quiet the world around us really was . 
We felt very glad in our hearts as we walked along the sands side by side . 
For my part , I felt so deeply overjoyed , that I was surprised at my own sensations , and fell into a reverie upon the causes of happiness . 
My reader must not suppose that I thought all this in the clear and methodical manner in which I have set it down here . 
I have said that Peterkin walked along the sands between us . 
We had two ways of walking together about our island . 
When we travelled through the woods , we always did so in single file , as by this method we advanced with greater facility , the one treading in the other's footsteps . 
In such cases Jack always took the lead , Peterkin followed , and I brought up the rear . 
We were now fairly started . 
We were about to commence the exploration of this valley , when Peterkin stopped us , and directed our attention to a very remarkable appearance in advance along the shore . 
As he spoke , there appeared a white column above the rocks , as if of steam or spray . 
It rose upwards to a height of several feet , and then disappeared . 
There was therefore no lagoon between , and the heavy surf of the ocean beat almost up to the rocks . 
But this white column appeared about fifty yards inland . 
The rocks at the place were rugged , and they stretched across the sandy beach into the sea . 
We were now quite sure that the columns were watery or composed of spray , but what caused them we could not guess , so we determined to go and see . 
In a few minutes we gained the spot , which was very rugged and precipitous , and , moreover , quite damp with the falling of the spray . 
We had much ado to pass over dry shod . 
The ground also was full of holes here and there . 
We sprang to one side , but not before a cloud of spray descended , and drenched us both to the skin . 
Peterkin , who was standing farther off , escaped with a few drops , and burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughter on beholding our miserable plight . 
Peterkin now shrieked with laughter but his merriment was abruptly put a stop to by the gurgling noise occurring close to where he stood . 
Where'll it spout this time , I wonder ? he said , looking about with some anxiety , and preparing to run . 
What's to be done now ? inquired Peterkin ruefully . 
Make a fire , lad , and dry ourselves , replied Jack . 
And here is material ready to our hand , said I , picking up a dried branch of a tree , as we hurried up to the woods . 
In about an hour after this mishap our clothes were again dried . 
At any rate , we could not conceive any other reason for these strange water spouts , and as this seemed a very simple and probable one , we forthwith adopted it . 
I say , Ralph , what's that in the water ? is it a shark ? said Jack , just as we were about to quit the place . 
I immediately ran to the overhanging ledge of rock , from which he was looking down into the sea , and bent over it . 
There I saw a very faint pale object of a greenish colour , which seemed to move slightly while I looked at it . 
It's like a fish of some sort , said I. Hallo , Peterkin ! cried Jack , fetch your spear here's work for it . 
But when we tried to reach the object , the spear proved to be too short . 
There , now , said Peterkin with a sneer , you were always telling me it was too long . 
Very odd , said Jack . 
I was very much perplexed at this strange appearance in the water , and could not get it out of my mind for a long time afterwards . 
However , I quieted myself by resolving that I would pay a visit to it again at some more convenient season . 
OUR examination of the little valley proved to be altogether most satisfactory . 
We found in it not only similar trees to those we had already seen in our own valley , but also one or two others of a different species . 
Also we found a large supply of yams , and another root like a potato in appearance . 
Long afterwards we found out that this island of ours was no better in these respects than thousands of other islands in those seas . 
Indeed , many of them were much richer and more productive but that did not render us the less grateful for our present good fortune . 
We each put one of these roots in our pocket , intending to use them for our supper of which more hereafter . 
We also saw many beautiful birds here , and traces of some four footed animal again . 
Meanwhile the sun began to descend , so we returned to the shore , and pushed on round the spouting rocks into the next valley . 
This was that valley of which I have spoken as running across the entire island . 
It was by far the largest and most beautiful that we had yet looked upon . 
Some trees were dark glossy green , others of a rich and warm hue , contrasting well with those of a pale light green , which were everywhere abundant . 
Oh ! it was a most enchanting scene , and I thanked God for having created such delightful spots for the use of man . 
And what's a banian tree ? inquired Peterkin , as we walked towards it . 
A very curious one , as you shall see presently , replied Jack . 
It is called the AOA here , if I recollect rightly , and has a wonderful peculiarity about it . 
What an enormous one it is , to be sure . 
And , sure enough , we did find that what we had supposed was a forest of trees was in reality only one . 
Its bark was of a light colour , and had a shining appearance , the leaves being lance shaped , small , and of a beautiful pea green . 
In short , it seemed to us that , if there were only space afforded to it , this single tree would at length cover the whole island . 
Shortly after this we came upon another remarkable tree , which , as its peculiar formation afterwards proved extremely useful to us , merits description . 
It was a splendid chestnut , but its proper name Jack did not know . 
However , there were quantities of fine nuts upon it , some of which we put in our pockets . 
But its stem was the wonderful part of it . 
In short , they were just natural buttresses , without which the stem could not have supported its heavy and umbrageous top . 
We found these chestnuts to be very numerous . 
They grew chiefly on the banks of the stream , and were of all sizes . 
While we were examining a small tree of this kind , Jack chipped a piece off a buttress with his axe , and found the wood to be firm and easily cut . 
We now wended our way back to the coast , intending to encamp near the beach , as we found that the mosquitoes were troublesome in the forest . 
On our way we could not help admiring the birds which flew and chirped around us . 
The hues of many of these birds were extremely vivid , bright green , blue , and scarlet , being the prevailing tints . 
But we invariably missed , although once or twice we were very near hitting . 
As evening drew on , however , a flock of pigeons flew past . 
I slung a stone into the midst of them at a venture , and had the good fortune to kill one . 
We were startled , soon after , by a loud whistling noise above our heads and on looking up , saw a flock of wild ducks making for the coast . 
These all with one accord flew tumultuously away the instant we made our appearance . 
While walking along the margin we observed fish in the water , but of what sort we could not tell . 
But we did not find the ducks , although we made a diligent search for half an hour . 
We were about to retrace our steps , when we were arrested by one of the strangest sights that we had yet beheld . 
Just in front of us , at the distance of about ten yards , grew a superb tree , which certainly was the largest we had yet seen on the island . 
This fruit seemed to be of the plum species , of an oblong form , and a good deal larger than the magnum bonum plum . 
I'll try to put an arrow into yon little pig . 
Don't you think we had better put them up first ? I whispered it seems cruel to kill them while asleep . 
If I wanted SPORT , Ralph , I would certainly set them up but as we only want PORK , we'll let them lie . 
Besides , we're not sure of killing them so , fire away . 
At the same instant Jack's bow twanged , and the arrow pinned the little pig to the ground by the ear . 
That's very provoking , now , said Jack , rubbing the point of his nose . 
Very , I replied , stroking my chin . 
Well , we must make haste and rejoin Peterkin , said Jack . 
And , without further remark , we threaded our way quickly through the woods towards the shore . 
When Greek meets Greek , said Jack , soliloquizing , then comes the tug of Hurrah ! shouted Peterkin in the distance . 
Look here Jack ! cried Peterkin , as he disengaged the animal from his spear . 
Do you recognise that hole ? said he , pointing to the pig's ear and are you familiar with this arrow , eh ? Well , I declare ! said Jack . 
Very likely , replied Jack . 
From all we have seen , I'm inclined to think that some of the savages must have dwelt here long ago . 
We found no small difficulty in making up our minds how we were to cook the pig . 
At last Jack started up and said , Don't let us waste more time talking about it , boys . 
Hold it up , Peterkin . 
Now the other , that's it . 
The wood pigeon was then split open , quite flat , washed clean in salt water , and treated in a similar manner . 
While these were cooking , we scraped a hole in the sand and ashes under the fire , into which we put our vegetables , and covered them up . 
The taro root was of an oval shape , about ten inches long and four or five thick . 
It was of a mottled gray colour , and had a thick rind . 
We found it somewhat like an Irish potato , and exceedingly good . 
The yam was roundish , and had a rough brown skin . 
It was very sweet and well flavoured . 
Nevertheless , we felt remarkably strong and well , and much disposed to have our breakfast . 
First , however , we had our customary morning bathe , which refreshed us greatly . 
I have often wondered very much in after years that the inhabitants of my own dear land did not make more frequent use of this most charming element , water . 
I mean in the way of cold bathing . 
Of late years , since retiring from the stirring life of adventure which I have led so long in foreign climes , I have heard of a system called the cold water cure . 
Now , I do not know much about that system , so I do not mean to uphold it , neither do I intend to run it down . 
Perhaps , in reference to it , I may just hint that there may be too much of a good thing . 
But , to return from this digression , for which I humbly crave forgiveness . 
On hearing the sound , Peterkin instantly threw forward his spear . 
Now , what can it be ? said he , looking round at Jack . 
It comes from one of these islands , said Jack . 
It must be the ghost of a jackass , then , said Peterkin , for I never heard anything so like . 
We all turned our eyes towards the cluster of islands , where , on the largest , we observed curious objects moving on the shore . 
Soldiers they are , that's flat ! cried Peterkin , gazing at them in the utmost amazement . 
And , in truth , Peterkin's remark seemed to me to be correct for , at the distance from which we saw them , they appeared to be an army of soldiers . 
There they stood , rank and file , in lines and in squares , marching and countermarching , with blue coats and white trousers . 
At this remark Jack laughed and said , Why , Peterkin , they are penguins ! Penguins ? repeated Peterkin . 
So , then , our dreadful yelling ghosts and our murdering army of soldiers , remarked Peterkin , have dwindled down to penguins , big sea birds ! Very good . 
Then I propose that we continue our journey as fast as possible , lest our island should be converted into a dream before we get completely round it . 
But by degrees these thoughts left me , and I began to be much taken up again with the interesting peculiarities of the country which we were passing through . 
I will not here note so particularly all that we said and saw during the course of this second day , as we did not make any further discoveries of great importance . 
The shore along which we travelled , and the various parts of the woods through which we passed , were similar to those which have been already treated of . 
So near to the sea , too , did this useful tree grow , that in many places its roots were washed by the spray from the breakers . 
Yet we found the trees growing thus on the sands to be quite as luxuriant as those growing in the valleys , and the fruit as good and refreshing also . 
We found several more droves of hogs in the woods , but abstained from killing any of them , having more than sufficient for our present necessities . 
We saw also many of their foot prints in this neighbourhood . 
Among these we also observed the footprints of a smaller animal , which we examined with much care , but could form no certain opinion as to them . 
Peterkin thought they were those of a little dog , but Jack and I thought differently . 
But everywhere the creeping plants and tangled bushes crossed our path , so that we forced our way along with some difficulty . 
Suddenly , as we came upon an open space , we heard a faint cry , and observed a black animal standing in the track before us . 
To our surprise the wild cat did not fly , but walked slowly towards the arrow , and snuffed at it . 
That's the most comical wild cat I ever saw ! cried Jack . 
It's a tame wild cat , I think , said Peterkin , levelling his spear to make a charge . 
Stop ! cried I , laying my hand on his shoulder I do believe the poor beast is blind . 
See , it strikes against the branches as it walks along . 
It must be a very old one and I hastened towards it . 
Then it sprang round , and , putting up its back and tail , while the black hair stood all on end , uttered a hoarse mew and a fuff . 
Poor thing , said Peterkin , gently extending his hand , and endeavouring to pat the cat's head . 
It's no more a wild cat than I am ! cried Peterkin , taking it in his arms . 
While we were fondling the cat and talking about it , Jack glanced round the open space in the midst of which we stood . 
Hallo ! exclaimed he this looks something like a clearing . 
The axe has been at work here . 
Just look at these tree stumps . 
No human foot prints were to be seen , either on the track or among the bushes but those of the cat were found everywhere . 
About ten yards farther on , the felled trees became more numerous , and the track , diverging to the right , followed for a short space the banks of a stream . 
I cannot hope to convey to my readers a very correct idea of the feelings that affected us on witnessing this unexpected sight . 
The hut or cottage was rude and simple in its construction . 
It was not more than twelve feet long by ten feet broad , and about seven or eight feet high . 
It had one window , or rather a small frame in which a window might , perhaps , once have been , but which was now empty . 
The door was exceedingly low , and formed of rough boards , and the roof was covered with broad cocoa nut and plantain leaves . 
But every part of it was in a state of the utmost decay . 
Moss and green matter grew in spots all over it . 
We observed that the latch was made of iron , and almost eaten away with rust . 
In the like condition were also the hinges , which creaked as the door swung back . 
On entering , we stood still and gazed around us , while we were much impressed with the dreary stillness of the room . 
But what we saw there surprised and shocked us not a little . 
There was no furniture in the apartment save a little wooden stool and an iron pot , the latter almost eaten through with rust . 
In the corner farthest from the door was a low bedstead , on which lay two skeletons , imbedded in a little heap of dry dust . 
With beating hearts we went forward to examine them . 
But we found nothing , neither a book nor a scrap of paper . 
We found , however , the decayed remnants of what appeared to have been clothing , and an old axe . 
Having no clue whatever to account for the presence of this poor human being in such a lonely spot , we fell to conjecturing what could have brought him there . 
But Jack thought it more likely that he had run away from his vessel , and had taken the dog and cat to keep him company . 
We were also much occupied in our minds with the wonderful difference between the cat and the dog . 
While we were thinking on these things , and examining into everything about the room , we were attracted by an exclamation from Peterkin . 
I say , Jack , said he , here is something that will be of use to us . 
What is it ? said Jack , hastening across the room . 
An old pistol , replied Peterkin , holding up the weapon , which he had just pulled from under a heap of broken wood and rubbish that lay in a corner . 
That , indeed , might have been useful , said Jack , examining it , if we had any powder but I suspect the bow and the sling will prove more serviceable . 
True , I forgot that , said Peterkin but we may as well take it with us , for the flint will serve to strike fire with when the sun does not shine . 
This put into our heads that we might as well pull it down , and so form a mound over the skeleton . 
Then we left the spot , having brought away the iron pot , the pistol , and the old axe , as they might be of much use to us hereafter . 
Something wrong with the tank Jack's wisdom and Peterkin's impertinence Wonderful behaviour of a crab Good wishes for those who dwell far from the sea Jack commences to build a little boat . 
REST is sweet as well for the body as for the mind . 
And the nature as well as the period of this rest varies , according to the different temperaments of individuals , and the peculiar circumstances in which they may chance to be placed . 
To those who work with their minds , bodily labour is rest . 
To those who labour with the body , deep sleep is rest . 
To the downcast , the weary , and the sorrowful , joy and peace are rest . 
There is , indeed , but one class of men to whom rest is denied . 
There is no rest to the wicked . 
Of this rest we stood much in need on our return home , and we found it exceedingly sweet , when we indulged in it , after completing the journey just related . 
It had not , indeed , been a very long journey , nevertheless we had pursued it so diligently that our frames were not a little prostrated . 
In this condition we remained all night and the whole of the following day without awaking once , or so much as moving our positions . 
When we did awake it was near sunset , and we were all in such a state of lassitude that we merely rose to swallow a mouthful of food . 
As Peterkin remarked , in the midst of a yawn , we took breakfast at tea time , and then went to bed again , where we lay till the following forenoon . 
After this we arose very greatly refreshed , but much alarmed lest we had lost count of a day . 
However , on considering the subject , we all three entertained the same opinion as to how long we had slept , and so our minds were put at ease . 
We now hastened to our Water Garden to enjoy a bathe , and to see how did the animals which I had placed in the tank . 
I say , Jack , cried Peterkin , waving his hand , come here , like a good fellow . 
Ralph is actually talking philosophy . 
I repeated my thoughts to Jack , who , I was happy to find , quite agreed with me . 
Your best plan , he said , will be to put very few animals at first into your tank , and add more as you find it will bear them . 
That water has evaporated so much that it is too salt for anything to live in . 
You will require to add FRESH water now and then , in order to keep it at the same degree of saltness as the sea . 
In fact make it a miniature Pacific . 
I don't see how you can hope to succeed unless you do that . 
Most true , said I , pondering what my companion said . 
But I fear that that will be very difficult . 
Then , there's lots of sea weed in the sea well , go and get one or two bits of sea weed , and put them into your tank . 
Of course the weed must be alive , and growing to little stones or you can chip a bit off the rocks with the weed sticking to it . 
Then , if you like , you can throw a little sand and gravel into your tank , and the thing's complete . 
But hallo ! what's this ? I say , Ralph , look here . 
There's one o' your crabs up to something uncommon . 
It was one of the common small crabs , like to those that are found running about everywhere on the coasts of England . 
It was also quite soft , but by next morning its skin had hardened into a good shell . 
We came thus to know that crabs grow in this way , and not by the growing of their shells , as we had always thought before we saw this wonderful operation . 
Here I saw the ceaseless working of those little coral insects whose efforts have encrusted the islands of the Pacific with vast rocks , and surrounded them with enormous reefs . 
Notable discovery at the spouting cliffs The mysterious green monster explained We are thrown into unutterable terror by the idea that Jack is drowned The Diamond Cave . 
COME , Jack , cried Peterkin , one morning about three weeks after our return from our long excursion , let's be jolly to day , and do something vigorous . 
I'm quite flat flat as bad ginger beer flat as a pancake in fact , I want something to rouse me , to toss me up , as it were . 
It's a thing I don't at all approve of , and if you don't give it up , I fear that , for our mutual good , we shall have to part . 
Well , then , Peterkin , replied Jack , with a smile , what would you have ? Have ? said Peterkin , I would HAVE nothing . 
I didn't say I wanted to HAVE I said that I wanted to DO . 
Perhaps it would be well to go for that purpose . 
Humph ! ejaculated Peterkin , I know the nature of it well enough . 
Well then , let us away to the water spouts , cried Jack , going up to the bower for his bow and arrows and bring your spear , Peterkin . 
Most remarkable ! said Jack . 
Exceedingly curious , said I. Beats everything ! said Peterkin . 
Now , Jack , he added , you made such a poor figure in your last attempt to stick that object , that I would advise you to let me try it . 
Fire away , then , my boy , replied Jack with a laugh . 
Peterkin immediately took the spear , poised it for a second or two above his head , then darted it like an arrow into the sea . 
I'm pretty sure now , said Jack , that it is merely a phosphoric light but I must say I'm puzzled at its staying always in that exact spot . 
I also was much puzzled , and inclined to think with Jack that it must be phosphoric light of which luminous appearance we had seen much while on our voyage to these seas . 
But , said I , there is nothing to hinder us from diving down to it , now that we are sure it is not a shark . 
True , returned Jack , stripping off his clothes I'll go down , Ralph , as I'm better at diving than you are . 
Now then , Peterkin , out o' the road ! Jack stepped forward , joined his hands above his head , bent over the rocks , and plunged into the sea . 
Oh , Peterkin ! I said , in a voice that trembled with increasing anxiety , something has happened . 
The intensity of my feelings almost bereft me of my senses . 
But I was recalled to myself by Peterkin seizing me by the shoulder and staring wildly into my face , while he exclaimed , Ralph ! Ralph ! perhaps he has only fainted . 
Dive for him , Ralph ! It seemed strange that this did not occur to me sooner . 
In another moment Jack's head rose to the surface , and he gave a wild shout , flinging back the spray from his locks , as was his wont after a dive . 
It was therefore with a feeling akin to superstitious awe that I held down my hand and assisted him to clamber up the steep rocks . 
But no such feeling affected Peterkin . 
No sooner did Jack gain the rocks and seat himself on one , panting for breath , than he threw his arms round his neck , and burst into a flood of tears . 
However , I knew what the poor fellow meant by it , so I smiled to him in return , and endeavoured to make believe that he was winking . 
For one instant I paused to think whether I ought to venture . 
Then I made up my mind , and dashed into it . 
I darted upwards , and found my head out of water . 
This relieved me greatly , for I now felt that I could take in air enough to enable me to return the way I came . 
The ceiling just above me was also visible , and I fancied that I could perceive beautiful glittering objects there , but the farther end of the cave was shrouded in darkness . 
When I returned , we had a long conversation about it , during which I observed that Peterkin had a most lugubrious expression on his countenance . 
What's the matter , Peterkin ? said I. The matter ? he replied . 
I'm very sorry for you , Peterkin , indeed I am , said Jack , but we cannot help you . 
If you would only learn to dive Learn to fly , you might as well say ! retorted Peterkin , in a very sulky tone . 
If you would only consent to keep still , said I , we would take you down with us in ten seconds . 
Then we advanced to the edge of the rocks , Jack carrying one bundle , with the torch I the other , with the things for producing fire . 
Farewell ! said Peterkin , coming up to us with a look of deep but pretended solemnity , while he shook hands and kissed each of us on the cheek . 
We both laughed , and , springing from the rocks together , plunged head first into the sea . 
This we did in order to let our eyes become accustomed to the obscurity . 
Then , when we could see sufficiently , we swam to a shelving rock , and landed in safety . 
Having wrung the water from our trousers , and dried ourselves as well as we could under the circumstances , we proceeded to ignite the torch . 
This we accomplished without difficulty in a few minutes and no sooner did it flare up than we were struck dumb with the wonderful objects that were revealed to our gaze . 
The roof of the cavern just above us seemed to be about ten feet high , but grew higher as it receded into the distance , until it was lost in darkness . 
It seemed to be made of coral , and was supported by massive columns of the same material . 
hung from it in various places . 
A good many drops fell , however , to the rock below , and these formed little cones , which rose to meet the points above . 
There were several openings on either hand in the walls , that seemed to lead into other caverns but these we did not explore at this time . 
We concluded , also , that the reflecting power of this rock was that which gave forth the dim light that faintly illumined the first part of the cave . 
I afterwards found that there were many such caverns among the islands of the South Seas , some of them larger and more beautiful than the one I have just described . 
Now , Ralph , are you ready ? said Jack , in a low voice , that seemed to echo up into the dome above . 
Come along , then , said he and , plunging off the ledge of the rock into the water , we dived through the narrow entrance . 
In a few seconds we were panting on the rocks above , and receiving the congratulations of our friend Peterkin . 
Strange peculiarity of the tides Also of the twilight Peterkin's remarkable conduct in embracing a little pig and killing a big sow Sage remarks on jesting Also on love . 
There was no help for it , however , so we condoled with him as we best could . 
This peculiarity of the tide its slight rise and fall had not attracted our observation till some time after our residence on the island . 
Neither had we observed another curious circumstance until we had been some time there . 
Every day and every night , at twelve o'clock precisely , the tide is at the full and at six o'clock every morning and evening it is ebb . 
I can speak with much confidence on this singular circumstance , as we took particular note of it , and never found it to alter . 
, and found the sudden outbursts of mirth , resulting from his humorous disposition , quite natural and refreshing to us in the midst of our more serious conversations . 
But I must not misrepresent Peterkin . 
We often found , to our surprise , that he knew many things which we did not and I also observed that those things which he learned from experience were never forgotten . 
And while I am on this subject , or rather the subject that just preceded it namely , the tides I may here remark on another curious natural phenomenon . 
We found that there was little or no twilight in this island . 
That's the ticket ! was Peterkin's remarkable exclamation , as he started convulsively , and levelled his spear . 
Hist ! cried Jack these are your friends , Peterkin . 
They must have come over expressly to pay you a friendly visit , for it is the first time we have seen them on this side the island . 
Come along ! cried Peterkin , hurrying towards the wood , while Jack and I followed , smiling at his impatience . 
Another grunt and half a dozen squeals , much louder than before , came down the valley . 
At this time we were just opposite the small vale which lay between the Valley of the Wreck and Spouting Cliff . 
I say , Peterkin , cried Jack , in a hoarse whisper . 
Well , what is't ? Stay a bit , man . 
These grunters are just up there on the hill side . 
Now , mind you pitch into a fat young pig , Peterkin , added Jack , as he sprang into the bushes . 
Won't I , just ! said Peterkin , licking his lips , as we took our station beside the cliff . 
I feel quite a tender affection for young pigs in my heart . 
Perhaps it would be more correct to say in my s . 
There they come ! cried I , as a terrific yell from Jack sent the whole herd screaming down the hill . 
No sooner was this reached than the little pig recovered its feet , tossed up its tail , and fled shrieking from the spot . 
But I slang a large stone after it , which , being fortunately well aimed , hit it behind the ear , and felled it to the earth . 
Capital , Ralph ! that's your sort ! cried Peterkin , who , to my surprise and great relief , had risen to his feet . 
Apparently unhurt , though much dishevelled , he rushed franticly towards the gorge , which the yells of the hogs told us they were now approaching . 
Suddenly they all burst forth , two or three little round ones in advance , and an enormous old sow with a drove of hogs at her heels . 
Now , Peterkin , said I , there's a nice little fat one just spear it . 
But Peterkin did not move he allowed it to pass unharmed . 
I looked at him in surprise , and saw that his lips were compressed and his eyebrows knitted , as if he were about to fight with some awful enemy . 
What is it ? I inquired , with some trepidation . 
Suddenly he levelled his spear , darted forward , and , with a yell that nearly froze the blood in my veins , stabbed the old sow to the heart . 
Hallo ! what's this ? said Jack , as he came up . 
Why , Peterkin , you must be fond of a tough chop . 
If you mean to eat this old hog , she'll try your jaws , I warrant . 
What possessed you to stick HER , Peterkin ? Why , the fact is I want a pair of shoes . 
What have your shoes to do with the old hog ? said I , smiling . 
My present shoes have certainly nothing to do with her , replied Peterkin nevertheless she will have a good deal to do with my future shoes . 
The fact is , when I saw you floor that pig so neatly , Ralph , it struck me that there was little use in killing another . 
We now considered how we were to carry our game home , for , although the distance was short , the hog was very heavy . 
At length we hit on the plan of tying its four feet together , and passing the spear handle between them . 
Jack took one end on his shoulder , I took the other on mine , and Peterkin carried the small pig . 
Thus we returned in triumph to our bower , laden , as Peterkin remarked , with the glorious spoils of a noble hunt . 
Boat building extraordinary Peterkin tries his hand at cookery and fails most signally The boat finished Curious conversation with the cat , and other matters . 
FOR many days after this Jack applied himself with unremitting assiduity to the construction of our boat , which at length began to look somewhat like one . 
He was of , that disposition which WILL not be conquered . 
When he believed himself to be acting rightly , he overcame all obstacles . 
I have already mentioned the chestnut tree with its wonderful buttresses or planks . 
This tree , then , furnished us with the chief part of our material . 
This placed , he procured three branching roots of suitable size , which he fitted to the keel at equal distances , thus forming three strong ribs . 
We were , indeed , much perplexed here but Jack at length devised an instrument that served very well . 
He took the remainder of our hoop iron and beat it into the form of a pipe or cylinder , about as thick as a man's finger . 
This he did by means of our axe and the old rusty axe we had found at the house of the poor man at the other side of the island . 
This , when made red hot , bored slowly though the timbers and , the better to retain the heat , Jack shut up one end of it and filled it with sand . 
True , the work was very slowly done , but it mattered not we had little else to do . 
Two holes were bored in each timber , about an inch and a half apart , and also down into the keel , but not quite through . 
The gunwales , which were very stout , were fixed in a similar manner . 
This husk was very tough , and when a number of the threads were joined together they formed excellent cordage . 
Of course it cost us much time and infinite labour , but Jack kept up our spirits when we grew weary , and so all that we required was at last constructed . 
Planks were now cut off the chestnut trees of about an inch thick . 
These were dressed with the axe , but clumsily , for an axe is ill adapted for such work . 
Having no nails to rivet the planks with , we threw aside the ordinary fashion of boat building and adopted one of our own . 
The planks were therefore placed on each other's edges , and sewed together with the tough cordage already mentioned . 
They were also thus sewed to the stem , the stern , and the keel . 
Through these holes the cord was passed , and , when tied , formed a powerful stitch of three ply . 
I may add that our hopes were not disappointed . 
On these occasions we took the bow and the sling , with both of which we were often successful , though I must confess I was the least so . 
Our suppers were thus pleasantly varied , and sometimes we had such a profusion spread out before us that we frequently knew not with which of the dainties to begin . 
The large flat stone , or rock of coral , which stood just in front of the entrance to our bower , was our table . 
These luxurious feasts were usually washed down with cocoa nut lemonade . 
For he had a great will to become a cook , but could by no means find a way to accomplish that end . 
But Jack had wrought hard and said nothing , in order to surprise us . 
My dear fellow , cried Peterkin , you're a perfect trump . 
With all my heart , said Peterkin , exchanging the axe for his hoop iron knife , with which he cut off the desired portion . 
Ralph , lad , why don't you laugh ? eh ? he added turning suddenly to me with a severe look of inquiry . 
Well , but , continued Peterkin , I was talking of a sail to morrow . 
Very good , said Peterkin , tossing a lump of pork to the cat , who received it with a mew of satisfaction . 
I'll help you , if I can . 
We listened intently , and still heard the sound of a voice as if in conversation . 
Jack motioned me to be silent , and , advancing to the bower on tip toe , we peeped in . 
The sight that met our gaze was certainly not a little amusing . 
At the moment we saw him he was gazing intently into the cat's face , with his nose about four inches from it , his hands being thrust into his breeches pockets . 
Do you hear me ? cried Peterkin , sharply . 
I love you I do . 
Don't you love me ? To this touching appeal the cat said Mew , faintly . 
You're a jolly old rascal . 
Very good , continued Peterkin , quite true , I have no doubt but you've no right to interrupt me , sir . 
Hold your tongue till I have done speaking . 
At this point Jack burst into a loud fit of laughter . 
After supper we retired to rest and to dream of wonderful adventures in our little boat , and distant voyages upon the sea . 
IT was a bright , clear , beautiful morning , when we first launched our little boat and rowed out upon the placid waters of the lagoon . 
Not a breath of wind ruffled the surface of the deep . 
Not a cloud spotted the deep blue sky . 
The sun was just rising from the Pacific's ample bosom and tipping the mountain tops with a red glow . 
At first , in the strength of our delight , we rowed hither and thither without aim or object . 
But after the effervescence of our spirits was abated , we began to look about us and to consider what we should do . 
I vote that we row to the reef , cried Peterkin . 
And I vote that we visit the islands within the lagoon , said I. And I vote we do both , cried Jack , so pull away , boys . 
As I have already said , we had made four oars , but our boat was so small that only two were necessary . 
The extra pair were reserved in case any accident should happen to the others . 
It was therefore only needful that two of us should row , while the third steered , by means of an oar , and relieved the rowers occasionally . 
First we landed on one of the small islands and ran all over it , but saw nothing worthy of particular notice . 
Then we landed on a larger island , on which were growing a few cocoa nut trees . 
Not having eaten anything that morning , we gathered a few of the nuts and breakfasted . 
After this we pulled straight out to sea and landed on the coral reef . 
This was indeed a novel and interesting sight to us . 
This huge , ceaseless breaker , to which I have so often alluded , was a much larger and more sublime object than we had at all imagined it to be . 
It rose many yards above the level of the sea , and could be seen approaching at some distance from the reef . 
Slowly and majestically it came on , acquiring greater volume and velocity as it advanced , until it assumed the form of a clear watery arch , which sparkled in the bright sun . 
In many places the coral rocks were covered with vegetation , the beginning , as it appeared to us , of future islands . 
Thus , on this reef , we came to perceive how most of the small islands of those seas are formed . 
On one part we saw the spray of the breaker washing over the rocks , and millions of little , active , busy creatures continuing the work of building up this living rampart . 
They had faithfully completed the mighty work which their Creator had given them to do , and they were now all dead . 
Again , in other spots the ceaseless lashing of the sea had broken the dead coral in pieces , and cast it up in the form of sand . 
Again at this time Jack and I pondered the formation of the large coral islands . 
We could now understand how the low ones were formed , but the larger islands cost us much consideration , yet we could arrive at no certain conclusion on the subject . 
Having satisfied our curiosity and enjoyed ourselves during the whole day , in our little boat , we returned , somewhat wearied , and , withal , rather hungry , to our bower . 
Now , said Jack , as our boat answers so well , we will get a mast and sail made immediately . 
So we will , cried Peterkin , as we all assisted to drag the boat above high water mark we'll light our candle and set about it this very night . 
Hallo ! cried Jack , on seeing this . 
Our keel will be worn off in no time at this rate . 
So it will , said I , pondering deeply as to how this might be prevented . 
It seems to me , Jack , I added , that it is impossible to prevent the keel being worn off thus . 
Impossible ! cried Peterkin , my dear Ralph , you are mistaken , there is nothing so easy How ? I inquired , in some surprise . 
Why , by not using the boat at all ! replied Peterkin . 
Hold your impudent tongue , Peterkin , said Jack , as he shouldered the oars , come along with me and I'll give you work to do . 
Very well , continued Jack then you'll help Ralph to collect cocoa nut cloth , and cut it into shape , after which we'll make a sail of it . 
I'll see to getting the mast and the gearing so let's to work . 
Jack had also overcome the difficulty about the keel , by pinning to it a FALSE keel . 
This was a piece of tough wood , of the same length and width as the real keel , and about five inches deep . 
The mast and sail answered excellently and we now sailed about in the lagoon with great delight , and examined with much interest the appearance of our island from a distance . 
Also , we gazed into the depths of the water , and watched for hours the gambols of the curious and bright coloured fish among the corals and sea weed . 
Peterkin also made a fishing line , and Jack constructed a number of hooks , some of which were very good , others remarkably bad . 
Some of these hooks were made of iron wood , which did pretty well , the wood being extremely hard , and Jack made them very thick and large . 
Fish there are not particular . 
Some of the crooked bones in fish heads also answered for this purpose pretty well . 
But that which formed our best and most serviceable hook was the brass finger ring belonging to Jack . 
It gave him not a little trouble to manufacture it . 
First he cut it with the axe then twisted it into the form of a hook . 
The barb took him several hours to cut . 
He did it by means of constant sawing with the broken pen knife . 
As for the point , an hour's rubbing on a piece of sandstone made an excellent one . 
Among the fish that we saw , but did not catch , were porpoises and sword fish , whales and sharks . 
The porpoises came frequently into our lagoon in shoals , and amused us not a little by their bold leaps into the air , and their playful gambols in the sea . 
The sword fish were wonderful creatures some of them apparently ten feet in length , with an ivory spear , six or eight feet long , projecting from their noses . 
We often saw them darting after other fish , and no doubt they sometimes killed them with their ivory swords . 
As for the whales , they never came into our lagoon , but we frequently saw them spouting in the deep water beyond the reef . 
I shall never forget my surprise the first day I saw one of these huge monsters close to me . 
We were just in time to see a shower of spray falling , and the flukes or tail of some monstrous fish disappear in the sea a few hundred yards off . 
We waited some time to see if he would rise again . 
Jack , however , suggested a cause which seemed to me very probable . 
We used often to see water spouts in the sea . 
A water spout is a whirling body of water , which rises from the sea like a sharp pointed pillar . 
This often happens over the land as well as over the sea and it sometimes does much damage , but frequently it passes gently away . 
Now , Jack thought that the little fish might perhaps have been carried up in a water spout , and so sent down again in a shower of rain . 
But we could not be certain as to this point yet we thought it likely . 
During these delightful fishing and boating excursions we caught a good many eels , which we found to be very good to eat . 
We also found turtles among the coral rocks , and made excellent soup in our iron kettle . 
Very true , said I there is nothing I desire so much as to have a closer inspection of them . 
Stay at home ? cried Peterkin my dear fellow , you would certainly lose your way , or get upset , if I were not there to take care of you . 
Ah , true , said Jack , gravely , that did not occur to me no doubt you must go . 
Our boat does require a good deal of ballast and all that you say , Peterkin , carries so much weight with it , that we won't need stones if you go . 
Now , while my companions were talking , a notable event occurred , which , as it is not generally known , I shall be particular in recording here . 
While we were talking , as I have said , we noticed a dark line , like a low cloud or fog bank , on the seaward horizon . 
Gradually , however , this line seemed to draw nearer , without spreading up over the sky , as would certainly have been the case if it had been a storm cloud . 
Still nearer it came , and soon we saw that it was moving swiftly towards the island but there was no sound till it reached the islands out at sea . 
This led us to conjecture that the approaching object was an enormous wave of the sea but we had no idea how large it was till it came near to ourselves . 
Owing to this formation , the wave reached the reef at the latter point before it struck at the foot of Spouting Cliff . 
The instant it touched the reef we became aware , for the first time , of its awful magnitude . 
As its crest reared before us , we felt that we were in great danger , and turned to flee but we were too late . 
It seemed to us as if the earth had been blown up with water . 
We were stunned and confused by the shock , and so drenched and blinded with spray , that we knew not for a few moments whither to flee for shelter . 
Our hearts sank within us as we thought of this , and we hastened round through the woods towards our home . 
It may have been washed up into the woods , said Jack , hurrying up the beach as he spoke . 
It was no easy matter , however , to get it out of the bush and down to the sea again . 
This cost us two days of hard labour to accomplish . 
I heard this stated by the missionaries during my career in those seas . 
They could not tell me whether it visited all of the islands , but I was certainly assured that it occurred periodically in some of them . 
After we had got our home put to rights and cleared of the DEBRIS of the inundation , we again turned our thoughts to paying the penguins a visit . 
The boat was therefore overhauled and a few repairs done . 
Then we prepared a supply of provisions , for we intended to be absent at least a night or two , perhaps longer . 
Once , indeed , a more serious accident happened to him . 
He had been out all morning alone and did not return at the usual time to dinner . 
We wondered at this , for Peterkin was always very punctual at the dinner hour . 
As supper time drew near we began to be anxious about him , and at length sallied forth to search the woods . 
After we had carried him home he related to as how the thing had happened . 
'Ho , ho , said I , 'there you go , my boys and I hurried up the glen . 
I soon started them , and singling out a fat pig , ran tilt at him . 
In a few seconds I was up with him , and stuck my spear right through his dumpy body . 
I remembered nothing more after that , till I came to my senses and found you bathing my temples , and Ralph wringing his hands over me . 
I , also , was successful in my visit to the mud flats , where I killed several ducks . 
So that , when we launched and loaded our boat at sunrise the following morning , we found our store of provisions to be more than sufficient . 
Large ducks and two small ones , raw . 
Cold roast pigs , with stuffing . 
I may here remark that the stuffing had been devised by Peterkin specially for the occasion . 
However , as Peterkin remarked , it was better to have too much than too little , as we knew not to what straits we might be put during our voyage . 
I wish we had a breeze , said Jack . 
So do I , cried Peterkin , resting on his oar and wiping his heated brow pulling is hard work . 
But , I say , it seems that my wish is going to be granted , for here comes a breeze . 
Ship your oar , Peterkin . 
Up with the mast , Ralph I'll see to the sail . 
There go the soldiers ! cried Peterkin as we came in sight of it how spruce their white trousers look , this morning ! I wonder if they will receive us kindly . 
D'you think they are hospitable , Jack ? Don't talk , Peterkin , but pull away , and you shall see shortly . 
As we drew near to the island we were much amused by the manoeuvres and appearance of these strange birds . 
We also saw a huge albatross soaring above the heads of the penguins . 
It was followed and surrounded by numerous flocks of sea gulls . 
We now saw that their soldier like appearance was owing to the stiff , erect manner in which they sat on their short legs , Bolt up right , as Peterkin expressed it . 
They had black heads , long sharp beaks , white breasts , and bluish backs . 
There were no quills on these wings , but a sort of scaly feathers which also thickly covered their bodies . 
walking in the midst of the penguins . 
Pull in a bit , cried Peterkin , and let's see what these are . 
They must be fond of noisy company , to consort with such creatures . 
That beats everything , said Peterkin , rubbing his nose , and screwing up his face with an expression of exasperated amazement . 
There were several others , we observed , burdened in the same way and we found afterwards that these were a species of penguins that always carried their eggs so . 
Indeed , they had a most convenient cavity for the purpose , just between the tail and the legs . 
We were very much impressed with the regularity and order of this colony . 
Some were hatching their eggs , but others were feeding their young ones in a manner that caused us to laugh not a little . 
The mother stood on a mound or raised rock , while the young one stood patiently below her on the ground . 
Suddenly the mother raised her head and uttered a series of the most discordant cackling sounds . 
She's going to choke , cried Peterkin . 
But this was not the case , although , I confess , she looked like it . 
In a few seconds she put down her head and opened her mouth , into which the young one thrust its beak and seemed to suck something from her throat . 
Now , just look yonder ! said Peterkin , in an excited tone if that isn't the most abominable piece of maternal deception I ever saw . 
That rascally old lady penguin has just pitched her young one into the sea , and there's another about to follow her example . 
We observed many of them employed in doing this , and we came to the conclusion that this is the way in which old penguins teach their children to swim . 
Scarcely had we finished making our remarks on this , when we were startled by about a dozen of the old birds hopping in the most clumsy and ludicrous manner towards the sea . 
The instant they reached the water , however , they seemed to be in their proper element . 
I vote for landing , so pull in , lads , said Jack , giving a stroke with his oar that made the boat spin . 
But this proved to be a resolute old bird . 
It would not retreat nay , more , it would not cease to advance , but battled with Peterkin bravely and drove him before it until it reached the sea . 
An awful storm and its consequences Narrow escape A rock proves a sure foundation A fearful night and a bright morning Deliverance from danger . 
IT was evening before we left the island of the penguins . 
But a danger was in store for us which we had not anticipated . 
We shall at least have the shelter of the bushes , he said , as the boat flew before the wind , and the penguins will keep us company . 
What made matters worse was , that the gale came in squalls , so that we were more than once nearly upset . 
Stand by , both of you , cried Jack , in a quick , earnest tone be ready to dowse the sail . 
I very much fear we won't make the island after all . 
We had , therefore , never doubted for a moment that all was going well , so that it was with no little anxiety that we heard him make the above remark . 
This I soon baled out , while Peterkin again hoisted a corner of the sail but the evil which Jack had feared came upon us . 
We found it quite impossible to make Penguin Island . 
In the midst of this distress Jack uttered an exclamation of hope , and pointed towards a low island or rock which lay directly ahead . 
It had been hitherto unobserved , owing to the dark clouds that obscured the sky and the blinding spray that seemed to fill the whole atmosphere . 
As we neared this rock we observed that it was quite destitute of trees and verdure , and so low that the sea broke completely over it . 
Show a little bit more sail , cried Jack , as we swept past the weather side of the rock with fearful speed . 
Ay , ay , answered Peterkin , hoisting about a foot more of our sail . 
Out your oars now , lads that's well done . 
Give way ! We obeyed instantly . 
The oars splashed into the waves together . 
One good hearty pull , and we were floating in a comparatively calm creek that was so narrow as to be barely able to admit our boat . 
But , although I have said we were now in safety , I suspect that few of my readers would have envied our position . 
Now , boys , cried Jack , bestir yourselves , and let's make ourselves comfortable . 
Toss out our provisions , Peterkin and here , Ralph , lend a hand to haul up the boat . 
Ay , ay , captain , we cried , as we hastened to obey , much cheered by the hearty manner of our comrade . 
Fortunately the cave , although not very deep , was quite dry , so that we succeeded in making ourselves much more comfortable than could have been expected . 
But as night drew on , our spirits sank again , for with the daylight all evidence of our security vanished away . 
We could no longer see the firm rock on which we lay , while we were stunned with the violence of the tempest that raged around us . 
In order to prevent this latter calamity , we hauled the boat farther up and held the cable in our hands . 
Occasional flashes of lightning shone with a ghastly glare through the watery curtains around us , and lent additional horror to the scene . 
Yet we longed for those dismal flashes , for they were less appalling than the thick blackness that succeeded them . 
For three days and three nights we remained on this rock , while the storm continued to rage with unabated fury . 
It was late and the moon and stars were shining brightly when we arrived opposite the bower and leaped upon the strand . 
Shoemaking The even tenor of our way suddenly interrupted An unexpected visit and an appalling battle We all become warriors , and Jack proves himself be a hero . 
FOR many months after this we continued to live on our island in uninterrupted harmony and happiness . 
Peterkin , as I have said before , was thirteen years of age , Jack eighteen , and I fifteen . 
But Jack was very tall , strong , and manly for his age , and might easily have been mistaken for twenty . 
The hogs , too , seemed rather to increase than diminish , although Peterkin was very frequent in his attacks on them with his spear . 
We employed ourselves very busily during this time in making various garments of cocoa nut cloth , as those with which we had landed were beginning to be very ragged . 
This done , he bored a row of holes all round the edge of the piece of skin , through which a tough line was passed . 
Into the sewed up part of this shoe he thrust his heel , then , drawing the string tight , the edges rose up and overlapped his foot all round . 
Diving in the Water Garden also continued to afford us as much pleasure as ever and Peterkin began to be a little more expert in the water from constant practice . 
Whereupon Jack remarked , that if he , Peterkin , were changed into a fish , he would certainly turn into nothing better or bigger than a shrimp . 
Peterkin did feel envious then , and often said he would give anything to be able to do that . 
What are yon , think you ? I said , addressing Jack . 
They seem to be coming towards us , said I. Hallo ! what's wrong ? inquired Peterkin , coming up . 
Look there , said Jack . 
Whales ! cried Peterkin , shading his eyes with his hand . 
No ! eh ! can they be boats , Jack ? Our hearts beat with excitement at the very thought of seeing human faces again . 
I noticed that a shade of anxiety crossed Jack's countenance as he gazed long and intently at the two objects , which were now nearing us fast . 
At last he sprang to his feet . 
We must hide if they land here , which I earnestly hope they will not do . 
How unfortunate , said I , as we gained the shelter of the bushes , that we have forgotten our arms . 
It matters not , said Jack here are clubs enough and to spare . 
We each selected a stout club according to our several tastes , and lay down behind a rock , whence we could see the canoes approach , without ourselves being seen . 
They seemed to be about the same in number , but were better armed , and had the appearance of being a war party . 
Both crews were paddling with all their might , and it seemed as if the pursuers exerted themselves to overtake the natives ere they could land . 
In this , however , they failed . 
The foremost canoe made for the beach close beneath the rocks behind which we were concealed . 
Their short paddles flashed like meteors in the water , and sent up a constant shower of spray . 
The distance between the two canoes had been about half a mile , and , at the great speed they were going , this was soon passed . 
As the pursuers neared the shore , no sign of fear or hesitation was noticeable . 
On they came like a wild charger , received but recked not of a shower of stones . 
The canoe struck , and , with a yell that seemed to issue from the throats of incarnate fiends , they leaped into the water , and drove their enemies up the beach . 
The battle that immediately ensued was frightful to behold . 
Most of the men wielded clubs of enormous size and curious shapes , with which they dashed out each other's brains . 
I observed that the attacking party was led by a most extraordinary being , who , from his size and peculiarity , I concluded was a chief . 
His hair was frizzed out to an enormous extent , so that it resembled a large turban . 
He was tattooed from head to foot and his face , besides being tattooed , was besmeared with red paint , and streaked with white . 
Altogether , with his yellow turban like hair , his Herculean black frame , his glittering eyes and white teeth , he seemed the most terrible monster I ever beheld . 
He was very active in the fight , and had already killed four men . 
Suddenly the yellow haired chief was attacked by a man quite as strong and large as himself . 
He flourished a heavy club something like an eagle's beak at the point . 
This was the turning point in the battle . 
The savages who landed first turned and fled towards the bush , on seeing the fall of their chief . 
They were all overtaken and felled to the earth . 
I saw , however , that they were not all killed . 
Here they left them , for what purpose I knew not , and returned to the scene of the late battle , where the remnant of the party were bathing their wounds . 
Out of the forty blacks that composed the attacking party , only twenty eight remained alive , two of whom were sent into the bush to hunt for the women and children . 
Of the other party , as I have said , only ten survived , and these were lying bound and helpless on the grass . 
When the fire was kindled , two of the party went again to the woods and returned with one of the bound men . 
A dreadful feeling of horror crept over my heart , as the thought flashed upon me that they were going to burn their enemies . 
As they bore him to the fire my feelings almost overpowered me . 
I gasped for breath , and seizing my club , endeavoured to spring to my feet but Jack's powerful arm pinned me to the earth . 
Next moment one of the savages raised his club , and fractured the wretched creature's skull . 
Scarcely had his limbs ceased to quiver when the monsters cut slices of flesh from his body , and , after roasting them slightly over the fire , devoured them . 
She and her companions wore short petticoats and a kind of tippet on their shoulders . 
Their hair was jet black , but instead of being long , was short and curly , though not woolly somewhat like the hair of a young boy . 
While we gazed with interest and some anxiety at these poor creatures , the big chief advanced to one of the elder females and laid his hand upon the child . 
But the mother shrank from him , and clasping the little one to her bosom , uttered a wail of fear . 
With a savage laugh , the chief tore the child from her arms and tossed it into the sea . 
A low groan burst from Jack's lips as we witnessed this atrocious act and heard the mother's shriek , as she fell insensible on the sand . 
The girl made no answer to his fierce questions , and we saw by the way in which he pointed to the fire that he threatened her life . 
Peterkin , said Jack in a hoarse whisper , have you got your knife ? Yes , replied Peterkin , whose face was pale as death . 
Listen to me , and do my bidding quick . 
Here is the small knife , Ralph . 
Fly both of you through the bush , cut the cords that bind the prisoners and set them free . 
There ! quick , ere it be too late . 
Jack sprang up , and seized a heavy but short bludgeon , while his strong frame trembled with emotion , and large drops rolled down his forehead . 
At this moment the man who had butchered the savage a few minutes before advanced towards the girl with his heavy club . 
Jack uttered a yell that rang like a death shriek among the rocks . 
Had they doubted it , they would have probably ended the matter at once by felling him . 
But they contented themselves with awaiting the issue . 
The force which the chief expended in wielding his club now began to be apparent . 
His movements became slower , his breath hissed through his clenched teeth , and the surprised savages drew nearer in order to render assistance . 
He felt that his fate was sealed , and resolved to cast his life upon the next blow . 
The chiefs club was again about to descend on his head . 
A dozen clubs flew high in air ready to descend on the head of Jack , but they hesitated a moment , for the massive body of the chief completely covered him . 
That moment saved his life . 
We could never have accomplished this had not our enemies been so engrossed with the fight between Jack and their chief that they had failed to observe us until we were upon them . 
They still out numbered our party by three , but we were flushed with victory while they were taken by surprise and dispirited by the fall of their chief . 
Intercourse with the savages Cannibalism prevented The slain are buried and the survivors depart , leaving us again alone on our Coral Island . 
by the hand and shook it warmly . 
No sooner did the blacks see that this was meant to express good will than they shook hands with us all round . 
Dropping the chief's hand he hastened towards it , and , to his great joy , found it to be still alive . 
We also found that the mother was beginning to recover slowly . 
Here , get out o' the way , said Jack , pushing us aside , as we stooped over the poor woman and endeavoured to restore her , I'll soon bring her round . 
So saying , he placed the infant on her bosom and laid its warm cheek on hers . 
There , that's all right , said Jack , once more taking the chief by the hand . 
Now Ralph and Peterkin , make the women and these fellows follow me to the bower . 
Well entertain them as hospitably as we can . 
Meanwhile , we three being thoroughly knocked up with our day's work , took a good draught of cocoa nut lemonade , and throwing ourselves on our beds fell fast asleep . 
The savages it seems followed our example , and in half an hour the whole camp was buried in repose . 
How long we slept I cannot tell , but this I know , that when we lay down the sun was setting and when we awoke it was high in the heavens . 
I awoke Jack , who started up in surprise , being unable at first to comprehend our situation . 
Now , then , said he , springing up , let's see after breakfast . 
Hallo ! Peterkin , lazy fellow , how long do you mean to lie there ? Peterkin yawned heavily . 
Well ! said he , opening his eyes and looking up after some trouble , if it isn't to morrow morning , and me thinking it was to day all this time . 
Hallo ! Venus , where did you come from ? you seem tolerably at home , any how . 
Bah ! might as well speak to the cat as to you better , in fact , for it understands me , and you don't . 
By this time the natives outside were all astir , and breakfast in an advanced state of preparation . 
During the course of it we made sundry attempts to converse with the natives by signs , but without effect . 
At last we hit upon a plan of discovering their names . 
Jack pointed to his breast and add Jack , very distinctly then he pointed to Peterkin and to me , repeating our names at the same time . 
Then he pointed to himself again , and said Jack , and laying his finger on the breast of the chief , looked inquiringly into his face . 
The chief instantly understood him and said Tararo , twice , distinctly . 
Jack repeated it after him , and the chief , nodding his head approvingly , said Chuck . 
What can that mean , I wonder , said Jack , looking puzzled . 
Perhaps , said Peterkin , the chief means she is an angel come down to stay here for a while . 
If so , she's an uncommonly black one ! We did not feel quite satisfied with this explanation , so Jack went up to her and said , Avatea . 
The woman smiled sadly , and nodded her head , at the same time pointing to her breast and then to the sun , in the same manner as the chief had done . 
We were much puzzled to know what this could signify , but as there was no way of solving our difficulty we were obliged to rest content . 
Jack now made signs to the natives to follow him , and , taking up his axe , he led them to the place where the battle had been fought . 
They did not seem the worse for their exposure , however , as we judged by the hearty appetite with which they devoured the breakfast that was soon after given to them . 
The body of the yellow haired chief was the last thrown in . 
We knew at once that he intended to make use of this for food , and could not repress a cry of horror and disgust . 
Come , come , you blackguard , cried Jack , starting up and seizing the man by the arm , pitch that into the hole . 
Nevertheless he did not obey . 
Jack instantly turned to Tararo and made signs to him to enforce obedience . 
Stop ! he shouted , you blockhead , I don't want you to kill the man . 
He then pointed again to the flesh and to the hole . 
The chief uttered a few words , which had the desired effect for the man threw the flesh into the hole , which was immediately filled up . 
This man was of a morose , sulky disposition , and , during all the time he remained on the island , regarded us , especially Jack , with a scowling visage . 
His name , we found , was Mahine . 
The next three or four days were spent by the savages in mending their canoe , which had been damaged by the violent shock it had sustained on striking the shore . 
This canoe was a very curious structure . 
It was about thirty feet long , and had a high towering stern . 
This we found was intended to prevent the upsetting of the canoe , which was so narrow that it could not have maintained an upright position without the out rigger . 
We could not help wondering both at the ingenuity and the clumsiness of this contrivance . 
When the canoe was ready , we assisted the natives to carry the prisoners into it , and helped them to load it with provisions and fruit . 
Peterkin also went to the plum tree for the purpose of making a special onslaught upon the hogs , and killed no less than six of them . 
These we baked and presented to our friends on the day of their departure . 
We also gave him a piece of wood with our names carved on it , and a piece of string to hang it round his neck as an ornament . 
In a few minutes more we were all assembled on the beach . 
Avatea was the last to take leave of us , and we experienced a feeling of real sorrow when she approached to bid us farewell . 
Besides her modest air and gentle manners she was the only one of the party who exhibited the smallest sign of regret at parting from us . 
Going up to Jack , she put out her flat little nose to be rubbed , and thereafter paid the same compliment to Peterkin and me . 
Sagacious and moral remarks in regard to life A sail ! An unexpected salute The end of the black cat A terrible dive An incautious proceeding and a frightful catastrophe . 
LIFE is a strange compound . 
And indeed the more I consider it the more I am struck with the strange mixture of good and evil that exists not only in the material earth but in our own natures . 
In our own Coral Island we had experienced every variety of good that a bountiful Creator could heap on us . 
After these poor savages had left us , we used to hold long and frequent conversations about them , and I noticed that Peterkin's manner was now much altered . 
But indeed I was not surprised at this , when I reflected on the awful realities which we had witnessed so lately . 
Peterkin was sunning himself on the ledge of rock , while we were creeping among the rocks below . 
Happening to look up , I observed Peterkin cutting the most extraordinary capers and making violent gesticulations for us to come up so I gave Jack a push , and rose immediately . 
So it is , and a schooner , too ! said Jack , as he proceeded hastily to dress . 
In less than an hour she was close to the reef , where she rounded to , and backed her topsails in order to survey the coast . 
With feelings of terror we now observed that the flag at the schooner's peak was black , with a Death's head and cross bones upon it . 
As we gazed at each other in blank amazement , the word pirate escaped our lips simultaneously . 
What is to be done ? cried Peterkin , as we observed a boat shoot from the vessel's side , and make for the entrance of the reef . 
If they take us off the island , it will either be to throw us overboard for sport , or to make pirates of us . 
I did not reply , but looked at Jack , as being our only resource in this emergency . 
He stood with folded arms , and his eyes fixed with a grave , anxious expression on the ground . 
There is but one hope , said he , turning with a sad expression of countenance to Peterkin perhaps , after all , we may not have to resort to it . 
If these villains are anxious to take us , they will soon overrun the whole island . 
But come , follow me . 
Stopping abruptly in his speech , Jack bounded into the woods , and led us by a circuitous route to Spouting Cliff . 
Here he halted , and , advancing cautiously to the rocks , glanced over their edge . 
We were soon by his side , and saw the boat , which was crowded with armed men , just touching the shore . 
In an instant the crew landed , formed line , and rushed up to our bower . 
In a few seconds we saw them hurrying back to the boat , one of them swinging the poor cat round his head by the tail . 
On reaching the water's edge , he tossed it far into the sea , and joined his companions , who appeared to be holding a hasty council . 
You see what we may expect , said Jack bitterly . 
The man who will wantonly kill a poor brute for sport will think little of murdering a fellow creature . 
Now , boys , we have but one chance left , the Diamond Cave . 
The Diamond Cave ! cried Peterkin , then my chance is a poor one , for I could not dive into it if all the pirates on the Pacific were at my heels . 
Nay , but , said I , we will take you down , Peterkin , if you will only trust us . 
As I spoke , we observed the pirates scatter over the beach , and radiate , as if from a centre , towards the woods and along shore . 
Oh , Jack , my dear friend , cried Peterkin , turning pale , leave me I don't believe they'll think it worth while to kill me . 
Go , you and Ralph , and dive into the cave . 
That will not I , answered Jack quietly , while he picked up a stout cudgel from the ground . 
So now , Ralph , we must prepare to meet these fellows . 
Their motto is , 'No quarter . 
If we can manage to floor those coming in this direction , we may escape into the woods for a while . 
There are five of them , said I we have no chance . 
Come , then , cried Peterkin , starting up , and grasping Jack convulsively by the arm , let us dive I will go . 
But there was no alternative . 
The pirates had already caught sight of us , and were now within a short distance of the rocks . 
Jack and I seized Peterkin by the arms . 
Now , keep quite still , no struggling , said Jack , or we are lost . 
Just as the pirates gained the foot of the rocks , which hid us for a moment from their view , we bent over the sea , and plunged down together head foremost . 
Peterkin behaved like a hero . 
Peterkin drew a long , deep breath on reaching the surface and in a few seconds we were all standing on the ledge of rock in safety . 
Jack now searched for the tinder and torch , which always lay in the cave . 
He soon found them , and , lighting the torch , revealed to Peterkin's wondering gaze the marvels of the place . 
But we were too wet to waste much time in looking about us . 
Our first care was to take off our clothes , and wring them as dry as we could . 
Perhaps , said Peterkin , they may take it into their heads to stop here altogether , and so we shall be buried alive in this place . 
Don't you think , Peterkin , that it's the nearest thing to being drowned alive that you ever felt ? said Jack with a smile . 
But I've no fear of that . 
These villains never stay long on shore . 
The sea is their home , so you may depend upon it that they won't stay more than a day or two at the furthest . 
We now began to make arrangements for spending the night in the cavern . 
Little did we imagine that the first savages who would drive us into it would be white savages , perhaps our own countrymen . 
We found the cocoa nuts in good condition , and the cooked yams , but the bread fruits were spoiled . 
Having collected it all together , we spread out our bed , placed our torch in the midst of us , and ate our supper . 
We sat long over our meal , talking together in subdued voices , for we did not like the dismal echoes that rang through the vault above when we happened to raise them . 
At last the faint light that came through the opening died away , warning us that it was night and time for rest . 
We therefore put out our torch and lay down to sleep . 
We saw by the faint light that it was day , but could not guess at the hour so Jack proposed that he should dive out and reconnoitre . 
No , Jack , said I , do you rest here . 
You've had enough to do during the last few days . 
Rest yourself now , and take care of Peterkin , while I go out to see what the pirates are about . 
I'll be very careful not to expose myself , and I'll bring you word again in a short time . 
The pirates will be sure to keep a sharp lookout , said Peterkin , so , pray , be careful . 
No fear , said I good bye . 
Good bye , answered my comrades . 
And while the words were yet sounding in my ears , I plunged into the water , and in a few seconds found myself in the open air . 
No pirates were to be seen , even their boat was gone but as it was possible they might have hidden themselves , I did not venture too boldly forward . 
He was a white man , that is to say , he was a man of European blood , though his face , from long exposure to the weather , was deeply bronzed . 
His dress was that of a common seaman , except that he had on a Greek skull cap , and wore a broad shawl of the richest silk round his waist . 
In this shawl were placed two pair of pistols and a heavy cutlass . 
He wore a beard and moustache , which , like the locks on his head , were short , curly , and sprinkled with gray hairs . 
Now , you whelp , look yonder . 
As he spoke , the pirate uttered a shrill whistle . 
In a second or two it was answered , and the pirate boat rowed round the point at the Water Garden , and came rapidly towards us . 
I obeyed in silence , and as I happened to have the burning glass in my pocket , a fire was speedily kindled , and a thick smoke ascended into the air . 
But there was no use of regret now . 
I was completely in their power , so I stood helplessly beside the pirate watching the crew of the boat as they landed on the beach . 
There was a good deal of jesting at the success of their scheme , as the crew ascended the rocks and addressed the man who had captured me by the title of captain . 
They were a ferocious set of men , with shaggy beards and scowling brows . 
All of them were armed with cutlasses and pistols , and their costumes were , with trifling variations , similar to that of the captain . 
But where are the other cubs ? cried one of the men , with an oath that made me shudder . 
I'll swear to it there were three , at least , if not more . 
You hear what he says , whelp where are the other dogs ? said the captain . 
If you mean my companions , said I , in a low voice , I won't tell you . 
A loud laugh burst from the crew at this answer . 
The pirate captain looked at me in surprise . 
Then drawing a pistol from his belt , he cocked it and said , Now , youngster , listen to me . 
I've no time to waste here . 
Suddenly a thought occurred to me . 
Villain , said I , shaking my clenched fist in his face , to blow my brains out would make short work of me , and be soon over . 
Say you so ? cried he , uttering a fierce oath . 
But my hopes were suddenly blasted by the captain crying out , Hold on , lads , hold on . 
We'll give him a taste of the thumb screws before throwing him to the sharks . 
Away with him into the boat . 
Look alive ! the breeze is freshening . 
Rising hastily I clambered up the side . 
I was surprised to find that there were no guns or carronades of any kind in the vessel , which had more of the appearance of a fast sailing trader than a pirate . 
But I was struck with the neatness of everything . 
The brass work of the binnacle and about the tiller , as well as the copper belaying pins , were as brightly polished as if they had just come from the foundry . 
The decks were pure white , and smooth . 
The masts were clean scraped and varnished , except at the cross trees and truck , which were painted black . 
The standing and running rigging was in the most perfect order , and the sails white as snow . 
There was nothing lumbering or unseemly about the vessel , excepting , perhaps , a boat , which lay on the deck with its keel up between the fore and main masts . 
As I have before said , the costumes of the men were similar to that of the captain . 
I observed that all their arms were sent below the captain only retaining his cutlass and a single pistol in the folds of his shawl . 
This look was , however , the indication of that spirit which gave him the pre eminence among the crew of desperadoes who called him captain . 
I don't allow any such weakness aboard o' this ship . 
So clap a stopper on your eyes or I'll give you something to cry for . 
I thought you were made of better stuff , continued the captain , angrily I'd rather have a mad bull dog aboard than a water eyed puppy . 
But I'll cure you , lad , or introduce you to the sharks before long . 
Now go below , and stay there till I call you . 
As I walked forward to obey , my eye fell on a small keg standing by the side of the main mast , on which the word GUNPOWDER was written in pencil . 
It immediately flashed across me that , as we were beating up against the wind , anything floating in the sea would be driven on the reef encircling the Coral Island . 
I also recollected for thought is more rapid than the lightning that my old companions had a pistol . 
Until you do so I'm dumb ! The captain stepped back and regarded me with a look of amazement . 
I hope that it will reach them soon , and my only regret is that the keg was not a bigger one . 
Bloody Bill , there , was just such a fellow as you are , and he's now the biggest cut throat of us all . 
Take a can of beer , lad , cried another , and wet your whistle after that speech o' your'n to the captain . 
If any one o' us had made it , youngster , he would have had no whistle to wet by this time . 
Stop your clapper , Jack , vociferated a third give the boy a junck o' meat . 
Don't you see he's a'most goin' to kick the bucket ? And no wonder , said the first speaker , with an oath , after the tumble you gave him into the boat . 
I guess it would have broke YOUR neck if you had got it . 
The man who had been alluded to as Bloody Bill was seated near me , and I could not help wondering at the moody silence he maintained among his comrades . 
He did indeed reply to their questions in a careless , off hand tone , but he never volunteered a remark . 
The only difference between him and the others was his taciturnity and his size , for he was nearly , if not quite , as large a man as the captain . 
Look alive , said Bloody Bill , raising his huge frame from the locker on which he had been asleep for the last two hours . 
He sprang up the ladder and I instantly followed him , and , going aft , was shown into the cabin by one of the men , who closed the door after me . 
A small silver lamp which hung from a beam threw a dim soft light over the cabin , which was a small apartment , and comfortably but plainly finished . 
Boy , said he , looking me full in the face , what is your name ? Ralph Rover , I replied . 
I never tell lies , said I , firmly . 
The captain received this reply with a cold sarcastic smile , and bade me answer his questions . 
After I had concluded , he was silent for a few minutes then , looking up , he said Boy , I believe you . 
I was surprised at this remark , for I could not imagine why he should not believe me . 
However , I made no reply . 
The captain frowned as I spoke , but subduing his anger he continued Boy , you are too bold . 
I admit that we treated you roughly , but that was because you made us lose time and gave us a good deal of trouble . 
As to the black flag , that is merely a joke that my fellows play off upon people sometimes in order to frighten them . 
It is their humour , and does no harm . 
You see I'm in want of an honest boy like you , to look after the cabin and keep the log , and superintend the traffic on shore sometimes . 
I would even now take you back , but we are too far away from it . 
See , there it is , he added , laying his finger on the chart , and we are now here , fifty miles at least . 
It would not be fair to my men to put about now , for they have all an interest in the trade . 
Bloody Bill Dark surmises A strange sail , and a strange crew , and a still stranger cargo New reasons for favouring missionaries A murderous massacre , and thoughts thereon . 
THREE weeks after the conversation narrated in the last chapter , I was standing on the quarter deck of the schooner watching the gambols of a shoal of porpoises that swam round us . 
It was a dead calm . 
No cloud floated in the deep blue above no ripple broke the reflected blue below . 
The sun shone fiercely in the sky , and a ball of fire blazed , with almost equal power , from out the bosom of the water . 
An awning covered the fore and after parts of the schooner , under which the men composing the watch on deck lolled in sleepy indolence , overcome with excessive heat . 
In one of these turns he came near to where I was standing , and , leaning over the side , looked long and earnestly down into the blue wave . 
This man , although he was always taciturn and often surly , was the only human being on board with whom I had the slightest desire to become better acquainted . 
The other men , seeing that I did not relish their company , and knowing that I was a protege of the captain , treated me with total indifference . 
Bloody Bill , it is true , did the same but as this was his conduct towards every one else , it was not peculiar in reference to me . 
Once or twice I tried to draw him into conversation , but he always turned away after a few cold monosyllables . 
Besides , I'm weary of spending day after day in this way , without a single soul to say a pleasant word to . 
I've been used to friendly conversation , Bill , and I really would take it kind if you would talk with me a little now and then . 
Bill looked at me in surprise , and I thought I observed a sad expression pass across his sun burnt face . 
Boy , boy , said Bill , in a voice so deep that it startled me , this is no place for you . 
Free ? said Bill , looking at me in surprise . 
Yes , free , returned I the captain said he would put me ashore after this trip was over . 
Where , away ? cried Bill , springing to the tiller while the men , startled by the sudden cry jumped up and gazed round the horizon . 
On the starboard quarter , hull down , sir , answered the look out . 
At this moment the captain came on deck , and mounting into the rigging , surveyed the sail through the glass . 
Then sweeping his eye round the horizon he gazed steadily at a particular point . 
Take in top sails , shouted the captain , swinging himself down on the deck by the main back stay . 
Take in top sails , roared the first mate . 
Ay , ay , sir r r , answered the men as they sprang into the rigging and went aloft like cats . 
Instantly all was bustle on board the hitherto quiet schooner . 
In a few seconds it struck us . 
She evidently did not like our appearance , for , the instant the breeze reached her , she crowded all sail and showed us her stern . 
When within a mile we hoisted British colours , but receiving no acknowledgment , the captain ordered a shot to be fired across her bows . 
In a moment , to my surprise , a large portion of the bottom of the boat amidships was removed , and in the hole thus exposed appeared an immense brass gun . 
It worked on a swivel and was elevated by means of machinery . 
It was quickly loaded and fired . 
The heavy ball struck the water a few yards ahead of the chase , and , ricochetting into the air , plunged into the sea a mile beyond it . 
This produced the desired effect . 
The strange vessel backed her top sails and hove to , while we ranged up and lay to , about a hundred yards off . 
Lower the boat , cried the captain . 
In a second the boat was lowered and manned by a part of the crew , who were all armed with cutlasses and pistols . 
As the captain passed me to get into it , he said , jump into the stern sheets , Ralph , I may want you . 
I obeyed , and in ten minutes more we were standing on the stranger's deck . 
We were all much surprised at the sight that met our eyes . 
Instead of a crew of such sailors as we were accustomed to see , there were only fifteen blacks standing on the quarter deck and regarding us with looks of undisguised alarm . 
They were totally unarmed and most of them unclothed one or two , however , wore portions of European attire . 
One had on a pair of duck trousers which were much too large for him and stuck out in a most ungainly manner . 
Another wore nothing but the common scanty native garment round the loins , and a black beaver hat . 
Where's the commander of this ship ? inquired our captain , stepping up to this individual . 
I is capin , he answered , taking off his straw hat and making a low bow . 
You ! said our captain , in surprise . 
We is native miss'nary ship our name is de OLIVE BRANCH an' our cargo is two tons cocoa nuts , seventy pigs , twenty cats , and de Gosp'l . 
I am very glad to have fallen in with you , said he , and I wish you much success in your missionary labours . 
Pray take me to your cabin , as I wish to converse with you privately . 
The missionary immediately took him by the hand , and as he led him away I heard him saying , Me most glad to find you trader we t'ought you be pirate . 
You very like one 'bout the masts . 
In a few minutes the OLIVE BRANCH was left far behind us . 
That afternoon , as I was down below at dinner , I heard the men talking about this curious ship . 
I wonder , said one , why our captain looked so sweet on yon swallow tailed super cargo o' pigs and Gospels . 
If it had been an ordinary trader , now , he would have taken as many o' the pigs as he required and sent the ship with all on board to the bottom . 
Why , Dick , you must be new to these seas if you don't know that , cried another . 
Ay , said a man with a deep scar over his right eye , Dick's new to the work . 
But if the captain takes us for a cargo o' sandal wood to the Feejees he'll get a taste o' these black gentry in their native condition . 
Captain wants you , aft . 
On coming again on deck I found Bloody Bill at the helm , and as we were alone together I tried to draw him into conversation . 
The black flag you saw flying at the peak was no deception . 
But you'll find it out soon enough . 
As for the missionaries , the captain favours them because they are useful to him . 
The South Sea islanders are such incarnate fiends that they are the better of being tamed , and the missionaries are the only men who can do it . 
Our track after this lay through several clusters of small islets , among which we were becalmed more than once . 
Our precautions against the savages I found were indeed necessary . 
One day we were becalmed among a group of small islands , most of which appeared to be uninhabited . 
As we were in want of fresh water the captain sent the boat ashore to bring off a cask or two . 
Don't fire , he shouted , angrily . 
Pull off to the point ahead of you . 
The men looked surprised at this order , and uttered deep curses as they prepared to obey , for their wrath was roused and they burned for revenge . 
Three or four of them hesitated , and seemed disposed to mutiny . 
Don't distress yourselves , lads , said the mate , while a bitter smile curled his lip . 
The captain's not the man to take an insult tamely . 
If Long Tom does not speak presently I'll give myself to the sharks . 
The men smiled significantly as they pulled from the shore , which was now crowded with a dense mass of savages , amounting , probably , to five or six hundred . 
The men obeyed in silence , and it seemed to me as if even their hard hearts were shocked by the ruthless deed . 
No one dared to oppose our landing now , so we carried our casks to a pool above the murdered group , and having filled them , returned on board . 
Fortunately a breeze sprang up soon afterwards and carried us away from the dreadful spot but it could not waft me away from the memory of what I had seen . 
Bloody Bill is communicative and sagacious Unpleasant prospects Retrospective meditations interrupted by volcanic agency The pirates negotiate with a Feejee chief Various etceteras that are calculated to surprise and horrify . 
IT was many days after the events just narrated ere I recovered a little of my wonted spirits . 
Fortunately he took so little notice of me that he did not observe my changed feelings towards him , otherwise it might have been worse for me . 
When I told him of my design he shook his head . 
No , no , Ralph , said he , you must not think of running away here . 
How so , Bill ? said I , would the natives not receive me ? That they would , lad but they would eat you too . 
Eat me ! said I in surprise , I thought the South Sea islanders never ate anybody except their enemies . 
I s'pose 'twas yer tender hearted friends in England that put that notion into your head . 
They can't believe it 'cause they won't believe it . 
It's a FACT that they prefer human flesh to any other . 
But they don't like white men's flesh so well as black . 
They say it makes them sick . 
Why , Bill , said I , you told me just now that they would eat ME if they caught me . 
So I did and so I think they would . 
I've only heard some o' them say they don't like white men SO WELL as black but if they was hungry they wouldn't be particular . 
Anyhow , I'm sure they would kill you . 
You see , Ralph , I've been a good while in them parts , and I've visited the different groups of islands oftentimes as a trader . 
And thorough goin' blackguards some o' them traders are . 
No better than pirates , I can tell you . 
One captain that I sailed with was not a chip better than the one we're with now . 
He was tradin' with a friendly chief one day , aboard his vessel . 
The chief had swam off to us with the things for trade tied a top of his head , for them chaps are like otters in the water . 
Well , the chief was hard on the captain , and would not part with some o' his things . 
But , as I was sayin' , I'm up to the ways o' these fellows . 
One o' the laws o' the country is , that every shipwrecked person who happens to be cast ashore , be he dead or alive , is doomed to be roasted and eaten . 
There was a small tradin' schooner wrecked off one of these islands when we were lyin' there in harbour during a storm . 
The crew was lost , all but three men , who swam ashore . 
The moment they landed they were seized by the natives and carried up into the woods . 
He also said that white men were bad to eat , and that most o' the people on shore were sick . 
I was very much shocked and cast down in my mind at this terrible account of the natives , and asked Bill what he would advise me to do . 
Then , we might manage to cut the boat adrift some fine night when it's our watch on deck , and clear off before they discovered that we were gone . 
But we would run the risk o' bein' caught by the blacks . 
I wouldn't like to try that plan . 
But you and I will think over it , Ralph , and see what's to be done . 
In the meantime it's our watch below , so I'll go and turn in . 
The crew assembled hastily on deck , and most of them were under the belief that a frightful hurricane was pending but the captain coming on deck , soon explained the phenomena . 
It's only a volcano , said he . 
I knew there was one hereabouts , but thought it was extinct . 
Up there and furl top gallant sails we'll likely have a breeze , and it's well to be ready . 
As he spoke , a shower began to fall , which we quickly observed was not rain , but fine ashes . 
As we were many miles distant from the volcano , these must have been carried to us from it by the wind . 
The shower did not cease to fall for several hours , and we must have sailed under it for nearly forty miles , perhaps farther . 
When we emerged from the cloud , our decks and every part of the rigging were completely covered with a thick coat of ashes . 
Three days after passing the volcano , we found ourselves a few miles to windward of an island of considerable size and luxuriant aspect . 
It consisted of two mountains , which seemed to be nearly four thousand feet high . 
Bloody Bill was beside me when the island first hove in sight . 
Ha ! he exclaimed , I know that island well . 
Have you been here before , then ? I inquired . 
Ay , that I have , often , and so has this schooner . 
'Tis a famous island for sandal wood . 
We have taken many cargoes off it already , and have paid for them too for the savages are so numerous that we dared not try to take it by force . 
But our captain has tried to cheat them so often , that they're beginnin' not to like us overmuch now . 
Besides , the men behaved ill the last time we were here and I wonder the captain is not afraid to venture . 
But he's afraid o' nothing earthly , I believe . 
The principal village of the natives lay about half a mile from this point . 
Ordering the boat out , the captain jumped into it , and ordered me to follow him . 
The men , fifteen in number , were well armed and the mate was directed to have Long Tom ready for emergencies . 
Give way , lads , cried the captain . 
The oars fell into the water at the word , the boat shot from the schooner's side , and in a few minutes reached the shore . 
I observed in passing that the natives , of whom there were two or three thousand , were totally unarmed . 
After a short preliminary palaver , a feast of baked pigs and various roots was spread before us of which we partook sparingly , and then proceeded to business . 
The terms were afterwards agreed on , and we rose to depart . 
All this conversation was afterwards explained to me by Bill , who understood the language pretty well . 
After begging to be allowed to introduce him to us , and receiving permission , he sent his canoe ashore to bring him off . 
At the same time he gave orders to bring on board his two favourites , a cock and a paroquet . 
While the canoe was gone on this errand , I had time to regard the savage chief attentively . 
I observed that all the other natives walked in a crouching posture while in the presence of Romata . 
Romata had never seen this gun before , as it had not been uncovered on previous visits , and the astonishment with which he viewed it was very amusing . 
Being desirous of knowing its power , he begged that the captain would fire it . 
So a shot was put into it . 
The chiefs were then directed to look at a rock about two miles out at sea , and the gun was fired . 
In a second the top of the rock was seen to burst asunder , and to fall in fragments into the sea . 
He was therefore surprised , and not a little annoyed , when the captain refused to fire at the native , and ordered the gun to be housed . 
Of all the things , however , that afforded matter of amusement to these savages , that which pleased Romata's visitor most was the ship's pump . 
He never tired of examining it , and pumping up the water . 
The men were fully armed as usual and the captain ordered me to go with them , to assist in the work . 
I noticed also large quantities of taro roots , yams , and sweet potatoes , growing in enclosures . 
On turning into an open glade of the woods , we came abruptly upon a cluster of native houses . 
It is beneath his dignity , I believe , to feed himself , answered Bill but I daresay he's not particular , except on great occasions . 
They've a strange custom among them , Ralph , which is called TABU , and they carry it to great lengths . 
But look there , said I , pointing to a man whose skin was of a much lighter colour than the generality of the natives . 
I've seen a few of these light skinned fellows among the Fejeeans . 
They seem to me to be of quite a different race . 
So they are , answered Bill . 
These fellows come from the Tongan Islands , which lie a long way to the eastward . 
No more there are any , said Bill , if ye except the niggers themselves , there's none on the islands , but a lizard or two and some sich harmless things . 
But I never seed any myself . 
If there's none on the land , however , there's more than enough in the water , and that minds me of a wonderful brute they have here . 
But , come , I'll show it to you . 
So saying , Bill arose , and , leaving the men still busy with the baked pig , led me into the forest . 
After proceeding a short distance we came upon a small pond of stagnant water . 
A native lad had followed us , to whom we called and beckoned him to come to us . 
On Bill saying a few words to him , which I did not understand , the boy advanced to the edge of the pond , and gave a low peculiar whistle . 
Immediately the water became agitated and an enormous eel thrust its head above the surface and allowed the youth to touch it . 
It was about twelve feet long , and as thick round the body as a man's thigh . 
How many more it'll get afore it dies is hard to say . 
Babies ? said I , with an incredulous look Ay , babies , returned Bill . 
But I tell you , Ralph , it's a FACT . 
They don't feed it regularly with livin' babies , but they give it one now and then as a treat . 
As we retraced our steps I questioned my companion further on this subject . 
Why , in some of the islands they have an institution called the AREOI , and the persons connected with that body are ready for any wickedness that mortal man can devise . 
In fact they stick at nothing and one o' their customs is to murder their infants the moment they are born . 
The mothers agree to it , and the fathers do it . 
I felt sick at heart while my companion recited these horrors . 
God bless the missionaries ! said I , while a feeling of enthusiasm filled my heart , so that I could speak with difficulty . 
But , Ralph , he continued , I've not told you half o' the abominations I have seen durin' my life in these seas . 
During the dinner hour I wandered into the woods alone , being disinclined for food that day . 
I had not rambled far when I found myself unexpectedly on the sea shore , having crossed a narrow neck of land which separated the native village from a large bay . 
Here I found a party of the islanders busy with one of their war canoes , which was almost ready for launching . 
It had the unwieldy out rigger and enormously high stern posts which I had remarked on the canoe that came to us while I was on the Coral Island . 
And a happier or more noisy crew I have never seen . 
They did not all play at the same game , but amused themselves in different groups . 
One band was busily engaged in a game exactly similar to our blind man's buff . 
Another set were walking on stilts , which raised the children three feet from the ground . 
They were very expert at this amusement and seldom tumbled . 
Nevertheless the children seemed to be greatly delighted with the hideous faces they made . 
But the kites were different from ours in many respects , being of every variety of shape . 
They were made of very thin cloth , and the boys raised them to a wonderful height in the air by means of twine made from the cocoa nut husk . 
Other games there were , some of which showed the natural depravity of the hearts of these poor savages , and made me wish fervently that missionaries might be sent out to them . 
The other game to which I have referred was swimming in the surf . 
What sort of amusement is this surf swimming ? I inquired of Bill , as we walked together to a part of the shore on which several thousands of the natives were assembled . 
It's a very favourite lark with these 'xtr'or'nary critters , replied Bill , giving a turn to the quid of tobacco that invariably bulged out his left cheek . 
Well , ye see , I 'spose they found swimmin' for miles out to sea , and divin' fathoms deep , wasn't exciting enough , so they invented this game o' the surf . 
For some time the swimmers continued to strike out to sea , breasting over the swell like hundreds of black seals . 
One of these last came in on the crest of the wave most manfully , and landed with a violent bound almost on the spot where Bill and I stood . 
I saw by his peculiar head dress that he was the chief whom the tribe entertained as their guest . 
Then , recollecting that this was not the white man's mode of salutation , he grasped me by the hand and shook it violently . 
Hallo , Ralph ! cried Bill , in surprise , that chap seems to have taken a sudden fancy to you , or he must be an old acquaintance . 
When he paused , I begged of Bill to ask him about the woman Avatea , for I had some hope that she might have come with Tararo on this visit . 
And ask him , said I , who she is , for I am persuaded she is of a different race from the Feejeeans . 
On the mention of her name the chief frowned darkly , and seemed to speak with much anger . 
You're right , Ralph , said Bill , when the chief had ceased to talk she's not a Feejee girl , but a Samoan . 
Lucky for her , poor girl , else she'd have been roasted and eaten like the rest . 
But why does Tararo frown and look so angry ? said I. Because the girl's somewhat obstinate , like most o' the sex , an' won't marry the man he wants her to . 
As a long pig ! I exclaimed in surprise why what does he mean by that ? He means somethin' very unpleasant , answered Bill with a frown . 
If Avatea goes to this fellow as a long pig , it's all up with her , poor thing . 
Is she on the island now ? I asked eagerly . 
No , she's at Tararo's island . 
Next instant he was pulled under the waves . 
The crest of the next billow was tinged with red as it rolled towards the shore . 
It is true the surf swimming ended for that time somewhat abruptly , but they immediately proceeded with other games . 
But , said he , such a thing as you have seen just now don't frighten them much . 
They'll be at it again to morrow or next day , just as if there wasn't a single shark between Feejee and Nova Zembla . 
Frequently one of the combatants was knocked down with a single blow and one gigantic fellow hit his adversary so severely that he drove the skin entirely off his forehead . 
This feat was hailed with immense applause by the spectators . 
It is done by means of an instrument made of bone , with a number of sharp teeth with which the skin is punctured . 
Into these punctures a preparation made from the kernel of the candle nut , mixed with cocoa nut oil , is rubbed , and the mark thus made is indelible . 
Some of the chiefs were tattooed with an ornamental stripe down the legs , which gave them the appearance of being clad in tights . 
Others had marks round the ankles and insteps , which looked like tight fitting and elegant boots . 
The women were not tattooed so much as the men , having only a few marks on their feet and arms . 
But I must say , however objectionable this strange practice may be , it nevertheless had this good effect , that it took away very much from their appearance of nakedness . 
Next day , while we were returning from the woods to our schooner , we observed Romata rushing about in the neighbourhood of his house , apparently mad with passion . 
Ah ! said Bill to me , there he's at his old tricks again . 
That's his way when he gets drink . 
The natives make a sort of drink o' their own , and it makes him bad enough but when he gets brandy he's like a wild tiger . 
The captain , I suppose , has given him a bottle , as usual , to keep him in good humour . 
After drinkin' he usually goes to sleep , and the people know it well and keep out of his way , for fear they should waken him . 
It seemed at the present time , however , that no deadly weapon had been in his way , for the infuriated chief was raging about without one . 
Suddenly he caught sight of an unfortunate man who was trying to conceal himself behind a tree . 
Rushing towards him , Romata struck him a terrible blow on the head , which knocked out the poor man's eye and also dislocated the chief's finger . 
The wretched creature offered no resistance he did not even attempt to parry the blow . 
Have these wretched creatures no law among themselves , said I , which can restrain such wickedness ? None , replied Bill . 
The chief's word is law . 
He might kill and eat a dozen of his own subjects any day for nothing more than his own pleasure , and nobody would take the least notice of it . 
Mischief brewing My blood is made to run cold Evil consultations and wicked resolves Bloody Bill attempts to do good and fails The attack Wholesale murder The flight The escape . 
I was surrounded on all sides by human beings of the most dreadful character , to whom the shedding of blood was mere pastime . 
On shore were the natives , whose practices were so horrible that I could not think of them without shuddering . 
I felt very much cast down the more I considered the subject and the impossibility of delivery , as it seemed to me , at least for a long time to come . 
The fact was that the captain had been out of humour for some time past . 
I had , therefore , to go with the wood cutters that day . 
Before starting , however , the captain called me into the cabin , and said , Here , Ralph , I've got a mission for you , lad . 
Take with you one of the men who can speak the language . 
On expressing my surprise at the gift , he said , They're paltry enough to you or me , Ralph , but they're considered of great value by them chaps . 
They're a sort o' cash among them . 
The red ones are the most prized , one of them bein' equal to twenty o' the white ones . 
I suppose the only reason for their bein' valuable is that there ain't many of them , and they're hard to be got . 
Go , said he , with a wave of the hand , go , tell your captain that he may cut wood to day , but not to morrow . 
He must come ashore , I want to have a palaver with him . 
As we left the house to return to the woods , Bill shook his head There's mischief brewin' in that black rascal's head . 
I know him of old . 
At first I thought that these burdens were poles with something rolled round them , the end of each pole resting on a man's shoulder . 
But on a nearer approach I saw that they were human beings , tied hand and foot , and so lashed to the poles that they could not move . 
I counted twenty of them as they passed . 
More murder ! said Bill , in a voice that sounded between a hoarse laugh and a groan . 
Surely they are not going to murder them ? said I , looking anxiously into Bill's face . 
I don't know , Ralph , replied Bill , what they're goin' to do with them but I fear they mean no good when they tie fellows up in that way . 
As we continued our way towards the wood cutters , I observed that Bill looked anxiously over his shoulder , in the direction where the procession had disappeared . 
At last he stopped , and turning abruptly on his heel , said , I tell ye what it is , Ralph , I must be at the bottom o' that affair . 
Let us follow these black scoundrels and see what they're goin' to do . 
I must say I had no wish to pry further into their bloody practices but Bill seemed bent on it , so I turned and went . 
We passed rapidly through the bush , being guided in the right direction by the shouts of the savages . 
As we reached the verge of the wood , we discovered the savages surrounding the large war canoe , which they were apparently on the point of launching . 
But there was no pity in the breasts of these men . 
Oh , reader , this is no fiction . 
I would not , for the sake of thrilling you with horror , invent so terrible a scene . 
During the remainder of that day I felt as if I were in a horrible dream . 
I scarce knew what was said to me , and was more than once blamed by the men for idling my time . 
At last the hour to return aboard came . 
We marched down to the beach , and I felt relief for the first time when my feet rested on the schooner's deck . 
In the course of the evening I overheard part of a conversation between the captain and the first mate , which startled me not a little . 
They were down in the cabin , and conversed in an under tone , but the sky light being off , I overheard every word that was said . 
I don't half like it , said the mate . 
It seems to me that we'll only have hard fightin' and no pay . 
No pay ! repeated the captain , in a voice of suppressed anger . 
Do you call a good cargo all for nothing no pay ? Very true , returned the mate but we've got the cargo aboard . 
He defied us to do our worst , yesterday . 
Defied us ! did he ? cried the mate , with a bitter laugh . 
Poor contemptible thing ! And yet he seems not so contemptible but that you are afraid to attack him . 
Who said I was afraid ? growled the mate , sulkily . 
I'm as ready as any man in the ship . 
Then I shall land with all the men except two , who shall take care of the schooner and be ready with the boat to take us off . 
After that the thing will be easy enough . 
The savages will take to the mountains in a body , and we shall take what we require , up anchor , and away . 
To this plan the mate at length agreed . 
As he left the cabin I heard the captain say , Give the men an extra glass of grog , and don't forget the buck shot . 
The reader may conceive the horror with which I heard this murderous conversation . 
I immediately repeated it to Bill , who seemed much perplexed about it . 
After it grew dark , Bill put this resolve in practice . 
He slipped over the side with a musket in his left hand , while with his right he swam ashore and entered the woods . 
He soon returned , having accomplished his purpose , and got on board without being seen , I being the only one on deck . 
When the hour of midnight approached the men were mustered on deck , the cable was cut and the muffled sweeps got out . 
These sweeps were immensely large oars , each requiring a couple of men to work it . 
He then pointed to the boat , into which the men crowded in silence . 
There was no room to row , but oars were not needed , as a slight push against the side of the schooner sent the boat gliding to the shore . 
There's no need of leaving two in the boat , whispered the mate , as the men stepped out we shall want all our hands . 
He then threw his carbine into the hollow of his arm and glided through the bushes followed by his men . 
With a throbbing head I awaited the result of our plan . 
I knew the exact locality where the musket was placed , for Bill had described it to me , and I kept my straining eyes fixed upon the spot . 
But no sound came , and I began to fear that either they had gone in another direction or that Bill had not fixed the string properly . 
Suddenly I heard a faint click , and observed one or two bright sparks among the bushes . 
My heart immediately sank within me , for I knew at once that the trigger had indeed been pulled but that the priming had not caught . 
The plan , therefore , had utterly failed . 
A feeling of dread now began to creep over me as I stood in the boat , in that dark , silent spot , awaiting the issue of this murderous expedition . 
I shuddered as I glanced at the water that glided past like a dark reptile . 
I looked back at the schooner , but her hull was just barely visible , while her tapering masts were lost among the trees which overshadowed her . 
Her lower sails were set , but so thick was the gloom that they were quite invisible . 
Suddenly I heard a shot . 
Then I heard another shout loud and close at hand . 
It was the voice of the captain cursing the man who had fired the premature shot . 
Then came the order , Forward , followed by the wild hurrah of our men , as they charged the savages . 
Shots now rang in quick succession , and at last a loud volley startled the echoes of the woods . 
While I was listening intently to these sounds , which were now mingled in confusion , I was startled by the rustling of the leaves not far from me . 
I saw at once that this was a party who had out flanked our men , and would speedily attack them in the rear . 
At length the tumult of battle ceased , and , from the cries of exultation that now arose from the savages , I felt assured that our men had been conquered . 
I was immediately thrown into dreadful consternation . 
It was succeeded by a shout from the savages . 
Then came another , and another shriek of agony , making my ears to tingle , as I felt convinced they were murdering the pirate crew in cold blood . 
With a bursting heart and my brain whirling as if on fire , I seized the boat hook to push from shore when a man sprang from the bushes . 
Stop ! Ralph , stop ! there now , push off , he cried , and bounded into the boat so violently as nearly to upset her . 
It was Bill's voice ! In another moment we were on board , the boat made fast , the line of the anchor cut , and the sweeps run out . 
At the first stroke of Bill's giant arm the schooner was nearly pulled ashore , for in his haste he forgot that I could scarcely move the unwieldy oar . 
The schooner now began to glide quickly down the creek , but before we reached its mouth , a yell from a thousand voices on the bank told that we were discovered . 
Instantly a number of the savages plunged into the water and swam towards us but we were making so much way that they could not overtake us . 
One , however , an immensely powerful man , succeeded in laying hold of the cut rope that hung from the stern , and clambered quickly upon deck . 
Bill caught sight of him the instant his head appeared above the taffrail . 
Lifting him up he hurled him overboard and resumed the oar . 
But now a greater danger awaited us , for the savages had outrun us on the bank and were about to plunge into the water ahead of the schooner . 
If they succeeded in doing so our fate was sealed . 
For one moment Bill stood irresolute . 
Then , drawing a pistol from his belt , he sprang to the brass gun , held the pan of his pistol over the touch hole and fired . 
Reflections The wounded man The squall True consolation Death . 
My mind and body were alike active and full of energy . 
From this state I was quickly aroused by Bill , who shook me by the arm , saying , Hallo ! Ralph , boy , rouse up , lad , we're safe now . 
Poor thing , I believe he's fainted . 
And raising me in his arms he laid me on the folds of the gaff top sail , which lay upon the deck near the tiller . 
I raised my eyes gratefully , as I swallowed a mouthful next moment my head sank heavily upon my arm and I fell fast asleep . 
I slept long , for when I awoke the sun was a good way above the horizon . 
As he seemed to rest peacefully I did not mean to disturb him , but the slight noise I made in raising myself on my elbow caused him to start and look round . 
Well , Ralph , awake at last , my boy you have slept long and soundly , he said , turning towards me . 
On beholding his countenance I sprang up in anxiety . 
He was deadly pale , and his hair , which hung in dishevelled locks over his face , was clotted with blood . 
Blood also stained his hollow cheeks and covered the front of his shirt , which , with the greater part of dress , was torn and soiled with mud . 
Oh , Bill ! said I , with deep anxiety , what is the matter with you ? You are ill . 
You must have been wounded . 
Even so , lad , said Bill in a deep soft voice , while he extended his huge frame on the couch from which I had just risen . 
You seemed to sleep so sweetly , Ralph , that I didn't like to disturb you . 
But I don't feel up to much just now . 
I did not wait till he had done talking , but ran below immediately , and returned in a few seconds with a bottle of brandy and some broken biscuit . 
He seemed much refreshed after eating a few morsels and drinking a long draught of water mingled with a little of the spirits . 
Immediately afterwards he fell asleep , and I watched him anxiously until he awoke , being desirous of knowing the nature and extent of his wound . 
Nay , Bill you must not move , but lie still while I look at your wound . 
I'll make a comfortable bed for you here on deck , and get you some breakfast . 
After that you shall tell me how you got it . 
I then left him , and lighted a fire in the caboose . 
He seemed much better , and smiled kindly on me as I set before him a cup of coffee and a tray with several eggs and some bread on it . 
Now then , Bill , said I , cheerfully , sitting down beside him on the deck , let's fall to . 
I'm very hungry myself , I can tell you but I forgot your wound , I added , rising let me look at it . 
I found that the wound was caused by a pistol shot in the chest . 
It did not bleed much , and , as it was on the right side , I was in hopes that it might not be very serious . 
But Bill shook his head . 
However , said he , sit down , Ralph , and I'll tell you all about it . 
I was in a great quandary now what to do , for I couldn't concoct in my mind , in the hurry , any good reason for firin' off my piece . 
I rose at once , and was rushin' on with the rest when the captain called a halt . 
'You did that a purpose , you villain ! he said , with a tremendous oath , and , drawin' a pistol from his belt , let fly right into my breast . 
I didn't wait for more , but , bounding up , went crashing through the bushes into the woods . 
The black fellows caught sight of me , however , but not in time to prevent me jumpin' into the boat , as you know . 
But now , Bill , said I , it behoves us to think about the future , and what course of action we shall pursue . 
Moreover , here comes a breeze , so we must make up our minds which way to steer . 
Ralph , boy , said my companion , it matters not to me which way we go . 
I fear that my time is short now . 
Well then , Bill , I think we had better steer to the Coral Island , and see what has become of my dear old comrades , Jack and Peterkin . 
'Tis true I'll require half a day to hoist them , but we don't need to mind that . 
Bill smiled faintly as I ran on in this strain . 
I'm dyin' , Ralph yet I , who have braved death a hundred times , am afraid to die . 
I'm afraid to enter the next world . 
Something within tells me there will be a reckoning when I go there . 
But it's all over with me , Ralph . 
I feel that there's no chance o' my bein' saved . 
Don't say that , Bill , said I , in deep compassion , don't say that . 
I'm quite sure there's hope even for you , but I can't remember the words of the Bible that make me think so . 
Is there not a Bible on board , Bill ? No the last that was in the ship belonged to a poor boy that was taken aboard against his will . 
He died , poor lad , I think , through ill treatment and fear . 
After he was gone the captain found his Bible and flung it overboard . 
I was much distressed , and taxed my memory for a long time . 
At last a text did flash into my mind , and I wondered much that I had not thought of it before . 
Bill , said I , in a low voice , 'Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved . 
Ay , Ralph , I've heard the missionaries say that before now , but what good can it do me ? It's not for me that . 
It's not for the likes o' me . 
After a short pause , Bill raised his eyes to mine and said , Ralph , I've led a terrible life . 
I've been a sailor since I was a boy , and I've gone from bad to worse ever since I left my father's roof . 
I've been a pirate three years now . 
It is true I did not choose the trade , but I was inveigled aboard this schooner and kept here by force till I became reckless and at last joined them . 
Since that time my hand has been steeped in human blood again and again . 
Your young heart would grow cold if I but why should I go on ? 'Tis of no use , Ralph my doom is fixed . 
Bill , said I , 'Though your sins be red like crimson , they shall be white as snow . 
Only believe ! cried Bill , starting up on his elbow I've heard men talk o' believing as if it was easy . 
He sank back with a deep groan . 
As if the very elements sympathized with this man's sufferings , a low moan came sweeping over the sea . 
Hist ! Ralph , said Bill , opening his eves there's a squall coming , lad . 
Clew up the fore sail . 
Drop the main sail peak . 
Them squalls come quick sometimes . 
I had already started to my feet , and saw that a heavy squall was indeed bearing down on us . 
It had hitherto escaped my notice , owing to my being so much engrossed by our conversation . 
I instantly did as Bill desired , for the schooner was still lying motionless on the glassy sea . 
Having done my best to shorten sail , I returned aft , and took my stand at the helm . 
Now , boy , said Bill , in a faint voice , keep her close to the wind . 
A few seconds afterwards he said , Ralph , let me hear those two texts again . 
Are ye sure , lad , ye saw them in the Bible ? Quite sure , I replied . 
Almost before the words had left my lips the wind burst upon us , and the spray dashed over our decks . 
For a time the schooner stood it bravely , and sprang forward against the rising sea like a war horse . 
Meanwhile clouds darkened the sky , and the sea began to rise in huge billows . 
At the same moment Bill lost his hold of the belaying pin which had served to steady him , and he slid with stunning violence against the sky light . 
At the end of that time the squall passed away , and left us rocking on the bosom of the agitated sea . 
My first care , the instant I could quit the helm , was to raise Bill from the deck and place him on the couch . 
I then ran below for the brandy bottle and rubbed his face and hands with it , and endeavoured to pour a little down his throat . 
But my efforts , although I continued them long and assiduously , were of no avail as I let go the hand which I had been chafing it fell heavily on the deck . 
I laid my hand over his heart , and sat for some time quite motionless , but there was no flutter there the pirate was dead ! CHAPTER XXVIII . 
Alone on the deep Necessity the mother of invention A valuable book discovered Natural phenomenon A bright day in my history . 
Alone ! in the midst of the wide Pacific , having a most imperfect knowledge of navigation , and in a schooner requiring at least eight men as her proper crew . 
But I will not tax the reader's patience with a minute detail of my feelings and doings during the first few days that followed the death of my companion . 
I will merely mention that I tied a cannon ball to his feet and , with feelings of the deepest sorrow , consigned him to the deep . 
For fully a week after that a steady breeze blew from the east , and , as my course lay west and by north , I made rapid progress towards my destination . 
, and so had its correct bearings by compass . 
As the weather seemed now quite settled and fine , and as I had got into the trade winds , I set about preparations for hoisting the top sails . 
This was a most arduous task , and my first attempts were complete failures , owing , in a great degree , to my reprehensible ignorance of mechanical forces . 
I was much bruised and somewhat stunned by this untoward accident . 
However , I considered it fortunate that I was not killed . 
In my next attempt I made sure of not coming by a similar accident , so I unreeved the tackling and fitted up larger blocks and ropes . 
After the tackling was prepared and in good working order , it took me the greater part of a day to hoist the main top sail . 
By this means I was enabled also to go about the deck and down below for things that I wanted , as occasion required also to cook and eat my victuals . 
After my night's rest , therefore , I had only to make allowance for the lee way she had made , and so resume my course . 
The only book I found on board , after a careful search , was a volume of Captain Cook's voyages . 
This , I suppose , the pirate captain had brought with him in order to guide him , and to furnish him with information regarding the islands of these seas . 
The whole sea appeared somewhat like milk and was remarkably luminous . 
I ran with it to the lamp but when I got there it was gone . 
On the evening of my fourteenth day , I was awakened out of a nap into which I had fallen by a loud cry , and starting up , I gazed around me . 
I was surprised and delighted to see a large albatross soaring majestically over the ship . 
I immediately took it into my head that this was the albatross I had seen at Penguin Island . 
He kept me company all that day and left me as night fell . 
Being always on the alert for squalls , I ran to the bow . 
There could be no doubt it was a squall , and as I listened I thought I heard the murmur of the coming gale . 
While thus engaged the dawn advanced , and I cast an occasional furtive glance ahead in the midst of my labour . 
But now that things were prepared for the worst , I ran forward again and looked anxiously over the bow . 
The effect of a cannon shot A happy reunion of a somewhat moist nature Retrospects and explanations An awful dive New plans The last of the Coral Island . 
I ALMOST fell upon the deck with the tumult of mingled emotions that filled my heart , as I gazed ardently towards my beautiful island . 
It was still many miles away , but sufficiently near to enable me to trace distinctly the well remembered outlines of the two mountains . 
The remainder of the time I spent in making feverish preparations for arriving and seeing my dear comrades . 
I remembered that they were not in the habit of rising before six , and , as it was now only three , I hoped to arrive before they were awake . 
Fortunately the anchor was hanging at the cat head , otherwise I should never have been able to use it . 
Now , I had only to cut the tackling , and it would drop of its own weight . 
After searching among the flags , I found the terrible black one , which I ran up to the peak . 
While I was doing this , a thought struck me . 
I took care to grease its mouth well , and , before leaving the fore part of the ship , thrust the poker into the fire . 
A steady five knot breeze was blowing , so that I was now not more than quarter of a mile from the reef . 
On coming opposite the Water Garden , I put the helm hard down . 
The schooner came round with a rapid , graceful bend , and lost way just opposite the bower . 
One gaze he gave , one yell , and then fled into the bushes like a wild cat . 
Hallo ! I shouted , almost mad with joy , what , ho ! Peterkin ! Jack ! hallo ! it's me ! My shout was just in time to arrest them . 
I could no longer contain myself . 
Throwing off my jacket , I jumped overboard at the same moment that Jack bounded into the sea . 
It can be more easily imagined than described , so I will draw a curtain over this part of my history , and carry the reader forward over an interval of three days . 
Well , continued Jack , you may guess my consternation when you did not answer to my halloo . 
Well , after the schooner had disappeared , I dived back into the cave , much to Peterkin's relief , and told him what I had seen . 
But now we thought of the difficulty of getting out of the cave without your help . 
So I suggested that he should take a good long breath , and trust himself to me . 
'It might let me get one breath under water ! 'No use , said I 'it would fill in a moment and suffocate you . 
But Peterkin didn't relish this idea . 
I was therefore , obliged to force him violently back into the cave gain , where he rose panting to the surface . 
I wish we had , again interrupted Peterkin with a sigh . 
'Now then , said I , 'pull away at the wind , lad . 
Peterkin drew in a breath so long that I could not help thinking of the frog in the fable , that wanted to swell itself as big as the ox . 
Then I looked into his face earnestly . 
Slap went the lid of his right eye down went my head , and up went my heels . 
However , in the middle of a laugh that a hyaena might have envied , I let him accidentally slip , which extinguished him in a moment . 
In about three weeks we completed the survey of the whole island , and had at least the satisfaction of knowing that you had not been killed . 
But it occurred to us that you might have been thrown into the sea , so we examined the sands and the lagoon carefully , and afterwards went all round the outer reef . 
One day , while we were upon the reef , Peterkin espied a small dark object lying among the rocks , which seemed to be quite different from the surrounding stones . 
We hastened towards the spot , and found it to be a small keg . 
On knocking out the head we discovered that it was gunpowder . 
It was I who sent you that , Jack , said I , with a smile . 
Fork out ! cried Peterkin , energetically , starting to his feet and extending his open hand to Jack . 
Peterkin was right then , said I , explaining how the thing had occurred . 
We did not find any other vestige of you on the reef , and , finally , gave up all hope of ever seeing you again . 
After this the island became a dreary place to us , and we began to long for a ship to heave in sight and take us off . 
But now that you're back again , my dear fellow , it looks as bright and cheerful as it used to do , and I love it as much as ever . 
And now , continued Jack , I have a great desire to visit some of the other islands of the South Seas . 
Here we have a first rate schooner at our disposal , so I don't see what should hinder us . 
Just the very thing I was going to propose , cried Peterkin I vote for starting at once . 
If he has a spark of gratitude in him he'll do it . 
Can you doubt it ? said I. For a moment , added Peterkin . 
When all was ready , we paid a farewell visit to the different familiar spots where most of our time had been spent . 
Then we descended to Spouting Cliff , and looked down at the pale green monster which we had made such fruitless efforts to spear in days gone by . 
From this we hurried to the Water Garden and took a last dive into its clear waters , and a last gambol amongst its coral groves . 
It was indeed so lovely and so interesting that I would scarcely allow myself to be torn away from it . 
A steady breeze was blowing off shore when we set sail , at a little before sunset . 
It swept us quickly past the reef and out to sea . 
The shore grew rapidly more indistinct as the shades of evening fell , while our clipper bark bounded lightly over the waves . 
Slowly the mountain top sank on the horizon , until it became a mere speck . 
In another moment the sun and the Coral Island sank together into the broad bosom of the Pacific . 
The voyage The island , and a consultation in which danger is scouted as a thing unworthy of consideration Rats and cats The native teacher Awful revelations Wonderful effects of Christianity . 
OUR voyage during the next two weeks was most interesting and prosperous . 
We had no difficulty now in managing our sails , for Jack was heavy and powerful , while Peterkin was active as a kitten . 
But I will not drag my reader through the details of this voyage . 
As soon as we came within sight of it we hove the ship to , and held a council of war . 
Oh ! bother the danger , cried Peterkin I wonder to hear YOU , Jack , talk of danger . 
I grant you , that , when we've once resolved to act , and have made up our minds what to do , we should think no more of danger . 
He told me , however , that , at the southern side of it , the missionaries had obtained a footing amongst an insignificant tribe . 
A native teacher had been sent there by the Wesleyans , who had succeeded in persuading the chief at that part to embrace Christianity . 
'Tis a pity , said Jack , that the Christian tribe is so small , for we shall scarcely be safe under their protection , I fear . 
If Tararo takes it into his head to wish for our vessel , or to kill ourselves , he could take us from them by force . 
You say that the native missionary talks English ? So I believe . 
Then , what I propose is this , said Jack We will run round to the south side of the island , and cut anchor off the Christian village . 
Peterkin was wrong , however , in his estimate of savage gratitude , as the sequel will show . 
Here we awaited the arrival of a canoe , which immediately put off on our rounding to . 
When it arrived , a mild looking native , of apparently forty years of age , came on board , and , taking off his straw hat , made us a low bow . 
After returning his salutation , Jack exclaimed , You must be the native missionary teacher of whom I have heard are you not ? I am . 
I have the joy to be a servant of the Lord Jesus at this station . 
You're the very man I want to see , then , replied Jack that's lucky . 
Come down to the cabin , friend , and have a glass of wine . 
I wish particularly to speak with you . 
will look after your people . 
Thank you , said the teacher , as he followed Jack to the cabin , I do not drink wine or any strong drink . 
Oh ! then , there's lots of water , and you can have biscuit . 
Then , thrusting his hands into his pockets , he walked up and down the deck with an enormous swagger , whistling vociferously . 
In about half an hour Jack and the teacher came on deck , and the latter , bidding us a cheerful good evening , entered his canoe and paddled to the shore . 
The teacher , who seems a first rate fellow , says it's quite deep , and good anchorage within the lagoon close to the shore . 
So , you see , we have come in the nick of time . 
I fancy that this chief is the fellow whom you heard of , Ralph , at the Island of Emo . 
The site of the settlement was an extensive plot of flat land , stretching in a gentle slope from the sea to the mountain . 
On a prominent position stood a handsome church , which was quite a curiosity in its way . 
It was a hundred feet long by fifty broad , and was seated throughout to accommodate upwards of two thousand persons . 
The shore was lined with hundreds of natives , whose persons were all more or less clothed with native cloth . 
Some of the men had on a kind of poncho formed of this cloth , their legs being uncovered . 
Others wore clumsily fashioned trousers , and no upper garment except hats made of straw and cloth . 
Many of the dresses , both of women and men , were grotesque enough , being very bad imitations of the European garb but all wore a dress of some sort or other . 
We were much annoyed , however , by the rats they seemed to run about the house like domestic animals . 
Are they , then , so numerous ? inquired Jack . 
The poor heathens on the north side eat them , and think them very sweet . 
So did my people formerly but they do not eat so many now , because the missionary who was last here expressed disgust at it . 
We would , indeed , be glad to have a few , rejoined the teacher , but they are difficult to be got . 
The hogs , we find , are very good rat killers , but they do not seem to be able to keep the numbers down . 
I have heard that they are better than cats . 
As the teacher said this , his good natured black face was wrinkled with a smile of merriment . 
Observing that I had noticed it , he said I smiled just now when I remembered the fate of the first cat that was taken to Raratonga . 
This is one of the stations of the London Missionary Society . 
It , like our own , is infested with rats , and a cat was brought at last to the island . 
It was a large black one . 
The chief's wife , who was sitting awake at his side while he slept , beheld with horror two fires glistening in the doorway , and heard with surprise a mysterious voice . 
'Get up and pray ! get up and pray ! she cried . 
The chief arose , and , on opening his eyes , beheld the same glaring lights , and heard the same ominous sound . 
To some of these Jack put questions through the medium of the missionary and the replies were such as to surprise us at the extent of their knowledge . 
Those of the first class are volcanic , mountainous , and wild some shooting their jagged peaks into the clouds at an elevation of ten and fifteen thousand feet . 
Those of the second class are of crystalized limestone , and vary in height from one hundred to five hundred feet . 
The hills on these are not so wild or broken as those of the first class , but are richly clothed with vegetation , and very beautiful . 
I have no doubt that the Coral Island on which you were wrecked was one of this class . 
They are supposed to have been upheaved from the bottom of the sea by volcanic agency , but they are not themselves volcanic in their nature , neither are they of coral formation . 
Those of the third class are the low coralline islands usually having lagoons of water in their midst they are very numerous . 
As to the manner in which coral islands and reefs are formed there are various opinions on this point . 
I will give you what seems to me the most probable theory , a theory , I may add , which is held by some of the good and scientific missionaries . 
It is well known that there is much lime in salt water it is also known that coral is composed of lime . 
It is supposed that the polypes , or coral insects , have the power of attracting this lime to their bodies and with this material they build their little cells or habitations . 
When the surface of the water is reached , these myriads of wonderful creatures die . 
Then birds visit the spot , and seeds are thus conveyed thither , which take root , and spring up , and flourish . 
Thus are commenced those coralline islets of which you have seen so many in these seas . 
The reefs round the large islands are formed in a similar manner . 
The missionary also gave us an account of the manner in which Christianity had been introduced among them . 
I was instantly dragged up the beach by the natives who , on finding I had nothing worth having upon me , let me alone . 
I then made signs to my friends in the ship to leave me which they did . 
At fist the natives listened to me in silence , but laughed at what I said while I preached the gospel of our blessed Saviour Jesus Christ to them . 
About a month after I landed , I heard that the chief was dead . 
He was the father of the present chief , who is now a most consistent member of the church . 
It is a custom here that , when a chief dies , his wives are strangled and buried with him . 
Knowing this , I hastened to his house to endeavour to prevent such cruelty if possible . 
When I arrived , I found two of the wives had already been killed , while another was in the act of being strangled . 
I pleaded hard for her , but it was too late she was already dead . 
All this time the chief's son was walking up and down before his father's house with a brow black as thunder . 
'Why , said I , 'have you strangled your father's wives before he is dead ? To this the son replied , 'He is dead . 
That is no longer my father . 
He is as good as dead now . 
He is to be BURIED ALIVE . 
My prayer was answered very soon . 
A week afterwards , the son , who was now chief of the tribe , came to me , bearing his god on his shoulders , and groaning beneath its weight . 
Flinging it down at my feet , he desired me to burn it ! You may conceive how overjoyed I was at this . 
I sprang up and embraced him , while I shed tears of joy . 
The London Missionary Society have a great many in the Tahiti group , and other islands in that quarter . 
Then the Wesleyans have the Feejee Islands all to themselves , and the Americans have many stations in other groups . 
On returning towards the village , about noon , we remarked on the beautiful whiteness of the cottages . 
That is owing to the lime with which they are plastered , said the teacher . 
When the natives were converted , as I have described , I set them to work to build cottages for themselves , and also this handsome church which you see . 
When the framework and other parts of the houses were up , I sent the people to fetch coral from the sea . 
Then I made them cut wood , and , piling the coral above it , set it on fire . 
'Look ! look ! cried the poor people , in amazement 'what wonderful people the Christians are ! He is roasting stones . 
We shall not need taro or bread fruit any more we may eat stones ! But their surprise was still greater when the coral was reduced to a fine soft white powder . 
They were also much surprised at another thing they saw me do . 
I wished to make some household furniture , and constructed a turning lathe to assist me . 
Saying that he had business to attend to , he left us to amuse ourselves as we best could . 
Now , lads , said Jack , turning abruptly towards us , and buttoning up his jacket as he spoke , I'm off to see the battle . 
It's only six miles off , and we don't run much more risk than that of getting a rap with a stray stone or an over shot arrow . 
Will you go ? To be sure we will , said Peterkin . 
If they chance to see us we'll cut and run for it , added Jack . 
Dear me ! cried Peterkin , YOU run ! thought you would scorn to run from any one . 
A strange and bloody battle The lion bearded in his den Frightful scenes of cruelty , and fears for the future . 
WE had ascertained from the teacher the direction to the spot on which the battle was to be fought , and after a walk of two hours reached it . 
We arrived before the two parties had commenced the deadly struggle , and , creeping as close up as we dared among the rocks , we lay and watched them . 
The combatants were drawn up face to face , each side ranged in rank four deep . 
Soon after we arrived , the attack was made with great fury . 
There was no science displayed . 
The two bodies of savages rushed headlong upon each other and engaged in a general MELEE , and a more dreadful set of men I have never seen . 
They wore grotesque war caps made of various substances and decorated with feathers . 
We were much surprised at the conduct of the women , who seemed to be perfect furies , and hung about the heels of their husbands in order to defend them . 
But the battle did not last long . 
The band most distant from us gave way and were routed , leaving eighteen of their comrades dead upon the field . 
We hastened back to the Christian village with feelings of the deepest sadness at the sanguinary conflict which we had just witnessed . 
Next day , after breakfasting with our friend the teacher , we made preparations for carrying out our plan . 
At first the teacher endeavoured to dissuade us . 
You do not know , said he , turning to Jack , the danger you run in venturing amongst these ferocious savages . 
I feel much pity for poor Avatea but you are not likely to succeed in saving her , and you may die in the attempt . 
Well , said Jack , quietly , I am not afraid to die in a good cause . 
We now went on board the schooner , having resolved to sail round the island and drop anchor opposite the heathen village . 
We manned her with natives , and hoped to overawe the savages by displaying our brass gun to advantage . 
The teacher soon after came on board , and setting our sails we put to sea . 
The teacher showed himself , and explaining that we were friends and wished to palaver with the chief , desired the native to go and tell him to come on board . 
We waited long and with much impatience for an answer . 
To this the teacher returned answer that we would land immediately . 
I think that our only chance of success lies in mild measures . 
What says he ? inquired Jack when the savage had concluded . 
He says that the chief is just going to the temple of his god and cannot see us yet so we must be patient , my friend . 
Well , cried Jack , rising if he won't come to see me , I'll e'en go and see him . 
Besides , I have a great desire to witness their proceedings at this temple of theirs . 
Very good , returned Jack then I'll go alone , for I cannot condemn their doings till I have seen them . 
As we turned into a broad path leading towards the hill , we were arrested by the shouts of an approaching multitude in the rear . 
They had an exceedingly hideous aspect , owing to the black , red , and yellow paints with which their faces and naked bodies were bedaubed . 
In the midst of these came a band of men carrying three or four planks , on which were seated in rows upwards of a dozen men . 
We had better not go to the temple . 
We shall only be horrified without being able to do any good , for I fear they are going to kill them . 
Jack's face wore an expression of deep compassion as he said , in a low voice , No fear , Ralph the sufferings of these poor fellows are over long ago . 
Behind these came two men leading between them a third , whose hands were pinioned behind his back . 
The rear of the procession was brought up by a shouting crowd of women and children , with whom we mingled and followed to the temple . 
Here we arrived in a few minutes . 
The temple was a tall circular building , open at one side . 
Around it were strewn heaps of human bones and skulls . 
At a table inside sat the priest , an elderly man , with a long gray beard . 
Farther in lay a variety of articles that had been dedicated to the god , and among them were many spears and clubs . 
I observed among the latter some with human teeth sticking in them , where the victims had been clubbed in their mouths . 
, advanced , and , laying his hands on their heads , began to chide them , apparently , in a low bantering tone . 
The bodies were then brought back to the temple and dissected by the priest , after which they were taken out to be baked . 
Close to the temple a large fire was kindled , in which stones were heated red hot . 
When ready these were spread out on the ground , and a thick coating of leaves strewn over them to slack the heat . 
On this lovo , or oven , the bodies were then placed , covered over , and left to bake . 
The crowd now ran , with terrible yells , towards a neighbouring hill or mound , on which we observed the frame work of a house lying ready to be erected . 
Arrived at the place , we saw the multitude crowding round a certain spot . 
We pressed forward and obtained a sight of what they were doing . 
While we looked , the man whom we had before observed with his hands pinioned , was carried into the circle . 
His hands were now free , but his legs were tightly strapped together . 
The post of the house was then placed in the hole , and the man put in beside it . 
His head was a good way below the surface of the hole , and his arms were clasped round the post . 
An unexpected discovery , and a bold , reckless defiance , with its consequences Plans of escape , and heroic resolves . 
We advanced to meet him , and he expressed , through our interpreter , much pleasure in seeing us . 
And what is it that my friends wish to say to me ? he inquired . 
The teacher explained that we came to beg that Avatea might be spared . 
While this was being translated , the chiefs brow lowered , and we could see plainly that our request met with no favourable reception . 
He replied with considerable energy , and at some length . 
What says he ? inquired Jack . 
I regret to say that he will not listen to the proposal . 
Jack bit his lip in suppressed anger . 
Tell Tararo , he exclaimed with flashing eye , that if he does not grant my demand , it will be worse for him . 
Say I have a big gun on board my schooner that will blow his village into the sea , if he does not give up the girl . 
Nay , my friend , said the teacher , gently , I will not tell him that we must overcome evil with good . 
What does my friend say ? inquired the chief , who seemed nettled by Jack's looks of defiance . 
He is displeased , replied the teacher . 
What are they doing there ? I inquired . 
I think that they are laying out a gift which they intend to present to some one , said the teacher . 
At this moment a couple of men appeared leading a young girl between them and , going towards the heap of fruits and vegetables , placed her on the top of it . 
Stay your hands , warriors ! It is not your part to judge in this matter . 
It is for Tararo , the chief , to say whether or not the young man shall live or die . 
The young man's life is mine . 
Then , turning to Jack , he said , You have forfeited your liberty and life to me . 
Submit yourself , for we are more numerous than the sand upon the shore . 
You are but one why should you die ? Villain ! exclaimed Jack , passionately , I may die , but , assuredly , I shall not perish alone . 
I will not submit until you promise that this girl shall not be injured . 
You are very bold , replied the chief , haughtily , but very foolish . 
Yet I will say that Avatea shall not be sent away , at least for three days . 
You had better accept these terms , whispered the teacher , entreatingly . 
If you persist in this mad defiance , you will be slain , and Avatea will be lost . 
Three days are worth having . 
Jack hesitated a moment , then lowered his club , and , throwing it moodily to the ground , crossed his arms on his breast , and hung down his head in silence . 
While the teacher translated this , he approached as near to where Avatea was standing as possible , without creating suspicion , and whispered to her a few words in the native language . 
Tararo now advanced , and taking the girl by the hand , led her unresistingly away , while Jack , Peterkin , and I returned with the teacher on board the schooner . 
God has given us three days , and we must use the means that are in our power to free this poor girl from slavery . 
How can I act ? I cannot fight a whole nation of savages single handed . 
Yes , he said , with a bitter smile , I can fight them , but I cannot conquer them , or save Avatea . 
Patience , my friend your spirit is not a good one just now . 
You cannot expect that blessing which alone can insure success , unless you are more submissive . 
I will tell you my plans if you will listen . 
Listen ! cried Jack , eagerly , of course I will , my good fellow I did not know you had any plans . 
I only hope you will show me how I can get the girl on board of this schooner , and I'd up anchor and away in no time . 
But proceed with your plans . 
No , no , that could not be done . 
Even now , your ship would be taken from you were it not that Tararo has some feeling of gratitude toward you . 
But I know Tararo well . 
He is a man of falsehood , as all the unconverted savages are . 
The chief to whom he has promised this girl is very powerful , and Tararo MUST fulfil his promise . 
Still , as he might have made you a prisoner during those three days , I say that God has given them to us . 
Well , but what do you propose to do ? said Jack , impatiently . 
My plan involves much danger , but I see no other , and I think you have courage to brave it . 
Once there , Avatea would be safe . 
Now , I suggest that you should abandon your schooner . 
Bravo ! cried Peterkin , springing up and seizing the teacher's hand . 
Missionary , you're a regular brick . 
I didn't think you had so much in you . 
As for me , continued the teacher , I will remain on board till they discover that you are gone . 
Then they will ask me where you are gone to , and I will refuse to tell . 
And what'll be the result of that ? inquired Jack . 
I have arranged with her to meet us at a particular spot , to which I will guide you to night . 
We shall then arrange about it . 
She will easily manage to elude her keepers , who are not very strict in watching her , thinking it impossible that she could escape from the island . 
Indeed , I am sure that such an idea will never enter their heads . 
But , as I have said , you run great danger . 
Fifty miles in a small canoe , on the open sea , is a great voyage to make . 
You must count the cost , my young friend . 
I have counted it , replied Jack . 
If Avatea consents to run the risk , most certainly I will and so will my comrades also . 
These we covered with a tarpaulin , intending to convey them to the canoe only a few hours before starting . 
Then we rowed quietly to the shore and followed our sable guide , who led us by a long detour , in order to avoid the village , to the place of rendezvous . 
We had not stood more than five minutes under the gloomy shade of the thick foliage when a dark figure glided noiselessly up to us . 
Ah ! here you are , said Jack , as Avatea approached . 
Now , then , tell her what we've come about , and don't waste time . 
I understan' leetl English , said Avatea , in a low voice . 
Why , where did you pick up English ? exclaimed Jack , in amazement you were dumb as a stone when I saw you last . 
She has learned all she knows of it from me , said the teacher , since she came to the island . 
As we had anticipated , she was too glad of the opportunity thus afforded her to escape from her persecutors to think of the danger or risk . 
Then you're willing to go with us , are you ? said Jack . 
Yis , I am willing to go . 
And you're not afraid to trust yourself out on the deep sea so far ? No , I not 'fraid to go . 
The flight The pursuit Despair and its results The lion bearded in his den again Awful danger threatened and wonderfully averted A terrific storm . 
While we were thus occupied , the teacher remained on board with the Christian natives , whose powerful voices reached us ever and anon as they engaged in singing hymns or in prayer . 
As the keel of our little boat grated on the sand , a hand was laid upon the bow , and a dim form was seen . 
Ha ! said Peterkin in a whisper , as he stepped upon the beach , is that you , Avatea ? Yis , it am me , was the reply . 
All right ! Now , then , gently . 
Help me to shove off the canoe , whispered Jack to the teacher and Peterkin , do you shove these blankets aboard , we may want them before long . 
Avatea , step into the middle that's right . 
Is all ready ? whispered the teacher . 
Not quite , replied Peterkin . 
Here , Ralph , lay hold o' this pair of oars , and stow them away if you can . 
After we're safe away I'll try to rig up rollicks for them . 
Now , then , in with you and shove off . 
Peterkin and I paddled in the bow , and Avatea worked untiringly in the middle . 
As the sun's lower limb dipped on the gilded edge of the sea Jack ceased working , threw down his paddle , and called a halt . 
Hear , hear , cried Peterkin . 
Hand me a drop water , Ralph . 
Why , girl what's wrong with you ? You look just like a black owl blinking in the sunshine . 
I sleepy , she said and as if to prove the truth of this , she laid her head on the edge of the canoe and fell fast asleep . 
That's uncommon sharp practice , said Peterkin , with a broad grin . 
If so , Ralph , you might come round to the front here and feed her quietly , while Jack and I are tucking into the victuals . 
It would be a monstrous economy of time . 
However , don't talk so much , and hand me the pork before Jack finishes it . 
I feel myself entitled to at least one minute morsel . 
Peterkin , you're a villain . 
Were it not that you are incapable of walking upon the water , I would order you , sir , out of the canoe . 
There ! you've wakened Avatea with your long tongue , retorted Peterkin , with a frown , as the girl gave vent to a deep sigh . 
No , he continued , it was only a snore . 
Perchance she dreameth of her black Apollo . 
I say , Ralph , do leave just one little slice of that yam . 
But I cannot feel assured that I actually slept during that time , although I am tolerably certain that I was not awake . 
Thus we lay like a shadow on the still bosom of the ocean , while the night closed in , and all around was calm , dark , and silent . 
A thrilling cry of alarm from Peterkin startled us in the morning , just as the gray dawn began to glimmer in the east . 
What's wrong ? cried Jack , starting up . 
But we did not require to be urged . 
I see something like land ahead , said Jack , in a hopeful tone . 
No one replied for , to say truth , we felt that , in a long chase , we had no chance whatever with a canoe which held nearly a hundred warriors . 
Nevertheless , we resolved to do our utmost to escape , and paddled with a degree of vigour that kept us well in advance of our pursuers . 
We therefore hoped that we should be able to keep in advance for an hour or two , when we might , perhaps , reach the land ahead . 
But we had little time to think of regret . 
Our danger was too great and imminent to permit of a moment's relaxation from our exertions . 
Peterkin took the other oar and also stood up , but there was no anger visible on his countenance . 
Without knowing very well what I intended to do , I also arose and grasped my paddle with both hands . 
Perfect silence was maintained on both sides , and we could hear the hissing water , and see the frowning eyes of the warriors , as they came rushing on . 
When about twenty yards distant , five or six of the savages in the bow rose , and , laying aside their paddles , took up their spears . 
Jack and Peterkin raised their oars , while , with a feeling of madness whirling in my brain , I grasped my paddle and prepared for the onset . 
In this condition we lay the whole day , during which time the savages only rested one hour . 
When night came , they rested again for another hour , and appeared to sleep just as they sat . 
But we were neither unbound nor allowed to speak to each other during the voyage , nor was a morsel of food or a draught of water given to us . 
The air , also , was unusually hot , so much so that I felt convinced that a storm was brewing . 
This also added to our sufferings . 
However , these were at length relieved by our arrival at the island from which we had fled . 
While we were being led ashore , we caught a glimpse of Avatea , who was seated in the hinder part of the canoe . 
She was not fettered in any way . 
Our friend the teacher stood beside him , with a look of anxiety on his mild features . 
I came to the island to deliver Avatea , and my only regret is that I have failed to do so . 
If I get another chance , I will try to save her yet . 
The teacher shook his head . 
Nay , my young friend , I had better not tell him that . 
It will only incense him . 
Fear not , replied Jack . 
If you don't tell him that , you'll tell him nothing , for I won't say anything softer . 
On hearing Jack's speech , Tararo frowned and his eye flashed with anger . 
Go , he said , presumptuous boy . 
My debt to you is cancelled . 
You and your companions shall die . 
Here they thrust us into a species of natural cave in a cliff , and , having barricaded the entrance , left us in total darkness . 
On this we seated ourselves , and for a long time maintained unbroken silence . 
At last I could restrain my feelings no longer . 
Alas ! dear Jack and Peterkin , said I , what is to become of us ? I fear that we are doomed to die . 
Perhaps the teacher may do something for us . 
But I have little hope . 
Ah ! no , said Peterkin , with a heavy sigh I am sure he can't help us . 
Tararo doesn't care more for him than for one of his dogs . 
Truly , said I , there seems no chance of deliverance , unless the Almighty puts forth his arm to save us . 
I was interrupted in my remarks by a noise at the entrance to the cavern , which was caused by the removal of the barricade . 
Immediately after , three men entered , and , taking us by the collars of our coats , led us away through the forest . 
But in this we were mistaken . 
The beating of drums gradually increased , and soon after we observed a procession of the natives coming towards us . 
But deliverance came suddenly from a quarter whence we little expected it . 
During the whole of that day there had been an unusual degree of heat in the atmosphere , and the sky assumed that lurid aspect which portends a thunder storm . 
Thank the Lord , he said , cutting our bonds , I am in time ! Now , seek the shelter of the nearest rock . 
In the village the scene was absolutely appalling . 
Roofs were blown completely off the houses in many cases and in others , the houses themselves were levelled with the ground . 
But , terrific although the tempest was on land , it was still more tremendous on the mighty ocean . 
But they did not end there . 
But no sooner had we obtained food than we began to wish that we had rather endeavoured to make our escape into the mountains . 
Thus we were again prisoners , with the prospect of torture and a violent death before us . 
Imprisonment Sinking hopes Unexpected freedom to more than one , and in more senses than one . 
But we seldom ventured to touch upon the future . 
A few decayed leaves and boughs formed our bed and a scanty supply of yams and taro , brought to us once a day , constituted our food . 
Well , Ralph , how have you slept ? said Jack , in a listless tone , on rising one morning from his humble couch . 
And I dreamed , too , said Peterkin but it was of our happy home on the Coral Island . 
His voice trembled , and , covering his face with both hands , he bent down his head and wept . 
Thus we sat for some time in deep silence . 
Soon after , we heard footsteps at the entrance of the cave , and immediately our jailer entered . 
After cutting our bonds , the savage pointed to the cave's mouth , and we marched , almost mechanically , into the open air . 
Here , to our surprise , we found the teacher standing under a tree , with his hands clasped before him , and the tears trickling down his dark cheeks . 
Ay , free , repeated the teacher , shaking us warmly by the hands again and again free to go and come as you will . 
The Lord has unloosed the bands of the captive and set the prisoners free . 
We could scarcely credit our senses . 
So long had we been accustomed in our cavern to dream of deliverance , that we imagined for a moment this must surely be nothing more than another vivid dream . 
It was replied to by a shout from a number of the natives who chanced to be near . 
Running towards us , they shook us by the hand with every demonstration of kindly feeling . 
They then fell behind , and , forming a sort of procession , conducted us to the dwelling of Tararo . 
The scene that met our eyes here was one that I shall never forget . 
On a rude bench in front of his house sat the chief . 
A native stood on his left hand , who , from his dress , seemed to be a teacher . 
On his right stood an English gentleman , who , I at once and rightly concluded , was a missionary . 
He was tall , thin , and apparently past forty , with a bald forehead , and thin gray hair . 
The expression of his countenance was the most winning I ever saw , and his clear gray eye beamed with a look that was frank , fearless , loving , and truthful . 
A bright smile overspread the missionary's face as he advanced quickly to meet us , and he shook us warmly by the hands . 
I am overjoyed to meet you , my dear young friends , he said . 
We thanked the missionary most heartily , and asked him in some surprise how he had succeeded in turning the heart of Tararo in our favour . 
I will tell you that at a more convenient time , he answered , meanwhile we must not forget the respect due to the chief . 
He waits to receive you . 
Moreover , he told us that we were at liberty to depart in our schooner whenever we pleased , and that we should be supplied with as much provision as we required . 
He concluded by shaking hands with us warmly , and performing the ceremony of rubbing noses . 
This was indeed good news to us , and we could hardly find words to express our gratitude to the chief and to the missionary . 
And what of Avatea ? inquired Jack . 
The missionary replied by pointing to a group of natives in the midst of whom the girl stood . 
Beside her was a tall , strapping fellow , whose noble mien and air of superiority bespoke him a chief of no ordinary kind . 
That youth is her lover . 
He came this very morning in his war canoe to treat with Tararo for Avatea . 
I wish you joy , my lad and you too , Avatea . 
Your heart also is large and very brave . 
You have risked your life for one who was known to you only for a few days . 
But she was a woman in distress , and that was enough to secure to her the aid of a Christian man . 
We , who live in these islands of the sea , know that the true Christians always act thus . 
Their religion is one of love and kindness . 
We thank God that so many Christians have been sent here we hope many more will come . 
Remember that I and Avatea will think of you and pray for you and your brave comrades when you are far away . 
But Jack's forte did not lie in speech making , so he terminated rather abruptly by seizing the chief's hand and shaking it violently , after which he made a hasty retreat . 
TO part is the lot of all mankind . 
, and show that we have sympathy with them in the short quick struggle of life , by our kindly words and looks and action . 
He proved himself to be sincere , for , as we have seen , he persuaded all his people to do likewise . 
He set the example , therefore and that example was followed by almost every man of the tribe . 
After Avatea was married , she and her husband were sent away , loaded with presents , chiefly of an edible nature . 
We now resolved to delay our departure no longer . 
The desire to see our beloved native land was strong upon us , and we could not wait . 
It was a bright clear morning when we hoisted the snow white sails of the pirate schooner and left the shores of Mango . 
The missionary , and thousands of the natives , came down to bid us God speed , and to see us sail away . 
As the vessel bent before a light fair wind , we glided quickly over the lagoon under a cloud of canvass . 
