The Castle of Otranto by Horace Walpole Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk The Castle of Otranto PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION . 
THE following work was found in the library of an ancient Catholic family in the north of England . 
It was printed at Naples , in the black letter , in the year . 
How much sooner it was written does not appear . 
The principal incidents are such as were believed in the darkest ages of Christianity but the language and conduct have nothing that savours of barbarism . 
The style is the purest Italian . 
concur to make me think that the date of the composition was little antecedent to that of the impression . 
Letters were then in their most flourishing state in Italy , and contributed to dispel the empire of superstition , at that time so forcibly attacked by the reformers . 
If this was his view , he has certainly acted with signal address . 
Such a work as the following would enslave a hundred vulgar minds beyond half the books of controversy that have been written from the days of Luther to the present hour . 
This solution of the author's motives is , however , offered as a mere conjecture . 
Whatever his views were , or whatever effects the execution of them might have , his work can only be laid before the public at present as a matter of entertainment . 
Even as such , some apology for it is necessary . 
Miracles , visions , necromancy , dreams , and other preternatural events , are exploded now even from romances . 
That was not the case when our author wrote much less when the story itself is supposed to have happened . 
He is not bound to believe them himself , but he must represent his actors as believing them . 
If this air of the miraculous is excused , the reader will find nothing else unworthy of his perusal . 
Allow the possibility of the facts , and all the actors comport themselves as persons would do in their situation . 
There is no bombast , no similes , flowers , digressions , or unnecessary descriptions . 
Everything tends directly to the catastrophe . 
Never is the reader's attention relaxed . 
The rules of the drama are almost observed throughout the conduct of the piece . 
The characters are well drawn , and still better maintained . 
They discover many passages essential to the story , which could not be well brought to light but by their NAIVETE and simplicity . 
In particular , the womanish terror and foibles of Bianca , in the last chapter , conduce essentially towards advancing the catastrophe . 
It is natural for a translator to be prejudiced in favour of his adopted work . 
More impartial readers may not be so much struck with the beauties of this piece as I was . 
Yet I am not blind to my author's defects . 
I could wish he had grounded his plan on a more useful moral than this that the sins of fathers are visited on their children to the third and fourth generation . 
I doubt whether , in his time , any more than at present , ambition curbed its appetite of dominion from the dread of so remote a punishment . 
And yet this moral is weakened by that less direct insinuation , that even such anathema may be diverted by devotion to St . 
Here the interest of the Monk plainly gets the better of the judgment of the author . 
However , with all its faults , I have no doubt but the English reader will be pleased with a sight of this performance . 
Should it meet with the success I hope for , I may be encouraged to reprint the original Italian , though it will tend to depreciate my own labour . 
Our language falls far short of the charms of the Italian , both for variety and harmony . 
The latter is peculiarly excellent for simple narrative . 
It is difficult in English to relate without falling too low or rising too high a fault obviously occasioned by the little care taken to speak pure language in common conversation . 
Every Italian or Frenchman of any rank piques himself on speaking his own tongue correctly and with choice . 
I cannot flatter myself with having done justice to my author in this respect his style is as elegant as his conduct of the passions is masterly . 
It is a pity that he did not apply his talents to what they were evidently proper for the theatre . 
I will detain the reader no longer , but to make one short remark . 
Though the machinery is invention , and the names of the actors imaginary , I cannot but believe that the groundwork of the story is founded on truth . 
The scene is undoubtedly laid in some real castle . 
The author seems frequently , without design , to describe particular parts . 
Curious persons , who have leisure to employ in such researches , may possibly discover in the Italian writers the foundation on which our author has built . 
SONNET TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE LADY MARY COKE . 
Oh ! guard the marvels I relate Of fell ambition scourg'd by fate , From reason's peevish blame . 
Blest with thy smile , my dauntless sail I dare expand to Fancy's gale , For sure thy smiles are Fame . 
H. W. CHAPTER I. MANFRED , Prince of Otranto , had one son and one daughter the latter , a most beautiful virgin , aged eighteen , was called Matilda . 
Manfred's impatience for this ceremonial was remarked by his family and neighbours . 
The former , indeed , apprehending the severity of their Prince's disposition , did not dare to utter their surmises on this precipitation . 
His tenants and subjects were less cautious in their discourses . 
It was difficult to make any sense of this prophecy and still less easy to conceive what it had to do with the marriage in question . 
Yet these mysteries , or contradictions , did not make the populace adhere the less to their opinion . 
Young Conrad's birthday was fixed for his espousals . 
The company was assembled in the chapel of the Castle , and everything ready for beginning the divine office , when Conrad himself was missing . 
Manfred , impatient of the least delay , and who had not observed his son retire , despatched one of his attendants to summon the young Prince . 
He said nothing , but pointed to the court . 
The company were struck with terror and amazement . 
The Princess Hippolita , without knowing what was the matter , but anxious for her son , swooned away . 
Manfred , who began to be alarmed at not seeing his son , went himself to get information of what occasioned this strange confusion . 
The first thing that struck Manfred's eyes was a group of his servants endeavouring to raise something that appeared to him a mountain of sable plumes . 
He gazed without believing his sight . 
The horror of the spectacle , the ignorance of all around how this misfortune had happened , and above all , the tremendous phenomenon before him , took away the Prince's speech . 
Yet his silence lasted longer than even grief could occasion . 
He touched , he examined the fatal casque nor could even the bleeding mangled remains of the young Prince divert the eyes of Manfred from the portent before him . 
All who had known his partial fondness for young Conrad , were as much surprised at their Prince's insensibility , as thunderstruck themselves at the miracle of the helmet . 
They conveyed the disfigured corpse into the hall , without receiving the least direction from Manfred . 
As little was he attentive to the ladies who remained in the chapel . 
On the contrary , without mentioning the unhappy princesses , his wife and daughter , the first sounds that dropped from Manfred's lips were , Take care of the Lady Isabella . 
They conveyed her to her chamber more dead than alive , and indifferent to all the strange circumstances she heard , except the death of her son . 
Matilda , who doted on her mother , smothered her own grief and amazement , and thought of nothing but assisting and comforting her afflicted parent . 
Yet her own situation could not help finding its place in her thoughts . 
The few words he articulated , tended solely to inquiries , whether any man knew from whence it could have come ? Nobody could give him the least information . 
The spectators , who as little comprehended the cause of the Prince's fury as all the rest they had seen , were at a loss to unravel this new circumstance . 
The young peasant himself was still more astonished , not conceiving how he had offended the Prince . 
It was in vain for the youth to represent against this preposterous sentence in vain did Manfred's friends endeavour to divert him from this savage and ill grounded resolution . 
The gentle timidity of her nature made her pause for some minutes at his door . 
She heard him traverse his chamber backwards , and forwards with disordered steps a mood which increased her apprehensions . 
Manfred , stepping back hastily , cried , Begone ! I do not want a daughter and flinging back abruptly , clapped the door against the terrified Matilda . 
She was too well acquainted with her father's impetuosity to venture a second intrusion . 
Matilda assured her he was well , and supported his misfortune with manly fortitude . 
Bear me to him instantly he is dearer to me even than my children . 
With me ! cried Isabella . 
Go , said Hippolita , relieved by a message from her Lord Manfred cannot support the sight of his own family . 
He thinks you less disordered than we are , and dreads the shock of my grief . 
Console him , dear Isabella , and tell him I will smother my own anguish rather than add to his . 
As it was now evening the servant who conducted Isabella bore a torch before her . 
When they came to Manfred , who was walking impatiently about the gallery , he started , and said hastily Take away that light , and begone . 
Then shutting the door impetuously , he flung himself upon a bench against the wall , and bade Isabella sit by him . 
I sent for you , Lady , said he and then stopped under great appearance of confusion . 
My Lord ! Yes , I sent for you on a matter of great moment , resumed he . 
Dry your tears , young Lady you have lost your bridegroom . 
Yes , cruel fate ! and I have lost the hopes of my race ! But Conrad was not worthy of your beauty . 
The line of Manfred calls for numerous supports . 
My foolish fondness for that boy blinded the eyes of my prudence but it is better as it is . 
I hope , in a few years , to have reason to rejoice at the death of Conrad . 
Words cannot paint the astonishment of Isabella . 
At first she apprehended that grief had disordered Manfred's understanding . 
Conrad would have engrossed all my care and wherever fate shall dispose of me , I shall always cherish his memory , and regard your Highness and the virtuous Hippolita as my parents . 
Curse on Hippolita ! cried Manfred . 
Forget her from this moment , as I do . 
In short , Lady , you have missed a husband undeserving of your charms they shall now be better disposed of . 
Alas , my Lord ! said Isabella , my mind is too sadly engrossed by the recent catastrophe in your family to think of another marriage . 
I desired you once before , said Manfred angrily , not to name that woman from this hour she must be a stranger to you , as she must be to me . 
In short , Isabella , since I cannot give you my son , I offer you myself . 
Too long has she cursed me by her unfruitfulness . 
My fate depends on having sons , and this night I trust will give a new date to my hopes . 
At those words he seized the cold hand of Isabella , who was half dead with fright and horror . 
At that instant the portrait of his grandfather , which hung over the bench where they had been sitting , uttered a deep sigh , and heaved its breast . 
Lead on ! cried Manfred I will follow thee to the gulf of perdition . 
The spectre marched sedately , but dejected , to the end of the gallery , and turned into a chamber on the right hand . 
Manfred accompanied him at a little distance , full of anxiety and horror , but resolved . 
As he would have entered the chamber , the door was clapped to with violence by an invisible hand . 
The Prince , collecting courage from this delay , would have forcibly burst open the door with his foot , but found that it resisted his utmost efforts . 
Since Hell will not satisfy my curiosity , said Manfred , I will use the human means in my power for preserving my race Isabella shall not escape me . 
The lady , whose resolution had given way to terror the moment she had quitted Manfred , continued her flight to the bottom of the principal staircase . 
There she stopped , not knowing whither to direct her steps , nor how to escape from the impetuosity of the Prince . 
The gates of the castle , she knew , were locked , and guards placed in the court . 
In this resolution , she seized a lamp that burned at the foot of the staircase , and hurried towards the secret passage . 
The lower part of the castle was hollowed into several intricate cloisters and it was not easy for one under so much anxiety to find the door that opened into the cavern . 
Every murmur struck her with new terror yet more she dreaded to hear the wrathful voice of Manfred urging his domestics to pursue her . 
She trod as softly as impatience would give her leave , yet frequently stopped and listened to hear if she was followed . 
In one of those moments she thought she heard a sigh . 
She shuddered , and recoiled a few paces . 
In a moment she thought she heard the step of some person . 
Her blood curdled she concluded it was Manfred . 
Every suggestion that horror could inspire rushed into her mind . 
She condemned her rash flight , which had thus exposed her to his rage in a place where her cries were not likely to draw anybody to her assistance . 
Yet the sound seemed not to come from behind . 
If Manfred knew where she was , he must have followed her . 
She was still in one of the cloisters , and the steps she had heard were too distinct to proceed from the way she had come . 
Isabella , whom every incident was sufficient to dismay , hesitated whether she should proceed . 
Her dread of Manfred soon outweighed every other terror . 
The very circumstance of the person avoiding her gave her a sort of courage . 
It could only be , she thought , some domestic belonging to the castle . 
Words cannot paint the horror of the Princess's situation . 
She addressed herself to every saint in heaven , and inwardly implored their assistance . 
For a considerable time she remained in an agony of despair . 
She advanced eagerly towards this chasm , when she discerned a human form standing close against the wall . 
She shrieked , believing it the ghost of her betrothed Conrad . 
The figure , advancing , said , in a submissive voice Be not alarmed , Lady I will not injure you . 
Assist me to escape from this fatal castle , or in a few moments I may be made miserable for ever . 
Saying a these words , she felt about on the pavement , and directed the stranger to search likewise , for a smooth piece of brass enclosed in one of the stones . 
That , said she , is the lock , which opens with a spring , of which I know the secret . 
I value not my life , said the stranger , and it will be some comfort to lose it in trying to deliver you from his tyranny . 
Oh ! transport ! said Isabella here is the trap door ! and , taking out the key , she touched the spring , which , starting aside , discovered an iron ring . 
Lift up the door , said the Princess . 
The stranger obeyed , and beneath appeared some stone steps descending into a vault totally dark . 
We must go down here , said Isabella . 
Follow me dark and dismal as it is , we cannot miss our way it leads directly to the church of St . 
Oh , heavens ! cried Isabella it is the voice of Manfred ! Make haste , or we are ruined ! and shut the trap door after you . 
He tried in vain to open it , not having observed Isabella's method of touching the spring nor had he many moments to make an essay . 
The noise of the falling door had been heard by Manfred , who , directed by the sound , hastened thither , attended by his servants with torches . 
It must be Isabella , cried Manfred , before he entered the vault . 
She is escaping by the subterraneous passage , but she cannot have got far . 
I am no traitor , replied the young man boldly , nor am I answerable for your thoughts . 
Presumptuous villain ! cried Manfred dost thou provoke my wrath ? Tell me , how hast thou escaped from above ? Thou hast corrupted thy guards , and their lives shall answer it . 
Art thou so hardy as to dare my vengeance ? said the Prince but tortures shall force the truth from thee . 
Tell me I will know thy accomplices . 
There was my accomplice ! said the youth , smiling , and pointing to the roof . 
Was that the way by which thou didst descend ? said Manfred . 
It was , said the youth . 
But what noise was that , said Manfred , which I heard as I entered the cloister ? A door clapped , said the peasant I heard it as well as you . 
What door ? said Manfred hastily . 
, it was this way I heard the noise . 
My servants heard it too . 
My Lord , interrupted one of them officiously , to be sure it was the trap door , and he was going to make his escape . 
Tell me truly thy life depends on thy veracity . 
My veracity is dearer to me than my life , said the peasant nor would I purchase the one by forfeiting the other . 
But what told thee it was a lock ? said Manfred . 
How didst thou discover the secret of opening it ? Providence , that delivered me from the helmet , was able to direct me to the spring of a lock , said he . 
Providence should have gone a little farther , and have placed thee out of the reach of my resentment , said Manfred . 
When Providence had taught thee to open the lock , it abandoned thee for a fool , who did not know how to make use of its favours . 
Wherever those steps lead to , perhaps I should have explored the way I could not be in a worse situation than I was . 
But the truth is , I let the trap door fall your immediate arrival followed . 
Thou hast not yet told me how thou didst open the lock . 
This presence of mind , joined to the frankness of the youth , staggered Manfred . 
He even felt a disposition towards pardoning one who had been guilty of no crime . 
Manfred was not one of those savage tyrants who wanton in cruelty unprovoked . 
While the Prince was in this suspense , a confused noise of voices echoed through the distant vaults . 
Grant me patience ! said Manfred these blockheads distract me . 
For Heaven's sake , my dear , good Lord , cried Jaquez , do not go to the gallery . 
Satan himself I believe is in the chamber next to the gallery . 
Manfred , who hitherto had treated the terror of his servants as an idle panic , was struck at this new circumstance . 
He recollected the apparition of the portrait , and the sudden closing of the door at the end of the gallery . 
We looked under every bench and stool and still we found nobody . 
Were all the pictures in their places ? said Manfred . 
Yes , my Lord , answered Jaquez but we did not think of looking behind them . 
Well , well ! said Manfred proceed . 
When we came to the door of the great chamber , continued Jaquez , we found it shut . 
And could not you open it ? said Manfred . 
I ! my Lord ! said Jaquez I was behind Diego but I heard the noise . 
Diego had no sooner opened the door , than he cried out , and ran back . 
Ay , pray do , my Lord , cried all the servants at once , or we must leave your Highness's service . 
Peace , dotards ! said Manfred , and follow me I will know what all this means . 
We ! my Lord ! cried they with one voice we would not go up to the gallery for your Highness's revenue . 
The young peasant , who had stood silent , now spoke . 
Will your Highness , said he , permit me to try this adventure ? My life is of consequence to nobody I fear no bad angel , and have offended no good one . 
However , I give you leave to accompany me . 
Manfred , when he first followed Isabella from the gallery , had gone directly to the apartment of his wife , concluding the Princess had retired thither . 
Hippolita , who knew his step , rose with anxious fondness to meet her Lord , whom she had not seen since the death of their son . 
Yes , Isabella , cried Manfred imperiously I want Isabella . 
My Lord , replied Matilda , who perceived how much his behaviour had shocked her mother , she has not been with us since your Highness summoned her to your apartment . 
Tell me where she is , said the Prince I do not want to know where she has been . 
Isabella shall wait your orders in the morning . 
What , then , you know where she is ! cried Manfred . 
Tell me directly , for I will not lose an instant and you , woman , speaking to his wife , order your chaplain to attend me forthwith . 
Isabella , said Hippolita calmly , is retired , I suppose , to her chamber she is not accustomed to watch at this late hour . 
Gracious my Lord , continued she , let me know what has disturbed you . 
Has Isabella offended you ? Trouble me not with questions , said Manfred , but tell me where she is . 
Matilda shall call her , said the Princess . 
Sit down , my Lord , and resume your wonted fortitude . 
Send your chaplain to me , and wait my pleasure here . 
Manfred was now returning from the vault , attended by the peasant and a few of his servants whom he had obliged to accompany him . 
He ascended the staircase without stopping till he arrived at the gallery , at the door of which he met Hippolita and her chaplain . 
When Diego had been dismissed by Manfred , he had gone directly to the Princess's apartment with the alarm of what he had seen . 
That excellent Lady , who no more than Manfred doubted of the reality of the vision , yet affected to treat it as a delirium of the servant . 
She and the chaplain had examined the chamber , and found everything in the usual order . 
The next transition of his soul was to exquisite villainy . 
Coming to himself , he gave orders that every avenue to the castle should be strictly guarded , and charged his domestics on pain of their lives to suffer nobody to pass out . 
Then dismissing his attendants , and bestowing a sullen kind of half nod on Hippolita , he retired to his own chamber . 
MATILDA , who by Hippolita's order had retired to her apartment , was ill disposed to take any rest . 
The shocking fate of her brother had deeply affected her . 
She waited anxiously for the return of Bianca , a young damsel that attended her , whom she had sent to learn what was become of Isabella . 
Bianca soon appeared , and informed her mistress of what she had gathered from the servants , that Isabella was nowhere to be found . 
This last circumstance had terrified Bianca so much , that she was rejoiced when Matilda told her that she would not go to rest , but would watch till the Princess should rise . 
The young Princess wearied herself in conjectures on the flight of Isabella , and on the threats of Manfred to her mother . 
As you are become his heiress , he is impatient to have you married he has always been raving for more sons I warrant he is now impatient for grandsons . 
As sure as I live , Madam , I shall see you a bride at last . 
Good madam , you won't cast off your faithful Bianca you won't put Donna Rosara over me now you are a great Princess . 
I can support his harshness to me with patience but it wounds my soul when I am witness to his causeless severity towards her . 
Oh ! Madam , said Bianca , all men use their wives so , when they are weary of them . 
Bless me ! what noise is that ! St . 
Nicholas forgive me ! I was but in jest . 
It is the wind , said Matilda , whistling through the battlements in the tower above you have heard it a thousand times . 
If you must pray , why does she not bid you address yourself to our great St . 
Nicholas ? I am sure he is the saint I pray to for a husband . 
Bianca , said the Princess , I do not allow you to mention my friend disrespectfully . 
Isabella is of a cheerful disposition , but her soul is pure as virtue itself . 
Indeed ! indeed ! Madam , said Bianca , half weeping with agony , I am sure I heard a voice . 
Does anybody lie in the chamber beneath ? said the Princess . 
Nobody has dared to lie there , answered Bianca , since the great astrologer , that was your brother's tutor , drowned himself . 
If they are spirits in pain , we may ease their sufferings by questioning them . 
Oh ! dear Lady , I would not speak to a ghost for the world ! cried Bianca . 
As she said those words they heard the casement of the little chamber below Matilda's open . 
They listened attentively , and in a few minutes thought they heard a person sing , but could not distinguish the words . 
This can be no evil spirit , said the Princess , in a low voice it is undoubtedly one of the family open the window , and we shall know the voice . 
I dare not , indeed , Madam , said Bianca . 
Thou art a very fool , said Matilda , opening the window gently herself . 
The noise the Princess made was , however , heard by the person beneath , who stopped and they concluded had heard the casement open . 
Is anybody below ? said the Princess if there is , speak . 
Yes , said an unknown voice . 
Who is it ? said Matilda . 
A stranger , replied the voice . 
But pardon me , Lady , if I have disturbed your rest I knew not that I was overheard . 
Sleep had forsaken me I left a restless couch , and came to waste the irksome hours with gazing on the fair approach of morning , impatient to be dismissed from this castle . 
Thy words and accents , said Matilda , are of melancholy cast if thou art unhappy , I pity thee . 
If poverty afflicts thee , let me know it I will mention thee to the Princess , whose beneficent soul ever melts for the distressed , and she will relieve thee . 
I am indeed unhappy , said the stranger and I know not what wealth is . 
He does not know you , but takes you for one of my Lady Hippolita's women . 
Art thou not ashamed , Bianca ! said the Princess . 
What right have we to pry into the secrets of this young man's heart ? He seems virtuous and frank , and tells us he is unhappy . 
And would you have ME become a peasant's confidante ? said the Princess . 
Well , then , let me talk to him , said Bianca though I have the honour of being your Highness's maid of honour , I was not always so great . 
Besides , if love levels ranks , it raises them too I have a respect for any young man in love . 
Peace , simpleton ! said the Princess . 
Though he said he was unhappy , it does not follow that he must be in love . 
Think of all that has happened to day , and tell me if there are no misfortunes but what love causes . 
When thou art dismissed from this castle , repair to holy father Jerome , at the convent adjoining to the church of St . 
Nicholas , and make thy story known to him , as far as thou thinkest meet . 
He will not fail to inform the Princess , who is the mother of all that want her assistance . 
Farewell it is not seemly for me to hold farther converse with a man at this unwonted hour . 
Thy first words bespoke a prudent and becoming gravity . 
Dost thou come hither to pry into the secrets of Manfred ? Adieu . 
I have been mistaken in thee . 
Saying these words she shut the casement hastily , without giving the young man time to reply . 
Well ! he is killed just in a critical minute I accuse nobody . 
To be sure , said Matilda , thy observations are not totally without foundation Isabella's flight amazes me . 
The curiosity of the stranger is very particular yet Isabella never concealed a thought from me . 
No , replied Matilda , I will ask him myself , if he knows aught of Isabella he is not worthy I should converse farther with him . 
This prevented the Princess from renewing the conversation with the stranger . 
After continuing silent for some time , I am persuaded , said she to Bianca , that whatever be the cause of Isabella's flight it had no unworthy motive . 
If this stranger was accessory to it , she must be satisfied with his fidelity and worth . 
I observed , did not you , Bianca ? that his words were tinctured with an uncommon infusion of piety . 
It was no ruffian's speech his phrases were becoming a man of gentle birth . 
I told you , Madam , said Bianca , that I was sure he was some Prince in disguise . 
I do not doubt but he has some talisman or other about him . 
Didst thou not observe with what fervour he vowed to remember ME to heaven in his prayers ? Yes Isabella was undoubtedly convinced of his piety . 
Commend me to the piety of a young fellow and a damsel that consult to elope ! said Bianca . 
No , no , Madam , my Lady Isabella is of another guess mould than you take her for . 
She wished to see me married , though my dower would have been a loss to her and my brother's children . 
For her sake I will believe well of this young peasant . 
Then you do think there is some liking between them , said Bianca . 
While she was speaking , a servant came hastily into the chamber and told the Princess that the Lady Isabella was found . 
She has taken sanctuary in St . 
Nicholas's church , replied the servant Father Jerome has brought the news himself he is below with his Highness . 
Where is my mother ? said Matilda . 
She is in her own chamber , Madam , and has asked for you . 
Manfred had risen at the first dawn of light , and gone to Hippolita's apartment , to inquire if she knew aught of Isabella . 
While he was questioning her , word was brought that Jerome demanded to speak with him . 
Is your business with me or the Princess ? said Manfred . 
With both , replied the holy man . 
The Lady Isabella What of her ? interrupted Manfred , eagerly . 
Nicholas's altar , replied Jerome . 
That is no business of Hippolita , said Manfred with confusion let us retire to my chamber , Father , and inform me how she came thither . 
My Lord , said the holy man , I am no intruder into the secrets of families . 
My office is to promote peace , to heal divisions , to preach repentance , and teach mankind to curb their headstrong passions . 
I forgive your Highness's uncharitable apostrophe I know my duty , and am the minister of a mightier prince than Manfred . 
Hearken to him who speaks through my organs . 
Manfred trembled with rage and shame . 
Hippolita's countenance declared her astonishment and impatience to know where this would end . 
Her silence more strongly spoke her observance of Manfred . 
Your Highness will recollect whether that can any longer be proper , replied the Friar . 
Am I to be bearded in my own palace by an insolent Monk ? Thou art privy , I guess , to their amours . 
I would pray to heaven to clear up your uncharitable surmises , said Jerome , if your Highness were not satisfied in your conscience how unjustly you accuse me . 
Cant not to me , said Manfred , but return and bring the Princess to her duty . 
It is my duty to prevent her return hither , said Jerome . 
She is where orphans and virgins are safest from the snares and wiles of this world and nothing but a parent's authority shall take her thence . 
I am her parent , cried Manfred , and demand her . 
Attend the Prince to his chamber . 
Excellent woman ! said the Friar . 
My Lord , I attend your pleasure . 
Now hear my resolve , and obey . 
Reasons of state , most urgent reasons , my own and the safety of my people , demand that I should have a son . 
It is in vain to expect an heir from Hippolita . 
I have made choice of Isabella . 
You must bring her back and you must do more . 
I know the influence you have with Hippolita her conscience is in your hands . 
She is , I allow , a faultless woman her soul is set on heaven , and scorns the little grandeur of this world you can withdraw her from it entirely . 
Thus you will divert the calamities that are hanging over our heads , and have the merit of saying the principality of Otranto from destruction . 
The will of heaven be done ! said the Friar . 
I am but its worthless instrument . 
It makes use of my tongue to tell thee , Prince , of thy unwarrantable designs . 
The injuries of the virtuous Hippolita have mounted to the throne of pity . 
By me thou art reprimanded for thy adulterous intention of repudiating her by me thou art warned not to pursue the incestuous design on thy contracted daughter . 
Heaven that delivered her from thy fury , when the judgments so recently fallen on thy house ought to have inspired thee with other thoughts , will continue to watch over her . 
The sceptre , which passed from the race of Alfonso to thine , cannot be preserved by a match which the church will never allow . 
Come , my Lord I like this sorrow let us return to the Princess she is not apprised of your cruel intentions nor did I mean more than to alarm you . 
You saw with what gentle patience , with what efforts of love , she heard , she rejected hearing , the extent of your guilt . 
I know she longs to fold you in her arms , and assure you of her unalterable affection . 
For some time the holy man remained absorbed in thought . 
At length , conceiving some hopes from delay , he thought the wisest conduct would be to prevent the Prince from despairing of recovering Isabella . 
The well meaning priest suffered him to deceive himself , fully determined to traverse his views , instead of seconding them . 
Since we now understand one another , resumed the Prince , I expect , Father , that you satisfy me in one point . 
She herself was so conscious of it , that while I discoursed her in the gallery , she outran my suspicious , and endeavoured to justify herself from coolness to Conrad . 
With this unhappy policy , he answered in a manner to confirm Manfred in the belief of some connection between Isabella and the youth . 
The Prince , whose passions wanted little fuel to throw them into a blaze , fell into a rage at the idea of what the Friar suggested . 
Please to repeat your questions , my Lord I am ready to give you all the satisfaction in my power . 
You know my questions , replied the Prince , and only want time to prepare an evasion . 
Speak directly who art thou ? and how long hast thou been known to the Princess ? I am a labourer at the next village , said the peasant my name is Theodore . 
The Princess found me in the vault last night before that hour I never was in her presence . 
I may believe as much or as little as I please of this , said Manfred but I will hear thy own story before I examine into the truth of it . 
Tell me , what reason did the Princess give thee for making her escape ? thy life depends on thy answer . 
During this examination , Matilda was going to the apartment of Hippolita . 
At the upper end of the hall , where Manfred sat , was a boarded gallery with latticed windows , through which Matilda and Bianca were to pass . 
Hearing her father's voice , and seeing the servants assembled round him , she stopped to learn the occasion . 
His person was noble , handsome , and commanding , even in that situation but his countenance soon engrossed her whole care . 
This bravado , said he , surpasses all thy former insolence . 
Thou shalt experience the wrath with which thou darest to trifle . 
Seize him , continued Manfred , and 'bind him the first news the Princess hears of her champion shall be , that he has lost his head for her sake . 
The injustice of which thou art guilty towards me , said Theodore , convinces me that I have done a good deed in delivering the Princess from thy tyranny . 
May she be happy , whatever becomes of me ! This is a lover ! cried Manfred in a rage a peasant within sight of death is not animated by such sentiments . 
Tell me , tell me , rash boy , who thou art , or the rack shall force thy secret from thee . 
Then thou wilt not speak ? said Manfred . 
I will not , replied he . 
Bear him away into the courtyard , said Manfred I will see his head this instant severed from his body . 
Matilda fainted at hearing those words . 
The undaunted youth received the bitter sentence with a resignation that touched every heart but Manfred's . 
He wished earnestly to know the meaning of the words he had heard relating to the Princess but fearing to exasperate the tyrant more against her , he desisted . 
The only boon he deigned to ask was , that he might be permitted to have a confessor , and make his peace with heaven . 
He accused himself in the bitterest terms for his indiscretion , endeavoured to disculpate the youth , and left no method untried to soften the tyrant's rage . 
Nor do I ask many , my Lord , said the unhappy young man . 
My sins , thank heaven , have not been numerous nor exceed what might be expected at my years . 
Dry your tears , good Father , and let us despatch . 
This is a bad world nor have I had cause to leave it with regret . 
Hear my confession , Father and give me thy blessing . 
How can I prepare thee for thy passage as I ought ? said Jerome . 
Thou canst not be saved without pardoning thy foes and canst thou forgive that impious man there ? I can , said Theodore I do . 
And does not this touch thee , cruel Prince ? said the Friar . 
I sent for thee to confess him , said Manfred , sternly not to plead for him . 
Thou didst first incense me against him his blood be upon thy head ! It will ! it will ! said the good main , in an agony of sorrow . 
Prepare thee , for this moment is thy last . 
As he stooped , his shirt slipped down below his shoulder , and discovered the mark of a bloody arrow . 
Gracious heaven ! cried the holy man , starting what do I see ? It is my child ! my Theodore ! The passions that ensued must be conceived they cannot be painted . 
The tears of the assistants were suspended by wonder , rather than stopped by joy . 
They seemed to inquire in the eyes of their Lord what they ought to feel . 
Surprise , doubt , tenderness , respect , succeeded each other in the countenance of the youth . 
He received with modest submission the effusion of the old man's tears and embraces . 
He forgot his anger in his astonishment yet his pride forbad his owning himself affected . 
He even doubted whether this discovery was not a contrivance of the Friar to save the youth . 
What may this mean ? said he . 
Spare him ! spare him ! cried the attendants for this good man's sake ! Peace ! said Manfred , sternly . 
I must know more ere I am disposed to pardon . 
A Saint's bastard may be no saint himself . 
Injurious Lord ! said Theodore , add not insult to cruelty . 
He is my lawful son , and Sicily can boast of few houses more ancient than that of Falconara . 
But alas ! my Lord , what is blood ! what is nobility ! We are all reptiles , miserable , sinful creatures . 
It is piety alone that can distinguish us from the dust whence we sprung , and whither we must return . 
Truce to your sermon , said Manfred you forget you are no longer Friar Jerome , but the Count of Falconara . 
Let me know your history you will have time to moralise hereafter , if you should not happen to obtain the grace of that sturdy criminal there . 
Is she , Theodore , is she dead ? Her soul has long been with the blessed , said Theodore . 
Oh ! my Lord , said Jerome , is my honesty the price I must pay for this dear youth's safety ? For me ! cried Theodore . 
Let me die a thousand deaths , rather than stain thy conscience . 
MANFRED'S heart misgave him when he beheld the plumage on the miraculous casque shaken in concert with the sounding of the brazen trumpet . 
Unhappy Prince that I am , cried Manfred . 
Holy Father ! will you not assist me with your prayers ? My Lord , replied Jerome , heaven is no doubt displeased with your mockery of its servants . 
Submit yourself to the church and cease to persecute her ministers . 
Dismiss this innocent youth and learn to respect the holy character I wear . 
Heaven will not be trifled with you see the trumpet sounded again . 
I acknowledge I have been too hasty , said Manfred . 
Father , do you go to the wicket , and demand who is at the gate . 
Do you grant me the life of Theodore ? replied the Friar . 
You promised to go to the gate , said Manfred . 
I thought , replied the Friar , your Highness would excuse my thanking you first in this tribute of my heart . 
Go , dearest Sir , said Theodore obey the Prince . 
I do not deserve that you should delay his satisfaction for me . 
Jerome , inquiring who was without , was answered , A Herald . 
From whom ? said he . 
From the Knight of the Gigantic Sabre , said the Herald and I must speak with the usurper of Otranto . 
Jerome returned to the Prince , and did not fail to repeat the message in the very words it had been uttered . 
The first sounds struck Manfred with terror but when he heard himself styled usurper , his rage rekindled , and all his courage revived . 
Usurper ! insolent villain ! cried he who dares to question my title ? Retire , Father this is no business for Monks I will meet this presumptuous man myself . 
Go to your convent and prepare the Princess's return . 
Your son shall be a hostage for your fidelity his life depends on your obedience . 
I doubt whether it even notifies its will through Friars but that is your affair , not mine . 
At present you know my pleasure and it is not a saucy Herald that shall save your son , if you do not return with the Princess . 
It was in vain for the holy man to reply . 
Manfred commanded him to be conducted to the postern gate , and shut out from the castle . 
He then withdrew to the hall , and seating himself in princely state , ordered the Herald to be admitted to his presence . 
If thou dost not instantly comply with these just demands , he defies thee to single combat to the last extremity . 
And so saying the Herald cast down his warder . 
And where is this braggart who sends thee ? said Manfred . 
Injurious as this challenge was , Manfred reflected that it was not his interest to provoke the Marquis . 
He knew how well founded the claim of Frederic was nor was this the first time he had heard of it . 
Frederic , a martial and amorous young Prince , had married a beautiful young lady , of whom he was enamoured , and who had died in childbed of Isabella . 
Bid him welcome to my castle , where by my faith , as I am a true Knight , he shall have courteous reception , and full security for himself and followers . 
During this interview Jerome's mind was agitated by a thousand contrary passions . 
He trembled for the life of his son , and his first thought was to persuade Isabella to return to the castle . 
Yet he was scarce less alarmed at the thought of her union with Manfred . 
He returned disconsolately to the monastery , uncertain on what conduct to resolve . 
Martelli , replied the other Friar , passed by the convent but a quarter of an hour ago on his way from the castle , and reported that her Highness was dead . 
All our brethren are gone to the chapel to pray for her happy transit to a better life , and willed me to wait thy arrival . 
But this life is but a pilgrimage we must not murmur we shall all follow her ! May our end be like hers ! Good brother , thou dreamest , said Jerome . 
I tell thee I come from the castle , and left the Princess well . 
Where is the Lady Isabella ? Poor Gentlewoman ! replied the Friar I told her the sad news , and offered her spiritual comfort . 
I reminded her of the transitory condition of mortality , and advised her to take the veil I quoted the example of the holy Princess Sanchia of Arragon . 
Jerome left his comrade abruptly , and hastened to the Princess , but she was not in her chamber . 
He inquired of the domestics of the convent , but could learn no news of her . 
He searched in vain throughout the monastery and the church , and despatched messengers round the neighbourhood , to get intelligence if she had been seen but to no purpose . 
Nothing could equal the good man's perplexity . 
He judged that Isabella , suspecting Manfred of having precipitated his wife's death , had taken the alarm , and withdrawn herself to some more secret place of concealment . 
This new flight would probably carry the Prince's fury to the height . 
In a few minutes the cavalcade arrived . 
First came two harbingers with wands . 
Next a herald , followed by two pages and two trumpets . 
Then a hundred foot guards . 
These were attended by as many horse . 
After them fifty footmen , clothed in scarlet and black , the colours of the Knight . 
Two heralds on each side of a gentleman on horseback bearing a banner with the arms of Vicenza and Otranto quarterly a circumstance that much offended Manfred but he stifled his resentment . 
The Knight's confessor telling his beads . 
Fifty more footmen clad as before . 
Two Knights habited in complete armour , their beavers down , comrades to the principal Knight . 
The squires of the two Knights , carrying their shields and devices . 
A hundred gentlemen bearing an enormous sword , and seeming to faint under the weight of it . 
Fifty foot guards with drums and trumpets closed the procession , which wheeled off to the right and left to make room for the principal Knight . 
As soon as he approached the gate he stopped and the herald advancing , read again the words of the challenge . 
Manfred's eyes were fixed on the gigantic sword , and he scarce seemed to attend to the cartel but his attention was soon diverted by a tempest of wind that rose behind him . 
He turned and beheld the Plumes of the enchanted helmet agitated in the same extraordinary manner as before . 
It required intrepidity like Manfred's not to sink under a concurrence of circumstances that seemed to announce his fate . 
Yet scorning in the presence of strangers to betray the courage he had always manifested , he said boldly Sir Knight , whoever thou art , I bid thee welcome . 
If thou art of mortal mould , thy valour shall meet its equal and if thou art a true Knight , thou wilt scorn to employ sorcery to carry thy point . 
Be these omens from heaven or hell , Manfred trusts to the righteousness of his cause and to the aid of St . 
Nicholas , who has ever protected his house . 
Alight , Sir Knight , and repose thyself . 
As they traversed the court , the Knight stopped to gaze on the miraculous casque and kneeling down , seemed to pray inwardly for some minutes . 
Rising , he made a sign to the Prince to lead on . 
As soon as they entered the hall , Manfred proposed to the stranger to disarm , but the Knight shook his head in token of refusal . 
your friends and you shall enjoy the laws of hospitality . 
Rest here until refreshments are brought . 
I will but give orders for the accommodation of your train , and return to you . 
The three Knights bowed as accepting his courtesy . 
Manfred directed the stranger's retinue to be conducted to an adjacent hospital , founded by the Princess Hippolita for the reception of pilgrims . 
Manfred , however ill his heart was at ease , endeavoured to inspire the company with mirth . 
He put several questions to them , but was answered only by signs . 
They raised their vizors but sufficiently to feed themselves , and that sparingly . 
Still ye are silent well ! be it as it may by the laws of hospitality and chivalry ye are masters under this roof ye shall do your pleasure . 
But come , give me a goblet of wine ye will not refuse to pledge me to the healths of your fair mistresses . 
The principal Knight sighed and crossed himself , and was rising from the board . 
Sir Knight , said Manfred , what I said was but in sport . 
I shall constrain you in nothing use your good liking . 
Since mirth is not your mood , let us be sad . 
Business may hit your fancies better . 
Let us withdraw , and hear if what I have to unfold may be better relished than the vain efforts I have made for your pastime . 
You must know , your Lord knows , that I enjoy the principality of Otranto from my father , Don Manuel , as he received it from his father , Don Ricardo . 
Alfonso , their predecessor , dying childless in the Holy Land , bequeathed his estates to my grandfather , Don Ricardo , in consideration of his faithful services . 
The stranger shook his head . 
Sir Knight , said Manfred , warmly , Ricardo was a valiant and upright man he was a pious man witness his munificent foundation of the adjoining church and two converts . 
He was peculiarly patronised by St . 
Nicholas my grandfather was incapable I say , Sir , Don Ricardo was incapable excuse me , your interruption has disordered me . 
I venerate the memory of my grandfather . 
Well , Sirs , he held this estate he held it by his good sword and by the favour of St . 
Nicholas so did my father and so , Sirs , will I , come what come will . 
But Frederic , your Lord , is nearest in blood . 
I have consented to put my title to the issue of the sword . 
Does that imply a vicious title ? I might have asked , where is Frederic your Lord ? Report speaks him dead in captivity . 
You say , your actions say , he lives I question it not I might , Sirs , I might but I do not . 
Ye require me to deliver up the Lady Isabella . 
Sirs , I must ask if ye are authorised to receive her ? The Knight nodded . 
Receive her , continued Manfred well , you are authorised to receive her , but , gentle Knight , may I ask if you have full powers ? The Knight nodded . 
'Tis well , said Manfred then hear what I have to offer . 
afford me your compassion I am entitled to it , indeed I am . 
Know , I have lost my only hope , my joy , the support of my house Conrad died yester morning . 
The Knights discovered signs of surprise . 
Yes , Sirs , fate has disposed of my son . 
Do you then restore her ? cried the chief Knight , breaking silence . 
Afford me your patience , said Manfred . 
I rejoice to find , by this testimony of your goodwill , that this matter may be adjusted without blood . 
It is no interest of mine dictates what little I have farther to say . 
Ye behold in me a man disgusted with the world the loss of my son has weaned me from earthly cares . 
Power and greatness have no longer any charms in my eyes . 
Manfred is no object of envy , but no doubt you are acquainted with my story . 
The Knight made signs of ignorance , and seemed curious to have Manfred proceed . 
No ! Thus , then , Sirs , it is . 
You think me ambitious ambition , alas ! is composed of more rugged materials . 
If I were ambitious , I should not for so many years have been a prey to all the hell of conscientious scruples . 
But I weary your patience I will be brief . 
Know , then , that I have long been troubled in mind on my union with the Princess Hippolita . 
I was willing to restore the line of Alfonso , even in his most distant kindred . 
But ye will ask whither tends this long discourse ? Briefly , then , thus , Sirs . 
Heaven in your arrival seems to point out a remedy for these difficulties and my misfortunes . 
The Lady Isabella is at liberty I shall soon be so . 
I would submit to anything for the good of my people . 
Were it not the best , the only way to extinguish the feuds between our families , if I was to take the Lady Isabella to wife ? You start . 
But though Hippolita's virtues will ever be dear to me , a Prince must not consider himself he is born for his people . 
A servant at that instant entering the chamber apprised Manfred that Jerome and several of his brethren demanded immediate access to him . 
The Prince , provoked at this interruption , and fearing that the Friar would discover to the strangers that Isabella had taken sanctuary , was going to forbid Jerome's entrance . 
Manfred angrily reprimanded them for their intrusion , and would have forced them back from the chamber but Jerome was too much agitated to be repulsed . 
He declared aloud the flight of Isabella , with protestations of his own innocence . 
The Prince in vain endeavoured to stop this discovery , which overwhelmed him with shame and confusion . 
Manfred endeavoured to hold him , but the other Knights assisting their comrade , he broke from the Prince , and hastened into the court , demanding his attendants . 
He had in his hurry given this order in general terms , not meaning to extend it to the guard he had set upon Theodore , but forgetting it . 
Matilda disengaged herself from her women , stole up to the black tower , and unbolting the door , presented herself to the astonished Theodore . 
Young man , said she , though filial duty and womanly modesty condemn the step I am taking , yet holy charity , surmounting all other ties , justifies this act . 
Fly the doors of thy prison are open my father and his domestics are absent but they may soon return . 
May I not know the name of my divine protectress ? Methought thou namedst thy father . 
Is it possible ? Can Manfred's blood feel holy pity ! Lovely Lady , thou answerest not . 
Alas ! thou mistakest , said Matilda , signing I am Manfred's daughter , but no dangers await me . 
Amazement ! said Theodore but last night I blessed myself for yielding thee the service thy gracious compassion so charitably returns me now . 
Still thou art in an error , said the Princess but this is no time for explanation . 
Fly , virtuous youth , while it is in my power to save thee should my father return , thou and I both should indeed have cause to tremble . 
How ! said Theodore thinkest thou , charming maid , that I will accept of life at the hazard of aught calamitous to thee ? Better I endured a thousand deaths . 
I run no risk , said Matilda , but by thy delay . 
Depart it cannot be known that I have assisted thy flight . 
Swear by the saints above , said Theodore , that thou canst not be suspected else here I vow to await whatever can befall me . 
Oh ! thou art too generous , said Matilda but rest assured that no suspicion can alight on me . 
Give me thy beauteous hand in token that thou dost not deceive me , said Theodore and let me bathe it with the warm tears of gratitude . 
Forbear ! said the Princess this must not be . 
Forbear , and be gone , said Matilda . 
How would Isabella approve of seeing thee at my feet ? Who is Isabella ? said the young man with surprise . 
Ah , me ! I fear , said the Princess , I am serving a deceitful one . 
Hast thou forgot thy curiosity this morning ? Thy looks , thy actions , all thy beauteous self seem an emanation of divinity , said Theodore but thy words are dark and mysterious . 
Speak , Lady speak to thy servant's comprehension . 
I go , Lady , said Theodore , because it is thy will , and because I would not bring the grey hairs of my father with sorrow to the grave . 
Say but , adored Lady , that I have thy gentle pity . 
Stay , said Matilda I will conduct thee to the subterraneous vault by which Isabella escaped it will lead thee to the church of St . 
Nicholas , where thou mayst take sanctuary . 
To sanctuary , said Theodore no , Princess sanctuaries are for helpless damsels , or for criminals . 
Theodore's soul is free from guilt , nor will wear the appearance of it . 
Give me a sword , Lady , and thy father shall learn that Theodore scorns an ignominious flight . 
Rash youth ! said Matilda thou wouldst not dare to lift thy presumptuous arm against the Prince of Otranto ? Not against thy father indeed , I dare not , said Theodore . 
Excuse me , Lady I had forgotten . 
But could I gaze on thee , and remember thou art sprung from the tyrant Manfred ! But he is thy father , and from this moment my injuries are buried in oblivion . 
A deep and hollow groan , which seemed to come from above , startled the Princess and Theodore . 
Good heaven ! we are overheard ! said the Princess . 
They listened but perceiving no further noise , they both concluded it the effect of pent up vapours . 
And the Princess , preceding Theodore softly , carried him to her father's armoury , where , equipping him with a complete suit , he was conducted by Matilda to the postern gate . 
Avoid the town , said the Princess , and all the western side of the castle . 
'Tis there the search must be making by Manfred and the strangers but hie thee to the opposite quarter . 
Yonder behind that forest to the east is a chain of rocks , hollowed into a labyrinth of caverns that reach to the sea coast . 
There thou mayst lie concealed , till thou canst make signs to some vessel to put on shore , and take thee off . 
Ere the Princess could reply , a clap of thunder was suddenly heard that shook the battlements . 
Theodore went pensively to the convent , to acquaint his father with his deliverance . 
There he learned the absence of Jerome , and the pursuit that was making after the Lady Isabella , with some particulars of whose story he now first became acquainted . 
The generous gallantry of his nature prompted him to wish to assist her but the Monks could lend him no lights to guess at the route she had taken . 
The tenderness Jerome had expressed for him concurred to confirm this reluctance and he even persuaded himself that filial affection was the chief cause of his hovering between the castle and monastery . 
Until Jerome should return at night , Theodore at length determined to repair to the forest that Matilda had pointed out to him . 
Arriving there , he sought the gloomiest shades , as best suited to the pleasing melancholy that reigned in his mind . 
In this mood he roved insensibly to the caves which had formerly served as a retreat to hermits , and were now reported round the country to be haunted by evil spirits . 
He recollected to have heard this tradition and being of a brave and adventurous disposition , he willingly indulged his curiosity in exploring the secret recesses of this labyrinth . 
He had not penetrated far before he thought he heard the steps of some person who seemed to retreat before him . 
Theodore , though firmly grounded in all our holy faith enjoins to be believed , had no apprehension that good men were abandoned without cause to the malice of the powers of darkness . 
He thought the place more likely to be infested by robbers than by those infernal agents who are reported to molest and bewilder travellers . 
He had long burned with impatience to approve his valour . 
Drawing his sabre , he marched sedately onwards , still directing his steps as the imperfect rustling sound before him led the way . 
The armour he wore was a like indication to the person who avoided him . 
He hasted to raise her , but her terror was so great that he apprehended she would faint in his arms . 
He used every gentle word to dispel her alarms , and assured her that far from injuring , he would defend her at the peril of his life . 
Merciful heaven ! cried she . 
On my knees , let me thank Hold ! gentle Princess , said Theodore , nor demean thyself before a poor and friendless young man . 
If heaven has selected me for thy deliverer , it will accomplish its work , and strengthen my arm in thy cause . 
But come , Lady , we are too near the mouth of the cavern let us seek its inmost recesses . 
I can have no tranquillity till I have placed thee beyond the reach of danger . 
Alas ! what mean you , sir ? said she . 
I meant to conduct you into the most private cavity of these rocks , and then at the hazard of my life to guard their entrance against every living thing . 
They soon distinguished these sounds Isabella ! what , ho ! Isabella ! The trembling Princess relapsed into her former agony of fear . 
Theodore endeavoured to encourage her , but in vain . 
At the mouth of the cavern he found an armed Knight , discoursing with a peasant , who assured him he had seen a lady enter the passes of the rock . 
The Knight was preparing to seek her , when Theodore , placing himself in his way , with his sword drawn , sternly forbad him at his peril to advance . 
And who art thou , who darest to cross my way ? said the Knight , haughtily . 
One who does not dare more than he will perform , said Theodore . 
I seek the Lady Isabella , said the Knight , and understand she has taken refuge among these rocks . 
Impede me not , or thou wilt repent having provoked my resentment . 
Thy purpose is as odious as thy resentment is contemptible , said Theodore . 
Return whence thou camest , or we shall soon know whose resentment is most terrible . 
The combat was furious , but not long . 
Theodore wounded the Knight in three several places , and at last disarmed him as he fainted by the loss of blood . 
They came up as the Knight fell , whom they soon discovered to be the noble stranger . 
Theodore , notwithstanding his hatred to Manfred , could not behold the victory he had gained without emotions of pity and generosity . 
But he was more touched when he learned the quality of his adversary , and was informed that he was no retainer , but an enemy , of Manfred . 
He assisted the servants of the latter in disarming the Knight , and in endeavouring to stanch the blood that flowed from his wounds . 
The Knight recovering his speech , said , in a faint and faltering voice Generous foe , we have both been in an error . 
I took thee for an instrument of the tyrant I perceive thou hast made the like mistake . 
It is too late for excuses . 
Fetch some water , said Theodore , and pour it down his throat , while I hasten to the Princess . 
The Princess , who had been transported at hearing the voice of Theodore , as he called to her to come forth , was astonished at what she heard . 
Suffering herself to be conducted by Theodore , the new proof of whose valour recalled her dispersed spirits , she came where the bleeding Knight lay speechless on the ground . 
But her fears returned when she beheld the domestics of Manfred . 
She would again have fled if Theodore had not made her observe that they were unarmed , and had not threatened them with instant death if they should dare to seize the Princess . 
Give me one Oh ! amazement ! horror ! what do I hear ! what do I see ! cried Isabella . 
Yes , I came to deliver thee . 
Give me a parting kiss , and take Sir , said Theodore , do not exhaust yourself suffer us to convey you to the castle . 
To the castle ! said Isabella . 
They placed him on a horse belonging to one of the domestics , after binding up his wounds as well as they were able . 
Theodore marched by his side and the afflicted Isabella , who could not bear to quit him , followed mournfully behind . 
THE sorrowful troop no sooner arrived at the castle , than they were met by Hippolita and Matilda , whom Isabella had sent one of the domestics before to advertise of their approach . 
The ladies causing Frederic to be conveyed into the nearest chamber , retired , while the surgeons examined his wounds . 
Matilda blushed at seeing Theodore and Isabella together but endeavoured to conceal it by embracing the latter , and condoling with her on her father's mischance . 
The surgeons soon came to acquaint Hippolita that none of the Marquis's wounds were dangerous and that he was desirous of seeing his daughter and the Princesses . 
Theodore , under pretence of expressing his joy at being freed from his apprehensions of the combat being fatal to Frederic , could not resist the impulse of following Matilda . 
Frederic , however incensed against Manfred , was not insensible to the courtesy and benevolence of Hippolita but he was still more struck with the lovely form of Matilda . 
Wishing to detain them by his bedside , he informed Hippolita of his story . 
Alarmed at this dream , and incapable of obeying the direction given by it , his chains became more grievous than ever . 
But while his thoughts were occupied on the means of obtaining his liberty , he received the agreeable news that the confederate Princes who were warring in Palestine had paid his ransom . 
He instantly set out for the wood that had been marked in his dream . 
Applying rich cordials , they brought the fainting man to his speech . 
Nicholas appeared to me , and revealed a secret , which he bade me never disclose to mortal man , but on my death bed . 
This is that tremendous hour , and ye are no doubt the chosen warriors to whom I was ordered to reveal my trust . 
By break of day , continued Frederic , when we had committed the holy relics to earth , we dug according to direction . 
But what was our astonishment when about the depth of six feet we discovered an enormous sabre the very weapon yonder in the court . 
She did not doubt but Frederic was destined by heaven to accomplish the fate that seemed to threaten her house . 
It is our part to deprecate its wrath , or bow to its decrees . 
Repeat the sentence , my Lord we listen resigned . 
Frederic was grieved that he had proceeded so far . 
The dignity and patient firmness of Hippolita penetrated him with respect , and the tender silent affection with which the Princess and her daughter regarded each other , melted him almost to tears . 
There is none here , but us , your friends . 
What , is not that Alfonso ? cried Manfred . 
Dost thou not see him ? can it be my brain's delirium ? This ! my Lord , said Hippolita this is Theodore , the youth who has been so unfortunate . 
Theodore ! said Manfred mournfully , and striking his forehead Theodore or a phantom , he has unhinged the soul of Manfred . 
But how comes he here ? and how comes he in armour ? I believe he went in search of Isabella , said Hippolita . 
Of Isabella ! said Manfred , relapsing into rage yes , yes , that is not doubtful . 
He could not comprehend how Theodore had escaped , how he came to be armed , and to encounter Frederic . 
Still he would not venture to ask any questions that might tend to inflame Manfred's wrath against his son . 
Jerome's silence convinced Manfred that he had contrived Theodore's release . 
Is it insolence thus to surrender myself to your Highness's pleasure ? added he , laying his sword respectfully at Manfred's feet . 
Behold my bosom strike , my Lord , if you suspect that a disloyal thought is lodged there . 
There is not a sentiment engraven on my heart that does not venerate you and yours . 
The grace and fervour with which Theodore uttered these words interested every person present in his favour . 
Even Manfred was touched yet still possessed with his resemblance to Alfonso , his admiration was dashed with secret horror . 
Rise , said he thy life is not my present purpose . 
But tell me thy history , and how thou camest connected with this old traitor here . 
My Lord , said Jerome eagerly . 
Peace ! impostor ! said Manfred I will not have him prompted . 
My Lord , said Theodore , I want no assistance my story is very brief . 
I was carried at five years of age to Algiers with my mother , who had been taken by corsairs from the coast of Sicily . 
She died of grief in less than a twelvemonth the tears gushed from Jerome's eyes , on whose countenance a thousand anxious passions stood expressed . 
Before she died , continued Theodore , she bound a writing about my arm under my garments , which told me I was the son of the Count Falconara . 
It is most true , said Jerome I am that wretched father . 
Again I enjoin thee silence , said Manfred proceed . 
This , my Lord , is Theodore's story . 
I am blessed beyond my hope in finding a father I am unfortunate beyond my desert in having incurred your Highness's displeasure . 
A murmur of approbation gently arose from the audience . 
This is not all , said Frederic I am bound in honour to add what he suppresses . 
Though he is modest , I must be generous he is one of the bravest youths on Christian ground . 
, if I can pardon him , surely you may it is not the youth's fault , if you took him for a spectre . 
This bitter taunt galled the soul of Manfred . 
If beings from another world , replied he haughtily , have power to impress my mind with awe , it is more than living man can do nor could a stripling's arm . 
, to retire with his father to the convent . 
Matilda and Isabella were too much occupied with their own reflections , and too little content with each other , to wish for farther converse that night . 
They separated each to her chamber , with more expressions of ceremony and fewer of affection thou had passed between them since their childhood . 
If they parted with small cordiality , they did but meet with greater impatience , as soon as the sun was risen . 
Their minds were in a situation that excluded sleep , and each recollected a thousand questions which she wished she had put to the other overnight . 
Matilda reflected that Isabella had been twice delivered by Theodore in very critical situations , which she could not believe accidental . 
His eyes , it was true , had been fixed on her in Frederic's chamber but that might have been to disguise his passion for Isabella from the fathers of both . 
It were better to clear this up . 
She wished to know the truth , lest she should wrong her friend by entertaining a passion for Isabella's lover . 
Thus jealousy prompted , and at the same time borrowed an excuse from friendship to justify its curiosity . 
Isabella , not less restless , had better foundation for her suspicions . 
I will go to my dear Matilda , who will confirm me in this becoming pride . 
This attitude , so correspondent to what she felt herself , revived Isabella's suspicions , and destroyed the confidence she had purposed to place in her friend . 
They blushed at meeting , and were too much novices to disguise their sensations with address . 
Matilda blushed and stammered My father he was sitting in judgment on a criminal What criminal ? said Isabella eagerly . 
A young man , said Matilda I believe I think it was that young man that What , Theodore ? said Isabella . 
You plead his cause very pathetically , said Isabella , considering he is so much a stranger to you ! I am mistaken , or he returns your charity . 
What mean you ? said Matilda . 
Nothing , said Isabella , repenting that she had given Matilda a hint of Theodore's inclination for her . 
I do not much observe pictures , said Isabella much less have I examined this young man so attentively as you seem to have done . 
Each confessed to the other the impression that Theodore had made on her and this confidence was followed by a struggle of generosity , each insisting on yielding her claim to her friend . 
During this contest of amity , Hippolita entered her daughter's chamber . 
The princesses were all attention and anxiety . 
With this view I have been proposing to Manfred , my lord , to tender this dear , dear child to Frederic , your father . 
This language amazes me , said Hippolita . 
Your feeling , Isabella , is warm but until this hour I never knew it betray you into intemperance . 
Yes , said Isabella and to complete his crime , he meditates I cannot speak it ! What can surpass what thou hast already uttered ? said Matilda . 
Grief choked her speech and the recollection of Manfred's late ambiguous discourses confirmed what she heard . 
Oh ! Matilda , this stroke is too heavy for thee ! weep not , my child and not a murmur , I charge thee . 
I swear , hear me all ye angels Stop , I adjure thee , cried Hippolita remember thou dost not depend on thyself thou hast a father . 
My father is too pious , too noble , interrupted Isabella , to command an impious deed . 
It is not ours to make election for ourselves heaven , our fathers , and our husbands must decide for us . 
Have patience until you hear what Manfred and Frederic have determined . 
If the Marquis accepts Matilda's hand , I know she will readily obey . 
Heaven may interpose and prevent the rest . 
Oh ! doubt not my obedience , my dreadful obedience to him and to you ! said Matilda . 
I abhor myself , if I cost my mother a pang . 
Hippolita blamed their imprudence , and showed them the improbability that either father would consent to bestow his heiress on so poor a man , though nobly born . 
Some comfort it gave her to find their passion of so recent a date , and that Theodore had had but little cause to suspect it in either . 
She strictly enjoined them to avoid all correspondence with him . 
I will go to the convent , said Hippolita , and order new masses to be said for a deliverance from these calamities . 
Oh ! my mother , said Matilda , you mean to quit us you mean to take sanctuary , and to give my father an opportunity of pursuing his fatal intention . 
Alas ! on my knees I supplicate you to forbear will you leave me a prey to Frederic ? I will follow you to the convent . 
Be at peace , my child , said Hippolita I will return instantly . 
I will never abandon thee , until I know it is the will of heaven , and for thy benefit . 
Do not deceive me , said Matilda . 
I will not marry Frederic until thou commandest it . 
Alas ! what will become of me ? Why that exclamation ? said Hippolita . 
I have promised thee to return Ah ! my mother , replied Matilda , stay and save me from myself . 
A frown from thee can do more than all my father's severity . 
I have given away my heart , and you alone can make me recall it . 
No more , said Hippolita thou must not relapse , Matilda . 
I can quit Theodore , said she , but must I wed another ? let me attend thee to the altar , and shut myself from the world for ever . 
Thy fate depends on thy father , said Hippolita I have ill bestowed my tenderness , if it has taught thee to revere aught beyond him . 
Adieu ! my child I go to pray for thee . 
Hippolita's real purpose was to demand of Jerome , whether in conscience she might not consent to the divorce . 
She had oft urged Manfred to resign the principality , which the delicacy of her conscience rendered an hourly burthen to her . 
These scruples concurred to make the separation from her husband appear less dreadful to her than it would have seemed in any other situation . 
Jerome , at quitting the castle overnight , had questioned Theodore severely why he had accused him to Manfred of being privy to his escape . 
Theodore owned it had been with design to prevent Manfred's suspicion from alighting on Matilda and added , the holiness of Jerome's life and character secured him from the tyrant's wrath . 
Jerome was heartily grieved to discover his son's inclination for that princess and leaving him to his rest , promised in the morning to acquaint him with important reasons for conquering his passion . 
Theodore , like Isabella , was too recently acquainted with parental authority to submit to its decisions against the impulse of his heart . 
He had little curiosity to learn the Friar's reasons , and less disposition to obey them . 
The lovely Matilda had made stronger impressions on him than filial affection . 
All night he pleased himself with visions of love and it was not till late after the morning office , that he recollected the Friar's commands to attend him at Alfonso's tomb . 
Young man , said Jerome , when he saw him , this tardiness does not please me . 
Have a father's commands already so little weight ? Theodore made awkward excuses , and attributed his delay to having overslept himself . 
And on whom were thy dreams employed ? said the Friar sternly . 
A tyrant's race must be swept from the earth to the third and fourth generation . 
Will heaven visit the innocent for the crimes of the guilty ? said Theodore . 
The fair Matilda has virtues enough To undo thee interrupted Jerome . 
I can forget injuries , but never benefits . 
The injuries thou hast received from Manfred's race , said the Friar , are beyond what thou canst conceive . 
Join with us , Lady ! thy spotless soul may obtain an exemption from the judgments which the portents of these days but too speakingly denounce against thy house . 
I pray fervently to heaven to divert them , said the pious Princess . 
Thou knowest it has been the occupation of my life to wrest a blessing for my Lord and my harmless children . 
Be dumb , rash youth ! said Jerome . 
And thou , fond Princess , contend not with the Powers above ! the Lord giveth , and the Lord taketh away bless His holy name , and submit to his decrees . 
I do most devoutly , said Hippolita but will He not spare my only comfort ? must Matilda perish too ? ah ! Father , I came but dismiss thy son . 
No ear but thine must hear what I have to utter . 
May heaven grant thy every wish , most excellent Princess ! said Theodore retiring . 
Hippolita then acquainted the Friar with the proposal she had suggested to Manfred , his approbation of it , and the tender of Matilda that he was gone to make to Frederic . 
But nothing could equal the perplexity of the Friar , when Hippolita confessed her readiness not to oppose the separation , and demanded his opinion on the legality of her acquiescence . 
Manfred , in the meantime , had broken his purpose to Frederic , and proposed the double marriage . 
That weak Prince , who had been struck with the charms of Matilda , listened but too eagerly to the offer . 
He made faint opposition to the proposal affecting , for form only , not to acquiesce unless Hippolita should consent to the divorce . 
Manfred took that upon himself . 
Transported with his success , and impatient to see himself in a situation to expect sons , he hastened to his wife's apartment , determined to extort her compliance . 
He learned with indignation that she was absent at the convent . 
His guilt suggested to him that she had probably been informed by Isabella of his purpose . 
Heaven and this virtuous lady know them nay , frown not , Prince . 
The Church despises thy menaces . 
Her thunders will be heard above thy wrath . 
Dare to proceed in thy cursed purpose of a divorce , until her sentence be known , and here I lance her anathema at thy head . 
Audacious rebel ! said Manfred , endeavouring to conceal the awe with which the Friar's words inspired him . 
Manfred turned pale , and the Princess sank on her knees . 
Think not thy ever obedient wife rebels against thy authority . 
I have no will but that of my Lord and the Church . 
To that revered tribunal let us appeal . 
It does not depend on us to burst the bonds that unite us . 
If the Church shall approve the dissolution of our marriage , be it so I have but few years , and those of sorrow , to pass . 
He , I ween , is no sacred personage , nor under the protection of the Church . 
Whoever weds Isabella , it shall not be Father Falconara's started up son . 
They start up , said the Friar , who are suddenly beheld in the seat of lawful Princes but they wither away like the grass , and their place knows them no more . 
CHAPTER V. EVERY reflection which Manfred made on the Friar's behaviour , conspired to persuade him that Jerome was privy to an amour between Isabella and Theodore . 
But Jerome's new presumption , so dissonant from his former meekness , suggested still deeper apprehensions . 
The Prince even suspected that the Friar depended on some secret support from Frederic , whose arrival , coinciding with the novel appearance of Theodore , seemed to bespeak a correspondence . 
Still more was he troubled with the resemblance of Theodore to Alfonso's portrait . 
The latter he knew had unquestionably died without issue . 
Frederic had consented to bestow Isabella on him . 
These contradictions agitated his mind with numberless pangs . 
He saw but two methods of extricating himself from his difficulties . 
The other was to press his marriage with Isabella . 
Hippolita needed little persuasions to bend her to his pleasure . 
This compliance , though inadequate , was sufficient to raise Manfred's hopes . 
He trusted that his power and wealth would easily advance his suit at the court of Rome , whither he resolved to engage Frederic to take a journey on purpose . 
Even the absence of Frederic would be a material point gained , until he could take further measures for his security . 
Dismissing Hippolita to her apartment , he repaired to that of the Marquis but crossing the great hall through which he was to pass he met Bianca . 
The damsel he knew was in the confidence of both the young ladies . 
It immediately occurred to him to sift her on the subject of Isabella and Theodore . 
Come , be a good girl and tell me is there any young man ha ! you understand me . 
Nay , but swear , your Highness . 
Stay , cried Manfred thou hast not satisfied my question . 
Hast thou ever carried any message , any letter ? I ! good gracious ! cried Bianca I carry a letter ? I would not to be a Queen . 
I hope your Highness thinks , though I am poor , I am honest . 
I do not question thy honesty . 
But it is thy duty to conceal nothing from me . 
How long has Isabella been acquainted with Theodore ? Nay , there is nothing can escape your Highness ! said Bianca not that I know any thing of the matter . 
Theodore , to be sure , is a proper young man , and , as my Lady Matilda says , the very image of good Alfonso . 
Has not your Highness remarked it ? Yes , yes , No thou torturest me , said Manfred . 
Where did they meet ? when ? Who ! my Lady Matilda ? said Bianca . 
Jealous ! no , no . 
Why should I be jealous ? perhaps I mean to unite them If I were sure Isabella would have no repugnance . 
Repugnance ! no , I'll warrant her , said Bianca he is as comely a youth as ever trod on Christian ground . 
Find out how she is affected towards Theodore bring me good news , and that ring has a companion . 
Wait at the foot of the winding staircase I am going to visit the Marquis , and will talk further with thee at my return . 
Manfred , after some general conversation , desired Frederic to dismiss the two Knights , his companions , having to talk with him on urgent affairs . 
Oh ! my Lord , my Lord ! cried she we are all undone ! it is come again ! it is come again ! What is come again ? cried Manfred amazed . 
Oh ! the hand ! the Giant ! the hand ! support me ! I am terrified out of my senses , cried Bianca . 
I will not sleep in the castle to night . 
Thou art safe here be not alarmed . 
Go to , thou hast lost thy senses , said Manfred . 
Interrupt us not we were communing on important matters My Lord , this wench is subject to fits Come with me , Bianca . 
What ! my Lord , cried Bianca , do you think I have seen nothing ? go to the foot of the great stairs yourself as I live I saw it . 
Saw what ? tell us , fair maid , what thou hast seen , said Frederic . 
Since his Highness will have it so , proceed but be brief . 
I was going to tell your Highness , said Bianca , if you would permit me . 
I marvel his Highness has not told you mayhap you do not know there is a prophecy This trifling is intolerable , interrupted Manfred . 
Let us dismiss this silly wench , my Lord ! we have more important affairs to discuss . 
By your favour , said Frederic , these are no trifles . 
He says this moon will not be out without our seeing some strange revolution . 
I looked up , and , if your Greatness will believe me , I saw upon the uppermost banister of the great stairs a hand in armour as big as big . 
I thought I should have swooned . 
I never stopped until I came hither would I were well out of this castle . 
My Lady Matilda told me but yester morning that her Highness Hippolita knows something . 
Thou art an insolent ! cried Manfred . 
Lord Marquis , it much misgives me that this scene is concerted to affront me . 
But trust me , it ill becomes a Prince of your bearing to practise on mercenary wenches . 
I scorn your imputation , said Frederic . 
Until this hour I never set eyes on this damsel I have given her no jewel . 
My Lord , my Lord , your conscience , your guilt accuses you , and would throw the suspicion on me but keep your daughter , and think no more of Isabella . 
The judgments already fallen on your house forbid me matching into it . 
Manfred , alarmed at the resolute tone in which Frederic delivered these words , endeavoured to pacify him . 
Dismissing Bianca , he made such submissions to the Marquis , and threw in such artful encomiums on Matilda , that Frederic was once more staggered . 
However , as his passion was of so recent a date , it could not at once surmount the scruples he had conceived . 
He had gathered enough from Bianca's discourse to persuade him that heaven declared itself against Manfred . 
The proposed marriages too removed his claim to a distance and the principality of Otranto was a stronger temptation than the contingent reversion of it with Matilda . 
Still he would not absolutely recede from his engagements but purposing to gain time , he demanded of Manfred if it was true in fact that Hippolita consented to the divorce . 
As they were thus discoursing , word was brought that the banquet was prepared . 
Manfred conducted Frederic to the great hall , where they were received by Hippolita and the young Princesses . 
Manfred placed the Marquis next to Matilda , and seated himself between his wife and Isabella . 
Hippolita comported herself with an easy gravity but the young ladies were silent and melancholy . 
The evening being far advanced , the banquet concluded . 
Manfred accepted the party , and to the no small grief of Isabella , accompanied her to her apartment . 
Matilda waited on her mother to enjoy the freshness of the evening on the ramparts of the castle . 
The Marquis , during the repast , had beheld Matilda with increase of passion . 
He now wished to find Hippolita in the disposition her Lord had promised . 
The portents that had alarmed him were forgotten in his desires . 
The Marquis was not surprised at the silence that reigned in the Princess's apartment . 
Concluding her , as he had been advertised , in her oratory , he passed on . 
The door was ajar the evening gloomy and overcast . 
Pushing open the door gently , he saw a person kneeling before the altar . 
As he approached nearer , it seemed not a woman , but one in a long woollen weed , whose back was towards him . 
The person seemed absorbed in prayer . 
The Marquis was about to return , when the figure , rising , stood some moments fixed in meditation , without regarding him . 
The Marquis , expecting the holy person to come forth , and meaning to excuse his uncivil interruption , said , Reverend Father , I sought the Lady Hippolita . 
Angels of grace protect me ! cried Frederic , recoiling . 
Deserve their protection ! said the Spectre . 
Frederic , falling on his knees , adjured the phantom to take pity on him . 
Dost thou not remember me ? said the apparition . 
Remember the wood of Joppa ! Art thou that holy hermit ? cried Frederic , trembling . 
Frederic's blood froze in his veins . 
For some minutes he remained motionless . 
Then falling prostrate on his face before the altar , he besought the intercession of every saint for pardon . 
Ere he could recover from this agony of his spirits , the Princess Hippolita with a taper in her hand entered the oratory alone . 
Seeing a man without motion on the floor , she gave a shriek , concluding him dead . 
Her fright brought Frederic to himself . 
Ah , virtuous Princess ! said the Marquis , penetrated with grief , and stopped . 
Oh , Matilda ! Quitting the Princess thus abruptly , he hastened to his own apartment . 
The haughty Prince , enraged at this unaccountable behaviour , withdrew in a frame of mind capable of the most fatal excesses . 
As he crossed the court , he was met by the domestic whom he had planted at the convent as a spy on Jerome and Theodore . 
He had dogged Theodore thither , but the gloominess of the night had prevented his discovering who the woman was . 
Provoked by this conjecture , and enraged at her father , he hastened secretly to the great church . 
The first sounds he could distinguish were Does it , alas ! depend on me ? Manfred will never permit our union . 
No , this shall prevent it ! cried the tyrant , drawing his dagger , and plunging it over her shoulder into the bosom of the person that spoke . 
Ah , me , I am slain ! cried Matilda , sinking . 
Good heaven , receive my soul ! Savage , inhuman monster , what hast thou done ! cried Theodore , rushing on him , and wrenching his dagger from him . 
Theodore , scarce less distracted , and only mastering the transports of his grief to assist Matilda , had now by his cries drawn some of the monks to his aid . 
While part of them endeavoured , in concert with the afflicted Theodore , to stop the blood of the dying Princess , the rest prevented Manfred from laying violent hands on himself . 
Matilda , resigning herself patiently to her fate , acknowledged with looks of grateful love the zeal of Theodore . 
Yet oft as her faintness would permit her speech its way , she begged the assistants to comfort her father . 
Jerome , by this time , had learnt the fatal news , and reached the church . 
I found him praying at this tomb , whither my mother sent me to intercede for thee , for her dearest father , bless your child , and say you forgive her . 
Forgive thee ! Murderous monster ! cried Manfred , can assassins forgive ? I took thee for Isabella but heaven directed my bloody hand to the heart of my child . 
Theodore , supporting her head with his arm , and hanging over her in an agony of despairing love , still endeavoured to inspire her with hopes of life . 
Manfred , plunged in the deepest affliction , followed the litter in despair . 
Isabella and Frederic , who attended her , were overwhelmed in almost equal sorrow . 
Matilda alone seemed insensible to her own situation every thought was lost in tenderness for her mother . 
Ordering the litter to stop , as soon as Hippolita was brought to herself , she asked for her father . 
He approached , unable to speak . 
Matilda , seizing his hand and her mother's , locked them in her own , and then clasped them to her heart . 
Manfred could not support this act of pathetic piety . 
He dashed himself on the ground , and cursed the day he was born . 
Matilda raised her eyes at her mother's voice , but closed them again without speaking . 
Her sinking pulse and the damp coldness of her hand soon dispelled all hopes of recovery . 
Theodore followed the surgeons into the outer chamber , and heard them pronounce the fatal sentence with a transport equal to frenzy . 
What means thy distracted rashness ? said Jerome . 
Is this an hour for marriage ? It is , it is , cried Theodore . 
Alas ! there is no other ! Young man , thou art too unadvised , said Frederic . 
This reverend man , my father , has informed me who I am . 
Thou ravest , said the Marquis . 
There is no Prince of Otranto but myself , now Manfred , by murder , by sacrilegious murder , has forfeited all pretensions . 
My Lord , said Jerome , assuming an air of command , he tells you true . 
It was not my purpose the secret should have been divulged so soon , but fate presses onward to its work . 
What his hot headed passion has revealed , my tongue confirms . 
Know , Prince , that when Alfonso set sail for the Holy Land Is this a season for explanations ? cried Theodore . 
Father , come and unite me to the Princess she shall be mine ! In every other thing I will dutifully obey you . 
What , is she dead ? cried Theodore is it possible ! The violence of his exclamations brought Matilda to herself . 
Lifting up her eyes , she looked round for her mother . 
Life of my soul , I am here ! cried Hippolita think not I will quit thee ! Oh ! you are too good , said Matilda . 
Isabella and her women tore Hippolita from the corse but Theodore threatened destruction to all who attempted to remove him from it . 
He printed a thousand kisses on her clay cold hands , and uttered every expression that despairing love could dictate . 
As the moon was now at its height , he read in the countenances of this unhappy company the event he dreaded . 
What ! is she dead ? cried he in wild confusion . 
A clap of thunder at that instant shook the castle to its foundations the earth rocked , and the clank of more than mortal armour was heard behind . 
Frederic and Jerome thought the last day was at hand . 
The latter , forcing Theodore along with them , rushed into the court . 
Nicholas was seen , and receiving Alfonso's shade , they were soon wrapt from mortal eyes in a blaze of glory . 
The beholders fell prostrate on their faces , acknowledging the divine will . 
The first that broke silence was Hippolita . 
Thou guiltless but unhappy woman ! unhappy by my crimes ! replied Manfred , my heart at last is open to thy devout admonitions . 
Ricardo , my grandfather , was his chamberlain I would draw a veil over my ancestor's crimes but it is in vain ! Alfonso died by poison . 
A fictitious will declared Ricardo his heir . 
His crimes pursued him yet he lost no Conrad , no Matilda ! I pay the price of usurpation for all ! A storm overtook him . 
Haunted by his guilt he vowed to St . 
Nicholas to found a church and two convents , if he lived to reach Otranto . 
How this young man can be Alfonso's heir I know not yet I do not doubt it . 
What remains is my part to declare , said Jerome . 
When Alfonso set sail for the Holy Land he was driven by a storm to the coast of Sicily . 
The other vessel , which bore Ricardo and his train , as your Lordship must have heard , was separated from him . 
It is most true , said Manfred and the title you give me is more than an outcast can claim well ! be it so proceed . 
Jerome blushed , and continued . 
For three months Lord Alfonso was wind bound in Sicily . 
There he became enamoured of a fair virgin named Victoria . 
He was too pious to tempt her to forbidden pleasures . 
During his absence she was delivered of a daughter . 
But scarce had she felt a mother's pangs ere she heard the fatal rumour of her Lord's death , and the succession of Ricardo . 
Matilda's death and my expulsion Be composed , my Lord , said Hippolita this holy man did not mean to recall your griefs . 
I shall not dwell on what is needless . 
The daughter of which Victoria was delivered , was at her maturity bestowed in marriage on me . 
Victoria died and the secret remained locked in my breast . 
Theodore's narrative has told the rest . 
The disconsolate company retired to the remaining part of the castle . 
In the morning Manfred signed his abdication of the principality , with the approbation of Hippolita , and each took on them the habit of religion in the neighbouring convents . 
Frederic offered his daughter to the new Prince , which Hippolita's tenderness for Isabella concurred to promote . 
