DAVID COPPERFIELD by CHARLES DICKENS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO THE HON . 
Mr. AND Mrs. RICHARD WATSON , OF ROCKINGHAM , NORTHAMPTONSHIRE . 
CONTENTS I. I Am Born II . 
I Have a Change IV . 
I Fall into Disgrace V. I Am Sent Away VI . 
I Enlarge My Circle of Acquaintance VII . 
My 'First Half' at Salem House VIII . 
Especially One Happy Afternoon IX . 
I Have a Memorable Birthday X. I Become Neglected , and Am Provided For XI . 
I Begin Life on My Own Account , and Don't Like It XII . 
Liking Life on My Own Account No Better , I Form a Great Resolution XIII . 
The Sequel of My Resolution XIV . 
My Aunt Makes up Her Mind About Me XV . 
I Make Another Beginning XVI . 
I Am a New Boy in More Senses Than One XVII . 
I Look About Me and Make a Discovery XX . 
Some Old Scenes , and Some New People XXIII . 
I Corroborate Mr. Dick , and Choose a Profession XXIV . 
Good and Bad Angels XXVI . 
I Fall into Captivity XXVII . 
I Visit Steerforth at His Home , Again XXX . 
The Beginning of a Long Journey XXXIII . 
My Aunt Astonishes Me XXXV . 
A Little Cold Water XXXVIII . 
A Dissolution of Partnership XXXIX . 
Mr. Dick Fulfils My Aunt's Predictions XLVI . 
I Am Involved in Mystery L. Mr. Peggotty's Dream Comes True LI . 
The Beginning of a Longer Journey LII . 
I Assist at an Explosion LIII . 
The New Wound , and the Old LVII . 
I Am Shown Two Interesting Penitents LXII . 
A Light Shines on My Way LXIII . 
Besides which , all that I could say of the Story , to any purpose , I have endeavoured to say in it . 
that no one can ever believe this Narrative , in the reading , more than I have believed it in the writing . 
Instead of looking back , therefore , I will look forward . 
Besides which , all that I could have said of the Story to any purpose , I had endeavoured to say in it . 
, that no one can ever believe this Narrative , in the reading , more than I believed it in the writing . 
So true are these avowals at the present day , that I can now only take the reader into one confidence more . 
Of all my books , I like this the best . 
It will be easily believed that I am a fond parent to every child of my fancy , and that no one can ever love that family as dearly as I love them . 
But , like many fond parents , I have in my heart of hearts a favourite child . 
And his name is DAVID COPPERFIELD . 
on a Friday , at twelve o'clock at night . 
It was remarked that the clock began to strike , and I began to cry , simultaneously . 
I need say nothing here , on the first head , because nothing can show better than my history whether that prediction was verified or falsified by the result . 
I was born with a caul , which was advertised for sale , in the newspapers , at the low price of fifteen guineas . 
I was present myself , and I remember to have felt quite uncomfortable and confused , at a part of myself being disposed of in that way . 
It is a fact which will be long remembered as remarkable down there , that she was never drowned , but died triumphantly in bed , at ninety two . 
she , to the last , expressed her indignation at the impiety of mariners and others , who had the presumption to go 'meandering' about the world . 
It was in vain to represent to her that some conveniences , tea perhaps included , resulted from this objectionable practice . 
She always returned , with greater emphasis and with an instinctive knowledge of the strength of her objection , 'Let us have no meandering . 
Not to meander myself , at present , I will go back to my birth . 
I was born at Blunderstone , in Suffolk , or 'there by' , as they say in Scotland . 
I was a posthumous child . 
My father's eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months , when mine opened on it . 
An aunt of my father's , and consequently a great aunt of mine , of whom I shall have more to relate by and by , was the principal magnate of our family . 
These evidences of an incompatibility of temper induced Miss Betsey to pay him off , and effect a separation by mutual consent . 
Anyhow , from India tidings of his death reached home , within ten years . 
My father had once been a favourite of hers , I believe but she was mortally affronted by his marriage , on the ground that my mother was 'a wax doll' . 
She had never seen my mother , but she knew her to be not yet twenty . 
My father and Miss Betsey never met again . 
He was double my mother's age when he married , and of but a delicate constitution . 
He died a year afterwards , and , as I have said , six months before I came into the world . 
This was the state of matters , on the afternoon of , what I may be excused for calling , that eventful and important Friday . 
MY mother had a sure foreboding at the second glance , that it was Miss Betsey . 
When she reached the house , she gave another proof of her identity . 
She gave my mother such a turn , that I have always been convinced I am indebted to Miss Betsey for having been born on a Friday . 
My mother had left her chair in her agitation , and gone behind it in the corner . 
Then she made a frown and a gesture to my mother , like one who was accustomed to be obeyed , to come and open the door . 
David Copperfield , I think , said Miss Betsey the emphasis referring , perhaps , to my mother's mourning weeds , and her condition . 
'Yes , said my mother , faintly . 
'Miss Trotwood , said the visitor . 
'You have heard of her , I dare say ? My mother answered she had had that pleasure . 
And she had a disagreeable consciousness of not appearing to imply that it had been an overpowering pleasure . 
'Now you see her , said Miss Betsey . 
My mother bent her head , and begged her to walk in . 
'Oh tut , tut , tut ! said Miss Betsey , in a hurry . 
'Don't do that ! Come , come ! My mother couldn't help it notwithstanding , so she cried until she had had her cry out . 
'Take off your cap , child , said Miss Betsey , 'and let me see you . 
MY mother was too much afraid of her to refuse compliance with this odd request , if she had any disposition to do so . 
Therefore she did as she was told , and did it with such nervous hands that her hair fell all about her face . 
'Why , bless my heart ! exclaimed Miss Betsey . 
'In the name of Heaven , said Miss Betsey , suddenly , 'why Rookery ? 'Do you mean the house , ma'am ? asked my mother . 
'Why Rookery ? said Miss Betsey . 
'Cookery would have been more to the purpose , if you had had any practical ideas of life , either of you . 
'The name was Mr. Copperfield's choice , returned my mother . 
'When he bought the house , he liked to think that there were rooks about it . 
'Where are the birds ? asked Miss Betsey . 
'The ? My mother had been thinking of something else . 
'The rooks what has become of them ? asked Miss Betsey . 
'There have not been any since we have lived here , said my mother . 
'We thought Mr. Copperfield thought it was quite a large rookery but the nests were very old ones , and the birds have deserted them a long while . 
'David Copperfield all over ! cried Miss Betsey . 
But it passed with the action of rising from her chair and she sat down again very meekly , and fainted . 
When she came to herself , or when Miss Betsey had restored her , whichever it was , she found the latter standing at the window . 
The twilight was by this time shading down into darkness and dimly as they saw each other , they could not have done that without the aid of the fire . 
'I don't know what's the matter . 
I shall die , I am sure ! 'No , no , no , said Miss Betsey . 
'Oh dear me , dear me , do you think it will do me any good ? cried my mother in a helpless manner . 
'Of course it will , said Miss Betsey . 
What do you call your girl ? 'I don't know that it will be a girl , yet , ma'am , said my mother innocently . 
I mean your servant girl . 
'Peggotty , said my mother . 
'Peggotty ! repeated Miss Betsey , with some indignation . 
Copperfield called her by it , because her Christian name was the same as mine . 
'Here ! Peggotty ! cried Miss Betsey , opening the parlour door . 
Your mistress is a little unwell . 
'You were speaking about its being a girl , said Miss Betsey . 
'I have no doubt it will be a girl . 
I have a presentiment that it must be a girl . 
Now child , from the moment of the birth of this girl 'Perhaps boy , my mother took the liberty of putting in . 
'I tell you I have a presentiment that it must be a girl , returned Miss Betsey . 
From the moment of this girl's birth , child , I intend to be her friend . 
I intend to be her godmother , and I beg you'll call her Betsey Trotwood Copperfield . 
There must be no mistakes in life with THIS Betsey Trotwood . 
There must be no trifling with HER affections , poor dear . 
She must be well brought up , and well guarded from reposing any foolish confidences where they are not deserved . 
I must make that MY care . 
'And was David good to you , child ? asked Miss Betsey , when she had been silent for a little while , and these motions of her head had gradually ceased . 
'Were you comfortable together ? 'We were very happy , said my mother . 
Copperfield was only too good to me . 
'What , he spoilt you , I suppose ? returned Miss Betsey . 
'For being quite alone and dependent on myself in this rough world again , yes , I fear he did indeed , sobbed my mother . 
'Well ! Don't cry ! said Miss Betsey . 
'You were not equally matched , child if any two people can be equally matched and so I asked the question . 
You were an orphan , weren't you ? 'Yes . 
'And a governess ? 'I was nursery governess in a family where Mr. Copperfield came to visit . 
Mr. Copperfield was very kind to me , and took a great deal of notice of me , and paid me a good deal of attention , and at last proposed to me . 
And so we were married , said my mother simply . 
'Ha ! Poor Baby ! mused Miss Betsey , with her frown still bent upon the fire . 
'Do you know anything ? 'I beg your pardon , ma'am , faltered my mother . 
'About keeping house , for instance , said Miss Betsey . 
'Not much , I fear , returned my mother . 
'Not so much as I could wish . 
said Miss Betsey in a parenthesis . 
'Well , well ! said Miss Betsey . 
'I kept my housekeeping book regularly , and balanced it with Mr. Copperfield every night , cried my mother in another burst of distress , and breaking down again . 
'Well , well ! said Miss Betsey . 
'You'll make yourself ill , said Miss Betsey , 'and you know that will not be good either for you or for my god daughter . 
Come ! You mustn't do it ! This argument had some share in quieting my mother , though her increasing indisposition had a larger one . 
There was an interval of silence , only broken by Miss Betsey's occasionally ejaculating 'Ha ! as she sat with her feet upon the fender . 
'David had bought an annuity for himself with his money , I know , said she , by and by . 
'What did he do for you ? 'Mr . 
Copperfield , said my mother , answering with some difficulty , 'was so considerate and good as to secure the reversion of a part of it to me . 
'How much ? asked Miss Betsey . 
'A hundred and five pounds a year , said my mother . 
'He might have done worse , said my aunt . 
The word was appropriate to the moment . 
He was the meekest of his sex , the mildest of little men . 
He sidled in and out of a room , to take up the less space . 
He walked as softly as the Ghost in Hamlet , and more slowly . 
He carried his head on one side , partly in modest depreciation of himself , partly in modest propitiation of everybody else . 
It is nothing to say that he hadn't a word to throw at a dog . 
He couldn't have thrown a word at a mad dog . 
Mr. Chillip was so alarmed by her abruptness as he told my mother afterwards that it was a mercy he didn't lose his presence of mind . 
But he repeated sweetly 'Some local irritation , ma'am ? 'Nonsense ! replied my aunt , and corked herself again , at one blow . 
Mr. Chillip could do nothing after this , but sit and look at her feebly , as she sat and looked at the fire , until he was called upstairs again . 
After some quarter of an hour's absence , he returned . 
'Well ? said my aunt , taking the cotton out of the ear nearest to him . 
'Well , ma'am , returned Mr. Chillip , 'we are we are progressing slowly , ma'am . 
'Ba a ah ! said my aunt , with a perfect shake on the contemptuous interjection . 
And corked herself as before . 
Really really as Mr. Chillip told my mother , he was almost shocked speaking in a professional point of view alone , he was almost shocked . 
But he sat and looked at her , notwithstanding , for nearly two hours , as she sat looking at the fire , until he was again called out . 
After another absence , he again returned . 
'Well ? said my aunt , taking out the cotton on that side again . 
'Well , ma'am , returned Mr. Chillip , 'we are we are progressing slowly , ma'am . 
'Ya a ah ! said my aunt . 
With such a snarl at him , that Mr. Chillip absolutely could not bear it . 
It was really calculated to break his spirit , he said afterwards . 
He preferred to go and sit upon the stairs , in the dark and a strong draught , until he was again sent for . 
The mild Mr. Chillip could not possibly bear malice at such a time , if at any time . 
He sidled into the parlour as soon as he was at liberty , and said to my aunt in his meekest manner 'Well , ma'am , I am happy to congratulate you . 
'What upon ? said my aunt , sharply . 
Mr. Chillip was fluttered again , by the extreme severity of my aunt's manner so he made her a little bow and gave her a little smile , to mollify her . 
'Mercy on the man , what's he doing ! cried my aunt , impatiently . 
'Can't he speak ? 'Be calm , my dear ma'am , said Mr. Chillip , in his softest accents . 
'There is no longer any occasion for uneasiness , ma'am . 
It has since been considered almost a miracle that my aunt didn't shake him , and shake what he had to say , out of him . 
She only shook her own head at him , but in a way that made him quail . 
'Well , ma'am , resumed Mr. Chillip , as soon as he had courage , 'I am happy to congratulate you . 
All is now over , ma'am , and well over . 
During the five minutes or so that Mr. Chillip devoted to the delivery of this oration , my aunt eyed him narrowly . 
'How is she ? said my aunt , folding her arms with her bonnet still tied on one of them . 
'Well , ma'am , she will soon be quite comfortable , I hope , returned Mr. Chillip . 
'Quite as comfortable as we can expect a young mother to be , under these melancholy domestic circumstances . 
There cannot be any objection to your seeing her presently , ma'am . 
It may do her good . 
How is SHE ? said my aunt , sharply . 
Mr. Chillip laid his head a little more on one side , and looked at my aunt like an amiable bird . 
'The baby , said my aunt . 
'How is she ? 'Ma'am , returned Mr. Chillip , 'I apprehended you had known . 
She vanished like a discontented fairy or like one of those supernatural beings , whom it was popularly supposed I was entitled to see and never came back any more . 
What else do I remember ? Let me see . 
There comes out of the cloud , our house not new to me , but quite familiar , in its earliest remembrance . 
Here is a long passage what an enormous perspective I make of it ! leading from Peggotty's kitchen to the front door . 
One Sunday night my mother reads to Peggotty and me in there , how Lazarus was raised up from the dead . 
There is nothing half so green that I know anywhere , as the grass of that churchyard nothing half so shady as its trees nothing half so quiet as its tombstones . 
I look at my mother , but she pretends not to see me . 
I look at a boy in the aisle , and he makes faces at me . 
I wonder whether they called in Mr. Chillip , and he was in vain and if so , how he likes to be reminded of it once a week . 
A great wind rises , and the summer is gone in a moment . 
We are playing in the winter twilight , dancing about the parlour . 
That is among my very earliest impressions . 
Peggotty and I were sitting one night by the parlour fire , alone . 
I had been reading to Peggotty about crocodiles . 
than have gone to bed . 
I had reached that stage of sleepiness when Peggotty seemed to swell and grow immensely large . 
painted on the top at the brass thimble on her finger at herself , whom I thought lovely . 
I felt so sleepy , that I knew if I lost sight of anything for a moment , I was gone . 
'Peggotty , says I , suddenly , 'were you ever married ? 'Lord , Master Davy , replied Peggotty . 
'What's put marriage in your head ? She answered with such a start , that it quite awoke me . 
And then she stopped in her work , and looked at me , with her needle drawn out to its thread's length . 
There was a red velvet footstool in the best parlour , on which my mother had painted a nosegay . 
The ground work of that stool , and Peggotty's complexion appeared to me to be one and the same thing . 
The stool was smooth , and Peggotty was rough , but that made no difference . 
'Me handsome , Davy ! said Peggotty . 
That's a matter of opinion . 
'But what is your opinion , Peggotty ? said I. I asked her , and looked curiously at her , because she looked so curiously at me . 
That's all I know about the subject . 
'You an't cross , I suppose , Peggotty , are you ? said I , after sitting quiet for a minute . 
, and opening her arms wide , took my curly head within them , and gave it a good squeeze . 
And I recollect two bursting to the opposite side of the parlour , while she was hugging me . 
'Now let me hear some more about the Crorkindills , said Peggotty , who was not quite right in the name yet , 'for I an't heard half enough . 
I couldn't quite understand why Peggotty looked so queer , or why she was so ready to go back to the crocodiles . 
I did , at least but I had my doubts of Peggotty , who was thoughtfully sticking her needle into various parts of her face and arms , all the time . 
We had exhausted the crocodiles , and begun with the alligators , when the garden bell rang . 
'What does that mean ? I asked him , over her shoulder . 
I put it away , as well as I could . 
'Oh , Davy ! remonstrated my mother . 
'Dear boy ! said the gentleman . 
'I cannot wonder at his devotion ! I never saw such a beautiful colour on my mother's face before . 
She gently chid me for being rude and , keeping me close to her shawl , turned to thank the gentleman for taking so much trouble as to bring her home . 
She put out her hand to him as she spoke , and , as he met it with his own , she glanced , I thought , at me . 
'Let us say good night , my fine boy , said the gentleman , when he had bent his head I saw him ! over my mother's little glove . 
'Good night ! said I. 'Come ! Let us be the best friends in the world ! said the gentleman , laughing . 
'Shake hands ! My right hand was in my mother's left , so I gave him the other . 
'Why , that's the Wrong hand , Davy ! laughed the gentleman . 
MY mother drew my right hand forward , but I was resolved , for my former reason , not to give it him , and I did not . 
I gave him the other , and he shook it heartily , and said I was a brave fellow , and went away . 
At this minute I see him turn round in the garden , and give us a last look with his ill omened black eyes , before the door was shut . 
Peggotty , who had not said a word or moved a finger , secured the fastenings instantly , and we all went into the parlour . 
'Hope you have had a pleasant evening , ma'am , said Peggotty , standing as stiff as a barrel in the centre of the room , with a candlestick in her hand . 
'Much obliged to you , Peggotty , returned my mother , in a cheerful voice , 'I have had a VERY pleasant evening . 
'A stranger or so makes an agreeable change , suggested Peggotty . 
'A very agreeable change , indeed , returned my mother . 
When I half awoke from this uncomfortable doze , I found Peggotty and my mother both in tears , and both talking . 
'Not such a one as this , Mr. Copperfield wouldn't have liked , said Peggotty . 
No ! That it won't do . 
No ! No price could make it do . 
No ! I thought Peggotty would have thrown the candlestick away , she was so emphatic with it . 
I dare say you'd quite enjoy it . 
Peggotty seemed to take this aspersion very much to heart , I thought . 
'You did , Peggotty ! returned my mother . 
I don't love you at all , do I ? At this , we all fell a crying together . 
I think I was the loudest of the party , but I am sure we were all sincere about it . 
I was quite heart broken myself , and am afraid that in the first transports of wounded tenderness I called Peggotty a 'Beast' . 
We went to bed greatly dejected . 
I fell asleep in her arms , after that , and slept soundly . 
Whether it was the following Sunday when I saw the gentleman again , or whether there was any greater lapse of time before he reappeared , I cannot recall . 
I don't profess to be clear about dates . 
But there he was , in church , and he walked home with us afterwards . 
He came in , too , to look at a famous geranium we had , in the parlour window . 
It did not appear to me that he took much notice of it , but before he went he asked my mother to give him a bit of the blossom . 
She begged him to choose it for himself , but he refused to do that I could not understand why so she plucked it for him , and gave it into his hand . 
Peggotty began to be less with us , of an evening , than she had always been . 
Gradually , I became used to seeing the gentleman with the black whiskers . 
No such thing came into my mind , or near it . 
One autumn morning I was with my mother in the front garden , when Mr. Murdstone I knew him by that name now came by , on horseback . 
Mr. Murdstone and I were soon off , and trotting along on the green turf by the side of the road . 
Several times when I glanced at him , I observed that appearance with a sort of awe , and wondered what he was thinking about so closely . 
His hair and whiskers were blacker and thicker , looked at so near , than even I had given them credit for being . 
I have no doubt that my poor dear mother thought him so too . 
We went to an hotel by the sea , where two gentlemen were smoking cigars in a room by themselves . 
Each of them was lying on at least four chairs , and had a large rough jacket on . 
In a corner was a heap of coats and boat cloaks , and a flag , all bundled up together . 
'And who's this shaver ? said one of the gentlemen , taking hold of me . 
'That's Davy , returned Mr. Murdstone . 
'Davy who ? said the gentleman . 
'Jones ? 'Copperfield , said Mr. Murdstone . 
'What ! Bewitching Mrs. Copperfield's encumbrance ? cried the gentleman . 
'The pretty little widow ? 'Quinion , said Mr. Murdstone , 'take care , if you please . 
'Who is ? asked the gentleman , laughing . 
I looked up , quickly being curious to know . 
'Only Brooks of Sheffield , said Mr. Murdstone . 
There was more laughter at this , and Mr. Quinion said he would ring the bell for some sherry in which to drink to Brooks . 
In short , we quite enjoyed ourselves . 
I must not forget that we went on board the yacht , where they all three descended into the cabin , and were busy with some papers . 
I saw them quite hard at work , when I looked down through the open skylight . 
I observed all day that Mr. Murdstone was graver and steadier than the two gentlemen . 
They were very gay and careless . 
They joked freely with one another , but seldom with him . 
It appeared to me that he was more clever and cold than they were , and that they regarded him with something of my own feeling . 
was in high spirits , he trod upon his foot , and gave him a secret caution with his eyes , to observe Mr. Murdstone , who was sitting stern and silent . 
Nor do I recollect that Mr. Murdstone laughed at all that day , except at the Sheffield joke and that , by the by , was his own . 
We went home early in the evening . 
It was a very fine evening , and my mother and he had another stroll by the sweetbriar , while I was sent in to get my tea . 
When he was gone , my mother asked me all about the day I had had , and what they had said and done . 
I mentioned what they had said about her , and she laughed , and told me they were impudent fellows who talked nonsense but I knew it pleased her . 
I knew it quite as well as I know it now . 
My mother put her hands upon my lips to stop me . 
'It was never bewitching , she said , laughing . 
'It never could have been bewitching , Davy . 
Now I know it wasn't ! 'Yes , it was . 
Bewitching Mrs. Copperfield , I repeated stoutly . 
'No , no , it was never pretty . 
Not pretty , interposed my mother , laying her fingers on my lips again . 
'What foolish , impudent creatures ! cried my mother , laughing and covering her face . 
'What ridiculous men ! An't they ? Davy dear 'Well , Ma . 
'Don't tell Peggotty she might be angry with them . 
I am dreadfully angry with them myself but I would rather Peggotty didn't know . 
I promised , of course and we kissed one another over and over again , and I soon fell fast asleep . 
, in company with the stocking and the yard measure , and the bit of wax , and the box with St . 
'Oh , what an agreeable man he is ! cried Peggotty , holding up her hands . 
I'll ask her , if you like , as soon as ever she comes home . 
There now ! 'But what's she to do while we're away ? said I , putting my small elbows on the table to argue the point . 
'She can't live by herself . 
'I say ! Peggotty ! She can't live by herself , you know . 
'Oh , bless you ! said Peggotty , looking at me again at last . 
'Don't you know ? She's going to stay for a fortnight with Mrs. Grayper . 
Mrs. Grayper's going to have a lot of company . 
Oh ! If that was it , I was quite ready to go . 
, to ascertain if we could get leave to carry out this great idea . 
The day soon came for our going . 
We were to go in a carrier's cart , which departed in the morning after breakfast . 
I would have given any money to have been allowed to wrap myself up over night , and sleep in my hat and boots . 
I am glad to know that my mother cried too , and that I felt her heart beat against mine . 
I am glad to dwell upon the earnestness and love with which she lifted up her face to mine , and did so . 
As we left her standing in the road , Mr. Murdstone came up to where she was , and seemed to expostulate with her for being so moved . 
I was looking back round the awning of the cart , and wondered what business it was of his . 
Peggotty , who was also looking back on the other side , seemed anything but satisfied as the face she brought back in the cart denoted . 
I fancied , indeed , that he sometimes chuckled audibly over this reflection , but the carrier said he was only troubled with a cough . 
Peggotty had a basket of refreshments on her knee , which would have lasted us out handsomely , if we had been going to London by the same conveyance . 
We ate a good deal , and slept a good deal . 
But I reflected that Yarmouth might be situated at one of the poles which would account for it . 
that Yarmouth was , upon the whole , the finest place in the universe . 
But our intimacy was much advanced by his taking me on his back to carry me home . 
He was dressed in a canvas jacket , and a pair of such very stiff trousers that they would have stood quite as well alone , without any legs in them . 
And you couldn't so properly have said he wore a hat , as that he was covered in a top , like an old building , with something pitchy . 
'That's not it ? said I. 'That ship looking thing ? 'That's it , Mas'r Davy , returned Ham . 
If it had been Aladdin's palace , roc's egg and all , I suppose I could not have been more charmed with the romantic idea of living in it . 
That was the captivation of it to me . 
It was beautifully clean inside , and as tidy as possible . 
Abraham in red going to sacrifice Isaac in blue , and Daniel in yellow cast into a den of green lions , were the most prominent of these . 
All this I saw in the first glance after I crossed the threshold child like , according to my theory and then Peggotty opened a little door and showed me my bedroom . 
The walls were whitewashed as white as milk , and the patchwork counterpane made my eyes quite ache with its brightness . 
with a necklace of blue beads on , who wouldn't let me kiss her when I offered to , but ran away and hid herself . 
'Glad to see you , sir , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'You'll find us rough , sir , but you'll find us ready . 
I thanked him , and replied that I was sure I should be happy in such a delightful place . 
'How's your Ma , sir ? said Mr. Peggotty . 
'I'm much obleeged to her , I'm sure , said Mr. Peggotty . 
, it seemed to me the most delicious retreat that the imagination of man could conceive . 
Mrs. Peggotty with the white apron , was knitting on the opposite side of the fire . 
Peggotty at her needlework was as much at home with St . 
Paul's and the bit of wax candle , as if they had never known any other roof . 
Mr. Peggotty was smoking his pipe . 
I felt it was a time for conversation and confidence . 
Peggotty ! says I. 'Sir , says he . 
I never giv him no name . 
'Who gave him that name , then ? said I , putting question number two of the catechism to Mr. Peggotty . 
'Why , sir , his father giv it him , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'I thought you were his father ! 'My brother Joe was his father , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'Dead , Mr. Peggotty ? I hinted , after a respectful pause . 
'Drowndead , said Mr. Peggotty . 
I was very much surprised that Mr. Peggotty was not Ham's father , and began to wonder whether I was mistaken about his relationship to anybody else there . 
I was so curious to know , that I made up my mind to have it out with Mr. Peggotty . 
'Little Em'ly , I said , glancing at her . 
'She is your daughter , isn't she , Mr. Peggotty ? 'No , sir . 
My brother in law , Tom , was her father . 
Dead , Mr. Peggotty ? I hinted , after another respectful silence . 
'Drowndead , said Mr. Peggotty . 
I felt the difficulty of resuming the subject , but had not got to the bottom of it yet , and must get to the bottom somehow . 
So I said 'Haven't you ANY children , Mr. Peggotty ? 'No , master , he answered with a short laugh . 
'A bachelor ! I said , astonished . 
'Why , who's that , Mr. Peggotty ? pointing to the person in the apron who was knitting . 
'That's Missis Gummidge , said Mr. Peggotty . 
He was but a poor man himself , said Peggotty , but as good as gold and as true as steel those were her similes . 
, and swore a dreadful oath that he would be 'Gormed' if he didn't cut and run for good , if it was ever mentioned again . 
But I bethought myself that I was in a boat , after all and that a man like Mr. Peggotty was not a bad person to have on board if anything did happen . 
Nothing happened , however , worse than morning . 
Almost as soon as it shone upon the oyster shell frame of my mirror I was out of bed , and out with little Em'ly , picking up stones upon the beach . 
'You're quite a sailor , I suppose ? I said to Em'ly . 
'No , replied Em'ly , shaking her head , 'I'm afraid of the sea . 
'Afraid ! I said , with a becoming air of boldness , and looking very big at the mighty ocean . 
'I an't ! 'Ah ! but it's cruel , said Em'ly . 
'I have seen it very cruel to some of our men . 
I have seen it tear a boat as big as our house , all to pieces . 
'I hope it wasn't the boat that 'That father was drownded in ? said Em'ly . 
Not that one , I never see that boat . 
'Nor him ? I asked her . 
Little Em'ly shook her head . 
But there were some differences between Em'ly's orphanhood and mine , it appeared . 
She had lost her mother before her father and where her father's grave was no one knew , except that it was somewhere in the depths of the sea . 
'Dan is Mr. Peggotty , is he ? said I. 'Uncle Dan yonder , answered Em'ly , nodding at the boat house . 
He must be very good , I should think ? 'Good ? said Em'ly . 
I said I had no doubt that Mr. Peggotty well deserved these treasures . 
Little Em'ly had stopped and looked up at the sky in her enumeration of these articles , as if they were a glorious vision . 
We went on again , picking up shells and pebbles . 
'You would like to be a lady ? I said . 
Emily looked at me , and laughed and nodded 'yes' . 
'I should like it very much . 
We would all be gentlefolks together , then . 
Me , and uncle , and Ham , and Mrs. Gummidge . 
We wouldn't mind then , when there comes stormy weather . 
Not for our own sakes , I mean . 
We would for the poor fishermen's , to be sure , and we'd help 'em with money when they come to any hurt . 
This seemed to me to be a very satisfactory and therefore not at all improbable picture . 
'I'm not afraid in this way , said little Em'ly . 
'But I wake when it blows , and tremble to think of Uncle Dan and Ham and believe I hear 'em crying out for help . 
That's why I should like so much to be a lady . 
But I'm not afraid in this way . 
, with a look that I have never forgotten , directed far out to sea . 
I have set it down too soon , perhaps . 
We stopped under the lee of the lobster outhouse to exchange an innocent kiss , and went in to breakfast glowing with health and pleasure . 
'Like two young mavishes , Mr. Peggotty said . 
I knew this meant , in our local dialect , like two young thrushes , and received it as a compliment . 
Of course I was in love with little Em'ly . 
I am sure my fancy raised up something round that blue eyed mite of a child , which etherealized , and made a very angel of her . 
We used to walk about that dim old flat at Yarmouth in a loving manner , hours and hours . 
The days sported by us , as if Time had not grown up himself yet , but were a child too , and always at play . 
I told Em'ly I adored her , and that unless she confessed she adored me I should be reduced to the necessity of killing myself with a sword . 
She said she did , and I have no doubt she did . 
As to any sense of inequality , or youthfulness , or other difficulty in our way , little Em'ly and I had no such trouble , because we had no future . 
We made no more provision for growing older , than we did for growing younger . 
They had something of the sort of pleasure in us , I suppose , that they might have had in a pretty toy , or a pocket model of the Colosseum . 
I soon found out that Mrs. Gummidge did not always make herself so agreeable as she might have been expected to do , under the circumstances of her residence with Mr. Peggotty . 
Mrs. Gummidge's was rather a fretful disposition , and she whimpered more sometimes than was comfortable for other parties in so small an establishment . 
Mr. Peggotty went occasionally to a public house called The Willing Mind . 
Mrs. Gummidge had been in a low state all day , and had burst into tears in the forenoon , when the fire smoked . 
'I am a lone lorn creetur' , were Mrs. Gummidge's words , when that unpleasant occurrence took place , 'and everythink goes contrary with me . 
'Oh , it'll soon leave off , said Peggotty I again mean our Peggotty 'and besides , you know , it's not more disagreeable to you than to us . 
'I feel it more , said Mrs. Gummidge . 
It was a very cold day , with cutting blasts of wind . 
She was constantly complaining of the cold , and of its occasioning a visitation in her back which she called 'the creeps' . 
At last she shed tears on that subject , and said again that she was 'a lone lorn creetur' and everythink went contrary with her' . 
'It is certainly very cold , said Peggotty . 
'Everybody must feel it so . 
'I feel it more than other people , said Mrs. Gummidge . 
So at dinner when Mrs. Gummidge was always helped immediately after me , to whom the preference was given as a visitor of distinction . 
The fish were small and bony , and the potatoes were a little burnt . 
Accordingly , when Mr. Peggotty came home about nine o'clock , this unfortunate Mrs. Gummidge was knitting in her corner , in a very wretched and miserable condition . 
Peggotty had been working cheerfully . 
Ham had been patching up a great pair of waterboots and I , with little Em'ly by my side , had been reading to them . 
Mrs. Gummidge had never made any other remark than a forlorn sigh , and had never raised her eyes since tea . 
'What's amiss ? said Mr. Peggotty , with a clap of his hands . 
Mrs. Gummidge did not appear to be able to cheer up . 
'What's amiss , dame ? said Mr. Peggotty . 
'Nothing , returned Mrs. Gummidge . 
'You've come from The Willing Mind , Dan'l ? 'Why yes , I've took a short spell at The Willing Mind tonight , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'I'm sorry I should drive you there , said Mrs. Gummidge . 
'Drive ! I don't want no driving , returned Mr. Peggotty with an honest laugh . 
'I only go too ready . 
'Very ready , said Mrs. Gummidge , shaking her head , and wiping her eyes . 
'Yes , yes , very ready . 
I am sorry it should be along of me that you're so ready . 
'Along o' you ! It an't along o' you ! said Mr. Peggotty . 
'Don't ye believe a bit on it . 
'Yes , yes , it is , cried Mrs. Gummidge . 
'I know what I am . 
I know that I am a lone lorn creetur' , and not only that everythink goes contrary with me , but that I go contrary with everybody . 
I feel more than other people do , and I show it more . 
I really couldn't help thinking , as I sat taking in all this , that the misfortune extended to some other members of that family besides Mrs. Gummidge . 
But Mr. Peggotty made no such retort , only answering with another entreaty to Mrs. Gummidge to cheer up . 
'I an't what I could wish myself to be , said Mrs. Gummidge . 
'I am far from it . 
I know what I am . 
My troubles has made me contrary . 
I feel my troubles , and they make me contrary . 
I wish I didn't feel 'em , but I do . 
I wish I could be hardened to 'em , but I an't . 
I make the house uncomfortable . 
I don't wonder at it . 
I've made your sister so all day , and Master Davy . 
Here I was suddenly melted , and roared out , 'No , you haven't , Mrs. Gummidge , in great mental distress . 
'It's far from right that I should do it , said Mrs. Gummidge . 
'It an't a fit return . 
I had better go into the house and die . 
I am a lone lorn creetur' , and had much better not make myself contrary here . 
If thinks must go contrary with me , and I must go contrary myself , let me go contrary in my parish . 
Dan'l , I'd better go into the house , and die and be a riddance ! Mrs. Gummidge retired with these words , and betook herself to bed . 
, he always said the same thing in extenuation of the circumstance , and always with the tenderest commiseration . 
So the fortnight slipped away , varied by nothing but the variation of the tide , which altered Mr. Peggotty's times of going out and coming in , and altered Ham's engagements also . 
When the latter was unemployed , he sometimes walked with us to show us the boats and ships , and once or twice he took us for a row . 
At last the day came for going home . 
I bore up against the separation from Mr. Peggotty and Mrs. Gummidge , but my agony of mind at leaving little Em'ly was piercing . 
We went arm in arm to the public house where the carrier put up , and I promised , on the road , to write to her . 
We were greatly overcome at parting and if ever , in my life , I have had a void made in my heart , I had one made that day . 
Now , all the time I had been on my visit , I had been ungrateful to my home again , and had thought little or nothing about it . 
But Peggotty , instead of sharing in those transports , tried to check them , and looked confused and out of sorts . 
Blunderstone Rookery would come , however , in spite of her , when the carrier's horse pleased and did . 
It was not she , but a strange servant . 
'Why , Peggotty ! I said , ruefully , 'isn't she come home ? 'Yes , yes , Master Davy , said Peggotty . 
Wait a bit , Master Davy , and I'll I'll tell you something . 
When she had got down , she took me by the hand led me , wondering , into the kitchen and shut the door . 
'Peggotty ! said I , quite frightened . 
'What's the matter ? 'Nothing's the matter , bless you , Master Davy dear ! she answered , assuming an air of sprightliness . 
'Something's the matter , I'm sure . 
Where's mama ? 'Where's mama , Master Davy ? repeated Peggotty . 
'Bless the precious boy ! cried Peggotty , taking hold of me . 
'You see , dear , I should have told you before now , said Peggotty , 'but I hadn't an opportunity . 
I ought to have made it , perhaps , but I couldn't azackly' that was always the substitute for exactly , in Peggotty's militia of words 'bring my mind to it . 
'Go on , Peggotty , said I , more frightened than before . 
'Master Davy , said Peggotty , untying her bonnet with a shaking hand , and speaking in a breathless sort of way . 
'What do you think ? You have got a Pa ! I trembled , and turned white . 
Something I don't know what , or how connected with the grave in the churchyard , and the raising of the dead , seemed to strike me like an unwholesome wind . 
'A new one , said Peggotty . 
'A new one ? I repeated . 
Peggotty gave a gasp , as if she were swallowing something that was very hard , and , putting out her hand , said 'Come and see him . 
'I don't want to see him . 
'And your mama , said Peggotty . 
I ceased to draw back , and we went straight to the best parlour , where she left me . 
On one side of the fire , sat my mother on the other , Mr. Murdstone . 
My mother dropped her work , and arose hurriedly , but timidly I thought . 
'Now , Clara my dear , said Mr. Murdstone . 
'Recollect ! control yourself , always control yourself ! Davy boy , how do you do ? I gave him my hand . 
After a moment of suspense , I went and kissed my mother she kissed me , patted me gently on the shoulder , and sat down again to her work . 
As soon as I could creep away , I crept upstairs . 
My old dear bedroom was changed , and I was to lie a long way off . 
I rambled downstairs to find anything that was like itself , so altered it all seemed and roamed into the yard . 
I thought of the oddest things . 
I was crying all the time , but , except that I was conscious of being cold and dejected , I am sure I never thought why I cried . 
This made such a very miserable piece of business of it , that I rolled myself up in a corner of the counterpane , and cried myself to sleep . 
I was awoke by somebody saying 'Here he is ! and uncovering my hot head . 
My mother and Peggotty had come to look for me , and it was one of them who had done it . 
'Davy , said my mother . 
'What's the matter ? I thought it was very strange that she should ask me , and answered , 'Nothing . 
I turned over on my face , I recollect , to hide my trembling lip , which answered her with greater truth . 
'Davy , said my mother . 
'Davy , my child ! I dare say no words she could have uttered would have affected me so much , then , as her calling me her child . 
I hid my tears in the bedclothes , and pressed her from me with my hand , when she would have raised me up . 
'This is your doing , Peggotty , you cruel thing ! said my mother . 
'I have no doubt at all about it . 
'In my honeymoon , too , when my most inveterate enemy might relent , one would think , and not envy me a little peace of mind and happiness . 
'I meant to be very good , but I am so uncomfortable . 
'That's a bad hearing , so soon , Clara . 
'Go you below , my love , said Mr. Murdstone . 
'David and I will come down , together . 
'That's true , he answered . 
'But I thought I heard you , as I came upstairs , address her by a name that is not hers . 
She has taken mine , you know . 
When we two were left alone , he shut the door , and sitting on a chair , and holding me standing before him , looked steadily into my eyes . 
I felt my own attracted , no less steadily , to his . 
As I recall our being opposed thus , face to face , I seem again to hear my heart beat fast and high . 
I had answered in a kind of breathless whisper , but I felt , in my silence , that my breath was shorter now . 
'I make him wince , and smart . 
I say to myself , I'll conquer that fellow and if it were to cost him all the blood he had , I should do it . 
What is that upon your face ? 'Dirt , I said . 
'You have a good deal of intelligence for a little fellow , he said , with a grave smile that belonged to him , 'and you understood me very well , I see . 
Wash that face , sir , and come down with me . 
He pointed to the washing stand , which I had made out to be like Mrs. Gummidge , and motioned me with his head to obey him directly . 
I had little doubt then , and I have less doubt now , that he would have knocked me down without the least compunction , if I had hesitated . 
We shall soon improve our youthful humours . 
God help me , I might have been improved for my whole life , I might have been made another creature perhaps , for life , by a kind word at that season . 
We dined alone , we three together . 
He seemed to be very fond of my mother I am afraid I liked him none the better for that and she was very fond of him . 
I gathered from what they said , that an elder sister of his was coming to stay with them , and that she was expected that evening . 
She brought with her two uncompromising hard black boxes , with her initials on the lids in hard brass nails . 
I had never , at that time , seen such a metallic lady altogether as Miss Murdstone was . 
She was brought into the parlour with many tokens of welcome , and there formally recognized my mother as a new and near relation . 
Then she looked at me , and said 'Is that your boy , sister in law ? My mother acknowledged me . 
'Generally speaking , said Miss Murdstone , 'I don't like boys . 
numerous little steel fetters and rivets , with which Miss Murdstone embellished herself when she was dressed , generally hung upon the looking glass in formidable array . 
As well as I could make out , she had come for good , and had no intention of ever going again . 
She began to 'help' my mother next morning , and was in and out of the store closet all day , putting things to rights , and making havoc in the old arrangements . 
Almost the first remarkable thing I observed in Miss Murdstone was , her being constantly haunted by a suspicion that the servants had a man secreted somewhere on the premises . 
Though there was nothing very airy about Miss Murdstone , she was a perfect Lark in point of getting up . 
before anybody in the house was stirring . 
On the very first morning after her arrival she was up and ringing her bell at cock crow . 
You're much too pretty and thoughtless' my mother blushed but laughed , and seemed not to dislike this character 'to have any duties imposed upon you that can be undertaken by me . 
If you'll be so good as give me your keys , my dear , I'll attend to all this sort of thing in future . 
My mother did not suffer her authority to pass from her without a shadow of protest . 
'Clara ! said Mr. Murdstone sternly . 
'Clara ! I wonder at you . 
'Oh , it's very well to say you wonder , Edward ! cried my mother , 'and it's very well for you to talk about firmness , but you wouldn't like it yourself . 
Firmness , I may observe , was the grand quality on which both Mr. and Miss Murdstone took their stand . 
The creed , as I should state it now , was this . 
Miss Murdstone was an exception . 
She might be firm , but only by relationship , and in an inferior and tributary degree . 
My mother was another exception . 
She might be firm , and must be but only in bearing their firmness , and firmly believing there was no other firmness upon earth . 
'It's very hard , said my mother , 'that in my own house 'My own house ? repeated Mr. Murdstone . 
I am sure I managed very well before we were married . 
I should be very miserable and unhappy if anybody was to go . 
I only want to be consulted sometimes . 
I am very much obliged to anybody who assists me , and I only want to be consulted as a mere form , sometimes . 
'Edward , said Miss Murdstone , again , 'let there be an end of this . 
'Jane Murdstone , thundered Mr. Murdstone . 
'Will you be silent ? How dare you ? Miss Murdstone made a jail delivery of her pocket handkerchief , and held it before her eyes . 
I am sure I am not ungrateful . 
No one ever said I was before . 
I have many faults , but not that . 
'Don't , my love , say that ! implored my mother very piteously . 
'Oh , don't , Edward ! I can't bear to hear it . 
Whatever I am , I am affectionate . 
I know I am affectionate . 
I wouldn't say it , if I wasn't sure that I am . 
I am sure she'll tell you I'm affectionate . 
'There is no extent of mere weakness , Clara , said Mr. Murdstone in reply , 'that can have the least weight with me . 
'Pray let us be friends , said my mother , 'I couldn't live under coldness or unkindness . 
I have a great many defects , I know , and it's very good of you , Edward , with your strength of mind , to endeavour to correct them for me . 
Jane , I don't object to anything . 
I should be quite broken hearted if you thought of leaving My mother was too much overcome to go on . 
'Jane Murdstone , said Mr. Murdstone to his sister , 'any harsh words between us are , I hope , uncommon . 
It is not my fault that so unusual an occurrence has taken place tonight . 
I was betrayed into it by another . 
Nor is it your fault . 
You were betrayed into it by another . 
Let us both try to forget it . 
Going down next morning rather earlier than usual , I paused outside the parlour door , on hearing my mother's voice . 
She was very earnestly and humbly entreating Miss Murdstone's pardon , which that lady granted , and a perfect reconciliation took place . 
The gloomy taint that was in the Murdstone blood , darkened the Murdstone religion , which was austere and wrathful . 
Be this as it may , I well remember the tremendous visages with which we used to go to church , and the changed air of the place . 
Again , the dreaded Sunday comes round , and I file into the old pew first , like a guarded captive brought to a condemned service . 
There is no Peggotty now , as in the old time . 
Again , I listen to Miss Murdstone mumbling the responses , and emphasizing all the dread words with a cruel relish . 
Again , I see her dark eyes roll round the church when she says 'miserable sinners' , as if she were calling all the congregation names . 
Again , I catch rare glimpses of my mother , moving her lips timidly between the two , with one of them muttering at each ear like low thunder . 
Again , if I move a finger or relax a muscle of my face , Miss Murdstone pokes me with her prayer book , and makes my side ache . 
Yes , and again , as we walk home , I note some neighbours looking at my mother and at me , and whispering . 
There had been some talk on occasions of my going to boarding school . 
Mr. and Miss Murdstone had originated it , and my mother had of course agreed with them . 
Nothing , however , was concluded on the subject yet . 
In the meantime , I learnt lessons at home . 
I believe I was kept at home for that purpose . 
I had been apt enough to learn , and willing enough , when my mother and I had lived alone together . 
I can faintly remember learning the alphabet at her knee . 
But they recall no feeling of disgust or reluctance . 
But these solemn lessons which succeeded those , I remember as the death blow of my peace , and a grievous daily drudgery and misery . 
Let me remember how it used to be , and bring one morning back again . 
I come into the second best parlour after breakfast , with my books , and an exercise book , and a slate . 
, or as Miss Murdstone , sitting near my mother stringing steel beads . 
I wonder where they do go , by the by ? I hand the first book to my mother . 
Perhaps it is a grammar , perhaps a history , or geography . 
I take a last drowning look at the page as I give it into her hand , and start off aloud at a racing pace while I have got it fresh . 
I trip over a word . 
I trip over another word . 
I redden , tumble over half a dozen words , and stop . 
Don't say , Oh , Davy , Davy ! That's childish . 
He knows his lesson , or he does not know it . 
'He does NOT know it , Miss Murdstone interposes awfully . 
'I am really afraid he does not , says my mother . 
'Then , you see , Clara , returns Miss Murdstone , 'you should just give him the book back , and make him know it . 
'Yes , certainly , says my mother 'that is what I intend to do , my dear Jane . 
Now , Davy , try once more , and don't be stupid . 
I obey the first clause of the injunction by trying once more , but am not so successful with the second , for I am very stupid . 
I tumble down before I get to the old place , at a point where I was all right before , and stop to think . 
But I can't think about the lesson . 
Mr. Murdstone makes a movement of impatience which I have been expecting for a long time . 
Miss Murdstone does the same . 
My mother glances submissively at them , shuts the book , and lays it by as an arrear to be worked out when my other tasks are done . 
There is a pile of these arrears very soon , and it swells like a rolling snowball . 
The bigger it gets , the more stupid I get . 
The despairing way in which my mother and I look at each other , as I blunder on , is truly melancholy . 
tries to give me the cue by the motion of her lips . 
Mr. Murdstone comes out of his chair , takes the book , throws it at me or boxes my ears with it , and turns me out of the room by the shoulders . 
Even when the lessons are done , the worst is yet to happen , in the shape of an appalling sum . 
It seems to me , at this distance of time , as if my unfortunate studies generally took this course . 
I could have done very well if I had been without the Murdstones but the influence of the Murdstones upon me was like the fascination of two snakes on a wretched young bird . 
, and held that they contaminated one another . 
The natural result of this treatment , continued , I suppose , for some six months or more , was to make me sullen , dull , and dogged . 
I was not made the less so by my sense of being daily more and more shut out and alienated from my mother . 
I believe I should have been almost stupefied but for one circumstance . 
and which nobody else in our house ever troubled . 
It is astonishing to me now , how I found time , in the midst of my porings and blunderings over heavier themes , to read those books as I did . 
, by impersonating my favourite characters in them as I did and by putting Mr. and Miss Murdstone into all the bad ones which I did too . 
I have sustained my own idea of Roderick Random for a month at a stretch , I verily believe . 
The Captain never lost dignity , from having his ears boxed with the Latin Grammar . 
I did but the Captain was a Captain and a hero , in despite of all the grammars of all the languages in the world , dead or alive . 
This was my only and my constant comfort . 
The reader now understands , as well as I do , what I was when I came to that point of my youthful history to which I am now coming again . 
'I tell you , Clara , said Mr. Murdstone , 'I have been often flogged myself . 
'To be sure of course , said Miss Murdstone . 
'Certainly , my dear Jane , faltered my mother , meekly . 
'But but do you think it did Edward good ? 'Do you think it did Edward harm , Clara ? asked Mr. Murdstone , gravely . 
'That's the point , said his sister . 
To this my mother returned , 'Certainly , my dear Jane , and said no more . 
I felt apprehensive that I was personally interested in this dialogue , and sought Mr. Murdstone's eye as it lighted on mine . 
'Now , David , he said and I saw that cast again as he said it 'you must be far more careful today than usual . 
This was a good freshener to my presence of mind , as a beginning . 
We began badly , and went on worse . 
I had come in with an idea of distinguishing myself rather , conceiving that I was very well prepared but it turned out to be quite a mistake . 
Book after book was added to the heap of failures , Miss Murdstone being firmly watchful of us all the time . 
, my mother burst out crying . 
'Clara ! said Miss Murdstone , in her warning voice . 
'I am not quite well , my dear Jane , I think , said my mother . 
Clara is greatly strengthened and improved , but we can hardly expect so much from her . 
David , you and I will go upstairs , boy . 
As he took me out at the door , my mother ran towards us . 
Miss Murdstone said , 'Clara ! are you a perfect fool ? and interfered . 
I saw my mother stop her ears then , and I heard her crying . 
Murdstone ! Sir ! I cried to him . 
'Don't ! Pray don't beat me ! I have tried to learn , sir , but I can't learn while you and Miss Murdstone are by . 
I can't indeed ! 'Can't you , indeed , David ? he said . 
He had my head as in a vice , but I twined round him somehow , and stopped him for a moment , entreating him not to beat me . 
It sets my teeth on edge to think of it . 
He beat me then , as if he would have beaten me to death . 
Above all the noise we made , I heard them running up the stairs , and crying out I heard my mother crying out and Peggotty . 
I crawled up from the floor , and saw my face in the glass , so swollen , red , and ugly that it almost frightened me . 
My stripes were sore and stiff , and made me cry afresh , when I moved but they were nothing to the guilt I felt . 
It lay heavier on my breast than if I had been a most atrocious criminal , I dare say . 
, when the key was turned , and Miss Murdstone came in with some bread and meat , and milk . 
These she put down upon the table without a word , glaring at me the while with exemplary firmness , and then retired , locking the door after her . 
Long after it was dark I sat there , wondering whether anybody else would come . 
When this appeared improbable for that night , I undressed , and went to bed and , there , I began to wonder fearfully what would be done to me . 
I did so , and did so every morning of my imprisonment , which lasted five days . 
The length of those five days I can convey no idea of to any one . 
They occupy the place of years in my remembrance . 
On the last night of my restraint , I was awakened by hearing my own name spoken in a whisper . 
'Be as soft as a mouse , or the Cat'll hear us . 
I understood this to mean Miss Murdstone , and was sensible of the urgency of the case her room being close by . 
'What is going to be done with me , Peggotty dear ? Do you know ? 'School . 
Near London , was Peggotty's answer . 
'When , Peggotty ? 'Tomorrow . 
'Is that the reason why Miss Murdstone took the clothes out of my drawers ? which she had done , though I have forgotten to mention it . 
'Shan't I see mama ? 'Yes , said Peggotty . 
If I ain't been azackly as intimate with you . 
Lately , as I used to be . 
It ain't because I don't love you . 
just as well and more , my pretty poppet . 
It's because I thought it better for you . 
And for someone else besides . 
Davy , my darling , are you listening ? Can you hear ? 'Ye ye ye yes , Peggotty ! I sobbed . 
'My own ! said Peggotty , with infinite compassion . 
'What I want to say , is . 
That you must never forget me . 
For I'll never forget you . 
And I'll take as much care of your mama , Davy . 
As ever I took of you . 
And I won't leave her . 
The day may come when she'll be glad to lay her poor head . 
On her stupid , cross old Peggotty's arm again . 
And I'll write to you , my dear . 
Though I ain't no scholar . 
And I'll I'll Peggotty fell to kissing the keyhole , as she couldn't kiss me . 
From that night there grew up in my breast a feeling for Peggotty which I cannot very well define . 
In the morning Miss Murdstone appeared as usual , and told me I was going to school which was not altogether such news to me as she supposed . 
She also informed me that when I was dressed , I was to come downstairs into the parlour , and have my breakfast . 
There , I found my mother , very pale and with red eyes into whose arms I ran , and begged her pardon from my suffering soul . 
'Oh , Davy ! she said . 
They had persuaded her that I was a wicked fellow , and she was more sorry for that than for my going away . 
I tried to eat my parting breakfast , but my tears dropped upon my bread and butter , and trickled into my tea . 
I saw my mother look at me sometimes , and then glance at the watchful Miss Murdstone , and than look down , or look away . 
'Master Copperfield's box there ! said Miss Murdstone , when wheels were heard at the gate . 
I looked for Peggotty , but it was not she neither she nor Mr. Murdstone appeared . 
My former acquaintance , the carrier , was at the door . 
the box was taken out to his cart , and lifted in . 
'Clara ! said Miss Murdstone , in her warning note . 
'Ready , my dear Jane , returned my mother . 
You are going for your own good . 
Good bye , my child . 
You will come home in the holidays , and be a better boy . 
'Clara ! Miss Murdstone repeated . 
'Certainly , my dear Jane , replied my mother , who was holding me . 
'I forgive you , my dear boy . 
God bless you ! 'Clara ! Miss Murdstone repeated . 
CHAPTER I AM SENT AWAY FROM HOME We might have gone about half a mile , and my pocket handkerchief was quite wet through , when the carrier stopped short . 
Looking out to ascertain for what , I saw , to MY amazement , Peggotty burst from a hedge and climb into the cart . 
Not a single word did Peggotty speak . 
I picked up one , of several that were rolling about , and treasured it as a keepsake for a long time . 
The carrier looked at me , as if to inquire if she were coming back . 
I shook my head , and said I thought not . 
'Then come up , said the carrier to the lazy horse who came up accordingly . 
The carrier , seeing me in this resolution , proposed that my pocket handkerchief should be spread upon the horse's back to dry . 
I thanked him , and assented and particularly small it looked , under those circumstances . 
I had now leisure to examine the purse . 
It was a stiff leather purse , with a snap , and had three bright shillings in it , which Peggotty had evidently polished up with whitening , for my greater delight . 
But its most precious contents were two half crowns folded together in a bit of paper , on which was written , in my mother's hand , 'For Davy . 
For good , too though , in consequence of my previous emotions , I was still occasionally seized with a stormy sob . 
After we had jogged on for some little time , I asked the carrier if he was going all the way . 
'All the way where ? inquired the carrier . 
'Where's there ? inquired the carrier . 
'Near London , I said . 
'Why that horse , said the carrier , jerking the rein to point him out , 'would be deader than pork afore he got over half the ground . 
'Are you only going to Yarmouth then ? I asked . 
'That's about it , said the carrier . 
'And there I shall take you to the stage cutch , and the stage cutch that'll take you to wherever it is . 
'Did SHE make 'em , now ? said Mr. Barkis , always leaning forward , in his slouching way , on the footboard of the cart with an arm on each knee . 
'Peggotty , do you mean , sir ? 'Ah ! said Mr. Barkis . 
She makes all our pastry , and does all our cooking . 
'Do she though ? said Mr. Barkis . 
He made up his mouth as if to whistle , but he didn't whistle . 
He sat looking at the horse's ears , as if he saw something new there and sat so , for a considerable time . 
'Hearts , said Mr. Barkis . 
'Sweet hearts no person walks with her ! 'With Peggotty ? 'Ah ! he said . 
She never had a sweetheart . 
'Didn't she , though ! said Mr. Barkis . 
Again he made up his mouth to whistle , and again he didn't whistle , but sat looking at the horse's ears . 
I'll tell you what , said Mr. Barkis . 
'P'raps you might be writin' to her ? 'I shall certainly write to her , I rejoined . 
'Ah ! he said , slowly turning his eyes towards me . 
'Well ! If you was writin' to her , p'raps you'd recollect to say that Barkis was willin' would you ? 'That Barkis is willing , I repeated , innocently . 
'Is that all the message ? 'Ye es , he said , considering . 
As he repudiated this suggestion , however , with a jerk of his head , and once more confirmed his previous request by saying , with profound gravity , 'Barkis is willin' . 
That's the message , I readily undertook its transmission . 
I have come here safe . 
P. S. He says he particularly wants you to know BARKIS IS WILLING . 
'What name ? inquired the lady . 
'Copperfield , ma'am , I said . 
'That won't do , returned the lady . 
'Nobody's dinner is paid for here , in that name . 
'Is it Murdstone , ma'am ? I said . 
It was a large long room with some large maps in it . 
I doubt if I could have felt much stranger if the maps had been real foreign countries , and I cast away in the middle of them . 
He brought me some chops , and vegetables , and took the covers off in such a bouncing manner that I was afraid I must have given him some offence . 
After watching me into the second chop , he said 'There's half a pint of ale for you . 
Will you have it now ? I thanked him and said , 'Yes . 
Upon which he poured it out of a jug into a large tumbler , and held it up against the light , and made it look beautiful . 
'My eye ! he said . 
'It seems a good deal , don't it ? 'It does seem a good deal , I answered with a smile . 
For it was quite delightful to me , to find him so pleasant . 
It was too old for him . 
It oughtn't to be drawn that's the fact . 
I was very much shocked to hear of this melancholy accident , and said I thought I had better have some water . 
But I'll drink it , if you like . 
I'm used to it , and use is everything . 
I don't think it'll hurt me , if I throw my head back , and take it off quick . 
Shall I ? I replied that he would much oblige me by drinking it , if he thought he could do it safely , but by no means otherwise . 
But it didn't hurt him . 
On the contrary , I thought he seemed the fresher for it . 
'What have we got here ? he said , putting a fork into my dish . 
'Not chops ? 'Chops , I said . 
'Lord bless my soul ! he exclaimed , 'I didn't know they were chops . 
He afterwards took another chop , and another potato and after that , another chop and another potato . 
When we had done , he brought me a pudding , and having set it before me , seemed to ruminate , and to become absent in his mind for some moments . 
'How's the pie ? he said , rousing himself . 
'It's a pudding , I made answer . 
'Why , bless me , so it is ! What ! looking at it nearer . 
'You don't mean to say it's a batter pudding ! 'Yes , it is indeed . 
The waiter certainly got most . 
I never saw anyone enjoy a pudding so much , I think and he laughed , when it was all gone , as if his enjoyment of it lasted still . 
Finding him so very friendly and companionable , it was then that I asked for the pen and ink and paper , to write to Peggotty . 
He not only brought it immediately , but was good enough to look over me while I wrote the letter . 
When I had finished it , he asked me where I was going to school . 
I said , 'Near London , which was all I knew . 
'Oh ! my eye ! he said , looking very low spirited , 'I am sorry for that . 
'Why ? I asked him . 
'Oh , Lord ! he said , shaking his head , 'that's the school where they broke the boy's ribs two ribs a little boy he was . 
I should say he was let me see how old are you , about ? I told him between eight and nine . 
'That's just his age , he said . 
'He was eight years and six months old when they broke his first rib eight years and eight months old when they broke his second , and did for him . 
I could not disguise from myself , or from the waiter , that this was an uncomfortable coincidence , and inquired how it was done . 
His answer was not cheering to my spirits , for it consisted of two dismal words , 'With whopping . 
, if there were anything to pay . 
'There's a sheet of letter paper , he returned . 
'Did you ever buy a sheet of letter paper ? I could not remember that I ever had . 
'It's dear , he said , 'on account of the duty . 
That's the way we're taxed in this country . 
There's nothing else , except the waiter . 
'What should you what should I how much ought I to what would it be right to pay the waiter , if you please ? I stammered , blushing . 
'If I hadn't a family , and that family hadn't the cowpock , said the waiter , 'I wouldn't take a sixpence . 
If I didn't support a aged pairint , and a lovely sister , here the waiter was greatly agitated 'I wouldn't take a farthing . 
If I had a good place , and was treated well here , I should beg acceptance of a trifle , instead of taking of it . 
But I live on broken wittles and I sleep on the coals' here the waiter burst into tears . 
I was very much concerned for his misfortunes , and felt that any recognition short of ninepence would be mere brutality and hardness of heart . 
My unfortunate friend the waiter , who had quite recovered his spirits , did not appear to be disturbed by this , but joined in the general admiration without being at all confused . 
, I had no serious mistrust of him on the whole , even then . 
When we stopped for supper I couldn't muster courage to take any , though I should have liked it very much , but sat by the fire and said I didn't want anything . 
We had started from Yarmouth at three o'clock in the afternoon , and we were due in London about eight next morning . 
It was Mid summer weather , and the evening was very pleasant . 
I had plenty to think of , therefore , besides my mind running continually on the kind of place I was going to which was an awful speculation . 
to prevent my tumbling off the coach , I was nearly smothered by their falling asleep , and completely blocking me up . 
They squeezed me so hard sometimes , that I could not help crying out , 'Oh ! If you please ! which they didn't like at all , because it woke them . 
Opposite me was an elderly lady in a great fur cloak , who looked in the dark more like a haystack than a lady , she was wrapped up to such a degree . 
, she gave me the cruellest poke with her foot , and said , 'Come , don't YOU fidget . 
YOUR bones are young enough , I'm sure ! At last the sun rose , and then my companions seemed to sleep easier . 
The difficulties under which they had laboured all night , and which had found utterance in the most terrific gasps and snorts , are not to be conceived . 
As the sun got higher , their sleep became lighter , and so they gradually one by one awoke . 
is the weakness of having gone to sleep in a coach . 
We approached it by degrees , and got , in due time , to the inn in the Whitechapel district , for which we were bound . 
'Try Copperfield , if you please , sir , said I , looking helplessly down . 
'Come ! IS there anybody ? No. There was nobody . 
A ladder was brought , and I got down after the lady , who was like a haystack not daring to stir , until her basket was removed . 
Still , nobody appeared , to claim the dusty youngster from Blunderstone , Suffolk . 
, a procession of most tremendous considerations began to march through my mind . 
That would obviously be inconvenient and unpleasant to the customers , besides entailing on the Blue Whatever it was , the risk of funeral expenses . 
These thoughts , and a hundred other such thoughts , turned me burning hot , and made me giddy with apprehension and dismay . 
As I went out of the office , hand in hand with this new acquaintance , I stole a look at him . 
I did not , and do not , suppose that this neck kerchief was all the linen he wore , but it was all he showed or gave any hint of . 
'You're the new boy ? he said . 
'Yes , sir , I said . 
'I'm one of the masters at Salem House , he said . 
I made him a bow and felt very much overawed . 
We turned back , on my humbly insinuating that it might be useful to me hereafter and he told the clerk that the carrier had instructions to call for it at noon . 
'If you please , sir , I said , when we had accomplished about the same distance as before , 'is it far ? 'It's down by Blackheath , he said . 
'Is that far , sir ? I diffidently asked . 
'It's a good step , he said . 
'We shall go by the stage coach . 
I was so faint and tired , that the idea of holding out for six miles more , was too much for me . 
'Can you cook this young gentleman's breakfast for him , if you please ? said the Master at Salem House . 
'Can I ? said the old woman . 
'Ah , she's poorly , said the first old woman . 
'It's one of her bad days . 
If the fire was to go out , through any accident , I verily believe she'd go out too , and never come to life again . 
As they looked at her , I looked at her also . 
Although it was a warm day , she seemed to think of nothing but the fire . 
I sat down to my brown loaf , my egg , and my rasher of bacon , with a basin of milk besides , and made a most delicious meal . 
While I was yet in the full enjoyment of it , the old woman of the house said to the Master 'Have you got your flute with you ? 'Yes , he returned . 
'Have a blow at it , said the old woman , coaxingly . 
My impression is , after many years of consideration , that there never can have been anybody in the world who played worse . 
He made the most dismal sounds I have ever heard produced by any means , natural or artificial . 
They begin to close again , and I begin to nod , as the recollection rises fresh upon me . 
The flute becomes inaudible , the wheels of the coach are heard instead , and I am on my journey . 
, to which Mrs. Fibbitson replied , 'Ay , ay ! yes ! and nodded at the fire to which , I am persuaded , she gave the credit of the whole performance . 
Presently , it stopped , and had come to its destination . 
A short walk brought us I mean the Master and me to Salem House , which was enclosed with a high brick wall , and looked very dull . 
'The new boy , said the Master . 
We were going up to the house , among some dark heavy trees , when he called after my conductor . 
'Hallo ! We looked back , and he was standing at the door of a little lodge , where he lived , with a pair of boots in his hand . 
'Here ! The cobbler's been , he said , 'since you've been out , Mr. Mell , and he says he can't mend 'em any more . 
He says there ain't a bit of the original boot left , and he wonders you expect it . 
, as we went on together . 
Salem House was a square brick building with wings of a bare and unfurnished appearance . 
All about it was so very quiet , that I said to Mr. Mell I supposed the boys were out but he seemed surprised at my not knowing that it was holiday time . 
That all the boys were at their several homes . 
I gazed upon the schoolroom into which he took me , as the most forlorn and desolate place I had ever seen . 
A long room with three long rows of desks , and six of forms , and bristling all round with pegs for hats and slates . 
Scraps of old copy books and exercises litter the dirty floor . 
Some silkworms' houses , made of the same materials , are scattered over the desks . 
There is a strange unwholesome smell upon the room , like mildewed corduroys , sweet apples wanting air , and rotten books . 
Mr. Mell having left me while he took his irreparable boots upstairs , I went softly to the upper end of the room , observing all this as I crept along . 
Suddenly I came upon a pasteboard placard , beautifully written , which was lying on the desk , and bore these words 'TAKE CARE OF HIM . 
I got upon the desk immediately , apprehensive of at least a great dog underneath . 
But , though I looked all round with anxious eyes , I could see nothing of him . 
'What dog ? 'Isn't it a dog , sir ? 'Isn't what a dog ? 'That's to be taken care of , sir that bites . 
'No , Copperfield , says he , gravely , 'that's not a dog . 
My instructions are , Copperfield , to put this placard on your back . 
I am sorry to make such a beginning with you , but I must do it . 
What I suffered from that placard , nobody can imagine . 
Whether it was possible for people to see me or not , I always fancied that somebody was reading it . 
It was no relief to turn round and find nobody for wherever my back was , there I imagined somebody always to be . 
That cruel man with the wooden leg aggravated my sufferings . 
There was an old door in this playground , on which the boys had a custom of carving their names . 
It was completely covered with such inscriptions . 
There was another boy , one Tommy Traddles , who I dreaded would make game of it , and pretend to be dreadfully frightened of me . 
There was a third , George Demple , who I fancied would sing it . 
He bites ! It was the same with the places at the desks and forms . 
It was the same with the groves of deserted bedsteads I peeped at , on my way to , and when I was in , my own bed . 
Before , and after them , I walked about supervised , as I have mentioned , by the man with the wooden leg . 
Then , we had more tasks until tea , which Mr. Mell drank out of a blue teacup , and I out of a tin pot . 
I picture my small self in the dimly lighted rooms , sitting with my head upon my hand , listening to the doleful performance of Mr. Mell , and conning tomorrow's lessons . 
I picture myself going up to bed , among the unused rooms , and sitting on my bed side crying for a comfortable word from Peggotty . 
I cannot think I was a very dangerous character in any of these aspects , but in all of them I carried the same warning on my back . 
Mr. Mell never said much to me , but he was never harsh to me . 
I suppose we were company to each other , without talking . 
I forgot to mention that he would talk to himself sometimes , and grin , and clench his fist , and grind his teeth , and pull his hair in an unaccountable manner . 
But he had these peculiarities and at first they frightened me , though I soon got used to them . 
One day I was informed by Mr. Mell that Mr. Creakle would be home that evening . 
In the evening , after tea , I heard that he was come . 
Before bedtime , I was fetched by the man with the wooden leg to appear before him . 
, or anything but Mr. Creakle , a stout gentleman with a bunch of watch chain and seals , in an arm chair , with a tumbler and bottle beside him . 
'So ! said Mr. Creakle . 
'This is the young gentleman whose teeth are to be filed ! Turn him round . 
Mr. Creakle's face was fiery , and his eyes were small , and deep in his head he had thick veins in his forehead , a little nose , and a large chin . 
But the circumstance about him which impressed me most , was , that he had no voice , but spoke in a whisper . 
'Now , said Mr. Creakle . 
'What's the report of this boy ? 'There's nothing against him yet , returned the man with the wooden leg . 
'There has been no opportunity . 
I thought Mr. Creakle was disappointed . 
'Come here , sir ! said Mr. Creakle , beckoning to me . 
'Come here ! said the man with the wooden leg , repeating the gesture . 
He knows me , and I know him . 
Do YOU know me ? Hey ? said Mr. Creakle , pinching my ear with ferocious playfulness . 
'Not yet , sir , I said , flinching with the pain . 
'Not yet ? Hey ? repeated Mr. Creakle . 
Hey ? 'You will soon . 
Hey ? repeated the man with the wooden leg . 
I afterwards found that he generally acted , with his strong voice , as Mr. Creakle's interpreter to the boys . 
I was very much frightened , and said , I hoped so , if he pleased . 
I felt , all this while , as if my ear were blazing he pinched it so hard . 
'I'll tell you what I am , whispered Mr. Creakle , letting it go at last , with a screw at parting that brought the water into my eyes . 
'A Tartar , said the man with the wooden leg . 
'When I say I'll do a thing , I do it , said Mr. Creakle 'and when I say I will have a thing done , I will have it done . 
Will have a thing done , I will have it done , repeated the man with the wooden leg . 
'I am a determined character , said Mr. Creakle . 
My flesh and blood' he looked at Mrs. Creakle as he said this 'when it rises against me , is not my flesh and blood . 
Has that fellow' to the man with the wooden leg 'been here again ? 'No , was the answer . 
'No , said Mr. Creakle . 
I say let him keep away , said Mr. Creakle , striking his hand upon the table , and looking at Mrs. Creakle , 'for he knows me . 
Now you have begun to know me too , my young friend , and you may go . 
I was very glad to be ordered away , for Mrs. and Miss Creakle were both wiping their eyes , and I felt as uncomfortable for them as I did for myself . 
Next morning Mr. Sharp came back . 
Mr. Sharp was the first master , and superior to Mr. Mell . 
Mr. Mell took his meals with the boys , but Mr. Sharp dined and supped at Mr. Creakle's table . 
, and that Mr. Sharp went out every Saturday afternoon to get it curled . 
It was no other than Tommy Traddles who gave me this piece of intelligence . 
He was the first boy who returned . 
It was a happy circumstance for me that Traddles came back first . 
This was naturally confusing , among so many strangers , and cost me some tears , but on the whole it was much better than I had anticipated . 
I was not considered as being formally received into the school , however , until J. Steerforth arrived . 
'What money have you got , Copperfield ? he said , walking aside with me when he had disposed of my affair in these terms . 
I told him seven shillings . 
'You had better give it to me to take care of , he said . 
'At least , you can if you like . 
You needn't if you don't like . 
I hastened to comply with his friendly suggestion , and opening Peggotty's purse , turned it upside down into his hand . 
'Do you want to spend anything now ? he asked me . 
'No thank you , I replied . 
'You can , if you like , you know , said Steerforth . 
'No , thank you , sir , I repeated . 
'Perhaps you'd like to spend a couple of shillings or so , in a bottle of currant wine by and by , up in the bedroom ? said Steerforth . 
'You belong to my bedroom , I find . 
It certainly had not occurred to me before , but I said , Yes , I should like that . 
'Very good , said Steerforth . 
'You'll be glad to spend another shilling or so , in almond cakes , I dare say ? I said , Yes , I should like that , too . 
'And another shilling or so in biscuits , and another in fruit , eh ? said Steerforth . 
'I say , young Copperfield , you're going it ! I smiled because he smiled , but I was a little troubled in my mind , too . 
'We must make it stretch as far as we can that's all . 
I'll do the best in my power for you . 
I can go out when I like , and I'll smuggle the prog in . 
With these words he put the money in his pocket , and kindly told me not to make myself uneasy he would take care it should be all right . 
I couldn't think of doing the honours of the feast , at my time of life , while he was by my hand shook at the very thought of it . 
As to me , I sat on his left hand , and the rest were grouped about us , on the nearest beds and on the floor . 
when Traddles pretends to see a ghost in the corner . 
I heard all kinds of things about the school and all belonging to it . 
With a good deal more of that sort , which I wondered how they knew . 
I heard that Mr. Creakle had turned him out of doors , in consequence and that Mrs. and Miss Creakle had been in a sad way , ever since . 
Steerforth himself confirmed this when it was stated , and said that he should like to begin to see him do it . 
We sat in the dark for some time , breathless . 
I heard that the table beer was a robbery of parents , and the pudding an imposition . 
I thought of my breakfast then , and what had sounded like 'My Charley ! but I was , I am glad to remember , as mute as a mouse about it . 
The hearing of all this , and a good deal more , outlasted the banquet some time . 
'Good night , young Copperfield , said Steerforth . 
'I'll take care of you . 
'You're very kind , I gratefully returned . 
'I am very much obliged to you . 
'You haven't got a sister , have you ? said Steerforth , yawning . 
'That's a pity , said Steerforth . 
'If you had had one , I should think she would have been a pretty , timid , little , bright eyed sort of girl . 
I should have liked to know her . 
Good night , young Copperfield . 
'Good night , sir , I replied . 
He was a person of great power in my eyes that was , of course , the reason of my mind running on him . 
No veiled future dimly glanced upon him in the moonbeams . 
There was no shadowy picture of his footsteps , in the garden that I dreamed of walking in all night . 
CHAPTER MY 'FIRST HALF' AT SALEM HOUSE School began in earnest next day . 
Tungay stood at Mr. Creakle's elbow . 
He had no occasion , I thought , to cry out 'Silence ! so ferociously , for the boys were all struck speechless and motionless . 
Mr. Creakle was seen to speak , and Tungay was heard , to this effect . 
'Now , boys , this is a new half . 
Take care what you're about , in this new half . 
Come fresh up to the lessons , I advise you , for I come fresh up to the punishment . 
It will be of no use your rubbing yourselves you won't rub the marks out that I shall give you . 
, and was very soon in tears also . 
Not that I mean to say these were special marks of distinction , which only I received . 
were visited with similar instances of notice , as Mr. Creakle made the round of the schoolroom . 
I should think there never can have been a man who enjoyed his profession more than Mr. Creakle did . 
He had a delight in cutting at the boys , which was like the satisfaction of a craving appetite . 
I was chubby myself , and ought to know . 
I have plenty to do . 
A lane of small boys beyond me , with the same interest in his eye , watch it too . 
I think he knows it , though he pretends he don't . 
He makes dreadful mouths as he rules the ciphering book and now he throws his eye sideways down our lane , and we all droop over our books and tremble . 
A moment afterwards we are again eyeing him . 
An unhappy culprit , found guilty of imperfect exercise , approaches at his command . 
The culprit falters excuses , and professes a determination to do better tomorrow . 
Here I sit at the desk again , on a drowsy summer afternoon . 
A buzz and hum go up around me , as if the boys were so many bluebottles . 
, and my head is as heavy as so much lead . 
I would give the world to go to sleep . 
Here I am in the playground , with my eye still fascinated by him , though I can't see him . 
The window at a little distance from which I know he is having his dinner , stands for him , and I eye that instead . 
If he shows his face near it , mine assumes an imploring and submissive expression . 
stops in the middle of a shout or yell , and becomes contemplative . 
breaks that window accidentally , with a ball . 
I shudder at this moment with the tremendous sensation of seeing it done , and feeling that the ball has bounded on to Mr. Creakle's sacred head . 
But I believe he only did it because they were easy , and didn't want any features . 
He was very honourable , Traddles was , and held it as a solemn duty in the boys to stand by one another . 
He suffered for this on several occasions and particularly once , when Steerforth laughed in church , and the Beadle thought it was Traddles , and took him out . 
I see him now , going away in custody , despised by the congregation . 
But he had his reward . 
Steerforth said there was nothing of the sneak in Traddles , and we all felt that to be the highest praise . 
to have won such a recompense . 
To see Steerforth walk to church before us , arm in arm with Miss Creakle , was one of the great sights of my life . 
but I thought her a young lady of extraordinary attractions , and in point of gentility not to be surpassed . 
When Steerforth , in white trousers , carried her parasol for her , I felt proud to know him and believed that she could not choose but adore him with all her heart . 
Mr. Sharp and Mr. Mell were both notable personages in my eyes but Steerforth was to them what the sun was to two stars . 
Steerforth continued his protection of me , and proved a very useful friend since nobody dared to annoy one whom he honoured with his countenance . 
There was one advantage , and only one that I know of , in Mr. Creakle's severity . 
An accidental circumstance cemented the intimacy between Steerforth and me , in a manner that inspired me with great pride and satisfaction , though it sometimes led to inconvenience . 
'And do you recollect them ? Steerforth said . 
'Oh yes , I replied I had a good memory , and I believed I recollected them very well . 
'Then I tell you what , young Copperfield , said Steerforth , 'you shall tell 'em to me . 
I can't get to sleep very early at night , and I generally wake rather early in the morning . 
We'll go over 'em one after another . 
We'll make some regular Arabian Nights of it . 
I felt extremely flattered by this arrangement , and we commenced carrying it into execution that very evening . 
Let me do myself justice , however . 
I was moved by no interested or selfish motive , nor was I moved by fear of him . 
I admired and loved him , and his approval was return enough . 
It was so precious to me that I look back on these trifles , now , with an aching heart . 
This treasure , as in duty bound , I laid at the feet of Steerforth , and begged him to dispense . 
'Now , I'll tell you what , young Copperfield , said he 'the wine shall be kept to wet your whistle when you are story telling . 
I blushed at the idea , and begged him , in my modesty , not to think of it . 
But he said he had observed I was sometimes hoarse a little roopy was his exact expression and it should be , every drop , devoted to the purpose he had mentioned . 
We seem , to me , to have been months over Peregrine , and months more over the other stories . 
The institution never flagged for want of a story , I am certain and the wine lasted out almost as well as the matter . 
This rather put me out , very often . 
In a school carried on by sheer cruelty , whether it is presided over by a dunce or not , there is not likely to be much learnt . 
In this I was much assisted by Mr. Mell , who had a liking for me that I am grateful to remember . 
It always gave me pain to observe that Steerforth treated him with systematic disparagement , and seldom lost an occasion of wounding his feelings , or inducing others to do so . 
But the visit had its unforeseen consequences and of a serious sort , too , in their way . 
It was , properly , a half holiday being Saturday . 
'Silence ! cried Mr. Mell , suddenly rising up , and striking his desk with the book . 
'What does this mean ! It's impossible to bear it . 
Steerforth's place was at the bottom of the school , at the opposite end of the long room . 
'Silence , Mr. Steerforth ! said Mr. Mell . 
'Silence yourself , said Steerforth , turning red . 
'Whom are you talking to ? 'Sit down , said Mr. Mell . 
'Sit down yourself , said Steerforth , 'and mind your business . 
, upon my head 'or that I have not observed you , within a few minutes , urging your juniors on to every sort of outrage against me , you are mistaken . 
'I don't give myself the trouble of thinking at all about you , said Steerforth , coolly 'so I'm not mistaken , as it happens . 
Here somebody cried out , 'Shame , J. Steerforth ! Too bad ! It was Traddles whom Mr. Mell instantly discomfited by bidding him hold his tongue . 
You can sit down or stand up as you please , sir . 
'Young Copperfield , said Steerforth , coming forward up the room , 'stop a bit . 
I tell you what , Mr. Mell , once for all . 
When you take the liberty of calling me mean or base , or anything of that sort , you are an impudent beggar . 
You are always a beggar , you know but when you do that , you are an impudent beggar . 
I am not clear whether he was going to strike Mr. Mell , or Mr. Mell was going to strike him , or there was any such intention on either side . 
Mr. Mell , with his elbows on his desk and his face in his hands , sat , for some moments , quite still . 
No. I have remembered myself , I no , Mr. Creakle , I have not forgotten myself , I I have remembered myself , sir . 
I I could wish you had remembered me a little sooner , Mr. Creakle . 
It it would have been more kind , sir , more just , sir . 
It would have saved me something , sir . 
Mr. Creakle , looking hard at Mr. Mell , put his hand on Tungay's shoulder , and got his feet upon the form close by , and sat upon the desk . 
I could not help thinking even in that interval , I remember , what a noble fellow he was in appearance , and how homely and plain Mr. Mell looked opposed to him . 
'What did he mean by talking about favourites , then ? said Steerforth at length . 
'Favourites ? repeated Mr. Creakle , with the veins in his forehead swelling quickly . 
'Who talked about favourites ? 'He did , said Steerforth . 
'And pray , what did you mean by that , sir ? demanded Mr. Creakle , turning angrily on his assistant . 
'I meant , Mr. Creakle , he returned in a low voice , 'as I said that no pupil had a right to avail himself of his position of favouritism to degrade me . 
'To degrade YOU ? said Mr. Creakle . 
'It was not judicious , sir , I am willing to admit , said Mr. Mell . 
'I should not have done so , if I had been cool . 
'Then he said I was mean , and then he said I was base , and then I called him a beggar . 
If I had been cool , perhaps I shouldn't have called him a beggar . 
But I did , and I am ready to take the consequences of it . 
Without considering , perhaps , whether there were any consequences to be taken , I felt quite in a glow at this gallant speech . 
It made an impression on the boys too , for there was a low stir among them , though no one spoke a word . 
Steerforth gave a short laugh . 
'That's not an answer , sir , said Mr. Creakle , 'to my remark . 
I expect more than that from you , Steerforth . 
If Mr. Mell looked homely , in my eyes , before the handsome boy , it would be quite impossible to say how homely Mr. Creakle looked . 
'Let him deny it , said Steerforth . 
'Deny that he is a beggar , Steerforth ? cried Mr. Creakle . 
'Why , where does he go a begging ? 'If he is not a beggar himself , his near relation's one , said Steerforth . 
He glanced at me , and Mr. Mell's hand gently patted me upon the shoulder . 
I looked up with a flush upon my face and remorse in my heart , but Mr. Mell's eyes were fixed on Steerforth . 
He continued to pat me kindly on the shoulder , but he looked at him . 
Mr. Creakle turned to his assistant , with a severe frown and laboured politeness 'Now , you hear what this gentleman says , Mr. Mell . 
Have the goodness , if you please , to set him right before the assembled school . 
'He is right , sir , without correction , returned Mr. Mell , in the midst of a dead silence 'what he has said is true . 
'Why , you know not , said Mr. Creakle . 
'Don't you , man ? 'I apprehend you never supposed my worldly circumstances to be very good , replied the assistant . 
'You know what my position is , and always has been , here . 
Mr. Mell , we'll part , if you please . 
'There is no time , answered Mr. Mell , rising , 'like the present . 
'Sir , to you ! said Mr. Creakle . 
'I take my leave of you , Mr. Creakle , and all of you , said Mr. Mell , glancing round the room , and again patting me gently on the shoulders . 
'James Steerforth , the best wish I can leave you is that you may come to be ashamed of what you have done today . 
At present I would prefer to see you anything rather than a friend , to me , or to anyone in whom I feel an interest . 
We were left to ourselves now , and looked very blank , I recollect , on one another . 
He was very angry with Traddles , and said he was glad he had caught it . 
Poor Traddles , who had passed the stage of lying with his head upon the desk , and was relieving himself as usual with a burst of skeletons , said he didn't care . 
Mr. Mell was ill used . 
'Who has ill used him , you girl ? said Steerforth . 
'Why , you have , returned Traddles . 
'What have I done ? said Steerforth . 
'What have you done ? retorted Traddles . 
'Hurt his feelings , and lost him his situation . 
'His feelings ? repeated Steerforth disdainfully . 
'His feelings will soon get the better of it , I'll be bound . 
His feelings are not like yours , Miss Traddles . 
, took some of his classes until a new master was found . 
The new master came from a grammar school and before he entered on his duties , dined in the parlour one day , to be introduced to Steerforth . 
Steerforth approved of him highly , and told us he was a Brick . 
There was only one other event in this half year , out of the daily school life , that made an impression upon me which still survives . 
It survives for many reasons . 
I could not help laughing but it was much more in the pleasure of seeing them , than at the appearance they made . 
We shook hands in a very cordial way and I laughed and laughed , until I pulled out my pocket handkerchief and wiped my eyes . 
showed great concern when he saw me do this , and nudged Ham to say something . 
'Cheer up , Mas'r Davy bor' ! said Ham , in his simpering way . 
'Why , how you have growed ! 'Am I grown ? I said , drying my eyes . 
I was not crying at anything in particular that I know of but somehow it made me cry , to see old friends . 
'Growed , Mas'r Davy bor' ? Ain't he growed ! said Ham . 
'Ain't he growed ! said Mr. Peggotty . 
They made me laugh again by laughing at each other , and then we all three laughed until I was in danger of crying again . 
'Do you know how mama is , Mr. Peggotty ? I said . 
'And how my dear , dear , old Peggotty is ? 'Oncommon , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'And little Em'ly , and Mrs. Gummidge ? 'On common , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'You see , said Mr. Peggotty , 'knowing as you was partial to a little relish with your wittles when you was along with us , we took the liberty . 
The old Mawther biled 'em , she did . 
Yes , said Mr. Peggotty , slowly , who I thought appeared to stick to the subject on account of having no other subject ready , 'Mrs . 
Gummidge , I do assure you , she biled 'em . 
I was obliged to consider a little before I understood what Mr. Peggotty meant by this figure , expressive of a complete circle of intelligence . 
He meant Ham , who beamed with delight and assent over the bag of shrimps . 
'Her pretty face ! said Mr. Peggotty , with his own shining like a light . 
'Her learning ! said Ham . 
'Her writing ! said Mr. Peggotty . 
'Why it's as black as jet ! And so large it is , you might see it anywheres . 
It was perfectly delightful to behold with what enthusiasm Mr. Peggotty became inspired when he thought of his little favourite . 
He stands before me again , his bluff hairy face irradiating with a joyful love and pride , for which I can find no description . 
His honest eyes fire up , and sparkle , as if their depths were stirred by something bright . 
His broad chest heaves with pleasure . 
His strong loose hands clench themselves , in his earnestness and he emphasizes what he says with a right arm that shows , in my pigmy view , like a sledge hammer . 
Ham was quite as earnest as he . 
and crossed by us on his way out . 
But I said , modestly Good Heaven , how it all comes back to me this long time afterwards ! 'Don't go , Steerforth , if you please . 
These are two Yarmouth boatmen very kind , good people who are relations of my nurse , and have come from Gravesend to see me . 
'Aye , aye ? said Steerforth , returning . 
'I am glad to see them . 
, to have carried a spell with him to which it was a natural weakness to yield , and which not many persons could withstand . 
I could not but see how pleased they were with him , and how they seemed to open their hearts to him in a moment . 
'Nonsense ! said Steerforth , laughing . 
'You mustn't tell them anything of the sort . 
You never saw such a good house , Steerforth . 
It's made out of a boat ! 'Made out of a boat , is it ? said Steerforth . 
'It's the right sort of a house for such a thorough built boatman . 
'So 'tis , sir , so 'tis , sir , said Ham , grinning . 
'You're right , young gen'l'm'n ! Mas'r Davy bor' , gen'l'm'n's right . 
'The best of men can do no more , Mr. Peggotty , said Steerforth . 
He had got his name already . 
'I'll pound it , it's wot you do yourself , sir , said Mr. Peggotty , shaking his head , 'and wot you do well right well ! I thankee , sir . 
I'm obleeged to you , sir , for your welcoming manner of me . 
I'm rough , sir , but I'm ready least ways , I hope I'm ready , you unnerstand . 
My house ain't much for to see , sir , but it's hearty at your service if ever you should come along with Mas'r Davy to see it . 
I was almost tempted that evening to tell Steerforth about pretty little Em'ly , but I was too timid of mentioning her name , and too much afraid of his laughing at me . 
We transported the shellfish , or the 'relish' as Mr. Peggotty had modestly called it , up into our room unobserved , and made a great supper that evening . 
But Traddles couldn't get happily out of it . 
He was too unfortunate even to come through a supper like anybody else . 
said was enough to undermine a horse's constitution , received a caning and six chapters of Greek Testament for refusing to confess . 
I had many a broken sleep inside the Yarmouth mail , and many an incoherent dream of all these things . 
Mr. Barkis the carrier was to call for me in the morning at nine o'clock . 
I got up at eight , a little giddy from the shortness of my night's rest , and was ready for him before the appointed time . 
As soon as I and my box were in the cart , and the carrier seated , the lazy horse walked away with us all at his accustomed pace . 
'You look very well , Mr. Barkis , I said , thinking he would like to know it . 
'I gave your message , Mr. Barkis , I said 'I wrote to Peggotty . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Barkis . 
Mr. Barkis seemed gruff , and answered drily . 
'Wasn't it right , Mr. Barkis ? I asked , after a little hesitation . 
'Why , no , said Mr. Barkis . 
'Not the message ? 'The message was right enough , perhaps , said Mr. Barkis 'but it come to an end there . 
Not understanding what he meant , I repeated inquisitively 'Came to an end , Mr. Barkis ? 'Nothing come of it , he explained , looking at me sideways . 
'There was an answer expected , was there , Mr. Barkis ? said I , opening my eyes . 
For this was a new light to me . 
'When a man says he's willin' , said Mr. Barkis , turning his glance slowly on me again , 'it's as much as to say , that man's a waitin' for a answer . 
'Well , Mr. Barkis ? 'Well , said Mr. Barkis , carrying his eyes back to his horse's ears 'that man's been a waitin' for a answer ever since . 
'Have you told her so , Mr. Barkis ? 'No no , growled Mr. Barkis , reflecting about it . 
'I ain't got no call to go and tell her so . 
I never said six words to her myself , I ain't a goin' to tell her so . 
'Would you like me to do it , Mr. Barkis ? said I , doubtfully . 
'You might tell her , if you would , said Mr. Barkis , with another slow look at me , 'that Barkis was a waitin' for a answer . 
Says you what name is it ? 'Her name ? 'Ah ! said Mr. Barkis , with a nod of his head . 
'Chrisen name ? Or nat'ral name ? said Mr. Barkis . 
'Oh , it's not her Christian name . 
Her Christian name is Clara . 
'Is it though ? said Mr. Barkis . 
He seemed to find an immense fund of reflection in this circumstance , and sat pondering and inwardly whistling for some time . 
'Well ! he resumed at length . 
'Says you , Peggotty ! Barkis is waitin' for a answer . 
Says she , perhaps , Answer to what ? Says you , To what I told you . 
What is that ? says she . 
Barkis is willin' , says you . 
This extremely artful suggestion Mr. Barkis accompanied with a nudge of his elbow that gave me quite a stitch in my side . 
The carrier put my box down at the garden gate , and left me . 
I walked along the path towards the house , glancing at the windows , and fearing at every step to see Mr. Murdstone or Miss Murdstone lowering out of one of them . 
She was singing in a low tone . 
I think I must have lain in her arms , and heard her singing so to me when I was but a baby . 
The strain was new to me , and yet it was so old that it filled my heart brim full like a friend come back from a long absence . 
I believed , from the solitary and thoughtful way in which my mother murmured her song , that she was alone . 
And I went softly into the room . 
She was sitting by the fire , suckling an infant , whose tiny hand she held against her neck . 
Her eyes were looking down upon its face , and she sat singing to it . 
I was so far right , that she had no other companion . 
I spoke to her , and she started , and cried out . 
I wish I had died . 
I wish I had died then , with that feeling in my heart ! I should have been more fit for Heaven than I ever have been since . 
'He is your brother , said my mother , fondling me . 
'Davy , my pretty boy ! My poor child ! Then she kissed me more and more , and clasped me round the neck . 
This she was doing when Peggotty came running in , and bounced down on the ground beside us , and went mad about us both for a quarter of an hour . 
It seemed that I had not been expected so soon , the carrier being much before his usual time . 
It seemed , too , that Mr. and Miss Murdstone had gone out upon a visit in the neighbourhood , and would not return before night . 
I had never hoped for this . 
I had never thought it possible that we three could be together undisturbed , once more and I felt , for the time , as if the old days were come back . 
We dined together by the fireside . 
Peggotty was in attendance to wait upon us , but my mother wouldn't let her do it , and made her dine with us . 
I had my own old mug with David on it , and my own old little knife and fork that wouldn't cut . 
'Peggotty , said my mother . 
'What are you doing , you stupid creature ? said my mother , laughing . 
'Oh , drat the man ! cried Peggotty . 
'He wants to marry me . 
'It would be a very good match for you wouldn't it ? said my mother . 
'Oh ! I don't know , said Peggotty . 
I wouldn't have him if he was made of gold . 
Nor I wouldn't have anybody . 
'Then , why don't you tell him so , you ridiculous thing ? said my mother . 
'Tell him so , retorted Peggotty , looking out of her apron . 
'He has never said a word to me about it . 
If he was to make so bold as say a word to me , I should slap his face . 
I remarked that my mother , though she smiled when Peggotty looked at her , became more serious and thoughtful . 
I had seen at first that she was changed . 
Her face was very pretty still , but it looked careworn , and too delicate and her hand was so thin and white that it seemed to me to be almost transparent . 
But the change to which I now refer was superadded to this it was in her manner , which became anxious and fluttered . 
'Lord bless you , no ! 'Not just yet ? said my mother , tenderly . 
My mother took her hand , and said 'Don't leave me , Peggotty . 
It will not be for long , perhaps . 
What should I ever do without you ! 'Me leave you , my precious ! cried Peggotty . 
'Not for all the world and his wife . 
Why , what's put that in your silly little head ? For Peggotty had been used of old to talk to my mother sometimes like a child . 
But my mother made no answer , except to thank her , and Peggotty went running on in her own fashion . 
'Me leave you ? I think I see myself . 
It isn't that there ain't some Cats that would be well enough pleased if she did , but they sha'n't be pleased . 
I'll stay with you till I am a cross cranky old woman . 
'And , Peggotty , says I , 'I shall be glad to see you , and I'll make you as welcome as a queen . 
'Bless your dear heart ! cried Peggotty . 
'I know you will ! And she kissed me beforehand , in grateful acknowledgement of my hospitality . 
After that , she covered her head up with her apron again and had another laugh about Mr. Barkis . 
After that , she took the baby out of its little cradle , and nursed it . 
We sat round the fire , and talked delightfully . 
I told them what a hard master Mr. Creakle was , and they pitied me very much . 
I told them what a fine fellow Steerforth was , and what a patron of mine , and Peggotty said she would walk a score of miles to see him . 
I took the little baby in my arms when it was awake , and nursed it lovingly . 
I cannot conceive whose stockings they can have been that Peggotty was always darning , or where such an unfailing supply of stockings in want of darning can have come from . 
From my earliest infancy she seems to have been always employed in that class of needlework , and never by any chance in any other . 
'What can have put such a person in your head ? inquired my mother . 
They come and they go , and they don't come and they don't go , just as they like . 
I wonder what's become of her ? 'How absurd you are , Peggotty ! returned my mother . 
'One would suppose you wanted a second visit from her . 
'Lord forbid ! cried Peggotty . 
'Well then , don't talk about such uncomfortable things , there's a good soul , said my mother . 
'Miss Betsey is shut up in her cottage by the sea , no doubt , and will remain there . 
At all events , she is not likely ever to trouble us again . 
'No , that ain't likely at all . 
'I suppose she wouldn't be inclined to forgive him now , hinted Peggotty . 
'Why should she be inclined to forgive him now ? said my mother , rather sharply . 
'Now that he's got a brother , I mean , said Peggotty . 
MY mother immediately began to cry , and wondered how Peggotty dared to say such a thing . 
'As if this poor little innocent in its cradle had ever done any harm to you or anybody else , you jealous thing ! said she . 
'You had much better go and marry Mr. Barkis , the carrier . 
Why don't you ? 'I should make Miss Murdstone happy , if I was to , said Peggotty . 
'What a bad disposition you have , Peggotty ! returned my mother . 
'You are as jealous of Miss Murdstone as it is possible for a ridiculous creature to be . 
You want to keep the keys yourself , and give out all the things , I suppose ? I shouldn't be surprised if you did . 
When you know that she only does it out of kindness and the best intentions ! You know she does , Peggotty you know it well . 
Peggotty muttered something to the effect of 'Bother the best intentions ! and something else to the effect that there was a little too much of the best intentions going on . 
'I know what you mean , you cross thing , said my mother . 
'I understand you , Peggotty , perfectly . 
You know I do , and I wonder you don't colour up like fire . 
But one point at a time . 
Miss Murdstone is the point now , Peggotty , and you sha'n't escape from it . 
Haven't you heard her say , over and over again , that she thinks I am too thoughtless and too a a 'Pretty , suggested Peggotty . 
'No , I should hope not , indeed ! returned my mother . 
'You do , Peggotty , returned my mother . 
'You never do anything else , except your work . 
And when you talk of Mr. Murdstone's good intentions 'I never talked of 'em , said Peggotty . 
'No , Peggotty , returned my mother , 'but you insinuated . 
That's what I told you just now . 
That's the worst of you . 
I said , at the moment , that I understood you , and you see I did . 
, you must be as well convinced as I am how good they are , and how they actuate him in everything . 
He naturally loves a certain person , on my account and acts solely for a certain person's good . 
Peggotty sat with her chin on the foot of the stocking , looking silently at the fire . 
'There , Peggotty , said my mother , changing her tone , 'don't let us fall out with one another , for I couldn't bear it . 
You are my true friend , I know , if I have any in the world . 
Peggotty was not slow to respond , and ratify the treaty of friendship by giving me one of her best hugs . 
The design was efficacious for I remember that my mother seemed more at ease during the rest of the evening , and that Peggotty observed her less . 
We were very happy and that evening , as the last of its race , and destined evermore to close that volume of my life , will never pass out of my memory . 
It was almost ten o'clock before we heard the sound of wheels . 
I kissed her , and went upstairs with my candle directly , before they came in . 
I felt uncomfortable about going down to breakfast in the morning , as I had never set eyes on Mr. Murdstone since the day when I committed my memorable offence . 
He was standing before the fire with his back to it , while Miss Murdstone made the tea . 
He looked at me steadily as I entered , but made no sign of recognition whatever . 
I went up to him , after a moment of confusion , and said 'I beg your pardon , sir . 
I am very sorry for what I did , and I hope you will forgive me . 
'I am glad to hear you are sorry , David , he replied . 
The hand he gave me was the hand I had bitten . 
'How do you do , ma'am ? I said to Miss Murdstone . 
'Ah , dear me ! sighed Miss Murdstone , giving me the tea caddy scoop instead of her fingers . 
'How long are the holidays ? 'A month , ma'am . 
'Counting from when ? 'From today , ma'am . 
'Oh ! said Miss Murdstone . 
'Then here's one day off . 
She kept a calendar of the holidays in this way , and every morning checked a day off in exactly the same manner . 
She did it gloomily until she came to ten , but when she got into two figures she became more hopeful , and , as the time advanced , even jocular . 
It was on this very first day that I had the misfortune to throw her , though she was not subject to such weakness in general , into a state of violent consternation . 
being on my mother's lap , I took it very carefully in my arms . 
Suddenly Miss Murdstone gave such a scream that I all but dropped it . 
'My dear Jane ! cried my mother . 
'Good heavens , Clara , do you see ? exclaimed Miss Murdstone . 
'See what , my dear Jane ? said my mother 'where ? 'He's got it ! cried Miss Murdstone . 
'The boy has got the baby ! She was limp with horror but stiffened herself to make a dart at me , and take it out of my arms . 
Then , she turned faint and was so very ill that they were obliged to give her cherry brandy . 
My mother , who had been looking at its eyes as it lay upon her lap , said 'Davy ! come here ! and looked at mine . 
I saw Miss Murdstone lay her beads down . 
'I declare , said my mother , gently , 'they are exactly alike . 
I suppose they are mine . 
I think they are the colour of mine . 
But they are wonderfully alike . 
'What are you talking about , Clara ? said Miss Murdstone . 
'My dear Jane , faltered my mother , a little abashed by the harsh tone of this inquiry , 'I find that the baby's eyes and Davy's are exactly alike . 
'Clara ! said Miss Murdstone , rising angrily , 'you are a positive fool sometimes . 
'My dear Jane , remonstrated my mother . 
'A positive fool , said Miss Murdstone . 
'Who else could compare my brother's baby with your boy ? They are not at all alike . 
They are utterly dissimilar in all respects . 
I hope they will ever remain so . 
I will not sit here , and hear such comparisons made . 
With that she stalked out , and made the door bang after her . 
In short , I was not a favourite with Miss Murdstone . 
I felt that I made them as uncomfortable as they made me . 
If Mr. Murdstone were in his best humour , I checked him . 
If Miss Murdstone were in her worst , I intensified it . 
In the evening , sometimes , I went and sat with Peggotty in the kitchen . 
There I was comfortable , and not afraid of being myself . 
But neither of these resources was approved of in the parlour . 
The tormenting humour which was dominant there stopped them both . 
I was still held to be necessary to my poor mother's training , and , as one of her trials , could not be suffered to absent myself . 
'David , said Mr. Murdstone , one day after dinner when I was going to leave the room as usual 'I am sorry to observe that you are of a sullen disposition . 
'As sulky as a bear ! said Miss Murdstone . 
I stood still , and hung my head . 
'Now , David , said Mr. Murdstone , 'a sullen obdurate disposition is , of all tempers , the worst . 
'And the boy's is , of all such dispositions that ever I have seen , remarked his sister , 'the most confirmed and stubborn . 
I don't profess to be profound but I do lay claim to common sense . 
'No doubt , my dear Jane , returned my mother , 'your understanding is very vigorous 'Oh dear , no ! Pray don't say that , Clara , interposed Miss Murdstone , angrily . 
'But I am sure it is , resumed my mother 'and everybody knows it is . 
'We'll say I don't understand the boy , Clara , returned Miss Murdstone , arranging the little fetters on her wrists . 
'We'll agree , if you please , that I don't understand him at all . 
He is much too deep for me . 
But perhaps my brother's penetration may enable him to have some insight into his character . 
And I believe my brother was speaking on the subject when we not very decently interrupted him . 
'I think , Clara , said Mr. Murdstone , in a low grave voice , 'that there may be better and more dispassionate judges of such a question than you . 
'Edward , replied my mother , timidly , 'you are a far better judge of all questions than I pretend to be . 
Both you and Jane are . 
I only said 'You only said something weak and inconsiderate , he replied . 
'Try not to do it again , my dear Clara , and keep a watch upon yourself . 
MY mother's lips moved , as if she answered 'Yes , my dear Edward , but she said nothing aloud . 
'I was sorry , David , I remarked , said Mr. Murdstone , turning his head and his eyes stiffly towards me , 'to observe that you are of a sullen disposition . 
This is not a character that I can suffer to develop itself beneath my eyes without an effort at improvement . 
You must endeavour , sir , to change it . 
We must endeavour to change it for you . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , I faltered . 
'I have never meant to be sullen since I came back . 
'Don't take refuge in a lie , sir ! he returned so fiercely , that I saw my mother involuntarily put out her trembling hand as if to interpose between us . 
'You have withdrawn yourself in your sullenness to your own room . 
You have kept your own room when you ought to have been here . 
You know now , once for all , that I require you to be here , and not there . 
Further , that I require you to bring obedience here . 
You know me , David . 
I will have it done . 
Miss Murdstone gave a hoarse chuckle . 
'I will have a respectful , prompt , and ready bearing towards myself , he continued , 'and towards Jane Murdstone , and towards your mother . 
I will not have this room shunned as if it were infected , at the pleasure of a child . 
He ordered me like a dog , and I obeyed like a dog . 
'One thing more , he said . 
'I observe that you have an attachment to low and common company . 
You are not to associate with servants . 
The kitchen will not improve you , in the many respects in which you need improvement . 
'A most unaccountable delusion it is ! cried Miss Murdstone . 
'I only say , he resumed , addressing me , 'that I disapprove of your preferring such company as Mistress Peggotty , and that it is to be abandoned . 
Now , David , you understand me , and you know what will be the consequence if you fail to obey me to the letter . 
I knew well better perhaps than he thought , as far as my poor mother was concerned and I obeyed him to the letter . 
I retreated to my own room no more I took refuge with Peggotty no more but sat wearily in the parlour day after day , looking forward to night , and bedtime . 
I was not sorry to go . 
I had lapsed into a stupid state but I was recovering a little and looking forward to Steerforth , albeit Mr. Creakle loomed behind him . 
Again Mr. Barkis appeared at the gate , and again Miss Murdstone in her warning voice , said 'Clara ! when my mother bent over me , to bid me farewell . 
And it is not so much the embrace she gave me , that lives in my mind , though it was as fervent as could be , as what followed the embrace . 
I was in the carrier's cart when I heard her calling to me . 
I looked out , and she stood at the garden gate alone , holding her baby up in her arms for me to see . 
So I saw her afterwards , in my sleep at school a silent presence near my bed looking at me with the same intent face holding up her baby in her arms . 
CHAPTER I HAVE A MEMORABLE BIRTHDAY I PASS over all that happened at school , until the anniversary of my birthday came round in March . 
Except that Steerforth was more to be admired than ever , I remember nothing . 
The great remembrance by which that time is marked in my mind , seems to have swallowed up all lesser recollections , and to exist alone . 
It is even difficult for me to believe that there was a gap of full two months between my return to Salem House and the arrival of that birthday . 
It was after breakfast , and we had been summoned in from the playground , when Mr. Sharp entered and said 'David Copperfield is to go into the parlour . 
I expected a hamper from Peggotty , and brightened at the order . 
Some of the boys about me put in their claim not to be forgotten in the distribution of the good things , as I got out of my seat with great alacrity . 
'Don't hurry , David , said Mr. Sharp . 
'There's time enough , my boy , don't hurry . 
I might have been surprised by the feeling tone in which he spoke , if I had given it a thought but I gave it none until afterwards . 
'David Copperfield , said Mrs. Creakle , leading me to a sofa , and sitting down beside me . 
'I want to speak to you very particularly . 
I have something to tell you , my child . 
Mr. Creakle , at whom of course I looked , shook his head without looking at me , and stopped up a sigh with a very large piece of buttered toast . 
'You are too young to know how the world changes every day , said Mrs. Creakle , 'and how the people in it pass away . 
I looked at her earnestly . 
'Because , said she , 'I grieve to tell you that I hear this morning your mama is very ill . 
A mist rose between Mrs. Creakle and me , and her figure seemed to move in it for an instant . 
Then I felt the burning tears run down my face , and it was steady again . 
'She is very dangerously ill , she added . 
There was no need to tell me so . 
I had already broken out into a desolate cry , and felt an orphan in the wide world . 
She was very kind to me . 
She kept me there all day , and left me alone sometimes and I cried , and wore myself to sleep , and awoke and cried again . 
When I could cry no more , I began to think and then the oppression on my breast was heaviest , and my grief a dull pain that there was no ease for . 
And yet my thoughts were idle not intent on the calamity that weighed upon my heart , but idly loitering near it . 
I thought of our house shut up and hushed . 
I thought of the little baby , who , Mrs. Creakle said , had been pining away for some time , and who , they believed , would die too . 
I thought of my father's grave in the churchyard , by our house , and of my mother lying there beneath the tree I knew so well . 
I stood upon a chair when I was left alone , and looked into the glass to see how red my eyes were , and how sorrowful my face . 
I am sensible of having felt that a dignity attached to me among the rest of the boys , and that I was important in my affliction . 
If ever child were stricken with sincere grief , I was . 
But I remember that this importance was a kind of satisfaction to me , when I walked in the playground that afternoon while the boys were in school . 
When I saw them glancing at me out of the windows , as they went up to their classes , I felt distinguished , and looked more melancholy , and walked slower . 
We had no story telling that evening , and Traddles insisted on lending me his pillow . 
I left Salem House upon the morrow afternoon . 
I little thought then that I left it , never to return . 
We travelled very slowly all night , and did not get into Yarmouth before nine or ten o'clock in the morning . 
'Will you come with me , young sir , if you please , he said , opening the door , 'and I shall have the pleasure of taking you home . 
It was a close and stifling little shop full of all sorts of clothing , made and unmade , including one window full of beaver hats and bonnets . 
There was a good fire in the room , and a breathless smell of warm black crape I did not know what the smell was then , but I know now . 
The three young women , who appeared to be very industrious and comfortable , raised their heads to look at me , and then went on with their work . 
Stitch , stitch , stitch . 
'Well , said my conductor to one of the three young women . 
'How do you get on , Minnie ? 'We shall be ready by the trying on time , she replied gaily , without looking up . 
'Don't you be afraid , father . 
Mr. Omer took off his broad brimmed hat , and sat down and panted . 
He was so fat that he was obliged to pant some time before he could say 'That's right . 
'Father ! said Minnie , playfully . 
'What a porpoise you do grow ! 'Well , I don't know how it is , my dear , he replied , considering about it . 
'You are such a comfortable man , you see , said Minnie . 
'You take things so easy . 
'No use taking 'em otherwise , my dear , said Mr. Omer . 
'No , indeed , returned his daughter . 
'We are all pretty gay here , thank Heaven ! Ain't we , father ? 'I hope so , my dear , said Mr. Omer . 
'As I have got my breath now , I think I'll measure this young scholar . 
'And by that sort of thing we very often lose a little mint of money , said Mr. Omer . 
'But fashions are like human beings . 
They come in , nobody knows when , why , or how and they go out , nobody knows when , why , or how . 
Everything is like life , in my opinion , if you look at it in that point of view . 
'Have you , sir ? 'All your life , said Mr. Omer . 
'I may say before it . 
I knew your father before you . 
He was five foot nine and a half , and he lays in five and twen ty foot of ground . 
'RAT tat tat , RAT tat tat , RAT tat tat , across the yard . 
'He lays in five and twen ty foot of ground , if he lays in a fraction , said Mr. Omer , pleasantly . 
'It was either his request or her direction , I forget which . 
'Do you know how my little brother is , sir ? I inquired . 
Mr. Omer shook his head . 
'RAT tat tat , RAT tat tat , RAT tat tat . 
'He is in his mother's arms , said he . 
'Oh , poor little fellow ! Is he dead ? 'Don't mind it more than you can help , said Mr. Omer . 
My wounds broke out afresh at this intelligence . 
He had a hammer in his hand , and his mouth was full of little nails , which he was obliged to take out before he could speak . 
'Well , Joram ! said Mr. Omer . 
'How do you get on ? 'All right , said Joram . 
Minnie coloured a little , and the other two girls smiled at one another . 
'What ! you were at it by candle light last night , when I was at the club , then ? Were you ? said Mr. Omer , shutting up one eye . 
'As you said we could make a little trip of it , and go over together , if it was done , Minnie and me and you . 
'Oh ! I thought you were going to leave me out altogether , said Mr. Omer , laughing till he coughed . 
As you was so good as to say that , resumed the young man , 'why I turned to with a will , you see . 
Will you give me your opinion of it ? 'I will , said Mr. Omer , rising . 
'My dear' and he stopped and turned to me 'would you like to see your 'No , father , Minnie interposed . 
'I thought it might be agreeable , my dear , said Mr. Omer . 
I can't say how I knew it was my dear , dear mother's coffin that they went to look at . 
I had never heard one making I had never seen one that I know of . 
but it came into my mind what the noise was , while it was going on and when the young man entered , I am sure I knew what he had been doing . 
Minnie stayed behind to fold up what they had made , and pack it in two baskets . 
This she did upon her knees , humming a lively little tune the while . 
, and said her father was gone for the chaise , and he must make haste and get himself ready . 
All this I observed , sitting at the table in the corner with my head leaning on my hand , and my thoughts running on very different things . 
The chaise soon came round to the front of the shop , and the baskets being put in first , I was put in next , and those three followed . 
I remember it as a kind of half chaise cart , half pianoforte van , painted of a sombre colour , and drawn by a black horse with a long tail . 
There was plenty of room for us all . 
as that of being with them , remembering how they had been employed , and seeing them enjoy the ride . 
I was not angry with them I was more afraid of them , as if I were cast away among creatures with whom I had no community of nature . 
So , when they stopped to bait the horse , and ate and drank and enjoyed themselves , I could touch nothing that they touched , but kept my fast unbroken . 
Her grief burst out when she first saw me but she controlled it soon , and spoke in whispers , and walked softly , as if the dead could be disturbed . 
She had not been in bed , I found , for a long time . 
She sat up at night still , and watched . 
As long as her poor dear pretty was above the ground , she said , she would never desert her . 
Mr. Murdstone took no heed of me when I went into the parlour where he was , but sat by the fireside , weeping silently , and pondering in his elbow chair . 
'And your shirts , said Miss Murdstone 'have you brought 'em home ? 'Yes , ma'am . 
I have brought home all my clothes . 
This was all the consolation that her firmness administered to me . 
She was particularly proud of her turn for business and she showed it now in reducing everything to pen and ink , and being moved by nothing . 
Her brother took a book sometimes , but never read it that I saw . 
I used to sit with folded hands watching him , and counting his footsteps , hour after hour . 
He very seldom spoke to her , and never to me . 
He seemed to be the only restless thing , except the clocks , in the whole motionless house . 
If the funeral had been yesterday , I could not recollect it better . 
Mr. Chillip is in the room , and comes to speak to me . 
'And how is Master David ? he says , kindly . 
I cannot tell him very well . 
I give him my hand , which he holds in his . 
'Dear me ! says Mr. Chillip , meekly smiling , with something shining in his eye . 
'Our little friends grow up around us . 
They grow out of our knowledge , ma'am ? This is to Miss Murdstone , who makes no reply . 
'There is a great improvement here , ma'am ? says Mr. Chillip . 
Miss Murdstone merely answers with a frown and a formal bend Mr. Chillip , discomfited , goes into a corner , keeping me with him , and opens his mouth no more . 
I remark this , because I remark everything that happens , not because I care about myself , or have done since I came home . 
And now the bell begins to sound , and Mr. Omer and another come to make us ready . 
As Peggotty was wont to tell me , long ago , the followers of my father to the same grave were made ready in the same room . 
We stand around the grave . 
The day seems different to me from every other day , and the light not of the same colour of a sadder colour . 
It is over , and the earth is filled in , and we turn to come away . 
All this , I say , is yesterday's event . 
Events of later date have floated from me to the shore where all forgotten things will reappear , but this stands like a high rock in the ocean . 
I knew that Peggotty would come to me in my room . 
was suited to us both . 
'She was never well , said Peggotty , 'for a long time . 
She was uncertain in her mind , and not happy . 
When her baby was born , I thought at first she would get better , but she was more delicate , and sunk a little every day . 
'I think she got to be more timid , and more frightened like , of late and that a hard word was like a blow to her . 
But she was always the same to me . 
She never changed to her foolish Peggotty , didn't my sweet girl . 
Here Peggotty stopped , and softly beat upon my hand a little while . 
'The last time that I saw her like her own old self , was the night when you came home , my dear . 
The day you went away , she said to me , I never shall see my pretty darling again . 
Something tells me so , that tells the truth , I know . 
It's off my mind now , Peggotty , she told me , when I laid her in her bed that night . 
He will believe it more and more , poor fellow , every day for a few days to come and then it will be past . 
If this is sleep , sit by me while I sleep don't leave me . 
God bless both my children ! God protect and keep my fatherless boy ! 'I never left her afterwards , said Peggotty . 
Another silence followed this , and another gentle beating on my hand . 
Peggotty , my dear , she said then , put me nearer to you , for she was very weak . 
Lay your good arm underneath my neck , she said , and turn me to you , for your face is going far off , and I want it to be near . 
From the moment of my knowing of the death of my mother , the idea of her as she had been of late had vanished from me . 
What Peggotty had told me now , was so far from bringing me back to the later period , that it rooted the earlier image in my mind . 
It may be curious , but it is true . 
In her death she winged her way back to her calm untroubled youth , and cancelled all the rest . 
Much as Peggotty would have disliked such a service , I believe she would have retained it , for my sake , in preference to the best upon earth . 
She told me we must part , and told me why and we condoled with one another , in all sincerity . 
As to me or my future , not a word was said , or a step taken . 
Happy they would have been , I dare say , if they could have dismissed me at a month's warning too . 
I mustered courage once , to ask Miss Murdstone when I was going back to school and she answered dryly , she believed I was not going back at all . 
I was told nothing more . 
I was very anxious to know what was going to be done with me , and so was Peggotty but neither she nor I could pick up any information on the subject . 
The constraint that had been put upon me , was quite abandoned . 
I was so far from being warned off from Peggotty's society , that , provided I was not in Mr. Murdstone's , I was never sought out or inquired for . 
I do not conceive that this discovery gave me much pain then . 
I was still giddy with the shock of my mother's death , and in a kind of stunned state as to all tributary things . 
'Peggotty , I said in a thoughtful whisper , one evening , when I was warming my hands at the kitchen fire , 'Mr . 
Murdstone likes me less than he used to . 
He never liked me much , Peggotty but he would rather not even see me now , if he can help it . 
'Perhaps it's his sorrow , said Peggotty , stroking my hair . 
'I am sure , Peggotty , I am sorry too . 
If I believed it was his sorrow , I should not think of it at all . 
But it's not that oh , no , it's not that . 
'How do you know it's not that ? said Peggotty , after a silence . 
'Oh , his sorrow is another and quite a different thing . 
He is sorry at this moment , sitting by the fireside with Miss Murdstone but if I was to go in , Peggotty , he would be something besides . 
'What would he be ? said Peggotty . 
'Angry , I answered , with an involuntary imitation of his dark frown . 
'If he was only sorry , he wouldn't look at me as he does . 
I am only sorry , and it makes me feel kinder . 
Peggotty said nothing for a little while and I warmed my hands , as silent as she . 
'Davy , she said at length . 
'And what do you mean to do , Peggotty , says I , wistfully . 
'Do you mean to go and seek your fortune ? 'I expect I shall be forced to go to Yarmouth , replied Peggotty , 'and live there . 
'You might have gone farther off , I said , brightening a little , 'and been as bad as lost . 
I shall see you sometimes , my dear old Peggotty , there . 
You won't be quite at the other end of the world , will you ? 'Contrary ways , please God ! cried Peggotty , with great animation . 
'As long as you are here , my pet , I shall come over every week of my life to see you . 
Now , I have been thinking that perhaps , as they don't want you here at present , you might be let to go along with me . 
'The boy will be idle there , said Miss Murdstone , looking into a pickle jar , 'and idleness is the root of all evil . 
But , to be sure , he would be idle here or anywhere , in my opinion . 
Peggotty had an angry answer ready , I could see but she swallowed it for my sake , and remained silent . 
I suppose I had better say yes . 
I thanked her , without making any demonstration of joy , lest it should induce her to withdraw her assent . 
However , the permission was given , and was never retracted for when the month was out , Peggotty and I were ready to depart . 
Mr. Barkis came into the house for Peggotty's boxes . 
I had never known him to pass the garden gate before , but on this occasion he came into the house . 
She had been walking in the churchyard , too , very early and she got into the cart , and sat in it with her handkerchief at her eyes . 
So long as she remained in this condition , Mr. Barkis gave no sign of life whatever . 
He sat in his usual place and attitude like a great stuffed figure . 
But when she began to look about her , and to speak to me , he nodded his head and grinned several times . 
I have not the least notion at whom , or what he meant by it . 
'It's a beautiful day , Mr. Barkis ! I said , as an act of politeness . 
'It ain't bad , said Mr. Barkis , who generally qualified his speech , and rarely committed himself . 
'Peggotty is quite comfortable now , Mr. Barkis , I remarked , for his satisfaction . 
'Is she , though ? said Mr. Barkis . 
After reflecting about it , with a sagacious air , Mr. Barkis eyed her , and said 'ARE you pretty comfortable ? Peggotty laughed , and answered in the affirmative . 
'But really and truly , you know . 
Are you ? growled Mr. Barkis , sliding nearer to her on the seat , and nudging her with his elbow . 
Peggotty calling his attention to my sufferings , Mr. Barkis gave me a little more room at once , and got away by degrees . 
He manifestly chuckled over it for some time . 
By and by he made another descent upon us with the same inquiry , and the same result . 
At length , I got up whenever I saw him coming , and standing on the foot board , pretended to look at the prospect after which I did very well . 
He was so polite as to stop at a public house , expressly on our account , and entertain us with broiled mutton and beer . 
Even when Peggotty was in the act of drinking , he was seized with one of those approaches , and almost choked her . 
Mr. Peggotty and Ham waited for us at the old place . 
They each took one of Peggotty's trunks , and we were going away , when Mr. Barkis solemnly made a sign to me with his forefinger to come under an archway . 
'I say , growled Mr. Barkis , 'it was all right . 
I looked up into his face , and answered , with an attempt to be very profound 'Oh ! 'It didn't come to a end there , said Mr. Barkis , nodding confidentially . 
Again I answered , 'Oh ! 'You know who was willin' , said my friend . 
'It was Barkis , and Barkis only . 
'It's all right , said Mr. Barkis , shaking hands 'I'm a friend of your'n . 
You made it all right , first . 
As we were going along , she asked me what he had said and I told her he had said it was all right . 
'Tell me what should you say , darling ? she asked again , when this was over , and we were walking on . 
'If you were thinking of being married to Mr. Barkis , Peggotty ? 'Yes , said Peggotty . 
'I should think it would be a very good thing . 
'The sense of the dear ! cried Peggotty . 
I don't know what I might be fit for , now , as a servant to a stranger . 
'Look at me , Peggotty , I replied 'and see if I am not really glad , and don't truly wish it ! As indeed I did , with all my heart . 
All within was the same , down to the seaweed in the blue mug in my bedroom . 
But there was no little Em'ly to be seen , so I asked Mr. Peggotty where she was . 
We all on us feel the loss of her , bless ye ! Mrs. Gummidge moaned . 
'Cheer up , Mawther ! cried Mr. Peggotty . 
'I feel it more than anybody else , said Mrs. Gummidge 'I'm a lone lorn creetur' , and she used to be a'most the only thing that didn't go contrary with me . 
Mrs. Gummidge , whimpering and shaking her head , applied herself to blowing the fire . 
Now , the whole place was , or it should have been , quite as delightful a place as ever and yet it did not impress me in the same way . 
I felt rather disappointed with it . 
Perhaps it was because little Em'ly was not at home . 
I knew the way by which she would come , and presently found myself strolling along the path to meet her . 
A figure appeared in the distance before long , and I soon knew it to be Em'ly , who was a little creature still in stature , though she was grown . 
I have done such a thing since in later life , or I am mistaken . 
Little Em'ly didn't care a bit . 
She saw me well enough but instead of turning round and calling after me , ran away laughing . 
This obliged me to run after her , and she ran so fast that we were very near the cottage before I caught her . 
'Oh , it's you , is it ? said little Em'ly . 
'Why , you knew who it was , Em'ly , said I. 'And didn't YOU know who it was ? said Em'ly . 
She seemed to delight in teasing me , which was a change in her I wondered at very much . 
'A little puss , it is ! said Mr. Peggotty , patting her with his great hand . 
'So sh' is ! so sh' is ! cried Ham . 
That was my opinion , at least , when I saw her do it and I held Mr. Peggotty to be thoroughly in the right . 
But she was so affectionate and sweet natured , and had such a pleasant manner of being both sly and shy at once , that she captivated me more than ever . 
'Ah ! said Mr. Peggotty , taking up her curls , and running them over his hand like water , 'here's another orphan , you see , sir . 
And here , said Mr. Peggotty , giving Ham a backhanded knock in the chest , 'is another of 'em , though he don't look much like it . 
'If I had you for my guardian , Mr. Peggotty , said I , shaking my head , 'I don't think I should FEEL much like it . 
'Well said , Mas'r Davy bor' ! cried Ham , in an ecstasy . 
'Hoorah ! Well said ! Nor more you wouldn't ! Hor ! Hor ! Here he returned Mr. Peggotty's back hander , and little Em'ly got up and kissed Mr. Peggotty . 
'And how's your friend , sir ? said Mr. Peggotty to me . 
'Steerforth ? said I. 'That's the name ! cried Mr. Peggotty , turning to Ham . 
'I knowed it was something in our way . 
'You said it was Rudderford , observed Ham , laughing . 
'Well ! retorted Mr. Peggotty . 
'And ye steer with a rudder , don't ye ? It ain't fur off . 
How is he , sir ? 'He was very well indeed when I came away , Mr. Peggotty . 
'There's a friend ! said Mr. Peggotty , stretching out his pipe . 
'Handsome ! cried Mr. Peggotty . 
'He stands up to you like like a why I don't know what he don't stand up to you like . 
He's so bold ! 'Yes ! That's just his character , said I. 'He's as brave as a lion , and you can't think how frank he is , Mr. Peggotty . 
'Yes , said I , delighted 'he knows everything . 
'There's a friend ! murmured Mr. Peggotty , with a grave toss of his head . 
'Nothing seems to cost him any trouble , said I. 'He knows a task if he only looks at it . 
He is the best cricketer you ever saw . 
He will give you almost as many men as you like at draughts , and beat you easily . 
Mr. Peggotty gave his head another toss , as much as to say 'Of course he will . 
'He is such a speaker , I pursued , 'that he can win anybody over and I don't know what you'd say if you were to hear him sing , Mr. Peggotty . 
Mr. Peggotty gave his head another toss , as much as to say 'I have no doubt of it . 
I am sure I can never feel thankful enough for the generosity with which he has protected me , so much younger and lower in the school than himself . 
'Em'ly is like me , said Peggotty , 'and would like to see him . 
Em'ly was confused by our all observing her , and hung down her head , and her face was covered with blushes . 
, she ran away , and kept away till it was nearly bedtime . 
I lay down in the old little bed in the stern of the boat , and the wind came moaning on across the flat as it had done before . 
The days passed pretty much as they had passed before , except it was a great exception that little Em'ly and I seldom wandered on the beach now . 
She had tasks to learn , and needle work to do and was absent during a great part of each day . 
But I felt that we should not have had those old wanderings , even if it had been otherwise . 
Wild and full of childish whims as Em'ly was , she was more of a little woman than I had supposed . 
She seemed to have got a great distance away from me , in little more than a year . 
The best times were when she sat quietly at work in the doorway , and I sat on the wooden step at her feet , reading to her . 
On the very first evening after our arrival , Mr. Barkis appeared in an exceedingly vacant and awkward condition , and with a bundle of oranges tied up in a handkerchief . 
These offerings of affection were of a most various and eccentric description . 
Mr. Barkis's wooing , as I remember it , was altogether of a peculiar kind . 
He very seldom said anything but would sit by the fire in much the same attitude as he sat in his cart , and stare heavily at Peggotty , who was opposite . 
He seemed to enjoy himself very much , and not to feel at all called upon to talk . 
I had but a broken sleep the night before , in anticipation of the pleasure of a whole day with Em'ly . 
We were all astir betimes in the morning and while we were yet at breakfast , Mr. Barkis appeared in the distance , driving a chaise cart towards the object of his affections . 
His bright buttons , too , were of the largest size . 
Rendered complete by drab pantaloons and a buff waistcoat , I thought Mr. Barkis a phenomenon of respectability . 
It had better be done by somebody else , Dan'l , said Mrs. Gummidge . 
'I'm a lone lorn creetur' myself , and everythink that reminds me of creetur's that ain't lone and lorn , goes contrary with me . 
'Come , old gal ! cried Mr. Peggotty . 
'No , Dan'l , returned Mrs. Gummidge , whimpering and shaking her head . 
'If I felt less , I could do more . 
You don't feel like me , Dan'l thinks don't go contrary with you , nor you with them you had better do it yourself . 
, that Mrs. Gummidge must do it . 
Which I really thought was a sensible idea , that Ham might have acted on . 
Mr. Barkis and Peggotty were a good while in the church , but came out at last , and then we drove away into the country . 
'What name would it be as I should write up now , if there was a tilt here ? 'Clara Peggotty , again ? I suggested . 
'Clara Peggotty BARKIS ! he returned , and burst into a roar of laughter that shook the chaise . 
In a word , they were married , and had gone into the church for no other purpose . 
Peggotty was resolved that it should be quietly done and the clerk had given her away , and there had been no witnesses of the ceremony . 
We drove to a little inn in a by road , where we were expected , and where we had a very comfortable dinner , and passed the day with great satisfaction . 
I was their chief exponent , and opened Mr. Barkis's mind to an amazing extent . 
I am glad to think there were two such guileless hearts at Peggotty's marriage as little Em'ly's and mine . 
I am glad to think the Loves and Graces took such airy forms in its homely procession . 
Well , we came to the old boat again in good time at night and there Mr. and Mrs. Barkis bade us good bye , and drove away snugly to their own home . 
I felt then , for the first time , that I had lost Peggotty . 
I should have gone to bed with a sore heart indeed under any other roof but that which sheltered little Em'ly's head . 
Mr. Peggotty and Ham knew what was in my thoughts as well as I did , and were ready with some supper and their hospitable faces to drive it away . 
Little Em'ly came and sat beside me on the locker for the only time in all that visit and it was altogether a wonderful close to a wonderful day . 
It was a night tide and soon after we went to bed , Mr. Peggotty and Ham went out to fish . 
But as nothing of the sort happened to be walking about on Yarmouth flats that night , I provided the best substitute I could by dreaming of dragons until morning . 
With morning came Peggotty who called to me , as usual , under my window as if Mr. Barkis the carrier had been from first to last a dream too . 
After breakfast she took me to her own home , and a beautiful little home it was . 
, with a retreating top which opened , let down , and became a desk , within which was a large quarto edition of Foxe's Book of Martyrs . 
which was to be always mine , Peggotty said , and should always be kept for me in exactly the same state . 
I felt the truth and constancy of my dear old nurse , with all my heart , and thanked her as well as I could . 
And now I fell into a state of neglect , which I cannot look back upon without compassion . 
They disliked me and they sullenly , sternly , steadily , overlooked me . 
I think Mr. Murdstone's means were straitened at about this time but it is little to the purpose . 
He could not bear me and in putting me from him he tried , as I believe , to put away the notion that I had any claim upon him and succeeded . 
I was not actively ill used . 
I was not beaten , or starved but the wrong that was done to me had no intervals of relenting , and was done in a systematic , passionless manner . 
Day after day , week after week , month after month , I was coldly neglected . 
When Mr. and Miss Murdstone were at home , I took my meals with them in their absence , I ate and drank by myself . 
For the same reason , added no doubt to the old dislike of her , I was seldom allowed to visit Peggotty . 
They were my only comfort and I was as true to them as they were to me , and read them over and over I don't know how many times more . 
I was confused , and was going by them , when the gentleman cried 'What ! Brooks ! 'No , sir , David Copperfield , I said . 
You are Brooks , said the gentleman . 
'You are Brooks of Sheffield . 
At these words , I observed the gentleman more attentively . 
'And how do you get on , and where are you being educated , Brooks ? said Mr. Quinion . 
He had put his hand upon my shoulder , and turned me about , to walk with them . 
I did not know what to reply , and glanced dubiously at Mr. Murdstone . 
'He is at home at present , said the latter . 
'He is not being educated anywhere . 
I don't know what to do with him . 
He is a difficult subject . 
That old , double look was on me for a moment and then his eyes darkened with a frown , as it turned , in its aversion , elsewhere . 
'Humph ! said Mr. Quinion , looking at us both , I thought . 
'You had better let him go . 
He will not thank you for troubling him . 
On this hint , Mr. Quinion released me , and I made the best of my way home . 
Looking back as I turned into the front garden , I saw Mr. Murdstone leaning against the wicket of the churchyard , and Mr. Quinion talking to him . 
They were both looking after me , and I felt that they were speaking of me . 
Mr. Quinion lay at our house that night . 
After breakfast , the next morning , I had put my chair away , and was going out of the room , when Mr. Murdstone called me back . 
He then gravely repaired to another table , where his sister sat herself at her desk . 
Mr. Quinion , with his hands in his pockets , stood looking out of window and I stood looking at them all . 
'David , said Mr. Murdstone , 'to the young this is a world for action not for moping and droning in . 
'As you do , added his sister . 
'Jane Murdstone , leave it to me , if you please . 
I say , David , to the young this is a world for action , and not for moping and droning in . 
'For stubbornness won't do here , said his sister 'What it wants is , to be crushed . 
And crushed it must be . 
At any rate , you know it now . 
You have received some considerable education already . 
What is before you , is a fight with the world and the sooner you begin it , the better . 
I think it occurred to me that I had already begun it , in my poor way but it occurs to me now , whether or no . 
'You have heard the counting house mentioned sometimes , said Mr. Murdstone . 
'The counting house , sir ? I repeated . 
'Of Murdstone and Grinby , in the wine trade , he replied . 
'I think I have heard the business mentioned , sir , I said , remembering what I vaguely knew of his and his sister's resources . 
'But I don't know when . 
'It does not matter when , he returned . 
I glanced at the latter deferentially as he stood looking out of window . 
Quinion suggests that it gives employment to some other boys , and that he sees no reason why it shouldn't , on the same terms , give employment to you . 
'He having , Mr. Quinion observed in a low voice , and half turning round , 'no other prospect , Murdstone . 
Your lodging will be paid by me . 
So will your washing Which will be kept down to my estimate , said his sister . 
'Your clothes will be looked after for you , too , said Mr. Murdstone 'as you will not be able , yet awhile , to get them for yourself . 
So you are now going to London , David , with Mr. Quinion , to begin the world on your own account . 
'In short , you are provided for , observed his sister 'and will please to do your duty . 
Though I quite understood that the purpose of this announcement was to get rid of me , I have no distinct remembrance whether it pleased or frightened me . 
My impression is , that I was in a state of confusion about it , and , oscillating between the two points , touched neither . 
Nor had I much time for the clearing of my thoughts , as Mr. Quinion was to go upon the morrow . 
But none was made and I became , at ten years old , a little labouring hind in the service of Murdstone and Grinby . 
Murdstone and Grinby's warehouse was at the waterside . 
It was down in Blackfriars . 
They are all before me , just as they were in the evil hour when I went among them for the first time , with my trembling hand in Mr. Quinion's . 
Murdstone and Grinby's trade was among a good many kinds of people , but an important branch of it was the supply of wines and spirits to certain packet ships . 
I forget now where they chiefly went , but I think there were some among them that made voyages both to the East and West Indies . 
All this work was my work , and of the boys employed upon it I was one . 
There were three or four of us , counting me . 
Hither , on the first morning of my so auspiciously beginning life on my own account , the oldest of the regular boys was summoned to show me my business . 
His name was Mick Walker , and he wore a ragged apron and a paper cap . 
He informed me that his father was a bargeman , and walked , in a black velvet head dress , in the Lord Mayor's Show . 
He also informed me that our principal associate would be another boy whom he introduced by the to me extraordinary name of Mealy Potatoes . 
than there is upon an egg , and with a very extensive face , which he turned full upon me . 
His clothes were shabby , but he had an imposing shirt collar on . 
'This , said Mr. Quinion , in allusion to myself , 'is he . 
I hope I see you well , sir ? I said I was very well , and hoped he was . 
'I am , said the stranger , 'thank Heaven , quite well . 
'This is Mr. Micawber , said Mr. Quinion to me . 
'Ahem ! said the stranger , 'that is my name . 
Micawber , said Mr. Quinion , 'is known to Mr. Murdstone . 
He takes orders for us on commission , when he can get any . 
He has been written to by Mr. Murdstone , on the subject of your lodgings , and he will receive you as a lodger . 
'My address , said Mr. Micawber , 'is Windsor Terrace , City Road . 
I in short , said Mr. Micawber , with the same genteel air , and in another burst of confidence 'I live there . 
I made him a bow . 
I thanked him with all my heart , for it was friendly in him to offer to take that trouble . 
'At what hour , said Mr. Micawber , 'shall I 'At about eight , said Mr. Quinion . 
'At about eight , said Mr. Micawber . 
'I beg to wish you good day , Mr. Quinion . 
I will intrude no longer . 
So he put on his hat , and went out with his cane under his arm very upright , and humming a tune when he was clear of the counting house . 
Mr. Quinion then formally engaged me to be as useful as I could in the warehouse of Murdstone and Grinby , at a salary , I think , of six shillings a week . 
I am not clear whether it was six or seven . 
I am inclined to believe , from my uncertainty on this head , that it was six at first and seven afterwards . 
, and I gave Mealy sixpence out of it to get my trunk carried to Windsor Terrace that night it being too heavy for my strength , small as it was . 
At the appointed time in the evening , Mr. Micawber reappeared . 
, with a baby at her breast . 
One of them was always taking refreshment . 
There were two other children Master Micawber , aged about four , and Miss Micawber , aged about three . 
Luke's workhouse , in the neighbourhood , completed the establishment . 
But Mr. Micawber being in difficulties , all considerations of private feeling must give way . 
I said 'Yes , ma'am . 
Micawber's difficulties are almost overwhelming just at present , said Mrs. Micawber 'and whether it is possible to bring him through them , I don't know . 
I cannot satisfy myself whether she told me that Mr. Micawber had been an officer in the Marines , or whether I have imagined it . 
I only know that I believe to this hour that he WAS in the Marines once upon a time , without knowing why . 
He was a sort of town traveller for a number of miscellaneous houses , now but made little or nothing of it , I am afraid . 
'If Mr. Micawber's creditors will not give him time , said Mrs. Micawber , 'they must take the consequences and the sooner they bring it to an issue the better . 
Poor Mrs. Micawber ! She said she had tried to exert herself , and so , I have no doubt , she had . 
The centre of the street door was perfectly covered with a great brass plate , on which was engraved 'Mrs . 
The only visitors I ever saw , or heard of , were creditors . 
THEY used to come at all hours , and some of them were quite ferocious . 
Pay us , will you ? Don't hide , you know that's mean . 
I wouldn't be mean if I was you . 
Mrs. Micawber was quite as elastic . 
In this house , and with this family , I passed my leisure time . 
My own exclusive breakfast of a penny loaf and a pennyworth of milk , I provided myself . 
I kept another small loaf , and a modicum of cheese , on a particular shelf of a particular cupboard , to make my supper on when I came back at night . 
Then , I went without my dinner , or bought a roll or a slice of pudding . 
I remember two pudding shops , between which I was divided , according to my finances . 
One was in a court close to St . 
Martin's Church at the back of the church , which is now removed altogether . 
The pudding at that shop was made of currants , and was rather a special pudding , but was dear , twopennyworth not being larger than a pennyworth of more ordinary pudding . 
A good shop for the latter was in the Strand somewhere in that part which has been rebuilt since . 
It was a stout pale pudding , heavy and flabby , and with great flat raisins in it , stuck in whole at wide distances apart . 
It came up hot at about my time every day , and many a day did I dine off it . 
I gave him a halfpenny for himself , and I wish he hadn't taken it . 
We had half an hour , I think , for tea . 
When I had money enough , I used to get half a pint of ready made coffee and a slice of bread and butter . 
I was fond of wandering about the Adelphi , because it was a mysterious place , with those dark arches . 
It may have been my birthday . 
'Twopence halfpenny , says the landlord , 'is the price of the Genuine Stunning ale . 
'Then , says I , producing the money , 'just draw me a glass of the Genuine Stunning , if you please , with a good head to it . 
She came out from behind it , with her work in her hand , and joined him in surveying me . 
Here we stand , all three , before me now . 
They asked me a good many questions as , what my name was , how old I was , where I lived , how I was employed , and how I came there . 
To all of which , that I might commit nobody , I invented , I am afraid , appropriate answers . 
I know I do not exaggerate , unconsciously and unintentionally , the scantiness of my resources or the difficulties of my life . 
I know that if a shilling were given me by Mr. Quinion at any time , I spent it in a dinner or a tea . 
I know that I worked , from morning until night , with common men and boys , a shabby child . 
I know that I lounged about the streets , insufficiently and unsatisfactorily fed . 
I know that , but for the mercy of God , I might easily have been , for any care that was taken of me , a little robber or a little vagabond . 
Yet I held some station at Murdstone and Grinby's too . 
But I kept my own counsel , and I did my work . 
I knew from the first , that , if I could not do my work as well as any of the rest , I could not hold myself above slight and contempt . 
I soon became at least as expeditious and as skilful as either of the other boys . 
Though perfectly familiar with them , my conduct and manner were different enough from theirs to place a space between us . 
They and the men generally spoke of me as 'the little gent' , or 'the young Suffolker . 
Mealy Potatoes uprose once , and rebelled against my being so distinguished but Mick Walker settled him in no time . 
My rescue from this kind of existence I considered quite hopeless , and abandoned , as such , altogether . 
Mr. Micawber's difficulties were an addition to the distressed state of my mind . 
And Mrs. Micawber was just the same . 
A curious equality of friendship , originating , I suppose , in our respective circumstances , sprung up between me and these people , notwithstanding the ludicrous disparity in our years . 
, until Mrs. Micawber took me into her entire confidence . 
It made me very miserable to hear it , and I looked at Mrs. Micawber's red eyes with the utmost sympathy . 
I was accustomed to speak of the larder when I lived with papa and mama , and I use the word almost unconsciously . 
What I mean to express is , that there is nothing to eat in the house . 
'Dear me ! I said , in great concern . 
But that lady , kissing me , and making me put them back in my pocket , replied that she couldn't think of it . 
I begged Mrs. Micawber to name it . 
'I have parted with the plate myself , said Mrs. Micawber . 
'Six tea , two salt , and a pair of sugars , I have at different times borrowed money on , in secret , with my own hands . 
But the twins are a great tie and to me , with my recollections , of papa and mama , these transactions are very painful . 
There are still a few trifles that we could part with . 
Master Copperfield , if I might ask you I understood Mrs. Micawber now , and begged her to make use of me to any extent . 
I began to dispose of the more portable articles of property that very evening and went out on a similar expedition almost every morning , before I went to Murdstone and Grinby's . 
Mr. Micawber had a few books on a little chiffonier , which he called the library and those went first . 
The keeper of this bookstall , who lived in a little house behind it , used to get tipsy every night , and to be violently scolded by his wife every morning . 
At the pawnbroker's shop , too , I began to be very well known . 
After all these occasions Mrs. Micawber made a little treat , which was generally a supper and there was a peculiar relish in these meals which I well remember . 
At last Mr. Micawber's difficulties came to a crisis , and he was arrested early one morning , and carried over to the King's Bench Prison in the Borough . 
But I heard , afterwards , that he was seen to play a lively game at skittles , before noon . 
On the first Sunday after he was taken there , I was to go and see him , and have dinner with him . 
Mr. Micawber was waiting for me within the gate , and we went up to his room , and cried very much . 
After which he borrowed a shilling of me for porter , gave me a written order on Mrs. Micawber for the amount , and put away his pocket handkerchief , and cheered up . 
Captain Hopkins lent me the knife and fork , with his compliments to Mr. Micawber . 
There was a very dirty lady in his little room , and two wan girls , his daughters , with shock heads of hair . 
I thought it was better to borrow Captain Hopkins's knife and fork , than Captain Hopkins's comb . 
The Captain himself was in the last extremity of shabbiness , with large whiskers , and an old , old brown great coat with no other coat below it . 
that though the two girls with the shock heads of hair were Captain Hopkins's children , the dirty lady was not married to Captain Hopkins . 
There was something gipsy like and agreeable in the dinner , after all . 
I took back Captain Hopkins's knife and fork early in the afternoon , and went home to comfort Mrs. Micawber with an account of my visit . 
She fainted when she saw me return , and made a little jug of egg hot afterwards to console us while we talked it over . 
I don't know how the household furniture came to be sold for the family benefit , or who sold it , except that I did not . 
Sold it was , however , and carried away in a van except the bed , a few chairs , and the kitchen table . 
I have no idea for how long , though it seems to me for a long time . 
At last Mrs. Micawber resolved to move into the prison , where Mr. Micawber had now secured a room to himself . 
The Orfling was likewise accommodated with an inexpensive lodging in the same neighbourhood . 
I led the same secretly unhappy life but I led it in the same lonely , self reliant manner . 
I used to breakfast with them now , in virtue of some arrangement , of which I have forgotten the details . 
Whether Mr. Murdstone knew where I was , I am unable to say . 
I never told them at Murdstone and Grinby's . 
There was a club in the prison , in which Mr. Micawber , as a gentleman , was a great authority . 
Mr. Micawber had stated his idea of this petition to the club , and the club had strongly approved of the same . 
stationed himself close to it , to read it to all who were unacquainted with its contents . 
To everybody in succession , Captain Hopkins said 'Have you read it ? 'No . 
The Captain would have read it twenty thousand times , if twenty thousand people would have heard him , one by one . 
the spikes on the opposite wall . 
He said he thought it was human nature . 
M r Micawber returned to the King's Bench when his case was over , as some fees were to be settled , and some formalities observed , before he could be actually released . 
'Are they dead , ma'am ? I inquired , after drinking the toast in a wine glass . 
'My mama departed this life , said Mrs. Micawber , 'before Mr. Micawber's difficulties commenced , or at least before they became pressing . 
My papa lived to bail Mr. Micawber several times , and then expired , regretted by a numerous circle . 
Mrs. Micawber shook her head , and dropped a pious tear upon the twin who happened to be in hand . 
Mr. Micawber is a man of great talent , Master Copperfield . 
I said I was sure of that . 
'Of great talent , repeated Mrs. Micawber . 
'My family are of opinion , that , with a little interest , something might be done for a man of his ability in the Custom House . 
The influence of my family being local , it is their wish that Mr. Micawber should go down to Plymouth . 
They think it indispensable that he should be upon the spot . 
'That he may be ready ? I suggested . 
'Exactly , returned Mrs. Micawber . 
'That he may be ready in case of anything turning up . 
Mr. Micawber may have concealed his difficulties from me in the first instance , but his sanguine temper may have led him to expect that he would overcome them . 
But I never will desert Mr. Micawber . 
I do not deny that he is improvident . 
'Emma , my angel ! cried Mr. Micawber , running into the room 'what is the matter ? 'I never will desert you , Micawber ! she exclaimed . 
'My life ! said Mr. Micawber , taking her in his arms . 
'I am perfectly aware of it . 
, that he hung over her in a passionate manner , imploring her to look up , and to be calm . 
But the more he asked Mrs. Micawber to look up , the more she fixed her eyes on nothing and the more he asked her to compose herself , the more she wouldn't . 
I would have taken my leave for the night , but he would not hear of my doing that until the strangers' bell should ring . 
So I sat at the staircase window , until he came out with another chair and joined me . 
'How is Mrs. Micawber now , sir ? I said . 
'Very low , said Mr. Micawber , shaking his head 'reaction . 
Ah , this has been a dreadful day ! We stand alone now everything is gone from us ! Mr. Micawber pressed my hand , and groaned , and afterwards shed tears . 
I was greatly touched , and disappointed too , for I had expected that we should be quite gay on this happy and long looked for occasion . 
But Mr. and Mrs. Micawber were so used to their old difficulties , I think , that they felt quite shipwrecked when they came to consider that they were released from them . 
That there was no hope of escape from it , unless the escape was my own act , I knew quite well . 
The very next day showed me , while my mind was in the first agitation of what it had conceived , that Mrs. Micawber had not spoken of their going away without warrant . 
They took a lodging in the house where I lived , for a week at the expiration of which time they were to start for Plymouth . 
On the last Sunday , they invited me to dinner and we had a loin of pork and apple sauce , and a pudding . 
I had bought a spotted wooden horse over night as a parting gift to little Wilkins Micawber that was the boy and a doll for little Emma . 
I had also bestowed a shilling on the Orfling , who was about to be disbanded . 
We had a very pleasant day , though we were all in a tender state about our approaching separation . 
'I shall never , Master Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , 'revert to the period when Mr. Micawber was in difficulties , without thinking of you . 
Your conduct has always been of the most delicate and obliging description . 
You have never been a lodger . 
You have been a friend . 
I expressed my sense of this commendation , and said I was very sorry we were going to lose one another . 
, I have nothing to bestow but advice . 
'My dear Micawber ! urged his wife . 
'I say , returned Mr. Micawber , quite forgetting himself , and smiling again , 'the miserable wretch you behold . 
My advice is , never do tomorrow what you can do today . 
Procrastination is the thief of time . 
Collar him ! 'My poor papa's maxim , Mrs. Micawber observed . 
'My dear , said Mr. Micawber , 'your papa was very well in his way , and Heaven forbid that I should disparage him . 
But he applied that maxim to our marriage , my dear and that was so far prematurely entered into , in consequence , that I never recovered the expense . 
Mr. Micawber looked aside at Mrs. Micawber , and added 'Not that I am sorry for it . 
Quite the contrary , my love . 
After which , he was grave for a minute or so . 
'My other piece of advice , Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , 'you know . 
Annual income twenty pounds , annual expenditure nineteen nineteen and six , result happiness . 
Annual income twenty pounds , annual expenditure twenty pounds ought and six , result misery . 
The blossom is blighted , the leaf is withered , the god of day goes down upon the dreary scene , and and in short you are for ever floored . 
As I am ! To make his example the more impressive , Mr. Micawber drank a glass of punch with an air of great enjoyment and satisfaction , and whistled the College Hornpipe . 
Next morning I met the whole family at the coach office , and saw them , with a desolate heart , take their places outside , at the back . 
'Master Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , 'God bless you ! I never can forget all that , you know , and I never would if I could . 
, I shall be extremely happy if it should be in my power to improve your prospects . 
I had barely time to get down again before the coach started , and I could hardly see the family for the handkerchiefs they waved . 
It was gone in a minute . 
Luke's workhouse , as I went to begin my weary day at Murdstone and Grinby's . 
But with no intention of passing many more weary days there . 
No. I had resolved to run away . 
I have already observed that I don't know how this desperate idea came into my brain . 
But , once there , it remained there and hardened into a purpose than which I have never entertained a more determined purpose in my life . 
I am far from sure that I believed there was anything hopeful in it , but my mind was thoroughly made up that it must be carried into execution . 
It is very possible that it had been in my mind a long time , and had gradually engendered my determination . 
Peggotty's answer soon arrived , and was , as usual , full of affectionate devotion . 
, and told me that Miss Betsey lived near Dover , but whether at Dover itself , at Hythe , Sandgate , or Folkestone , she could not say . 
For this express reason , I had borrowed the half guinea , that I might not be without a fund for my travelling expenses . 
I stopped to assure him that I had not done so in bad manners , but uncertain whether he might or might not like a job . 
'Wot job ? said the long legged young man . 
'To move a box , I answered . 
'Wot box ? said the long legged young man . 
I told him mine , which was down that street there , and which I wanted him to take to the Dover coach office for sixpence . 
Being much flushed and excited , I tumbled my half guinea out of my pocket in pulling the card out . 
'Wot ! said the young man , seizing me by my jacket collar , with a frightful grin . 
'Come to the pollis ! said the young man . 
'You shall prove it yourn to the pollis . 
'Give me my box and money , will you , I cried , bursting into tears . 
I narrowly escaped being run over , twenty times at least , in half a mile . 
It was by this time dark I heard the clocks strike ten , as I sat resting . 
But it was a summer night , fortunately , and fine weather . 
When I had recovered my breath , and had got rid of a stifling sensation in my throat , I rose up and went on . 
In the midst of my distress , I had no notion of going back . 
I doubt if I should have had any , though there had been a Swiss snow drift in the Kent Road . 
troubled me none the less because I went on . 
My late experiences with Mr. and Mrs. Micawber suggested to me that here might be a means of keeping off the wolf for a little while . 
I went up the next by street , took off my waistcoat , rolled it neatly under my arm , and came back to the shop door . 
'If you please , sir , I said , 'I am to sell this for a fair price . 
'I can't be buyer and seller too , said Mr. Dolloby . 
'Put a price on this here little weskit . 
'Would eighteenpence be ? I hinted , after some hesitation . 
Mr. Dolloby rolled it up again , and gave it me back . 
'I should rob my family , he said , 'if I was to offer ninepence for it . 
This was a disagreeable way of putting the business because it imposed upon me , a perfect stranger , the unpleasantness of asking Mr. Dolloby to rob his family on my account . 
My circumstances being so very pressing , however , I said I would take ninepence for it , if he pleased . 
Mr. Dolloby , not without some grumbling , gave ninepence . 
I wished him good night , and walked out of the shop the richer by that sum , and the poorer by a waistcoat . 
But when I buttoned my jacket , that was not much . 
But my mind did not run so much on this as might be supposed . 
A plan had occurred to me for passing the night , which I was going to carry into execution . 
This was , to lie behind the wall at the back of my old school , in a corner where there used to be a haystack . 
I had had a hard day's work , and was pretty well jaded when I came climbing out , at last , upon the level of Blackheath . 
When I remembered where I was at that untimely hour , a feeling stole upon me that made me get up , afraid of I don't know what , and walk about . 
If I could have hoped that Steerforth was there , I would have lurked about until he came out alone but I knew he must have left long since . 
But the peace and rest of the old Sunday morning were on everything , except me . 
I felt quite wicked in my dirt and dust , with my tangled hair . 
But it always went before me , and I followed . 
I got , that Sunday , through three and twenty miles on the straight road , though not very easily , for I was new to that kind of toil . 
I see myself , as evening closes in , coming over the bridge at Rochester , footsore and tired , and eating bread that I had bought for supper . 
Accordingly , I took the jacket off , that I might learn to do without it and carrying it under my arm , began a tour of inspection of the various slop shops . 
This modesty of mine directed my attention to the marine store shops , and such shops as Mr. Dolloby's , in preference to the regular dealers . 
He was a dreadful old man to look at , in a filthy flannel waistcoat , and smelling terribly of rum . 
'Oh , what do you want ? grinned this old man , in a fierce , monotonous whine . 
'I wanted to know , I said , trembling , 'if you would buy a jacket . 
'Oh , let's see the jacket ! cried the old man . 
'Oh , how much for the jacket ? cried the old man , after examining it . 
'Oh goroo ! how much for the jacket ? 'Half a crown , I answered , recovering myself . 
'Oh , my lungs and liver , cried the old man , 'no ! Oh , my eyes , no ! Oh , my limbs , no ! Eighteenpence . 
'Well , said I , glad to have closed the bargain , 'I'll take eighteenpence . 
'Oh , my liver ! cried the old man , throwing the jacket on a shelf . 
'Get out of the shop ! Oh , my lungs , get out of the shop ! Oh , my eyes and limbs goroo ! don't ask for money make it an exchange . 
So I went outside , and sat down in the shade in a corner . 
And I sat there so many hours , that the shade became sunlight , and the sunlight became shade again , and still I sat there waiting for the money . 
There never was such another drunken madman in that line of business , I hope . 
'You ain't poor , you know , Charley , as you pretend . 
Bring out some of the gold you sold yourself to the devil for . 
Come ! It's in the lining of the mattress , Charley . 
But I resisted all these overtures , and sat there in desperation each time asking him , with tears in my eyes , for my money or my jacket . 
At last he began to pay me in halfpence at a time and was full two hours getting by easy stages to a shilling . 
'Oh , my lungs and liver , will you go for threepence ? 'I would go for nothing , if I could , I said , 'but I want the money badly . 
But at an expense of threepence I soon refreshed myself completely and , being in better spirits then , limped seven miles upon my road . 
When I took the road again next morning , I found that it lay through a succession of hop grounds and orchards . 
It was sufficiently late in the year for the orchards to be ruddy with ripe apples and in a few places the hop pickers were already at work . 
The trampers were worse than ever that day , and inspired me with a dread that is yet quite fresh in my mind . 
'Come here , when you're called , said the tinker , 'or I'll rip your young body open . 
I thought it best to go back . 
As I drew nearer to them , trying to propitiate the tinker by my looks , I observed that the woman had a black eye . 
'Where are you going ? said the tinker , gripping the bosom of my shirt with his blackened hand . 
'I am going to Dover , I said . 
'Where do you come from ? asked the tinker , giving his hand another turn in my shirt , to hold me more securely . 
'I come from London , I said . 
'What lay are you upon ? asked the tinker . 
'Are you a prig ? 'N no , I said . 
'Ain't you , by G ? If you make a brag of your honesty to me , said the tinker , 'I'll knock your brains out . 
With his disengaged hand he made a menace of striking me , and then looked at me from head to foot . 
'Have you got the price of a pint of beer about you ? said the tinker . 
'I am very poor , I said , attempting to smile , 'and have got no money . 
'Why , what do you mean ? said the tinker , looking so sternly at me , that I almost feared he saw the money in my pocket . 
It always kept me company . 
It was there , among the hops , when I lay down to sleep it was with me on my waking in the morning it went before me all day . 
I inquired about my aunt among the boatmen first , and received various answers . 
I felt more miserable and destitute than I had done at any period of my running away . 
I know the name , too . 
Old lady ? 'Yes , I said , 'rather . 
'Pretty stiff in the back ? said he , making himself upright . 
'I should think it very likely . 
'Why then , I tell you what , said he . 
My opinion is she won't stand anything , so here's a penny for you . 
I accepted the gift thankfully , and bought a loaf with it . 
Dispatching this refreshment by the way , I went in the direction my friend had indicated , and walked on a good distance without coming to the houses he had mentioned . 
, and inquired if they could have the goodness to tell me where Miss Trotwood lived . 
I addressed myself to a man behind the counter , who was weighing some rice for a young woman but the latter , taking the inquiry to herself , turned round quickly . 
'My mistress ? she said . 
'What do you want with her , boy ? 'I want , I replied , 'to speak to her , if you please . 
'To beg of her , you mean , retorted the damsel . 
'No , I said , 'indeed . 
But suddenly remembering that in truth I came for no other purpose , I held my peace in confusion , and felt my face burn . 
I needed no second permission though I was by this time in such a state of consternation and agitation , that my legs shook under me . 
'This is Miss Trotwood's , said the young woman . 
'Now you know and that's all I have got to say . 
My shoes were by this time in a woeful condition . 
The soles had shed themselves bit by bit , and the upper leathers had broken and burst until the very shape and form of shoes had departed from them . 
was so crushed and bent , that no old battered handleless saucepan on a dunghill need have been ashamed to vie with it . 
My hair had known no comb or brush since I left London . 
My face , neck , and hands , from unaccustomed exposure to the air and sun , were burnt to a berry brown . 
From head to foot I was powdered almost as white with chalk and dust , as if I had come out of a lime kiln . 
In this plight , and with a strong consciousness of it , I waited to introduce myself to , and make my first impression on , my formidable aunt . 
'Go away ! said Miss Betsey , shaking her head , and making a distant chop in the air with her knife . 
Then , without a scrap of courage , but with a great deal of desperation , I went softly in and stood beside her , touching her with my finger . 
'If you please , ma'am , I began . 
She started and looked up . 
'If you please , aunt . 
'EH ? exclaimed Miss Betsey , in a tone of amazement I have never heard approached . 
'If you please , aunt , I am your nephew . 
'Oh , Lord ! said my aunt . 
And sat flat down in the garden path . 
'I am David Copperfield , of Blunderstone , in Suffolk where you came , on the night when I was born , and saw my dear mama . 
I have been very unhappy since she died . 
I have been slighted , and taught nothing , and thrown upon myself , and put to work not fit for me . 
It made me run away to you . 
I was robbed at first setting out , and have walked all the way , and have never slept in a bed since I began the journey . 
Her first proceeding there was to unlock a tall press , bring out several bottles , and pour some of the contents of each into my mouth . 
I think they must have been taken out at random , for I am sure I tasted aniseed water , anchovy sauce , and salad dressing . 
After a time she rang the bell . 
'Janet , said my aunt , when her servant came in . 
'Go upstairs , give my compliments to Mr. Dick , and say I wish to speak to him . 
, but went on her errand . 
My aunt , with her hands behind her , walked up and down the room , until the gentleman who had squinted at me from the upper window came in laughing . 
Dick , said my aunt , 'don't be a fool , because nobody can be more discreet than you can , when you choose . 
So don't be a fool , whatever you are . 
The gentleman was serious immediately , and looked at me , I thought , as if he would entreat me to say nothing about the window . 
Dick , said my aunt , 'you have heard me mention David Copperfield ? Now don't pretend not to have a memory , because you and I know better . 
'David Copperfield ? said Mr. Dick , who did not appear to me to remember much about it . 
'David Copperfield ? Oh yes , to be sure . 
'Well , said my aunt , 'this is his boy his son . 
He would be as like his father as it's possible to be , if he was not so like his mother , too . 
'His son ? said Mr. Dick . 
'David's son ? Indeed ! 'Yes , pursued my aunt , 'and he has done a pretty piece of business . 
Ah ! His sister , Betsey Trotwood , never would have run away . 
My aunt shook her head firmly , confident in the character and behaviour of the girl who never was born . 
'Oh ! you think she wouldn't have run away ? said Mr. Dick . 
Where , in the name of wonder , should his sister , Betsey Trotwood , have run from , or to ? 'Nowhere , said Mr. Dick . 
'Oh ! do with him ? 'Yes , said my aunt , with a grave look , and her forefinger held up . 
'Come ! I want some very sound advice . 
Dick sets us all right . 
MY aunt was a tall , hard featured lady , but by no means ill looking . 
I particularly noticed that she had a very quick , bright eye . 
Her dress was of a lavender colour , and perfectly neat but scantily made , as if she desired to be as little encumbered as possible . 
I remember that I thought it , in form , more like a riding habit with the superfluous skirt cut off , than anything else . 
Janet was a pretty blooming girl , of about nineteen or twenty , and a perfect picture of neatness . 
The room was as neat as Janet or my aunt . 
The one great outrage of her life , demanding to be constantly avenged , was the passage of a donkey over that immaculate spot . 
Perhaps this was an agreeable excitement to the donkey boys or perhaps the more sagacious of the donkeys , understanding how the case stood , delighted with constitutional obstinacy in coming that way . 
The bath was a great comfort . 
enrobed me in a shirt and a pair of trousers belonging to Mr. Dick , and tied me up in two or three great shawls . 
What sort of bundle I looked like , I don't know , but I felt a very hot one . 
Feeling also very faint and drowsy , I soon lay down on the sofa again and fell asleep . 
We dined soon after I awoke , off a roast fowl and a pudding I sitting at table , not unlike a trussed bird myself , and moving my arms with considerable difficulty . 
But as my aunt had swathed me up , I made no complaint of being inconvenienced . 
'Whatever possessed that poor unfortunate Baby , that she must go and be married again , said my aunt , when I had finished , 'I can't conceive . 
'Perhaps she fell in love with her second husband , Mr. Dick suggested . 
'Fell in love ! repeated my aunt . 
'What do you mean ? What business had she to do it ? 'Perhaps , Mr. Dick simpered , after thinking a little , 'she did it for pleasure . 
'Pleasure , indeed ! replied my aunt . 
'A mighty pleasure for the poor Baby to fix her simple faith upon any dog of a fellow , certain to ill use her in some way or other . 
What did she propose to herself , I should like to know ! She had had one husband . 
She had seen David Copperfield out of the world , who was always running after wax dolls from his cradle . 
'She couldn't even have a baby like anybody else , said my aunt . 
'Where was this child's sister , Betsey Trotwood ? Not forthcoming . 
Don't tell me ! Mr. Dick seemed quite frightened . 
He's as like Cain before he was grown up , as he can be . 
Mr. Dick looked hard at me , as if to identify me in this character . 
'And then there's that woman with the Pagan name , said my aunt , 'that Peggotty , she goes and gets married next . 
Because she has not seen enough of the evil attending such things , she goes and gets married next , as the child relates . 
I could not bear to hear my old nurse so decried , and made the subject of such a wish . 
I told my aunt that indeed she was mistaken . 
'Now , Mr. Dick , said my aunt , with her grave look , and her forefinger up as before , 'I am going to ask you another question . 
'David's son ? said Mr. Dick , with an attentive , puzzled face . 
'Exactly so , returned my aunt . 
'What would you do with him , now ? 'Do with David's son ? said Mr. Dick . 
'Ay , replied my aunt , 'with David's son . 
'Oh ! said Mr. Dick . 
Do with I should put him to bed . 
'Janet ! cried my aunt , with the same complacent triumph that I had remarked before . 
Dick sets us all right . 
If the bed is ready , we'll take him up to it . 
The room was a pleasant one , at the top of the house , overlooking the sea , on which the moon was shining brilliantly . 
I remember how I seemed to float , then , down the melancholy glory of that track upon the sea , away into the world of dreams . 
I felt sure that I had been the subject of her reflections , and was more than ever anxious to know her intentions towards me . 
Yet I dared not express my anxiety , lest it should give her offence . 
My eyes , however , not being so much under control as my tongue , were attracted towards my aunt very often during breakfast . 
'Hallo ! said my aunt , after a long time . 
I looked up , and met her sharp bright glance respectfully . 
'I have written to him , said my aunt . 
'To ? 'To your father in law , said my aunt . 
'I have told him , said my aunt , with a nod . 
'Shall I be given up to him ? I faltered . 
'I don't know , said my aunt . 
'I can't say , I am sure . 
My spirits sank under these words , and I became very downcast and heavy of heart . 
, until there did not appear to be one microscopic speck left on the carpet next dusted and arranged the room , which was dusted and arranged to a hair'sbreadth already . 
I rose with all alacrity , to acquit myself of this commission . 
'You are not to suppose that he hasn't got a longer name , if he chose to use it , said my aunt , with a loftier air . 
'Babley Mr. Richard Babley that's the gentleman's true name . 
He can't bear his name . 
That's a peculiarity of his . 
Mr. Dick is his name here , and everywhere else , now if he ever went anywhere else , which he don't . 
So take care , child , you don't call him anything BUT Mr. Dick . 
I found him still driving at it with a long pen , and his head almost laid upon the paper . 
, before he observed my being present . 
'Ha ! Phoebus ! said Mr. Dick , laying down his pen . 
Mad as Bedlam , boy ! said Mr. Dick , taking snuff from a round box on the table , and laughing heartily . 
Without presuming to give my opinion on this question , I delivered my message . 
'Well , said Mr. Dick , in answer , 'my compliments to her , and I I believe I have made a start . 
I think I have made a start , said Mr. Dick , passing his hand among his grey hair , and casting anything but a confident look at his manuscript . 
'You have been to school ? 'Yes , sir , I answered 'for a short time . 
'Well , returned Mr. Dick , scratching his ear with his pen , and looking dubiously at me . 
'So the books say but I don't see how that can be . 
'It's very strange , said Mr. Dick , with a despondent look upon his papers , and with his hand among his hair again , 'that I never can get that quite right . 
I never can make that perfectly clear . 
But no matter , no matter ! he said cheerfully , and rousing himself , 'there's time enough ! My compliments to Miss Trotwood , I am getting on very well indeed . 
I was going away , when he directed my attention to the kite . 
'What do you think of that for a kite ? he said . 
I answered that it was a beautiful one . 
I should think it must have been as much as seven feet high . 
We'll go and fly it , you and I , said Mr. Dick . 
'There's plenty of string , said Mr. Dick , 'and when it flies high , it takes the facts a long way . 
That's my manner of diffusing 'em . 
I don't know where they may come down . 
It's according to circumstances , and the wind , and so forth but I take my chance of that . 
So I laughed , and he laughed , and we parted the best friends possible . 
'Well , child , said my aunt , when I went downstairs . 
'And what of Mr. Dick , this morning ? I informed her that he sent his compliments , and was getting on very well indeed . 
'What do you think of him ? said my aunt . 
'Not a morsel , said my aunt . 
'Oh , indeed ! I observed faintly . 
'If there is anything in the world , said my aunt , with great decision and force of manner , 'that Mr. Dick is not , it's that . 
I had nothing better to offer , than another timid , 'Oh , indeed ! 'He has been CALLED mad , said my aunt . 
'So long as that ? I said . 
'And nice people they were , who had the audacity to call him mad , pursued my aunt . 
Dick is a sort of distant connexion of mine it doesn't matter how I needn't enter into that . 
If it hadn't been for me , his own brother would have shut him up for life . 
I am afraid it was hypocritical in me , but seeing that my aunt felt strongly on the subject , I tried to look as if I felt strongly too . 
'A proud fool ! said my aunt . 
And a wise man he must have been to think so ! Mad himself , no doubt . 
Again , as my aunt looked quite convinced , I endeavoured to look quite convinced also . 
'So I stepped in , said my aunt , 'and made him an offer . 
I said , Your brother's sane a great deal more sane than you are , or ever will be , it is to be hoped . 
Let him have his little income , and come and live with me . 
I am not afraid of him , I am not proud , I am ready to take care of him , and shall not ill treat him as some people have done . 
After a good deal of squabbling , said my aunt , 'I got him and he has been here ever since . 
He is the most friendly and amenable creature in existence and as for advice ! But nobody knows what that man's mind is , except myself . 
My aunt smoothed her dress and shook her head , as if she smoothed defiance of the whole world out of the one , and shook it out of the other . 
'He had a favourite sister , said my aunt , 'a good creature , and very kind to him . 
But she did what they all do took a husband . 
And HE did what they all do made her wretched . 
that , combined with his fear of his brother , and his sense of his unkindness , it threw him into a fever . 
That was before he came to me , but the recollection of it is oppressive to him even now . 
Did he say anything to you about King Charles the First , child ? 'Yes , aunt . 
'Ah ! said my aunt , rubbing her nose as if she were a little vexed . 
'That's his allegorical way of expressing it . 
He connects his illness with great disturbance and agitation , naturally , and that's the figure , or the simile , or whatever it's called , which he chooses to use . 
And why shouldn't he , if he thinks proper ! I said 'Certainly , aunt . 
'It's not a business like way of speaking , said my aunt , 'nor a worldly way . 
I am aware of that and that's the reason why I insist upon it , that there shan't be a word about it in his Memorial . 
'Is it a Memorial about his own history that he is writing , aunt ? 'Yes , child , said my aunt , rubbing her nose again . 
'He is memorializing the Lord Chancellor , or the Lord Somebody or other one of those people , at all events , who are paid to be memorialized about his affairs . 
I suppose it will go in , one of these days . 
He hasn't been able to draw it up yet , without introducing that mode of expressing himself but it don't signify it keeps him employed . 
'I say again , said my aunt , 'nobody knows what that man's mind is except myself and he's the most amenable and friendly creature in existence . 
If he likes to fly a kite sometimes , what of that ! Franklin used to fly a kite . 
He was a Quaker , or something of that sort , if I am not mistaken . 
And a Quaker flying a kite is a much more ridiculous object than anybody else . 
I believe that I began to know that there was something about my aunt , notwithstanding her many eccentricities and odd humours , to be honoured and trusted in . 
, she seemed to me to command more of my respect , if not less of my fear . 
At length the reply from Mr. Murdstone came , and my aunt informed me , to my infinite terror , that he was coming to speak to her herself on the next day . 
MY aunt was a little more imperious and stern than usual , but I observed no other token of her preparing herself to receive the visitor so much dreaded by me . 
'Go along with you ! cried my aunt , shaking her head and her fist at the window . 
'You have no business there . 
, was Mr. Murdstone himself . 
'I don't care who it is ! cried my aunt , still shaking her head and gesticulating anything but welcome from the bow window . 
'I won't be trespassed upon . 
Go away ! Janet , turn him round . 
'Shall I go away , aunt ? I asked , trembling . 
'No , sir , said my aunt . 
'Certainly not ! With which she pushed me into a corner near her , and fenced Me in with a chair , as if it were a prison or a bar of justice . 
This position I continued to occupy during the whole interview , and from it I now saw Mr. and Miss Murdstone enter the room . 
'Oh ! said my aunt , 'I was not aware at first to whom I had the pleasure of objecting . 
But I don't allow anybody to ride over that turf . 
I don't allow anybody to do it . 
'Your regulation is rather awkward to strangers , said Miss Murdstone . 
'Is it ! said my aunt . 
Mr. Murdstone seemed afraid of a renewal of hostilities , and interposing began 'Miss Trotwood ! 'I beg your pardon , observed my aunt with a keen look . 
'You'll excuse my saying , sir , returned my aunt , 'that I think it would have been a much better and happier thing if you had left that poor child alone . 
'No doubt ! returned Miss Murdstone , though , I thought , not with a very ready or gracious assent . 
'And it certainly might have been , as you say , a better and happier thing for my brother if he had never entered into such a marriage . 
I have always been of that opinion . 
'I have no doubt you have , said my aunt . 
'Janet , ringing the bell , 'my compliments to Mr. Dick , and beg him to come down . 
Until he came , my aunt sat perfectly upright and stiff , frowning at the wall . 
When he came , my aunt performed the ceremony of introduction . 
An old and intimate friend . 
On whose judgement , said my aunt , with emphasis , as an admonition to Mr. Dick , who was biting his forefinger and looking rather foolish , 'I rely . 
Mr. Dick took his finger out of his mouth , on this hint , and stood among the group , with a grave and attentive expression of face . 
'To answer it in person , however inconvenient the journey , pursued Mr. Murdstone , 'rather than by letter . 
'Jane Murdstone , said her brother , 'have the goodness not to interrupt me . 
This unhappy boy , Miss Trotwood , has been the occasion of much domestic trouble and uneasiness both during the lifetime of my late dear wife , and since . 
He has a sullen , rebellious spirit a violent temper and an untoward , intractable disposition . 
Both my sister and myself have endeavoured to correct his vices , but ineffectually . 
'Strong ! said my aunt , shortly . 
'But not at all too strong for the facts , returned Miss Murdstone . 
'Ha ! said my aunt . 
I am responsible for them to myself , I act upon them , and I say no more about them . 
I wish to set before you , honourably , the exact consequences so far as they are within my knowledge of your abetting him in this appeal . 
'But about the respectable business first , said my aunt . 
'Or if the poor child , his mother , had been alive , he would still have gone into the respectable business , would he ? said my aunt . 
'I believe , said Mr. Murdstone , with an inclination of his head , 'that Clara would have disputed nothing which myself and my sister Jane Murdstone were agreed was for the best . 
Miss Murdstone confirmed this with an audible murmur . 
'Humph ! said my aunt . 
'Good Lord , man , there's no occasion to say that . 
'Your late wife , sir , was a most unworldly , most unhappy , most unfortunate baby , returned my aunt , shaking her head at him . 
And now , what have you got to say next ? 'Merely this , Miss Trotwood , he returned . 
'I am here to take David back to take him back unconditionally , to dispose of him as I think proper , and to deal with him as I think right . 
I am not here to make any promise , or give any pledge to anybody . 
You may possibly have some idea , Miss Trotwood , of abetting him in his running away , and in his complaints to you . 
Your manner , which I must say does not seem intended to propitiate , induces me to think it possible . 
I cannot trifle , or be trifled with . 
I am here , for the first and last time , to take him away . 
To this address , my aunt had listened with the closest attention , sitting perfectly upright , with her hands folded on one knee , and looking grimly on the speaker . 
'And what does the boy say ? said my aunt . 
'Are you ready to go , David ? I answered no , and entreated her not to let me go . 
I said that neither Mr. nor Miss Murdstone had ever liked me , or had ever been kind to me . 
That they had made my mama , who always loved me dearly , unhappy about me , and that I knew it well , and that Peggotty knew it . 
I said that I had been more miserable than I thought anybody could believe , who only knew how young I was . 
Dick , said my aunt triumphantly , 'give me your hand , for your common sense is invaluable . 
Having shaken it with great cordiality , she pulled me towards her and said to Mr. Murdstone 'You can go when you like I'll take my chance with the boy . 
If he's all you say he is , at least I can do as much for him then , as you have done . 
But I don't believe a word of it . 
'Miss Trotwood , rejoined Mr. Murdstone , shrugging his shoulders , as he rose , 'if you were a gentleman 'Bah ! Stuff and nonsense ! said my aunt . 
'Don't talk to me ! 'How exquisitely polite ! exclaimed Miss Murdstone , rising . 
He was made of sweetness . 
'I never heard anything like this person in my life ! exclaimed Miss Murdstone . 
Miss Betsey , without taking the least notice of the interruption , continued to address herself to Mr. Murdstone as if there had been no such thing . 
Murdstone , she said , shaking her finger at him , 'you were a tyrant to the simple baby , and you broke her heart . 
There is the truth for your comfort , however you like it . 
And you and your instruments may make the most of it . 
Aye , aye ! you needn't wince ! said my aunt . 
'I know it's true without that . 
He had stood by the door , all this while , observant of her with a smile upon his face , though his black eyebrows were heavily contracted . 
'Good day , sir , said my aunt , 'and good bye ! Good day to you , too , ma'am , said my aunt , turning suddenly upon his sister . 
I then shook hands with Mr. Dick , who shook hands with me a great many times , and hailed this happy close of the proceedings with repeated bursts of laughter . 
'You'll consider yourself guardian , jointly with me , of this child , Mr. Dick , said my aunt . 
'I shall be delighted , said Mr. Dick , 'to be the guardian of David's son . 
'Very good , returned my aunt , 'that's settled . 
I have been thinking , do you know , Mr. Dick , that I might call him Trotwood ? 'Certainly , certainly . 
Call him Trotwood , certainly , said Mr. Dick . 
'Trotwood Copperfield , you mean , returned my aunt . 
'Yes , to be sure . 
Trotwood Copperfield , said Mr. Dick , a little abashed . 
should be marked in the same way . 
Thus I began my new life , in a new name , and with everything new about me . 
Now that the state of doubt was over , I felt , for many days , like one in a dream . 
I never thought that I had a curious couple of guardians , in my aunt and Mr. Dick . 
I never thought of anything about myself , distinctly . 
No one has ever raised that curtain since . 
I have lifted it for a moment , even in this narrative , with a reluctant hand , and dropped it gladly . 
Whether it lasted for a year , or more , or less , I do not know . 
I only know that it was , and ceased to be and that I have written , and there I leave it . 
It was quite an affecting sight , I used to think , to see him with the kite when it was up a great height in the air . 
He never looked so serene as he did then . 
While I advanced in friendship and intimacy with Mr. Dick , I did not go backward in the favour of his staunch friend , my aunt . 
'Trot , said my aunt one evening , when the backgammon board was placed as usual for herself and Mr. Dick , 'we must not forget your education . 
This was my only subject of anxiety , and I felt quite delighted by her referring to it . 
'Should you like to go to school at Canterbury ? said my aunt . 
I replied that I should like it very much , as it was so near her . 
'Good , said my aunt . 
'Good , said my aunt again . 
'Janet , hire the grey pony and chaise tomorrow morning at ten o'clock , and pack up Master Trotwood's clothes tonight . 
We parted at the garden gate in a most affectionate manner , and Mr. Dick did not go into the house until my aunt had driven me out of sight of it . 
She was much gratified and both her hands being occupied , patted me on the head with her whip . 
'Is it a large school , aunt ? I asked . 
'Why , I don't know , said my aunt . 
'We are going to Mr. Wickfield's first . 
'Does he keep a school ? I asked . 
'No , Trot , said my aunt . 
It was quite spotless in its cleanliness . 
The low arched door then opened , and the face came out . 
'Is Mr. Wickfield at home , Uriah Heep ? said my aunt . 
Wickfield's at home , ma'am , said Uriah Heep , 'if you'll please to walk in there' pointing with his long hand to the room he meant . 
But it was stationary and as the gentleman advanced into the light , I saw that he was some years older than when he had had his picture painted . 
'Miss Betsey Trotwood , said the gentleman , 'pray walk in . 
I was engaged for a moment , but you'll excuse my being busy . 
I have but one in life . 
Miss Betsey thanked him , and we went into his room , which was furnished as an office , with books , papers , tin boxes , and so forth . 
'I have not come for any law . 
'That's right , ma'am , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'You had better come for anything else . 
His hair was quite white now , though his eyebrows were still black . 
He had a very agreeable face , and , I thought , was handsome . 
of the plumage on the breast of a swan . 
'This is my nephew , said my aunt . 
'Wasn't aware you had one , Miss Trotwood , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'My grand nephew , that is to say , observed my aunt . 
'Wasn't aware you had a grand nephew , I give you my word , said Mr. Wickfield . 
Now tell me where that school is , and what it is , and all about it . 
'Before I can advise you properly , said Mr. Wickfield 'the old question , you know . 
What's your motive in this ? 'Deuce take the man ! exclaimed my aunt . 
'Always fishing for motives , when they're on the surface ! Why , to make the child happy and useful . 
'It must be a mixed motive , I think , said Mr. Wickfield , shaking his head and smiling incredulously . 
'A mixed fiddlestick , returned my aunt . 
'You claim to have one plain motive in all you do yourself . 
'Other people have dozens , scores , hundreds . 
However , that's beside the question . 
The best school ? Whatever the motive , you want the best ? My aunt nodded assent . 
'At the best we have , said Mr. Wickfield , considering , 'your nephew couldn't board just now . 
'But he could board somewhere else , I suppose ? suggested my aunt . 
Mr. Wickfield thought I could . 
It so happened that this chair was opposite a narrow passage , which ended in the little circular room where I had seen Uriah Heep's pale face looking out of the window . 
At length , much to my relief , my aunt and Mr. Wickfield came back , after a pretty long absence . 
'It's very unfortunate , said my aunt . 
'I don't know what to do , Trot . 
'It does happen unfortunately , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'But I'll tell you what you can do , Miss Trotwood . 
'What's that ? inquired my aunt . 
'Leave your nephew here , for the present . 
He won't disturb me at all . 
It's a capital house for study . 
As quiet as a monastery , and almost as roomy . 
My aunt evidently liked the offer , though she was delicate of accepting it . 
So did I. 'Come , Miss Trotwood , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'This is the way out of the difficulty . 
It's only a temporary arrangement , you know . 
If it don't act well , or don't quite accord with our mutual convenience , he can easily go to the right about . 
There will be time to find some better place for him in the meanwhile . 
'You shall not be oppressed by the receipt of favours , Miss Trotwood . 
You may pay for him , if you like . 
We won't be hard about terms , but you shall pay if you will . 
'On that understanding , said my aunt , 'though it doesn't lessen the real obligation , I shall be very glad to leave him . 
'Then come and see my little housekeeper , said Mr. Wickfield . 
It was a prettily furnished room , with a piano and some lively furniture in red and green , and some flowers . 
On everything there was the same air of retirement and cleanliness that marked the house outside . 
Mr. Wickfield tapped at a door in a corner of the panelled wall , and a girl of about my own age came quickly out and kissed him . 
On her face , I saw immediately the placid and sweet expression of the lady whose picture had looked at me downstairs . 
It seemed to my imagination as if the portrait had grown womanly , and the original remained a child . 
This was his little housekeeper , his daughter Agnes , Mr. Wickfield said . 
When I heard how he said it , and saw how he held her hand , I guessed what the one motive of his life was . 
She had a little basket trifle hanging at her side , with keys in it and she looked as staid and as discreet a housekeeper as the old house could have . 
I cannot call to mind where or when , in my childhood , I had seen a stained glass window in a church . 
Nor do I recollect its subject . 
My aunt was as happy as I was , in the arrangement made for me and we went down to the drawing room again , well pleased and gratified . 
So we were left to take leave of one another without any restraint . 
She told me that everything would be arranged for me by Mr. Wickfield , and that I should want for nothing , and gave me the kindest words and the best advice . 
'Never , said my aunt , 'be mean in anything never be false never be cruel . 
Avoid those three vices , Trot , and I can always be hopeful of you . 
I promised , as well as I could , that I would not abuse her kindness or forget her admonition . 
'The pony's at the door , said my aunt , 'and I am off ! Stay here . 
With these words she embraced me hastily , and went out of the room , shutting the door after her . 
By five o'clock , which was Mr. Wickfield's dinner hour , I had mustered up my spirits again , and was ready for my knife and fork . 
The cloth was only laid for us two but Agnes was waiting in the drawing room before dinner , went down with her father , and sat opposite to him at table . 
I doubted whether he could have dined without her . 
I thought he would have missed its usual flavour , if it had been put there for him by any other hands . 
He was , for the most part , gay and cheerful with us but sometimes his eyes rested on her , and he fell into a brooding state , and was silent . 
She always observed this quickly , I thought , and always roused him with a question or caress . 
Then he came out of his meditation , and drank more wine . 
Then I went to bed too . 
It was such an uncomfortable hand , that , when I went to my room , it was still cold and wet upon my memory . 
CHAPTER I AM A NEW BOY IN MORE SENSES THAN ONE Next morning , after breakfast , I entered on school life again . 
When she had finished , and we were going out to the schoolroom , I was much surprised to hear Mr. Wickfield , in bidding her good morning , address her as 'Mrs . 
Strong' and I was wondering could she be Doctor Strong's son's wife , or could she be Mrs. Doctor Strong , when Doctor Strong himself unconsciously enlightened me . 
The busy people achieve their full share of mischief in the world , you may rely upon it . 
'Perhaps not , said Mr. Wickfield 'and you bring me back to the question , with an apology for digressing . 
No , I have not been able to dispose of Mr. Jack Maldon yet . 
I believe , he said this with some hesitation , 'I penetrate your motive , and it makes the thing more difficult . 
'My motive , returned Doctor Strong , 'is to make some suitable provision for a cousin , and an old playfellow , of Annie's . 
'Yes , I know , said Mr. Wickfield 'at home or abroad . 
'Aye ! replied the Doctor , apparently wondering why he emphasized those words so much . 
'Your own expression , you know , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'Surely , the Doctor answered . 
'One or other ? Have you no choice ? asked Mr. Wickfield . 
'No , returned the Doctor . 
'No motive , said Mr. Wickfield , 'for meaning abroad , and not at home ? 'No , returned the Doctor . 
'I am bound to believe you , and of course I do believe you , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'It might have simplified my office very much , if I had known it before . 
But I confess I entertained another impression . 
have ever since , by association , been symbolical to me of silence and retirement . 
'A new boy , young gentlemen , said the Doctor 'Trotwood Copperfield . 
One Adams , who was the head boy , then stepped out of his place and welcomed me . 
As I went up to my airy old room , the grave shadow of the staircase seemed to fall upon my doubts and fears , and to make the past more indistinct . 
and went down , hopeful of becoming a passable sort of boy yet . 
Agnes was in the drawing room , waiting for her father , who was detained by someone in his office . 
She met me with her pleasant smile , and asked me how I liked the school . 
I told her I should like it very much , I hoped but I was a little strange to it at first . 
'You have never been to school , I said , 'have you ? 'Oh yes ! Every day . 
'Ah , but you mean here , at your own home ? 'Papa couldn't spare me to go anywhere else , she answered , smiling and shaking her head . 
'His housekeeper must be in his house , you know . 
'He is very fond of you , I am sure , I said . 
She nodded 'Yes , and went to the door to listen for his coming up , that she might meet him on the stairs . 
But , as he was not there , she came back again . 
'Mama has been dead ever since I was born , she said , in her quiet way . 
'I only know her picture , downstairs . 
I saw you looking at it yesterday . 
Did you think whose it was ? I told her yes , because it was so like herself . 
'Papa says so , too , said Agnes , pleased . 
'Hark ! That's papa now ! Her bright calm face lighted up with pleasure as she went to meet him , and as they came in , hand in hand . 
He greeted me cordially and told me I should certainly be happy under Doctor Strong , who was one of the gentlest of men . 
'There may be some , perhaps I don't know that there are who abuse his kindness , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'Never be one of those , Trotwood , in anything . 
He is the least suspicious of mankind and whether that's a merit , or whether it's a blemish , it deserves consideration in all dealings with the Doctor , great or small . 
'I am but this moment quit of Mr. Maldon , said his master . 
'Yes , sir , returned Uriah 'but Mr. Maldon has come back , and he begs the favour of a word . 
'Doctor Strong , of course , returned the other 'I call him the old Doctor it's all the same , you know . 
'I don't know , returned Mr. Wickfield . 
'Well , Doctor Strong , said the other 'Doctor Strong was of the same mind , I believed . 
Therefore , I thought I'd come back and say , that the sooner I am off the better . 
When a plunge is to be made into the water , it's of no use lingering on the bank . 
'There shall be as little lingering as possible , in your case , Mr. Maldon , you may depend upon it , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'Thank'ee , said the other . 
I suppose Annie would only have to say to the old Doctor 'Meaning that Mrs. Strong would only have to say to her husband do I follow you ? said Mr. Wickfield . 
'And why as a matter of course , Mr. Maldon ? asked Mr. Wickfield , sedately eating his dinner . 
'Why , because Annie's a charming young girl , and the old Doctor Doctor Strong , I mean is not quite a charming young boy , said Mr. Jack Maldon , laughing . 
'No offence to anybody , Mr. Wickfield . 
I only mean that I suppose some compensation is fair and reasonable in that sort of marriage . 
'Compensation to the lady , sir ? asked Mr. Wickfield gravely . 
'To the lady , sir , Mr. Jack Maldon answered , laughing . 
'Have you dined ? asked Mr. Wickfield , with a motion of his hand towards the table . 
I am going to dine , said Mr. Maldon , 'with my cousin Annie . 
Good bye ! Mr. Wickfield , without rising , looked after him thoughtfully as he went out . 
He was rather a shallow sort of young gentleman , I thought , with a handsome face , a rapid utterance , and a confident , bold air . 
And this was the first I ever saw of Mr. Jack Maldon whom I had not expected to see so soon , when I heard the Doctor speak of him that morning . 
When we had dined , we went upstairs again , where everything went on exactly as on the previous day . 
Agnes set the glasses and decanters in the same corner , and Mr. Wickfield sat down to drink , and drank a good deal . 
Agnes played the piano to him , sat by him , and worked and talked , and played some games at dominoes with me . 
, and what was the best way to learn and understand them . 
I see her , with her modest , orderly , placid manner , and I hear her beautiful calm voice , as I write these words . 
The influence for all good , which she came to exercise over me at a later time , begins already to descend upon my breast . 
The time having come for her withdrawal for the night , and she having left us , I gave Mr. Wickfield my hand , preparatory to going away myself . 
But he checked me and said 'Should you like to stay with us , Trotwood , or to go elsewhere ? 'To stay , I answered , quickly . 
'You are sure ? 'If you please . 
If I may ! 'Why , it's but a dull life that we lead here , boy , I am afraid , he said . 
'Not more dull for me than Agnes , sir . 
Not dull at all ! 'Than Agnes , he repeated , walking slowly to the great chimney piece , and leaning against it . 
, until his eyes were bloodshot . 
Not that I could see them now , for they were cast down , and shaded by his hand but I had noticed them a little while before . 
'Now I wonder , he muttered , 'whether my Agnes tires of me . 
When should I ever tire of her ! But that's different , that's quite different . 
He was musing , not speaking to me so I remained quiet . 
'A dull old house , he said , 'and a monotonous life but I must have her near me . 
I must keep her near me . 
'If it is miserable to bear , when she is here , he said , 'what would it be , and she away ? No , no , no . 
At length he aroused himself , and looked about the room until his eyes encountered mine . 
'Stay with us , Trotwood , eh ? he said in his usual manner , and as if he were answering something I had just said . 
'I am glad of it . 
You are company to us both . 
It is wholesome to have you here . 
Wholesome for me , wholesome for Agnes , wholesome perhaps for all of us . 
'I am sure it is for me , sir , I said . 
'I am so glad to be here . 
'That's a fine fellow ! said Mr. Wickfield . 
'As long as you are glad to be here , you shall stay here . 
'You are working late tonight , Uriah , says I. 'Yes , Master Copperfield , says Uriah . 
'I am not doing office work , Master Copperfield , said Uriah . 
'What work , then ? I asked . 
'I am improving my legal knowledge , Master Copperfield , said Uriah . 
'I am going through Tidd's Practice . 
'I suppose you are quite a great lawyer ? I said , after looking at him for some time . 
'Me , Master Copperfield ? said Uriah . 
'Oh , no ! I'm a very umble person . 
'I am well aware that I am the umblest person going , said Uriah Heep , modestly 'let the other be where he may . 
My mother is likewise a very umble person . 
We live in a numble abode , Master Copperfield , but have much to be thankful for . 
My father's former calling was umble . 
'What is he now ? I asked . 
'He is a partaker of glory at present , Master Copperfield , said Uriah Heep . 
'But we have much to be thankful for . 
'Since a year after my father's death . 
Wickfield is a most excellent man , Master Copperfield , said Uriah . 
'If you have known him long , you know it , I am sure , much better than I can inform you . 
I replied that I was certain he was but that I had not known him long myself , though he was a friend of my aunt's . 
'Oh , indeed , Master Copperfield , said Uriah . 
'A sweet lady , Master Copperfield ! said Uriah Heep . 
'But I am sure you must have . 
'Everybody must have , I returned . 
I said I should be glad to come . 
'Oh , indeed ! exclaimed Uriah . 
I was awkward enough in their games , and backward enough in their studies but custom would improve me in the first respect , I hoped , and hard work in the second . 
Accordingly , I went to work very hard , both in play and in earnest , and gained great commendation . 
Doctor Strong's was an excellent school as different from Mr. Creakle's as good is from evil . 
We all felt that we had a part in the management of the place , and in sustaining its character and dignity . 
ready to swarm the Doctor out of house and home . 
He considered that it might be done in one thousand six hundred and forty nine years , counting from the Doctor's last , or sixty second , birthday . 
Outside his own domain , and unprotected , he was a very sheep for the shearers . 
He would have taken his gaiters off his legs , to give away . 
It was very pleasant to see the Doctor with his pretty young wife . 
He had a fatherly , benignant way of showing his fondness for her , which seemed in itself to express a good man . 
I often saw them walking in the garden where the peaches were , and I sometimes had a nearer observation of them in the study or the parlour . 
, that never wore off . 
When she came there of an evening , she always shrunk from accepting his escort home , and ran away with me instead . 
And sometimes , as we were running gaily across the Cathedral yard together , expecting to meet nobody , we would meet Mr. Jack Maldon , who was always surprised to see us . 
Mrs. Strong's mama was a lady I took great delight in . 
I observed the Old Soldier not to adopt the name disrespectfully to pretty good advantage , on a night which is made memorable to me by something else I shall relate . 
It happened to be the Doctor's birthday , too . 
And now , in the evening , Mr. Wickfield , Agnes , and I , went to have tea with him in his private capacity . 
Mr. Jack Maldon was there , before us . 
Mrs. Strong , dressed in white , with cherry coloured ribbons , was playing the piano , when we went in and he was leaning over her to turn the leaves . 
The clear red and white of her complexion was not so blooming and flower like as usual , I thought , when she turned round but she looked very pretty , Wonderfully pretty . 
Allow me to wish you many happy returns . 
'I thank you , ma'am , replied the Doctor . 
'Many , many , many , happy returns , said the Old Soldier . 
'Not only for your own sake , but for Annie's , and John Maldon's , and many other people's . 
'My dear mama , said Mrs. Strong , 'never mind that now . 
'Annie , don't be absurd , returned her mother . 
'Annie ? Come ! 'Yes , John , returned the Soldier . 
'Virtually , an old married woman . 
It is well for you , John , that your cousin is the wife of the Doctor . 
You have found in him an influential and kind friend , who will be kinder yet , I venture to predict , if you deserve it . 
I have no false pride . 
I never hesitate to admit , frankly , that there are some members of our family who want a friend . 
You were one yourself , before your cousin's influence raised up one for you . 
The Doctor , in the goodness of his heart , waved his hand as if to make light of it , and save Mr. Jack Maldon from any further reminder . 
I call it quite my monomania , it is such a subject of mine . 
You are a blessing to us . 
You really are a Boon , you know . 
'Nonsense , nonsense , said the Doctor . 
'No , no , I beg your pardon , retorted the Old Soldier . 
'With nobody present , but our dear and confidential friend Mr. Wickfield , I cannot consent to be put down . 
I shall begin to assert the privileges of a mother in law , if you go on like that , and scold you . 
I am perfectly honest and outspoken . 
What I am saying , is what I said when you first overpowered me with surprise you remember how surprised I was ? by proposing for Annie . 
'Aye , aye , returned the Doctor , good humouredly . 
'But I DO mind , said the Old Soldier , laying her fan upon his lips . 
I recall these things that I may be contradicted if I am wrong . 
Well ! Then I spoke to Annie , and I told her what had happened . 
I said , My dear , here's Doctor Strong has positively been and made you the subject of a handsome declaration and an offer . 
Then , my dear , I said , you may rely upon it , it's free . 
At all events , my love , said I , Doctor Strong is in an agitated state of mind , and must be answered . 
He cannot be kept in his present state of suspense . 
I used the word at the time , and I have used it again , today . 
If I have any merit it is consistency . 
The daughter had sat quite silent and still during this speech , with her eyes fixed on the ground her cousin standing near her , and looking on the ground too . 
Since you ask me , my love , I reply that I have not . 
I complain that you really are a little unnatural towards your own family and , as it is of no use complaining to you . 
I mean to complain to your husband . 
Now , my dear Doctor , do look at that silly wife of yours . 
As the Doctor turned his kind face , with its smile of simplicity and gentleness , towards her , she drooped her head more . 
I noticed that Mr. Wickfield looked at her steadily . 
'Annie , my dear , said the Doctor . 
It robbed me of a pleasure . 
'Almost the very words I said to her ! exclaimed her mother . 
'I shall be glad if you will , returned the Doctor . 
'Well , then , I will ! said the Old Soldier . 
, and returned triumphantly to her former station . 
Mrs. Strong was a very pretty singer as I knew , who often heard her singing by herself . 
But , whether she was afraid of singing before people , or was out of voice that evening , it was certain that she couldn't sing at all . 
Mrs. Strong had declined to play , on the ground of not feeling very well and her cousin Maldon had excused himself because he had some packing to do . 
When he had done it , however , he returned , and they sat together , talking , on the sofa . 
From time to time she came and looked over the Doctor's hand , and told him what to play . 
At supper , we were hardly so gay . 
Everyone appeared to feel that a parting of that sort was an awkward thing , and that the nearer it approached , the more awkward it was . 
Mr. Jack Maldon tried to be very talkative , but was not at his ease , and made matters worse . 
And they were not improved , as it appeared to me , by the Old Soldier who continually recalled passages of Mr. Jack Maldon's youth . 
The winds you are going to tempt , have wafted thousands upon thousands to fortune , and brought thousands upon thousands happily back . 
A young man really well deserves constant support and patronage , looking at the Doctor , 'who makes such sacrifices . 
'Time will go fast with you , Mr. Jack Maldon , pursued the Doctor , 'and fast with all of us . 
Some of us can hardly expect , perhaps , in the natural course of things , to greet you on your return . 
The next best thing is to hope to do it , and that's my case . 
I shall not weary you with good advice . 
You have long had a good model before you , in your cousin Annie . 
Imitate her virtues as nearly as you can . 
Mrs. Markleham fanned herself , and shook her head . 
'Farewell , Mr. Jack , said the Doctor , standing up on which we all stood up . 
In the midst of these remarks , Mrs. Markleham cried 'Where's Annie ? No Annie was there and when they called to her , no Annie replied . 
But all pressing out of the room , in a crowd , to see what was the matter , we found her lying on the hall floor . 
'Annie , my dear , said her mother , doing something to her dress . 
'See here ! You have lost a bow . 
Will anybody be so good as find a ribbon a cherry coloured ribbon ? It was the one she had worn at her bosom . 
We all looked for it I myself looked everywhere , I am certain but nobody could find it . 
'Do you recollect where you had it last , Annie ? said her mother . 
Nevertheless , it was looked for again , and still not found . 
She entreated that there might be no more searching but it was still sought for , in a desultory way , until she was quite well , and the company took their departure . 
We walked very slowly home , Mr. Wickfield , Agnes , and I Agnes and I admiring the moonlight , and Mr. Wickfield scarcely raising his eyes from the ground . 
When we , at last , reached our own door , Agnes discovered that she had left her little reticule behind . 
Delighted to be of any service to her , I ran back to fetch it . 
I went into the supper room where it had been left , which was deserted and dark . 
The Doctor was sitting in his easy chair by the fireside , and his young wife was on a stool at his feet . 
The Doctor , with a complacent smile , was reading aloud some manuscript explanation or statement of a theory out of that interminable Dictionary , and she was looking up at him . 
But with such a face as I never saw . 
The eyes were wide open , and her brown hair fell in two rich clusters on her shoulders , and on her white dress , disordered by the want of the lost ribbon . 
Penitence , humiliation , shame , pride , love , and trustfulness I see them all and in them all , I see that horror of I don't know what . 
My entrance , and my saying what I wanted , roused her . 
that she was in his confidence that night . 
It made a great impression on me , and I remembered it a long time afterwards as I shall have occasion to narrate when the time comes . 
On my being settled at Doctor Strong's I wrote to her again , detailing my happy condition and prospects . 
To these communications Peggotty replied as promptly , if not as concisely , as a merchant's clerk . 
were exhausted in the attempt to write what she felt on the subject of my journey . 
Four sides of incoherent and interjectional beginnings of sentences , that had no end , except blots , were inadequate to afford her any relief . 
The notice was too short after so long a prepossession the other way . 
There was no other news in Peggotty's letters . 
and he sent his duty , and my little bedroom was always ready for me . 
Mr. Peggotty was well , and Ham was well , and Mrs. . 
Gummidge was but poorly , and little Em'ly wouldn't send her love , but said that Peggotty might send it , if she liked . 
All this intelligence I dutifully imparted to my aunt , only reserving to myself the mention of little Em'ly , to whom I instinctively felt that she would not very tenderly incline . 
But , finding me well employed , and bearing a good character , and hearing on all hands that I rose fast in the school , she soon discontinued these visits . 
Mr. Dick was very partial to gingerbread . 
I found on further investigation that this was so , or at least there was an agreement between him and my aunt that he should account to her for all his disbursements . 
As he had no idea of deceiving her , and always desired to please her , he was thus made chary of launching into expense . 
'I thought nothing would have frightened her , he said , 'for she's here he whispered softly , 'don't mention it the wisest and most wonderful of women . 
Having said which , he drew back , to observe the effect which this description of her made upon me . 
'The first time he came , said Mr. Dick , 'was let me see sixteen hundred and forty nine was the date of King Charles's execution . 
I think you said sixteen hundred and forty nine ? 'Yes , sir . 
'I don't know how it can be , said Mr. Dick , sorely puzzled and shaking his head . 
'I don't think I am as old as that . 
'Was it in that year that the man appeared , sir ? I asked . 
'Why , really' said Mr. Dick , 'I don't see how it can have been in that year , Trotwood . 
Did you get that date out of history ? 'Yes , sir . 
'I suppose history never lies , does it ? said Mr. Dick , with a gleam of hope . 
'Oh dear , no , sir ! I replied , most decisively . 
I was ingenuous and young , and I thought so . 
'I can't make it out , said Mr. Dick , shaking his head . 
'There's something wrong , somewhere . 
However , it was very soon after the mistake was made of putting some of the trouble out of King Charles's head into my head , that the man first came . 
I was walking out with Miss Trotwood after tea , just at dark , and there he was , close to our house . 
'Walking about ? I inquired . 
'Walking about ? repeated Mr. Dick . 
'Let me see , I must recollect a bit . 
N no , no he was not walking about . 
I asked , as the shortest way to get at it , what he WAS doing . 
'Well , he wasn't there at all , said Mr. Dick , 'until he came up behind her , and whispered . 
, is the most extraordinary thing ! 'HAS he been hiding ever since ? I asked . 
'To be sure he has , retorted Mr. Dick , nodding his head gravely . 
'Never came out , till last night ! We were walking last night , and he came up behind her again , and I knew him again . 
'And did he frighten my aunt again ? 'All of a shiver , said Mr. Dick , counterfeiting that affection and making his teeth chatter . 
There he always appeared , however , grey headed , laughing , and happy and he never had anything more to tell of the man who could frighten my aunt . 
These Wednesdays were the happiest days of Mr. Dick's life they were far from being the least happy of mine . 
He could cut oranges into such devices as none of us had an idea of . 
He could make a boat out of anything , from a skewer upwards . 
He could turn cramp bones into chessmen fashion Roman chariots from old court cards make spoked wheels out of cotton reels , and bird cages of old wire . 
But he was greatest of all , perhaps , in the articles of string and straw with which we were all persuaded he could do anything that could be done by hands . 
Mr. Dick's renown was not long confined to us . 
, and so became more and more familiar by degrees , until , at last , he would come into the school and wait . 
This veneration Mr. Dick extended to the Doctor , whom he thought the most subtle and accomplished philosopher of any age . 
Agnes was one of Mr. Dick's friends , very soon and in often coming to the house , he made acquaintance with Uriah . 
But I felt it quite an affront to be supposed proud , and said I only wanted to be asked . 
I said I would mention it to Mr. Wickfield , and if he approved , as I had no doubt he would , I would come with pleasure . 
So , at six o'clock that evening , which was one of the early office evenings , I announced myself as ready , to Uriah . 
'Mother will be proud , indeed , he said , as we walked away together . 
'Or she would be proud , if it wasn't sinful , Master Copperfield . 
'Yet you didn't mind supposing I was proud this morning , I returned . 
'Oh dear , no , Master Copperfield ! returned Uriah . 
'Oh , believe me , no ! Such a thought never came into my head ! I shouldn't have deemed it at all proud if you had thought US too umble for you . 
Because we are so very umble . 
'Have you been studying much law lately ? I asked , to change the subject . 
'Oh , Master Copperfield , he said , with an air of self denial , 'my reading is hardly to be called study . 
I have passed an hour or two in the evening , sometimes , with Mr. Tidd . 
'Rather hard , I suppose ? said I. 'He is hard to me sometimes , returned Uriah . 
'But I don't know what he might be to a gifted person . 
'Would you like to be taught Latin ? I said briskly . 
'I will teach it you with pleasure , as I learn it . 
'Oh , thank you , Master Copperfield , he answered , shaking his head . 
'I am sure it's very kind of you to make the offer , but I am much too umble to accept it . 
There are people enough to tread upon me in my lowly state , without my doing outrage to their feelings by possessing learning . 
A person like myself had better not aspire . 
'I think you are wrong , Uriah , I said . 
'I dare say there are several things that I could teach you , if you would like to learn them . 
'Oh , I don't doubt that , Master Copperfield , he answered 'not in the least . 
But not being umble yourself , you don't judge well , perhaps , for them that are . 
I won't provoke my betters with knowledge , thank you . 
It was a perfectly decent room , half parlour and half kitchen , but not at all a snug room . 
The tea things were set upon the table , and the kettle was boiling on the hob . 
I don't remember that any individual object had a bare , pinched , spare look but I do remember that the whole place had . 
It was perhaps a part of Mrs. Heep's humility , that she still wore weeds . 
Notwithstanding the lapse of time that had occurred since Mr. Heep's decease , she still wore weeds . 
I think there was some compromise in the cap but otherwise she was as weedy as in the early days of her mourning . 
'This is a day to be remembered , my Uriah , I am sure , said Mrs. Heep , making the tea , 'when Master Copperfield pays us a visit . 
'I said you'd think so , mother , said Uriah . 
'If I could have wished father to remain among us for any reason , said Mrs. Heep , 'it would have been , that he might have known his company this afternoon . 
I felt embarrassed by these compliments but I was sensible , too , of being entertained as an honoured guest , and I thought Mrs. Heep an agreeable woman . 
'My Uriah , said Mrs. Heep , 'has looked forward to this , sir , a long while . 
He had his fears that our umbleness stood in the way , and I joined in them myself . 
Umble we are , umble we have been , umble we shall ever be , said Mrs. Heep . 
'I am sure you have no occasion to be so , ma'am , I said , 'unless you like . 
'Thank you , sir , retorted Mrs. Heep . 
'We know our station and are thankful in it . 
There was nothing particularly choice there , to be sure but I took the will for the deed , and felt that they were very attentive . 
They did just what they liked with me and wormed things out of me that I had no desire to tell , with a certainty I blush to think of . 
the more especially , as in my juvenile frankness , I took some credit to myself for being so confidential and felt that I was quite the patron of my two respectful entertainers . 
They were very fond of one another that was certain . 
, they began about Mr. Wickfield and Agnes . 
The ball itself was always changing too . 
, I find a young but valued friend turn up , who is connected with the most eventful period of my life I may say , with the turning point of my existence . 
'Thank you , said Mr. Micawber , waving his hand as of old , and settling his chin in his shirt collar . 
She will be rejoiced , Copperfield , to renew her acquaintance with one who has proved himself in all respects a worthy minister at the sacred altar of friendship . 
I said I should be delighted to see her . 
'You are very good , said Mr. Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber then smiled , settled his chin again , and looked about him . 
I shall esteem it an honour to be presented . 
I could do no less , under these circumstances , than make Mr. Micawber known to Uriah Heep and his mother which I accordingly did . 
As they abased themselves before him , Mr. Micawber took a seat , and waved his hand in his most courtly manner . 
'Any friend of my friend Copperfield's , said Mr. Micawber , 'has a personal claim upon myself . 
'We are too umble , sir , said Mrs. Heep , 'my son and me , to be the friends of Master Copperfield . 
He has been so good as take his tea with us , and we are thankful to him for his company , also to you , sir , for your notice . 
'A pupil ? said Mr. Micawber , raising his eyebrows . 
'I am extremely happy to hear it . 
Uriah , with his long hands slowly twining over one another , made a ghastly writhe from the waist upwards , to express his concurrence in this estimation of me . 
'Shall we go and see Mrs. Micawber , sir ? I said , to get Mr. Micawber away . 
'If you will do her that favour , Copperfield , replied Mr. Micawber , rising . 
I knew he was certain to say something of this kind he always would be so boastful about his difficulties . 
'Sometimes I have risen superior to my difficulties . 
Sometimes my difficulties have in short , have floored me . 
I can show fight no more . 
into the bosom of my friend Copperfield . 
Mr. Micawber closed this handsome tribute by saying , 'Mr . 
It was a little inn where Mr. Micawber put up , and he occupied a little room in it , partitioned off from the commercial room , and strongly flavoured with tobacco smoke . 
I think it was over the kitchen , because a warm greasy smell appeared to come up through the chinks in the floor , and there was a flabby perspiration on the walls . 
I know it was near the bar , on account of the smell of spirits and jingling of glasses . 
Mrs. Micawber was amazed , but very glad to see me . 
I was very glad to see her too , and , after an affectionate greeting on both sides , sat down on the small sofa near her . 
'I thought you were at Plymouth , ma'am , I said to Mrs. Micawber , as he went out . 
'My dear Master Copperfield , she replied , 'we went to Plymouth . 
'To be on the spot , I hinted . 
'Just so , said Mrs. Micawber . 
'To be on the spot . 
But , the truth is , talent is not wanted in the Custom House . 
The local influence of my family was quite unavailing to obtain any employment in that department , for a man of Mr. Micawber's abilities . 
They would rather NOT have a man of Mr. Micawber's abilities . 
He would only show the deficiency of the others . 
In fact , said Mrs. Micawber , lowering her voice , 'this is between ourselves our reception was cool . 
'Dear me ! I said . 
'Yes , said Mrs. Micawber . 
'It is truly painful to contemplate mankind in such an aspect , Master Copperfield , but our reception was , decidedly , cool . 
There is no doubt about it . 
In fact , that branch of my family which is settled in Plymouth became quite personal to Mr. Micawber , before we had been there a week . 
I said , and thought , that they ought to be ashamed of themselves . 
'Still , so it was , continued Mrs. Micawber . 
'Under such circumstances , what could a man of Mr. Micawber's spirit do ? But one obvious course was left . 
To borrow , of that branch of my family , the money to return to London , and to return at any sacrifice . 
'Then you all came back again , ma'am ? I said . 
'We all came back again , replied Mrs. Micawber . 
'It is clear that a family of six , not including a domestic , cannot live upon air . 
'Certainly , ma'am , said I. 'The opinion of those other branches of my family , pursued Mrs. Micawber , 'is , that Mr. Micawber should immediately turn his attention to coals . 
'To what , ma'am ? 'To coals , said Mrs. Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber was induced to think , on inquiry , that there might be an opening for a man of his talent in the Medway Coal Trade . 
Then , as Mr. Micawber very properly said , the first step to be taken clearly was , to come and see the Medway . 
Which we came and saw . 
I say we , Master Copperfield for I never will , said Mrs. Micawber with emotion , 'I never will desert Mr. Micawber . 
I murmured my admiration and approbation . 
'We came , repeated Mrs. Micawber , 'and saw the Medway . 
My opinion of the coal trade on that river is , that it may require talent , but that it certainly requires capital . 
Talent , Mr. Micawber has capital , Mr. Micawber has not . 
We saw , I think , the greater part of the Medway and that is my individual conclusion . 
Being so near here , Mr. Micawber was of opinion that it would be rash not to come on , and see the Cathedral . 
We have been here , said Mrs. Micawber , 'three days . 
, from my boy and girl , and from my twins . 
Mr. Micawber's answer expressed the disturbance of his mind . 
At this dreadful hint Mrs. Micawber threw her arms round Mr. Micawber's neck and entreated him to be calm . 
When I took my leave of them , they both pressed me so much to come and dine before they went away , that I could not refuse . 
, and propose the day after , if it would suit me better . 
Accordingly I was called out of school next forenoon , and found Mr. Micawber in the parlour who had called to say that the dinner would take place as proposed . 
When I asked him if the remittance had come , he pressed my hand and departed . 
'And I'll tell you what , my dear Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , 'your friend Heep is a young fellow who might be attorney general . 
I hardly understood how this could have been , seeing that Mr. Micawber had paid them nothing at all as it was but I did not like to ask . 
Neither did I like to say , that I hoped he had not been too communicative to Uriah or to inquire if they had talked much about me . 
We had a beautiful little dinner . 
Quite an elegant dish of fish the kidney end of a loin of veal , roasted fried sausage meat a partridge , and a pudding . 
There was wine , and there was strong ale and after dinner Mrs. Micawber made us a bowl of hot punch with her own hands . 
Mr. Micawber was uncommonly convivial . 
I never saw him such good company . 
He made his face shine with the punch , so that it looked as if it had been varnished all over . 
As the punch disappeared , Mr. Micawber became still more friendly and convivial . 
Mrs. Micawber's spirits becoming elevated , too , we sang 'Auld Lang Syne' . 
When it becomes due , it will not be taken up . 
The bolt is impending , and the tree must fall . 
'Let the wretched man who now addresses you , my dear Copperfield , be a beacon to you through life . 
He writes with that intention , and in that hope . 
'This is the last communication , my dear Copperfield , you will ever receive 'From 'The 'Beggared Outcast , 'WILKINS MICAWBER . 
As they did not see me , I thought it best , all things considered , not to see them . 
A moment , and I occupy my place in the Cathedral , where we all went together , every Sunday morning , assembling first at school for that purpose . 
I am not the last boy in the school . 
I have risen in a few months , over several heads . 
But the first boy seems to me a mighty creature , dwelling afar off , whose giddy height is unattainable . 
He is not my private friend and public patron , as Steerforth was , but I hold him in a reverential respect . 
I chiefly wonder what he'll be , when he leaves Doctor Strong's , and what mankind will do to maintain any place against him . 
But who is this that breaks upon me ? This is Miss Shepherd , whom I love . 
Miss Shepherd is a boarder at the Misses Nettingalls' establishment . 
She is a little girl , in a spencer , with a round face and curly flaxen hair . 
The Misses Nettingalls' young ladies come to the Cathedral too . 
I cannot look upon my book , for I must look upon Miss Shepherd . 
When the choristers chaunt , I hear Miss Shepherd . 
In the service I mentally insert Miss Shepherd's name I put her in among the Royal Family . 
At home , in my own room , I am sometimes moved to cry out , 'Oh , Miss Shepherd ! in a transport of love . 
For some time , I am doubtful of Miss Shepherd's feelings , but , at length , Fate being propitious , we meet at the dancing school . 
I have Miss Shepherd for my partner . 
I touch Miss Shepherd's glove , and feel a thrill go up the right arm of my jacket , and come out at my hair . 
I say nothing to Miss Shepherd , but we understand each other . 
Miss Shepherd and myself live but to be united . 
Soft , seedy biscuits , also , I bestow upon Miss Shepherd and oranges innumerable . 
Once , I kiss Miss Shepherd in the cloak room . 
And yet a coolness grows between Miss Shepherd and myself . 
At last , one day , I meet the Misses Nettingalls' establishment out walking . 
Miss Shepherd makes a face as she goes by , and laughs to her companion . 
I am higher in the school , and no one breaks my peace . 
I think the dancing school a tiresome affair , and wonder why the girls can't dance by themselves and leave us alone . 
I am growing great in Latin verses , and neglect the laces of my boots . 
Doctor Strong refers to me in public as a promising young scholar . 
Mr. Dick is wild with joy , and my aunt remits me a guinea by the next post . 
The shade of a young butcher rises , like the apparition of an armed head in Macbeth . 
Who is this young butcher ? He is the terror of the youth of Canterbury . 
There is a vague belief abroad , that the beef suet with which he anoints his hair gives him unnatural strength , and that he is a match for a man . 
He is a broad faced , bull necked , young butcher , with rough red cheeks , an ill conditioned mind , and an injurious tongue . 
His main use of this tongue , is , to disparage Doctor Strong's young gentlemen . 
He says , publicly , that if they want anything he'll give it 'em . 
, whom he could undertake to settle with one hand , and the other tied behind him . 
He waylays the smaller boys to punch their unprotected heads , and calls challenges after me in the open streets . 
For these sufficient reasons I resolve to fight the butcher . 
It is a summer evening , down in a green hollow , at the corner of a wall . 
I meet the butcher by appointment . 
I am attended by a select body of our boys the butcher , by two other butchers , a young publican , and a sweep . 
The preliminaries are adjusted , and the butcher and myself stand face to face . 
In a moment the butcher lights ten thousand candles out of my left eyebrow . 
In another moment , I don't know where the wall is , or where I am , or where anybody is . 
I hardly know which is myself and which the butcher , we are always in such a tangle and tussle , knocking about upon the trodden grass . 
Time has stolen on unobserved , for Adams is not the head boy in the days that are come now , nor has he been this many and many a day . 
Adams has left the school so long , that when he comes back , on a visit to Doctor Strong , there are not many there , besides myself , who know him . 
Adams is going to be called to the bar almost directly , and is to be an advocate , and to wear a wig . 
I am surprised to find him a meeker man than I had thought , and less imposing in appearance . 
pretty much the same as if he had never joined it . 
And the little girl I saw on that first day at Mr. Wickfield's , where is she ? Gone also . 
Am I in love again ? I am . 
I worship the eldest Miss Larkins . 
The eldest Miss Larkins is not a little girl . 
She is a tall , dark , black eyed , fine figure of a woman . 
The eldest Miss Larkins is not a chicken for the youngest Miss Larkins is not that , and the eldest must be three or four years older . 
Perhaps the eldest Miss Larkins may be about thirty . 
My passion for her is beyond all bounds . 
The eldest Miss Larkins knows officers . 
It is an awful thing to bear . 
I see them speaking to her in the street . 
is seen coming down the pavement , accompanied by her sister's bonnet . 
She laughs and talks , and seems to like it . 
I spend a good deal of my own spare time in walking up and down to meet her . 
I deserve a bow now and then . 
My passion takes away my appetite , and makes me wear my newest silk neckerchief continually . 
I have no relief but in putting on my best clothes , and having my boots cleaned over and over again . 
I seem , then , to be worthier of the eldest Miss Larkins . 
Everything that belongs to her , or is connected with her , is precious to me . 
is fraught with interest to me . 
When I can't meet his daughter , I go where I am likely to meet him . 
To say 'How do you do , Mr. Larkins ? Are the young ladies and all the family quite well ? seems so pointed , that I blush . 
I think continually about my age . 
Say I am seventeen , and say that seventeen is young for the eldest Miss Larkins , what of that ? Besides , I shall be one and twenty in no time almost . 
For I am generally disinterested in my love , and think I could be content to make a figure before Miss Larkins , and expire . 
Generally , but not always . 
Sometimes brighter visions rise before me . 
, I indulge my fancy with pleasing images . 
I picture myself taking courage to make a declaration to Miss Larkins . 
Here are twenty thousand pounds . 
Be happy ! I picture my aunt relenting , and blessing us and Mr. Dick and Doctor Strong being present at the marriage ceremony . 
I am a sensible fellow , I believe I believe , on looking back , I mean and modest I am sure but all this goes on notwithstanding . 
, and the eldest Miss Larkins , a blaze of beauty . 
She is dressed in blue , with blue flowers in her hair forget me nots as if SHE had any need to wear forget me nots . 
'With no one else ? inquires Miss Larkins . 
'I should have no pleasure in dancing with anyone else . 
, and says , 'Next time but one , I shall be very glad . 
'It is a waltz , I think , Miss Larkins doubtfully observes , when I present myself . 
, and I take Miss Larkins out . 
I take her sternly from the side of Captain Bailey . 
He is wretched , I have no doubt but he is nothing to me . 
I have been wretched , too . 
I waltz with the eldest Miss Larkins ! I don't know where , among whom , or how long . 
, in my button hole . 
I give it her , and say 'I ask an inestimable price for it , Miss Larkins . 
'Indeed ! What is that ? returns Miss Larkins . 
'A flower of yours , that I may treasure it as a miser does gold . 
'You're a bold boy , says Miss Larkins . 
She gives it me , not displeased and I put it to my lips , and then into my breast . 
Miss Larkins , laughing , draws her hand through my arm , and says , 'Now take me back to Captain Bailey . 
I feel at once that he is a friend of the family , and am much gratified . 
'I admire your taste , sir , says Mr. Chestle . 
I thank Mr. Chestle warmly , and shake hands . 
I think I am in a happy dream . 
I waltz with the eldest Miss Larkins once again . 
For some days afterwards , I am lost in rapturous reflections but I neither see her in the street , nor when I call . 
I am imperfectly consoled for this disappointment by the sacred pledge , the perished flower . 
'Trotwood , says Agnes , one day after dinner . 
'Who do you think is going to be married tomorrow ? Someone you admire . 
'Not you , I suppose , Agnes ? 'Not me ! raising her cheerful face from the music she is copying . 
'Do you hear him , Papa ? The eldest Miss Larkins . 
'To to Captain Bailey ? I have just enough power to ask . 
To Mr. Chestle , a hop grower . 
I am terribly dejected for about a week or two . 
I take off my ring , I wear my worst clothes , I use no bear's grease , and I frequently lament over the late Miss Larkins's faded flower . 
I had been very happy there , I had a great attachment for the Doctor , and I was eminent and distinguished in that little world . 
For these reasons I was sorry to go but for other reasons , unsubstantial enough , I was glad . 
So powerful were these visionary considerations in my boyish mind , that I seem , according to my present way of thinking , to have left school without natural regret . 
The separation has not made the impression on me , that other separations have . 
I try in vain to recall how I felt about it , and what its circumstances were but it is not momentous in my recollection . 
I suppose the opening prospect confused me . 
MY aunt and I had held many grave deliberations on the calling to which I should be devoted . 
Mr. Dick had regularly assisted at our councils , with a meditative and sage demeanour . 
, he suddenly proposed that I should be 'a Brazier' . 
In the meanwhile , you must try to look at it from a new point of view , and not as a schoolboy . 
'Of all things in the world , aunt , I should like it best ! 'Well , said my aunt , 'that's lucky , for I should like it too . 
But it's natural and rational that you should like it . 
And I am very well persuaded that whatever you do , Trot , will always be natural and rational . 
'I hope so , aunt . 
'Your sister , Betsey Trotwood , said my aunt , 'would have been as natural and rational a girl as ever breathed . 
You'll be worthy of her , won't you ? 'I hope I shall be worthy of YOU , aunt . 
That will be enough for me . 
'And he's like David , too , said my aunt , decisively . 
'He is very like David ! said Mr. Dick . 
'But what I want you to be , Trot , resumed my aunt , I don't mean physically , but morally you are very well physically is , a firm fellow . 
A fine firm fellow , with a will of your own . 
With resolution , said my aunt , shaking her cap at me , and clenching her hand . 
With character , Trot with strength of character that is not to be influenced , except on good reason , by anybody , or by anything . 
That's what I want you to be . 
That's what your father and mother might both have been , Heaven knows , and been the better for it . 
I intimated that I hoped I should be what she described . 
I did think , once , of Mr. Dick's going with you but , on second thoughts , I shall keep him to take care of me . 
, and also of the good Doctor . 
Agnes was very glad to see me , and told me that the house had not been like itself since I had left it . 
'I am sure I am not like myself when I am away , said I. 'I seem to want my right hand , when I miss you . 
Though that's not saying much for there's no head in my right hand , and no heart . 
Everyone who knows you , consults with you , and is guided by you , Agnes . 
'Everyone who knows me , spoils me , I believe , she answered , smiling . 
it's because you are like no one else . 
You are so good , and so sweet tempered . 
You have such a gentle nature , and you are always right . 
'You talk , said Agnes , breaking into a pleasant laugh , as she sat at work , 'as if I were the late Miss Larkins . 
'Come ! It's not fair to abuse my confidence , I answered , reddening at the recollection of my blue enslaver . 
'But I shall confide in you , just the same , Agnes . 
I can never grow out of that . 
Whenever I fall into trouble , or fall in love , I shall always tell you , if you'll let me even when I come to fall in love in earnest . 
'Why , you have always been in earnest ! said Agnes , laughing again . 
'Oh ! that was as a child , or a schoolboy , said I , laughing in my turn , not without being a little shame faced . 
'Times are altering now , and I suppose I shall be in a terrible state of earnestness one day or other . 
My wonder is , that you are not in earnest yourself , by this time , Agnes . 
Agnes laughed again , and shook her head . 
'Oh , I know you are not ! said I , 'because if you had been you would have told me . 
Or at least' for I saw a faint blush in her face , 'you would have let me find it out for myself . 
But there is no one that I know of , who deserves to love you , Agnes . 
Someone of a nobler character , and more worthy altogether than anyone I have ever seen here , must rise up , before I give my consent . 
In the time to come , I shall have a wary eye on all admirers and shall exact a great deal from the successful one , I assure you . 
We had gone on , so far , in a mixture of confidential jest and earnest , that had long grown naturally out of our familiar relations , begun as mere children . 
Have you observed any gradual alteration in Papa ? I had observed it , and had often wondered whether she had too . 
I must have shown as much , now , in my face for her eyes were in a moment cast down , and I saw tears in them . 
'Tell me what it is , she said , in a low voice . 
'I think shall I be quite plain , Agnes , liking him so much ? 'Yes , she said . 
'I think he does himself no good by the habit that has increased upon him since I first came here . 
He is often very nervous or I fancy so . 
'It is not fancy , said Agnes , shaking her head . 
'His hand trembles , his speech is not plain , and his eyes look wild . 
I have remarked that at those times , and when he is least like himself , he is most certain to be wanted on some business . 
'By Uriah , said Agnes . 
The expression of her face , as they both looked towards me , I felt to be very touching . 
We were to drink tea at the Doctor's . 
We went there at the usual hour and round the study fireside found the Doctor , and his young wife , and her mother . 
'I shall not see many more new faces in Trotwood's stead , Wickfield , said the Doctor , warming his hands 'I am getting lazy , and want ease . 
I shall relinquish all my young people in another six months , and lead a quieter life . 
'You have said so , any time these ten years , Doctor , Mr. Wickfield answered . 
'But now I mean to do it , returned the Doctor . 
'And to take care , said Mr. Wickfield , 'that you're not imposed on , eh ? As you certainly would be , in any contract you should make for yourself . 
Well ! I am ready . 
There are worse tasks than that , in my calling . 
'I shall have nothing to think of then , said the Doctor , with a smile , 'but my Dictionary and this other contract bargain Annie . 
'There is a post come in from India , I observe , he said , after a short silence . 
'By the by ! and letters from Mr. Jack Maldon ! said the Doctor . 
'Indeed ! 'Poor dear Jack ! said Mrs. Markleham , shaking her head . 
'That trying climate ! like living , they tell me , on a sand heap , underneath a burning glass ! He looked strong , but he wasn't . 
My dear Doctor , it was his spirit , not his constitution , that he ventured on so boldly . 
Annie , thus addressed , made no reply . 
'Do I gather from what you say , ma'am , that Mr. Maldon is ill ? asked Mr. Wickfield . 
'Ill ! replied the Old Soldier . 
'My dear sir , he's all sorts of things . 
'Except well ? said Mr. Wickfield . 
'Except well , indeed ! said the Old Soldier . 
'He has had dreadful strokes of the sun , no doubt , and jungle fevers and agues , and every kind of thing you can mention . 
'Say ? My dear sir , returned Mrs. Markleham , shaking her head and her fan , 'you little know my poor Jack Maldon when you ask that question . 
You might drag him at the heels of four wild horses first . 
'Mama ! said Mrs. Strong . 
'Annie , my dear , returned her mother , 'once for all , I must really beg that you will not interfere with me , unless it is to confirm what I say . 
'Wickfield's plans , said the Doctor , stroking his face , and looking penitently at his adviser . 
'That is to say , our joint plans for him . 
I said myself , abroad or at home . 
'And I said' added Mr. Wickfield gravely , 'abroad . 
I was the means of sending him abroad . 
'Oh ! Responsibility ! said the Old Soldier . 
'Everything was done for the best , my dear Mr. Wickfield everything was done for the kindest and best , we know . 
But if the dear fellow can't live there , he can't live there . 
And if he can't live there , he'll die there , sooner than he'll overturn the Doctor's plans . 
'Well , well , ma'am , said the Doctor cheerfully , 'I am not bigoted to my plans , and I can overturn them myself . 
I can substitute some other plans . 
All this time , her daughter Annie never once spoke , or lifted up her eyes . 
All this time , Mr. Wickfield had his glance upon her as she sat by his own daughter's side . 
That's pretty plain , poor fellow ! His only hope of restoration ! But Annie's letter is plainer still . 
Annie , show me that letter again . 
'Not now , mama , she pleaded in a low tone . 
We never should have heard of the letter at all , I believe , unless I had asked for it myself . 
Do you call that confidence , my love , towards Doctor Strong ? I am surprised . 
You ought to know better . 
The letter was reluctantly produced and as I handed it to the old lady , I saw how the unwilling hand from which I took it , trembled . 
'Now let us see , said Mrs. Markleham , putting her glass to her eye , 'where the passage is . 
The remembrance of old times , my dearest Annie and so forth it's not there . 
The amiable old Proctor who's he ? Dear me , Annie , how illegibly your cousin Maldon writes , and how stupid I am ! Doctor , of course . 
'Now I have found it . 
What I have endured , and do endure here , is insupportable . 
The Doctor was very fond of music . 
Agnes sang with great sweetness and expression , and so did Mrs. Strong . 
They sang together , and played duets together , and we had quite a little concert . 
She was so happy in it herself , however , and the other was so happy too , that they made the evening fly away as if it were but an hour . 
It closed in an incident which I well remember . 
It haunted me when I got home . 
I seemed to have left the Doctor's roof with a dark cloud lowering on it . 
The reverence that I had for his grey head , was mingled with commiseration for his faith in those who were treacherous to him , and with resentment against those who injured him . 
It was as if the tranquil sanctuary of my boyhood had been sacked before my face , and its peace and honour given to the winds . 
But morning brought with it my parting from the old house , which Agnes had filled with her influence and that occupied my mind sufficiently . 
I got away from Agnes and her father , somehow , with an indifferent show of being very manly , and took my seat upon the box of the London coach . 
The latter point I achieved at great personal inconvenience but I stuck to it , because I felt it was a grown up sort of thing . 
'You are going through , sir ? said the coachman . 
'I am going to London . 
I shall go down into Suffolk afterwards . 
'Shooting , sir ? said the coachman . 
He knew as well as I did that it was just as likely , at that time of year , I was going down there whaling but I felt complimented , too . 
'I don't know , I said , pretending to be undecided , 'whether I shall take a shot or not . 
'Birds is got wery shy , I'm told , said William . 
'So I understand , said I. 'Is Suffolk your county , sir ? asked William . 
'Yes , I said , with some importance . 
'I'm told the dumplings is uncommon fine down there , said William . 
'There's cattle ! A Suffolk Punch , when he's a good un , is worth his weight in gold . 
Did you ever breed any Suffolk Punches yourself , sir ? 'N no , I said , 'not exactly . 
'Here's a gen'lm'n behind me , I'll pound it , said William , 'as has bred 'em by wholesale . 
'Ain't you ? asked William . 
'Ain't I what ? said the gentleman behind . 
'Bred them Suffolk Punches by wholesale ? 'I should think so , said the gentleman . 
'There ain't no sort of orse that I ain't bred , and no sort of dorg . 
Orses and dorgs is some men's fancy . 
They're wittles and drink to me lodging , wife , and children reading , writing , and Arithmetic snuff , tobacker , and sleep . 
'That ain't a sort of man to see sitting behind a coach box , is it though ? said William in my ear , as he handled the reins . 
I construed this remark into an indication of a wish that he should have my place , so I blushingly offered to resign it . 
'Well , if you don't mind , sir , said William , 'I think it would be more correct . 
I have always considered this as the first fall I had in life . 
When I booked my place at the coach office I had had 'Box Seat' written against the entry , and had given the book keeper half a crown . 
It was in vain to take refuge in gruffness of speech . 
I spoke from the pit of my stomach for the rest of the journey , but I felt completely extinguished , and dreadfully young . 
I had abundant occupation for my thoughts , in every conspicuous landmark on the road . 
We went to the Golden Cross at Charing Cross , then a mouldy sort of establishment in a close neighbourhood . 
A waiter showed me into the coffee room and a chambermaid introduced me to my small bedchamber , which smelt like a hackney coach , and was shut up like a family vault . 
'Ain't you ? said the waiter . 
'Young gentlemen is generally tired of beef and mutton have a weal cutlet ! I assented to this proposal , in default of being able to suggest anything else . 
'Do you care for taters ? said the waiter , with an insinuating smile , and his head on one side . 
'Young gentlemen generally has been overdosed with taters . 
and began to lay the cloth for my dinner in a box by the fire . 
, I resolved to go to the play . 
It was Covent Garden Theatre that I chose and there , from the back of a centre box , I saw Julius Caesar and the new Pantomime . 
But I recollect being conscious of his company without having noticed his coming in and my still sitting , musing , over the coffee room fire . 
In going towards the door , I passed the person who had come in , and saw him plainly . 
I turned directly , came back , and looked again . 
He did not know me , but I knew him in a moment . 
At another time I might have wanted the confidence or the decision to speak to him , and might have put it off until next day , and might have lost him . 
'You don't remember me , I am afraid , said I. 'My God ! he suddenly exclaimed . 
'It's little Copperfield ! I grasped him by both hands , and could not let them go . 
But for very shame , and the fear that it might displease him , I could have held him round the neck and cried . 
'Why , how do you come to be here ? said Steerforth , clapping me on the shoulder . 
'I came here by the Canterbury coach , today . 
I have been adopted by an aunt down in that part of the country , and have just finished my education there . 
You're a devilish amiable looking fellow , Copperfield . 
just what you used to be , now I look at you ! Not altered in the least ! 'I knew you immediately , I said 'but you are more easily remembered . 
He laughed as he ran his hand through the clustering curls of his hair , and said gaily 'Yes , I am on an expedition of duty . 
My mother lives a little way out of town and the roads being in a beastly condition , and our house tedious enough , I remained here tonight instead of going on . 
I have not been in town half a dozen hours , and those I have been dozing and grumbling away at the play . 
'I have been at the play , too , said I. 'At Covent Garden . 
What a delightful and magnificent entertainment , Steerforth ! Steerforth laughed heartily . 
'My dear young Davy , he said , clapping me on the shoulder again , 'you are a very Daisy . 
The daisy of the field , at sunrise , is not fresher than you are . 
I have been at Covent Garden , too , and there never was a more miserable business . 
Holloa , you sir ! This was addressed to the waiter , who had been very attentive to our recognition , at a distance , and now came forward deferentially . 
'Where have you put my friend , Mr. Copperfield ? said Steerforth . 
'Beg your pardon , sir ? 'Where does he sleep ? What's his number ? You know what I mean , said Steerforth . 
'Well , sir , said the waiter , with an apologetic air . 
Copperfield is at present in forty four , sir . 
We can give Mr. Copperfield seventy two , sir , if it would be preferred . 
'Of course it would be preferred , said Steerforth . 
'And do it at once . 
The waiter immediately withdrew to make the exchange . 
but his easy patronage soon put that to rights , and made me quite at home . 
I could not enough admire the change he had wrought in the Golden Cross or compare the dull forlorn state I had held yesterday , with this morning's comfort and this morning's entertainment . 
As to the waiter's familiarity , it was quenched as if it had never been . 
He attended on us , as I may say , in sackcloth and ashes . 
'Now , Copperfield , said Steerforth , when we were alone , 'I should like to hear what you are doing , and where you are going , and all about you . 
I feel as if you were my property . 
'As you are in no hurry , then , said Steerforth , 'come home with me to Highgate , and stay a day or two . 
You will be pleased with my mother she is a little vain and prosy about me , but that you can forgive her and she will be pleased with you . 
'I should like to be as sure of that , as you are kind enough to say you are , I answered , smiling . 
'Oh ! said Steerforth , 'everyone who likes me , has a claim on her that is sure to be acknowledged . 
'Then I think I shall be a favourite , said I. 'Good ! said Steerforth . 
'You'll take a high degree at college , Steerforth , said I , 'if you have not done so already and they will have good reason to be proud of you . 
'I take a degree ! cried Steerforth . 
'Not I ! my dear Daisy will you mind my calling you Daisy ? 'Not at all ! said I. 'That's a good fellow ! My dear Daisy , said Steerforth , laughing . 
'I have not the least desire or intention to distinguish myself in that way . 
I have done quite sufficient for my purpose . 
I find that I am heavy company enough for myself as I am . 
'But the fame I was beginning . 
There's fame for him , and he's welcome to it . 
I was abashed at having made so great a mistake , and was glad to change the subject . 
Fortunately it was not difficult to do , for Steerforth could always pass from one subject to another with a carelessness and lightness that were his own . 
To this lady he presented me as his mother , and she gave me a stately welcome . 
It was a genteel old fashioned house , very quiet and orderly . 
From the windows of my room I saw all London lying in the distance like a great vapour , with here and there some lights twinkling through it . 
She had black hair and eager black eyes , and was thin , and had a scar upon her lip . 
I concluded in my own mind that she was about thirty years of age , and that she wished to be married . 
She was a little dilapidated like a house with having been so long to let yet had , as I have said , an appearance of good looks . 
Her thinness seemed to be the effect of some wasting fire within her , which found a vent in her gaunt eyes . 
She was introduced as Miss Dartle , and both Steerforth and his mother called her Rosa . 
I found that she lived there , and had been for a long time Mrs. Steerforth's companion . 
It appeared to me that she never said anything she wanted to say , outright but hinted it , and made a great deal more of it by this practice . 
'Oh ! Yes ! That's very true , returned Miss Dartle . 
'But isn't it , though ? I want to be put right , if I am wrong isn't it , really ? 'Really what ? said Mrs. Steerforth . 
'Oh ! You mean it's not ! returned Miss Dartle . 
'Well , I'm very glad to hear it ! Now , I know what to do ! That's the advantage of asking . 
I shall never allow people to talk before me about wastefulness and profligacy , and so forth , in connexion with that life , any more . 
'And you will be right , said Mrs. Steerforth . 
'My son's tutor is a conscientious gentleman and if I had not implicit reliance on my son , I should have reliance on him . 
'Should you ? said Miss Dartle . 
'Dear me ! Conscientious , is he ? Really conscientious , now ? 'Yes , I am convinced of it , said Mrs. Steerforth . 
'How very nice ! exclaimed Miss Dartle . 
'What a comfort ! Really conscientious ? Then he's not but of course he can't be , if he's really conscientious . 
Well , I shall be quite happy in my opinion of him , from this time . 
An instance happened before dinner was done . 
'Oh ! That bluff fellow ! said Steerforth . 
'He had a son with him , hadn't he ? 'No . 
That was his nephew , I replied 'whom he adopted , though , as a son . 
He has a very pretty little niece too , whom he adopted as a daughter . 
In short , his house or rather his boat , for he lives in one , on dry land is full of people who are objects of his generosity and kindness . 
You would be delighted to see that household . 
'Should I ? said Steerforth . 
'Well , I think I should . 
I must see what can be done . 
, to see that sort of people together , and to make one of 'em . 
My heart leaped with a new hope of pleasure . 
'Oh , but , really ? Do tell me . 
Are they , though ? she said . 
'Are they what ? And are who what ? said Steerforth . 
Are they really animals and clods , and beings of another order ? I want to know SO much . 
'Why , there's a pretty wide separation between them and us , said Steerforth , with indifference . 
'They are not to be expected to be as sensitive as we are . 
Their delicacy is not to be shocked , or hurt easily . 
'Really ! said Miss Dartle . 
'Well , I don't know , now , when I have been better pleased than to hear that . 
I had my doubts , I confess , but now they're cleared up . 
But he merely asked me what I thought of her . 
'She is very clever , is she not ? I asked . 
'Clever ! She brings everything to a grindstone , said Steerforth , and sharpens it , as she has sharpened her own face and figure these years past . 
She has worn herself away by constant sharpening . 
'What a remarkable scar that is upon her lip ! I said . 
Steerforth's face fell , and he paused a moment . 
'Why , the fact is , he returned , 'I did that . 
'By an unfortunate accident ! 'No . 
I was a young boy , and she exasperated me , and I threw a hammer at her . 
A promising young angel I must have been ! I was deeply sorry to have touched on such a painful theme , but that was useless now . 
She was the motherless child of a sort of cousin of my father's . 
My mother , who was then a widow , brought her here to be company to her . 
She has a couple of thousand pounds of her own , and saves the interest of it every year , to add to the principal . 
There's the history of Miss Rosa Dartle for you . 
'And I have no doubt she loves you like a brother ? said I. 'Humph ! retorted Steerforth , looking at the fire . 
I could not help glancing at the scar with a painful interest when we went in to tea . 
It was no matter of wonder to me to find Mrs. Steerforth devoted to her son . 
She seemed to be able to speak or think about nothing else . 
'He was very generous and noble to me in those days , I assure you , ma'am , said I , 'and I stood in need of such a friend . 
I should have been quite crushed without him . 
'He is always generous and noble , said Mrs. Steerforth , proudly . 
I subscribed to this with all my heart , God knows . 
She knew I did for the stateliness of her manner already abated towards me , except when she spoke in praise of him , and then her air was always lofty . 
I knew that , knowing the fellow . 
'My son's great capacity was tempted on , there , by a feeling of voluntary emulation and conscious pride , the fond lady went on to say . 
'He would have risen against all constraint but he found himself the monarch of the place , and he haughtily determined to be worthy of his station . 
I echoed , with all my heart and soul , that it was like himself . 
'My son informs me , Mr. Copperfield , that you were quite devoted to him , and that when you met yesterday you made yourself known to him with tears of joy . 
Miss Dartle played backgammon as eagerly as she did everything else . 
There was no hurry , he said a week hence would do and his mother hospitably said the same . 
While we were talking , he more than once called me Daisy which brought Miss Dartle out again . 
I coloured in replying that I believed it was . 
'Oh ! said Miss Dartle . 
'Now I am glad to know that ! I ask for information , and I am glad to know it . 
He thinks you young and innocent and so you are his friend . 
Well , that's quite delightful ! She went to bed soon after this , and Mrs. Steerforth retired too . 
Steerforth and I , after lingering for half an hour over the fire , talking about Traddles and all the rest of them at old Salem House , went upstairs together . 
Steerforth's room was next to mine , and I went in to look at it . 
I found the fire burning clear enough in my room by this time , and the curtains drawn before the windows and round the bed , giving it a very snug appearance . 
It was a startling likeness , and necessarily had a startling look . 
I wondered peevishly why they couldn't put her anywhere else instead of quartering her on me . 
To get rid of her , I undressed quickly , extinguished my light , and went to bed . 
I believe there never existed in his station a more respectable looking man . 
If his nose had been upside down , he would have made that respectable . 
He surrounded himself with an atmosphere of respectability , and walked secure in it . 
It would have been next to impossible to suspect him of anything wrong , he was so thoroughly respectable . 
Nobody could have thought of putting him in a livery , he was so highly respectable . 
To have imposed any derogatory work upon him , would have been to inflict a wanton insult on the feelings of a most respectable man . 
Such a self contained man I never saw . 
But in that quality , as in every other he possessed , he only seemed to be the more respectable . 
Even the fact that no one knew his Christian name , seemed to form a part of his respectability . 
Nothing could be objected against his surname , Littimer , by which he was known . 
Peter might have been hanged , or Tom transported but Littimer was perfectly respectable . 
It was occasioned , I suppose , by the reverend nature of respectability in the abstract , but I felt particularly young in this man's presence . 
Littimer was in my room in the morning before I was up , to bring me that reproachful shaving water , and to put out my clothes . 
I gave him good morning , and asked him what o'clock it was . 
Steerforth will be glad to hear how you have rested , sir . 
'Thank you , said I , 'very well indeed . 
Is Mr. Steerforth quite well ? 'Thank you , sir , Mr. Steerforth is tolerably well . 
Another of his characteristics no use of superlatives . 
A cool calm medium always . 
'Is there anything more I can have the honour of doing for you , sir ? The warning bell will ring at nine the family take breakfast at half past nine . 
'Nothing , I thank you . 
He got horses for us and Steerforth , who knew everything , gave me lessons in riding . 
He provided foils for us , and Steerforth gave me lessons in fencing gloves , and I began , of the same master , to improve in boxing . 
It gave me no manner of concern that Steerforth should find me a novice in these sciences , but I never could bear to show my want of skill before the respectable Littimer . 
I am particular about this man , because he made a particular effect on me at that time , and because of what took place thereafter . 
The week passed away in a most delightful manner . 
A dashing way he had of treating me like a plaything , was more agreeable to me than any behaviour he could have adopted . 
As he had treated me at school differently from all the rest , I joyfully believed that he treated me in life unlike any other friend he had . 
I believed that I was nearer to his heart than any other friend , and my own heart warmed with attachment to him . 
He made up his mind to go with me into the country , and the day arrived for our departure . 
He had been doubtful at first whether to take Littimer or not , but decided to leave him at home . 
We bade adieu to Mrs. Steerforth and Miss Dartle , with many thanks on my part , and much kindness on the devoted mother's . 
The last thing I saw was Littimer's unruffled eye fraught , as I fancied , with the silent conviction that I was very young indeed . 
What I felt , in returning so auspiciously to the old familiar places , I shall not endeavour to describe . 
We went down by the Mail . 
, and breakfasted late in the morning . 
'When do you propose to introduce me there , Daisy ? he said . 
'I am at your disposal . 
'Why , I was thinking that this evening would be a good time , Steerforth , when they are all sitting round the fire . 
I should like you to see it when it's snug , it's such a curious place . 
'So be it ! returned Steerforth . 
'I shall not give them any notice that we are here , you know , said I , delighted . 
'We must take them by surprise . 
'Oh , of course ! It's no fun , said Steerforth , 'unless we take them by surprise . 
Let us see the natives in their aboriginal condition . 
'Though they ARE that sort of people that you mentioned , I returned . 
'Aha ! What ! you recollect my skirmishes with Rosa , do you ? he exclaimed with a quick look . 
'Confound the girl , I am half afraid of her . 
She's like a goblin to me . 
Now what are you going to do ? You are going to see your nurse , I suppose ? 'Why , yes , I said , 'I must see Peggotty first of all . 
'Well , replied Steerforth , looking at his watch . 
'Suppose I deliver you up to be cried over for a couple of hours . 
'I'll come anywhere you like , said Steerforth , 'or do anything you like . 
Tell me where to come to and in two hours I'll produce myself in any state you please , sentimental or comical . 
I gave him minute directions for finding the residence of Mr. Barkis , carrier to Blunderstone and elsewhere and , on this understanding , went out alone . 
I was so fresh and lively myself , in the pleasure of being there , that I could have stopped the people in the streets and shaken hands with them . 
The streets looked small , of course . 
The streets that we have only seen as children always do , I believe , when we go back to them . 
But I had forgotten nothing in them , and found nothing changed , until I came to Mr. Omer's shop . 
OMER AND Joram was now written up , where OMER used to be but the inscription , DRAPER , TAILOR , HABERDASHER , FUNERAL FURNISHER , c . 
, remained as it was . 
My footsteps seemed to tend so naturally to the shop door , after I had read these words from over the way , that I went across the road and looked in . 
There was a pretty woman at the back of the shop , dancing a little child in her arms , while another little fellow clung to her apron . 
I had no difficulty in recognizing either Minnie or Minnie's children . 
The glass door of the parlour was not open but in the workshop across the yard I could faintly hear the old tune playing , as if it had never left off . 
'Is Mr. Omer at home ? said I , entering . 
'I should like to see him , for a moment , if he is . 
'Oh yes , sir , he is at home , said Minnie 'the weather don't suit his asthma out of doors . 
I heard a heavy puffing and blowing coming towards us , and soon Mr. Omer , shorter winded than of yore , but not much older looking , stood before me . 
'Servant , sir , said Mr. Omer . 
'What can I do for you , sir ? 'You can shake hands with me , Mr. Omer , if you please , said I , putting out my own . 
'You were very good natured to me once , when I am afraid I didn't show that I thought so . 
'Was I though ? returned the old man . 
'I'm glad to hear it , but I don't remember when . 
Are you sure it was me ? 'Quite . 
'I think my memory has got as short as my breath , said Mr. Omer , looking at me and shaking his head 'for I don't remember you . 
'To be sure , said Mr. Omer , touching my waistcoat with his forefinger , 'and there was a little child too ! There was two parties . 
The little party was laid along with the other party . 
Over at Blunderstone it was , of course . 
Dear me ! And how have you been since ? Very well , I thanked him , as I hoped he had been too . 
'Oh ! nothing to grumble at , you know , said Mr. Omer . 
'I find my breath gets short , but it seldom gets longer as a man gets older . 
I take it as it comes , and make the most of it . 
'Dear me ! said Mr. Omer . 
'Yes , to be sure . 
Two parties ! Why , in that very ride , if you'll believe me , the day was named for my Minnie to marry Joram . 
Do name it , sir , says Joram . 
Yes , do , father , says Minnie . 
And now he's come into the business . 
'Two parties , of course ! said Mr. Omer , nodding his head retrospectively . 
Will you take something ? I thanked him , but declined . 
'Let me see , said Mr. Omer . 
'I believe my breath will get long next , my memory's getting so much so , said Mr. Omer . 
'Not little Em'ly ? said I , involuntarily . 
'Em'ly's her name , said Mr. Omer , 'and she's little too . 
But if you'll believe me , she has such a face of her own that half the women in this town are mad against her . 
'Nonsense , father ! cried Minnie . 
'Couldn't have done it , my dear ! retorted Mr. Omer . 
At length , however , he got better , though he still panted hard , and was so exhausted that he was obliged to sit on the stool of the shop desk . 
In consequence , an ill natured story got about , that Em'ly wanted to be a lady . 
'I assure you , Mr. Omer , she has said so to me , I returned eagerly , 'when we were both children . 
Mr. Omer nodded his head and rubbed his chin . 
Then out of a very little , she could dress herself , you see , better than most others could out of a deal , and that made things unpleasant . 
No more than that was ever said against her , Minnie ? 'No , father , said Mrs. Joram . 
'That's the worst , I believe . 
'So when she got a situation , said Mr. Omer , 'to keep a fractious old lady company , they didn't very well agree , and she didn't stop . 
At last she came here , apprenticed for three years . 
Nearly two of 'em are over , and she has been as good a girl as ever was . 
Worth any six ! Minnie , is she worth any six , now ? 'Yes , father , replied Minnie . 
'Never say I detracted from her ! 'Very good , said Mr. Omer . 
As they had spoken in a subdued tone , while speaking of Em'ly , I had no doubt that she was near . 
On my asking now , if that were not so , Mr. Omer nodded yes , and nodded towards the door of the parlour . 
My hurried inquiry if I might peep in , was answered with a free permission and , looking through the glass , I saw her sitting at her work . 
The tune across the yard that seemed as if it never had left off alas ! it was the tune that never DOES leave off was beating , softly , all the while . 
Here she was , in the tiled kitchen , cooking dinner ! The moment I knocked at the door she opened it , and asked me what I pleased to want . 
I looked at her with a smile , but she gave me no smile in return . 
I had never ceased to write to her , but it must have been seven years since we had met . 
'Is Mr. Barkis at home , ma'am ? I said , feigning to speak roughly to her . 
'He's at home , sir , returned Peggotty , 'but he's bad abed with the rheumatics . 
'Don't he go over to Blunderstone now ? I asked . 
'When he's well he do , she answered . 
'Do YOU ever go there , Mrs. Barkis ? She looked at me more attentively , and I noticed a quick movement of her hands towards each other . 
'Peggotty ! I cried to her . 
She cried , 'My darling boy ! and we both burst into tears , and were locked in one another's arms . 
I was troubled with no misgiving that it was young in me to respond to her emotions . 
I had never laughed and cried in all my life , I dare say not even to her more freely than I did that morning . 
'Barkis will be so glad , said Peggotty , wiping her eyes with her apron , 'that it'll do him more good than pints of liniment . 
May I go and tell him you are here ? Will you come up and see him , my dear ? Of course I would . 
He received me with absolute enthusiasm . 
He was too rheumatic to be shaken hands with , but he begged me to shake the tassel on the top of his nightcap , which I did most cordially . 
'What name was it , as I wrote up in the cart , sir ? said Mr. Barkis , with a slow rheumatic smile . 
'Ah ! Mr. Barkis , we had some grave talks about that matter , hadn't we ? 'I was willin' a long time , sir ? said Mr. Barkis . 
'A long time , said I. 'And I don't regret it , said Mr. Barkis . 
'Do you remember what you told me once , about her making all the apple parsties and doing all the cooking ? 'Yes , very well , I returned . 
'It was as true , said Mr. Barkis , 'as turnips is . 
It was as true , said Mr. Barkis , nodding his nightcap , which was his only means of emphasis , 'as taxes is . 
And nothing's truer than them . 
Mr. Barkis turned his eyes upon me , as if for my assent to this result of his reflections in bed and I gave it . 
'Nothing's truer than them , repeated Mr. Barkis 'a man as poor as I am , finds that out in his mind when he's laid up . 
I'm a very poor man , sir ! 'I am sorry to hear it , Mr. Barkis . 
'A very poor man , indeed I am , said Mr. Barkis . 
Then his face became composed . 
'Old clothes , said Mr. Barkis . 
'Oh ! said I. 'I wish it was Money , sir , said Mr. Barkis . 
'I wish it was , indeed , said I. 'But it AIN'T , said Mr. Barkis , opening both his eyes as wide as he possibly could . 
I expressed myself quite sure of that , and Mr. Barkis , turning his eyes more gently to his wife , said 'She's the usefullest and best of women , C. P. Barkis . 
So I held my peace . 
'I have got a trifle of money somewhere about me , my dear , said Mr. Barkis , 'but I'm a little tired . 
If you and Mr. David will leave me for a short nap , I'll try and find it when I wake . 
We left the room , in compliance with this request . 
His satisfaction in which happy imposition on us , and in having preserved the impenetrable secret of the box , appeared to be a sufficient compensation to him for all his tortures . 
I prepared Peggotty for Steerforth's arrival and it was not long before he came . 
His manner to me , alone , would have won her . 
But , through all these causes combined , I sincerely believe she had a kind of adoration for him before he left the house that night . 
He stayed there with me to dinner if I were to say willingly , I should not half express how readily and gaily . 
He went into Mr. Barkis's room like light and air , brightening and refreshing it as if he were healthy weather . 
'Of course , he said . 
'You'll sleep here , while we stay , and I shall sleep at the hotel . 
'But to bring you so far , I returned , 'and to separate , seems bad companionship , Steerforth . 
'Why , in the name of Heaven , where do you naturally belong ? he said . 
'What is seems , compared to that ? It was settled at once . 
He maintained all his delightful qualities to the last , until we started forth , at eight o'clock , for Mr. Peggotty's boat . 
'This is a wild kind of place , Steerforth , is it not ? 'Dismal enough in the dark , he said 'and the sea roars as if it were hungry for us . 
Is that the boat , where I see a light yonder ? 'That's the boat , said I. 'And it's the same I saw this morning , he returned . 
'I came straight to it , by instinct , I suppose . 
We said no more as we approached the light , but made softly for the door . 
I laid my hand upon the latch and whispering Steerforth to keep close to me , went in . 
But Mrs. Gummidge was not the only person there who was unusually excited . 
in the very act of springing from Ham to nestle in Mr. Peggotty's embrace . 
The little picture was so instantaneously dissolved by our going in , that one might have doubted whether it had ever been . 
'If you two gent'lmen gent'lmen growed now , and such gent'lmen said Mr. Peggotty . 
'So th' are , so th' are ! cried Ham . 
'Well said ! So th' are . 
Em'ly , my dear ! She knows I'm a going to tell , here his delight broke out again , 'and has made off . 
Would you be so good as look arter her , Mawther , for a minute ? Mrs. Gummidge nodded and disappeared . 
'If this ain't , said Mr. Peggotty , sitting down among us by the fire , 'the brightest night o' my life , I'm a shellfish biled too and more I can't say . 
'To be sure , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'That's her , and so she is . 
Ham nodded to me several times , as if he would have said so too . 
no one but a little bright eyed creetur can be in a house . 
She ain't my child I never had one but I couldn't love her more . 
You understand ! I couldn't do it ! 'I quite understand , said Steerforth . 
'I know you do , sir , returned Mr. Peggotty , 'and thankee again . 
And betwixt ourselves , sinking his voice lower yet , 'that woman's name ain't Missis Gummidge neither , though she has a world of merits . 
I thought I had never seen Ham grin to anything like the extent to which he sat grinning at us now . 
Now I could wish myself , you see , that our little Em'ly was in a fair way of being married . 
I could wish to see her , at all ewents , under articles to a honest man as had a right to defend her . 
'Well ! I counsels him to speak to Em'ly . 
He's big enough , but he's bashfuller than a little un , and he don't like . 
What ! Him ! says Em'ly . 
Him that I've know'd so intimate so many years , and like so much . 
Oh , Uncle ! I never can have him . 
Then I aways to him , and I says , I wish it could have been so , but it can't . 
But you can both be as you was , and wot I say to you is , Be as you was with her , like a man . 
He says to me , a shaking of my hand , I will ! he says . 
And he was honourable and manful for two year going on , and we was just the same at home here as afore . 
No , because he takes care on her , like a brother , arter dark , and indeed afore dark , and at all times . 
I see her grown up gent'lmen like a flower . 
I I love her true . 
I thought it affecting to see such a sturdy fellow as Ham was now , trembling in the strength of what he felt for the pretty little creature who had won his heart . 
I thought the simple confidence reposed in us by Mr. Peggotty and by himself , was , in itself , affecting . 
I was affected by the story altogether . 
How far my emotions were influenced by the recollections of my childhood , I don't know . 
Whether I had come there with any lingering fancy that I was still to love little Em'ly , I don't know . 
I know that I was filled with pleasure by all this but , at first , with an indescribably sensitive pleasure , that a very little would have changed to pain . 
Therefore , if it had depended upon me to touch the prevailing chord among them with any skill , I should have made a poor hand of it . 
But it depended upon Steerforth and he did it with such address , that in a few minutes we were all as easy and as happy as it was possible to be . 
Peggotty , he said , 'you are a thoroughly good fellow , and deserve to be as happy as you are tonight . 
My hand upon it ! Ham , I give you joy , my boy . 
At first little Em'ly didn't like to come , and then Ham went . 
Em'ly , indeed , said little all the evening but she looked , and listened , and her face got animated , and she was charming . 
, as if he saw it all before him and little Em'ly's eyes were fastened on him all the time , as if she saw it too . 
, in irresistible sympathy with what was so pleasant and light hearted . 
, since the decease of the old one . 
He left her so little leisure for being miserable , that she said next day she thought she must have been bewitched . 
But he set up no monopoly of the general attention , or the conversation . 
She sat , at this time , and all the evening , on the old locker in her old little corner by the fire Ham beside her , where I used to sit . 
As I remember , it was almost midnight when we took our leave . 
'A most engaging little Beauty ! said Steerforth , taking my arm . 
'Well ! It's a quaint place , and they are quaint company , and it's quite a new sensation to mix with them . 
'How fortunate we are , too , I returned , 'to have arrived to witness their happiness in that intended marriage ! I never saw people so happy . 
He had been so hearty with him , and with them all , that I felt a shock in this unexpected and cold reply . 
I wish we all were ! Next moment he was gaily singing Mr. Peggotty's song , as we walked at a round pace back to Yarmouth . 
CHAPTER SOME OLD SCENES , AND SOME NEW PEOPLE Steerforth and I stayed for more than a fortnight in that part of the country . 
We were very much together , I need not say but occasionally we were asunder for some hours at a time . 
Hence , on three or four days that I can at once recall , we went our several ways after an early breakfast , and met again at a late dinner . 
I haunted them , as my memory had often done , and lingered among them as my younger thoughts had lingered when I was far away . 
My reflections at these times were always associated with the figure I was to make in life , and the distinguished things I was to do . 
My echoing footsteps went to no other tune , but were as constant to that as if I had come home to build my castles in the air at a living mother's side . 
There were great changes in my old home . 
The ragged nests , so long deserted by the rooks , were gone and the trees were lopped and topped out of their remembered shapes . 
The garden had run wild , and half the windows of the house were shut up . 
It was occupied , but only by a poor lunatic gentleman , and the people who took care of him . 
MY nearest way to Yarmouth , in coming back from these long walks , was by a ferry . 
It landed me on the flat between the town and the sea , which I could make straight across , and so save myself a considerable circuit by the high road . 
Mr. Peggotty's house being on that waste place , and not a hundred yards out of my track , I always looked in as I went by . 
Steerforth was pretty sure to be there expecting me , and we went on together through the frosty air and gathering fog towards the twinkling lights of the town . 
He was so intent upon his own reflections that he was quite unconscious of my approach . 
This , indeed , he might easily have been if he had been less absorbed , for footsteps fell noiselessly on the sandy ground outside but even my entrance failed to rouse him . 
I was standing close to him , looking at him and still , with a heavy brow , he was lost in his meditations . 
He gave such a start when I put my hand upon his shoulder , that he made me start too . 
'You come upon me , he said , almost angrily , 'like a reproachful ghost ! 'I was obliged to announce myself , somehow , I replied . 
'Have I called you down from the stars ? 'No , he answered . 
'Up from anywhere , then ? said I , taking my seat near him . 
'I was looking at the pictures in the fire , he returned . 
'You would not have seen them , he returned . 
'I detest this mongrel time , neither day nor night . 
'I wish with all my soul I could guide myself better ! There was a passionate dejection in his manner that quite amazed me . 
He was more unlike himself than I could have supposed possible . 
Before I had well concluded , he began to laugh fretfully at first , but soon with returning gaiety . 
'Tut , it's nothing , Daisy ! nothing ! he replied . 
'I told you at the inn in London , I am heavy company for myself , sometimes . 
I have been a nightmare to myself , just now must have had one , I think . 
At odd dull times , nursery tales come up into the memory , unrecognized for what they are . 
I believe I have been confounding myself with the bad boy who didn't care , and became food for lions a grander kind of going to the dogs , I suppose . 
What old women call the horrors , have been creeping over me from head to foot . 
I have been afraid of myself . 
'You are afraid of nothing else , I think , said I. 'Perhaps not , and yet may have enough to be afraid of too , he answered . 
'So much for that ! he said , making as if he tossed something light into the air , with his hand . 
'Why , being gone , I am a man again , like Macbeth . 
broken up the feast with most admired disorder , Daisy . 
'But where are they all , I wonder ! said I. 'God knows , said Steerforth . 
'After strolling to the ferry looking for you , I strolled in here and found the place deserted . 
That set me thinking , and you found me thinking . 
The advent of Mrs. Gummidge with a basket , explained how the house had happened to be empty . 
Steerforth , after very much improving Mrs. Gummidge's spirits by a cheerful salutation and a jocose embrace , took my arm , and hurried me away . 
He had improved his own spirits , no less than Mrs. Gummidge's , for they were again at their usual flow , and he was full of vivacious conversation as we went along . 
'And so , he said , gaily , 'we abandon this buccaneer life tomorrow , do we ? 'So we agreed , I returned . 
'And our places by the coach are taken , you know . 
'Ay ! there's no help for it , I suppose , said Steerforth . 
'I have almost forgotten that there is anything to do in the world but to go out tossing on the sea here . 
I wish there was not . 
'As long as the novelty should last , said I , laughing . 
'Like enough , he returned 'though there's a sarcastic meaning in that observation for an amiable piece of innocence like my young friend . 
Well ! I dare say I am a capricious fellow , David . 
I know I am but while the iron is hot , I can strike it vigorously too . 
I could pass a reasonably good examination already , as a pilot in these waters , I think . 
Peggotty says you are a wonder , I returned . 
'A nautical phenomenon , eh ? laughed Steerforth . 
'Indeed he does , and you know how truly I know how ardent you are in any pursuit you follow , and how easily you can master it . 
And that amazes me most in you , Steerforth that you should be contented with such fitful uses of your powers . 
'Contented ? he answered , merrily . 
'I am never contented , except with your freshness , my gentle Daisy . 
As to fitfulness , I have never learnt the art of binding myself to any of the wheels on which the Ixions of these days are turning round and round . 
I missed it somehow in a bad apprenticeship , and now don't care about it . 
You know I have bought a boat down here ? 'What an extraordinary fellow you are , Steerforth ! I exclaimed , stopping for this was the first I had heard of it . 
'When you may never care to come near the place again ! 'I don't know that , he returned . 
'I have taken a fancy to the place . 
'Now I understand you , Steerforth ! said I , exultingly . 
'You pretend to have bought it for yourself , but you have really done so to confer a benefit on him . 
I might have known as much at first , knowing you . 
My dear kind Steerforth , how can I tell you what I think of your generosity ? 'Tush ! he answered , turning red . 
'The less said , the better . 
'She must be newly rigged , said Steerforth , 'and I shall leave Littimer behind to see it done , that I may know she is quite complete . 
Did I tell you Littimer had come down ? No. 'Oh yes ! came down this morning , with a letter from my mother . 
As our looks met , I observed that he was pale even to his lips , though he looked very steadily at me . 
I feared that some difference between him and his mother might have led to his being in the frame of mind in which I had found him at the solitary fireside . 
'Oh no ! he said , shaking his head , and giving a slight laugh . 
'Nothing of the sort ! Yes . 
He is come down , that man of mine . 
'The same as ever ? said I. 'The same as ever , said Steerforth . 
'Distant and quiet as the North Pole . 
He shall see to the boat being fresh named . 
She's the Stormy Petrel now . 
What does Mr. Peggotty care for Stormy Petrels ! I'll have her christened again . 
'By what name ? I asked . 
As he had continued to look steadily at me , I took it as a reminder that he objected to being extolled for his consideration . 
I could not help showing in my face how much it pleased me , but I said little , and he resumed his usual smile , and seemed relieved . 
He never leaves her ! Ham was a boat builder in these days , having improved a natural ingenuity in that handicraft , until he had become a skilled workman . 
He was in his working dress , and looked rugged enough , but manly withal , and a very fit protector for the blooming little creature at his side . 
I thought , as they came towards us , that they were well matched even in that particular . 
She withdrew her hand timidly from his arm as we stopped to speak to them , and blushed as she gave it to Steerforth and to me . 
When they passed on , after we had exchanged a few words , she did not like to replace that hand , but , still appearing timid and constrained , walked by herself . 
I thought all this very pretty and engaging , and Steerforth seemed to think so too , as we looked after them fading away in the light of a young moon . 
'That is a black shadow to be following the girl , said Steerforth , standing still 'what does it mean ? He spoke in a low voice that sounded almost strange to Me . 
'For no better reason , truly , than because I was thinking , he said , after a pause , 'of something like it , when it came by . 
'It's gone ! he returned , looking over his shoulder . 
'And all ill go with it . 
Now for our dinner ! But he looked again over his shoulder towards the sea line glimmering afar off , and yet again . 
Littimer was there , and had his usual effect upon me . 
, that they were tolerably well , he thanked me , and had sent their compliments . 
This was all , and yet he seemed to me to say as plainly as a man could say 'You are very young , sir you are exceedingly young . 
Miss Mowcher is down here . 
'Who ? cried Steerforth , much astonished . 
'Why , what on earth does she do here ? said Steerforth . 
'It appears to be her native part of the country , sir . 
She informs me that she makes one of her professional visits here , every year , sir . 
I met her in the street this afternoon , and she wished to know if she might have the honour of waiting on you after dinner , sir . 
'Do you know the Giantess in question , Daisy ? inquired Steerforth . 
I was obliged to confess I felt ashamed , even of being at this disadvantage before Littimer that Miss Mowcher and I were wholly unacquainted . 
'Then you shall know her , said Steerforth , 'for she is one of the seven wonders of the world . 
When Miss Mowcher comes , show her in . 
Her chin , which was what is called a double chin , was so fat that it entirely swallowed up the strings of her bonnet , bow and all . 
'What ! My flower ! she pleasantly began , shaking her large head at him . 
'You're there , are you ! Oh , you naughty boy , fie for shame , what do you do so far away from home ? Up to mischief , I'll be bound . 
I'm here and there , and where not , like the conjurer's half crown in the lady's handkercher . 
After a flight of stairs , it gives me as much trouble to draw every breath I want , as if it was a bucket of water . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! He's a pleasant wretch , but he wants principle . 
'What were you doing for Lady Mithers ? asked Steerforth . 
'That's tellings , my blessed infant , she retorted , tapping her nose again , screwing up her face , and twinkling her eyes like an imp of supernatural intelligence . 
'It was Walker , my sweet pet , replied Miss Mowcher , 'and he came of a long line of Walkers , that I inherit all the Hookey estates from . 
I never beheld anything approaching to Miss Mowcher's wink except Miss Mowcher's self possession . 
Altogether I was lost in amazement , and sat staring at her , quite oblivious , I am afraid , of the laws of politeness . 
From this employment she suddenly desisted , and said to Steerforth , much to my confusion 'Who's your friend ? 'Mr . 
Copperfield , said Steerforth 'he wants to know you . 
'Face like a peach ! standing on tiptoe to pinch my cheek as I sat . 
'Quite tempting ! I'm very fond of peaches . 
Happy to make your acquaintance , Mr. Copperfield , I'm sure . 
I said that I congratulated myself on having the honour to make hers , and that the happiness was mutual . 
'Oh , my goodness , how polite we are ! exclaimed Miss Mowcher , making a preposterous attempt to cover her large face with her morsel of a hand . 
'What do you mean , Miss Mowcher ? said Steerforth . 
'Look here ! taking something out . 
'Scraps of the Russian Prince's nails . 
Prince Alphabet turned topsy turvy , I call him , for his name's got all the letters in it , higgledy piggledy . 
'The Russian Prince is a client of yours , is he ? said Steerforth . 
'I believe you , my pet , replied Miss Mowcher . 
'I keep his nails in order for him . 
Twice a week ! Fingers and toes . 
'He pays well , I hope ? said Steerforth . 
'Pays , as he speaks , my dear child through the nose , replied Miss Mowcher . 
'None of your close shavers the Prince ain't . 
You'd say so , if you saw his moustachios . 
Red by nature , black by art . 
'By your art , of course , said Steerforth . 
'Forced to send for me . 
The climate affected his dye it did very well in Russia , but it was no go here . 
You never saw such a rusty Prince in all your born days as he was . 
Like old iron ! 'Is that why you called him a humbug , just now ? inquired Steerforth . 
'Oh , you're a broth of a boy , ain't you ? returned Miss Mowcher , shaking her head violently . 
'I said , what a set of humbugs we were in general , and I showed you the scraps of the Prince's nails to prove it . 
The Prince's nails do more for me in private families of the genteel sort , than all my talents put together . 
I always carry 'em about . 
If Miss Mowcher cuts the Prince's nails , she must be all right . 
I give 'em away to the young ladies . 
They put 'em in albums , I believe . 
is a system of Prince's nails ! said this least of women , trying to fold her short arms , and nodding her large head . 
Steerforth laughed heartily , and I laughed too . 
, and to look into the air with one eye , and to wink with the other . 
'Well , well ! she said , smiting her small knees , and rising , 'this is not business . 
Come , Steerforth , let's explore the polar regions , and have it over . 
She then selected two or three of the little instruments , and a little bottle , and asked if the table would bear . 
'I did not , said I. 'Well then , cried Miss Mowcher , I'll consent to live . 
Now , ducky , ducky , ducky , come to Mrs. Bond and be killed . 
'You're a pretty fellow ! said Miss Mowcher , after a brief inspection . 
'You'd be as bald as a friar on the top of your head in twelve months , but for me . 
'There's Charley Pyegrave , the duke's son , she said . 
'You know Charley ? peeping round into his face . 
'A little , said Steerforth . 
'What a man HE is ! THERE'S a whisker ! As to Charley's legs , if they were only a pair , they'd defy competition . 
Would you believe he tried to do without me in the Life Guards , too ? 'Mad ! said Steerforth . 
However , mad or sane , he tried , returned Miss Mowcher . 
'What does he do , but , lo and behold you , he goes into a perfumer's shop , and wants to buy a bottle of the Madagascar Liquid . 
'Charley does ? said Steerforth . 
But they haven't got any of the Madagascar Liquid . 
'What is it ? Something to drink ? asked Steerforth . 
'To drink ? returned Miss Mowcher , stopping to slap his cheek . 
'To doctor his own moustachios with , you know . 
There was a woman in the shop elderly female quite a Griffin who had never even heard of it by name . 
Begging pardon , sir , said the Griffin to Charley , it's not not not ROUGE , is it ? Rouge , said Charley to the Griffin . 
Now that , my child , continued Miss Mowcher , rubbing all the time as busily as ever , 'is another instance of the refreshing humbug I was speaking of . 
I say I do a little in that way myself . 
One Dowager , SHE calls it lip salve . 
Another , SHE calls it gloves . 
Another , SHE calls it tucker edging . 
Another , SHE calls it a fan . 
I call it whatever THEY call it . 
'Such things are not much in demand hereabouts . 
That sets me off again ! I haven't seen a pretty woman since I've been here , jemmy . 
'Not the ghost of one , replied Miss Mowcher . 
'We could show her the substance of one , I think ? said Steerforth , addressing his eyes to mine . 
'Eh , Daisy ? 'Yes , indeed , said I. 'Aha ? cried the little creature , glancing sharply at my face , and then peeping round at Steerforth's . 
'Umph ? The first exclamation sounded like a question put to both of us , and the second like a question put to Steerforth only . 
'A sister of yours , Mr. Copperfield ? she cried , after a pause , and still keeping the same look out . 
'Aye , aye ? 'No , said Steerforth , before I could reply . 
On the contrary , Mr. Copperfield used or I am much mistaken to have a great admiration for her . 
'Why , hasn't he now ? returned Miss Mowcher . 
'No , Miss Mowcher , I replied . 
'Aha ? she cried exactly as before . 
'Umph ? What a rattle I am ! Mr. Copperfield , ain't I volatile ? Her tone and look implied something that was not agreeable to me in connexion with the subject . 
So I said , in a graver manner than any of us had yet assumed 'She is as virtuous as she is pretty . 
She is engaged to be married to a most worthy and deserving man in her own station of life . 
I esteem her for her good sense , as much as I admire her for her good looks . 
'Well said ! cried Steerforth . 
'Hear , hear , hear ! Now I'll quench the curiosity of this little Fatima , my dear Daisy , by leaving her nothing to guess at . 
Do you observe ? Omer and Joram . 
The promise of which my friend has spoken , is made and entered into with her cousin Christian name , Ham surname , Peggotty occupation , boat builder also of this town . 
She lives with a relative Christian name , unknown surname , Peggotty occupation , seafaring also of this town . 
She is the prettiest and most engaging little fairy in the world . 
I admire her as my friend does exceedingly . 
When he ceased she became brisk again in an instant , and rattled away with surprising volubility . 
'Very well very well ! Quite a long story . 
If I understand any noddle in the world , I understand yours . 
Do you hear me when I tell you that , my darling ? I understand yours , peeping down into his face . 
, and if Mr. Copperfield will take the chair I'll operate on him . 
'What do you say , Daisy ? inquired Steerforth , laughing , and resigning his seat . 
'Will you be improved ? 'Thank you , Miss Mowcher , not this evening . 
'Don't say no , returned the little woman , looking at me with the aspect of a connoisseur 'a little bit more eyebrow ? 'Thank you , I returned , 'some other time . 
'Have it carried half a quarter of an inch towards the temple , said Miss Mowcher . 
'We can do it in a fortnight . 
'No , I thank you . 
'Go in for a tip , she urged . 
'No ? Let's get the scaffolding up , then , for a pair of whiskers . 
Come ! I could not help blushing as I declined , for I felt we were on my weak point , now . 
Thus assisted , she skipped down with much agility , and began to tie her double chin into her bonnet . 
'The fee , said Steerforth , 'is 'Five bob , replied Miss Mowcher , 'and dirt cheap , my chicken . 
Ain't I volatile , Mr. Copperfield ? I replied politely 'Not at all . 
'That's the Till ! observed Miss Mowcher , standing at the chair again , and replacing in the bag a miscellaneous collection of little objects she had emptied out of it . 
'Have I got all my traps ? It seems so . 
It won't do to be like long Ned Beadwood , when they took him to church to marry him to somebody , as he says , and left the bride behind . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! A wicked rascal , Ned , but droll ! Now , I know I'm going to break your hearts , but I am forced to leave you . 
You must call up all your fortitude , and try to bear it . 
Good bye , Mr. Copperfield ! Take care of yourself , jockey of Norfolk ! How I have been rattling on ! It's all the fault of you two wretches . 
I forgive you ! Bob swore ! as the Englishman said for Good night , when he first learnt French , and thought it so like English . 
'Ain't I volatile ? she added , as a commentary on this offer , and , with her finger on her nose , departed . 
Steerforth laughed to that degree , that it was impossible for me to help laughing too though I am not sure I should have done so , but for this inducement . 
She was the principal theme of our conversation during the evening and when we parted for the night Steerforth called after me over the banisters , 'Bob swore ! as I went downstairs . 
'I should have thought , said I , smiling , 'that that was a reason for your being in here too , Ham . 
'Well , Mas'r Davy , in a general way , so 't would be , he returned 'but look'ee here , Mas'r Davy , lowering his voice , and speaking very gravely . 
'It's a young woman , sir a young woman , that Em'ly knowed once , and doen't ought to know no more . 
When I heard these words , a light began to fall upon the figure I had seen following them , some hours ago . 
'It's a poor wurem , Mas'r Davy , said Ham , 'as is trod under foot by all the town . 
Up street and down street . 
The mowld o' the churchyard don't hold any that the folk shrink away from , more . 
'Did I see her tonight , Ham , on the sand , after we met you ? 'Keeping us in sight ? said Ham . 
'It's like you did , Mas'r Davy . 
I was once like you ! Those was solemn words , Mas'r Davy , fur to hear ! 'They were indeed , Ham . 
'I recollect her now ! cried I , recalling one of the two girls I had seen when I first went there . 
'I recollect her quite well ! 'Martha Endell , said Ham . 
'Two or three year older than Em'ly , but was at the school with her . 
'I never heard her name , said I. 'I didn't mean to interrupt you . 
'For the matter o' that , Mas'r Davy , replied Ham , 'all's told a'most in them words , Em'ly , Em'ly , for Christ's sake , have a woman's heart towards me . 
I was once like you ! She wanted to speak to Em'ly . 
I felt how true this was . 
I knew it , on the instant , quite as well as Ham . 
'So Em'ly writes in pencil on a bit of paper , he pursued , 'and gives it to her out o' winder to bring here . 
By and by she tells me what I tell you , Mas'r Davy , and asks me to bring her . 
What can I do ? She doen't ought to know any such , but I can't deny her , when the tears is on her face . 
He put his hand into the breast of his shaggy jacket , and took out with great care a pretty little purse . 
'With such a little money in it , Em'ly my dear . 
The door opened then , and Peggotty appeared , beckoning to Ham to come in . 
I would have kept away , but she came after me , entreating me to come in too . 
Even then , I would have avoided the room where they all were , but for its being the neat tiled kitchen I have mentioned more than once . 
The door opening immediately into it , I found myself among them before I considered whither I was going . 
The girl the same I had seen upon the sands was near the fire . 
She was sitting on the ground , with her head and one arm lying on a chair . 
I fancied , from the disposition of her figure , that Em'ly had but newly risen from the chair , and that the forlorn head might perhaps have been lying on her lap . 
Not a word was spoken when we first went in and the Dutch clock by the dresser seemed , in the silence , to tick twice as loud as usual . 
'Martha wants , she said to Ham , 'to go to London . 
'Why to London ? returned Ham . 
They both spoke as if she were ill in a soft , suppressed tone that was plainly heard , although it hardly rose above a whisper . 
'Better there than here , said a third voice aloud Martha's , though she did not move . 
'No one knows me there . 
'What will she do there ? inquired Ham . 
'She will try to do well , said little Em'ly . 
'You don't know what she has said to us . 
Does he do they aunt ? Peggotty shook her head compassionately . 
'I'll try , said Martha , 'if you'll help me away . 
I never can do worse than I have done here . 
'It's all yourn , Em'ly , I could hear him say . 
'I haven't nowt in all the wureld that ain't yourn , my dear . 
It ain't of no delight to me , except for you ! The tears rose freshly in her eyes , but she turned away and went to Martha . 
What she gave her , I don't know . 
I saw her stooping over her , and putting money in her bosom . 
She whispered something , as she asked was that enough ? 'More than enough , the other said , and took her hand and kissed it . 
Then Martha arose , and gathering her shawl about her , covering her face with it , and weeping aloud , went slowly to the door . 
She stopped a moment before going out , as if she would have uttered something or turned back but no word passed her lips . 
Making the same low , dreary , wretched moaning in her shawl , she went away . 
As the door closed , little Em'ly looked at us three in a hurried manner and then hid her face in her hands , and fell to sobbing . 
'Doen't , Em'ly ! said Ham , tapping her gently on the shoulder . 
'No ! no ! no ! cried little Em'ly , sobbing , and shaking her head . 
'I am not as good a girl as I ought to be . 
Not near ! not near ! And still she cried , as if her heart would break . 
'I try your love too much . 
I know I do ! she sobbed . 
'I'm often cross to you , and changeable with you , when I ought to be far different . 
You are never so to me . 
I am happy , all day long , in the thoughts of you . 
'Ah ! that's not enough ! she cried . 
'Martha has overset her , altogether . 
'Please , aunt , sobbed Em'ly , 'come here , and let me lay my head upon you . 
Oh , I am very miserable tonight , aunt ! Oh , I am not as good a girl as I ought to be . 
I am not , I know ! Peggotty had hastened to the chair before the fire . 
Em'ly , with her arms around her neck , kneeled by her , looking up most earnestly into her face . 
I want to feel a hundred times more thankful than I do . 
I want to feel more , what a blessed thing it is to be the wife of a good man , and to lead a peaceful life . 
, wept silently , while my old nurse hushed her like an infant . 
I saw her do , that night , what I had never seen her do before . 
I saw her innocently kiss her chosen husband on the cheek , and creep close to his bluff form as if it were her best support . 
I made a resolution , therefore , to keep it in my own breast and there it gave her image a new grace . 
While we were at breakfast , a letter was delivered to me from my aunt . 
For the present we had enough to do , in taking leave of all our friends . 
Peggotty and all her family were full of grief at our going . 
In a word , we departed to the regret and admiration of all concerned , and left a great many people very sorry behind US . 
Do you stay long here , Littimer ? said I , as he stood waiting to see the coach start . 
'No , sir , he replied 'probably not very long , sir . 
'He can hardly say , just now , observed Steerforth , carelessly . 
'He knows what he has to do , and he'll do it . 
'That I am sure he will , said I. Littimer touched his hat in acknowledgement of my good opinion , and I felt about eight years old . 
He touched it once more , wishing us a good journey and we left him standing on the pavement , as respectable a mystery as any pyramid in Egypt . 
At length Steerforth , becoming gay and talkative in a moment , as he could become anything he liked at any moment , pulled me by the arm 'Find a voice , David . 
What about that letter you were speaking of at breakfast ? 'Oh ! said I , taking it out of my pocket . 
'Which , of course , you have done ? 'Indeed I can't say I have , particularly . 
To tell you the truth , I am afraid I have forgotten it . 
'Well ! look about you now , and make up for your negligence , said Steerforth . 
'Look to the right , and you'll see a flat country , with a good deal of marsh in it look to the left , and you'll see the same . 
Look to the front , and you'll find no difference look to the rear , and there it is still . 
I laughed , and replied that I saw no suitable profession in the whole prospect which was perhaps to be attributed to its flatness . 
'What says our aunt on the subject ? inquired Steerforth , glancing at the letter in my hand . 
'What is a proctor , Steerforth ? said I. 'Why , he is a sort of monkish attorney , replied Steerforth . 
'He is , to some faded courts held in Doctors' Commons , a lazy old nook near St . 
Paul's Churchyard what solicitors are to the courts of law and equity . 
He is a functionary whose existence , in the natural course of things , would have terminated about two hundred years ago . 
I can tell you best what he is , by telling you what Doctors' Commons is . 
It's a place that has an ancient monopoly in suits about people's wills and people's marriages , and disputes among ships and boats . 
'Nonsense , Steerforth ! I exclaimed . 
'But advocates and proctors are not one and the same ? said I , a little puzzled . 
'Are they ? 'No , returned Steerforth , 'the advocates are civilians men who have taken a doctor's degree at college which is the first reason of my knowing anything about it . 
The proctors employ the advocates . 
Both get very comfortable fees , and altogether they make a mighty snug little party . 
On the whole , I would recommend you to take to Doctors' Commons kindly , David . 
They plume them selves on their gentility there , I can tell you , if that's any satisfaction . 
'That's a laudable proceeding on the part of our aunt , at all events , said Steerforth , when I mentioned it 'and one deserving of all encouragement . 
Daisy , my advice is that you take kindly to Doctors' Commons . 
I quite made up my mind to do so . 
If I had been round the world since we parted , we could hardly have been better pleased to meet again . 
'So you have left Mr. Dick behind , aunt ? said I. 'I am sorry for that . 
Ah , Janet , how do you do ? As Janet curtsied , hoping I was well , I observed my aunt's visage lengthen very much . 
'I am sorry for it , too , said my aunt , rubbing her nose . 
'I have had no peace of mind , Trot , since I have been here . 
Before I could ask why , she told me . 
'I am convinced , said my aunt , laying her hand with melancholy firmness on the table , 'that Dick's character is not a character to keep the donkeys off . 
I am confident he wants strength of purpose . 
I ought to have left Janet at home , instead , and then my mind might perhaps have been at ease . 
If ever there was a donkey trespassing on my green , said my aunt , with emphasis , 'there was one this afternoon at four o'clock . 
A cold feeling came over me from head to foot , and I know it was a donkey ! I tried to comfort her on this point , but she rejected consolation . 
'It was a donkey , said my aunt 'and it was the one with the stumpy tail which that Murdering sister of a woman rode , when she came to my house . 
This had been , ever since , the only name my aunt knew for Miss Murdstone . 
But my aunt wouldn't hear of it . 
But my aunt had her own ideas concerning London provision , and ate but little . 
'I suppose this unfortunate fowl was born and brought up in a cellar , said my aunt , 'and never took the air except on a hackney coach stand . 
I hope the steak may be beef , but I don't believe it . 
Nothing's genuine in the place , in my opinion , but the dirt . 
'Don't you think the fowl may have come out of the country , aunt ? I hinted . 
'Certainly not , returned my aunt . 
'It would be no pleasure to a London tradesman to sell anything which was what he pretended it was . 
I did not venture to controvert this opinion , but I made a good supper , which it greatly satisfied her to see me do . 
, and to fold her gown back over her knees , these being her usual preparations for warming herself before going to bed . 
I like it very much indeed . 
'Come ! said my aunt . 
'That's cheering ! 'I have only one difficulty , aunt . 
'Say what it is , Trot , she returned . 
'Now , my dear aunt , said I , drawing my chair nearer , 'I am uneasy in my mind about that . 
It's a large sum of money . 
You have expended a great deal on my education , and have always been as liberal to me in all things as it was possible to be . 
You have been the soul of generosity . 
Surely there are some ways in which I might begin life with hardly any outlay , and yet begin with a good hope of getting on by resolution and exertion . 
I am bent upon it so is Dick . 
I should like some people that I know to hear Dick's conversation on the subject . 
Perhaps I might have been better friends with your poor father . 
Perhaps I might have been better friends with that poor child your mother , even after your sister Betsey Trotwood disappointed me . 
When you came to me , a little runaway boy , all dusty and way worn , perhaps I thought so . 
From that time until now , Trot , you have ever been a credit to me and a pride and a pleasure . 
It was the first time I had heard my aunt refer to her past history . 
There was a magnanimity in her quiet way of doing so , and of dismissing it , which would have exalted her in my respect and affection , if anything could . 
'All is agreed and understood between us , now , Trot , said my aunt , 'and we need talk of this no more . 
Give me a kiss , and we'll go to the Commons after breakfast tomorrow . 
We had a long chat by the fire before we went to bed . 
At about mid day , we set out for the office of Messrs Spenlow and Jorkins , in Doctors' Commons . 
We were crossing to the former place , when I found that my aunt greatly accelerated her speed , and looked frightened . 
'Trot ! My dear Trot ! cried my aunt , in a terrified whisper , and pressing my arm . 
'I don't know what I am to do . 
'Don't be alarmed , said I. 'There's nothing to be afraid of . 
Step into a shop , and I'll soon get rid of this fellow . 
'No , no , child ! she returned . 
'Don't speak to him for the world . 
I entreat , I order you ! 'Good Heaven , aunt ! said I. 'He is nothing but a sturdy beggar . 
'You don't know what he is ! replied my aunt . 
'You don't know who he is ! You don't know what you say ! We had stopped in an empty door way , while this was passing , and he had stopped too . 
'Don't look at him ! said my aunt , as I turned my head indignantly , 'but get me a coach , my dear , and wait for me in St . 
'Wait for you ? I replied . 
'Yes , rejoined my aunt . 
I must go with him . 
'With him , aunt ? This man ? 'I am in my senses , she replied , 'and I tell you I must . 
Get mea coach ! However much astonished I might be , I was sensible that I had no right to refuse compliance with such a peremptory command . 
I hurried away a few paces , and called a hackney chariot which was passing empty . 
Almost before I could let down the steps , my aunt sprang in , I don't know how , and the man followed . 
She waved her hand to me to go away , so earnestly , that , all confounded as I was , I turned from them at once . 
In doing so , I heard her say to the coachman , 'Drive anywhere ! Drive straight on ! and presently the chariot passed me , going up the hill . 
What Mr. Dick had told me , and what I had supposed to be a delusion of his , now came into my mind . 
After half an hour's cooling in the churchyard , I saw the chariot coming back . 
The driver stopped beside me , and my aunt was sitting in it alone . 
She had not yet sufficiently recovered from her agitation to be quite prepared for the visit we had to make . 
She desired me to get into the chariot , and to tell the coachman to drive slowly up and down a little while . 
On her giving me her purse to pay the driver , I found that all the guineas were gone , and only the loose silver remained . 
Doctors' Commons was approached by a little low archway . 
Before we had taken many paces down the street beyond it , the noise of the city seemed to melt , as if by magic , into a softened distance . 
Spenlow's in Court , ma'am , said the dry man 'it's an Arches day but it's close by , and I'll send for him directly . 
As we were left to look about us while Mr. Spenlow was fetched , I availed myself of the opportunity . 
All this looked tolerably expensive , I thought , and gave me an agreeable notion of a proctor's business . 
He was a little light haired gentleman , with undeniable boots , and the stiffest of white cravats and shirt collars . 
He was buttoned up , mighty trim and tight , and must have taken a great deal of pains with his whiskers , which were accurately curled . 
I had previously been presented by my aunt , and had been courteously received . 
Miss Trotwood was good enough to mention that she had a nephew who was her peculiar care , and for whom she was seeking to provide genteelly in life . 
That nephew , I believe , I have now the pleasure of' Punch again . 
I bowed my acknowledgements , and said , my aunt had mentioned to me that there was that opening , and that I believed I should like it very much . 
That I was strongly inclined to like it , and had taken immediately to the proposal . 
That I could not absolutely pledge myself to like it , until I knew something more about it . 
That although it was little else than a matter of form , I presumed I should have an opportunity of trying how I liked it , before I bound myself to it irrevocably . 
'Oh surely ! surely ! said Mr. Spenlow . 
'We always , in this house , propose a month an initiatory month . 
I should be happy , myself , to propose two months three an indefinite period , in fact but I have a partner . 
'And the premium , sir , I returned , 'is a thousand pounds ? 'And the premium , Stamp included , is a thousand pounds , said Mr. Spenlow . 
Mr. Jorkins thinks a thousand pounds too little , in short . 
I will not say what consideration I might give to that point myself , Mr. Copperfield , if I were unfettered . 
I was quite dismayed by the idea of this terrible Jorkins . 
If a clerk wanted his salary raised , Mr. Jorkins wouldn't listen to such a proposition . 
to the feelings of Mr. Spenlow , Mr. Jorkins would have his bond . 
The heart and hand of the good angel Spenlow would have been always open , but for the restraining demon Jorkins . 
When we had got so far , Mr. Spenlow offered to take me into Court then and there , and show me what sort of place it was . 
We arrived at Lincoln's Inn Fields without any new adventures , except encountering an unlucky donkey in a costermonger's cart , who suggested painful associations to my aunt . 
'I have not been here a week tomorrow , without considering that too , my dear , she returned . 
'There is a furnished little set of chambers to be let in the Adelphi , Trot , which ought to suit you to a marvel . 
Terms moderate , and could be taken for a month only , if required . 
'Why , this is the very thing , aunt ! said I , flushed with the possible dignity of living in chambers . 
'Then come , replied my aunt , immediately resuming the bonnet she had a minute before laid aside . 
'We'll go and look at 'em . 
The advertisement directed us to apply to Mrs. Crupp on the premises , and we rung the area bell , which we supposed to communicate with Mrs. Crupp . 
'Let us see these chambers of yours , if you please , ma'am , said my aunt . 
'For this gentleman ? said Mrs. Crupp , feeling in her pocket for her keys . 
'Yes , for my nephew , said my aunt . 
'And a sweet set they is for sich ! said Mrs. Crupp . 
The furniture was rather faded , but quite good enough for me and , sure enough , the river was outside the windows . 
After a single combat of some duration they returned , and I saw , to my joy , both in Mrs. Crupp's countenance and in my aunt's , that the deed was done . 
'Is it the last occupant's furniture ? inquired my aunt . 
'Yes , it is , ma'am , said Mrs. Crupp . 
'What's become of him ? asked my aunt . 
Mrs. Crupp was taken with a troublesome cough , in the midst of which she articulated with much difficulty . 
'He was took ill here , ma'am , and ugh ! ugh ! ugh ! dear me ! and he died ! 'Hey ! What did he die of ? asked my aunt . 
'Well , ma'am , he died of drink , said Mrs. Crupp , in confidence . 
'Smoke ? You don't mean chimneys ? said my aunt . 
'No , ma'am , returned Mrs. Crupp . 
'That's not catching , Trot , at any rate , remarked my aunt , turning to me . 
Mrs. Crupp was to find linen , and to cook every other necessary was already provided and Mrs. Crupp expressly intimated that she should always yearn towards me as a son . 
All this , I say , was wonderfully fine but I must say , too , that there were times when it was very dreary . 
It was fine in the morning , particularly in the fine mornings . 
It looked a very fresh , free life , by daylight still fresher , and more free , by sunlight . 
But as the day declined , the life seemed to go down too . 
I don't know how it was it seldom looked well by candle light . 
I wanted somebody to talk to , then . 
I found a tremendous blank , in the place of that smiling repository of my confidence . 
Mrs. Crupp appeared to be a long way off . 
Steerforth not yet appearing , which induced me to apprehend that he must be ill , I left the Commons early on the third day , and walked out to Highgate . 
Mrs. Steerforth was very glad to see me , and said that he had gone away with one of his Oxford friends to see another who lived near St . 
Albans , but that she expected him to return tomorrow . 
I was so fond of him , that I felt quite jealous of his Oxford friends . 
As she pressed me to stay to dinner , I remained , and I believe we talked about nothing but him all day . 
I told her how much the people liked him at Yarmouth , and what a delightful companion he had been . 
I could not help thinking , several times in the course of the evening , and particularly when I walked home at night , what delightful company she would be in Buckingham Street . 
'I tell you what , old boy , he added , 'I shall make quite a town house of this place , unless you give me notice to quit . 
This was a delightful hearing . 
I told him if he waited for that , he would have to wait till doomsday . 
'No , no ! said Steerforth . 
'Don't ring ! I can't ! I am going to breakfast with one of these fellows who is at the Piazza Hotel , in Covent Garden . 
'But you'll come back to dinner ? said I. 'I can't , upon my life . 
There's nothing I should like better , but I must remain with these two fellows . 
We are all three off together tomorrow morning . 
'Then bring them here to dinner , I returned . 
'Do you think they would come ? 'Oh ! they would come fast enough , said Steerforth 'but we should inconvenience you . 
You had better come and dine with us somewhere . 
I had a new pride in my rooms after his approval of them , and burned with a desire to develop their utmost resources . 
I therefore made him promise positively in the names of his two friends , and we appointed six o'clock as the dinner hour . 
When he was gone , I rang for Mrs. Crupp , and acquainted her with my desperate design . 
I said , certainly we would have him . 
, and that 'a young gal' stationed in the pantry with a bedroom candle , there never to desist from washing plates , would be indispensable . 
I said , what would be the expense of this young female ? and Mrs. Crupp said she supposed eighteenpence would neither make me nor break me . 
I said I supposed not and THAT was settled . 
Then Mrs. Crupp said , Now about the dinner . 
As to a fish kittle , Mrs. Crupp said , well ! would I only come and look at the range ? She couldn't say fairer than that . 
Would I come and look at it ? As I should not have been much the wiser if I HAD looked at it , I declined , and said , 'Never mind fish . 
But Mrs. Crupp said , Don't say that oysters was in , why not them ? So THAT was settled . 
Mrs. Crupp then said what she would recommend would be this . 
a shape of jelly from the pastrycook's . 
I acted on Mrs. Crupp's opinion , and gave the order at the pastry cook's myself . 
These preparations happily completed , I bought a little dessert in Covent Garden Market , and gave a rather extensive order at a retail wine merchant's in that vicinity . 
, that I was absolutely frightened at them . 
One of Steerforth's friends was named Grainger , and the other Markham . 
They were both very gay and lively fellows Grainger , something older than Steerforth Markham , youthful looking , and I should say not more than twenty . 
I observed that the latter always spoke of himself indefinitely , as 'a man' , and seldom or never in the first person singular . 
'A man might get on very well here , Mr. Copperfield , said Markham meaning himself . 
'It's not a bad situation , said I , 'and the rooms are really commodious . 
'I hope you have both brought appetites with you ? said Steerforth . 
'Upon my honour , returned Markham , 'town seems to sharpen a man's appetite . 
A man is hungry all day long . 
A man is perpetually eating . 
Everything was very good we did not spare the wine and he exerted himself so brilliantly to make the thing pass off well , that there was no pause in our festivity . 
The 'young gal' likewise occasioned me some uneasiness not so much by neglecting to wash the plates , as by breaking them . 
, and did a great deal of destruction . 
Giving him private directions to seek the society of Mrs. Crupp , and to remove the 'young gal' to the basement also , I abandoned myself to enjoyment . 
I went on , by passing the wine faster and faster yet , and continually starting up with a corkscrew to open more wine , long before any was needed . 
I said he was my dearest friend , the protector of my boyhood , and the companion of my prime . 
I said I was delighted to propose his health . 
I said I owed him more obligations than I could ever repay , and held him in a higher admiration than I could ever express . 
I finished by saying , 'I'll give you Steerforth ! God bless him ! Hurrah ! We gave him three times three , and another , and a good one to finish with . 
I went on , by finding suddenly that somebody was in the middle of a song . 
Markham was the singer , and he sang 'When the heart of a man is depressed with care' . 
He said , when he had sung it , he would give us 'Woman ! I took objection to that , and I couldn't allow it . 
He said a man was not to be dictated to . 
I said a man was . 
He said a man was not to be insulted , then . 
I said he was right there never under my roof , where the Lares were sacred , and the laws of hospitality paramount . 
He said it was no derogation from a man's dignity to confess that I was a devilish good fellow . 
I instantly proposed his health . 
I was smoking , and trying to suppress a rising tendency to shudder . 
Steerforth had made a speech about me , in the course of which I had been affected almost to tears . 
I felt called upon to propose an individual . 
I would give them my aunt . 
I was addressing myself as 'Copperfield' , and saying , 'Why did you try to smoke ? You might have known you couldn't do it . 
Now , somebody was unsteadily contemplating his features in the looking glass . 
I was very pale in the looking glass my eyes had a vacant appearance and my hair only my hair , nothing else looked drunk . 
The theatre ? To be sure . 
Come along ! But they must excuse me if I saw everybody out first , and turned the lamp off in case of fire . 
Owing to some confusion in the dark , the door was gone . 
I was feeling for it in the window curtains , when Steerforth , laughing , took me by the arm and led me out . 
We went downstairs , one behind another . 
Near the bottom , somebody fell , and rolled down . 
Somebody else said it was Copperfield . 
I was angry at that false report , until , finding myself on my back in the passage , I began to think there might be some foundation for it . 
A very foggy night , with great rings round the lamps in the streets ! There was an indistinct talk of its being wet . 
Steerforth dusted me under a lamp post , and put my hat into shape , which somebody produced from somewhere in a most extraordinary manner , for I hadn't had it on before . 
Steerforth then said , 'You are all right , Copperfield , are you not ? and I told him , 'Neverberrer . 
whether to take the money for me or not . 
There was an abundance of bright lights , and there was music , and there were ladies down in the boxes , and I don't know what more . 
The whole building looked to me as if it were learning to swim it conducted itself in such an unaccountable manner , when I tried to steady it . 
On somebody's motion , we resolved to go downstairs to the dress boxes , where the ladies were . 
I see her face now , better than I did then , I dare say , with its indelible look of regret and wonder turned upon me . 
'Agnes ! I said , thickly , 'Lorblessmer ! Agnes ! 'Hush ! Pray ! she answered , I could not conceive why . 
Look at the stage ! I tried , on her injunction , to fix it , and to hear something of what was going on there , but quite in vain . 
I looked at her again by and by , and saw her shrink into her corner , and put her gloved hand to her forehead . 
Do not mind me , Trotwood , she returned . 
'Listen ! Are you going away soon ? 'Amigoarawaysoo ? I repeated . 
I had a stupid intention of replying that I was going to wait , to hand her downstairs . 
Go away now , Trotwood , for my sake , and ask your friends to take you home . 
got up and went away . 
Copperfield , Esquire , said the ticket porter , touching his hat with his little cane . 
I could scarcely lay claim to the name I was so disturbed by the conviction that the letter came from Agnes . 
However , I told him I was T. Copperfield , Esquire , and he believed it , and gave me the letter , which he said required an answer . 
I found , when I did open it , that it was a very kind note , containing no reference to my condition at the theatre . 
All it said was , 'My dear Trotwood . 
I am staying at the house of papa's agent , Mr. Waterbrook , in Ely Place , Holborn . 
Will you come and see me today , at any time you like to appoint ? Ever yours affectionately , AGNES . 
I must have written half a dozen answers at least . 
I began one note , in a six syllable line , 'Oh , do not remember' but that associated itself with the fifth of November , and became an absurdity . 
After many attempts , I wrote , 'My dear Agnes . 
Your letter is like you , and what could I say of it that would be higher praise than that ? I will come at four o'clock . 
, the ticket porter at last departed . 
Andrew's , Holborn , before I could muster up sufficient desperation to pull the private bell handle let into the left hand door post of Mr. Waterbrook's house . 
in the upper part of the building . 
I was shown into a pretty but rather close drawing room , and there sat Agnes , netting a purse . 
I cannot deny that I shed tears . 
To this hour I am undecided whether it was upon the whole the wisest thing I could have done , or the most ridiculous . 
'If it had been anyone but you , Agnes , said I , turning away my head , 'I should not have minded it half so much . 
But that it should have been you who saw me ! I almost wish I had been dead , first . 
'Sit down , said Agnes , cheerfully . 
'Don't be unhappy , Trotwood . 
If you cannot confidently trust me , whom will you trust ? 'Ah , Agnes ! I returned . 
'You are my good Angel ! She smiled rather sadly , I thought , and shook her head . 
I looked at her inquiringly but already with a foreknowledge of her meaning . 
'On warning you , said Agnes , with a steady glance , 'against your bad Angel . 
'My dear Agnes , I began , 'if you mean Steerforth 'I do , Trotwood , she returned . 
'Then , Agnes , you wrong him very much . 
'From what , then ? 'From many things trifles in themselves , but they do not seem to me to be so , when they are put together . 
I judge him , partly from your account of him , Trotwood , and your character , and the influence he has over you . 
There was always something in her modest voice that seemed to touch a chord within me , answering to that sound alone . 
It was always earnest but when it was very earnest , as it was now , there was a thrill in it that quite subdued me . 
It is that which makes me bold . 
I am certain that what I say is right . 
I am quite sure it is . 
I feel as if it were someone else speaking to you , and not I , when I caution you that you have made a dangerous friend . 
Again I looked at her , again I listened to her after she was silent , and again his image , though it was still fixed in my heart , darkened . 
You ought not hastily to do that . 
'Not until then ? said Agnes . 
'And when , Agnes , said I , 'will you forgive me the other night ? 'When I recall it , said Agnes . 
Who has succeeded to Miss Larkins , Trotwood ? 'No one , Agnes . 
'Someone , Trotwood , said Agnes , laughing , and holding up her finger . 
Then she asked me if I had seen Uriah . 
'Uriah Heep ? said I. 'No . 
Is he in London ? 'He comes to the office downstairs , every day , returned Agnes . 
'He was in London a week before me . 
I am afraid on disagreeable business , Trotwood . 
'What ? Uriah ? That mean , fawning fellow , worm himself into such promotion ! I cried , indignantly . 
'Have you made no remonstrance about it , Agnes ? Consider what a connexion it is likely to be . 
You must not allow your father to take such a mad step . 
You must prevent it , Agnes , while there's time . 
'Forced upon him , Agnes ! Who forces it upon him ? 'Uriah , she replied , after a moment's hesitation , 'has made himself indispensable to papa . 
He is subtle and watchful . 
There was more that she might have said more that she knew , or that she suspected I clearly saw . 
I could not give her pain by asking what it was , for I knew that she withheld it from me , to spare her father . 
'His ascendancy over papa , said Agnes , 'is very great . 
He professes humility and gratitude with truth , perhaps I hope so but his position is really one of power , and I fear he makes a hard use of his power . 
I said he was a hound , which , at the moment , was a great satisfaction to me . 
'And how did you receive it , Agnes ? 'I did , Trotwood , she replied , 'what I hope was right . 
Feeling sure that it was necessary for papa's peace that the sacrifice should be made , I entreated him to make it . 
I said it would lighten the load of his life I hope it will ! and that it would give me increased opportunities of being his companion . 
For I know how he has altered , in his devotion to me . 
I know how he has narrowed the circle of his sympathies and duties , in the concentration of his whole mind upon me . 
The beautiful , calm manner , which makes her so different in my remembrance from everybody else , came back again , as if a cloud had passed from a serene sky . 
'We are not likely to remain alone much longer , said Agnes , 'and while I have an opportunity , let me earnestly entreat you , Trotwood , to be friendly to Uriah . 
what may be uncongenial to you in him . 
He may not deserve it , for we know no certain ill of him . 
I accepted the invitation , and took my leave , making a call on Uriah in the office as I went out , and leaving a card for him in his absence . 
Conscience made cowards of us both . 
I found Uriah Heep among the company , in a suit of black , and in deep humility . 
He told me , when I shook hands with him , that he was proud to be noticed by me , and that he really felt obliged to me for my condescension . 
There were other guests all iced for the occasion , as it struck me , like the wine . 
At length I had a good view of him , and either my vision deceived me , or it was the old unfortunate Tommy . 
I made my way to Mr. Waterbrook , and said , that I believed I had the pleasure of seeing an old schoolfellow there . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Waterbrook , surprised . 
'You are too young to have been at school with Mr. Henry Spiker ? 'Oh , I don't mean him ! I returned . 
'I mean the gentleman named Traddles . 
'Oh ! Aye , aye ! Indeed ! said my host , with much diminished interest . 
'If it's really the same person , said I , glancing towards him , 'it was at a place called Salem House where we were together , and he was an excellent fellow . 
Traddles is a good fellow , returned my host nodding his head with an air of toleration . 
'Traddles is quite a good fellow . 
A very gentlemanly man , Mrs. Henry Spiker's brother , Mr. Copperfield . 
I murmured an assent , which was full of feeling , considering that I knew nothing at all about him and I inquired what Mr. Traddles was by profession . 
'Traddles , returned Mr. Waterbrook , 'is a young man reading for the bar . 
He is quite a good fellow nobody's enemy but his own . 
'Is he his own enemy ? said I , sorry to hear this . 
'Well , returned Mr. Waterbrook , pursing up his mouth , and playing with his watch chain , in a comfortable , prosperous sort of way . 
'I should say he was one of those men who stand in their own light . 
Yes , I should say he would never , for example , be worth five hundred pound . 
Traddles was recommended to me by a professional friend . 
He has a kind of talent for drawing briefs , and stating a case in writing , plainly . 
I am able to throw something in Traddles's way , in the course of the year something for him considerable . 
I was much impressed by the extremely comfortable and satisfied manner in which Mr. Waterbrook delivered himself of this little word 'Yes' , every now and then . 
There was wonderful expression in it . 
My reflections on this theme were still in progress when dinner was announced . 
Mr. Waterbrook went down with Hamlet's aunt . 
Mr. Henry Spiker took Mrs. Waterbrook . 
Agnes , whom I should have liked to take myself , was given to a simpering fellow with weak legs . 
Uriah , Traddles , and I , as the junior part of the company , went down last , how we could . 
Traddles and I were separated at table , being billeted in two remote corners he in the glare of a red velvet lady I , in the gloom of Hamlet's aunt . 
The dinner was very long , and the conversation was about the Aristocracy and Blood . 
Mrs. Waterbrook repeatedly told us , that if she had a weakness , it was Blood . 
It occurred to me several times that we should have got on better , if we had not been quite so genteel . 
We were so exceedingly genteel , that our scope was very limited . 
with the law business of the Bank and what with the Bank , and what with the Treasury , we were as exclusive as the Court Circular . 
To mend the matter , Hamlet's aunt had the family failing of indulging in soliloquy , and held forth in a desultory manner , by herself , on every topic that was introduced . 
These were few enough , to be sure but as we always fell back upon Blood , she had as wide a field for abstract speculation as her nephew himself . 
We might have been a party of Ogres , the conversation assumed such a sanguine complexion . 
'I confess I am of Mrs. Waterbrook's opinion , said Mr. Waterbrook , with his wine glass at his eye . 
that would prefer to do what I should call bow down before idols . 
Positively Idols ! Before service , intellect , and so on . 
But these are intangible points . 
We see Blood in a nose , and we know it . 
We meet with it in a chin , and we say , There it is ! That's Blood ! It is an actual matter of fact . 
It admits of no doubt . 
The simpering fellow with the weak legs , who had taken Agnes down , stated the question more decisively yet , I thought . 
'Oh , you know , deuce take it , said this gentleman , looking round the board with an imbecile smile , 'we can't forego Blood , you know . 
We must have Blood , you know . 
'That affair of the first bond for four thousand five hundred pounds has not taken the course that was expected , Spiker , said Mr. Gulpidge . 
'Do you mean the D. of A. 's ? said Mr. Spiker . 
'The C. of B. 's ! said Mr. Gulpidge . 
Mr. Spiker raised his eyebrows , and looked much concerned . 
'When the question was referred to Lord I needn't name him , said Mr. Gulpidge , checking himself 'I understand , said Mr. Spiker , 'N . 
Mr. Gulpidge darkly nodded 'was referred to him , his answer was , Money , or no release . 
'Lord bless my soul ! cried Mr. Spiker . 
'Money , or no release , repeated Mr. Gulpidge , firmly . 
'The next in reversion you understand me ? 'K . 
, said Mr. Spiker , with an ominous look . 
K. then positively refused to sign . 
He was attended at Newmarket for that purpose , and he point blank refused to do it . 
Mr. Spiker was so interested , that he became quite stony . 
'So the matter rests at this hour , said Mr. Gulpidge , throwing himself back in his chair . 
'Our friend Waterbrook will excuse me if I forbear to explain myself generally , on account of the magnitude of the interests involved . 
Mr. Waterbrook was only too happy , as it appeared to me , to have such interests , and such names , even hinted at , across his table . 
, and highly approved of the discretion that had been observed . 
He was greatly interested to hear that I knew Steerforth , and spoke of him with such warmth that I made him tell Agnes what he thought of him . 
But Agnes only looked at me the while , and very slightly shook her head when only I observed her . 
This caused me to remain until all the company were gone . 
He was close behind me when I went downstairs . 
He was close beside me , when I walked away from the house , slowly fitting his long skeleton fingers into the still longer fingers of a great Guy Fawkes pair of gloves . 
'There is no constraint in the case , said I. 'Will you come ? 'I should like to , very much , replied Uriah , with a writhe . 
'Well , then , come along ! said I. I could not help being rather short with him , but he appeared not to mind it . 
Agnes and hospitality prevailed , however , and I conducted him to my fireside . 
, he professed so much emotion , that I could joyfully have scalded him . 
It made me very uncomfortable to have him for a guest , for I was young then , and unused to disguise what I so strongly felt . 
'You have heard something , I des say , of a change in my expectations , Master Copperfield , I should say , Mister Copperfield ? observed Uriah . 
'Yes , said I , 'something . 
'Ah ! I thought Miss Agnes would know of it ! he quietly returned . 
'I'm glad to find Miss Agnes knows of it . 
, for having entrapped me into the disclosure of anything concerning Agnes , however immaterial . 
But I only drank my coffee . 
'What a prophet you have shown yourself , Mister Copperfield ! pursued Uriah . 
'Oh ! who would have thought it likely , Mister Copperfield ! returned Uriah , enthusiastically . 
'I am sure I didn't myself . 
I recollect saying with my own lips that I was much too umble . 
So I considered myself really and truly . 
He sat , with that carved grin on his face , looking at the fire , as I looked at him . 
'But the umblest persons , Master Copperfield , he presently resumed , 'may be the instruments of good . 
I am glad to think I have been the instrument of good to Mr. Wickfield , and that I may be more so . 
'Decidedly so , Mister Copperfield , replied Uriah . 
'Oh how glad I am you have not ! exclaimed Uriah . 
He said nothing at all . 
'Oh , very much so ! But I wish you'd call me Uriah , if you please . 
'Well ! Uriah , said I , bolting it out with some difficulty . 
'Thank you , he returned , with fervour . 
'Thank you , Master Copperfield ! It's like the blowing of old breezes or the ringing of old bellses to hear YOU say Uriah . 
Was I making any observation ? 'About Mr. Wickfield , I suggested . 
'Oh ! Yes , truly , said Uriah . 
'Ah ! Great imprudence , Master Copperfield . 
It's a topic that I wouldn't touch upon , to any soul but you . 
Even to you I can only touch upon it , and no more . 
If I had been obliged to look at him with him splay foot on Mr. Wickfield's head , I think I could scarcely have hated him more . 
There would have been loss , disgrace , I don't know what at all . 
I am the umble instrument of umbly serving him , and he puts me on an eminence I hardly could have hoped to reach . 
I recollect well how indignantly my heart beat , as I saw his crafty face , with the appropriately red light of the fire upon it , preparing for something else . 
'Master Copperfield , he began 'but am I keeping you up ? 'You are not keeping me up . 
I generally go to bed late . 
'Thank you , Master Copperfield ! I have risen from my umble station since first you used to address me , it is true but I am umble still . 
I hope I never shall be otherwise than umble . 
'Thank you ! He took out his pocket handkerchief , and began wiping the palms of his hands . 
'Miss Agnes , Master Copperfield 'Well , Uriah ? 'Oh , how pleasant to be called Uriah , spontaneously ! he cried and gave himself a jerk , like a convulsive fish . 
'You thought her looking very beautiful tonight , Master Copperfield ? 'I thought her looking as she always does superior , in all respects , to everyone around her , I returned . 
'Oh , thank you ! It's so true ! he cried . 
'Oh , thank you very much for that ! 'Not at all , I said , loftily . 
'There is no reason why you should thank me . 
'Why that , Master Copperfield , said Uriah , 'is , in fact , the confidence that I am going to take the liberty of reposing . 
has been in my breast for years . 
that all this had occurred before , at some indefinite time , and that I knew what he was going to say next , took possession of me . 
I asked him , with a better appearance of composure than I could have thought possible a minute before , whether he had made his feelings known to Agnes . 
'Oh no , Master Copperfield ! he returned 'oh dear , no ! Not to anyone but you . 
You see I am only just emerging from my lowly station . 
, and how I smooth the way for him , and keep him straight . 
, that I think she may come , on his account , to be kind to me . 
I fathomed the depth of the rascal's whole scheme , and understood why he laid it bare . 
You wouldn't wish to make unpleasantness . 
, you might , unbeknown , go against me rather , with my Agnes . 
I call her mine , you see , Master Copperfield . 
There's a song that says , I'd crowns resign , to call her mine ! I hope to do it , one of these days . 
'My Agnes is very young still and mother and me will have to work our way upwards , and make a good many new arrangements , before it would be quite convenient . 
So I shall have time gradually to make her familiar with my hopes , as opportunities offer . 
not to go against me ! He took the hand which I dared not withhold , and having given it a damp squeeze , referred to his pale faced watch . 
'Dear me ! he said , 'it's past one . 
The moments slip away so , in the confidence of old times , Master Copperfield , that it's almost half past one ! I answered that I had thought it was later . 
Not that I had really thought so , but because my conversational powers were effectually scattered . 
'Dear me ! he said , considering . 
'The ouse that I am stopping at a sort of a private hotel and boarding ouse , Master Copperfield , near the New River ed will have gone to bed these two hours . 
I never shall forget that night . 
The poker got into my dozing thoughts besides , and wouldn't come out . 
I thought , between sleeping and waking , that it was still red hot , and I had snatched it out of the fire , and run him through the body . 
I was so haunted at last by the idea , though I knew there was nothing in it , that I stole into the next room to look at him . 
Still , the long , long night seemed heavy and hopeless as ever , and no promise of day was in the murky sky . 
, it appeared to me as if the night was going away in his person . 
CHAPTER I FALL INTO CAPTIVITY I saw no more of Uriah Heep , until the day when Agnes left town . 
I was at the coach office to take leave of her and see her go and there was he , returning to Canterbury by the same conveyance . 
In the state of trouble into which his disclosure by my fire had thrown me , I had thought very much of the words Agnes had used in reference to the partnership . 
'I did what I hope was right . 
Feeling sure that it was necessary for papa's peace that the sacrifice should be made , I entreated him to make it . 
A miserable foreboding that she would yield to , and sustain herself by , the same feeling in reference to any sacrifice for his sake , had oppressed me ever since . 
I knew how she loved him . 
I knew what the devotion of her nature was . 
I knew from her own lips that she regarded herself as the innocent cause of his errors , and as owing him a great debt she ardently desired to pay . 
All this , doubtless , he knew thoroughly , and had , in his cunning , considered well . 
I could not get over this farewell glimpse of them for a long time . 
When Agnes wrote to tell me of her safe arrival , I was as miserable as when I saw her going away . 
Whenever I fell into a thoughtful state , this subject was sure to present itself , and all my uneasiness was sure to be redoubled . 
Hardly a night passed without my dreaming of it . 
It became a part of my life , and as inseparable from my life as my own head . 
I believe I had at this time some lurking distrust of Steerforth . 
I wrote to him most affectionately in reply to his , but I think I was glad , upon the whole , that he could not come to London just then . 
In the meantime , days and weeks slipped away . 
I was articled to Spenlow and Jorkins . 
But , he intimated that when she came home he should hope to have the pleasure of entertaining me . 
I knew that he was a widower with one daughter , and expressed my acknowledgements . 
Mr. Spenlow was as good as his word . 
Of course I said I would do him the favour and he was to drive me down in his phaeton , and to bring me back . 
When the day arrived , my very carpet bag was an object of veneration to the stipendiary clerks , to whom the house at Norwood was a sacred mystery . 
, went out of town together , and Mr. Spenlow and I drove away in the phaeton . 
The phaeton was a very handsome affair the horses arched their necks and lifted up their legs as if they knew they belonged to Doctors' Commons . 
We were very pleasant , going down , and Mr. Spenlow gave me some hints in reference to my profession . 
We took things much more easily in the Commons than they could be taken anywhere else , he observed , and that set us , as a privileged class , apart . 
Then , he launched into a general eulogium on the Commons . 
What was to be particularly admired in the Commons , was its compactness . 
It was the most conveniently organized place in the world . 
It was the complete idea of snugness . 
It lay in a nutshell . 
For example You brought a divorce case , or a restitution case , into the Consistory . 
You tried it in the Consistory . 
You made a quiet little round game of it , among a family group , and you played it out at leisure . 
Suppose you were not satisfied with the Consistory , what did you do then ? Why , you went into the Arches . 
Well , you played your round game out again . 
Still you were not satisfied . 
What did you do then ? Why , you went to the Delegates . 
That about the price of wheat per bushel , I modestly felt was too much for my strength , and quite settled the question . 
I have never , to this hour , got the better of that bushel of wheat . 
It has reappeared to annihilate me , all through my life , in connexion with all kinds of subjects . 
, I give up a subject for lost . 
I was not the man to touch the Commons , and bring down the country . 
'Here Miss Spenlow walks by herself , I thought . 
'Where is Miss Dora ? said Mr. Spenlow to the servant . 
, and I heard a voice say , 'Mr . 
All was over in a moment . 
I had fulfilled my destiny . 
I was a captive and a slave . 
I loved Dora Spenlow to distraction ! She was more than human to me . 
She was a Fairy , a Sylph , I don't know what she was anything that no one ever saw , and everything that everybody ever wanted . 
I was swallowed up in an abyss of love in an instant . 
There was no pausing on the brink no looking down , or looking back I was gone , headlong , before I had sense to say a word to her . 
'I , observed a well remembered voice , when I had bowed and murmured something , 'have seen Mr. Copperfield before . 
The speaker was not Dora . 
No the confidential friend , Miss Murdstone ! I don't think I was much astonished . 
To the best of my judgement , no capacity of astonishment was left in me . 
There was nothing worth mentioning in the material world , but Dora Spenlow , to be astonished about . 
I said , 'How do you do , Miss Murdstone ? I hope you are well . 
She answered , 'Very well . 
I said , 'How is Mr. Murdstone ? She replied , 'My brother is robust , I am obliged to you . 
Mr. Spenlow , who , I suppose , had been surprised to see us recognize each other , then put in his word . 
'I am glad to find , he said , 'Copperfield , that you and Miss Murdstone are already acquainted . 
Copperfield and myself , said Miss Murdstone , with severe composure , 'are connexions . 
We were once slightly acquainted . 
It was in his childish days . 
Circumstances have separated us since . 
I should not have known him . 
I replied that I should have known her , anywhere . 
'Miss Murdstone has had the goodness , said Mr. Spenlow to me , 'to accept the office if I may so describe it of my daughter Dora's confidential friend . 
My daughter Dora having , unhappily , no mother , Miss Murdstone is obliging enough to become her companion and protector . 
A passing thought occurred to me that Miss Murdstone , like the pocket instrument called a life preserver , was not so much designed for purposes of protection as of assault . 
The idea of dressing one's self , or doing anything in the way of action , in that state of love , was a little too ridiculous . 
I could only sit down before my fire , biting the key of my carpet bag , and think of the captivating , girlish , bright eyed lovely Dora . 
Dora was talking to an old gentleman with a grey head . 
Grey as he was and a great grandfather into the bargain , for he said so I was madly jealous of him . 
What a state of mind I was in ! I was jealous of everybody . 
I couldn't bear the idea of anybody knowing Mr. Spenlow better than I did . 
It was torturing to me to hear them talk of occurrences in which I had had no share . 
I don't remember who was there , except Dora . 
I have not the least idea what we had for dinner , besides Dora . 
My impression is , that I dined off Dora , entirely , and sent away half a dozen plates untouched . 
I sat next to her . 
She had the most delightful little voice , the gayest little laugh , the pleasantest and most fascinating little ways , that ever led a lost youth into hopeless slavery . 
She was rather diminutive altogether . 
So much the more precious , I thought . 
, I fell into a reverie , only disturbed by the cruel apprehension that Miss Murdstone would disparage me to her . 
The amiable creature with the polished head told me a long story , which I think was about gardening . 
I think I heard him say , 'my gardener' , several times . 
I seemed to pay the deepest attention to him , but I was wandering in a garden of Eden all the while , with Dora . 
My apprehensions of being disparaged to the object of my engrossing affection were revived when we went into the drawing room , by the grim and distant aspect of Miss Murdstone . 
But I was relieved of them in an unexpected manner . 
'David Copperfield , said Miss Murdstone , beckoning me aside into a window . 
I confronted Miss Murdstone alone . 
'David Copperfield , said Miss Murdstone , 'I need not enlarge upon family circumstances . 
They are not a tempting subject . 
'Far from it , ma'am , I returned . 
'Far from it , assented Miss Murdstone . 
'I do not wish to revive the memory of past differences , or of past outrages . 
I felt very fiery on my aunt's account but I said it would certainly be better , if Miss Murdstone pleased , not to mention her . 
I could not hear her disrespectfully mentioned , I added , without expressing my opinion in a decided tone . 
It may have been a mistaken one , or you may have ceased to justify it . 
That is not in question between us now . 
I belong to a family remarkable , I believe , for some firmness and I am not the creature of circumstance or change . 
I may have my opinion of you . 
You may have your opinion of me . 
I inclined my head , in my turn . 
'But it is not necessary , said Miss Murdstone , 'that these opinions should come into collision here . 
Under existing circumstances , it is as well on all accounts that they should not . 
As the chances of life have brought us together again , and may bring us together on other occasions , I would say , let us meet here as distant acquaintances . 
Family circumstances are a sufficient reason for our only meeting on that footing , and it is quite unnecessary that either of us should make the other the subject of remark . 
Do you approve of this ? 'Miss Murdstone , I returned , 'I think you and Mr. Murdstone used me very cruelly , and treated my mother with great unkindness . 
I shall always think so , as long as I live . 
But I quite agree in what you propose . 
Miss Murdstone shut her eyes again , and bent her head . 
These reminded me , in reference to Miss Murdstone's nature , of the fetters over a jail door suggesting on the outside , to all beholders , what was to be expected within . 
That I was lost in blissful delirium . 
That my soul recoiled from punch particularly . 
That when Miss Murdstone took her into custody and led her away , she smiled and gave me her delicious hand . 
That I caught a view of myself in a mirror , looking perfectly imbecile and idiotic . 
That I retired to bed in a most maudlin state of mind , and got up in a crisis of feeble infatuation . 
On my way through the hall , I encountered her little dog , who was called Jip short for Gipsy . 
The garden was cool and solitary . 
I walked about , wondering what my feelings of happiness would be , if I could ever become engaged to this dear wonder . 
As to marriage , and fortune , and all that , I believe I was almost as innocently undesigning then , as when I loved little Em'ly . 
I had not been walking long , when I turned a corner , and met her . 
I tingle again from head to foot as my recollection turns that corner , and my pen shakes in my hand . 
'On a Sunday morning , when I don't practise , I must do something . 
So I told papa last night I must come out . 
Besides , it's the brightest time of the whole day . 
that it was very bright to me then , though it had been very dark to me a minute before . 
It was in the state of my own feelings , I added bashfully to clench the explanation . 
I never saw such curls how could I , for there never were such curls ! as those she shook out to hide her blushes . 
'Have you ever been there ? 'No . 
'Oh ! I hope you'll go soon ! You would like it so much ! Traces of deep seated anguish appeared in my countenance . 
That she should hope I would go , that she should think it possible I could go , was insupportable . 
I depreciated Paris I depreciated France . 
I said I wouldn't leave England , under existing circumstances , for any earthly consideration . 
In short , she was shaking the curls again , when the little dog came running along the walk to our relief . 
He was mortally jealous of me , and persisted in barking at me . 
She took him up in her arms oh my goodness ! and caressed him , but he persisted upon barking still . 
He wouldn't let me touch him , when I tried and then she beat him . 
At length he was quiet well he might be with her dimpled chin upon his head ! and we walked away to look at a greenhouse . 
'You are not very intimate with Miss Murdstone , are you ? said Dora . 
'She is a tiresome creature , said Dora , pouting . 
'I can't think what papa can have been about , when he chose such a vexatious thing to be my companion . 
Who wants a protector ? I am sure I don't want a protector . 
Jip can protect me a great deal better than Miss Murdstone , can't you , Jip , dear ? He only winked lazily , when she kissed his ball of a head . 
As for me , every word was a new heap of fetters , riveted above the last . 
But , by good fortune the greenhouse was not far off , and these words brought us to it . 
It contained quite a show of beautiful geraniums . 
Miss Murdstone had been looking for us . 
She found us here and presented her uncongenial cheek , the little wrinkles in it filled with hair powder , to Dora to be kissed . 
Then she took Dora's arm in hers , and marched us into breakfast as if it were a soldier's funeral . 
How many cups of tea I drank , because Dora made it , I don't know . 
But , I perfectly remember that I sat swilling tea until my whole nervous system , if I had had any in those days , must have gone by the board . 
By and by we went to church . 
Miss Murdstone was between Dora and me in the pew but I heard her sing , and the congregation vanished . 
A sermon was delivered about Dora , of course and I am afraid that is all I know of the service . 
We had a quiet day . 
the judge had entreated two old Trinity Masters , for charity's sake , to come and help him out . 
If that sleepy old court could rouse itself , and present in any visible form the daydreams I have had in it about Dora , it would reveal my truth . 
I don't mean the dreams that I dreamed on that day alone , but day after day , from week to week , and term to term . 
I went there , not to attend to what was going on , but to think about Dora . 
And yet , wretched cripple as I made myself by this act of homage to Dora , I walked miles upon miles daily in the hope of seeing her . 
Not only was I soon as well known on the Norwood Road as the postmen on that beat , but I pervaded London likewise . 
Sometimes , at long intervals and on rare occasions , I saw her . 
Perhaps I saw her glove waved in a carriage window perhaps I met her , walked with her and Miss Murdstone a little way , and spoke to her . 
I was always looking out , as may be supposed , for another invitation to Mr. Spenlow's house . 
I was always being disappointed , for I got none . 
It was not , she remarked , so palatable to her , but it was the next best . 
she began to take in my presence . 
'Cheer up , sir , said Mrs. Crupp . 
'I can't abear to see you so , sir I'm a mother myself . 
I did not quite perceive the application of this fact to myself , but I smiled on Mrs. Crupp , as benignly as was in my power . 
'Come , sir , said Mrs. Crupp . 
I know what it is , sir . 
There's a lady in the case . 
Crupp ? I returned , reddening . 
'Oh , bless you ! Keep a good heart , sir ! said Mrs. Crupp , nodding encouragement . 
'Never say die , sir ! If She don't smile upon you , there's a many as will . 
You are a young gentleman to be smiled on , Mr. Copperfull , and you must learn your walue , sir . 
'What makes you suppose there is any young lady in the case , Mrs. Crupp ? said I. 'Mr . 
Copperfull , said Mrs. Crupp , with a great deal of feeling , 'I'm a mother myself . 
For some time Mrs. Crupp could only lay her hand upon her nankeen bosom , and fortify herself against returning pain with sips of her medicine . 
At length she spoke again . 
'When the present set were took for you by your dear aunt , Mr. Copperfull , said Mrs. Crupp , 'my remark were , I had now found summun I could care for . 
Thank Ev'in ! were the expression , I have now found summun I can care for ! You don't eat enough , sir , nor yet drink . 
A young gentleman may be over careful of himself , or he may be under careful of himself . 
He may brush his hair too regular , or too un regular . 
He may wear his boots much too large for him , or much too small . 
That is according as the young gentleman has his original character formed . 
But let him go to which extreme he may , sir , there's a young lady in both of 'em . 
Mrs. Crupp shook her head in such a determined manner , that I had not an inch of vantage ground left . 
Crupp , said I , 'I must beg you not to connect the young lady in my case with a barmaid , or anything of that sort , if you please . 
Copperfull , returned Mrs. Crupp , 'I'm a mother myself , and not likely . 
I ask your pardon , sir , if I intrude . 
I should never wish to intrude where I were not welcome . 
With these words , Mrs. Crupp , affecting to be very careful of the brandy which was all gone thanked me with a majestic curtsey , and retired . 
Having obtained from this clerk a direction to the academic grove in question , I set out , the same afternoon , to visit my old schoolfellow . 
I found that the street was not as desirable a one as I could have wished it to be , for the sake of Traddles . 
The general air of the place reminded me forcibly of the days when I lived with Mr. and Mrs. Micawber . 
Happening to arrive at the door as it was opened to the afternoon milkman , I was reminded of Mr. and Mrs. Micawber more forcibly yet . 
'Now , said the milkman to a very youthful servant girl . 
'Has that there little bill of mine been heerd on ? 'Oh , master says he'll attend to it immediate , was the reply . 
Now , I'm not a going to stand it , you know ! said the milkman , still throwing his voice into the house , and glaring down the passage . 
As to his dealing in the mild article of milk , by the by , there never was a greater anomaly . 
His deportment would have been fierce in a butcher or a brandy merchant . 
The voice of the youthful servant became faint , but she seemed to me , from the action of her lips , again to murmur that it would be attended to immediate . 
'Good , said the milkman . 
'Then you won't have none tomorrow . 
D'ye hear ? Not a fragment of milk you won't have tomorrow . 
I thought she seemed , upon the whole , relieved by the prospect of having any today . 
This done , he went away , muttering , and uttered the cry of his trade next door , in a vindictive shriek . 
'Does Mr. Traddles live here ? I then inquired . 
A mysterious voice from the end of the passage replied 'Yes . 
Upon which the youthful servant replied 'Yes . 
'Is he at home ? said I. Again the mysterious voice replied in the affirmative , and again the servant echoed it . 
When I got to the top of the stairs the house was only a story high above the ground floor Traddles was on the landing to meet me . 
He was delighted to see me , and gave me welcome , with great heartiness , to his little room . 
It was in the front of the house , and extremely neat , though sparely furnished . 
His table was covered with papers , and he was hard at work in an old coat . 
In a corner of the room was something neatly covered up with a large white cloth . 
I could not make out what that was . 
'Traddles , said I , shaking hands with him again , after I had sat down , 'I am delighted to see you . 
'I am delighted to see YOU , Copperfield , he returned . 
'I am very glad indeed to see you . 
'Oh ! You have chambers ? said I. 'Why , I have the fourth of a room and a passage , and the fourth of a clerk , returned Traddles . 
'Three others and myself unite to have a set of chambers to look business like and we quarter the clerk too . 
Half a crown a week he costs me . 
His old simple character and good temper , and something of his old unlucky fortune also , I thought , smiled at me in the smile with which he made this explanation . 
'It's not because I have the least pride , Copperfield , you understand , said Traddles , 'that I don't usually give my address here . 
It's only on account of those who come to me , who might not like to come here . 
For myself , I am fighting my way on in the world against difficulties , and it would be ridiculous if I made a pretence of doing anything else . 
'You are reading for the bar , Mr. Waterbrook informed me ? said I. 'Why , yes , said Traddles , rubbing his hands slowly over one another . 
'I am reading for the bar . 
The fact is , I have just begun to keep my terms , after rather a long delay . 
It's some time since I was articled , but the payment of that hundred pounds was a great pull . 
A great pull ! said Traddles , with a wince , as if he had had a tooth out . 
'Do you know what I can't help thinking of , Traddles , as I sit here looking at you ? I asked him . 
'That sky blue suit you used to wear . 
'Lord , to be sure ! cried Traddles , laughing . 
'Perhaps he might , said Traddles . 
'But dear me , there was a good deal of fun going on . 
'Do you think so ? returned Traddles . 
'Really ? Perhaps he was rather . 
But it's all over , a long while . 
Old Creakle ! 'You were brought up by an uncle , then ? said I. 'Of course I was ! said Traddles . 
'The one I was always going to write to . 
And always didn't , eh ! Ha , ha , ha ! Yes , I had an uncle then . 
He died soon after I left school . 
He was a retired what do you call it ! draper cloth merchant and had made me his heir . 
But he didn't like me when I grew up . 
'Do you really mean that ? said I. He was so composed , that I fancied he must have some other meaning . 
'Oh dear , yes , Copperfield ! I mean it , replied Traddles . 
'It was an unfortunate thing , but he didn't like me at all . 
He said I wasn't at all what he expected , and so he married his housekeeper . 
'And what did you do ? I asked . 
'I didn't do anything in particular , said Traddles . 
'Did you get nothing , Traddles , after all ? 'Oh dear , yes ! said Traddles . 
I had never been brought up to any profession , and at first I was at a loss what to do for myself . 
However , I began , with the assistance of the son of a professional man , who had been to Salem House Yawler , with his nose on one side . 
Do you recollect him ? No. He had not been there with me all the noses were straight in my day . 
'It don't matter , said Traddles . 
'I began , by means of his assistance , to copy law writings . 
That didn't answer very well and then I began to state cases for them , and make abstracts , and that sort of work . 
For I am a plodding kind of fellow , Copperfield , and had learnt the way of doing such things pithily . 
Well ! That put it in my head to enter myself as a law student and that ran away with all that was left of the fifty pounds . 
Yawler recommended me to one or two other offices , however Mr. Waterbrook's for one and I got a good many jobs . 
, 'I am at work for him at this minute . 
I suppose there never was a young man with less originality than I have . 
Now , Copperfield , you are so exactly what you used to be , with that agreeable face , and it's so pleasant to see you , that I sha'n't conceal anything . 
Therefore you must know that I am engaged . 
Engaged ! Oh , Dora ! 'She is a curate's daughter , said Traddles 'one of ten , down in Devonshire . 
Yes ! For he saw me glance , involuntarily , at the prospect on the inkstand . 
Wait and hope , we always say . 
'However , he said , 'it's not that we haven't made a beginning towards housekeeping . 
No , no we have begun . 
We must get on by degrees , but we have begun . 
Here , drawing the cloth off with great pride and care , 'are two pieces of furniture to commence with . 
This flower pot and stand , she bought herself . 
'It's an admirable piece of workmanship firm as a rock ! I praised them both , highly , and Traddles replaced the covering as carefully as he had removed it . 
'It's not a great deal towards the furnishing , said Traddles , 'but it's something . 
The table cloths , and pillow cases , and articles of that kind , are what discourage me most , Copperfield . 
So does the ironmongery candle boxes , and gridirons , and that sort of necessaries because those things tell , and mount up . 
I don't make much , but I don't spend much . 
In general , I board with the people downstairs , who are very agreeable people indeed . 
Both Mr. and Mrs. Micawber have seen a good deal of life , and are excellent company . 
'My dear Traddles ! I quickly exclaimed . 
'What are you talking about ? Traddles looked at me , as if he wondered what I was talking about . 
and Mrs. Micawber ! I repeated . 
I begged Traddles to ask his landlord to walk up . 
'I beg your pardon , Mr. Traddles , said Mr. Micawber , with the old roll in his voice , as he checked himself in humming a soft tune . 
'I was not aware that there was any individual , alien to this tenement , in your sanctum . 
Mr. Micawber slightly bowed to me , and pulled up his shirt collar . 
'How do you do , Mr. Micawber ? said I. 'Sir , said Mr. Micawber , 'you are exceedingly obliging . 
I am in statu quo . 
'And Mrs. Micawber ? I pursued . 
'Sir , said Mr. Micawber , 'she is also , thank God , in statu quo . 
'And the children , Mr. Micawber ? 'Sir , said Mr. Micawber , 'I rejoice to reply that they are , likewise , in the enjoyment of salubrity . 
All this time , Mr. Micawber had not known me in the least , though he had stood face to face with me . 
not a little amazed at this description of me . 
'It was at Canterbury where we last met . 
I replied that it was . 
The present is one of those momentous stages in the life of man . 
You find me , fallen back , FOR a spring and I have every reason to believe that a vigorous leap will shortly be the result . 
'My dear , said Mr. Micawber , leading her towards me , 'here is a gentleman of the name of Copperfield , who wishes to renew his acquaintance with you . 
She presently revived , however , and was really pleased to see me . 
Mr. Micawber was very anxious that I should stay to dinner . 
I should not have been averse to do so , but that I imagined I detected trouble , and calculation relative to the extent of the cold meat , in Mrs. Micawber's eye . 
I therefore pleaded another engagement and observing that Mrs. Micawber's spirits were immediately lightened , I resisted all persuasion to forego it . 
But I told Traddles , and Mr. and Mrs. Micawber , that before I could think of leaving , they must appoint a day when they would come and dine with me . 
to say a few words to an old friend , in confidence . 
I am at present , my dear Copperfield , engaged in the sale of corn upon commission . 
It is not an avocation of a remunerative description in other words , it does not pay and some temporary embarrassments of a pecuniary nature have been the consequence . 
, which I trust will enable me to provide , permanently , both for myself and for your friend Traddles , in whom I have an unaffected interest . 
Mrs. Micawber's family have been so good as to express their dissatisfaction at this state of things . 
CHAPTER Mr. MICAWBER'S GAUNTLET Until the day arrived on which I was to entertain my newly found old friends , I lived principally on Dora and coffee . 
The quantity of walking exercise I took , was not in this respect attended with its usual consequence , as the disappointment counteracted the fresh air . 
I think the extremities require to be at peace before the stomach will conduct itself with vigour . 
On the occasion of this domestic little party , I did not repeat my former extensive preparations . 
I merely provided a pair of soles , a small leg of mutton , and a pigeon pie . 
And here I may remark , that what I underwent from Mrs. Crupp , in consequence of the tyranny she established over me , was dreadful . 
I never was so much afraid of anyone . 
We made a compromise of everything . 
If I hesitated , she was taken with that wonderful disorder which was always lying in ambush in her system , ready , at the shortest notice , to prey upon her vitals . 
In short , I would have done anything in an honourable way rather than give Mrs. Crupp offence and she was the terror of my life . 
At the appointed time , my three visitors arrived together . 
They were all delighted with my residence . 
'My dear Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , 'this is luxurious . 
'He means , solicited by him , Mr. Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , archly . 
'He cannot answer for others . 
'My dear , returned Mr. Micawber with sudden seriousness , 'I have no desire to answer for others . 
I understand your allusion , my love . 
I regret it , but I can bear it . 
'Micawber ! exclaimed Mrs. Micawber , in tears . 
To divert his thoughts from this melancholy subject , I informed Mr. Micawber that I relied upon him for a bowl of punch , and led him to the lemons . 
His recent despondency , not to say despair , was gone in a moment . 
And the lark was never gayer than that excellent woman . 
I suppose I never ventured to inquire , but I suppose that Mrs. Crupp , after frying the soles , was taken ill . 
Because we broke down at that point . 
The pigeon pie was not bad , but it was a delusive pie the crust being like a disappointing head , phrenologically speaking full of lumps and bumps , with nothing particular underneath . 
There was a gridiron in the pantry , on which my morning rasher of bacon was cooked . 
We had it in , in a twinkling , and immediately applied ourselves to carrying Mr. Micawber's idea into effect . 
My own appetite came back miraculously . 
I am ashamed to record it , but I really believe I forgot Dora for a little while . 
I am satisfied that Mr. and Mrs. Micawber could not have enjoyed the feast more , if they had sold a bed to provide it . 
Traddles laughed as heartily , almost the whole time , as he ate and worked . 
Indeed we all did , all at once and I dare say there was never a greater success . 
'What's the matter ? I involuntarily asked . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , I was directed to come in . 
Is my master not here , sir ? 'No . 
'Have you not seen him , sir ? 'No don't you come from him ? 'Not immediately so , sir . 
'Did he tell you you would find him here ? 'Not exactly so , sir . 
But I should think he might be here tomorrow , as he has not been here today . 
'Is he coming up from Oxford ? 'I beg , sir , he returned respectfully , 'that you will be seated , and allow me to do this . 
With which he took the fork from my unresisting hand , and bent over the gridiron , as if his whole attention were concentrated on it . 
Mrs. Micawber put on her brown gloves , and assumed a genteel languor . 
Traddles ran his greasy hands through his hair , and stood it bolt upright , and stared in confusion on the table cloth . 
Meanwhile he took the mutton off the gridiron , and gravely handed it round . 
We all took some , but our appreciation of it was gone , and we merely made a show of eating it . 
As we severally pushed away our plates , he noiselessly removed them , and set on the cheese . 
All this was done in a perfect manner , and he never raised his eyes from what he was about . 
Yet his very elbows , when he had his back towards me , seemed to teem with the expression of his fixed opinion that I was extremely young . 
'Can I do anything more , sir ? I thanked him and said , No but would he take no dinner himself ? 'None , I am obliged to you , sir . 
'Is Mr. Steerforth coming from Oxford ? 'I beg your pardon , sir ? 'Is Mr. Steerforth coming from Oxford ? 'I should imagine that he might be here tomorrow , sir . 
I rather thought he might have been here today , sir . 
The mistake is mine , no doubt , sir . 
'If you should see him first said I. 'If you'll excuse me , sir , I don't think I shall see him first . 
'In case you do , said I , 'pray say that I am sorry he was not here today , as an old schoolfellow of his was here . 
'Indeed , sir ! and he divided a bow between me and Traddles , with a glance at the latter . 
'You saw the boat completed ? 'Yes , sir . 
I remained behind on purpose to see the boat completed . 
'I know ! He raised his eyes to mine respectfully . 
Steerforth has not seen it yet , I suppose ? 'I really can't say , sir . 
I think but I really can't say , sir . 
I wish you good night , sir . 
He comprehended everybody present , in the respectful bow with which he followed these words , and disappeared . 
Mr. Micawber , I may remark , had taken his full share of the general bow , and had received it with infinite condescension . 
'But punch , my dear Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , tasting it , 'like time and tide , waits for no man . 
Ah ! it is at the present moment in high flavour . 
My love , will you give me your opinion ? Mrs. Micawber pronounced it excellent . 
Mr. Micawber , at the then present moment , took a pull at his punch . 
So we all did Traddles evidently lost in wondering at what distant time Mr. Micawber and I could have been comrades in the battle of the world . 
'Ahem ! said Mr. Micawber , clearing his throat , and warming with the punch and with the fire . 
'My dear , another glass ? Mrs. Micawber said it must be very little but we couldn't allow that , so it was a glassful . 
'As we are quite confidential here , Mr. Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , sipping her punch , 'Mr . 
Traddles being a part of our domesticity , I should much like to have your opinion on Mr. Micawber's prospects . 
For corn , said Mrs. Micawber argumentatively , 'as I have repeatedly said to Mr. Micawber , may be gentlemanly , but it is not remunerative . 
Commission to the extent of two and ninepence in a fortnight cannot , however limited our ideas , be considered remunerative . 
We were all agreed upon that . 
If corn is not to be relied upon , what is ? Are coals to be relied upon ? Not at all . 
We have turned our attention to that experiment , on the suggestion of my family , and we find it fallacious . 
What is best suited to a person of Mr. Micawber's peculiar temperament is , I am convinced , a certainty . 
Traddles and I both expressed , by a feeling murmur , that this great discovery was no doubt true of Mr. Micawber , and that it did him much credit . 
'I will not conceal from you , my dear Mr. Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , 'that I have long felt the Brewing business to be particularly adapted to Mr. Micawber . 
I may have a conviction that Mr. Micawber's manners 'Hem ! Really , my dear , interposed Mr. Micawber . 
'My love , be silent , said Mrs. Micawber , laying her brown glove on his hand . 
'I may have a conviction , Mr. Copperfield , that Mr. Micawber's manners peculiarly qualify him for the Banking business . 
I shook my head , and said , 'Not a bit . 
Traddles also shook his head , and said , 'Not a bit . 
'What do I deduce from this ? Mrs. Micawber went on to say , still with the same air of putting a case lucidly . 
'Just so , returned Mrs. Micawber , 'It is precisely that . 
And the fact is , my dear Mr. Copperfield , that we can not live without something widely different from existing circumstances shortly turning up . 
Now I am convinced , myself , and this I have pointed out to Mr. Micawber several times of late , that things cannot be expected to turn up of themselves . 
We must , in a measure , assist to turn them up . 
I may be wrong , but I have formed that opinion . 
Both Traddles and I applauded it highly . 
'Very well , said Mrs. Micawber . 
'Then what do I recommend ? Here is Mr. Micawber with a variety of qualifications with great talent 'Really , my love , said Mr. Micawber . 
'Pray , my dear , allow me to conclude . 
'And here is Mr. Micawber without any suitable position or employment . 
Where does that responsibility rest ? Clearly on society . 
Then I would make a fact so disgraceful known , and boldly challenge society to set it right . 
Let the party immediately step forward . 
I ventured to ask Mrs. Micawber how this was to be done . 
'By advertising , said Mrs. Micawber 'in all the papers . 
'Advertising is rather expensive , I remarked , dubiously . 
'Exactly so ! said Mrs. Micawber , preserving the same logical air . 
'Quite true , my dear Mr. Copperfield ! I have made the identical observation to Mr. Micawber . 
to raise a certain sum of money on a bill . 
If the individuals in the Money Market oblige Mr. Micawber to sustain a great sacrifice , that is between themselves and their consciences . 
I view it , steadily , as an investment . 
I felt , but I am sure I don't know why , that this was self denying and devoted in Mrs. Micawber , and I uttered a murmur to that effect . 
Traddles , who took his tone from me , did likewise , still looking at the fire . 
I feel that the time is arrived when Mr. Micawber should exert himself and I will add assert himself , and it appears to me that these are the means . 
That my papa was too partial , I well know but that he was an observer of character in some degree , my duty and my reason equally forbid me to doubt . 
With these words , and resisting our entreaties that she would grace the remaining circulation of the punch with her presence , Mrs. Micawber retired to my bedroom . 
In the fervour of this impression , I congratulated Mr. Micawber on the treasure he possessed . 
He then returned to the punch , in the highest state of exhilaration . 
He was full of eloquence . 
He gave us to understand that in our children we lived again , and that , under the pressure of pecuniary difficulties , any accession to their number was doubly welcome . 
He said that Mrs. Micawber had latterly had her doubts on this point , but that he had dispelled them , and reassured her . 
As to her family , they were totally unworthy of her , and their sentiments were utterly indifferent to him , and they might I quote his own expression go to the Devil . 
Mr. Micawber then delivered a warm eulogy on Traddles . 
could lay no claim , but which , he thanked Heaven , he could admire . 
He feelingly alluded to the young lady , unknown , whom Traddles had honoured with his affection , and who had reciprocated that affection by honouring and blessing Traddles with her affection . 
Nothing but the serious assurance of his friend Copperfield to the contrary , he observed , could deprive him of the impression that his friend Copperfield loved and was beloved . 
Hear ! and tapping at the wall , by way of applause . 
Mrs. Micawber , tapping at the wall again to know if tea were ready , broke up this particular phase of our friendly conversation . 
the favourite ballads of 'The Dashing White Sergeant' , and 'Little Tafflin' . 
For both of these songs Mrs. Micawber had been famous when she lived at home with her papa and mama . 
It was between ten and eleven o'clock when Mrs. Micawber rose to replace her cap in the whitey brown paper parcel , and to put on her bonnet . 
Mr. Micawber took the opportunity of Traddles putting on his great coat , to slip a letter into my hand , with a whispered request that I would read it at my leisure . 
'Traddles , said I , 'Mr . 
Micawber don't mean any harm , poor fellow but , if I were you , I wouldn't lend him anything . 
'My dear Copperfield , returned Traddles , smiling , 'I haven't got anything to lend . 
'You have got a name , you know , said I. 'Oh ! You call THAT something to lend ? returned Traddles , with a thoughtful look . 
'Yes , to be sure ! I am very much obliged to you , Copperfield but I am afraid I have lent him that already . 
'For the bill that is to be a certain investment ? I inquired . 
This is the first I have heard of that one . 
I have been thinking that he will most likely propose that one , on the way home . 
'I hope there will be nothing wrong about it , said I. 'I hope not , said Traddles . 
'I should think not , though , because he told me , only the other day , that it was provided for . 
That was Mr. Micawber's expression , Provided for . 
Mr. Micawber looking up at this juncture to where we were standing , I had only time to repeat my caution . 
Traddles thanked me , and descended . 
I was never unmindful of Agnes , and she never left that sanctuary in my thoughts if I may call it so where I had placed her from the first . 
'Why , Daisy , old boy , dumb foundered ! laughed Steerforth , shaking my hand heartily , and throwing it gaily away . 
'I was so surprised at first , said I , giving him welcome with all the cordiality I felt , 'that I had hardly breath to greet you with , Steerforth . 
'Well , the sight of me is good for sore eyes , as the Scotch say , replied Steerforth , 'and so is the sight of you , Daisy , in full bloom . 
How are you , my Bacchanal ? 'I am very well , said I 'and not at all Bacchanalian tonight , though I confess to another party of three . 
'All of whom I met in the street , talking loud in your praise , returned Steerforth . 
'Who's our friend in the tights ? I gave him the best idea I could , in a few words , of Mr. Micawber . 
He laughed heartily at my feeble portrait of that gentleman , and said he was a man to know , and he must know him . 
'But who do you suppose our other friend is ? said I , in my turn . 
'Heaven knows , said Steerforth . 
'Not a bore , I hope ? I thought he looked a little like one . 
'Traddles ! I replied , triumphantly . 
'Who's he ? asked Steerforth , in his careless way . 
I observed that he did the same thing while I was getting out the remains of the pigeon pie , and so forth . 
'Why , Daisy , here's a supper for a king ! he exclaimed , starting out of his silence with a burst , and taking his seat at the table . 
'I shall do it justice , for I have come from Yarmouth . 
'I thought you came from Oxford ? I returned . 
'Not I , said Steerforth . 
'I have been seafaring better employed . 
'As to understanding him , you are a cleverer fellow than most of us , Daisy , if you can do that . 
'That's true , indeed , said I , moving my chair to the table . 
'So you have been at Yarmouth , Steerforth ! interested to know all about it . 
'Have you been there long ? 'No , he returned . 
'An escapade of a week or so . 
'And how are they all ? Of course , little Emily is not married yet ? 'Not yet . 
Going to be , I believe in so many weeks , or months , or something or other . 
I have not seen much of 'em . 
By the by' he laid down his knife and fork , which he had been using with great diligence , and began feeling in his pockets 'I have a letter for you . 
'From whom ? 'Why , from your old nurse , he returned , taking some papers out of his breast pocket . 
Steerforth , Esquire , debtor , to The Willing Mind that's not it . 
Patience , and we'll find it presently . 
Old what's his name's in a bad way , and it's about that , I believe . 
'Barkis , do you mean ? 'Yes ! still feeling in his pockets , and looking over their contents 'it's all over with poor Barkis , I am afraid . 
I saw a little apothecary there surgeon , or whatever he is who brought your worship into the world . 
He was mighty learned about the case , to me but the upshot of his opinion was , that the carrier was making his last journey rather fast . 
Put your hand into the breast pocket of my great coat on the chair yonder , and I think you'll find the letter . 
Is it there ? 'Here it is ! said I. 'That's right ! It was from Peggotty something less legible than usual , and brief . 
It informed me of her husband's hopeless state , and hinted at his being 'a little nearer' than heretofore , and consequently more difficult to manage for his own comfort . 
It said nothing of her weariness and watching , and praised him highly . 
It was written with a plain , unaffected , homely piety that I knew to be genuine , and ended with 'my duty to my ever darling' meaning myself . 
While I deciphered it , Steerforth continued to eat and drink . 
If we failed to hold our own , because that equal foot at all men's doors was heard knocking somewhere , every object in this world would slip from us . 
'Then I tell you what , Steerforth . 
I think I will go down and see my old nurse . 
She will take it so kindly that it will be a comfort and support to her . 
It is no great effort to make , I am sure , for such a friend as she has been to me . 
You can do no harm . 
'You have just come back , said I , 'and it would be in vain to ask you to go with me ? 'Quite , he returned . 
'I am for Highgate tonight . 
I have not seen my mother this long time , and it lies upon my conscience , for it's something to be loved as she loves her prodigal son . 
Bah ! Nonsense ! You mean to go tomorrow , I suppose ? he said , holding me out at arm's length , with a hand on each of my shoulders . 
'Yes , I think so . 
'Well , then , don't go till next day . 
I wanted you to come and stay a few days with us . 
'Would you love each other too much , without me ? 'Yes or hate , laughed Steerforth 'no matter which . 
Come ! Say the next day ! I said the next day and he put on his great coat and lighted his cigar , and set off to walk home . 
and walked with him as far as the open road a dull road , then , at night . 
I was undressing in my own room , when Mr. Micawber's letter tumbled on the floor . 
Thus reminded of it , I broke the seal and read as follows . 
It was dated an hour and a half before dinner . 
'SIR for I dare not say my dear Copperfield , 'It is expedient that I should inform you that the undersigned is Crushed . 
of an individual , in a state closely bordering on intoxication , employed by a broker . 
That individual is in legal possession of the premises , under a distress for rent . 
'After premising thus much , it would be a work of supererogation to add , that dust and ashes are for ever scattered 'On 'The 'Head 'Of 'WILKINS MICAWBER . 
until she was sixty , or any age that could be mentioned . 
We articled clerks , as germs of the patrician order of proctors , were treated with so much consideration , that I was almost my own master at all times . 
Mrs. Steerforth was pleased to see me , and so was Rosa Dartle . 
All day , she seemed to pervade the whole house . 
If I talked to Steerforth in his room , I heard her dress rustle in the little gallery outside . 
'You have been a long time , she said , 'without coming here . 
Is your profession really so engaging and interesting as to absorb your whole attention ? I ask because I always want to be informed , when I am ignorant . 
Is it really , though ? I replied that I liked it well enough , but that I certainly could not claim so much for it . 
'Oh ! I am glad to know that , because I always like to be put right when I am wrong , said Rosa Dartle . 
'You mean it is a little dry , perhaps ? 'Well , I replied 'perhaps it was a little dry . 
'Oh ! and that's a reason why you want relief and change excitement and all that ? said she . 
And I looked so , I have no doubt . 
'Miss Dartle , I returned , 'pray do not think 'I don't ! she said . 
'Oh dear me , don't suppose that I think anything ! I am not suspicious . 
I only ask a question . 
I don't state any opinion . 
I want to found an opinion on what you tell me . 
Then , it's not so ? Well ! I am very glad to know it . 
I have not seen him this long while , until last night . 
'What is he doing ? she said , with an eagerness that seemed enough to consume her like a fire . 
I firmly believe there is nothing . 
I hardly understand even what you mean . 
Mrs. Steerforth was particularly happy in her son's society , and Steerforth was , on this occasion , particularly attentive and respectful to her . 
The idea did not originate in my own discernment , I am bound to confess , but in a speech of Rosa Dartle's . 
She said at dinner 'Oh , but do tell me , though , somebody , because I have been thinking about it all day , and I want to know . 
'You want to know what , Rosa ? returned Mrs. Steerforth . 
'Pray , pray , Rosa , do not be mysterious . 
'Now you must really bear with me , because I ask for information . 
'I wish you would , said Mrs. Steerforth , with a smile . 
'Oh ! I really will , you know ! she answered . 
'I will learn frankness from let me see from James . 
'That I am sure of , she answered , with uncommon fervour . 
'If I am sure of anything , of course , you know , I am sure of that . 
'Oh ! It was only whether people , who are like each other in their moral constitution is that the phrase ? 'It's as good a phrase as another , said Steerforth . 
'Should you ? she retorted . 
'Dear me ! Supposing then , for instance any unlikely thing will do for a supposition that you and your mother were to have a serious quarrel . 
That would prevent it ? Why , of course it would . 
One other little circumstance connected with Miss Dartle I must not omit for I had reason to remember it thereafter , when all the irremediable past was rendered plain . 
That he should succeed , was no matter of surprise to me . 
That she should struggle against the fascinating influence of his delightful art delightful nature I thought it then did not surprise me either for I knew that she was sometimes jaundiced and perverse . 
He said it with a curious smile , which was gone directly and we went into the room and found her alone . 
my dear Rosa , don't ! Be kind for once , and sing us an Irish song . 
'What do you care for an Irish song ? she returned . 
'Much more than for any other . 
Here is Daisy , too , loves music from his soul . 
Sing us an Irish song , Rosa ! and let me sit and listen as I used to do . 
He did not touch her , or the chair from which she had risen , but sat himself near the harp . 
She stood beside it for some little while , in a curious way , going through the motion of playing it with her right hand , but not sounding it . 
At length she sat down , and drew it to her with one sudden action , and played and sang . 
I don't know what it was , in her touch or voice , that made that song the most unearthly I have ever heard in my life , or can imagine . 
There was something fearful in the reality of it . 
I was dumb when she leaned beside the harp again , playing it , but not sounding it , with her right hand . 
'What is the matter with Rosa ? said Mrs. Steerforth , coming in . 
'She has been an angel , mother , returned Steerforth , 'for a little while and has run into the opposite extreme , since , by way of compensation . 
'You should be careful not to irritate her , James . 
Her temper has been soured , remember , and ought not to be tried . 
Rosa did not come back and no other mention was made of her , until I went with Steerforth into his room to say Good night . 
Then he laughed about her , and asked me if I had ever seen such a fierce little piece of incomprehensibility . 
I expressed as much of my astonishment as was then capable of expression , and asked if he could guess what it was that she had taken so much amiss , so suddenly . 
'Oh , Heaven knows , said Steerforth . 
'Anything you like or nothing ! I told you she took everything , herself included , to a grindstone , and sharpened it . 
She is an edge tool , and requires great care in dealing with . 
Good night ! 'Good night ! said I , 'my dear Steerforth ! I shall be gone before you wake in the morning . 
Come ! Let us make that bargain . 
Think of me at my best , if circumstances should ever part us ! 'You have no best to me , Steerforth , said I , 'and no worst . 
You are always equally loved , and cherished in my heart . 
So much compunction for having ever wronged him , even by a shapeless thought , did I feel within me , that the confession of having done so was rising to my lips . 
I was up with the dull dawn , and , having dressed as quietly as I could , looked into his room . 
He was fast asleep lying , easily , with his head upon his arm , as I had often seen him lie at school . 
The time came in its season , and that was very soon , when I almost wondered that nothing troubled his repose , as I looked at him . 
But he slept let me think of him so again as I had often seen him sleep at school and thus , in this silent hour , I left him . 
Never more , oh God forgive you , Steerforth ! to touch that passive hand in love and friendship . 
Never , never more ! CHAPTER A LOSS I got down to Yarmouth in the evening , and went to the inn . 
It was ten o'clock when I went out . 
Many of the shops were shut , and the town was dull . 
When I came to Omer and Joram's , I found the shutters up , but the shop door standing open . 
As I could obtain a perspective view of Mr. Omer inside , smoking his pipe by the parlour door , I entered , and asked him how he was . 
'Why , bless my life and soul ! said Mr. Omer , 'how do you find yourself ? Take a seat . 
Smoke not disagreeable , I hope ? 'By no means , said I. 'I like it in somebody else's pipe . 
'What , not in your own , eh ? Mr. Omer returned , laughing . 
'All the better , sir . 
Bad habit for a young man . 
I smoke , myself , for the asthma . 
Mr. Omer had made room for me , and placed a chair . 
He now sat down again very much out of breath , gasping at his pipe as if it contained a supply of that necessary , without which he must perish . 
'I am sorry to have heard bad news of Mr. Barkis , said I. Mr. Omer looked at me , with a steady countenance , and shook his head . 
'Do you know how he is tonight ? I asked . 
'The very question I should have put to you , sir , returned Mr. Omer , 'but on account of delicacy . 
It's one of the drawbacks of our line of business . 
When a party's ill , we can't ask how the party is . 
The difficulty had not occurred to me though I had had my apprehensions too , when I went in , of hearing the old tune . 
On its being mentioned , I recognized it , however , and said as much . 
'Yes , yes , you understand , said Mr. Omer , nodding his head . 
Mr. Omer and I nodded at each other , and Mr. Omer recruited his wind by the aid of his pipe . 
'It's one of the things that cut the trade off from attentions they could often wish to show , said Mr. Omer . 
If I have known Barkis a year , to move to as he went by , I have known him forty years . 
But I can't go and say , how is he ? I felt it was rather hard on Mr. Omer , and I told him so . 
'I'm not more self interested , I hope , than another man , said Mr. Omer . 
'Look at me ! My wind may fail me at any moment , and it ain't likely that , to my own knowledge , I'd be self interested under such circumstances . 
I said , 'Not at all . 
'It ain't that I complain of my line of business , said Mr. Omer . 
Some good and some bad goes , no doubt , to all callings . 
What I wish is , that parties was brought up stronger minded . 
She knows what our real objects are , and she don't have any more alarms or suspicions about us , than if we was so many lambs . 
, to ask her how he is tonight and if you was to please to wait till they come back , they'd give you full partic'lers . 
He really had no breath to spare , and it was very alarming to see him laugh . 
'Why so ? I inquired . 
'Well , she's unsettled at present , said Mr. Omer . 
'It ain't that she's not as pretty as ever , for she's prettier I do assure you , she is prettier . 
It ain't that she don't work as well as ever , for she does . 
She WAS worth any six , and she IS worth any six . 
But somehow she wants heart . 
Mr. Omer's face and manner went for so much , that I could conscientiously nod my head , as divining his meaning . 
My quickness of apprehension seemed to please him , and he went on 'Now I consider this is principally on account of her being in an unsettled state , you see . 
You must always recollect of Em'ly , said Mr. Omer , shaking his head gently , 'that she's a most extraordinary affectionate little thing . 
The proverb says , You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear . 
Well , I don't know about that . 
I rather think you may , if you begin early in life . 
She has made a home out of that old boat , sir , that stone and marble couldn't beat . 
Now , you know , there's a struggle going on when that's the case . 
Why should it be made a longer one than is needful ? I listened attentively to the good old fellow , and acquiesced , with all my heart , in what he said . 
'Therefore , I mentioned to them , said Mr. Omer , in a comfortable , easy going tone , 'this . 
I said , Now , don't consider Em'ly nailed down in point of time , at all . 
Make it your own time . 
Her services have been more valuable than was supposed her learning has been quicker than was supposed Omer and Joram can run their pen through what remains and she's free when you wish . 
If she likes to make any little arrangement , afterwards , in the way of doing any little thing for us at home , very well . 
If she don't , very well still . 
We're no losers , anyhow . 
'Well , sir , her cousin you know it's a cousin she's going to be married to ? 'Oh yes , I replied . 
'Of course you do , said Mr. Omer . 
, and went and took as comfortable a little house as you or I could wish to clap eyes on . 
As it is , there's a postponement . 
'And Emily , Mr. Omer ? I inquired . 
'Has she become more settled ? 'Why that , you know , he returned , rubbing his double chin again , 'can't naturally be expected . 
The prospect of the change and separation , and all that , is , as one may say , close to her and far away from her , both at once . 
Barkis's death needn't put it off much , but his lingering might . 
Anyway , it's an uncertain state of matters , you see . 
'I see , said I. 'Consequently , pursued Mr. Omer , 'Em'ly's still a little down , and a little fluttered perhaps , upon the whole , she's more so than she was . 
Every day she seems to get fonder and fonder of her uncle , and more loth to part from all of us . 
A kind word from me brings the tears into her eyes and if you was to see her with my daughter Minnie's little girl , you'd never forget it . 
'Ah ! he rejoined , shaking his head , and looking very much dejected . 
A sad story , sir , however you come to know it . 
I never thought there was harm in the girl . 
I wouldn't wish to mention it before my daughter Minnie for she'd take me up directly but I never did . 
None of us ever did . 
Mr. Omer , hearing his daughter's footstep before I heard it , touched me with his pipe , and shut up one eye , as a caution . 
She and her husband came in immediately afterwards . 
He was past both Colleges , Mr. Chillip said , and the Hall could only poison him . 
Hearing this , and learning that Mr. Peggotty was there , I determined to go to the house at once . 
My low tap at the door was answered by Mr. Peggotty . 
He was not so much surprised to see me as I had expected . 
I shook hands with Mr. Peggotty , and passed into the kitchen , while he softly closed the door . 
Little Emily was sitting by the fire , with her hands before her face . 
Ham was standing near her . 
We spoke in whispers listening , between whiles , for any sound in the room above . 
'It's oncommon kind , said Ham . 
'Em'ly , my dear , cried Mr. Peggotty . 
The coldness of her hand when I touched it , I can feel yet . 
'It's such a loving art , said Mr. Peggotty , smoothing her rich hair with his great hard hand , 'that it can't abear the sorrer of this . 
It's nat'ral in young folk , Mas'r Davy , when they're new to these here trials , and timid , like my little bird , it's nat'ral . 
She clung the closer to him , but neither lifted up her face , nor spoke a word . 
'It's getting late , my dear , said Mr. Peggotty , 'and here's Ham come fur to take you home . 
'Lookee here ! As Em'ly wishes of it , and as she's hurried and frightened , like , besides , I'll leave her till morning . 
Let me stay too ! 'No , no , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'You doen't ought a married man like you or what's as good to take and hull away a day's work . 
And you doen't ought to watch and work both . 
You go home and turn in . 
You ain't afeerd of Em'ly not being took good care on , I know . 
Ham yielded to this persuasion , and took his hat to go . 
Even when he kissed her . 
I shut the door after him , that it might cause no disturbance of the quiet that prevailed and when I turned back , I found Mr. Peggotty still talking to her . 
'Now , I'm a going upstairs to tell your aunt as Mas'r Davy's here , and that'll cheer her up a bit , he said . 
'Sit ye down by the fire , the while , my dear , and warm those mortal cold hands . 
You doen't need to be so fearsome , and take on so much . 
But , whether it was really she , or whether it was a confusion of the shadows in the room , I don't know now . 
The probability of his ever doing so , appeared to me , when I saw him , to be very small . 
He was lying with his head and shoulders out of bed , in an uncomfortable attitude , half resting on the box which had cost him so much pain and trouble . 
His arm lay on it now . 
'Old clothes ! 'Barkis , my dear ! said Peggotty , almost cheerfully bending over him , while her brother and I stood at the bed's foot . 
'He's a going out with the tide , said Mr. Peggotty to me , behind his hand . 
They can't be born , unless it's pretty nigh in not properly born , till flood . 
He's a going out with the tide . 
It's ebb at half arter three , slack water half an hour . 
If he lives till it turns , he'll hold his own till past the flood , and go out with the next tide . 
We remained there , watching him , a long time hours . 
'He's coming to himself , said Peggotty . 
Mr. Peggotty touched me , and whispered with much awe and reverence . 
'They are both a going out fast . 
'Barkis , my dear ! said Peggotty . 
P. Barkis , he cried faintly . 
'No better woman anywhere ! 'Look ! Here's Master Davy ! said Peggotty . 
For he now opened his eyes . 
, I was as grateful , I rejoice to think , as even now I could wish myself to have been . 
But I am afraid I had a supreme satisfaction , of a personal and professional nature , in taking charge of Mr. Barkis's will , and expounding its contents . 
I may claim the merit of having originated the suggestion that the will should be looked for in the box . 
For years and years , Mr. Barkis had carried this box , on all his journeys , every day . 
That it might the better escape notice , he had invented a fiction that it belonged to 'Mr . 
Blackboy' , and was 'to be left with Barkis till called for' a fable he had elaborately written on the lid , in characters now scarcely legible . 
He had hoarded , all these years , I found , to good purpose . 
His property in money amounted to nearly three thousand pounds . 
All the rest he died possessed of , he bequeathed to Peggotty whom he left residuary legatee , and sole executrix of that his last will and testament . 
I felt myself quite a proctor when I read this document aloud with all possible ceremony , and set forth its provisions , any number of times , to those whom they concerned . 
I began to think there was more in the Commons than I had supposed . 
I did not see little Emily in that interval , but they told me she was to be quietly married in a fortnight . 
I did not attend the funeral in character , if I may venture to say so . 
We walked about the churchyard for an hour , after all was over and pulled some young leaves from the tree above my mother's grave . 
A dread falls on me here . 
A cloud is lowering on the distant town , towards which I retraced my solitary steps . 
I fear to approach it . 
I cannot bear to think of what did come , upon that memorable night of what must come again , if I go on . 
It is no worse , because I write of it . 
It would be no better , if I stopped my most unwilling hand . 
Nothing can undo it nothing can make it otherwise than as it was . 
My old nurse was to go to London with me next day , on the business of the will . 
Little Emily was passing that day at Mr. Omer's . 
We were all to meet in the old boathouse that night . 
Ham would bring Emily at the usual hour . 
I would walk back at my leisure . 
The brother and sister would return as they had come , and be expecting us , when the day closed in , at the fireside . 
Then I turned , and walked back towards Yarmouth . 
Rain was falling heavily by that time , and it was a wild night but there was a moon behind the clouds , and it was not dark . 
I was soon within sight of Mr. Peggotty's house , and of the light within it shining through the window . 
A little floundering across the sand , which was heavy , brought me to the door , and I went in . 
It looked very comfortable indeed . 
Mr. Peggotty had smoked his evening pipe and there were preparations for some supper by and by . 
The fire was bright , the ashes were thrown up , the locker was ready for little Emily in her old place . 
as if she had never left it . 
She had fallen back , already , on the society of the work box with St . 
Paul's upon the lid , the yard measure in the cottage , and the bit of wax candle and there they all were , just as if they had never been disturbed . 
Mrs. Gummidge appeared to be fretting a little , in her old corner and consequently looked quite natural , too . 
'You're first of the lot , Mas'r Davy ! said Mr. Peggotty with a happy face . 
'Doen't keep in that coat , sir , if it's wet . 
'Thank you , Mr. Peggotty , said I , giving him my outer coat to hang up . 
'So 'tis ! said Mr. Peggotty , feeling my shoulders . 
'As a chip ! Sit ye down , sir . 
It ain't o' no use saying welcome to you , but you're welcome , kind and hearty . 
'Thank you , Mr. Peggotty , I am sure of that . 
Well , Peggotty ! said I , giving her a kiss . 
'Cheer up , my pritty mawther ! said Mr. Peggotty . 
'Nothink's nat'ral to me but to be lone and lorn . 
'No , no , said Mr. Peggotty , soothing her sorrows . 
'Yes , yes , Dan'l ! said Mrs. Gummidge . 
'I ain't a person to live with them as has had money left . 
Thinks go too contrary with me . 
I had better be a riddance . 
'Why , how should I ever spend it without you ? said Mr. Peggotty , with an air of serious remonstrance . 
'Theer ! 'said Mr. Peggotty , cheerily . 
'Theer we are , Missis Gummidge ! Mrs. Gummidge slightly groaned . 
'Lighted up , accordin' to custom ! You're a wonderin' what that's fur , sir ! Well , it's fur our little Em'ly . 
You see , the path ain't over light or cheerful arter dark and when I'm here at the hour as she's a comin' home , I puts the light in the winder . 
That , you see , said Mr. Peggotty , bending over me with great glee , 'meets two objects . 
She says , says Em'ly , Theer's home ! she says . 
And likewise , says Em'ly , My uncle's theer ! Fur if I ain't theer , I never have no light showed . 
'You're a baby ! said Peggotty very fond of him for it , if she thought so . 
'I doen't know but I am . 
Not , you see , to look at . 
'Not azackly , observed Peggotty . 
'No , laughed Mr. Peggotty , 'not to look at , but to to consider on , you know . 
I doen't care , bless you ! Now I tell you . 
I takes 'em up and I put 'em down , and I touches of 'em as delicate as if they was our Em'ly . 
So 'tis with her little bonnets and that . 
I couldn't see one on 'em rough used a purpose not fur the whole wureld . 
There's a babby fur you , in the form of a great Sea Porkypine ! said Mr. Peggotty , relieving his earnestness with a roar of laughter . 
Peggotty and I both laughed , but not so loud . 
I've got into the way on it , you know . 
The night should have turned more wet since I came in , for he had a large sou'wester hat on , slouched over his face . 
'Wheer's Em'ly ? said Mr. Peggotty . 
Ham made a motion with his head , as if she were outside . 
As I passed him at the door , I saw , to my astonishment and fright , that he was deadly pale . 
He pushed me hastily into the open air , and closed the door upon us . 
'Ham ! what's the matter ? 'Mas'r Davy ! Oh , for his broken heart , how dreadfully he wept ! I was paralysed by the sight of such grief . 
I don't know what I thought , or what I dreaded . 
I could only look at him . 
It is always night there , and he is the only object in the scene . 
'You're a scholar , he said , hurriedly , 'and know what's right and best . 
Mr. Peggotty thrust forth his face and never could I forget the change that came upon it when he saw us , if I were to live five hundred years . 
, looking fixedly at me . 
'Read it , sir , he said , in a low shivering voice . 
I doen't know as I can understand . 
'I shall be fur away , he repeated slowly . 
'Stop ! Em'ly fur away . 
This will be found at night , many hours after , instead of me . 
Oh , if you knew how my heart is torn . 
Oh , for mercy's sake , tell uncle that I never loved him half so dear as now . 
Pray Heaven that I am going away from , have compassion on my uncle ! Tell him that I never loved him half so dear . 
Love some good girl that will be what I was once to uncle , and be true to you , and worthy of you , and know no shame but me . 
God bless all ! I'll pray for all , often , on my knees . 
If he don't bring me back a lady , and I don't pray for my own self , I'll pray for all . 
My parting love to uncle . 
My last tears , and my last thanks , for uncle ! That was all . 
He stood , long after I had ceased to read , still looking at me . 
At length I ventured to take his hand , and to entreat him , as well as I could , to endeavour to get some command of himself . 
He replied , 'I thankee , sir , I thankee ! without moving . 
Mr. Peggotty was so far sensible of HIS affliction , that he wrung his hand but , otherwise , he remained in the same state , and no one dared to disturb him . 
Slowly , at last , he moved his eyes from my face , as if he were waking from a vision , and cast them round the room . 
Then he said , in a low voice 'Who's the man ? I want to know his name . 
Ham glanced at me , and suddenly I felt a shock that struck me back . 
'There's a man suspected , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'Who is it ? 'Mas'r Davy ! implored Ham . 
'Go out a bit , and let me tell him what I must . 
You doen't ought to hear it , sir . 
I felt the shock again . 
I sank down in a chair , and tried to utter some reply but my tongue was fettered , and my sight was weak . 
'I want to know his name ! I heard said once more . 
'For some time past , Ham faltered , 'there's been a servant about here , at odd times . 
There's been a gen'lm'n too . 
Both of 'em belonged to one another . 
Mr. Peggotty stood fixed as before , but now looking at him . 
'The servant , pursued Ham , 'was seen along with our poor girl last night . 
He's been in hiding about here , this week or over . 
He was thought to have gone , but he was hiding . 
Doen't stay , Mas'r Davy , doen't ! I felt Peggotty's arm round my neck , but I could not have moved if the house had been about to fall upon me . 
'A strange chay and hosses was outside town , this morning , on the Norwich road , a'most afore the day broke , Ham went on . 
'The servant went to it , and come from it , and went to it again . 
When he went to it again , Em'ly was nigh him . 
'For the Lord's love , said Mr. Peggotty , falling back , and putting out his hand , as if to keep off what he dreaded . 
'Bear a hand with this ! I'm struck of a heap , and can't do it , he said , impatiently . 
'Bear a hand and help me . 
Well ! when somebody had done so . 
'Now give me that theer hat ! Ham asked him whither he was going . 
'I'm a going to seek my niece . 
I'm a going to seek my Em'ly . 
'Where ? cried Ham , interposing himself before the door . 
'Anywhere ! I'm a going to seek my niece through the wureld . 
I'm a going to find my poor niece in her shame , and bring her back . 
No one stop me ! I tell you I'm a going to seek my niece ! 'No , no ! cried Mrs. Gummidge , coming between them , in a fit of crying . 
'No , no , Dan'l , not as you are now . 
Seek her in a little while , my lone lorn Dan'l , and that'll be but right ! but not as you are now . 
That thought I never had . 
I felt , as he had felt , that all was at an end between us . 
Many were hard upon her , some few were hard upon him , but towards her second father and her lover there was but one sentiment . 
Among all kinds of people a respect for them in their distress prevailed , which was full of gentleness and delicacy . 
The seafaring men kept apart , when those two were seen early , walking with slow steps on the beach and stood in knots , talking compassionately among themselves . 
It was on the beach , close down by the sea , that I found them . 
They looked worn and I thought Mr. Peggotty's head was bowed in one night more than in all the years I had known him . 
But we see our course now . 
'My dooty here , sir , said Mr. Peggotty , 'is done . 
I'm a going to seek my he stopped , and went on in a firmer voice 'I'm a going to seek her . 
'I'll go along with you , sir , he rejoined , 'if you're agreeable , tomorrow . 
We walked again , for a while , in silence . 
'Ham , 'he presently resumed , 'he'll hold to his present work , and go and live along with my sister . 
The old boat yonder 'Will you desert the old boat , Mr. Peggotty ? I gently interposed . 
But no , sir , no I doen't mean as it should be deserted . 
I could not speak to him in reply , though I tried . 
, arter dark , at your aunt's door , doen't you go nigh it . 
Let it be her not you that sees my fallen child ! He walked a little in front of us , and kept before us for some minutes . 
During this interval , I glanced at Ham again , and observing the same expression on his face , and his eyes still directed to the distant light , I touched his arm . 
Twice I called him by his name , in the tone in which I might have tried to rouse a sleeper , before he heeded me . 
When I at last inquired on what his thoughts were so bent , he replied 'On what's afore me , Mas'r Davy and over yon . 
'On the life before you , do you mean ? He had pointed confusedly out to sea . 
'What end ? I asked , possessed by my former fear . 
'I doen't know , 'he said , thoughtfully 'I was calling to mind that the beginning of it all did take place here and then the end come . 
Mr. Peggotty stopping for us to join him we did so , and said no more . 
The remembrance of this , in connexion with my former thought , however , haunted me at intervals , even until the inexorable end came at its appointed time . 
We insensibly approached the old boat , and entered . 
Mrs. Gummidge , no longer moping in her especial corner , was busy preparing breakfast . 
She took Mr. Peggotty's hat , and placed his seat for him , and spoke so comfortably and softly , that I hardly knew her . 
'Dan'l , my good man , said she , 'you must eat and drink , and keep up your strength , for without it you'll do nowt . 
Try , that's a dear soul ! An if I disturb you with my clicketten , she meant her chattering , 'tell me so , Dan'l , and I won't . 
I'm a poor scholar , but I shall write to you , odd times , when you're away , and send my letters to Mas'r Davy . 
Maybe you'll write to me too , Dan'l , odd times , and tell me how you fare to feel upon your lone lorn journies . 
'You'll be a solitary woman heer , I'm afeerd ! said Mr. Peggotty . 
'No , no , Dan'l , she returned , 'I shan't be that . 
, 'again you come back to keep a Beein here for any that may hap to come back , Dan'l . 
In the fine time , I shall set outside the door as I used to do . 
If any should come nigh , they shall see the old widder woman true to 'em , a long way off . 
What a change in Mrs. Gummidge in a little time ! She was another woman . 
As to deploring her misfortunes , she appeared to have entirely lost the recollection of ever having had any . 
She preserved an equable cheerfulness in the midst of her sympathy , which was not the least astonishing part of the change that had come over her . 
Querulousness was out of the question . 
It was between nine and ten o'clock when , strolling in a melancholy manner through the town , I stopped at Mr. Omer's door . 
'A deceitful , bad hearted girl , said Mrs. Joram . 
'There was no good in her , ever ! 'Don't say so , I returned . 
'Yes , I do ! cried Mrs. Joram , angrily . 
'No , no , said I. Mrs. Joram tossed her head , endeavouring to be very stern and cross but she could not command her softer self , and began to cry . 
'What will she ever do ! sobbed Minnie . 
'My little Minnie , said Mrs. Joram , 'has only just now been got to sleep . 
Even in her sleep she is sobbing for Em'ly . 
It ought not to be , perhaps , but what can I do ? Em'ly is very bad , but they were fond of one another . 
And the child knows nothing ! Mrs. Joram was so unhappy that her husband came out to take care of her . 
Leaving them together , I went home to Peggotty's more melancholy myself , if possible , than I had been yet . 
That good creature I mean Peggotty all untired by her late anxieties and sleepless nights , was at her brother's , where she meant to stay till morning . 
There was a knocker upon the door , but it was not that which made the sound . 
The tap was from a hand , and low down upon the door , as if it were given by a child . 
It made me start as much as if it had been the knock of a footman to a person of distinction . 
I opened the door and at first looked down , to my amazement , on nothing but a great umbrella that appeared to be walking about of itself . 
But presently I discovered underneath it , Miss Mowcher . 
, she wrung her little hands in such an afflicted manner that I rather inclined towards her . 
'I am ill here , I am very ill . 
went backwards and forwards , in her swaying of her little body to and fro while a most gigantic bonnet rocked , in unison with it , upon the wall . 
'I am surprised , I began , 'to see you so distressed and serious' when she interrupted me . 
'Yes , it's always so ! she said . 
The old way ! 'It may be , with others , I returned , 'but I do assure you it is not with me . 
Perhaps I ought not to be at all surprised to see you as you are now I know so little of you . 
I said , without consideration , what I thought . 
'What can I do ? returned the little woman , standing up , and holding out her arms to show herself . 
'See ! What I am , my father was and my sister is and my brother is . 
I have worked for sister and brother these many years hard , Mr. Copperfield all day . 
No. She might whistle for her bread and butter till she died of Air . 
Miss Mowcher sat down on the fender again , and took out her handkerchief , and wiped her eyes . 
If I don't brood over all I want , it is the better for me , and not the worse for anyone . 
If I am a plaything for you giants , be gentle with me . 
Miss Mowcher replaced her handkerchief in her pocket , looking at me with very intent expression all the while , and pursued 'I saw you in the street just now . 
I have been here before , today , but the good woman wasn't at home . 
'Do you know her ? I demanded . 
'I know of her , and about her , she replied , 'from Omer and Joram . 
I was there at seven o'clock this morning . 
I remembered very well what she referred to , having had it in my thoughts many times that day . 
'He was crossing you and wheedling you , I saw and you were soft wax in his hands , I saw . 
You owned to an old admiration of her . 
You were hot and cold , and red and white , all at once when I spoke to you of her . 
'My country rounds , she added at length , 'brought me to Norwich , Mr. Copperfield , the night before last . 
What I happened to find there , about their secret way of coming and going , without you which was strange led to my suspecting something wrong . 
I got into the coach from London last night , as it came through Norwich , and was here this morning . 
I sat in a chair on the other side of the hearth , lost in unhappy reflections , and looking at the fire too , and sometimes at her . 
'I must go , she said at last , rising as she spoke . 
You don't mistrust me ? Meeting her sharp glance , which was as sharp as ever when she asked me , I could not on that short challenge answer no , quite frankly . 
'You are a young man , she said , nodding . 
'Take a word of advice , even from three foot nothing . 
Try not to associate bodily defects with mental , my good friend , except for a solid reason . 
She had got over the fender now , and I had got over my suspicion . 
I told her that I believed she had given me a faithful account of herself , and that we had both been hapless instruments in designing hands . 
She thanked me , and said I was a good fellow . 
'Now , mind ! she exclaimed , turning back on her way to the door , and looking shrewdly at me , with her forefinger up again . 
'I have some reason to suspect , from what I have heard my ears are always open I can't afford to spare what powers I have that they are gone abroad . 
Whatever I know , you shall know . 
'Trust me no more , but trust me no less , than you would trust a full sized woman , said the little creature , touching me appealingly on the wrist . 
'If ever you see me again , unlike what I am now , and like what I was when you first saw me , observe what company I am in . 
Call to mind that I am a very helpless and defenceless little thing . 
Think of me at home with my brother like myself and sister like myself , when my day's work is done . 
Perhaps you won't , then , be very hard upon me , or surprised if I can be distressed and serious . 
Good night ! I gave Miss Mowcher my hand , with a very different opinion of her from that which I had hitherto entertained , and opened the door to let her out . 
'Mas'r Davy , Ham whispered , drawing me aside , while Mr. Peggotty was stowing his bag among the luggage , 'his life is quite broke up . 
I am sure you'll be a friend to him , Mas'r Davy ? 'Trust me , I will indeed , said I , shaking hands with Ham earnestly . 
Thankee , very kind , sir . 
I'm in good employ , you know , Mas'r Davy , and I han't no way now of spending what I gets . 
Money's of no use to me no more , except to live . 
If you can lay it out for him , I shall do my work with a better art . 
'No , sir , he said , shaking his head , 'all that's past and over with me , sir . 
No one can never fill the place that's empty . 
We then took leave of each other . 
I cannot leave him even now , without remembering with a pang , at once his modest fortitude and his great sorrow . 
When we got to our journey's end , our first pursuit was to look about for a little lodging for Peggotty , where her brother could have a bed . 
We were so fortunate as to find one , of a very clean and cheap description , over a chandler's shop , only two streets removed from me . 
This Mrs. Crupp regarded in the light of a liberty , and a liberty , she said , was a thing she never allowed . 
Mr. Peggotty had made a communication to me on the way to London for which I was not unprepared . 
It was , that he purposed first seeing Mrs. Steerforth . 
I told her as mildly as I could what his wrong was , and what my own share in his injury . 
I mentioned two o'clock in the afternoon as the hour of our coming , and I sent the letter myself by the first coach in the morning . 
The pleasanter face which had replaced his , on the occasion of my last visit , answered to our summons , and went before us to the drawing room . 
Mrs. Steerforth was sitting there . 
Rosa Dartle glided , as we went in , from another part of the room and stood behind her chair . 
I saw , directly , in his mother's face , that she knew from himself what he had done . 
I thought her more like him than ever I had thought her and I felt , rather than saw , that the resemblance was not lost on my companion . 
She sat upright in her arm chair , with a stately , immovable , passionless air , that it seemed as if nothing could disturb . 
She looked very steadfastly at Mr. Peggotty when he stood before her and he looked quite as steadfastly at her . 
Rosa Dartle's keen glance comprehended all of us . 
For some moments not a word was spoken . 
She motioned to Mr. Peggotty to be seated . 
He said , in a low voice , 'I shouldn't feel it nat'ral , ma'am , to sit down in this house . 
And this was succeeded by another silence , which she broke thus 'I know , with deep regret , what has brought you here . 
'Please to read that , ma'am . 
Unless he brings me back a lady , said Mr. Peggotty , tracing out that part with his finger . 
'I come to know , ma'am , whether he will keep his wured ? 'No , she returned . 
'Why not ? said Mr. Peggotty . 
You cannot fail to know that she is far below him . 
'Raise her up ! said Mr. Peggotty . 
'She is uneducated and ignorant . 
'Maybe she's not maybe she is , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'I think not , ma'am but I'm no judge of them things . 
'Hark to this , ma'am , he returned , slowly and quietly . 
'You know what it is to love your child . 
So do I. If she was a hundred times my child , I couldn't love her more . 
You doen't know what it is to lose your child . 
to buy her back ! But , save her from this disgrace , and she shall never be disgraced by us . 
She still preserved her proud manner , but there was a touch of softness in her voice , as she answered 'I justify nothing . 
I make no counter accusations . 
But I am sorry to repeat , it is impossible . 
Such a marriage would irretrievably blight my son's career , and ruin his prospects . 
Nothing is more certain than that it never can take place , and never will . 
If the likeness of that face don't turn to burning fire , at the thought of offering money to me for my child's blight and ruin , it's as bad . 
I doen't know , being a lady's , but what it's worse . 
She changed now , in a moment . 
'I say , Rosa , not a word ! If he can stake his all upon the lightest object , I can stake my all upon a greater purpose . 
Let him put away his whim now , and he is welcome back . 
This is the acknowledgement I WILL HAVE . 
All that I had ever seen in him of an unyielding , wilful spirit , I saw in her . 
She rose with an air of dignity to leave the room , when Mr. Peggotty signified that it was needless . 
'Doen't fear me being any hindrance to you , I have no more to say , ma'am , he remarked , as he moved towards the door . 
'I come beer with no hope , and I take away no hope . 
I have done what I thowt should be done , but I never looked fur any good to come of my stan'ning where I do . 
This has been too evil a house fur me and mine , fur me to be in my right senses and expect it . 
With this , we departed leaving her standing by her elbow chair , a picture of a noble presence and a handsome face . 
We had , on our way out , to cross a paved hall , with glass sides and roof , over which a vine was trained . 
Its leaves and shoots were green then , and the day being sunny , a pair of glass doors leading to the garden were thrown open . 
The scar made by the hammer was , as usual in this excited state of her features , strongly marked . 
When the throbbing I had seen before , came into it as I looked at her , she absolutely lifted up her hand , and struck it . 
'Don't you know that they are both mad with their own self will and pride ? 'Is it my doing ? I returned . 
'Is it your doing ! she retorted . 
'Why do you bring this man here ? 'He is a deeply injured man , Miss Dartle , I replied . 
'You may not know it . 
But what need I know or care about this fellow , and his common niece ? 'Miss Dartle , I returned , 'you deepen the injury . 
I will only say , at parting , that you do him a great wrong . 
'I do him no wrong , she returned . 
'They are a depraved , worthless set . 
I would have her whipped ! Mr. Peggotty passed on , without a word , and went out at the door . 
'Oh , shame , Miss Dartle ! shame ! I said indignantly . 
'How can you bear to trample on his undeserved affliction ! 'I would trample on them all , she answered . 
'I would have his house pulled down . 
I would have her branded on the face , dressed in rags , and cast out in the streets to starve . 
If I had the power to sit in judgement on her , I would see it done . 
See it done ? I would do it ! I detest her . 
If I ever could reproach her with her infamous condition , I would go anywhere to do so . 
If I could hunt her to her grave , I would . 
If there was any word of comfort that would be a solace to her in her dying hour , and only I possessed it , I wouldn't part with it for Life itself . 
No description I could give of her would do justice to my recollection of her , or to her entire deliverance of herself to her anger . 
I have seen passion in many forms , but I have never seen it in such a form as that . 
When I joined Mr. Peggotty , he was walking slowly and thoughtfully down the hill . 
I asked him where he meant to go ? He only answered , 'I'm a going , sir , to seek my niece . 
We went back to the little lodging over the chandler's shop , and there I found an opportunity of repeating to Peggotty what he had said to me . 
She informed me , in return , that he had said the same to her that morning . 
She knew no more than I did , where he was going , but she thought he had some project shaped out in his mind . 
He accepted , from his sister's stock of ready money , a small sum on account of his legacy barely enough , I should have thought , to keep him for a month . 
'I'm a going to seek her , fur and wide . 
We followed to the door . 
He turned , alone , at the corner of our shady street , into a glow of light , in which we lost him . 
Her idea was my refuge in disappointment and distress , and made some amends to me , even for the loss of my friend . 
The more I pitied myself , or pitied others , the more I sought for consolation in the image of Dora . 
The greater the accumulation of deceit and trouble in the world , the brighter and the purer shone the star of Dora high above the world . 
If I may so express it , I was steeped in Dora . 
I was not merely over head and ears in love with her , but I was saturated through and through . 
I believe the theme of this incomprehensible conundrum was the moon . 
Perhaps from mice , to which she had a great objection . 
Peggotty was strongly interested , but I could not get her into my view of the case at all . 
She was audaciously prejudiced in my favour , and quite unable to understand why I should have any misgivings , or be low spirited about it . 
'The young lady might think herself well off , she observed , 'to have such a beau . 
Frozen out old gardeners in the flower beds of the heart , I took a personal offence against them all . 
The Bench was nothing to me but an insensible blunderer . 
The Bar had no more tenderness or poetry in it , than the bar of a public house . 
All these wonders afforded Peggotty as much pleasure as she was able to enjoy , under existing circumstances except , I think , St . 
, being settled , I took her down to the office one morning to pay her bill . 
In a similar feeling of delicacy , we were always blithe and light hearted with the licence clients . 
Therefore I hinted to Peggotty that she would find Mr. Spenlow much recovered from the shock of Mr. Barkis's decease and indeed he came in like a bridegroom . 
But neither Peggotty nor I had eyes for him , when we saw , in company with him , Mr. Murdstone . 
He was very little changed . 
His hair looked as thick , and was certainly as black , as ever and his glance was as little to be trusted as of old . 
'Ah , Copperfield ? said Mr. Spenlow . 
'You know this gentleman , I believe ? I made my gentleman a distant bow , and Peggotty barely recognized him . 
He was , at first , somewhat disconcerted to meet us two together but quickly decided what to do , and came up to me . 
'I hope , he said , 'that you are doing well ? 'It can hardly be interesting to you , said I. 'Yes , if you wish to know . 
We looked at each other , and he addressed himself to Peggotty . 
'And you , said he . 
'I am sorry to observe that you have lost your husband . 
'It's not the first loss I have had in my life , Mr. Murdstone , replied Peggotty , trembling from head to foot . 
'I am glad to hope that there is nobody to blame for this one , nobody to answer for it . 
'Ha ! said he 'that's a comfortable reflection . 
I do not expect that you , who always rebelled against my just authority , exerted for your benefit and reformation , should owe me any good will now . 
There is an antipathy between us 'An old one , I believe ? said I , interrupting him . 
He smiled , and shot as evil a glance at me as could come from his dark eyes . 
'It rankled in your baby breast , he said . 
'It embittered the life of your poor mother . 
I hope you may do better , yet I hope you may correct yourself . 
that we were not in a place for recrimination , and that I besought her to hold her peace . 
'Miss Trotwood , he remarked , 'is very firm , no doubt , and not likely to give way to opposition . 
I have an admiration for her character , and I may congratulate you , Copperfield , on being on the right side . 
'Rather a good marriage this , I believe ? said Mr. Spenlow . 
I explained that I knew nothing about it . 
'Speaking from the few words Mr. Murdstone dropped as a man frequently does on these occasions and from what Miss Murdstone let fall , I should say it was rather a good marriage . 
'Do you mean that there is money , sir ? I asked . 
'Yes , said Mr. Spenlow , 'I understand there's money . 
Beauty too , I am told . 
'Indeed ! Is his new wife young ? 'Just of age , said Mr. Spenlow . 
'So lately , that I should think they had been waiting for that . 
'Lord deliver her ! said Peggotty . 
So very emphatically and unexpectedly , that we were all three discomposed until Tiffey came in with the bill . 
Old Tiffey soon appeared , however , and handed it to Mr. Spenlow , to look over . 
I have a partner Mr. Jorkins . 
, of which the merits were these . 
Which the Court confirmed , to his great satisfaction . 
I must say that I had my doubts about the strict justice of this , and was not even frightened out of them by the bushel of wheat which reconciles all anomalies . 
But Mr. Spenlow argued the matter with me . 
He said , Look at the world , there was good and evil in that look at the ecclesiastical law , there was good and evil in THAT . 
It was all part of a system . 
, while the public was put to the inconvenience of which we had a specimen every afternoon when the office was busy , and which we knew to be quite monstrous . 
Paul's Churchyard , which few people knew , it must have been turned completely inside out , and upside down , long ago . 
Mr. Spenlow smiled as I became modestly warm on the subject , and then argued this question with me as he had argued the other . 
He said , what was it after all ? It was a question of feeling . 
Who was the better for it ? All the Sinecurists . 
It might not be a perfect system nothing was perfect but what he objected to , was , the insertion of the wedge . 
Under the Prerogative Office , the country had been glorious . 
Insert the wedge into the Prerogative Office , and the country would cease to be glorious . 
He considered it the principle of a gentleman to take things as he found them and he had no doubt the Prerogative Office would last our time . 
I deferred to his opinion , though I had great doubts of it myself . 
What they have done with them since whether they have lost many , or whether they sell any , now and then , to the butter shops I don't know . 
I am glad mine is not there , and I hope it may not go there , yet awhile . 
I have set all this down , in my present blissful chapter , because here it comes into its natural place . 
Mr. Spenlow and I falling into this conversation , prolonged it and our saunter to and fro , until we diverged into general topics . 
I went out of my senses immediately became a mere driveller next day , on receipt of a little lace edged sheet of note paper , 'Favoured by papa . 
To remind' and passed the intervening period in a state of dotage . 
I think I committed every possible absurdity in the way of preparation for this blessed event . 
I turn hot when I remember the cravat I bought . 
My boots might be placed in any collection of instruments of torture . 
I provided , and sent down by the Norwood coach the night before , a delicate little hamper , amounting in itself , I thought , almost to a declaration . 
There were crackers in it with the tenderest mottoes that could be got for money . 
At six in the morning , I was in Covent Garden Market , buying a bouquet for Dora . 
, with the bouquet in my hat , to keep it fresh , trotting down to Norwood . 
Her name was Miss Mills . 
and Dora called her Julia . 
She was the bosom friend of Dora . 
Happy Miss Mills ! Jip was there , and Jip WOULD bark at me again . 
When I presented my bouquet , he gnashed his teeth with jealousy . 
If he had the least idea how I adored his mistress , well he might ! 'Oh , thank you , Mr. Copperfield ! What dear flowers ! said Dora . 
that I thought them beautiful before I saw them so near HER . 
But I couldn't manage it . 
To see her lay the flowers against her little dimpled chin , was to lose all presence of mind and power of language in a feeble ecstasy . 
I wonder I didn't say , 'Kill me , if you have a heart , Miss Mills . 
Let me die here ! Then Dora held my flowers to Jip to smell . 
Then Jip growled , and wouldn't smell them . 
Then Dora laughed , and held them a little closer to Jip , to make him . 
Then Jip laid hold of a bit of geranium with his teeth , and worried imaginary cats in it . 
Then Dora beat him , and pouted , and said , 'My poor beautiful flowers ! as compassionately , I thought , as if Jip had laid hold of me . 
I wished he had ! 'You'll be so glad to hear , Mr. Copperfield , said Dora , 'that that cross Miss Murdstone is not here . 
She has gone to her brother's marriage , and will be away at least three weeks . 
Isn't that delightful ? I said I was sure it must be delightful to her , and all that was delightful to her was delightful to me . 
Miss Mills , with an air of superior wisdom and benevolence , smiled upon us . 
'She is the most disagreeable thing I ever saw , said Dora . 
'You can't believe how ill tempered and shocking she is , Julia . 
'Yes , I can , my dear ! said Julia . 
'YOU can , perhaps , love , returned Dora , with her hand on julia's . 
'Forgive my not excepting you , my dear , at first . 
I shall never have such a ride again . 
I have never had such another . 
She kept the bouquet close to her on the cushion , and wouldn't allow Jip to sit on that side of her at all , for fear he should crush it . 
She often carried it in her hand , often refreshed herself with its fragrance . 
Our eyes at those times often met and my great astonishment is that I didn't go over the head of my gallant grey into the carriage . 
There was dust , I believe . 
There was a good deal of dust , I believe . 
I have a faint impression that Mr. Spenlow remonstrated with me for riding in it but I knew of none . 
I was sensible of a mist of love and beauty about Dora , but of nothing else . 
He stood up sometimes , and asked me what I thought of the prospect . 
I said it was delightful , and I dare say it was but it was all Dora to me . 
The sun shone Dora , and the birds sang Dora . 
The south wind blew Dora , and the wild flowers in the hedges were all Doras , to a bud . 
My comfort is , Miss Mills understood me . 
Miss Mills alone could enter into my feelings thoroughly . 
I don't know how long we were going , and to this hour I know as little where we went . 
Perhaps it was near Guildford . 
Perhaps some Arabian night magician , opened up the place for the day , and shut it up for ever when we came away . 
It was a green spot , on a hill , carpeted with soft turf . 
There were shady trees , and heather , and , as far as the eye could see , a rich landscape . 
It was a trying thing to find people here , waiting for us and my jealousy , even of the ladies , knew no bounds . 
We all unpacked our baskets , and employed ourselves in getting dinner ready . 
, and obtruded himself on public notice . 
Some of the young ladies washed the lettuces for him , and sliced them under his directions . 
I felt that fate had pitted me against this man , and one of us must fall . 
and voted himself into the charge of the wine cellar , which he constructed , being an ingenious beast , in the hollow trunk of a tree . 
I was very merry , I know but it was hollow merriment . 
I attached myself to a young creature in pink , with little eyes , and flirted with her desperately . 
She received my attentions with favour but whether on my account solely , or because she had any designs on Red Whisker , I can't say . 
When I drank it , I affected to interrupt my conversation for that purpose , and to resume it immediately afterwards . 
I caught Dora's eye as I bowed to her , and I thought it looked appealing . 
But it looked at me over the head of Red Whisker , and I was adamant . 
The young creature in pink had a mother in green and I rather think the latter separated us from motives of policy . 
I was debating whether I should pretend that I was not well , and fly I don't know where upon my gallant grey , when Dora and Miss Mills met me . 
Copperfield , said Miss Mills , 'you are dull . 
'And Dora , said Miss Mills , 'YOU are dull . 
Oh dear no ! Not in the least . 
Copperfield and Dora , said Miss Mills , with an almost venerable air . 
Do not allow a trivial misunderstanding to wither the blossoms of spring , which , once put forth and blighted , cannot be renewed . 
I speak , said Miss Mills , 'from experience of the past the remote , irrevocable past . 
The gushing fountains which sparkle in the sun , must not be stopped in mere caprice the oasis in the desert of Sahara must not be plucked up idly . 
We did not come down again . 
We stayed up there all the evening . 
I was afraid it was too happy to be real , and that I should wake in Buckingham Street presently , and hear Mrs. Crupp clinking the teacups in getting breakfast ready . 
Copperfield , said Miss Mills , 'come to this side of the carriage a moment if you can spare a moment . 
I want to speak to you . 
Behold me , on my gallant grey , bending at the side of Miss Mills , with my hand upon the carriage door ! 'Dora is coming to stay with me . 
She is coming home with me the day after tomorrow . 
If you would like to call , I am sure papa would be happy to see you . 
What time Miss Mills sat looking at the moon , murmuring verses and recalling , I suppose , the ancient days when she and earth had anything in common . 
When I awoke next morning , I was resolute to declare my passion to Dora , and know my fate . 
Happiness or misery was now the question . 
There was no other question that I knew of in the world , and only Dora could give the answer to it . 
I passed three days in a luxury of wretchedness , torturing myself by putting every conceivable variety of discouraging construction on all that ever had taken place between Dora and me . 
At last , arrayed for the purpose at a vast expense , I went to Miss Mills's , fraught with a declaration . 
, begging pardon , and retreating . 
But I kept my ground . 
Mr. Mills was not at home . 
I did not expect he would be . 
Miss Mills was at home . 
I was shown into a room upstairs , where Miss Mills and Dora were . 
, and Dora was painting flowers . 
Miss Mills was very glad to see me , and very sorry her papa was not at home though I thought we all bore that with fortitude . 
Miss Mills was conversational for a few minutes , and then , laying down her pen upon 'Affection's Dirge' , got up , and left the room . 
I began to think I would put it off till tomorrow . 
'I hope your poor horse was not tired , when he got home at night , said Dora , lifting up her beautiful eyes . 
'It was a long way for him . 
I began to think I would do it today . 
'It was a long way for him , said I , 'for he had nothing to uphold him on the journey . 
'Wasn't he fed , poor thing ? asked Dora . 
I began to think I would put it off till tomorrow . 
'Ye yes , I said , 'he was well taken care of . 
I mean he had not the unutterable happiness that I had in being so near you . 
I saw now that I was in for it , and it must be done on the spot . 
'You didn't care for that happiness in the least , said Dora , slightly raising her eyebrows , and shaking her head , 'when you were sitting by Miss Kitt . 
Kitt , I should observe , was the name of the creature in pink , with the little eyes . 
'Though certainly I don't know why you should , said Dora , or why you should call it a happiness at all . 
But of course you don't mean what you say . 
And I am sure no one doubts your being at liberty to do whatever you like . 
Jip , you naughty boy , come here ! I don't know how I did it . 
I did it in a moment . 
I had Dora in my arms . 
I was full of eloquence . 
I never stopped for a word . 
I told her how I loved her . 
I told her I should die without her . 
I told her that I idolized and worshipped her . 
Jip barked madly all the time . 
When Dora hung her head and cried , and trembled , my eloquence increased so much the more . 
If she would like me to die for her , she had but to say the word , and I was ready . 
Life without Dora's love was not a thing to have on any terms . 
I couldn't bear it , and I wouldn't . 
I had loved her every minute , day and night , since I first saw her . 
I loved her at that minute to distraction . 
I should always love her , every minute , to distraction . 
Lovers had loved before , and lovers would love again but no lover had loved , might , could , would , or should ever love , as I loved Dora . 
The more I raved , the more Jip barked . 
Each of us , in his own way , got more mad every moment . 
Well , well ! Dora and I were sitting on the sofa by and by , quiet enough , and Jip was lying in her lap , winking peacefully at me . 
It was off my mind . 
I was in a state of perfect rapture . 
Dora and I were engaged . 
I suppose we had some notion that this was to end in marriage . 
We must have had some , because Dora stipulated that we were never to be married without her papa's consent . 
But , in our youthful ecstasy , I don't think that we really looked before us or behind us or had any aspiration beyond the ignorant present . 
We were to keep our secret from Mr. Spenlow but I am sure the idea never entered my head , then , that there was anything dishonourable in that . 
But she gave us her blessing , and the assurance of her lasting friendship , and spoke to us , generally , as became a Voice from the Cloister . 
CHAPTER MY AUNT ASTONISHES ME I wrote to Agnes as soon as Dora and I were engaged . 
I wrote her a long letter , in which I tried to make her comprehend how blest I was , and what a darling Dora was . 
I assured her that its profundity was quite unfathomable , and expressed my belief that nothing like it had ever been known . 
As if , in the retirement of the house made almost sacred to me by her presence , Dora and I must be happier than anywhere . 
As if , in love , joy , sorrow , hope , or disappointment in all emotions my heart turned naturally there , and found its refuge and best friend . 
Of Steerforth I said nothing . 
I knew how quick she always was to divine the truth , and that she would never be the first to breathe his name . 
To this letter , I received an answer by return of post . 
As I read it , I seemed to hear Agnes speaking to me . 
It was like her cordial voice in my ears . 
What can I say more ! While I had been away from home lately , Traddles had called twice or thrice . 
, that she was my old nurse , he had established a good humoured acquaintance with her , and had stayed to have a little chat with her about me . 
until Peggotty should cease to present herself . 
, she had ever accustomed herself to look down upon . 
, that was his own pleasure . 
He had a right to please himself so let him do . 
All that she , Mrs. Crupp , stipulated for , was , that she should not be 'brought in contract' with such persons . 
After this , Mrs. Crupp confined herself to making pitfalls on the stairs , principally with pitchers , and endeavouring to delude Peggotty into breaking her legs . 
I found it rather harassing to live in this state of siege , but was too much afraid of Mrs. Crupp to see any way out of it . 
But I have been so much engaged 'Yes , yes , I know , said Traddles , 'of course . 
Yours lives in London , I think . 
'What did you say ? 'She excuse me Miss D. , you know , said Traddles , colouring in his great delicacy , 'lives in London , I believe ? 'Oh yes . 
'Mine , perhaps you recollect , said Traddles , with a serious look , 'lives down in Devonshire one of ten . 
Consequently , I am not so much engaged as you in that sense . 
'I wonder you can bear , I returned , 'to see her so seldom . 
'Hah ! said Traddles , thoughtfully . 
'It does seem a wonder . 
I suppose it is , Copperfield , because there is no help for it ? 'I suppose so , I replied with a smile , and not without a blush . 
'And because you have so much constancy and patience , Traddles . 
'Dear me ! said Traddles , considering about it , 'do I strike you in that way , Copperfield ? Really I didn't know that I had . 
But she is such an extraordinarily dear girl herself , that it's possible she may have imparted something of those virtues to me . 
Now you mention it , Copperfield , I shouldn't wonder at all . 
I assure you she is always forgetting herself , and taking care of the other nine . 
'Is she the eldest ? I inquired . 
'Oh dear , no , said Traddles . 
'The eldest is a Beauty . 
Sophy puts her in good humour ! 'Is Sophy the youngest ? I hazarded . 
'Oh dear , no ! said Traddles , stroking his chin . 
'The two youngest are only nine and ten . 
'The second daughter , perhaps ? I hazarded . 
Sarah has something the matter with her spine , poor girl . 
The malady will wear out by and by , the doctors say , but in the meantime she has to lie down for a twelvemonth . 
'Is the mother living ? I inquired . 
'Oh yes , said Traddles , 'she is alive . 
She is a very superior woman indeed , but the damp country is not adapted to her constitution , and in fact , she has lost the use of her limbs . 
'Dear me ! said I. 'Very sad , is it not ? returned Traddles . 
'But in a merely domestic view it is not so bad as it might be , because Sophy takes her place . 
She is quite as much a mother to her mother , as she is to the other nine . 
'I am not living with him at present . 
There was an execution put into our house , for rent . 
Mrs. Micawber was in such a dreadful state that I really couldn't resist giving my name to that second bill we spoke of here . 
You may imagine how delightful it was to my feelings , Copperfield , to see the matter settled with it , and Mrs. Micawber recover her spirits . 
'Hum ! said I. 'Not that her happiness was of long duration , pursued Traddles , 'for , unfortunately , within a week another execution came in . 
It broke up the establishment . 
I have been living in a furnished apartment since then , and the Mortimers have been very private indeed . 
'It was a it was a pull , said Traddles , with his usual wince at that expression . 
'I don't mention it reproachfully , however , but with a motive . 
I told him that my old nurse would be delighted to assist him , and that we would all three take the field together , but on one condition . 
That condition was , that he should make a solemn resolution to grant no more loans of his name , or anything else , to Mr. Micawber . 
My word being passed to myself , there is no longer any apprehension but I pledge it to you , too , with the greatest readiness . 
That first unlucky obligation , I have paid . 
I have no doubt Mr. Micawber would have paid it if he could , but he could not . 
One thing I ought to mention , which I like very much in Mr. Micawber , Copperfield . 
It refers to the second obligation , which is not yet due . 
He don't tell me that it is provided for , but he says it WILL BE . 
Now , I think there is something very fair and honest about that ! I was unwilling to damp my good friend's confidence , and therefore assented . 
The end of the negotiation was , that she bought the property on tolerably easy terms , and Traddles was transported with pleasure . 
'I am very much obliged to you , indeed , said Traddles , on hearing it was to be sent to where he lived , that night . 
'If I might ask one other favour , I hope you would not think it absurd , Copperfield ? I said beforehand , certainly not . 
We then turned back towards my chambers . 
We were thus a good while in getting to the Adelphi . 
On our way upstairs , I called her attention to the sudden disappearance of Mrs. Crupp's pitfalls , and also to the prints of recent footsteps . 
and to hear voices inside . 
We looked at one another , without knowing what to make of this , and went into the sitting room . 
'Holloa ! said my aunt to Peggotty , who quailed before her awful presence . 
'Barkis , ma'am , said Peggotty , with a curtsey . 
'Well ! That's human , said my aunt . 
'It sounds less as if you wanted a missionary . 
'We are older than we were , I see , said my aunt . 
'We have only met each other once before , you know . 
A nice business we made of it then ! Trot , my dear , another cup . 
I handed it dutifully to my aunt , who was in her usual inflexible state of figure and ventured a remonstrance with her on the subject of her sitting on a box . 
Here my aunt looked hard at Mrs. Crupp , and observed , 'We needn't trouble you to wait , ma'am . 
'Shall I put a little more tea in the pot afore I go , ma'am ? said Mrs. Crupp . 
'No , I thank you , ma'am , replied my aunt . 
'Would you let me fetch another pat of butter , ma'am ? said Mrs. Crupp . 
'I shall do very well , I thank you . 
'Dick ! said my aunt . 
Crupp is one of them , said my aunt . 
I began to reflect whether I had done anything to offend her and my conscience whispered me that I had not yet told her about Dora . 
'What do you think ? inquired Miss Betsey . 
'I think so , aunt . 
'Because , said my aunt , 'it's all I have . 
Because I'm ruined , my dear ! If the house , and every one of us , had tumbled out into the river together , I could hardly have received a greater shock . 
'Dick knows it , said my aunt , laying her hand calmly on my shoulder . 
'I am ruined , my dear Trot ! All I have in the world is in this room , except the cottage and that I have left Janet to let . 
Barkis , I want to get a bed for this gentleman tonight . 
To save expense , perhaps you can make up something here for myself . 
We'll talk about this , more , tomorrow . 
In another moment she suppressed this emotion and said with an aspect more triumphant than dejected 'We must meet reverses boldly , and not suffer them to frighten us , my dear . 
We must learn to act the play out . 
, which pleased Mr. Dick mightily . 
I never do swing a cat . 
Therefore , what does that signify to ME ! I tried to ascertain whether Mr. Dick had any understanding of the causes of this sudden and great change in my aunt's affairs . 
As I might have expected , he had none at all . 
That then my aunt had said , 'Dick , I am ruined . 
That then he had said , 'Oh , indeed ! That then my aunt had praised him highly , which he was glad of . 
And that then they had come to me , and had had bottled porter and sandwiches on the road . 
that he had been so confident , merely because of his faith in the wisest and most wonderful of women , and his unbounded reliance on my intellectual resources . 
The latter , I believe , he considered a match for any kind of disaster not absolutely mortal . 
'What can we do , Trotwood ? said Mr. Dick . 
But I regret to state that the fright I had given him proved too much for his best attempts at concealment . 
All the evening his eyes wandered to my aunt's face , with an expression of the most dismal apprehension , as if he saw her growing thin on the spot . 
My aunt , on the other hand , was in a composed frame of mind , which was a lesson to all of us to me , I am sure . 
She was extremely gracious to Peggotty , except when I inadvertently called her by that name and , strange as I knew she felt in London , appeared quite at home . 
She was to have my bed , and I was to lie in the sitting room , to keep guard over her . 
She made a great point of being so near the river , in case of a conflagration and I suppose really did find some satisfaction in that circumstance . 
'Trot , my dear , said my aunt , when she saw me making preparations for compounding her usual night draught , 'No ! 'Nothing , aunt ? 'Not wine , my dear . 
'But there is wine here , aunt . 
And you always have it made of wine . 
'Keep that , in case of sickness , said my aunt . 
'We mustn't use it carelessly , Trot . 
I thought Mr. Dick would have fallen , insensible . 
My aunt being resolute , I went out and got the ale myself . 
As it was growing late , Peggotty and Mr. Dick took that opportunity of repairing to the chandler's shop together . 
I parted from him , poor fellow , at the corner of the street , with his great kite at his back , a very monument of human misery . 
My aunt was walking up and down the room when I returned , crimping the borders of her nightcap with her fingers . 
I warmed the ale and made the toast on the usual infallible principles . 
When it was ready for her , she was ready for it , with her nightcap on , and the skirt of her gown turned back on her knees . 
'My dear , said my aunt , after taking a spoonful of it 'it's a great deal better than wine . 
I suppose I looked doubtful , for she added 'Tut , tut , child . 
If nothing worse than Ale happens to us , we are well off . 
'I should think so myself , aunt , I am sure , said I. 'Well , then , why DON'T you think so ? said my aunt . 
'Because you and I are very different people , I returned . 
'Stuff and nonsense , Trot ! replied my aunt . 
It would be much more easy to be born a Jackson , or something of that sort , one would think . 
'Perhaps she thinks so , too it's not her fault , said I. 'I suppose not , returned my aunt , rather grudging the admission 'but it's very aggravating . 
However , she's Barkis now . 
Barkis is uncommonly fond of you , Trot . 
'There is nothing she would leave undone to prove it , said I. 'Nothing , I believe , returned my aunt . 
'Here , the poor fool has been begging and praying about handing over some of her money because she has got too much of it . 
A simpleton ! My aunt's tears of pleasure were positively trickling down into the warm ale . 
'She's the most ridiculous creature that ever was born , said my aunt . 
'I knew , from the first moment when I saw her with that poor dear blessed baby of a mother of yours , that she was the most ridiculous of mortals . 
But there are good points in Barkis ! Affecting to laugh , she got an opportunity of putting her hand to her eyes . 
Having availed herself of it , she resumed her toast and her discourse together . 
'Ah ! Mercy upon us ! sighed my aunt . 
'I know all about it , Trot ! Barkis and myself had quite a gossip while you were out with Dick . 
I know all about it . 
I don't know where these wretched girls expect to go to , for my part . 
I wonder they don't knock out their brains against against mantelpieces , said my aunt an idea which was probably suggested to her by her contemplation of mine . 
'Poor Emily ! said I. 'Oh , don't talk to me about poor , returned my aunt . 
'She should have thought of that , before she caused so much misery ! Give me a kiss , Trot . 
I am sorry for your early experience . 
'I adore her with my whole soul ! 'Dora , indeed ! returned my aunt . 
'Silly , aunt ! I seriously believe it had never once entered my head for a single moment , to consider whether she was or not . 
I resented the idea , of course but I was in a manner struck by it , as a new one altogether . 
'Not light headed ? said my aunt . 
'Light headed , aunt ! I could only repeat this daring speculation with the same kind of feeling with which I had repeated the preceding question . 
'Well , well ! said my aunt . 
'We are young and inexperienced , aunt , I know , I replied 'and I dare say we say and think a good deal that is rather foolish . 
But we love one another truly , I am sure . 
Earnestness is what that Somebody must look for , to sustain him and improve him , Trot . 
Deep , downright , faithful earnestness . 
'If you only knew the earnestness of Dora , aunt ! I cried . 
'Oh , Trot ! she said again 'blind , blind ! and without knowing why , I felt a vague unhappy loss or want of something overshadow me like a cloud . 
My aunt was restless , too , for I frequently heard her walking to and fro . 
It was difficult to believe that a night so long to me , could be short to anybody else . 
Dressing myself as quietly as I could , and leaving Peggotty to look after my aunt , I tumbled head foremost into it , and then went for a walk to Hampstead . 
Then I sat down in my shady corner , looking up at the sunlight on the opposite chimney pots , and thinking about Dora until Mr. Spenlow came in , crisp and curly . 
'How are you , Copperfield ? said he . 
'Fine morning ! 'Beautiful morning , sir , said I. 'Could I say a word to you before you go into Court ? 'By all means , said he . 
I followed him into his room , and he began putting on his gown , and touching himself up before a little glass he had , hanging inside a closet door . 
'I am sorry to say , said I , 'that I have some rather disheartening intelligence from my aunt . 
'Dear me ! Not paralysis , I hope ? 'It has no reference to her health , sir , I replied . 
'She has met with some large losses . 
In fact , she has very little left , indeed . 
'You as tound me , Copperfield ! cried Mr. Spenlow . 
It was like asking , as a favour , to be sentenced to transportation from Dora . 
'I am extremely sorry to hear this , Copperfield , said Mr. Spenlow . 
It is not usual to cancel articles for any such reason . 
It is not a professional course of proceeding . 
It is not a convenient precedent at all . 
At the same time 'You are very good , sir , I murmured , anticipating a concession . 
Don't mention it , said Mr. Spenlow . 
'Do you think , sir , said I , 'if I were to mention it to Mr. Jorkins Mr. Spenlow shook his head discouragingly . 
'Heaven forbid , Copperfield , he replied , 'that I should do any man an injustice still less , Mr. jorkins . 
But I know my partner , Copperfield . 
Mr. jorkins is not a man to respond to a proposition of this peculiar nature . 
Mr. jorkins is very difficult to move from the beaten track . 
'Would you object to my mentioning it to him , sir ? I asked . 
'By no means , said Mr. Spenlow . 
'But I have some experience of Mr. jorkins , Copperfield . 
I wish it were otherwise , for I should be happy to meet your views in any respect . 
I cannot have the objection to your mentioning it to Mr. jorkins , Copperfield , if you think it worth while . 
I then went up to Mr. jorkins's room , and evidently astonished Mr. jorkins very much by making my appearance there . 
'Come in , Mr. Copperfield , said Mr. jorkins . 
'Come in ! I went in , and sat down and stated my case to Mr. jorkins pretty much as I had stated it to Mr. Spenlow . 
'You have mentioned this to Mr. Spenlow , I suppose ? said Mr. jorkins when he had heard me , very restlessly , to an end . 
I answered Yes , and told him that Mr. Spenlow had introduced his name . 
'He said I should object ? asked Mr. jorkins . 
I was obliged to admit that Mr. Spenlow had considered it probable . 
'I am sorry to say , Mr. Copperfield , I can't advance your object , said Mr. jorkins , nervously . 
'The fact is but I have an appointment at the Bank , if you'll have the goodness to excuse me . 
'Oh , no ! I object , you know , which he said very rapidly , and went out . 
'I assure you there's an objection , Mr. Copperfield . 
Hopeless ! What you wish to be done , can't be done . 
I I really have got an appointment at the Bank . 
With that he fairly ran away and to the best of my knowledge , it was three days before he showed himself in the Commons again . 
'Copperfield , returned Mr. Spenlow , with a gracious smile , 'you have not known my partner , Mr. jorkins , as long as I have . 
Nothing is farther from my thoughts than to attribute any degree of artifice to Mr. jorkins . 
But Mr. jorkins has a way of stating his objections which often deceives people . 
No , Copperfield ! shaking his head . 
, I left the office , and went homeward . 
'Agnes ! I joyfully exclaimed . 
'Oh , my dear Agnes , of all people in the world , what a pleasure to see you ! 'Is it , indeed ? she said , in her cordial voice . 
'Well ! perhaps Dora first , I admitted , with a blush . 
'Certainly , Dora first , I hope , said Agnes , laughing . 
'But you next ! said I. 'Where are you going ? She was going to my rooms to see my aunt . 
like a stable put under a cucumber frame . 
I dismissed the coachman , and she took my arm , and we walked on together . 
She was like Hope embodied , to me . 
She was not alone , she said . 
Her papa was with her and Uriah Heep . 
'And now they are partners , said I. 'Confound him ! 'Yes , said Agnes . 
'They have some business here and I took advantage of their coming , to come too . 
'Does he exercise the same influence over Mr. Wickfield still , Agnes ? Agnes shook her head . 
'There is such a change at home , said she , 'that you would scarcely know the dear old house . 
They live with us now . 
'They ? said I. 'Mr . 
He sleeps in your old room , said Agnes , looking up into my face . 
'I wish I had the ordering of his dreams , said I. 'He wouldn't sleep there long . 
'I keep my own little room , said Agnes , 'where I used to learn my lessons . 
'I am glad you think of it so pleasantly . 
'We were , indeed , said I. 'I keep that room to myself still but I cannot always desert Mrs. Heep , you know . 
And so , said Agnes , quietly , 'I feel obliged to bear her company , when I might prefer to be alone . 
But I have no other reason to complain of her . 
If she tires me , sometimes , by her praises of her son , it is only natural in a mother . 
He is a very good son to her . 
I looked at Agnes when she said these words , without detecting in her any consciousness of Uriah's design . 
Her mild but earnest eyes met mine with their own beautiful frankness , and there was no change in her gentle face . 
But if any fraud or treachery is practising against him , I hope that simple love and truth will be strong in the end . 
I hope that real love and truth are stronger in the end than any evil or misfortune in the world . 
, if I knew how the reverse in my aunt's circumstances had been brought about . 
On my replying no , she had not told me yet , Agnes became thoughtful , and I fancied I felt her arm tremble in mine . 
We found my aunt alone , in a state of some excitement . 
Both of these expressions Mrs. Crupp considered actionable , and had expressed her intention of bringing before a 'British Judy' meaning , it was supposed , the bulwark of our national liberties . 
We began to talk about my aunt's losses , and I told them what I had tried to do that morning . 
'Which was injudicious , Trot , said my aunt , 'but well meant . 
You are a generous boy I suppose I must say , young man , now and I am proud of you , my dear . 
So far , so good . 
Now , Trot and Agnes , let us look the case of Betsey Trotwood in the face , and see how it stands . 
I observed Agnes turn pale , as she looked very attentively at my aunt . 
My aunt , patting her cat , looked very attentively at Agnes . 
'Betsey Trotwood , said my aunt , who had always kept her money matters to herself . 
I don't mean your sister , Trot , my dear , but myself had a certain property . 
It don't matter how much enough to live on . 
More for she had saved a little , and added to it . 
Betsey funded her property for some time , and then , by the advice of her man of business , laid it out on landed security . 
That did very well , and returned very good interest , till Betsey was paid off . 
I am talking of Betsey as if she was a man of war . 
Well ! Then , Betsey had to look about her , for a new investment . 
So she took her pigs , said my aunt , 'to a foreign market and a very bad market it turned out to be . 
Least said , soonest mended ! My aunt concluded this philosophical summary , by fixing her eyes with a kind of triumph on Agnes , whose colour was gradually returning . 
'Dear Miss Trotwood , is that all the history ? said Agnes . 
'I hope it's enough , child , said my aunt . 
'If there had been more money to lose , it wouldn't have been all , I dare say . 
Betsey would have contrived to throw that after the rest , and make another chapter , I have little doubt . 
But there was no more money , and there's no more story . 
Agnes had listened at first with suspended breath . 
Her colour still came and went , but she breathed more freely . 
I thought I knew why . 
I thought she had had some fear that her unhappy father might be in some way to blame for what had happened . 
My aunt took her hand in hers , and laughed . 
'Is that all ? repeated my aunt . 
'Why , yes , that's all , except , And she lived happy ever afterwards . 
Perhaps I may add that of Betsey yet , one of these days . 
Now , Agnes , you have a wise head . 
So have you , Trot , in some things , though I can't compliment you always' and here my aunt shook her own at me , with an energy peculiar to herself . 
'What's to be done ? Here's the cottage , taking one time with another , will produce say seventy pounds a year . 
I think we may safely put it down at that . 
'Then , said my aunt , after a rest , 'there's Dick . 
He's good for a hundred a year , but of course that must be expended on himself . 
I would sooner send him away , though I know I am the only person who appreciates him , than have him , and not spend his money on himself . 
You are to be a proctor . 
We're not going to have any knockings on the head in THIS family , if you please , sir . 
'They are not to be got rid of , for six months at least , unless they could be underlet , and that I don't believe . 
The last man died here . 
Five people out of six would die of course of that woman in nankeen with the flannel petticoat . 
'I have been thinking , Trotwood , said Agnes , diffidently , 'that if you had time 'I have a good deal of time , Agnes . 
I am always disengaged after four or five o'clock , and I have time early in the morning . 
I never think of you in any other light . 
This I addressed to Highgate for in that place , so memorable to me , he lived and went and posted , myself , without losing a minute . 
Wherever Agnes was , some agreeable token of her noiseless presence seemed inseparable from the place . 
, but she could not relent towards the London smoke , which , she said , 'peppered everything' . 
'I think , said Agnes , turning pale , 'it's papa . 
He promised me that he would come . 
I opened the door , and admitted , not only Mr. Wickfield , but Uriah Heep . 
I had not seen Mr. Wickfield for some time . 
I was prepared for a great change in him , after what I had heard from Agnes , but his appearance shocked me . 
The reversal of the two natures , in their relative positions , Uriah's of power and Mr. Wickfield's of dependence , was a sight more painful to me than I can express . 
If I had seen an Ape taking command of a Man , I should hardly have thought it a more degrading spectacle . 
He appeared to be only too conscious of it himself . 
When he came in , he stood still and with his head bowed , as if he felt it . 
In the moment's pause I speak of , I saw Uriah's countenance form itself into a most ill favoured smile . 
Agnes saw it too , I think , for she shrank from him . 
What my aunt saw , or did not see , I defy the science of physiognomy to have made out , without her own consent . 
I believe there never was anybody with such an imperturbable countenance when she chose . 
Her face might have been a dead wall on the occasion in question , for any light it threw upon her thoughts until she broke silence with her usual abruptness . 
'Well , Wickfield ! said my aunt and he looked up at her for the first time . 
We have been taking counsel together , and getting on very well , all things considered . 
Agnes is worth the whole firm , in my opinion . 
'You're a partner yourself , you know , returned my aunt , 'and that's about enough for you , I expect . 
'And you , Master I should say , Mister Copperfield , pursued Uriah . 
'I hope I see you well ! I am rejoiced to see you , Mister Copperfield , even under present circumstances . 
I believed that for he seemed to relish them very much . 
'And how do you think we are looking , Master Copperfield , I should say , Mister ? fawned Uriah . 
He jerked himself about , after this compliment , in such an intolerable manner , that my aunt , who had sat looking straight at him , lost all patience . 
'Go along with you , sir ! said my aunt , anything but appeased . 
'Don't presume to say so ! I am nothing of the sort . 
If you're an eel , sir , conduct yourself like one . 
, and it's only natural , I am sure , that it should be made quicker by present circumstances . 
I may go so far ? said Uriah , with a sickly smile at his partner . 
'Uriah Heep , said Mr. Wickfield , in a monotonous forced way , 'is active in the business , Trotwood . 
What he says , I quite concur in . 
You know I had an old interest in you . 
'It's a load off my mind , Trotwood , to have such a partner . 
The red fox made him say all this , I knew , to exhibit him to me in the light he had indicated on the night when he poisoned my rest . 
I saw the same ill favoured smile upon his face again , and saw how he watched me . 
'You are not going , papa ? said Agnes , anxiously . 
'Will you not walk back with Trotwood and me ? He would have looked to Uriah , I believe , before replying , if that worthy had not anticipated him . 
'I am bespoke myself , said Uriah , 'on business otherwise I should have been appy to have kept with my friends . 
But I leave my partner to represent the firm . 
Miss Agnes , ever yours ! I wish you good day , Master Copperfield , and leave my umble respects for Miss Betsey Trotwood . 
With those words , he retired , kissing his great hand , and leering at us like a mask . 
We sat there , talking about our pleasant old Canterbury days , an hour or two . 
Mr. Wickfield , left to Agnes , soon became more like his former self though there was a settled depression upon him , which he never shook off . 
For all that , he brightened and had an evident pleasure in hearing us recall the little incidents of our old life , many of which he remembered very well . 
He said it was like those times , to be alone with Agnes and me again and he wished to Heaven they had never changed . 
I am sure there was an influence in the placid face of Agnes , and in the very touch of her hand upon his arm , that did wonders for him . 
would not accompany us to the place where they were staying , but insisted on my going and I went . 
After dinner , Agnes sat beside him , as of old , and poured out his wine . 
He took what she gave him , and no more like a child and we all three sat together at a window as the evening gathered in . 
I was not dispirited now . 
I was not afraid of the shabby coat , and had no yearnings after gallant greys . 
My whole manner of thinking of our late misfortune was changed . 
What I had to do , was , to show my aunt that her past goodness to me had not been thrown away on an insensible , ungrateful object . 
What I had to do , was , to turn the painful discipline of my younger days to account , by going to work with a resolute and steady heart . 
And I went on at a mighty rate , as if it could be done by walking . 
But that did not discourage me . 
With the new life , came new purpose , new intention . 
Great was the labour priceless the reward . 
Dora was the reward , and Dora must be won . 
I got into such a transport , that I felt quite sorry my coat was not a little shabby already . 
I wanted to be cutting at those trees in the forest of difficulty , under circumstances that should prove my strength . 
I stimulated myself into such a heat , and got so out of breath , that I felt as if I had been earning I don't know how much . 
In this state , I went into a cottage that I saw was to let , and examined it narrowly , for I felt it necessary to be practical . 
My first care , after putting myself under this necessary course of preparation , was to find the Doctor's house . 
It was not in that part of Highgate where Mrs. Steerforth lived , but quite on the opposite side of the little town . 
His room was shut up close . 
She gave me the idea of some fierce thing , that was dragging the length of its chain to and fro upon a beaten track , and wearing its heart out . 
The church with the slender spire , that stands on the top of the hill now , was not there then to tell me the time . 
'Why , my dear Copperfield , said the Doctor , 'you are a man ! How do you do ? I am delighted to see you . 
My dear Copperfield , how very much you have improved ! You are quite yes dear me ! I hoped he was well , and Mrs. Strong too . 
'Oh dear , yes ! said the Doctor 'Annie's quite well , and she'll be delighted to see you . 
You were always her favourite . 
She said so , last night , when I showed her your letter . 
And yes , to be sure you recollect Mr. Jack Maldon , Copperfield ? 'Perfectly , sir . 
'Of course , said the Doctor . 
He's pretty well , too . 
'Has he come home , sir ? I inquired . 
'From India ? said the Doctor . 
Mr. Jack Maldon couldn't bear the climate , my dear . 
Mrs. Markleham you have not forgotten Mrs. Markleham ? Forgotten the Old Soldier ! And in that short time ! 'Mrs . 
I knew enough of Mr. Jack Maldon to suspect from this account that it was a place where there was not much to do , and which was pretty well paid . 
It's very gratifying and agreeable to me , I am sure but don't you think you could do better ? You achieved distinction , you know , when you were with us . 
You are qualified for many good things . 
'Well , well , said the Doctor , 'that's true . 
Certainly , your having a profession , and being actually engaged in studying it , makes a difference . 
But , my good young friend , what's seventy pounds a year ? 'It doubles our income , Doctor Strong , said I. 'Dear me ! replied the Doctor . 
Undoubtedly , said the Doctor , still walking me up and down with his hand on my shoulder . 
'I have always taken an annual present into account . 
, 'to whom I owe more obligations already than I ever can acknowledge 'No , no , interposed the Doctor . 
'Dear me ! said the Doctor , innocently . 
'On my word , sir ! I returned , answering in our old school manner . 
'Then be it so , said the Doctor , clapping me on the shoulder , and still keeping his hand there , as we still walked up and down . 
'And I shall be twenty times happier , sir , said I , with a little I hope innocent flattery , 'if my employment is to be on the Dictionary . 
It IS the Dictionary ! How could it be anything else ! His pockets were as full of it as his head . 
It was sticking out of him in all directions . 
The Doctor was quite happy in the prospect of our going to work together on that wonderful performance , and we settled to begin next morning at seven o'clock . 
We were to work two hours every morning , and two or three hours every night , except on Saturdays , when I was to rest . 
On Sundays , of course , I was to rest also , and I considered these very easy terms . 
They had postponed their breakfast on my account , and we sat down to table together . 
We had not been seated long , when I saw an approaching arrival in Mrs. Strong's face , before I heard any sound of it . 
It was Mr. Jack Maldon and Mr. Jack Maldon was not at all improved by India , I thought . 
Jack ! said the Doctor . 
'Copperfield ! Mr. Jack Maldon shook hands with me but not very warmly , I believed and with an air of languid patronage , at which I secretly took great umbrage . 
But his languor altogether was quite a wonderful sight except when he addressed himself to his cousin Annie . 
'Have you breakfasted this morning , Mr. Jack ? said the Doctor . 
'I hardly ever take breakfast , sir , he replied , with his head thrown back in an easy chair . 
'I find it bores me . 
'Is there any news today ? inquired the Doctor . 
'Nothing at all , sir , replied Mr. Maldon . 
'There's an account about the people being hungry and discontented down in the North , but they are always being hungry and discontented somewhere . 
The Doctor looked grave , and said , as though he wished to change the subject , 'Then there's no news at all and no news , they say , is good news . 
'There's a long statement in the papers , sir , about a murder , observed Mr. Maldon . 
'But somebody is always being murdered , and I didn't read it . 
I have known it very fashionable indeed . 
I have seen it displayed with such success , that I have encountered some fine ladies and gentlemen who might as well have been born caterpillars . 
'I came out to inquire whether Annie would like to go to the opera tonight , said Mr. Maldon , turning to her . 
'It's the last good night there will be , this season and there's a singer there , whom she really ought to hear . 
Besides which , she is so charmingly ugly , relapsing into languor . 
The Doctor , ever pleased with what was likely to please his young wife , turned to her and said 'You must go , Annie . 
'I would rather not , she said to the Doctor . 
'I prefer to remain at home . 
I would much rather remain at home . 
He told her , good naturedly , that she was young and ought to be amused and entertained , and must not allow herself to be made dull by a dull old fellow . 
This concluded , he went to his Patent place , I suppose but at all events went away on his horse , looking very idle . 
I was curious to find out next morning , whether she had been . 
I often glanced at it , for she sat in the window all the time we were at work and made our breakfast , which we took by snatches as we were employed . 
When I left , at nine o'clock , she was kneeling on the ground at the Doctor's feet , putting on his shoes and gaiters for him . 
I was pretty busy now up at five in the morning , and home at nine or ten at night . 
, that I had much to tell her . 
Mr. Dick , who had been with me to Highgate twice already , and had resumed his companionship with the Doctor , I took with me . 
, I made up my mind to try if Traddles could help us . 
Before we went , I wrote Traddles a full statement of all that had happened , and Traddles wrote me back a capital answer , expressive of his sympathy and friendship . 
We found him hard at work with his inkstand and papers , refreshed by the sight of the flower pot stand and the little round table in a corner of the small apartment . 
He received us cordially , and made friends with Mr. Dick in a moment . 
Mr. Dick professed an absolute certainty of having seen him before , and we both said , 'Very likely . 
The first subject on which I had to consult Traddles was this , I had heard that many men distinguished in various pursuits had begun life by reporting the debates in Parliament . 
'I am very much obliged to you , my dear Traddles ! said I. 'I'll begin tomorrow . 
Traddles looked astonished , as he well might but he had no notion as yet of my rapturous condition . 
I passed that off , and brought Mr. Dick on the carpet . 
Traddles , who would not have smiled for the world , replied composedly 'But you are a very good penman , sir . 
You told me so , Copperfield ? 'Excellent ! said I. And indeed he was . 
He wrote with extraordinary neatness . 
'Don't you think , said Traddles , 'you could copy writings , sir , if I got them for you ? Mr. Dick looked doubtfully at me . 
'Eh , Trotwood ? I shook my head . 
Mr. Dick shook his , and sighed . 
'Tell him about the Memorial , said Mr. Dick . 
'But these writings , you know , that I speak of , are already drawn up and finished , said Traddles after a little consideration . 
Dick has nothing to do with them . 
Wouldn't that make a difference , Copperfield ? At all events , wouldn't it be well to try ? This gave us new hope . 
We exhorted him to be resolute in this , and left my aunt to observe him . 
'No starving now , Trotwood , said Mr. Dick , shaking hands with me in a corner . 
'I'll provide for her , Sir ! and he flourished his ten fingers in the air , as if they were ten banks . 
was addressed to me , 'By the kindness of T. Traddles , Esquire , of the Inner Temple . 
It ran thus 'MY DEAR COPPERFIELD , 'You may possibly not be unprepared to receive the intimation that something has turned up . 
I may have mentioned to you on a former occasion that I was in expectation of such an event . 
, in immediate connexion with one of the learned professions . 
Mrs. Micawber and our offspring will accompany me . 
I was glad to find that Mr. Micawber had got rid of his dust and ashes , and that something really had turned up at last . 
I also became once more known to his sister , Miss Micawber , in whom , as Mr. Micawber told us , 'her mother renewed her youth , like the Phoenix' . 
'My dear Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , 'yourself and Mr. Traddles find us on the brink of migration , and will excuse any little discomforts incidental to that position . 
Glancing round as I made a suitable reply , I observed that the family effects were already packed , and that the amount of luggage was by no means overwhelming . 
I congratulated Mrs. Micawber on the approaching change . 
'My dear Mr. Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , 'of your friendly interest in all our affairs , I am well assured . 
My family may consider it banishment , if they please but I am a wife and mother , and I never will desert Mr. Micawber . 
Traddles , appealed to by Mrs. Micawber's eye , feelingly acquiesced . 
I read the service over with a flat candle on the previous night , and the conclusion I derived from it was , that I never could desert Mr. Micawber . 
I expressed my opinion that this was going in the right direction . 
'Oh ! You are going to a Cathedral town ? said I. Mr. Micawber , who had been helping us all , out of the wash hand stand jug , replied 'To Canterbury . 
I stared at Mr. Micawber , who greatly enjoyed my surprise . 
Of my friend Heep , said Mr. Micawber , 'who is a man of remarkable shrewdness , I desire to speak with all possible respect . 
Such address and intelligence as I chance to possess , said Mr. Micawber , boastfully disparaging himself , with the old genteel air , 'will be devoted to my friend Heep's service . 
I believe it is unnecessary to add that I allude to Mr. justice Blackstone . 
I sat all the while , amazed by Mr. Micawber's disclosure , and wondering what it meant until Mrs. Micawber resumed the thread of the discourse , and claimed my attention . 
I am convinced that Mr. Micawber , giving his mind to a profession so adapted to his fertile resources , and his flow of language , must distinguish himself . 
Now , for example , Mr. Traddles , said Mrs. Micawber , assuming a profound air , 'a judge , or even say a Chancellor . 
'Micawber , she returned , 'no ! Your mistake in life is , that you do not look forward far enough . 
Mr. Micawber coughed , and drank his punch with an air of exceeding satisfaction still glancing at Traddles , as if he desired to have his opinion . 
'Why , the plain state of the case , Mrs. Micawber , said Traddles , mildly breaking the truth to her . 
Is , said Traddles , 'that this branch of the law , even if Mr. Micawber were a regular solicitor 'Exactly so , returned Mrs. Micawber . 
Has nothing , pursued Traddles , 'to do with that . 
Only a barrister is eligible for such preferments and Mr. Micawber could not be a barrister , without being entered at an inn of court as a student , for five years . 
'Do I follow you ? said Mrs. Micawber , with her most affable air of business . 
'Thank you , said Mrs. Micawber . 
If such is the case , and Mr. Micawber forfeits no privilege by entering on these duties , my anxiety is set at rest . 
I quite believe that Mr. Micawber saw himself , in his judicial mind's eye , on the woolsack . 
He passed his hand complacently over his bald head , and said with ostentatious resignation 'My dear , we will not anticipate the decrees of fortune . 
If I am reserved to wear a wig , I am at least prepared , externally , in allusion to his baldness , 'for that distinction . 
I do not , said Mr. Micawber , 'regret my hair , and I may have been deprived of it for a specific purpose . 
'For the Church ? said I , still pondering , between whiles , on Uriah Heep . 
'Yes , said Mr. Micawber . 
'He has a remarkable head voice , and will commence as a chorister . 
Our residence at Canterbury , and our local connexion , will , no doubt , enable him to take advantage of any vacancy that may arise in the Cathedral corps . 
I cannot express how extremely delighted they both were , by the idea of my aunt's being in difficulties and how comfortable and friendly it made them . 
Traddles imitated me in the first particular , but did not consider himself a sufficiently old friend to venture on the second . 
But all that I have to say in this way , I have said . 
All I have to say on that score is , that the cloud has passed from the dreary scene , and the God of Day is once more high upon the mountain tops . 
He then said with much solemnity 'One thing more I have to do , before this separation is complete , and that is to perform an act of justice . 
My friend Mr. Thomas Traddles has , on two several occasions , put his name , if I may use a common expression , to bills of exchange for my accommodation . 
On the first occasion Mr. Thomas Traddles was left let me say , in short , in the lurch . 
The fulfilment of the second has not yet arrived . 
These sums , united , make a total , if my calculation is correct , amounting to forty one , ten , eleven and a half . 
My friend Copperfield will perhaps do me the favour to check that total ? I did so and found it correct . 
I have , therefore , prepared for my friend Mr. Thomas Traddles , and I now hold in my hand , a document , which accomplishes the desired object . 
, Mr. Micawber placed his I. O. U. in the hands of Traddles , and said he wished him well in every relation of life . 
Mr. Micawber walked so erect before his fellow man , on the strength of this virtuous action , that his chest looked half as broad again when he lighted us downstairs . 
, quite as well as I did . 
CHAPTER A LITTLE COLD WATER My new life had lasted for more than a week , and I was stronger than ever in those tremendous practical resolutions that I felt the crisis required . 
I continued to walk extremely fast , and to have a general idea that I was getting on . 
I made it a rule to take as much out of myself as I possibly could , in my way of doing everything to which I applied my energies . 
I made a perfect victim of myself . 
I even entertained some idea of putting myself on a vegetable diet , vaguely conceiving that , in becoming a graminivorous animal , I should sacrifice to Dora . 
As yet , little Dora was quite unconscious of my desperate firmness , otherwise than as my letters darkly shadowed it forth . 
, I was to go there to tea . 
By this time , we were quite settled down in Buckingham Street , where Mr. Dick continued his copying in a state of absolute felicity . 
These vigorous measures struck such terror to the breast of Mrs. Crupp , that she subsided into her own kitchen , under the impression that my aunt was mad . 
My aunt , being uncommonly neat and ingenious , made so many little improvements in our domestic arrangements , that I seemed to be richer instead of poorer . 
I was the object of her constant solicitude and my poor mother herself could not have loved me better , or studied more how to make me happy . 
when it was necessary for her to return home , and enter on the discharge of the duties she had undertaken in behalf of Ham . 
She cried at parting , and confided her brother to my friendship as Ham had done . 
We had heard nothing of him since he went away , that sunny afternoon . 
Next to accepting a large sum on the spot , I believe this gave Peggotty more comfort than anything I could have done . 
Mr. Mills , who was a terrible fellow to fall asleep after dinner , had not yet gone out , and there was no bird cage in the middle window . 
He kept me waiting so long , that I fervently hoped the Club would fine him for being late . 
'How can you ask me anything so foolish ? pouted Dora . 
'Is your heart mine still , dear Dora ? said I , rapturously , for I knew by her clinging to me that it was . 
'Oh , yes ! cried Dora . 
'Oh , yes , it's all yours . 
Oh , don't be dreadful ! I dreadful ! To Dora ! 'Don't talk about being poor , and working hard ! said Dora , nestling closer to me . 
'Oh , don't , don't ! 'My dearest love , said I , 'the crust well earned 'Oh , yes but I don't want to hear any more about crusts ! said Dora . 
'And Jip must have a mutton chop every day at twelve , or he'll die . 
I was charmed with her childish , winning way . 
I fondly explained to Dora that Jip should have his mutton chop with his accustomed regularity . 
I drew a picture of our frugal home , made independent by my labour sketching in the little house I had seen at Highgate , and my aunt in her room upstairs . 
'I am not dreadful now , Dora ? said I , tenderly . 
'Oh , no , no ! cried Dora . 
'But I hope your aunt will keep in her own room a good deal . 
And I hope she's not a scolding old thing ! If it were possible for me to love Dora more than ever , I am sure I did . 
But I felt she was a little impracticable . 
It damped my new born ardour , to find that ardour so difficult of communication to her . 
'Because it frightens me so ! 'Sweetheart ! I returned 'there is nothing to alarm you in all this . 
I want you to think of it quite differently . 
I want to make it nerve you , and inspire you , Dora ! 'Oh , but that's so shocking ! cried Dora . 
Perseverance and strength of character will enable us to bear much worse things . 
'But I haven't got any strength at all , said Dora , shaking her curls . 
I did as she bade me rewarding myself afterwards for my obedience and she charmed me out of my graver character for I don't know how long . 
'But , Dora , my beloved ! said I , at last resuming it 'I was going to mention something . 
'Indeed I am not going to be , my darling ! I assured her . 
'It's so very dreadful ! 'My soul , not at all ! said I , cheerfully . 
It would be so useful to us afterwards , I went on . 
'And if you would promise me to read a little a little Cookery Book that I would send you , it would be so excellent for both of us . 
For our path in life , my Dora , said I , warming with the subject , 'is stony and rugged now , and it rests with us to smooth it . 
We must fight our way onward . 
I had done it again . 
I thought I had killed her , this time . 
I sprinkled water on her face . 
I went down on my knees . 
I plucked at my hair . 
I denounced myself as a remorseless brute and a ruthless beast . 
I besought her to look up . 
I ravaged Miss Mills's work box for a smelling bottle , and in my agony of mind applied an ivory needle case instead , and dropped all the needles over Dora . 
I shook my fists at Jip , who was as frantic as myself . 
I did every wild extravagance that could be done , and was a long way beyond the end of my wits when Miss Mills came into the room . 
'Who has done this ? exclaimed Miss Mills , succouring her friend . 
Miss Mills must have been born to be a blessing to us . 
When we were quite composed , and Dora had gone up stairs to put some rose water to her eyes , Miss Mills rang for tea . 
In the ensuing interval , I told Miss Mills that she was evermore my friend , and that my heart must cease to vibrate ere I could forget her sympathy . 
I then expounded to Miss Mills what I had endeavoured , so very unsuccessfully , to expound to Dora . 
Miss Mills replied , on general principles , that the Cottage of content was better than the Palace of cold splendour , and that where love was , all was . 
Copperfield , I will be plain with you . 
Mental suffering and trial supply , in some natures , the place of years , and I will be as plain with you as if I were a Lady Abbess . 
No. The suggestion is not appropriate to our Dora . 
Our dearest Dora is a favourite child of nature . 
She is a thing of light , and airiness , and joy . 
I am free to confess that if it could be done , it might be well , but And Miss Mills shook her head . 
Miss Mills accepted this trust , too but was not sanguine . 
And Dora returned , looking such a lovely little creature , that I really doubted whether she ought to be troubled with anything so ordinary . 
, that I felt like a sort of Monster who had got into a Fairy's bower , when I thought of having frightened her , and made her cry . 
It's so nonsensical ! 'My love , said I , 'I have work to do . 
'But don't do it ! returned Dora . 
'Why should you ? It was impossible to say to that sweet little surprised face , otherwise than lightly and playfully , that we must work to live . 
'Oh ! How ridiculous ! cried Dora . 
'How shall we live without , Dora ? said I. 'How ? Any how ! said Dora . 
Well ! I loved her , and I went on loving her , most absorbingly , entirely , and completely . 
CHAPTER A DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP I did not allow my resolution , with respect to the Parliamentary Debates , to cool . 
It was one of the irons I began to heat immediately , and one of the irons I kept hot , and hammered at , with a perseverance I may honestly admire . 
and plunged into a sea of perplexity that brought me , in a few weeks , to the confines of distraction . 
It might have been quite heart breaking , but for Dora , who was the stay and anchor of my tempest driven bark . 
I was flying too high , and should never get on , so . 
I resorted to Traddles for advice who suggested that he should dictate speeches to me , at a pace , and with occasional stoppages , adapted to my weakness . 
, and Traddles , with the assistance of Enfield's Speakers , or a volume of parliamentary orations , thundered astonishing invectives against them . 
The inconsistency and recklessness of Traddles were not to be exceeded by any real politician . 
He was for any description of policy , in the compass of a week and nailed all sorts of colours to every denomination of mast . 
to follow lustily with the same cry . 
But Mr. Dick got taxed with such things in the course of his Parliamentary career , and was made responsible for such awful consequences , that he became uncomfortable in his mind sometimes . 
I believe he actually began to be afraid he really had been doing something , tending to the annihilation of the British constitution , and the ruin of the country . 
Often and often we pursued these debates until the clock pointed to midnight , and the candles were burning down . 
I was always punctual at the office at the Doctor's too and I really did work , as the common expression is , like a cart horse . 
One day , when I went to the Commons as usual , I found Mr. Spenlow in the doorway looking extremely grave , and talking to himself . 
I complied , in a very uncomfortable state , and with a warm shooting all over me , as if my apprehensions were breaking out into buds . 
Miss Murdstone gave me her chilly finger nails , and sat severely rigid . 
Mr. Spenlow shut the door , motioned me to a chair , and stood on the hearth rug in front of the fireplace . 
'Have the goodness to show Mr. Copperfield , said Mr. Spenlow , what you have in your reticule , Miss Murdstone . 
I believe it was the old identical steel clasped reticule of my childhood , that shut up like a bite . 
'I believe that is your writing , Mr. Copperfield ? said Mr. Spenlow . 
'No , thank you ! said Mr. Spenlow , coldly , as I mechanically offered them back to him . 
'I will not deprive you of them . 
Miss Murdstone , be so good as to proceed ! That gentle creature , after a moment's thoughtful survey of the carpet , delivered herself with much dry unction as follows . 
'I must confess to having entertained my suspicions of Miss Spenlow , in reference to David Copperfield , for some time . 
I observed Miss Spenlow and David Copperfield , when they first met and the impression made upon me then was not agreeable . 
The depravity of the human heart is such 'You will oblige me , ma'am , interrupted Mr. Spenlow , 'by confining yourself to facts . 
Perhaps that will be considered an acceptable course of proceeding . 
I have already said , sir , that I have had my suspicions of Miss Spenlow , in reference to David Copperfield , for some time . 
I have frequently endeavoured to find decisive corroboration of those suspicions , but without effect . 
I have therefore forborne to mention them to Miss Spenlow's father' looking severely at him 'knowing how little disposition there usually is in such cases , to acknowledge the conscientious discharge of duty . 
Mr. Spenlow seemed quite cowed by the gentlemanly sternness of Miss Murdstone's manner , and deprecated her severity with a conciliatory little wave of his hand . 
Therefore I watched Miss Spenlow closely . 
Dear , tender little Dora , so unconscious of this Dragon's eye ! 'Still , resumed Miss Murdstone , 'I found no proof until last night . 
If I may not be permitted to allude to the natural depravity of the human heart , at least I may I must be permitted , so far to refer to misplaced confidence . 
Mr. Spenlow apologetically murmured his assent . 
'Last evening after tea , pursued Miss Murdstone , 'I observed the little dog starting , rolling , and growling about the drawing room , worrying something . 
I said to Miss Spenlow , Dora , what is that the dog has in his mouth ? It's paper . 
Miss Spenlow immediately put her hand to her frock , gave a sudden cry , and ran to the dog . 
I interposed , and said , Dora , my love , you must permit me . 
The little dog retreated under the sofa on my approaching him , and was with great difficulty dislodged by the fire irons . 
At length I obtained possession of it . 
After perusing it , I taxed Miss Spenlow with having many such letters in her possession and ultimately obtained from her the packet which is now in David Copperfield's hand . 
Here she ceased and snapping her reticule again , and shutting her mouth , looked as if she might be broken , but could never be bent . 
'You have heard Miss Murdstone , said Mr. Spenlow , turning to me . 
I am afraid I was in a tremulous state for a minute or so , though I did my best to disguise it . 
'There is nothing I can say , sir , I returned , 'except that all the blame is mine . 
Dora 'Miss Spenlow , if you please , said her father , majestically . 
was induced and persuaded by me , I went on , swallowing that colder designation , 'to consent to this concealment , and I bitterly regret it . 
'You have done a stealthy and unbecoming action , Mr. Copperfield . 
When I take a gentleman to my house , no matter whether he is nineteen , twenty nine , or ninety , I take him there in a spirit of confidence . 
If he abuses my confidence , he commits a dishonourable action , Mr. Copperfield . 
'I feel it , sir , I assure you , I returned . 
'But I never thought so , before . 
Sincerely , honestly , indeed , Mr. Spenlow , I never thought so , before . 
I love Miss Spenlow to that extent 'Pooh ! nonsense ! said Mr. Spenlow , reddening . 
'Can you defend your conduct if you do , sir ? said Mr. Spenlow , stopping short upon the hearth rug . 
Since I have been in that altered position , I have strained every nerve , I have exerted every energy , to improve it . 
I am sure I shall improve it in time . 
Let there be an end of the nonsense . 
Take away those letters , and throw them in the fire . 
Come , Mr. Copperfield , you don't want sense and this is the sensible course . 
No. I couldn't think of agreeing to it . 
I was very sorry , but there was a higher consideration than sense . 
Love was above all earthly considerations , and I loved Dora to idolatry , and Dora loved me . 
I didn't exactly say so I softened it down as much as I could but I implied it , and I was resolute upon it . 
I don't think I made myself very ridiculous , but I know I was resolute . 
'Very well , Mr. Copperfield , said Mr. Spenlow , 'I must try my influence with my daughter . 
'I must try , said Mr. Spenlow , confirmed by this support , 'my influence with my daughter . 
Do you decline to take those letters , Mr. Copperfield ? For I had laid them on the table . 
I told him I hoped he would not think it wrong , but I couldn't possibly take them from Miss Murdstone . 
'Nor from me ? said Mr. Spenlow . 
No , I replied with the profoundest respect nor from him . 
'Very well ! said Mr. Spenlow . 
A silence succeeding , I was undecided whether to go or stay . 
No. I merely say , with quite another view , you are probably aware I have some property to bequeath to my child ? I certainly supposed so . 
In a little while , it will weigh lighter than any feather . 
There was a serenity , a tranquillity , a calm sunset air about him , which quite affected me . 
He was so peaceful and resigned clearly had his affairs in such perfect train , and so systematically wound up that he was a man to feel touched in the contemplation of . 
I really think I saw tears rise to his eyes , from the depth of his own feeling of all this . 
But what could I do ? I could not deny Dora and my own heart . 
'Take a week , Mr. Copperfield . 
I submitted and , with a countenance as expressive as I was able to make it of dejected and despairing constancy , came out of the room . 
He had assured her , he said , that it was all nonsense and he had nothing more to say to her . 
, and I might spare myself any solicitude on her account . 
I hope you will be wiser than that , in a few days . 
All I desire , Mr. Copperfield , is , that it should be forgotten . 
All you have got to do , Mr. Copperfield , is to forget it . 
All ! In the note I wrote to Miss Mills , I bitterly quoted this sentiment . 
All I had to do , I said , with gloomy sarcasm , was to forget Dora . 
That was all , and what was that ! I entreated Miss Mills to see me , that evening . 
If it could not be done with Mr. Mills's sanction and concurrence , I besought a clandestine interview in the back kitchen where the Mangle was . 
I informed her that my reason was tottering on its throne , and only she , Miss Mills , could prevent its being deposed . 
However , I sent it . 
In the back kitchen , I raved as became me . 
I went there , I suppose , to make a fool of myself , and I am quite sure I did it . 
Miss Mills had received a hasty note from Dora , telling her that all was discovered , and saying . 
Miss Mills had a wonderful flow of words , and liked to pour them out . 
I could not help feeling , though she mingled her tears with mine , that she had a dreadful luxury in our afflictions . 
She petted them , as I may say , and made the most of them . 
A deep gulf , she observed , had opened between Dora and me , and Love could only span it with its rainbow . 
Love must suffer in this stern world it ever had been so , it ever would be so . 
No matter , Miss Mills remarked . 
Hearts confined by cobwebs would burst at last , and then Love was avenged . 
This was small consolation , but Miss Mills wouldn't encourage fallacious hopes . 
that she was indeed a friend . 
We parted , overwhelmed with grief and I think Miss Mills enjoyed herself completely . 
I confided all to my aunt when I got home and in spite of all she could say to me , went to bed despairing . 
I got up despairing , and went out despairing . 
It was Saturday morning , and I went straight to the Commons . 
I quickened my pace , and , passing among them , wondering at their looks , went hurriedly in . 
The clerks were there , but nobody was doing anything . 
Old Tiffey , for the first time in his life I should think , was sitting on somebody else's stool , and had not hung up his hat . 
'This is a dreadful calamity , Mr. Copperfield , said he , as I entered . 
'What is ? I exclaimed . 
'What's the matter ? 'Don't you know ? cried Tiffey , and all the rest of them , coming round me . 
'No ! said I , looking from face to face . 
'What about him ! 'Dead ! I thought it was the office reeling , and not I , as one of the clerks caught hold of me . 
They sat me down in a chair , untied my neck cloth , and brought me some water . 
I have no idea whether this took any time . 
The horses stopped at the stable gate . 
The man went out with a lantern . 
The reins were broken , but they had been dragging on the ground . 
The house was roused up directly , and three of them went out along the road . 
They found him a mile off . 
'More than a mile off , Mr. Tiffey , interposed a junior . 
If he breathed , certainly he never spoke . 
Medical assistance was got as soon as possible , but it was quite useless . 
I cannot describe the state of mind into which I was thrown by this intelligence . 
What I cannot describe is , how , in the innermost recesses of my own heart , I had a lurking jealousy even of Death . 
How I felt as if its might would push me from my ground in Dora's thoughts . 
How I was , in a grudging way I have no words for , envious of her grief . 
How it made me restless to think of her weeping to others , or being consoled by others . 
How I had a grasping , avaricious wish to shut out everybody from her but myself , and to be all in all to her , at that unseasonable time of all times . 
I deplored the untimely death of Mr. Spenlow , most sincerely , and shed tears in doing so . 
I know I did this selfishly , to have my name brought before her but I tried to believe it was an act of justice to his memory . 
Perhaps I did believe it . 
My aunt received a few lines next day in reply addressed , outside , to her within , to me . 
Mr. jorkins , who had been at Norwood since the occurrence , came to the office a few days afterwards . 
He and Tiffey were closeted together for some few moments , and then Tiffey looked out at the door and beckoned me in . 
'Oh ! said Mr. jorkins . 
There is no trace of any , elsewhere . 
It may be as well for you to assist us , if you please . 
We began the search at once Mr. jorkins unlocking the drawers and desks , and we all taking out the papers . 
The office papers we placed on one side , and the private papers on the other . 
Spenlow was very difficult to move from the beaten track . 
You know what he was ! I am disposed to think he had made no will . 
'Oh , I know he had ! said I. They both stopped and looked at me . 
'On the very day when I last saw him , said I , 'he told me that he had , and that his affairs were long since settled . 
Mr. jorkins and old Tiffey shook their heads with one accord . 
'That looks unpromising , said Tiffey . 
'Very unpromising , said Mr. jorkins . 
'Surely you don't doubt I began . 
'Why , bless my soul , he made that very remark ! I replied persistently . 
'I should call that almost final , observed Tiffey . 
'My opinion is no will . 
It appeared a wonderful thing to me , but it turned out that there was no will . 
What was scarcely less astonishing to me , was , that his affairs were in a most disordered state . 
It was extremely difficult , I heard , to make out what he owed , or what he had paid , or of what he died possessed . 
It was considered likely that for years he could have had no clear opinion on these subjects himself . 
This was at the expiration of about six weeks . 
Since which they had gone their road , and their brother had gone his . 
These two ladies now emerged from their retirement , and proposed to take Dora to live at Putney . 
How I found time to haunt Putney , I am sure I don't know but I contrived , by some means or other , to prowl about the neighbourhood pretty often . 
How I treasured up the entries , of which I subjoin a sample ! 'Monday . 
My sweet D. still much depressed . 
Called attention to J. as being beautifully sleek . 
D. fondled J. Associations thus awakened , opened floodgates of sorrow . 
D. , J. M. and J. took airing in carriage . 
Sang to her , as congenial melody , Evening Bells . 
Effect not soothing , but reverse . 
Found sobbing afterwards , in own room . 
Quoted verses respecting self and young Gazelle . 
Also referred to Patience on Monument . 
Slight tinge of damask revisiting cheek . 
Resolved to mention name of D. C. Introduced same , cautiously , in course of airing . 
Oh , dear , dear Julia ! Oh , I have been a naughty and undutiful child ! Soothed and caressed . 
Drew ideal picture of D. C. on verge of tomb . 
Oh , what shall I do , what shall I do ? Oh , take me somewhere ! Much alarmed . 
Fainting of D. and glass of water from public house . 
Man appears in kitchen , with blue bag , for lady's boots left out to heel . 
Cook replies , No such orders . 
Cook withdraws to inquire , leaving man alone with J. On Cook's return , man still argues point , but ultimately goes . 
Man to be identified by broad nose , and legs like balustrades of bridge . 
Search made in every direction . 
No J. D. weeping bitterly , and inconsolable . 
Renewed reference to young Gazelle . 
Towards evening , strange boy calls . 
Broad nose , but no balustrades . 
Says he wants a pound , and knows a dog . 
Declines to explain further , though much pressed . 
Pound being produced by D. takes Cook to little house , where J. alone tied up to leg of table . 
joy of D. who dances round J. while he eats his supper . 
Emboldened by this happy change , mention D. C. upstairs . 
Miss Mills and her journal were my sole consolation at this period . 
Janet was drafted into the service of Mrs. Strong , where I saw her every day . 
Not so much for the sake of principle , I believe , as because she happened not to like him . 
Although it required an effort to leave Miss Mills , I fell rather willingly into my aunt's pretence , as a means of enabling me to pass a few tranquil hours with Agnes . 
As to the Commons , I had no great occasion to be particular about my duties in that quarter . 
To say the truth , we were getting in no very good odour among the tip top proctors , and were rapidly sliding down to but a doubtful position . 
It fell off very much . 
Mr. jorkins , notwithstanding his reputation in the firm , was an easy going , incapable sort of man , whose reputation out of doors was not calculated to back it up . 
I was turned over to him now , and when I saw him take his snuff and let the business go , I regretted my aunt's thousand pounds more than ever . 
But this was not the worst of it . 
As our house now wanted business on any terms , we joined this noble band and threw out lures to the hangers on and outsiders , to bring their business to us . 
Marriage licences and small probates were what we all looked for , and what paid us best and the competition for these ran very high indeed . 
walking about for some days with a black eye . 
Many captives were brought to me in this way . 
The system of inveigling continues , I believe , to this day . 
From this digression , let me proceed to Dover . 
I found everything in a satisfactory state at the cottage and was enabled to gratify my aunt exceedingly by reporting that the tenant inherited her feud , and waged incessant war against donkeys . 
Having settled the little business I had to transact there , and slept there one night , I walked on to Canterbury early in the morning . 
It was now winter again and the fresh , cold windy day , and the sweeping downland , brightened up my hopes a little . 
Coming into Canterbury , I loitered through the old streets with a sober pleasure that calmed my spirits , and eased my heart . 
There were the old signs , the old names over the shops , the old people serving in them . 
It appeared so long , since I had been a schoolboy there , that I wondered the place was so little changed , until I reflected how little I was changed myself . 
Strange to say , that quiet influence which was inseparable in my mind from Agnes , seemed to pervade even the city where she dwelt . 
He was dressed in a legal looking suit of black , and loomed , burly and large , in that small office . 
Mr. Micawber was extremely glad to see me , but a little confused too . 
He would have conducted me immediately into the presence of Uriah , but I declined . 
'I know the house of old , you recollect , said I , 'and will find my way upstairs . 
How do you like the law , Mr. Micawber ? 'My dear Copperfield , he replied . 
'To a man possessed of the higher imaginative powers , the objection to legal studies is the amount of detail which they involve . 
Even in our professional correspondence , said Mr. Micawber , glancing at some letters he was writing , 'the mind is not at liberty to soar to any exalted form of expression . 
Still , it is a great pursuit . 
'It is humble , said Mr. Micawber , to quote a favourite expression of my friend Heep but it may prove the stepping stone to more ambitious domiciliary accommodation . 
That disadvantage is not diminished , when that pressure necessitates the drawing of stipendiary emoluments , before those emoluments are strictly due and payable . 
'I should not have supposed him to be very free with his money either , I observed . 
'Pardon me ! said Mr. Micawber , with an air of constraint , 'I speak of my friend Heep as I have experience . 
'I am glad your experience is so favourable , I returned . 
'You are very obliging , my dear Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber and hummed a tune . 
'Do you see much of Mr. Wickfield ? I asked , to change the subject . 
'Not much , said Mr. Micawber , slightingly . 
Wickfield is , I dare say , a man of very excellent intentions but he is in short , he is obsolete . 
I am here , in a position of trust . 
, is , I am led to consider , incompatible with the functions now devolving on me . 
I would therefore take the liberty of suggesting that in our friendly intercourse which I trust will never be disturbed ! we draw a line . 
My telling him so , appeared to relieve him and he shook hands with me . 
'I am charmed , Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , 'let me assure you , with Miss Wickfield . 
She is a very superior young lady , of very remarkable attractions , graces , and virtues . 
I took my leave of Mr. Micawber , for the time , charging him with my best remembrances to all at home . 
There was no one in the quaint old drawing room , though it presented tokens of Mrs. Heep's whereabouts . 
I looked into the room still belonging to Agnes , and saw her sitting by the fire , at a pretty old fashioned desk she had , writing . 
My darkening the light made her look up . 
'Again ! And so soon ? I shook my head . 
'I don't know how it is , Agnes I seem to want some faculty of mind that I ought to have . 
'And what is it ? said Agnes , cheerfully . 
'I don't know what to call it , I replied . 
'I think I am earnest and persevering ? 'I am sure of it , said Agnes . 
'And patient , Agnes ? I inquired , with a little hesitation . 
'Yes , returned Agnes , laughing . 
'See here ! You come to London , I rely on you , and I have an object and a course at once . 
I am driven out of it , I come here , and in a moment I feel an altered person . 
'It's the old story , said I. 'Don't laugh , when I say it was always the same in little things as it is in greater ones . 
'Whenever I have not had you , Agnes , to advise and approve in the beginning , I have seemed to go wild , and to get into all sorts of difficulty . 
, I have come to peace and happiness . 
I only knew that I was fervently in earnest , when I felt the rest and peace of having Agnes near me . 
'And there is not another word to tell , Agnes , said I , when I had made an end of my confidence . 
'Now , my reliance is on you . 
'But it must not be on me , Trotwood , returned Agnes , with a pleasant smile . 
'It must be on someone else . 
'On Dora ? said I. 'Assuredly . 
She is a timid little thing , and easily disturbed and frightened . 
Some time ago , before her father's death , when I thought it right to mention to her but I'll tell you , if you will bear with me , how it was . 
Accordingly , I told Agnes about my declaration of poverty , about the cookery book , the housekeeping accounts , and all the rest of it . 
'Oh , Trotwood ! she remonstrated , with a smile . 
Poor Dora ! I never heard such sweet forbearing kindness expressed in a voice , as she expressed in making this reply . 
It was as if I had seen her admiringly and tenderly embracing Dora , and tacitly reproving me , by her considerate protection , for my hot haste in fluttering that little heart . 
'What would it be right to do ? 'I think , said Agnes , 'that the honourable course to take , would be to write to those two ladies . 
Don't you think that any secret course is an unworthy one ? 'Yes . 
I would relate , as plainly and as openly as possible , all that has taken place and I would ask their permission to visit sometimes , at their house . 
I would entreat them not to dismiss your request , without a reference to Dora and to discuss it with her when they should think the time suitable . 
I would not be too vehement , said Agnes , gently , 'or propose too much . 
I would trust to my fidelity and perseverance and to Dora . 
should not be likely persons to address in that way ! 'I don't think , Trotwood , returned Agnes , raising her soft eyes to mine , 'I would consider that . 
Perhaps it would be better only to consider whether it is right to do this and , if it is , to do it . 
I had no longer any doubt on the subject . 
But first I went downstairs to see Mr. Wickfield and Uriah Heep . 
I found Uriah in possession of a new , plaster smelling office , built out in the garden looking extraordinarily mean , in the midst of a quantity of books and papers . 
He received me in his usual fawning way , and pretended not to have heard of my arrival from Mr. Micawber a pretence I took the liberty of disbelieving . 
'You stay with us , Trotwood , while you remain in Canterbury ? said Mr. Wickfield , not without a glance at Uriah for his approval . 
'No , no , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'Why should you be inconvenienced ? There's another room . 
I had hoped to have no other companion than Agnes . 
'I'm umbly thankful to you , sir , said Mrs. Heep , in acknowledgement of my inquiries concerning her health , 'but I'm only pretty well . 
I haven't much to boast of . 
If I could see my Uriah well settled in life , I couldn't expect much more I think . 
How do you think my Ury looking , sir ? I thought him looking as villainous as ever , and I replied that I saw no change in him . 
'Oh , don't you think he's changed ? said Mrs. Heep . 
'There I must umbly beg leave to differ from you . 
Don't you see a thinness in him ? 'Not more than usual , I replied . 
'Don't you though ! said Mrs. Heep . 
It passed me , and went on to Agnes . 
'Don't YOU see a wasting and a wearing in him , Miss Wickfield ? inquired Mrs. Heep . 
'No , said Agnes , quietly pursuing the work on which she was engaged . 
'You are too solicitous about him . 
Mrs. Heep , with a prodigious sniff , resumed her knitting . 
She never left off , or left us for a moment . 
She sat on one side of the fire I sat at the desk in front of it a little beyond me , on the other side , sat Agnes . 
At dinner she maintained her watch , with the same unwinking eyes . 
In the drawing room , there was the mother knitting and watching again . 
All the time that Agnes sang and played , the mother sat at the piano . 
doted on and at intervals she looked round at him , and reported to Agnes that he was in raptures with the music . 
But she hardly ever spoke I question if she ever did without making some mention of him . 
It was evident to me that this was the duty assigned to her . 
I hardly got any sleep . 
Next day the knitting and watching began again , and lasted all day . 
I had not an opportunity of speaking to Agnes , for ten minutes . 
I could barely show her my letter . 
I proposed to her to walk out with me but Mrs. Heep repeatedly complaining that she was worse , Agnes charitably remained within , to bear her company . 
The shambling figure , and the scanty great coat , were not to be mistaken . 
I stopped , and Uriah Heep came up . 
'Well ? said I. 'How fast you walk ! said he . 
'My legs are pretty long , but you've given 'em quite a job . 
'Where are you going ? said I. 'I am going with you , Master Copperfield , if you'll allow me the pleasure of a walk with an old acquaintance . 
Saying this , with a jerk of his body , which might have been either propitiatory or derisive , he fell into step beside me . 
'Uriah ! said I , as civilly as I could , after a silence . 
'Master Copperfield ! said Uriah . 
, I came Out to walk alone , because I have had so much company . 
He looked at me sideways , and said with his hardest grin , 'You mean mother . 
'Why yes , I do , said I. 'Ah ! But you know we're so very umble , he returned . 
'And having such a knowledge of our own umbleness , we must really take care that we're not pushed to the wall by them as isn't umble . 
All stratagems are fair in love , sir . 
Raising his great hands until they touched his chin , he rubbed them softly , and softly chuckled looking as like a malevolent baboon , I thought , as anything human could look . 
'You see , he said , still hugging himself in that unpleasant way , and shaking his head at me , 'you're quite a dangerous rival , Master Copperfield . 
You always was , you know . 
'Put my meaning into any words you like , said I. 'You know what it is , Uriah , as well as I do . 
'Oh no ! You must put it into words , he said . 
'Oh , really ! I couldn't myself . 
You may not , you know . 
'Come then ! said I. 'For the sake of Miss Wickfield 'My Agnes ! he exclaimed , with a sickly , angular contortion of himself . 
'I will tell you what I should , under any other circumstances , as soon have thought of telling to Jack Ketch . 
'To who , sir ? said Uriah , stretching out his neck , and shading his ear with his hand . 
'To the hangman , I returned . 
'The most unlikely person I could think of , though his own face had suggested the allusion quite as a natural sequence . 
'I am engaged to another young lady . 
I hope that contents you . 
'Upon your soul ? said Uriah . 
I was about indignantly to give my assertion the confirmation he required , when he caught hold of my hand , and gave it a squeeze . 
'Oh , Master Copperfield ! he said . 
As it is , I'm sure I'll take off mother directly , and only too appy . 
But you never have condescended to me , as much as I could have wished . 
But I was quite unsuccessful . 
He drew it under the sleeve of his mulberry coloured great coat , and I walked on , almost upon compulsion , arm in arm with him . 
'Shall we turn ? said Uriah , by and by wheeling me face about towards the town , on which the early moon was now shining , silvering the distant windows . 
'Very ! Now confess , Master Copperfield , that you haven't liked me quite as I have liked you . 
All along you've thought me too umble now , I shouldn't wonder ? 'I am not fond of professions of humility , I returned , 'or professions of anything else . 
'There now ! said Uriah , looking flabby and lead coloured in the moonlight . 
They taught us all a deal of umbleness not much else that I know of , from morning to night . 
And we had such a lot of betters ! Father got the monitor medal by being umble . 
So did I. Father got made a sexton by being umble . 
He had the character , among the gentlefolks , of being such a well behaved man , that they were determined to bring him in . 
Be umble , Uriah , says father to me , and you'll get on . 
It was what was always being dinned into you and me at school it's what goes down best . 
I had seen the harvest , but had never thought of the seed . 
'When I was quite a young boy , said Uriah , 'I got to know what umbleness did , and I took to it . 
I ate umble pie with an appetite . 
I stopped at the umble point of my learning , and says I , Hold hard ! When you offered to teach me Latin , I knew better . 
People like to be above you , says father , keep yourself down . 
Once apart from him , I was determined to keep apart and we walked back , side by side , saying very little more by the way . 
Whether his spirits were elevated by the communication I had made to him , or by his having indulged in this retrospect , I don't know but they were raised by some influence . 
whether he was not growing too old for a bachelor and once looked at Agnes so , that I would have given all I had , for leave to knock him down . 
When we three males were left alone after dinner , he got into a more adventurous state . 
He had taken little or no wine and I presume it was the mere insolence of triumph that was upon him , flushed perhaps by the temptation my presence furnished to its exhibition . 
I would have done so again today but Uriah was too quick for me . 
It made me sick at heart to see , and my hand recoils from writing it . 
Her father had his empty glass in his hand . 
I saw him set it down , look at the picture she was so like , put his hand to his forehead , and shrink back in his elbow chair . 
'I'm an umble individual to give you her elth , proceeded Uriah , 'but I admire adore her . 
I conjured him , incoherently , but in the most impassioned manner , not to abandon himself to this wildness , but to hear me . 
I tried to bring her idea before him in any form I even reproached him with not having firmness to spare her the knowledge of such a scene as this . 
'Look at my torturer , he replied . 
'Before him I have step by step abandoned name and reputation , peace and quiet , house and home . 
'Don't be foolish , Mr. Wickfield . 
If I have gone a little beyond what you were prepared for , I can go back , I suppose ? There's no harm done . 
'I looked for single motives in everyone , said Mr. Wickfield , and I was satisfied I had bound him to me by motives of interest . 
'Why should I not be in all the world's power if I am in yours ? 'Mind ! I tell you ! said Uriah , continuing to warn me . 
'If you don't stop his mouth , you're not his friend ! Why shouldn't you be in all the world's power , Mr. Wickfield ? Because you have got a daughter . 
You and me know what we know , don't we ? Let sleeping dogs lie who wants to rouse 'em ? I don't . 
Can't you see I am as umble as I can be ? I tell you , if I've gone too far , I'm sorry . 
What would you have , sir ? 'Oh , Trotwood , Trotwood ! 'exclaimed Mr. Wickfield , wringing his hands . 
Indulgence in remembrance , and indulgence in forgetfulness . 
My natural grief for my child's mother turned to disease my natural love for my child turned to disease . 
I have infected everything I touched . 
Thus the lessons of my life have been perverted ! I have preyed on my own morbid coward heart , and it has preyed on me . 
The excitement into which he had been roused was leaving him . 
Uriah came out of his corner . 
'I don't know all I have done , in my fatuity , said Mr. Wickfield , putting out his hands , as if to deprecate my condemnation . 
'He knows best , meaning Uriah Heep , 'for he has always been at my elbow , whispering me . 
You see the millstone that he is about my neck . 
You find him in my house , you find him in my business . 
You heard him , but a little time ago . 
'You wouldn't have took it up so , if it hadn't been for the wine . 
You'll think better of it tomorrow , sir . 
Come with me ! He laid his head upon her shoulder , as if he were oppressed with heavy shame , and went out with her . 
Her eyes met mine for but an instant , yet I saw how much she knew of what had passed . 
'I didn't expect he'd cut up so rough , Master Copperfield , said Uriah . 
I'll be friends with him tomorrow . 
I'm umbly anxious for his good . 
I gave him no answer , and went upstairs into the quiet room where Agnes had so often sat beside me at my books . 
Nobody came near me until late at night . 
I took up a book , and tried to read . 
I heard the clocks strike twelve , and was still reading , without knowing what I read , when Agnes touched me . 
'Dearest Agnes ! I returned , 'I see you ask me not to speak of tonight but is there nothing to be done ? 'There is God to trust in ! she replied . 
'Can I do nothing I , who come to you with my poor sorrows ? 'And make mine so much lighter , she replied . 
I've been into his room already , and we've made it all smooth . 
'Oh , to be sure ! said Uriah . 
'I did that last night , said Uriah 'but it'll ripen yet ! It only wants attending to . 
I can wait ! Profuse in his farewells , he got down again as the coachman got up . 
CHAPTER THE WANDERER We had a very serious conversation in Buckingham Street that night , about the domestic occurrences I have detailed in the last chapter . 
My aunt was deeply interested in them , and walked up and down the room with her arms folded , for more than two hours afterwards . 
Whenever she was particularly discomposed , she always performed one of these pedestrian feats and the amount of her discomposure might always be estimated by the duration of her walk . 
When my aunt and I were left to ourselves by Mr. Dick's going out to bed , I sat down to write my letter to the two old ladies . 
By that time she was tired of walking , and sat by the fire with her dress tucked up as usual . 
As often as I raised my eyes from what I was about , I met hers . 
She read my letter to the two old ladies , in the morning , and approved of it . 
I posted it , and had nothing to do then , but wait , as patiently as I could , for the reply . 
I was still in this state of expectation , and had been , for nearly a week when I left the Doctor's one snowy night , to walk home . 
It had been a bitter day , and a cutting north east wind had blown for some time . 
The wind had gone down with the light , and so the snow had come on . 
It was a heavy , settled fall , I recollect , in great flakes and it lay thick . 
The noise of wheels and tread of people were as hushed , as if the streets had been strewn that depth with feathers . 
My shortest way home , and I naturally took the shortest way on such a night was through St . 
As I passed the steps of the portico , I encountered , at the corner , a woman's face . 
It looked in mine , passed across the narrow lane , and disappeared . 
I had seen it somewhere . 
But I could not remember where . 
I had some association with it , that struck upon my heart directly but I was thinking of anything else when it came upon me , and was confused . 
I don't think I had stopped in my surprise but , in any case , as I went on , he rose , turned , and came down towards me . 
I stood face to face with Mr. Peggotty ! Then I remembered the woman . 
It was Martha , to whom Emily had given the money that night in the kitchen . 
Martha Endell side by side with whom , he would not have seen his dear niece , Ham had told me , for all the treasures wrecked in the sea . 
At first , neither of us could speak a word . 
'Mas'r Davy ! he said , gripping me tight , 'it do my art good to see you , sir . 
I should have come early in the morning , sir , afore going away . 
'Again ? said I. 'Yes , sir , he replied , patiently shaking his head , 'I'm away tomorrow . 
'Where were you going now ? I asked . 
'Well ! he replied , shaking the snow out of his long hair , 'I was a going to turn in somewheers . 
I pointed out the gateway , put my arm through his , and we went across . 
When I saw him in the light , I observed , not only that his hair was long and ragged , but that his face was burnt dark by the sun . 
He shook the snow from his hat and clothes , and brushed it away from his face , while I was inwardly making these remarks . 
'I'll tell you , Mas'r Davy , he said , 'wheer all I've been , and what all we've heerd . 
I've been fur , and we've heerd little but I'll tell you ! I rang the bell for something hot to drink . 
He would have nothing stronger than ale and while it was being brought , and being warmed at the fire , he sat thinking . 
There was a fine , massive gravity in his face , I did not venture to disturb . 
I thowt , odd times , as her father being drownded made her think on it so much . 
I doen't know , you see , but maybe she believed or hoped he had drifted out to them parts , where the flowers is always a blowing , and the country bright . 
'It is likely to have been a childish fancy , I replied . 
'When she was lost , said Mr. Peggotty , 'I know'd in my mind , as he would take her to them countries . 
When we see his mother , I know'd quite well as I was right . 
I went across channel to France , and landed theer , as if I'd fell down from the sky . 
I saw the door move , and the snow drift in . 
I saw it move a little more , and a hand softly interpose to keep it open . 
'I found out an English gen'leman as was in authority , said Mr. Peggotty , 'and told him I was a going to seek my niece . 
I told him , best as I was able , what my gratitoode was , and went away through France . 
'Alone , and on foot ? said I. 'Mostly a foot , he rejoined 'sometimes in carts along with people going to market sometimes in empty coaches . 
Many mile a day a foot , and often with some poor soldier or another , travelling to see his friends . 
I couldn't talk to him , said Mr. Peggotty , 'nor he to me but we was company for one another , too , along the dusty roads . 
I should have known that by his friendly tone . 
When it warn't Em'ly , I went on agen . 
By little and little , when I come to a new village or that , among the poor people , I found they know'd about me . 
Some has had daughters as was dead . 
And God only knows how good them mothers was to me ! It was Martha at the door . 
I saw her haggard , listening face distinctly . 
My dread was lest he should turn his head , and see her too . 
Oh , my Darling ! Overpowered by sudden grief , he sobbed aloud . 
I laid my trembling hand upon the hand he put before his face . 
'Thankee , sir , he said , 'doen't take no notice . 
In a very little while he took his hand away and put it on his breast , and went on with his story . 
At last I come to the sea . 
It warn't hard , you may suppose , for a seafaring man like me to work his way over to Italy . 
When I got theer , I wandered on as I had done afore . 
One as know'd his servant see 'em there , all three , and told me how they travelled , and where they was . 
I made fur them mountains , Mas'r Davy , day and night . 
Ever so fur as I went , ever so fur the mountains seemed to shift away from me . 
But I come up with 'em , and I crossed 'em . 
'I never doubted her , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'He was nowt to me now . 
I doen't believe I should have done so much as look at him . 
But , Mas'r Davy , it warn't to be not yet ! I was too late , and they was gone . 
Wheer , I couldn't learn . 
Some said beer , some said theer . 
I travelled beer , and I travelled theer , but I found no Em'ly , and I travelled home . 
'How long ago ? I asked . 
'A matter o' fower days , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'I sighted the old boat arter dark , and the light a shining in the winder . 
When I come nigh and looked in through the glass , I see the faithful creetur Missis Gummidge sittin' by the fire , as we had fixed upon , alone . 
I called out , Doen't be afeerd ! It's Dan'l ! and I went in . 
'This fust one come , he said , selecting it from the rest , 'afore I had been gone a week . 
A fifty pound Bank note , in a sheet of paper , directed to me , and put underneath the door in the night . 
'This come to Missis Gummidge , he said , opening another , 'two or three months ago . 
'After looking at it for some moments , he gave it to me , and added in a low voice , 'Be so good as read it , sir . 
, that when I hear the wind blowing at night , I feel as if it was passing angrily from seeing him and uncle , and was going up to God against me . 
I would bless him and uncle with my last words , and pray for his happy home with my last breath ! Some money was enclosed in this letter also . 
It was untouched like the previous sum , and he refolded it in the same way . 
'What answer was sent ? I inquired of Mr. Peggotty . 
'Missis Gummidge , he returned , 'not being a good scholar , sir , Ham kindly drawed it out , and she made a copy on it . 
They told her I was gone to seek her , and what my parting words was . 
'Is that another letter in your hand ? said I. 'It's money , sir , said Mr. Peggotty , unfolding it a little way . 
'Ten pound , you see . 
And wrote inside , From a true friend , like the fust . 
But the fust was put underneath the door , and this come by the post , day afore yesterday . 
I'm a going to seek her at the post mark . 
He showed it to me . 
It was a town on the Upper Rhine . 
He had found out , at Yarmouth , some foreign dealers who knew that country , and they had drawn him a rude map on paper , which he could very well understand . 
He laid it between us on the table and , with his chin resting on one hand , tracked his course upon it with the other . 
I asked him how Ham was ? He shook his head . 
'He works , he said , 'as bold as a man can . 
His name's as good , in all that part , as any man's is , anywheres in the wureld . 
Anyone's hand is ready to help him , you understand , and his is ready to help them . 
He's never been heerd fur to complain . 
But my sister's belief is as it has cut him deep . 
'Poor fellow , I can believe it ! 'He ain't no care , Mas'r Davy , said Mr. Peggotty in a solemn whisper 'kinder no care no how for his life . 
When a man's wanted for rough sarvice in rough weather , he's theer . 
When there's hard duty to be done with danger in it , he steps for'ard afore all his mates . 
And yet he's as gentle as any child . 
There ain't a child in Yarmouth that doen't know him . 
He gathered up the letters thoughtfully , smoothing them with his hand put them into their little bundle and placed it tenderly in his breast again . 
The face was gone from the door . 
I still saw the snow drifting in but nothing else was there . 
, I shall away betimes tomorrow morning . 
'I'd go ten thousand mile , he said , 'I'd go till I dropped dead , to lay that money down afore him . 
If I do that , and find my Em'ly , I'm content . 
I turned him hastily on some pretence , and held him in conversation until it was gone . 
He spoke of a traveller's house on the Dover Road , where he knew he could find a clean , plain lodging for the night . 
I went with him over Westminster Bridge , and parted from him on the Surrey shore . 
Everything seemed , to my imagination , to be hushed in reverence for him , as he resumed his solitary journey through the snow . 
I returned to the inn yard , and , impressed by my remembrance of the face , looked awfully around for it . 
as I looked back over my shoulder . 
CHAPTER DORA'S AUNTS At last , an answer came from the two old ladies . 
observed that conventional phrases are a sort of fireworks , easily let off , and liable to take a great variety of shapes and colours not at all suggested by their original form . 
, they would be happy to hold some conversation on the subject . 
Having dispatched which missive , Mr. Copperfield fell into a condition of strong nervous agitation and so remained until the day arrived . 
It was a great augmentation of my uneasiness to be bereaved , at this eventful crisis , of the inestimable services of Miss Mills . 
having been at Calcutta in his youth and designing now to go out there again , in the capacity of resident partner . 
But this was nothing to me . 
was to be taken at a valuation . 
It gave him a surprised look not to say a hearth broomy kind of expression which , my apprehensions whispered , might be fatal to us . 
'Won't be smoothed down ? said I. 'No , said Traddles . 
If I was to carry a half hundred weight upon it , all the way to Putney , it would be up again the moment the weight was taken off . 
You have no idea what obstinate hair mine is , Copperfield . 
I am quite a fretful porcupine . 
I was a little disappointed , I must confess , but thoroughly charmed by his good nature too . 
I told him how I esteemed his good nature and said that his hair must have taken all the obstinacy out of his character , for he had none . 
'Oh ! returned Traddles , laughing . 
'I assure you , it's quite an old story , my unfortunate hair . 
My uncle's wife couldn't bear it . 
She said it exasperated her . 
It stood very much in my way , too , when I first fell in love with Sophy . 
Very much ! 'Did she object to it ? 'SHE didn't , rejoined Traddles 'but her eldest sister the one that's the Beauty quite made game of it , I understand . 
In fact , all the sisters laugh at it . 
'Agreeable ! said I. 'Yes , returned Traddles with perfect innocence , 'it's a joke for us . 
They pretend that Sophy has a lock of it in her desk , and is obliged to shut it in a clasped book , to keep it down . 
'By the by , my dear Traddles , said I , 'your experience may suggest something to me . 
'Why , replied Traddles , on whose attentive face a thoughtful shade had stolen , 'it was rather a painful transaction , Copperfield , in my case . 
You see , Sophy being of so much use in the family , none of them could endure the thought of her ever being married . 
Indeed , they had quite settled among themselves that she never was to be married , and they called her the old maid . 
I couldn't approach the subject again , for months . 
'You did at last ? said I. 'Well , the Reverend Horace did , said Traddles . 
, and to bear no uncharitable feeling towards me . 
As to myself , Copperfield , I give you my word , I felt a perfect bird of prey towards the family . 
'The sisters took your part , I hope , Traddles ? 'Why , I can't say they did , he returned . 
'When we had comparatively reconciled Mrs. Crewler to it , we had to break it to Sarah . 
'What a very unpleasant girl , Traddles ! I remarked . 
'Oh , I beg your pardon , Copperfield ! said Traddles . 
'She is a very charming girl , but she has a great deal of feeling . 
In fact , they all have . 
Sophy told me afterwards , that the self reproach she underwent while she was in attendance upon Sarah , no words could describe . 
I know it must have been severe , by my own feelings , Copperfield which were like a criminal's . 
After Sarah was restored , we still had to break it to the other eight and it produced various effects upon them of a most pathetic nature . 
The two little ones , whom Sophy educates , have only just left off de testing me . 
'The fact is , we avoid mentioning the subject and my unsettled prospects and indifferent circumstances are a great consolation to them . 
There will be a deplorable scene , whenever we are married . 
It will be much more like a funeral , than a wedding . 
This having been administered at a neighbouring public house , he conducted me , with tottering steps , to the Misses Spenlow's door . 
Also of hearing an old fashioned clock ticking away on the chimney piece , and trying to make it keep time to the jerking of my heart , which it wouldn't . 
Also of looking round the room for any sign of Dora , and seeing none . 
Also of thinking that Jip once barked in the distance , and was instantly choked by somebody . 
'Pray , said one of the two little ladies , 'be seated . 
They were both upright in their carriage , formal , precise , composed , and quiet . 
The sister who had not my letter , had her arms crossed on her breast , and resting on each other , like an Idol . 
Copperfield , I believe , said the sister who had got my letter , addressing herself to Traddles . 
This was a frightful beginning . 
To improve it , we all distinctly heard Jip give two short barks , and receive another choke . 
Copperfield ! said the sister with the letter . 
I did something bowed , I suppose and was all attention , when the other sister struck in . 
'My sister Lavinia , said she 'being conversant with matters of this nature , will state what we consider most calculated to promote the happiness of both parties . 
by over drinking his constitution , and over doing an attempt to set it right again by swilling Bath water . 
'We will not , said Miss Lavinia , 'enter on the past history of this matter . 
Our poor brother Francis's death has cancelled that . 
'We had not , said Miss Clarissa , 'been in the habit of frequent association with our brother Francis but there was no decided division or disunion between us . 
Francis took his road we took ours . 
We considered it conducive to the happiness of all parties that it should be so . 
Each of the sisters leaned a little forward to speak , shook her head after speaking , and became upright again when silent . 
Miss Clarissa never moved her arms . 
She sometimes played tunes upon them with her fingers minuets and marches I should think but never moved them . 
I replied , as I usually did whenever I had a chance , that nobody had ever loved anybody else as I loved Dora . 
Traddles came to my assistance with a confirmatory murmur . 
'Sister Clarissa , said Miss Lavinia . 
'Perhaps we needn't mind that now . 
'Sister Lavinia , said Miss Clarissa , 'it belongs to the subject . 
With your branch of the subject , on which alone you are competent to speak , I should not think of interfering . 
On this branch of the subject I have a voice and an opinion . 
It would have been better for the happiness of all parties , if Dora's mama , when she married our brother Francis , had mentioned plainly what her intentions were . 
We should then have known what we had to expect . 
We should have said Pray do not invite us , at any time and all possibility of misunderstanding would have been avoided . 
When Miss Clarissa had shaken her head , Miss Lavinia resumed again referring to my letter through her eye glass . 
They both had little bright round twinkling eyes , by the way , which were like birds' eyes . 
They were not unlike birds , altogether having a sharp , brisk , sudden manner , and a little short , spruce way of adjusting themselves , like canaries . 
Miss Lavinia , as I have said , resumed 'You ask permission of my sister Clarissa and myself , Mr. Copperfield , to visit here , as the accepted suitor of our niece . 
We have ever been far from wishing to obtrude ourselves on anyone . 
But why not say so ? Let our brother Francis and his wife have their society . 
Let my sister Lavinia and myself have our society . 
We can find it for ourselves , I hope . 
As this appeared to be addressed to Traddles and me , both Traddles and I made some sort of reply . 
I think I observed , myself , that it was highly creditable to all concerned . 
I don't in the least know what I meant . 
'Sister Lavinia , said Miss Clarissa , having now relieved her mind , 'you can go on , my dear . 
We have no doubt that you think you like her very much . 
, as requesting that I would not interrupt the oracle , I begged pardon . 
It is modest and retiring , it lies in ambush , waits and waits . 
Such is the mature fruit . 
Sometimes a life glides away , and finds it still ripening in the shade . 
'The light for I call them , in comparison with such sentiments , the light inclinations of very young people , pursued Miss Lavinia , 'are dust , compared to rocks . 
Of the Inner Temple , I believe ? said Miss Clarissa , again glancing at my letter . 
Traddles said 'Exactly so , and became pretty red in the face . 
For the truth of this , I appealed to Traddles . 
Miss Clarissa looked at Miss Lavinia , and shook her head gravely . 
Miss Lavinia looked consciously at Miss Clarissa , and heaved a little sigh . 
'Sister Lavinia , said Miss Clarissa , 'take my smelling bottle . 
'Our brother Francis's child , remarked Miss Clarissa . 
to invite the family to her dinner table , we might have known our brother Francis's child better at the present moment . 
'It seems to us , said she , 'prudent , Mr. Traddles , to bring these feelings to the test of our own observation . 
At present we know nothing of them , and are not in a situation to judge how much reality there may be in them . 
Therefore we are inclined so far to accede to Mr. Copperfield's proposal , as to admit his visits here . 
'Be it so , assented Miss Lavinia , with a sigh 'until I have had an opportunity of observing them . 
'Copperfield , said Traddles , turning to me , 'you feel , I am sure , that nothing could be more reasonable or considerate . 
'Nothing ! cried I. 'I am deeply sensible of it . 
That no project whatever shall be entertained with regard to our niece , without being first submitted to us 'To you , sister Lavinia , Miss Clarissa interposed . 
'Be it so , Clarissa ! assented Miss Lavinia resignedly 'to me and receiving our concurrence . 
We must make this a most express and serious stipulation , not to be broken on any account . 
If Mr. Copperfield , or if you , Mr. Traddles , feel the least scruple , in giving this promise , I beg you to take time to consider it . 
I exclaimed , in a state of high ecstatic fervour , that not a moment's consideration could be necessary . 
You will allow us to retire . 
It was in vain for me to say that no consideration was necessary . 
They persisted in withdrawing for the specified time . 
Accordingly , these little birds hopped out with great dignity leaving me to receive the congratulations of Traddles , and to feel as if I were translated to regions of exquisite happiness . 
Exactly at the expiration of the quarter of an hour , they reappeared with no less dignity than they had disappeared . 
They had gone rustling away as if their little dresses were made of autumn leaves and they came rustling back , in like manner . 
I then bound myself once more to the prescribed conditions . 
'Sister Clarissa , said Miss Lavinia , 'the rest is with you . 
Miss Clarissa , unfolding her arms for the first time , took the notes and glanced at them . 
'We shall be happy , said Miss Clarissa , 'to see Mr. Copperfield to dinner , every Sunday , if it should suit his convenience . 
'In the course of the week , said Miss Clarissa , 'we shall be happy to see Mr. Copperfield to tea . 
Our hour is half past six . 
'Twice in the week , said Miss Clarissa , 'but , as a rule , not oftener . 
'Miss Trotwood , said Miss Clarissa , 'mentioned in Mr. Copperfield's letter , will perhaps call upon us . 
When visiting is better for the happiness of all parties , we are glad to receive visits , and return them . 
I intimated that my aunt would be proud and delighted to make their acquaintance though I must say I was not quite sure of their getting on very satisfactorily together . 
Miss Lavinia then arose , and begging Mr. Traddles to excuse us for a minute , requested me to follow her . 
I obeyed , all in a tremble , and was conducted into another room . 
'Why don't he go ? 'Who , my life ? 'Your friend , said Dora . 
'It isn't any business of his . 
'He is the best creature ! 'Oh , but we don't want any best creatures ! pouted Dora . 
'My dear , I argued , 'you will soon know him well , and like him of all things . 
And here is my aunt coming soon and you'll like her of all things too , when you know her . 
'No , please don't bring her ! said Dora , giving me a horrified little kiss , and folding her hands . 
I know she's a naughty , mischief making old thing ! Don't let her come here , Doady ! which was a corruption of David . 
, and she treated Dora just as if she had been a toy . 
'Nothing could be more satisfactory , said Traddles 'and they are very agreeable old ladies , I am sure . 
I shouldn't be at all surprised if you were to be married years before me , Copperfield . 
'Does your Sophy play on any instrument , Traddles ? I inquired , in the pride of my heart . 
'She knows enough of the piano to teach it to her little sisters , said Traddles . 
'Does she sing at all ? I asked . 
'Why , she sings ballads , sometimes , to freshen up the others a little when they're out of spirits , said Traddles . 
'She doesn't sing to the guitar ? said I. 'Oh dear no ! said Traddles . 
'Paint at all ? 'Not at all , said Traddles . 
I promised Traddles that he should hear Dora sing , and see some of her flower painting . 
He said he should like it very much , and we went home arm in arm in great good humour and delight . 
I encouraged him to talk about Sophy , on the way which he did with a loving reliance on her that I very much admired . 
I compared her in my mind with Dora , with considerable inward satisfaction but I candidly admitted to myself that she seemed to be an excellent kind of girl for Traddles , too . 
Of course my aunt was immediately made acquainted with the successful issue of the conference , and with all that had been said and done in the course of it . 
She was happy to see me so happy , and promised to call on Dora's aunts without loss of time . 
But she took such a long walk up and down our rooms that night , while I was writing to Agnes , that I began to think she meant to walk till morning . 
My letter to Agnes was a fervent and grateful one , narrating all the good effects that had resulted from my following her advice . 
She wrote , by return of post , to me . 
Her letter was hopeful , earnest , and cheerful . 
She was always cheerful from that time . 
I had my hands more full than ever , now . 
My daily journeys to Highgate considered , Putney was a long way off and I naturally wanted to go there as often as I could . 
The proposed tea drinkings being quite impracticable , I compounded with Miss Lavinia for permission to visit every Saturday afternoon , without detriment to my privileged Sundays . 
So , the close of every week was a delicious time for me and I got through the rest of the week by looking forward to it . 
I was wonderfully relieved to find that my aunt and Dora's aunts rubbed on , all things considered , much more smoothly than I could have expected . 
My aunt made her promised visit within a few days of the conference and within a few more days , Dora's aunts called upon her , in due state and form . 
Similar but more friendly exchanges took place afterwards , usually at intervals of three or four weeks . 
The only member of our small society who positively refused to adapt himself to circumstances , was Jip . 
but he never could prevail upon himself to bear my aunt's society . 
At length , Dora regularly muffled him in a towel and shut him up there , whenever my aunt was reported at the door . 
One thing troubled me much , after we had fallen into this quiet train . 
It was , that Dora seemed by one consent to be regarded like a pretty toy or plaything . 
What Miss Lavinia did , her sister did as a matter of course . 
It was very odd to me but they all seemed to treat Dora , in her degree , much as Dora treated Jip in his . 
, I said to her that I wished she could get them to behave towards her differently . 
'Because you know , my darling , I remonstrated , 'you are not a child . 
But the cookery book made Dora's head ache , and the figures made her cry . 
They wouldn't add up , she said . 
So she rubbed them out , and drew little nosegays and likenesses of me and Jip , all over the tablets . 
Then I playfully tried verbal instruction in domestic matters , as we walked about on a Saturday afternoon . 
'Would you know how to buy it , my darling ? I would repeat , perhaps , if I were very inflexible . 
Consequently , the principal use to which the cookery book was devoted , was being put down in the corner for Jip to stand upon . 
Heaven knows I write this , in no spirit of self laudation . 
I do not hold one natural gift , I dare say , that I have not abused . 
There is no such thing as such fulfilment on this earth . 
How much of the practice I have just reduced to precept , I owe to Agnes , I will not repeat here . 
My narrative proceeds to Agnes , with a thankful love . 
She came on a visit of a fortnight to the Doctor's . 
Mr. Wickfield was the Doctor's old friend , and the Doctor wished to talk with him , and do him good . 
It had been matter of conversation with Agnes when she was last in town , and this visit was the result . 
She and her father came together . 
Neither was I surprised when , on the very next day , Uriah , like a dutiful son , brought his worthy mother to take possession . 
'Do you mean that you are jealous of a female person ? He gave me a sidelong glance out of his sinister red eyes , and laughed . 
His eyes looked green now , as they watched mine with a rascally cunning . 
'And what do you mean by your look ? I retorted , quietly . 
'By my look ? Dear me , Copperfield , that's sharp practice ! What do I mean by my look ? 'Yes , said I. 'By your look . 
He seemed very much amused , and laughed as heartily as it was in his nature to laugh . 
'He never could come into the office , without ordering and shoving me about , said Uriah . 
'One of your fine gentlemen he was ! I was very meek and umble and I am . 
She's just the person as would put my Agnes up to higher sort of game . 
Now , I ain't one of your lady's men , Master Copperfield but I've had eyes in my ed , a pretty long time back . 
We umble ones have got eyes , mostly speaking and we look out of 'em . 
I endeavoured to appear unconscious and not disquieted , but , I saw in his face , with poor success . 
I don't approve of it . 
I don't mind acknowledging to you that I've got rather a grudging disposition , and want to keep off all intruders . 
I ain't a going , if I know it , to run the risk of being plotted against . 
'You are always plotting , and delude yourself into the belief that everybody else is doing the like , I think , said I. 'Perhaps so , Master Copperfield , he replied . 
'But I've got a motive , as my fellow partner used to say and I go at it tooth and nail . 
I mustn't be put upon , as a numble person , too much . 
I can't allow people in my way . 
Really they must come out of the cart , Master Copperfield ! 'I don't understand you , said I. 'Don't you , though ? he returned , with one of his jerks . 
'I'm astonished at that , Master Copperfield , you being usually so quick ! I'll try to be plainer , another time . 
Is that Mr. Maldon a norseback , ringing at the gate , sir ? 'It looks like him , I replied , as carelessly as I could . 
Uriah stopped short , put his hands between his great knobs of knees , and doubled himself up with laughter . 
Not a sound escaped from him . 
It was not on that evening but , as I well remember , on the next evening but one , which was a Sunday that I took Agnes to see Dora . 
I had arranged the visit , beforehand , with Miss Lavinia and Agnes was expected to tea . 
I was in a flutter of pride and anxiety pride in my dear little betrothed , and anxiety that Agnes should like her . 
I was troubled by no doubt of her being very pretty , in any case but it fell out that I had never seen her look so well . 
She was not in the drawing room when I presented Agnes to her little aunts , but was shyly keeping out of the way . 
I knew where to look for her , now and sure enough I found her stopping her ears again , behind the same dull old door . 
At first she wouldn't come at all and then she pleaded for five minutes by my watch . 
When at length she put her arm through mine , to be taken to the drawing room , her charming little face was flushed , and had never been so pretty . 
But , when we went into the room , and it turned pale , she was ten thousand times prettier yet . 
Dora was afraid of Agnes . 
She had told me that she knew Agnes was 'too clever' . 
I never was so happy . 
I never was so pleased as when I saw those two sit down together , side by side . 
As when I saw my little darling looking up so naturally to those cordial eyes . 
As when I saw the tender , beautiful regard which Agnes cast upon her . 
Miss Lavinia and Miss Clarissa partook , in their way , of my joy . 
It was the pleasantest tea table in the world . 
The gentle cheerfulness of Agnes went to all their hearts . 
'I am so glad , said Dora , after tea , 'that you like me . 
I didn't think you would and I want , more than ever , to be liked , now Julia Mills is gone . 
I have omitted to mention it , by the by . 
Agnes said she was afraid I must have given her an unpromising character but Dora corrected that directly . 
'Oh no ! she said , shaking her curls at me 'it was all praise . 
He thinks so much of your opinion , that I was quite afraid of it . 
'My good opinion cannot strengthen his attachment to some people whom he knows , said Agnes , with a smile 'it is not worth their having . 
The time was at hand when the coach was to call for us . 
I was standing alone before the fire , when Dora came stealing softly in , to give me that usual precious little kiss before I went . 
'No blood relation , I replied 'but we were brought up together , like brother and sister . 
'I wonder why you ever fell in love with me ? said Dora , beginning on another button of my coat . 
'Perhaps because I couldn't see you , and not love you , Dora ! 'Suppose you had never seen me at all , said Dora , going to another button . 
'Suppose we had never been born ! said I , gaily . 
They all came back together within five minutes afterwards , and Dora's unusual thoughtfulness was quite gone then . 
She was laughingly resolved to put Jip through the whole of his performances , before the coach came . 
, and were still unfinished when it was heard at the door . 
The stage coach was to put us down near Covent Garden , where we were to take another stage coach for Highgate . 
I was impatient for the short walk in the interval , that Agnes might praise Dora to me . 
When we had again alighted , and were walking in the starlight along the quiet road that led to the Doctor's house , I told Agnes it was her doing . 
'When you were sitting by her , said I , 'you seemed to be no less her guardian angel than mine and you seem so now , Agnes . 
'A poor angel , she returned , 'but faithful . 
I glanced at the serene face looking upward , and thought it was the stars that made it seem so noble . 
'There has been no change at home , said Agnes , after a few moments . 
'I have thought so much about it . 
'You must think less about it . 
Remember that I confide in simple love and truth at last . 
Have no apprehensions for me , Trotwood , she added , after a moment 'the step you dread my taking , I shall never take . 
Although I think I had never really feared it , in any season of cool reflection , it was an unspeakable relief to me to have this assurance from her own truthful lips . 
I told her so , earnestly . 
We are not likely to meet often , for some time to come but I shall be a good correspondent of Dora's , and we shall frequently hear of one another that way . 
We were now within the little courtyard of the Doctor's cottage . 
There was a light in the window of Mrs. Strong's chamber , and Agnes , pointing to it , bade me good night . 
'Do not be troubled , she said , giving me her hand , 'by our misfortunes and anxieties . 
I can be happier in nothing than in your happiness . 
If you can ever give me help , rely upon it I will ask you for it . 
God bless you always ! In her beaming smile , and in these last tones of her cheerful voice , I seemed again to see and hear my little Dora in her company . 
I stood awhile , looking through the porch at the stars , with a heart full of love and gratitude , and then walked slowly forth . 
A half reproachful fancy came into my mind , that he had been working at the Dictionary without my help . 
The first person whom I saw , to my surprise , by the sober light of the shaded lamp , was Uriah . 
He was standing close beside it , with one of his skeleton hands over his mouth , and the other resting on the Doctor's table . 
The Doctor sat in his study chair , covering his face with his hands . 
Mr. Wickfield , sorely troubled and distressed , was leaning forward , irresolutely touching the Doctor's arm . 
For an instant , I supposed that the Doctor was ill . 
I hastily advanced a step under that impression , when I met Uriah's eye , and saw what was the matter . 
I would have withdrawn , but the Doctor made a gesture to detain me , and I remained . 
'At any rate , observed Uriah , with a writhe of his ungainly person , 'we may keep the door shut . 
We needn't make it known to ALL the town . 
Saying which , he went on his toes to the door , which I had left open , and carefully closed it . 
He then came back , and took up his former position . 
There was an obtrusive show of compassionate zeal in his voice and manner , more intolerable at least to me than any demeanour he could have assumed . 
'I have felt it incumbent upon me , Master Copperfield , said Uriah , 'to point out to Doctor Strong what you and me have already talked about . 
He put his hand upon my shoulder , as it had been his custom to do when I was quite a little fellow , but did not lift his grey head . 
That was what my meaning was , sir , when you didn't understand me . 
I wonder now , when I recall his leer , that I did not collar him , and try to shake the breath out of his body . 
'I dare say I didn't make myself very clear , he went on , 'nor you neither . 
Naturally , we was both of us inclined to give such a subject a wide berth . 
The sound might have touched any heart , I thought , but it had no effect upon Uriah's . 
'There ! cried Uriah , shaking his head . 
, to think that Miss Agnes was mixing herself up with what oughtn't to be . 
I may have fallen into such doubts as I have had , through this mistake . 
'You have had doubts , Wickfield , said the Doctor , without lifting up his head . 
'Speak up , fellow partner , urged Uriah . 
'I had , at one time , certainly , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'I God forgive me I thought YOU had . 
'No , no , no ! returned the Doctor , in a tone of most pathetic grief . 
'I thought , at one time , said Mr. Wickfield , 'that you wished to send Maldon abroad to effect a desirable separation . 
'No , no , no ! returned the Doctor . 
'To give Annie pleasure , by making some provision for the companion of her childhood . 
'So I found , said Mr. Wickfield . 
'I couldn't doubt it , when you told me so . 
a lady of such youth , and such attractions , however real her respect for you , might have been influenced in marrying , by worldly considerations only . 
I make no allowance for innumerable feelings and circumstances that may have all tended to good . 
For Heaven's sake remember that ! 'How kind he puts it ! said Uriah , shaking his head . 
I never mentioned this to anyone . 
I never meant it to be known to anyone . 
Mr. Wickfield held it for a little while in his , with his head bowed down . 
'I am sure , said Uriah , writhing himself into the silence like a Conger eel , 'that this is a subject full of unpleasantness to everybody . 
But since we have got so far , I ought to take the liberty of mentioning that Copperfield has noticed it too . 
You know you knew what I meant , Copperfield . 
Don't deny it ! You deny it with the best intentions but don't do it , Copperfield . 
It was of no use raging . 
I could not undo that . 
Say what I would , I could not unsay it . 
We were silent again , and remained so , until the Doctor rose and walked twice or thrice across the room . 
I believe I have been very much to blame . 
Uriah Heep gave a kind of snivel . 
I think to express sympathy . 
'Of which my Annie , said the Doctor , 'never , but for me , could have been the object . 
Gentlemen , I am old now , as you know I do not feel , tonight , that I have much to live for . 
, is better than mine . 
'I married that lady , said the Doctor , 'when she was extremely young . 
I took her to myself when her character was scarcely formed . 
So far as it was developed , it had been my happiness to form it . 
I knew her father well . 
I had taught her what I could , for the love of all her beautiful and virtuous qualities . 
'I regarded myself as a refuge , for her , from the dangers and vicissitudes of life . 
I persuaded myself that , unequal though we were in years , she would live tranquilly and contentedly with me . 
Every word he uttered had a force that no other grace could have imparted to it . 
'My life with this lady has been very happy . 
Until tonight , I have had uninterrupted occasion to bless the day on which I did her great injustice . 
That she does regard him with some innocent regret , with some blameless thoughts of what might have been , but for me , is , I fear , too true . 
Much that I have seen , but not noted , has come back upon me with new meaning , during this last trying hour . 
But , beyond this , gentlemen , the dear lady's name never must be coupled with a word , a breath , of doubt . 
For a little while , his eye kindled and his voice was firm for a little while he was again silent . 
Presently , he proceeded as before 'It only remains for me , to bear the knowledge of the unhappiness I have occasioned , as submissively as I can . 
It is she who should reproach not I. To save her from misconstruction , cruel misconstruction , that even my friends have not been able to avoid , becomes my duty . 
The more retired we live , the better I shall discharge it . 
I could not see him for the tears which his earnestness and goodness , so adorned by , and so adorning , the perfect simplicity of his manner , brought into my eyes . 
He had moved to the door , when he added 'Gentlemen , I have shown you my heart . 
I am sure you will respect it . 
What we have said tonight is never to be said more . 
Wickfield , give me an old friend's arm upstairs ! Mr. Wickfield hastened to him . 
Without interchanging a word they went slowly out of the room together , Uriah looking after them . 
'Well , Master Copperfield ! said Uriah , meekly turning to me . 
The whole of his lank cheek was invitingly before me , and I struck it with my open hand with that force that my fingers tingled as if I had burnt them . 
He caught the hand in his , and we stood in that connexion , looking at each other . 
'You dog , I'll know no more of you . 
'Won't you ? said he , constrained by the pain of his cheek to put his hand there . 
'Perhaps you won't be able to help it . 
Isn't this ungrateful of you , now ? 'I have shown you often enough , said I , 'that I despise you . 
I have shown you now , more plainly , that I do . 
I rather think that neither the blow , nor the allusion , would have escaped me , but for the assurance I had had from Agnes that night . 
There was another long pause . 
His eyes , as he looked at me , seemed to take every shade of colour that could make eyes ugly . 
'Copperfield , he said , removing his hand from his cheek , 'you have always gone against me . 
I know you always used to be against me at Mr. Wickfield's . 
'You may think what you like , said I , still in a towering rage . 
'If it is not true , so much the worthier you . 
'And yet I always liked you , Copperfield ! he rejoined . 
I deigned to make him no reply and , taking up my hat , was going out to bed , when he came between me and the door . 
'Copperfield , he said , 'there must be two parties to a quarrel . 
'You may go to the devil ! said I. 'Don't say that ! he replied . 
'I know you'll be sorry afterwards . 
How can you make yourself so inferior to me , as to show such a bad spirit ? But I forgive you . 
'You forgive me ! I repeated disdainfully . 
'I do , and you can't help yourself , replied Uriah . 
'To think of your going and attacking me , that have always been a friend to you ! But there can't be a quarrel without two parties , and I won't be one . 
I will be a friend to you , in spite of you . 
So now you know what you've got to expect . 
in a low tone , that the house might not be disturbed at an unseasonable hour , did not improve my temper though my passion was cooling down . 
But he slept out of the house too , at his mother's lodging and before I had gone many hundred yards , came up with me . 
I don't intend to mention it to mother , nor to any living soul . 
I'm determined to forgive you . 
But I do wonder that you should lift your hand against a person that you knew to be so umble ! I felt only less mean than he . 
He knew me better than I knew myself . 
In the morning , when I came out , the early church bell was ringing , and he was walking up and down with his mother . 
He addressed me as if nothing had happened , and I could do no less than reply . 
I had struck him hard enough to give him the toothache , I suppose . 
At all events his face was tied up in a black silk handkerchief , which , with his hat perched on the top of it , was far from improving his appearance . 
I heard that he went to a dentist's in London on the Monday morning , and had a tooth out . 
I hope it was a double one . 
The Doctor gave out that he was not quite well and remained alone , for a considerable part of every day , during the remainder of the visit . 
Agnes and her father had been gone a week , before we resumed our usual work . 
On the day preceding its resumption , the Doctor gave me with his own hands a folded note not sealed . 
It was addressed to myself and laid an injunction on me , in a few affectionate words , never to refer to the subject of that evening . 
I had confided it to my aunt , but to no one else . 
It was not a subject I could discuss with Agnes , and Agnes certainly had not the least suspicion of what had passed . 
Neither , I felt convinced , had Mrs. Strong then . 
Several weeks elapsed before I saw the least change in her . 
It came on slowly , like a cloud when there is no wind . 
Often , when we were at work , and she was sitting by , I would see her pausing and looking at him with that memorable face . 
Afterwards , I sometimes observed her rise , with her eyes full of tears , and go out of the room . 
Gradually , an unhappy shadow fell upon her beauty , and deepened every day . 
Mrs. Markleham was a regular inmate of the cottage then but she talked and talked , and saw nothing . 
, take her forehead between his hands , kiss it , and go hurriedly away , too much moved to remain . 
I saw her stand where he had left her , like a statue and then bend down her head , and clasp her hands , and weep , I cannot say how sorrowfully . 
Sometimes , after that , I fancied that she tried to speak even to me , in intervals when we were left alone . 
But she never uttered a word . 
But Annie , in a spiritless unhappy way , only went whither she was led , and seemed to have no care for anything . 
I did not know what to think . 
Neither did my aunt who must have walked , at various times , a hundred miles in her uncertainty . 
To this mind of the heart , if I may call it so , in Mr. Dick , some bright ray of the truth shot straight . 
'Nobody but myself , Trot , knows what that man is ! my aunt would proudly remark , when we conversed about it . 
'Dick will distinguish himself yet ! I must refer to one other topic before I close this chapter . 
'You will doubtless be surprised , my dear Mr. Copperfield , to receive this communication . 
Still more so , by its contents . 
Still more so , by the stipulation of implicit confidence which I beg to impose . 
, I know no one of whom I can better ask advice than my friend and former lodger . 
, there has always been preserved a spirit of mutual confidence . 
Mr. Micawber may have occasionally given a bill without consulting me , or he may have misled me as to the period when that obligation would become due . 
'You will picture to yourself , my dear Mr. Copperfield , what the poignancy of my feelings must be , when I inform you that Mr. Micawber is entirely changed . 
'But this is not all . 
and he inexorably refuses to give any explanation whatever of this distracting policy . 
'This is hard to bear . 
With loves from the children , and a smile from the happily unconscious stranger , I remain , dear Mr. Copperfield , Your afflicted , 'EMMA MICAWBER . 
but the letter set me thinking about him very much . 
CHAPTER ANOTHER RETROSPECT Once again , let me pause upon a memorable period of my life . 
Let me stand aside , to see the phantoms of those days go by me , accompanying the shadow of myself , in dim procession . 
Weeks , months , seasons , pass along . 
They seem little more than a summer day and a winter evening . 
In a breath , the river that flows through our Sunday walks is sparkling in the summer sun , is ruffled by the winter wind , or thickened with drifting heaps of ice . 
Faster than ever river ran towards the sea , it flashes , darkens , and rolls away . 
Not a thread changes , in the house of the two little bird like ladies . 
The clock ticks over the fireplace , the weather glass hangs in the hall . 
Neither clock nor weather glass is ever right but we believe in both , devoutly . 
I have come legally to man's estate . 
I have attained the dignity of twenty one . 
But this is a sort of dignity that may be thrust upon one . 
Let me think what I have achieved . 
I have tamed that savage stenographic mystery . 
I make a respectable income by it . 
I am in high repute for my accomplishment in all pertaining to the art , and am joined with eleven others in reporting the debates in Parliament for a Morning Newspaper . 
Night after night , I record predictions that never come to pass , professions that are never fulfilled , explanations that are only meant to mystify . 
Britannia , that unfortunate female , is always before me , like a trussed fowl skewered through and through with office pens , and bound hand and foot with red tape . 
I am sufficiently behind the scenes to know the worth of political life . 
I am quite an Infidel about it , and shall never be converted . 
My dear old Traddles has tried his hand at the same pursuit , but it is not in Traddles's way . 
He is perfectly good humoured respecting his failure , and reminds me that he always did consider himself slow . 
He has occasional employment on the same newspaper , in getting up the facts of dry subjects , to be written about and embellished by more fertile minds . 
He is called to the bar and with admirable industry and self denial has scraped another hundred pounds together , to fee a Conveyancer whose chambers he attends . 
A great deal of very hot port wine was consumed at his call and , considering the figure , I should think the Inner Temple must have made a profit by it . 
I have come out in another way . 
I have taken with fear and trembling to authorship . 
I wrote a little something , in secret , and sent it to a magazine , and it was published in the magazine . 
Since then , I have taken heart to write a good many trifling pieces . 
Now , I am regularly paid for them . 
We have removed , from Buckingham Street , to a pleasant little cottage very near the one I looked at , when my enthusiasm first came on . 
, is not going to remain here , but intends removing herself to a still more tiny cottage close at hand . 
They make a lay figure of my dear . 
They are always sending for her to come and try something on . 
Peggotty comes up to make herself useful , and falls to work immediately . 
Her department appears to be , to clean everything over and over again . 
She rubs everything that can be rubbed , until it shines , like her own honest forehead , with perpetual friction . 
And now it is , that I begin to see her solitary brother passing through the dark streets at night , and looking , as he goes , among the wandering faces . 
I never speak to him at such an hour . 
I know too well , as his grave figure passes onward , what he seeks , and what he dreads . 
I am going to take out the licence . 
It is a little document to do so much and Traddles contemplates it , as it lies upon my desk , half in admiration , half in awe . 
Nevertheless , I am in a dream , a flustered , happy , hurried dream . 
The Surrogate knows me , when I go down to be sworn and disposes of me easily , as if there were a Masonic understanding between us . 
Traddles is not at all wanted , but is in attendance as my general backer . 
'I hope the next time you come here , my dear fellow , I say to Traddles , 'it will be on the same errand for yourself . 
And I hope it will be soon . 
'Thank you for your good wishes , my dear Copperfield , he replies . 
'At seven , says Traddles , looking at his plain old silver watch the very watch he once took a wheel out of , at school , to make a water mill . 
'That is about Miss Wickfield's time , is it not ? 'A little earlier . 
Her time is half past eight . 
And really the great friendship and consideration of personally associating Sophy with the joyful occasion , and inviting her to be a bridesmaid in conjunction with Miss Wickfield , demands my warmest thanks . 
I am extremely sensible of it . 
I hear him , and shake hands with him and we talk , and walk , and dine , and so on but I don't believe it . 
Sophy arrives at the house of Dora's aunts , in due course . 
I have brought Agnes from the Canterbury coach , and her cheerful and beautiful face is among us for the second time . 
Still I don't believe it . 
We have a delightful evening , and are supremely happy but I don't believe it yet . 
I can't check off my happiness as it takes place . 
I can't make out when yesterday was . 
I seem to have been carrying the licence about , in my pocket , many months . 
Next day , too , when we all go in a flock to see the house our house Dora's and mine I am quite unable to regard myself as its master . 
I seem to be there , by permission of somebody else . 
I half expect the real master to come home presently , and say he is glad to see me . 
Another happy evening , quite as unreal as all the rest of it , and I steal into the usual room before going away . 
I suppose they have not done trying on yet . 
Miss Lavinia peeps in , and tells me mysteriously that she will not be long . 
She is rather long , notwithstanding but by and by I hear a rustling at the door , and someone taps . 
I say , 'Come in ! but someone taps again . 
'Do you think it pretty , Doady ? says Dora . 
Pretty ! I should rather think I did . 
'And are you sure you like me very much ? says Dora . 
I have never seen my aunt in such state . 
She is dressed in lavender coloured silk , and has a white bonnet on , and is amazing . 
Janet has dressed her , and is there to look at me . 
Peggotty is ready to go to church , intending to behold the ceremony from the gallery . 
Mr. Dick , who is to give my darling to me at the altar , has had his hair curled . 
No doubt I see this , because I know it is so but I am astray , and seem to see nothing . 
Nor do I believe anything whatever . 
My aunt sits with my hand in hers all the way . 
'God bless you , Trot ! My own boy never could be dearer . 
I think of poor dear Baby this morning . 
'So do I. And of all I owe to you , dear aunt . 
The church is calm enough , I am sure but it might be a steam power loom in full action , for any sedative effect it has on me . 
I am too far gone for that . 
The rest is all a more or less incoherent dream . 
Of her soon cheering up again , and our signing the register all round . 
Of their whispering , as we pass , what a youthful couple we are , and what a pretty little wife she is . 
Of our all being so merry and talkative in the carriage going back . 
asked for it , she almost fainted , having been convinced that he would contrive to lose it , or to have his pocket picked . 
Of Agnes laughing gaily and of Dora being so fond of Agnes that she will not be separated from her , but still keeps her hand . 
and of Jip's having wedding cake , and its not agreeing with him afterwards . 
Of the pair of hired post horses being ready , and of Dora's going away to change her dress . 
Of Dora's being ready , and of Miss Lavinia's hovering about her , loth to lose the pretty toy that has given her so much pleasant occupation . 
Of Dora's making a long series of surprised discoveries that she has forgotten all sorts of little things and of everybody's running everywhere to fetch them . 
Of their all closing about Dora , when at last she begins to say good bye , looking , with their bright colours and ribbons , like a bed of flowers . 
Of my darling being almost smothered among the flowers , and coming out , laughing and crying both together , to my jealous arms . 
, and Dora's saying no , that she must carry him , or else he'll think she don't like him any more , now she is married , and will break his heart . 
Of her waving her little hand , and our going away once more . 
Of her once more stopping , and looking back , and hurrying to Agnes , and giving Agnes , above all the others , her last kisses and farewells . 
We drive away together , and I awake from the dream . 
I believe it at last . 
They are gone , and I resume the journey of my story . 
It seemed such an extraordinary thing to have Dora always there . 
It was such a stupendous thing to know for certain that she put her hair in papers . 
We had a servant , of course . 
She kept house for us . 
I have still a latent belief that she must have been Mrs. Crupp's daughter in disguise , we had such an awful time of it with Mary Anne . 
Her nature was represented to us , when we engaged her , as being feebly expressed in her name . 
to a sort of perpetual measles or fiery rash . 
She had a cousin in the Life Guards , with such long legs that he looked like the afternoon shadow of somebody else . 
His shell jacket was as much too little for him as he was too big for the premises . 
He made the cottage smaller than it need have been , by being so very much out of proportion to it . 
Besides which , the walls were not thick , and , whenever he passed the evening at our house , we always knew of it by hearing one continual growl in the kitchen . 
Our treasure was warranted sober and honest . 
I am therefore willing to believe that she was in a fit when we found her under the boiler and that the deficient tea spoons were attributable to the dustman . 
But she preyed upon our minds dreadfully . 
We felt our inexperience , and were unable to help ourselves . 
We should have been at her mercy , if she had had any but she was a remorseless woman , and had none . 
She was the cause of our first little quarrel . 
'My love , because it's five , and we were to have dined at four . 
Dora glanced wistfully at the clock , and hinted that she thought it was too fast . 
'On the contrary , my love , said I , referring to my watch , 'it's a few minutes too slow . 
'Why not , my love ? I gently asked . 
'There's a good child , said Dora , 'it makes its face so much prettier to laugh . 
Come ! Sit down on this chair , close beside me ! Give me the pencil ! There ! Now let us talk sensibly . 
Now , is it ? 'N n no ! replied Dora , faintly . 
'My love , how you tremble ! 'Because I KNOW you're going to scold me , exclaimed Dora , in a piteous voice . 
'My sweet , I am only going to reason . 
'Oh , but reasoning is worse than scolding ! exclaimed Dora , in despair . 
'I didn't marry to be reasoned with . 
'Dora , my darling ! 'No , I am not your darling . 
Because you must be sorry that you married me , or else you wouldn't reason with me ! returned Dora . 
I felt so injured by the inconsequential nature of this charge , that it gave me courage to be grave . 
'Now , my own Dora , said I , 'you are very childish , and are talking nonsense . 
I don't mean to reproach you , my dear , but this is not comfortable . 
'Oh , you cruel , cruel boy , to say I am a disagreeable wife ! cried Dora . 
'Now , my dear Dora , you must know that I never said that ! 'You said , I wasn't comfortable ! cried Dora . 
'I said the housekeeping was not comfortable ! 'It's exactly the same thing ! cried Dora . 
And she evidently thought so , for she wept most grievously . 
I took another turn across the room , full of love for my pretty wife , and distracted by self accusatory inclinations to knock my head against the door . 
I sat down again , and said 'I am not blaming you , Dora . 
We have both a great deal to learn . 
'accustom yourself to look after Mary Anne . 
Likewise to act a little for yourself , and me . 
'I wonder , I do , at your making such ungrateful speeches , sobbed Dora . 
Or that it cost one pound six which was more than we can afford . 
'You enjoyed it very much , sobbed Dora . 
'And you said I was a Mouse . 
'And I'll say so again , my love , I returned , 'a thousand times ! But I had wounded Dora's soft little heart , and she was not to be comforted . 
She was so pathetic in her sobbing and bewailing , that I felt as if I had said I don't know what to hurt her . 
I was obliged to hurry away I was kept out late and I felt all night such pangs of remorse as made me miserable . 
I had the conscience of an assassin , and was haunted by a vague sense of enormous wickedness . 
It was two or three hours past midnight when I got home . 
I found my aunt , in our house , sitting up for me . 
'Is anything the matter , aunt ? said I , alarmed . 
'Nothing , Trot , she replied . 
'Sit down , sit down . 
Little Blossom has been rather out of spirits , and I have been keeping her company . 
As I sat thinking , I happened to meet my aunt's eyes , which were resting on my face . 
There was an anxious expression in them , but it cleared directly . 
'I assure you , aunt , said I , 'I have been quite unhappy myself all night , to think of Dora's being so . 
But I had no other intention than to speak to her tenderly and lovingly about our home affairs . 
'You must have patience , Trot , said she . 
Heaven knows I don't mean to be unreasonable , aunt ! 'No , no , said my aunt . 
'But Little Blossom is a very tender little blossom , and the wind must be gentle with her . 
I thanked my good aunt , in my heart , for her tenderness towards my wife and I was sure that she knew I did . 
Her tone was so very earnest that I raised my eyes in surprise . 
'I look back on my life , child , said my aunt , 'and I think of some who are in their graves , with whom I might have been on kinder terms . 
If I judged harshly of other people's mistakes in marriage , it may have been because I had bitter reason to judge harshly of my own . 
I have been a grumpy , frumpy , wayward sort of a woman , a good many years . 
I am still , and I always shall be . 
I want our pet to like me , and be as gay as a butterfly . 
'These are early days , Trot , she pursued , 'and Rome was not built in a day , nor in a year . 
You have chosen freely for yourself' a cloud passed over her face for a moment , I thought 'and you have chosen a very pretty and a very affectionate creature . 
by the qualities she has , and not by the qualities she may not have . 
The latter you must develop in her , if you can . 
And if you cannot , child , here my aunt rubbed her nose , 'you must just accustom yourself to do without 'em . 
But remember , my dear , your future is between you two . 
No one can assist you you are to work it out for yourselves . 
'Now , said she , 'light my little lantern , and see me into my bandbox by the garden path' for there was a communication between our cottages in that direction . 
The next domestic trial we went through , was the Ordeal of Servants . 
by a long line of Incapables terminating in a young person of genteel appearance , who went to Greenwich Fair in Dora's bonnet . 
After whom I remember nothing but an average equality of failure . 
Everybody we had anything to do with seemed to cheat us . 
Our appearance in a shop was a signal for the damaged goods to be brought out immediately . 
If we bought a lobster , it was full of water . 
All our meat turned out to be tough , and there was hardly any crust to our loaves . 
But the principle always failed us by some curious fatality , and we never could hit any medium between redness and cinders . 
I had reason to believe that in accomplishing these failures we incurred a far greater expense than if we had achieved a series of triumphs . 
And the most wonderful fact of all was , that we never had anything in the house . 
As to the washerwoman pawning the clothes , and coming in a state of penitent intoxication to apologize , I suppose that might have happened several times to anybody . 
Also the chimney on fire , the parish engine , and perjury on the part of the Beadle . 
the parentheses always referring to Dora , who was supposed , it appeared on explanation , to have imbibed the whole of these refreshments . 
One of our first feats in the housekeeping way was a little dinner to Traddles . 
I met him in town , and asked him to walk out with me that afternoon . 
He readily consenting , I wrote to Dora , saying I would bring him home . 
It was pleasant weather , and on the road we made my domestic happiness the theme of conversation . 
I suspect it may have been because nothing had a place of its own , except Jip's pagoda , which invariably blocked up the main thoroughfare . 
However , as I knew how tender hearted my dear Dora was , and how sensitive she would be to any slight upon her favourite , I hinted no objection . 
'Oysters , dear , said Dora , timidly . 
'Was that YOUR thought ? said I , delighted . 
'Ye yes , Doady , said Dora . 
'There never was a happier one ! I exclaimed , laying down the carving knife and fork . 
But I I am afraid there's something the matter with them . 
Here Dora shook her head , and diamonds twinkled in her eyes . 
'They are only opened in both shells , said I. 'Take the top one off , my love . 
'But it won't come off ! said Dora , trying very hard , and looking very much distressed . 
They never had been opened and we had no oyster knives and couldn't have used them if we had so we looked at the oysters and ate the mutton . 
At least we ate as much of it as was done , and made up with capers . 
When Traddles went away , and I came back into the parlour from seeing him out , my wife planted her chair close to mine , and sat down by my side . 
'I am very sorry , she said . 
'Will you try to teach me , Doady ? 'I must teach myself first , Dora , said I. 'I am as bad as you , love . 
'Why so ? I asked . 
'I think she might have improved me , and I think I might have learned from her , said Dora . 
'All in good time , my love . 
Agnes has had her father to take care of for these many years , you should remember . 
'What is it ? I asked with a smile . 
'It's a stupid name , she said , shaking her curls for a moment . 
I laughingly asked my child wife what her fancy was in desiring to be so called . 
I only mean that you should think of me that way . 
I had not been serious with her having no idea until now , that she was serious herself . 
But her affectionate nature was so happy in what I now said to her with my whole heart , that her face became a laughing one before her glittering eyes were dry . 
This appeal of Dora's made a strong impression on me . 
I may not have used it to the best account I was young and inexperienced but I never turned a deaf ear to its artless pleading . 
Dora told me , shortly afterwards , that she was going to be a wonderful housekeeper . 
But the figures had the old obstinate propensity they WOULD NOT add up . 
When she had entered two or three laborious items in the account book , Jip would walk over the page , wagging his tail , and smear them all out . 
Her own little right hand middle finger got steeped to the very bone in ink and I think that was the only decided result obtained . 
First of all , she would bring out the immense account book , and lay it down upon the table , with a deep sigh . 
Then she would open it at the place where Jip had made it illegible last night , and call Jip up , to look at his misdeeds . 
This would occasion a diversion in Jip's favour , and some inking of his nose , perhaps , as a penalty . 
Then she would take up a pen , and begin to write , and find a hair in it . 
Then she would take up another pen , and begin to write , and find that it spluttered . 
They make my head ache so . 
And they won't do anything I want ! Then I would say , 'Now let us try together . 
Let me show you , Dora . 
I had a great deal of work to do , and had many anxieties , but the same considerations made me keep them to myself . 
I am far from sure , now , that it was right to do this , but I did it for my child wife's sake . 
I search my breast , and I commit its secrets , if I know them , without any reservation to this paper . 
The old unhappy loss or want of something had , I am conscious , some place in my heart but not to the embitterment of my life . 
I was a boyish husband as to years . 
I had known the softening influence of no other sorrows or experiences than those recorded in these leaves . 
If I did any wrong , as I may have done much , I did it in mistaken love , and in my want of wisdom . 
I write the exact truth . 
It would avail me nothing to extenuate it now . 
Thus it was that I took upon myself the toils and cares of our life , and had no partner in them . 
We lived much as before , in reference to our scrambling household arrangements but I had got used to those , and Dora I was pleased to see was seldom vexed now . 
She was bright and cheerful in the old childish way , loved me dearly , and was happy with her old trifles . 
But generally , when I raised my head , I saw her blue eyes looking at me with the quiet attention of which I have already spoken . 
'Oh , what a weary boy ! said Dora one night , when I met her eyes as I was shutting up my desk . 
'What a weary girl ! said I. 'That's more to the purpose . 
You must go to bed another time , my love . 
It's far too late for you . 
'No , don't send me to bed ! pleaded Dora , coming to my side . 
'Pray , don't do that ! 'Dora ! To my amazement she was sobbing on my neck . 
'Not well , my dear ! not happy ! 'Yes ! quite well , and very happy ! said Dora . 
'But say you'll let me stop , and see you write . 
'Why , what a sight for such bright eyes at midnight ! I replied . 
'Are they bright , though ? returned Dora , laughing . 
'I'm so glad they're bright . 
'Little Vanity ! said I. But it was not vanity it was only harmless delight in my admiration . 
I knew that very well , before she told me so . 
'If you think them pretty , say I may always stop , and see you write ! said Dora . 
'Do you think them pretty ? 'Very pretty . 
'Then let me always stop and see you write . 
'I am afraid that won't improve their brightness , Dora . 
'Yes , it will ! Because , you clever boy , you'll not forget me then , while you are full of silent fancies . 
Will you mind it , if I say something very , very silly ? more than usual ? inquired Dora , peeping over my shoulder into my face . 
'What wonderful thing is that ? said I. 'Please let me hold the pens , said Dora . 
'I want to have something to do with all those many hours when you are so industrious . 
May I hold the pens ? The remembrance of her pretty joy when I said yes , brings tears into my eyes . 
The next time I sat down to write , and regularly afterwards , she sat in her old place , with a spare bundle of pens at her side . 
I occasionally made a pretence of wanting a page or two of manuscript copied . 
Then Dora was in her glory . 
She took possession of the keys soon after this , and went jingling about the house with the whole bunch in a little basket , tied to her slender waist . 
She was quite satisfied that a good deal was effected by this make belief of housekeeping and was as merry as if we had been keeping a baby house , for a joke . 
Dora was hardly less affectionate to my aunt than to me , and often told her of the time when she was afraid she was 'a cross old thing' . 
I never saw my aunt unbend more systematically to anyone . 
Living in his neighbourhood , I saw him frequently and we all went to his house on two or three occasions to dinner or tea . 
The Old Soldier was in permanent quarters under the Doctor's roof . 
She was exactly the same as ever , and the same immortal butterflies hovered over her cap . 
Like some other mothers , whom I have known in the course of my life , Mrs. Markleham was far more fond of pleasure than her daughter was . 
She required a great deal of amusement , and , like a deep old soldier , pretended , in consulting her own inclinations , to be devoting herself to her child . 
The Doctor's desire that Annie should be entertained , was therefore particularly acceptable to this excellent parent who expressed unqualified approval of his discretion . 
I have no doubt , indeed , that she probed the Doctor's wound without knowing it . 
The Doctor nodded his benevolent head . 
'When she comes to her mother's age , said Mrs. Markleham , with a flourish of her fan , 'then it'll be another thing . 
You might put ME into a Jail , with genteel society and a rubber , and I should never care to come out . 
But I am not Annie , you know and Annie is not her mother . 
'Surely , surely , said the Doctor . 
'No , of course not , retorted the Old Soldier . 
'Take your Dictionary , for example . 
But we can't expect a Dictionary especially when it's making to interest Annie , can we ? The Doctor shook his head . 
'And that's why I so much approve , said Mrs. Markleham , tapping him on the shoulder with her shut up fan , 'of your thoughtfulness . 
It shows that you don't expect , as many elderly people do expect , old heads on young shoulders . 
You have studied Annie's character , and you understand it . 
That's what I find so charming ! Even the calm and patient face of Doctor Strong expressed some little sense of pain , I thought , under the infliction of these compliments . 
'Therefore , my dear Doctor , said the Old Soldier , giving him several affectionate taps , 'you may command me , at all times and seasons . 
Now , do understand that I am entirely at your service . 
I am ready to go with Annie to operas , concerts , exhibitions , all kinds of places and you shall never find that I am tired . 
Duty , my dear Doctor , before every consideration in the universe ! She was as good as her word . 
She was one of those people who can bear a great deal of pleasure , and she never flinched in her perseverance in the cause . 
, but she found out something that she was certain Annie would like to see . 
It was in vain for Annie to protest that she was weary of such things . 
This was usually said in the Doctor's presence , and appeared to me to constitute Annie's principal inducement for withdrawing her objections when she made any . 
But in general she resigned herself to her mother , and went where the Old Soldier would . 
It rarely happened now that Mr. Maldon accompanied them . 
Sometimes my aunt and Dora were invited to do so , and accepted the invitation . 
Sometimes Dora only was asked . 
I believed that the Doctor was right , and I had no worse suspicions . 
mended the matter at all . 
But her abiding reliance was on Mr. Dick . 
Unconscious of this prediction , Mr. Dick continued to occupy precisely the same ground in reference to the Doctor and to Mrs. Strong . 
He seemed neither to advance nor to recede . 
'Before I sit down , I wish to make an observation . 
You know your aunt ? 'A little , I replied . 
'Now , boy , said Mr. Dick , 'I am going to put a question to you . 
'As many as you please , said I. 'What do you consider me , sir ? asked Mr. Dick , folding his arms . 
'A dear old friend , said I. 'Thank you , Trotwood , returned Mr. Dick , laughing , and reaching across in high glee to shake hands with me . 
'But I mean , boy , resuming his gravity , 'what do you consider me in this respect ? touching his forehead . 
I was puzzled how to answer , but he helped me with a word . 
'Weak ? said Mr. Dick . 
'Well , I replied , dubiously . 
'Exactly ! cried Mr. Dick , who seemed quite enchanted by my reply . 
'There was that sort of thing done to me somehow . 
Eh ? I nodded at him , and he nodded back again . 
'In short , boy , said Mr. Dick , dropping his voice to a whisper , 'I am simple . 
I would have qualified that conclusion , but he stopped me . 
'Yes , I am ! She pretends I am not . 
She won't hear of it but I am . 
If she hadn't stood my friend , sir , I should have been shut up , to lead a dismal life these many years . 
But I'll provide for her ! I never spend the copying money . 
I put it in a box . 
I have made a will . 
I'll leave it all to her . 
She shall be rich noble ! Mr. Dick took out his pocket handkerchief , and wiped his eyes . 
He then folded it up with great care , pressed it smooth between his two hands , put it in his pocket , and seemed to put my aunt away with it . 
'Now you are a scholar , Trotwood , said Mr. Dick . 
'You are a fine scholar . 
You know what a learned man , what a great man , the Doctor is . 
You know what honour he has always done me . 
Not proud in his wisdom . 
Humble , humble condescending even to poor Dick , who is simple and knows nothing . 
I have sent his name up , on a scrap of paper , to the kite , along the string , when it has been in the sky , among the larks . 
The kite has been glad to receive it , sir , and the sky has been brighter with it . 
I delighted him by saying , most heartily , that the Doctor was deserving of our best respect and highest esteem . 
'And his beautiful wife is a star , said Mr. Dick . 
I have seen her shine , sir . 
But , bringing his chair nearer , and laying one hand upon my knee 'clouds , sir clouds . 
I answered the solicitude which his face expressed , by conveying the same expression into my own , and shaking my head . 
'What clouds ? said Mr. Dick . 
'There is some unfortunate division between them , I replied . 
'Some unhappy cause of separation . 
It may be inseparable from the discrepancy in their years . 
It may have grown up out of almost nothing . 
'Doctor not angry with her , Trotwood ? he said , after some time . 
'Then , I have got it , boy ! said Mr. Dick . 
Why has she done nothing to set things right ? 'Too delicate and difficult a subject for such interference , I replied . 
'Fine scholar , said Mr. Dick , touching me with his finger . 
'Why has HE done nothing ? 'For the same reason , I returned . 
'Then , I have got it , boy ! said Mr. Dick . 
I'll bring them together , boy . 
They'll not object to me . 
They'll not mind what I do , if it's wrong . 
And who minds Dick ? Dick's nobody ! Whoo ! He blew a slight , contemptuous breath , as if he blew himself away . 
It was fortunate he had proceeded so far with his mystery , for we heard the coach stop at the little garden gate , which brought my aunt and Dora home . 
'Not a word , boy ! he pursued in a whisper 'leave all the blame with Dick simple Dick mad Dick . 
I have been thinking , sir , for some time , that I was getting it , and now I have got it . 
After what you have said to me , I am sure I have got it . 
, to enjoin inviolable secrecy on me . 
At last I began to believe , that , in the flighty and unsettled state of his mind , he had either forgotten his intention or abandoned it . 
One fair evening , when Dora was not inclined to go out , my aunt and I strolled up to the Doctor's cottage . 
It was twilight when we reached the cottage . 
Mrs. Strong was just coming out of the garden , where Mr. Dick yet lingered , busy with his knife , helping the gardener to point some stakes . 
The Doctor was engaged with someone in his study but the visitor would be gone directly , Mrs. Strong said , and begged us to remain and see him . 
We went into the drawing room with her , and sat down by the darkening window . 
There was never any ceremony about the visits of such old friends and neighbours as we were . 
'I never had such a turn in all my life ! 'Have you been to the Study , then , mama ? asked Annie . 
'BEEN to the Study , my dear ! she returned emphatically . 
'Indeed I have ! I came upon the amiable creature if you'll imagine my feelings , Miss Trotwood and David in the act of making his will . 
Her daughter looked round from the window quickly . 
The foresight and affection of the dear ! I must tell you how it was . 
I really must , in justice to the darling for he is nothing less ! tell you how it was . 
And that there is not a chair in this house , in which a paper can be what I call , read , except one in the Study . 
This took me to the Study , where I saw a light . 
In company with the dear Doctor were two professional people , evidently connected with the law , and they were all three standing at the table the darling Doctor pen in hand . 
Mrs. Strong opened the window , and went out into the verandah , where she stood leaning against a pillar . 
Here the bell rang , and we heard the sound of the visitors' feet as they went out . 
'It's all over , no doubt , said the Old Soldier , after listening 'the dear creature has signed , sealed , and delivered , and his mind's at rest . 
Well it may be ! What a mind ! Annie , my love , I am going to the Study with my paper , for I am a poor creature without news . 
Miss Trotwood , David , pray come and see the Doctor . 
, I have forgotten , if I ever knew . 
That , in the same moment , we saw Mrs. Strong glide in , pale and trembling . 
That Mr. Dick supported her on his arm . 
That he laid his other hand upon the Doctor's arm , causing him to look up with an abstracted air . 
I see and hear , rather than remember , as I write about it . 
'Doctor ! said Mr. Dick . 
'What is it that's amiss ? Look here ! 'Annie ! cried the Doctor . 
'Not at my feet , my dear ! 'Yes ! she said . 
'I beg and pray that no one will leave the room ! Oh , my husband and father , break this long silence . 
'Waste no words on me , for my appeal is to my husband , and even you are nothing here . 
'Nothing ! exclaimed Mrs. Markleham . 
'Me , nothing ! The child has taken leave of her senses . 
'Annie ! said the Doctor , tenderly taking her in his hands . 
'My dear ! If any unavoidable change has come , in the sequence of time , upon our married life , you are not to blame . 
The fault is mine , and only mine . 
There is no change in my affection , admiration , and respect . 
I wish to make you happy . 
I truly love and honour you . 
Rise , Annie , pray ! But she did not rise . 
After a few moments of painful hesitation , I broke the silence . 
Strong , I said , 'there is something within my knowledge , which I have been earnestly entreated by Doctor Strong to conceal , and have concealed until tonight . 
But , I believe the time has come when it would be mistaken faith and delicacy to conceal it any longer , and when your appeal absolves me from his injunction . 
She turned her face towards me for a moment , and I knew that I was right . 
I could not have resisted its entreaty , if the assurance that it gave me had been less convincing . 
'Our future peace , she said , 'may be in your hands . 
I trust it confidently to your not suppressing anything . 
I know beforehand that nothing you , or anyone , can tell me , will show my husband's noble heart in any other light than one . 
Howsoever it may seem to you to touch me , disregard that . 
I will speak for myself , before him , and before God afterwards . 
The staring of Mrs. Markleham during the whole narration , and the shrill , sharp interjections with which she occasionally interrupted it , defy description . 
When I had finished , Annie remained , for some few moments , silent , with her head bent down , as I have described . 
, and pressed it to her breast , and kissed it . 
Mr. Dick softly raised her and she stood , when she began to speak , leaning on him , and looking down upon her husband from whom she never turned her eyes . 
'All that has ever been in my mind , since I was married , she said in a low , submissive , tender voice , 'I will lay bare before you . 
I could not live and have one reservation , knowing what I know now . 
'Nay , Annie , said the Doctor , mildly , 'I have never doubted you , my child . 
There is no need indeed there is no need , my dear . 
'I must be permitted to observe that it cannot be requisite to enter into these details . 
'No one but my husband can judge of that , mama , said Annie without removing her eyes from his face , 'and he will hear me . 
If I say anything to give you pain , mama , forgive me . 
I have borne pain first , often and long , myself . 
'Upon my word ! gasped Mrs. Markleham . 
I can remember nothing that I know , without remembering him . 
He stored my mind with its first treasures , and stamped his character upon them all . 
They never could have been , I think , as good as they have been to me , if I had taken them from any other hands . 
'Makes her mother nothing ! exclaimed Mrs. Markleham . 
'Not so mama , said Annie 'but I make him what he was . 
As I grew up , he occupied the same place still . 
I was proud of his interest deeply , fondly , gratefully attached to him . 
You know , mama , how young and inexperienced I was , when you presented him before me , of a sudden , as a lover . 
'I have mentioned the fact , fifty times at least , to everybody here ! said Mrs. Markleham . 
I was but a girl and when so great a change came in the character in which I had so long looked up to him , I think I was sorry . 
But nothing could have made him what he used to be again and I was proud that he should think me so worthy , and we were married . 
At Saint Alphage , Canterbury , observed Mrs. Markleham . 
'I never thought , proceeded Annie , with a heightened colour , 'of any worldly gain that my husband would bring to me . 
My young heart had no room in its homage for any such poor reference . 
'Me ! cried Mrs. Markleham . 
'It was the first unhappiness of my new life , said Annie . 
'It was the first occasion of every unhappy moment I have known . 
The Doctor looked on her , henceforth , as steadfastly as she on him . 
'It was at that time that mama was most solicitous about my Cousin Maldon . 
I had liked him' she spoke softly , but without any hesitation 'very much . 
We had been little lovers once . 
If circumstances had not happened otherwise , I might have come to persuade myself that I really loved him , and might have married him , and been most wretched . 
There can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose . 
I pondered on those words , even while I was studiously attending to what followed , as if they had some particular interest , or some strange application that I could not divine . 
'There can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose' 'no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose . 
'There is nothing , said Annie , 'that we have in common . 
I have long found that there is nothing . 
She stood quite still , before the Doctor , and spoke with an earnestness that thrilled me . 
Yet her voice was just as quiet as before . 
I thought that if I had been he , I would have tried to do it , at the cost of almost any hardship . 
But I thought no worse of him , until the night of his departure for India . 
That night I knew he had a false and thankless heart . 
I saw a double meaning , then , in Mr. Wickfield's scrutiny of me . 
I perceived , for the first time , the dark suspicion that shadowed my life . 
'Suspicion , Annie ! said the Doctor . 
'No , no , no ! 'In your mind there was none , I know , my husband ! she returned . 
It died upon my lips , and from that hour till now has never passed them . 
Mrs. Markleham , with a short groan , leaned back in her easy chair and retired behind her fan , as if she were never coming out any more . 
'I have never , but in your presence , interchanged a word with him from that time then , only when it has been necessary for the avoidance of this explanation . 
Years have passed since he knew , from me , what his situation here was . 
I was very young , and had no adviser . 
Between mama and me , in all relating to you , there was a wide division . 
I used to be afraid that I had better have remained your pupil , and almost your child . 
I used to fear that I was so unsuited to your learning and wisdom . 
, when I had that to tell , it was still because I honoured you so much , and hoped that you might one day honour me . 
'That day has shone this long time , Annie , said the Doctor , and can have but one long night , my dear . 
'Another word ! I afterwards meant steadfastly meant , and purposed to myself to bear the whole weight of knowing the unworthiness of one to whom you had been so good . 
Every succeeding year I have known this better , as I have esteemed you more and more . 
'That's a settler for our military friend , at any rate , said my aunt , on the way home . 
'What ! Did you ever see a crocodile overcome ? inquired my aunt . 
'I don't think I ever saw a crocodile , returned Mr. Dick , mildly . 
'There never would have been anything the matter , if it hadn't been for that old Animal , said my aunt , with strong emphasis . 
'It's very much to be wished that some mothers would leave their daughters alone after marriage , and not be so violently affectionate . 
What are you thinking of , Trot ? I was thinking of all that had been said . 
My mind was still running on some of the expressions used . 
'There can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose . 
'The first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart . 
'My love was founded on a rock . 
But we were at home and the trodden leaves were lying under foot , and the autumn wind was blowing . 
I had often passed it before , during my residence in that neighbourhood , though never when I could choose another road . 
I had never done more than glance at the house , as I went by with a quickened step . 
It had been uniformly gloomy and dull . 
I do not remember that I ever saw a light in all the house . 
If I had been a casual passer by , I should have probably supposed that some childless person lay dead in it . 
As it was , I thought as little of it as I might . 
But my mind could not go by it and leave it , as my body did and it usually awakened a long train of meditations . 
I fell into a brown study as I walked on , and a voice at my side made me start . 
It was a woman's voice , too . 
I was not long in recollecting Mrs. Steerforth's little parlour maid , who had formerly worn blue ribbons in her cap . 
She had taken them out now , to adapt herself , I suppose , to the altered character of the house and wore but one or two disconsolate bows of sober brown . 
'If you please , sir , would you have the goodness to walk in , and speak to Miss Dartle ? 'Has Miss Dartle sent you for me ? I inquired . 
'Not tonight , sir , but it's just the same . 
I turned back , and inquired of my conductor , as we went along , how Mrs. Steerforth was . 
She said her lady was but poorly , and kept her own room a good deal . 
When we arrived at the house , I was directed to Miss Dartle in the garden , and left to make my presence known to her myself . 
She was sitting on a seat at one end of a kind of terrace , overlooking the great city . 
She saw me as I advanced , and rose for a moment to receive me . 
I thought her , then , still more colourless and thin than when I had seen her last the flashing eyes still brighter , and the scar still plainer . 
Our meeting was not cordial . 
We had parted angrily on the last occasion and there was an air of disdain about her , which she took no pains to conceal . 
'If you please , said she . 
'Pray has this girl been found ? 'No . 
'And yet she has run away ! I saw her thin lips working while she looked at me , as if they were eager to load her with reproaches . 
'Run away ? I repeated . 
'Yes ! From him , she said , with a laugh . 
'If she is not found , perhaps she never will be found . 
She may be dead ! The vaunting cruelty with which she met my glance , I never saw expressed in any other face that ever I have seen . 
'To wish her dead , said I , 'may be the kindest wish that one of her own sex could bestow upon her . 
I am glad that time has softened you so much , Miss Dartle . 
She condescended to make no reply , but , turning on me with another scornful laugh , said 'The friends of this excellent and much injured young lady are friends of yours . 
You are their champion , and assert their rights . 
'You will restrain any demonstrative championship or vengeance in this place , of course , Mr. Copperfield ? said she , looking over her shoulder at me with the same expression . 
'Now , said she , imperiously , without glancing at him , and touching the old wound as it throbbed perhaps , in this instance , with pleasure rather than pain . 
'Tell Mr. Copperfield about the flight . 
James and myself , ma'am 'Don't address yourself to me ! she interrupted with a frown . 
James and myself have been abroad with the young woman , ever since she left Yarmouth under Mr. james's protection . 
We have been in a variety of places , and seen a deal of foreign country . 
We have been in France , Switzerland , Italy , in fact , almost all parts . 
James took quite uncommonly to the young woman and was more settled , for a length of time , than I have known him to be since I have been in his service . 
The young woman was very improvable , and spoke the languages and wouldn't have been known for the same country person . 
I noticed that she was much admired wherever we went . 
Miss Dartle put her hand upon her side . 
I saw him steal a glance at her , and slightly smile to himself . 
'Very much admired , indeed , the young woman was . 
What with her dress what with the air and sun what with being made so much of what with this , that , and the other her merits really attracted general notice . 
He made a short pause . 
Her eyes wandered restlessly over the distant prospect , and she bit her nether lip to stop that busy mouth . 
Mr. James he began to be restless again . 
The more restless he got , the worse she got and I must say , for myself , that I had a very difficult time of it indeed between the two . 
Still matters were patched up here , and made good there , over and over again and altogether lasted , I am sure , for a longer time than anybody could have expected . 
Recalling her eyes from the distance , she looked at me again now , with her former air . 
He changed legs again , and wetted his lips . 
I was convinced that the scoundrel spoke of himself , and I saw my conviction reflected in Miss Dartle's face . 
'This I also had it in charge to communicate . 
I was willing to do anything to relieve Mr. James from his difficulty , and to restore harmony between himself and an affectionate parent , who has undergone so much on his account . 
Therefore I undertook the commission . 
The young woman's violence when she came to , after I broke the fact of his departure , was beyond all expectations . 
Miss Dartle , leaning back upon the seat , with a light of exultation in her face , seemed almost to caress the sounds this fellow had uttered . 
A more outrageous person I never did see . 
Her conduct was surprisingly bad . 
She had no more gratitude , no more feeling , no more patience , no more reason in her , than a stock or a stone . 
If I hadn't been upon my guard , I am convinced she would have had my blood . 
'I think the better of her for it , said I , indignantly . 
Mr. Littimer bent his head , as much as to say , 'Indeed , sir ? But you're young ! and resumed his narrative . 
'She is dead , perhaps , said Miss Dartle , with a smile , as if she could have spurned the body of the ruined girl . 
'She may have drowned herself , miss , returned Mr. Littimer , catching at an excuse for addressing himself to somebody . 
Or , she may have had assistance from the boatmen , and the boatmen's wives and children . 
Being given to low company , she was very much in the habit of talking to them on the beach , Miss Dartle , and sitting by their boats . 
I have known her do it , when Mr. James has been away , whole days . 
'You spoke to me , miss , he replied . 
But it is my service to obey . 
'Do your service , she returned . 
Words passed between us in consequence , and I felt it due to my character to leave him . 
I could bear , and I have borne , a great deal from Mr. James but he insulted me too far . 
'Just so , ma'am and relating what I knew . 
I am not aware , said Mr. Littimer , after a moment's reflection , 'that there is anything else . 
I am at present out of employment , and should be happy to meet with a respectable situation . 
Miss Dartle glanced at me , as though she would inquire if there were anything that I desired to ask . 
Miss Dartle turned her head disdainfully towards him . 
'I beg your pardon , miss , he said , awakening from his abstraction , 'but , however submissive to you , I have my position , though a servant . 
Mr. Copperfield and you , miss , are different people . 
If Mr. Copperfield wishes to know anything from me , I take the liberty of reminding Mr. Copperfield that he can put a question to me . 
I have a character to maintain . 
After a momentary struggle with myself , I turned my eyes upon him , and said , 'You have heard my question . 
Consider it addressed to yourself , if you choose . 
'Is that all ? inquired Miss Dartle of me . 
I indicated that I had nothing more to say . 
He had stopped the moment I began , and had listened with his usual repose of manner . 
If they do , it is more to their own peril , I believe , than to other people's . 
Consequently speaking , I am not at all afraid of going wherever I may wish , sir . 
With that , he made a polite bow and , with another to Miss Dartle , went away through the arch in the wall of holly by which he had come . 
Miss Dartle and I regarded each other for a little while in silence her manner being exactly what it was , when she had produced the man . 
But this is of no interest to you . 
Neither is this of any interest to you but it introduces what I wish to say . 
This devil whom you make an angel of . 
If she is , you will desire to have a pearl of such price found and taken care of . 
We desire that , too that he may not by any chance be made her prey again . 
I saw , by the change in her face , that someone was advancing behind me . 
Her fine figure was far less upright , her handsome face was deeply marked , and her hair was almost white . 
'Is Mr. Copperfield informed of everything , Rosa ? 'Yes . 
'And has he heard Littimer himself ? 'Yes I have told him why you wished it . 
'You are a good girl . 
I have had some slight correspondence with your former friend , sir , addressing me , 'but it has not restored his sense of duty or natural obligation . 
Therefore I have no other object in this , than what Rosa has mentioned . 
, my son may be saved from again falling into the snares of a designing enemy , well ! She drew herself up , and sat looking straight before her , far away . 
'Madam , I said respectfully , 'I understand . 
I assure you I am in no danger of putting any strained construction on your motives . 
'Well , Rosa , well ! said Mrs. Steerforth , as the other was about to interpose , 'it is no matter . 
You are married , sir , I am told ? I answered that I had been some time married . 
'And are doing well ? I hear little in the quiet life I lead , but I understand you are beginning to be famous . 
'I have been very fortunate , I said , 'and find my name connected with some praise . 
'You have no mother ? in a softened voice . 
'It is a pity , she returned . 
'She would have been proud of you . 
Good night ! I took the hand she held out with a dignified , unbending air , and it was as calm in mine as if her breast had been at peace . 
Her pride could still its very pulses , it appeared , and draw the placid veil before her face , through which she sat looking straight before her on the far distance . 
As I moved away from them along the terrace , I could not help observing how steadily they both sat gazing on the prospect , and how it thickened and closed around them . 
Here and there , some early lamps were seen to twinkle in the distant city and in the eastern quarter of the sky the lurid light still hovered . 
I have reason to remember this , and think of it with awe for before I looked upon those two again , a stormy sea had risen to their feet . 
Reflecting on what had been thus told me , I felt it right that it should be communicated to Mr. Peggotty . 
On the following evening I went into London in quest of him . 
He was always wandering about from place to place , with his one object of recovering his niece before him but was more in London than elsewhere . 
Hither I directed my walk . 
On making inquiry for him , I learned from the people of the house that he had not gone out yet , and I should find him in his room upstairs . 
He was sitting reading by a window in which he kept a few plants . 
The room was very neat and orderly . 
I saw in a moment that it was always kept prepared for her reception , and that he never went out but he thought it possible he might bring her home . 
He had not heard my tap at the door , and only raised his eyes when I laid my hand upon his shoulder . 
'Mas'r Davy ! Thankee , sir ! thankee hearty , for this visit ! Sit ye down . 
You're kindly welcome , sir ! 'Mr . 
Peggotty , said I , taking the chair he handed me , 'don't expect much ! I have heard some news . 
'Of Em'ly ! He put his hand , in a nervous manner , on his mouth , and turned pale , as he fixed his eyes on mine . 
'It gives no clue to where she is but she is not with him . 
He sat down , looking intently at me , and listened in profound silence to all I had to tell . 
He offered no interruption , but remained throughout perfectly still . 
He seemed to pursue her figure through the narrative , and to let every other shape go by him , as if it were nothing . 
When I had done , he shaded his face , and continued silent . 
I looked out of the window for a little while , and occupied myself with the plants . 
'How do you fare to feel about it , Mas'r Davy ? he inquired at length . 
'I think that she is living , I replied . 
Maybe the first shock was too rough , and in the wildness of her art ! That there blue water as she used to speak on . 
No ! Em'ly's alive ! He put his hand down firmly on the table , and set his sunburnt face into a resolute expression . 
'My niece , Em'ly , is alive , sir ! he said , steadfastly . 
'I doen't know wheer it comes from , or how 'tis , but I am told as she's alive ! He looked almost like a man inspired , as he said it . 
'Now , my dear friend 'I began . 
'Thankee , thankee , kind sir , he said , grasping my hand in both of his . 
'If she had left of her own accord , she might not as It was , sir . 
'If she should come here , said I , 'I believe there is one person , here , more likely to discover her than any other in the world . 
Do you remember hear what I say , with fortitude think of your great object ! do you remember Martha ? 'Of our town ? I needed no other answer than his face . 
'Do you know that she is in London ? 'I have seen her in the streets , he answered , with a shiver . 
'But you don't know , said I , 'that Emily was charitable to her , with Ham's help , long before she fled from home . 
Nor , that , when we met one night , and spoke together in the room yonder , over the way , she listened at the door . 
'Mas'r Davy ! he replied in astonishment . 
'That night when it snew so hard ? 'That night . 
I have never seen her since . 
I went back , after parting from you , to speak to her , but she was gone . 
I was unwilling to mention her to you then , and I am now but she is the person of whom I speak , and with whom I think we should communicate . 
Do you understand ? 'Too well , sir , he replied . 
We had sunk our voices , almost to a whisper , and continued to speak in that tone . 
'You say you have seen her . 
Do you think that you could find her ? I could only hope to do so by chance . 
'I think , Mas'r Davy , I know wheer to look . 
Being together , shall we go out now , and try to find her tonight ? He assented , and prepared to accompany me . 
, neatly folded with some other garments , and a bonnet , which he placed upon a chair . 
He made no allusion to these clothes , neither did I. There they had been waiting for her , many and many a night , no doubt . 
'The time was , Mas'r Davy , he said , as we came downstairs , 'when I thowt this girl , Martha , a'most like the dirt underneath my Em'ly's feet . 
God forgive me , theer's a difference now ! As we went along , partly to hold him in conversation , and partly to satisfy myself , I asked him about Ham . 
'I have thowt of it oftentimes , but I can't awize myself of it , no matters . 
I recalled to his remembrance the morning after her departure , when we were all three on the beach . 
'Do you recollect , said I , 'a certain wild way in which he looked out to sea , and spoke about the end of it ? 'Sure I do ! said he . 
'What do you suppose he meant ? 'Mas'r Davy , he replied , 'I've put the question to myself a mort o' times , and never found no answer . 
And theer's one curious thing that , though he is so pleasant , I wouldn't fare to feel comfortable to try and get his mind upon 't . 
It's deep , sir , and I can't see down . 
'You are right , said I , 'and that has sometimes made me anxious . 
'And me too , Mas'r Davy , he rejoined . 
'Even more so , I do assure you , than his ventersome ways , though both belongs to the alteration in him . 
I doen't know as he'd do violence under any circumstances , but I hope as them two may be kep asunders . 
We had come , through Temple Bar , into the city . 
We were not far from Blackfriars Bridge , when he turned his head and pointed to a solitary female figure flitting along the opposite side of the street . 
I knew it , readily , to be the figure that we sought . 
He acquiescing , we followed at a distance never losing sight of her , but never caring to come very near , as she frequently looked about . 
Once , she stopped to listen to a band of music and then we stopped too . 
She went on a long way . 
CHAPTER MARTHA We were now down in Westminster . 
We had turned back to follow her , having encountered her coming towards us and Westminster Abbey was the point at which she passed from the lights and noise of the leading streets . 
At that moment she crossed the road , as if to avoid the footsteps that she heard so close behind and , without looking back , passed on even more rapidly . 
A glimpse of the river through a dull gateway , where some waggons were housed for the night , seemed to arrest my feet . 
There was , and is when I write , at the end of that low lying street , a dilapidated little wooden building , probably an obsolete old ferry house . 
Its position is just at that point where the street ceases , and the road begins to lie between a row of houses and the river . 
But that one dark glimpse of the river , through the gateway , had instinctively prepared me for her going no farther . 
The neighbourhood was a dreary one at that time as oppressive , sad , and solitary by night , as any about London . 
There were neither wharves nor houses on the melancholy waste of road near the great blank Prison . 
A sluggish ditch deposited its mud at the prison walls . 
Coarse grass and rank weeds straggled over all the marshy land in the vicinity . 
In one part , carcases of houses , inauspiciously begun and never finished , rotted away . 
The clash and glare of sundry fiery Works upon the river side , arose by night to disturb everything except the heavy and unbroken smoke that poured out of their chimneys . 
Or else it looked as if it had gradually decomposed into that nightmare condition , out of the overflowings of the polluted stream . 
There were some boats and barges astrand in the mud , and these enabled us to come within a few yards of her without being seen . 
I then signed to Mr. Peggotty to remain where he was , and emerged from their shade to speak to her . 
I think she was talking to herself . 
At the same moment I said 'Martha ! She uttered a terrified scream , and struggled with me with such strength that I doubt if I could have held her alone . 
We carried her away from the water to where there were some dry stones , and there laid her down , crying and moaning . 
In a little while she sat among the stones , holding her wretched head with both her hands . 
'Oh , the river ! she cried passionately . 
'Oh , the river ! 'Hush , hush ! said I. 'Calm yourself . 
But she still repeated the same words , continually exclaiming , 'Oh , the river ! over and over again . 
'I know it's like me ! she exclaimed . 
'I know that I belong to it . 
'I can't keep away from it . 
It haunts me day and night . 
It's the only thing in all the world that I am fit for , or that's fit for me . 
I never saw , in any painting or reality , horror and compassion so impressively blended . 
He shook as if he would have fallen and his hand I touched it with my own , for his appearance alarmed me was deadly cold . 
'She is in a state of frenzy , I whispered to him . 
'She will speak differently in a little time . 
I don't know what he would have said in answer . 
He made some motion with his mouth , and seemed to think he had spoken but he had only pointed to her with his outstretched hand . 
'Do you know who this is , who is with me ? She said faintly , 'Yes . 
'Do you know that we have followed you a long way tonight ? She shook her head . 
'I want to say nothing for myself , she said , after a few moments . 
'I am bad , I am lost . 
I have no hope at all . 
'It has never been attributed to you , I returned , earnestly responding to her earnestness . 
'You are innocent of any part in it , we thoroughly believe , we know . 
'To have died , would not have been much what can I say ? I would have lived ! she cried . 
'What shall I ever do ! she said , fighting thus with her despair . 
'How can I go on as I am , a solitary curse to myself , a living disgrace to everyone I come near ! Suddenly she turned to my companion . 
'Stamp upon me , kill me ! When she was your pride , you would have thought I had done her harm if I had brushed against her in the street . 
You can't believe why should you ? a syllable that comes out of my lips . 
It would be a burning shame upon you , even now , if she and I exchanged a word . 
I don't say she and I are alike I know there is a long , long way between us . 
I only say , with all my guilt and wretchedness upon my head , that I am grateful to her from my soul , and love her . 
Oh , don't think that all the power I had of loving anything is quite worn out ! Throw me away , as all the world does . 
'Martha , said Mr. Peggotty , 'God forbid as I should judge you . 
Well ! he paused a moment , then went on . 
'You doen't understand how 'tis that this here gentleman and me has wished to speak to you . 
You doen't understand what 'tis we has afore us . 
Listen now ! His influence upon her was complete . 
She stood , shrinkingly , before him , as if she were afraid to meet his eyes but her passionate sorrow was quite hushed and mute . 
My dear niece , he repeated steadily . 
'Fur she's more dear to me now , Martha , than she was dear afore . 
She put her hands before her face but otherwise remained quiet . 
As she was silently trembling , he put her shawl carefully about her , taking it up from the ground for that purpose . 
I read , in every word of his plain impressive way of delivering himself , new evidence of his having thought of this one topic , in every feature it presented . 
'According to our reckoning , he proceeded , 'Mas'r Davy's here , and mine , she is like , one day , to make her own poor solitary course to London . 
We believe Mas'r Davy , me , and all of us that you are as innocent of everything that has befell her , as the unborn child . 
You've spoke of her being pleasant , kind , and gentle to you . 
Bless her , I knew she was ! I knew she always was , to all . 
You're thankful to her , and you love her . 
'Will you trust me ? she asked , in a low voice of astonishment . 
'Full and free ! said Mr. Peggotty . 
We both replied together , 'Yes ! She lifted up her eyes , and solemnly declared that she would devote herself to this task , fervently and faithfully . 
That she would never waver in it , never be diverted from it , never relinquish it , while there was any chance of hope . 
We judged it expedient , now , to tell her all we knew which I recounted at length . 
She listened with great attention , and with a face that often changed , but had the same purpose in all its varying expressions . 
Her eyes occasionally filled with tears , but those she repressed . 
It seemed as if her spirit were quite altered , and she could not be too quiet . 
She asked , when all was told , where we were to be communicated with , if occasion should arise . 
I asked her where she lived herself . 
She said , after a pause , in no place long . 
It were better not to know . 
In this particular , his influence upon her was equally powerless with mine . 
She gratefully thanked him but remained inexorable . 
'There may be work to be got , she said . 
'At least take some assistance , I returned , 'until you have tried . 
'I could not do what I have promised , for money , she replied . 
'I could not take it , if I was starving . 
I am afraid to think so it seems too bold . 
If any good should come of me , I might begin to hope for nothing but harm has ever come of my deeds yet . 
I am to be trusted , for the first time in a long while , with my miserable life , on account of what you have given me to try for . 
I know no more , and I can say no more . 
She had been ill , probably for a long time . 
I observed , upon that closer opportunity of observation , that she was worn and haggard , and that her sunken eyes expressed privation and endurance . 
We followed her at a short distance , our way lying in the same direction , until we came back into the lighted and populous streets . 
He being of the same mind , and equally reliant on her , we suffered her to take her own road , and took ours , which was towards Highgate . 
It was midnight when I arrived at home . 
I had reached my own gate , and was standing listening for the deep bell of St . 
It was with very great surprise that I saw a man standing in her little garden . 
He had a glass and bottle in his hand , and was in the act of drinking . 
He was eating as well as drinking , and seemed to eat with a hungry appetite . 
He seemed curious regarding the cottage , too , as if it were the first time he had seen it . 
The light in the passage was obscured for a moment , and my aunt came out . 
She was agitated , and told some money into his hand . 
'What's the use of this ? he demanded . 
'I can spare no more , returned my aunt . 
'Then I can't go , said he . 
'You ask me why ! returned my aunt . 
'You know I have had losses , and am poorer than I used to be . 
I have told you so . 
'I lead the life of an owl . 
'You stripped me of the greater part of all I ever had , said my aunt . 
'You closed my heart against the whole world , years and years . 
You treated me falsely , ungratefully , and cruelly . 
Go , and repent of it . 
Don't add new injuries to the long , long list of injuries you have done me ! 'Aye ! he returned . 
'It's all very fine Well ! I must do the best I can , for the present , I suppose . 
In spite of himself , he appeared abashed by my aunt's indignant tears , and came slouching out of the garden . 
Taking two or three quick steps , as if I had just come up , I met him at the gate , and went in as he came out . 
We eyed one another narrowly in passing , and with no favour . 
'Aunt , said I , hurriedly . 
'This man alarming you again ! Let me speak to him . 
Who is he ? 'Child , returned my aunt , taking my arm , 'come in , and don't speak to me for ten minutes . 
We sat down in her little parlour . 
Then she came out , and took a seat beside me . 
'Trot , said my aunt , calmly , 'it's my husband . 
'Your husband , aunt ? I thought he had been dead ! 'Dead to me , returned my aunt , 'but living . 
I sat in silent amazement . 
'Betsey Trotwood don't look a likely subject for the tender passion , said my aunt , composedly , 'but the time was , Trot , when she believed in that man most entirely . 
When she loved him , Trot , right well . 
When there was no proof of attachment and affection that she would not have given him . 
He repaid her by breaking her fortune , and nearly breaking her heart . 
So she put all that sort of sentiment , once and for ever , in a grave , and filled it up , and flattened it down . 
'My dear , good aunt ! 'I left him , my aunt proceeded , laying her hand as usual on the back of mine , 'generously . 
I may say at this distance of time , Trot , that I left him generously . 
He had been so cruel to me , that I might have effected a separation on easy terms for myself but I did not . 
What he is now , you see . 
'He is nothing to me now , Trot less than nothing . 
, I give him more money than I can afford , at intervals when he reappears , to go away . 
For I was in earnest , Trot , if ever a woman was . 
MY aunt dismissed the matter with a heavy sigh , and smoothed her dress . 
'There , my dear ! she said . 
'Now you know the beginning , middle , and end , and all about it . 
We won't mention the subject to one another any more neither , of course , will you mention it to anybody else . 
For this reason , I retained my modesty in very self respect and the more praise I got , the more I tried to deserve . 
It is not my purpose , in this record , though in all other essentials it is my written memory , to pursue the history of my own fictions . 
They express themselves , and I leave them to themselves . 
When I refer to them , incidentally , it is only as a part of my progress . 
Having some foundation for believing , by this time , that nature and accident had made me an author , I pursued my vocation with confidence . 
Without such assurance I should certainly have left it alone , and bestowed my energy on some other endeavour . 
I should have tried to find out what nature and accident really had made me , and to be that , and nothing else . 
I had been writing , in the newspaper and elsewhere , so prosperously , that when my new success was achieved , I considered myself reasonably entitled to escape from the dreary debates . 
, all the livelong session . 
I now write of the time when I had been married , I suppose , about a year and a half . 
After several varieties of experiment , we had given up the housekeeping as a bad job . 
The house kept itself , and we kept a page . 
He appears to me to have lived in a hail of saucepan lids . 
His whole existence was a scuffle . 
We wanted to get rid of him , but he was very much attached to us , and wouldn't go . 
He was a tearful boy , and broke into such deplorable lamentations , when a cessation of our connexion was hinted at , that we were obliged to keep him . 
This unlucky page , engaged in an evil hour at six pounds ten per annum , was a source of continual trouble to me . 
I saw no prospect of ever getting rid of him and , projecting myself into the future , used to think what an inconvenience he would be when he was an old man . 
I never expected anything less , than this unfortunate's manner of getting me out of my difficulty . 
in incessantly riding up and down between London and Uxbridge outside the coach . 
The surprise and its consequences would have been much less disagreeable to me if he had not been penitent . 
But he was very penitent indeed , and in a peculiar way not in the lump , but by instalments . 
a shepherd of , 'up the country' somewhere I have no geographical idea where . 
'You have been silent for a long time , and now you are going to be cross ! said Dora . 
'No , my dear , indeed ! Let me explain to you what I mean . 
'I think I don't want to know , said Dora . 
'But I want you to know , my love . 
'The fact is , my dear , I began , 'there is contagion in us . 
We infect everyone about us . 
Therefore I checked myself , and made my meaning plainer . 
I begin to be afraid that the fault is not entirely on one side , but that these people all turn out ill because we don't turn out very well ourselves . 
You said I hadn't turned out well , and compared me to him . 
'To whom ? I asked . 
'To the page , sobbed Dora . 
In the first place , it's not true . 
'You always said he was a story teller , sobbed Dora . 
My dear Dora , unless we learn to do our duty to those whom we employ , they will never learn to do their duty to us . 
I am afraid we present opportunities to people to do wrong , that never ought to be presented . 
We are positively corrupting people . 
We are bound to think of that . 
I can't help thinking of it , Dora . 
It is a reflection I am unable to dismiss , and it sometimes makes me very uneasy . 
There , dear , that's all . 
Don't be foolish ! Dora would not allow me , for a long time , to remove the handkerchief . 
When Dora was very childish , and I would have infinitely preferred to humour her , I tried to be grave and disconcerted her , and myself too . 
I talked to her on the subjects which occupied my thoughts and I read Shakespeare to her and fatigued her to the last degree . 
In particular , it was clear to me , that she thought Shakespeare a terrible fellow . 
The formation went on very slowly . 
I pressed Traddles into the service without his knowledge and whenever he came to see us , exploded my mines upon him for the edification of Dora at second hand . 
If there must be such a shadow anywhere , I would keep it for the future in my own breast . 
Which I sincerely felt , and which indeed it was . 
'The truth is , Dora , my life , I said 'I have been trying to be wise . 
'And to make me wise too , said Dora , timidly . 
'Haven't you , Doady ? I nodded assent to the pretty inquiry of the raised eyebrows , and kissed the parted lips . 
'It's of not a bit of use , said Dora , shaking her head , until the ear rings rang again . 
'You know what a little thing I am , and what I wanted you to call me from the first . 
If you can't do so , I am afraid you'll never like me . 
Are you sure you don't think , sometimes , it would have been better to have 'Done what , my dear ? For she made no effort to proceed . 
'Don't I think it would have been better to have done nothing , than to have tried to form my little wife's mind ? said I , laughing at myself . 
'Is that the question ? Yes , indeed , I do . 
'Is that what you have been trying ? cried Dora . 
'Oh what a shocking boy ! 'But I shall never try any more , said I. 'For I love her dearly as she is . 
'Without a story really ? inquired Dora , creeping closer to me . 
'And be happy ! returned Dora . 
'Yes ! All day ! And you won't mind things going a tiny morsel wrong , sometimes ? 'No , no , said I. 'We must do the best we can . 
'Better to be naturally Dora than anything else in the world . 
So ended my last attempt to make any change in Dora . 
I had been unhappy in trying it I could not endure my own solitary wisdom I could not reconcile it with her former appeal to me as my child wife . 
It was deepened , if it were changed at all but it was as undefined as ever , and addressed me like a strain of sorrowful music faintly heard in the night . 
I loved my wife dearly , and I was happy but the happiness I had vaguely anticipated , once , was not the happiness I enjoyed , and there was always something wanting . 
In fulfilment of the compact I have made with myself , to reflect my mind on this paper , I again examine it , closely , and bring its secrets to the light . 
What I am describing , slumbered , and half awoke , and slept again , in the innermost recesses of my mind . 
There was no evidence of it in me I know of no influence it had in anything I said or did . 
I bore the weight of all our little cares , and all my projects Dora held the pens and we both felt that our shares were adjusted as the case required . 
'The first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart . 
Those words of Mrs. Strong's were constantly recurring to me , at this time were almost always present to my mind . 
I awoke with them , often , in the night I remember to have even read them , in dreams , inscribed upon the walls of houses . 
'There can be no disparity in marriage , like unsuitability of mind and purpose . 
Those words I remembered too . 
I had endeavoured to adapt Dora to myself , and found it impracticable . 
This was the discipline to which I tried to bring my heart , when I began to think . 
It made my second year much happier than my first and , what was better still , made Dora's life all sunshine . 
But , as that year wore on , Dora was not strong . 
I had hoped that lighter hands than mine would help to mould her character , and that a baby smile upon her breast might change my child wife to a woman . 
It was not to be . 
The spirit fluttered for a moment on the threshold of its little prison , and , unconscious of captivity , took wing . 
'When I can run about again , as I used to do , aunt , said Dora , 'I shall make Jip race . 
He is getting quite slow and lazy . 
'I suspect , my dear , said my aunt quietly working by her side , 'he has a worse disorder than that . 
'Do you think he is old ? said Dora , astonished . 
'He must have a piece of flannel in his house this winter , and I shouldn't wonder if he came out quite fresh again , with the flowers in the spring . 
The more my aunt looked at him , the more he reproached her for she had lately taken to spectacles , and for some inscrutable reason he considered the glasses personal . 
He has a good many years before him , no doubt . 
But if you want a dog to race with , Little Blossom , he has lived too well for that , and I'll give you one . 
'Thank you , aunt , said Dora , faintly . 
'But don't , please ! 'No ? said my aunt , taking off her spectacles . 
'I couldn't have any other dog but Jip , said Dora . 
I couldn't care for any other dog but Jip , I am afraid , aunt . 
'To be sure ! said my aunt , patting her cheek again . 
'You are not offended , said Dora . 
'Are you ? 'Why , what a sensitive pet it is ! cried my aunt , bending over her affectionately . 
'You are not so old , Jip , are you , that you'll leave your mistress yet ? said Dora . 
, we thought she would be 'running about as she used to do' , in a few days . 
But they said , wait a few days more and then , wait a few days more and still she neither ran nor walked . 
She looked very pretty , and was very merry but the little feet that used to be so nimble when they danced round Jip , were dull and motionless . 
I began to carry her downstairs every morning , and upstairs every night . 
She would clasp me round the neck and laugh , the while , as if I did it for a wager . 
Jip would bark and caper round us , and go on before , and look back on the landing , breathing short , to see that we were coming . 
My aunt , the best and most cheerful of nurses , would trudge after us , a moving mass of shawls and pillows . 
Mr. Dick would not have relinquished his post of candle bearer to anyone alive . 
Traddles would be often at the bottom of the staircase , looking on , and taking charge of sportive messages from Dora to the dearest girl in the world . 
We made quite a gay procession of it , and my child wife was the gayest there . 
, with sentiments of personal esteem amounting to affection . 
, who now takes up the pen to address you it is not , I repeat , for one so circumstanced , to adopt the language of compliment , or of congratulation . 
That he leaves to abler and to purer hands . 
The canker is in the flower . 
The cup is bitter to the brim . 
The worm is at his work , and will soon dispose of his victim . 
But I will not digress . 
Among other havens of domestic tranquillity and peace of mind , my feet will naturally tend towards the King's Bench Prison . 
our past relations of the olden time . 
S. It may be advisable to superadd to the above , the statement that Mrs. Micawber is not in confidential possession of my intentions . 
I read the letter over several times . 
'My dear fellow , said I , 'I never was better pleased to see you . 
You come to give me the benefit of your sober judgement at a most opportune time . 
I have received a very singular letter , Traddles , from Mr. Micawber . 
from his wife and family , is the cause of my addressing my unhappy appeal to Mr. Traddles , and soliciting his best indulgence . 
Mr. T. can form no adequate idea of the change in Mr. Micawber's conduct , of his wildness , of his violence . 
It has gradually augmented , until it assumes the appearance of aberration of intellect . 
Scarcely a day passes , I assure Mr. Traddles , on which some paroxysm does not take place . 
The slightest provocation , even being asked if there is anything he would prefer for dinner , causes him to express a wish for a separation . 
Without them , Mr. T. would indeed find it difficult to form the faintest conception of my heart rending situation . 
Mr. Micawber is going to London . 
The West End destination of the coach , is the Golden Cross . 
Thomas Traddles's respectful friend and suppliant , 'EMMA MICAWBER . 
'What do you think of that letter ? said Traddles , casting his eyes upon me , when I had read it twice . 
'What do you think of the other ? said I. For he was still reading it with knitted brows . 
'I think that the two together , Copperfield , replied Traddles , 'mean more than Mr. and Mrs. Micawber usually mean in their correspondence but I don't know what . 
They are both written in good faith , I have no doubt , and without any collusion . 
I acceded to this the more readily , because I now reproached myself with having treated her former letter rather lightly . 
However , I now wrote a comforting letter to Mrs. Micawber , in our joint names , and we both signed it . 
As we walked into town to post it , Traddles and I held a long conference , and launched into a number of speculations , which I need not repeat . 
We took my aunt into our counsels in the afternoon but our only decided conclusion was , that we would be very punctual in keeping Mr. Micawber's appointment . 
Although we appeared at the stipulated place a quarter of an hour before the time , we found Mr. Micawber already there . 
When we accosted him , his manner was something more confused , and something less genteel , than of yore . 
He had relinquished his legal suit of black for the purposes of this excursion , and wore the old surtout and tights , but not quite with the old air . 
'Gentlemen ! said Mr. Micawber , after the first salutations , 'you are friends in need , and friends indeed . 
We acknowledged his politeness , and made suitable replies . 
'My dear Copperfield , he returned , pressing my hand , 'your cordiality overpowers me . 
This reception of a shattered fragment of the Temple once called Man if I may be permitted so to express myself bespeaks a heart that is an honour to our common nature . 
I was about to observe that I again behold the serene spot where some of the happiest hours of my existence fleeted by . 
I have been familiar with every stone in the place . 
If I betray weakness , you will know how to excuse me . 
'We have all got on in life since then , Mr. Micawber , said I. 'Mr . 
Such is the Bench in my chequered career . 
'Oh , you are in low spirits , Mr. Micawber , said Traddles . 
'I am , sir , interposed Mr. Micawber . 
'I hope , said Traddles , 'it is not because you have conceived a dislike to the law for I am a lawyer myself , you know . 
Mr. Micawber answered not a word . 
'How is our friend Heep , Mr. Micawber ? said I , after a silence . 
You will allow me , as a private individual , to decline pursuing a subject which has lashed me to the utmost verge of desperation in my professional capacity . 
I expressed my regret for having innocently touched upon a theme that roused him so much . 
My dear Copperfield , she is the only starry spot in a miserable existence . 
If I looked as gravely at him as Traddles did , he must have found our company by no means inspiriting . 
My homage to Miss Wickfield , is a flight of arrows in my bosom . 
You had better leave me , if you please , to walk the earth as a vagabond . 
The worm will settle my business in double quick time . 
'You shall make us a glass of your own punch , Mr. Micawber , said I , 'and forget whatever you have on your mind , in pleasanter reminiscences . 
'Or , if confiding anything to friends will be more likely to relieve you , you shall impart it to us , Mr. Micawber , said Traddles , prudently . 
We walked on , arm in arm , again found the coach in the act of starting and arrived at Highgate without encountering any difficulties by the way . 
I was very uneasy and very uncertain in my mind what to say or do for the best so was Traddles , evidently . 
Mr. Micawber was for the most part plunged into deep gloom . 
We went to my aunt's house rather than to mine , because of Dora's not being well . 
My aunt presented herself on being sent for , and welcomed Mr. Micawber with gracious cordiality . 
Mr. Micawber kissed her hand , retired to the window , and pulling out his pocket handkerchief , had a mental wrestle with himself . 
Mr. Dick was at home . 
To a man who is struggling with a complicated burden of perplexity and disquiet , such a reception is trying , I assure you . 
'My friend Mr. Dick , replied my aunt proudly , 'is not a common man . 
'That I am convinced of , said Mr. Micawber . 
'Indifferent , my dear sir , returned Mr. Micawber , sighing . 
'You must keep up your spirits , said Mr. Dick , 'and make yourself as comfortable as possible . 
Mr. Micawber was quite overcome by these friendly words , and by finding Mr. Dick's hand again within his own . 
'You are a very old friend of my nephew's , Mr. Micawber , said my aunt . 
'I wish I had had the pleasure of seeing you before . 
'Madam , returned Mr. Micawber , 'I wish I had had the honour of knowing you at an earlier period . 
I was not always the wreck you at present behold . 
'I hope Mrs. Micawber and your family are well , sir , said my aunt . 
Mr. Micawber inclined his head . 
'They are as well , ma'am , he desperately observed after a pause , 'as Aliens and Outcasts can ever hope to be . 
'Lord bless you , sir ! exclaimed my aunt , in her abrupt way . 
'What are you talking about ? 'The subsistence of my family , ma'am , returned Mr. Micawber , 'trembles in the balance . 
'Your employer , you know , said Mr. Dick , jogging his arm as a gentle reminder . 
'My good sir , returned Mr. Micawber , 'you recall me , I am obliged to you . 
My aunt leaned her elbow on the little round table that she usually kept beside her , and eyed him attentively . 
I saw that a crisis was at hand , and it came . 
He clattered all his means and implements together , rose from his chair , pulled out his pocket handkerchief , and burst into tears . 
'My dear Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , behind his handkerchief , 'this is an occupation , of all others , requiring an untroubled mind , and self respect . 
It is out of the question . 
Micawber , said I , 'what is the matter ? Pray speak out . 
'Among friends , sir ! repeated Mr. Micawber and all he had reserved came breaking out of him . 
'Good heavens , it is principally because I AM among friends that my state of mind is what it is . 
'I will lead this life no longer . 
I am a wretched being , cut off from everything that makes life tolerable . 
I have been under a Taboo in that infernal scoundrel's service . 
With an appetite ! I never saw a man so hot in my life . 
I tried to calm him , that we might come to something rational but he got hotter and hotter , and wouldn't hear a word . 
I would have gone to his assistance , but he waved me off , and wouldn't hear a word . 
'MY DEAR SIR , 'I beg to be allowed to convey , through you , my apologies to your excellent aunt for my late excitement . 
An explosion of a smouldering volcano long suppressed , was the result of an internal contest more easily conceived than described . 
'The duty done , and act of reparation performed , which can alone enable me to contemplate my fellow mortal , I shall be known no more . 
CHAPTER Mr. PEGGOTTY'S DREAM COMES TRUE By this time , some months had passed since our interview on the bank of the river with Martha . 
I had never seen her since , but she had communicated with Mr. Peggotty on several occasions . 
Nothing had come of her zealous intervention nor could I infer , from what he told me , that any clue had been obtained , for a moment , to Emily's fate . 
I confess that I began to despair of her recovery , and gradually to sink deeper and deeper into the belief that she was dead . 
So far as I know and I believe his honest heart was transparent to me he never wavered again , in his solemn certainty of finding her . 
His was not a lazy trustfulness that hoped , and did no more . 
He made his way by sea to Naples , and back , after hearing the narrative to which Miss Dartle had assisted me . 
All his journeys were ruggedly performed for he was always steadfast in a purpose of saving money for Emily's sake , when she should be found . 
In all this long pursuit , I never heard him repine I never heard him say he was fatigued , or out of heart . 
Dora had often seen him since our marriage , and was quite fond of him . 
'Did she tell you why ? I inquired . 
'I asked her , Mas'r Davy , he replied , 'but it is but few words as she ever says , and she on'y got my promise and so went away . 
'Did she say when you might expect to see her again ? I demanded . 
'No , Mas'r Davy , he returned , drawing his hand thoughtfully down his face . 
As I had long forborne to encourage him with hopes that hung on threads , I made no other comment on this information than that I supposed he would see her soon . 
Such speculations as it engendered within me I kept to myself , and those were faint enough . 
I was walking alone in the garden , one evening , about a fortnight afterwards . 
I remember that evening well . 
It was the second in Mr. Micawber's week of suspense . 
There had been rain all day , and there was a damp feeling in the air . 
The leaves were thick upon the trees , and heavy with wet but the rain had ceased , though the sky was still dark and the hopeful birds were singing cheerfully . 
I happened to turn my eyes towards this place , as I was thinking of many things and I saw a figure beyond , dressed in a plain cloak . 
It was bending eagerly towards me , and beckoning . 
'Martha ! said I , going to it . 
'Can you come with me ? she inquired , in an agitated whisper . 
'I have been to him , and he is not at home . 
I wrote down where he was to come , and left it on his table with my own hand . 
They said he would not be out long . 
I have tidings for him . 
Can you come directly ? My answer was , to pass out at the gate immediately . 
Now much disturbed , and dazzled with conflicting gleams of hope and dread , I looked at her for some explanation . 
We proceeded without a word being spoken . 
Sometimes she glanced out of the window , as though she thought we were going slowly , though indeed we were going fast but otherwise remained exactly as at first . 
We alighted at one of the entrances to the Square she had mentioned , where I directed the coach to wait , not knowing but that we might have some occasion for it . 
The house swarmed with inmates . 
As we went up , doors of rooms were opened and people's heads put out and we passed other people on the stairs , who were coming down . 
It was a broad panelled staircase , with massive balustrades of some dark wood cornices above the doors , ornamented with carved fruit and flowers and broad seats in the windows . 
But all these tokens of past grandeur were miserably decayed and dirty rot , damp , and age , had weakened the flooring , which in many places was unsound and even unsafe . 
Several of the back windows on the staircase had been darkened or wholly blocked up . 
We proceeded to the top storey of the house . 
Two or three times , by the way , I thought I observed in the indistinct light the skirts of a female figure going up before us . 
As we turned to ascend the last flight of stairs between us and the roof , we caught a full view of this figure pausing for a moment , at a door . 
Then it turned the handle , and went in . 
'What's this ! said Martha , in a whisper . 
'She has gone into my room . 
I don't know her ! I knew her . 
I had recognized her with amazement , for Miss Dartle . 
Between this , and the room she had called hers , there was a small door of communication , standing partly open . 
Here we stopped , breathless with our ascent , and she placed her hand lightly on my lips . 
I could not see Miss Dartle , or the person whom we had heard her address . 
Certainly , my companion could not , for my position was the best . 
A dead silence prevailed for some moments . 
Martha kept one hand on my lips , and raised the other in a listening attitude . 
'It matters little to me her not being at home , said Rosa Dartle haughtily , 'I know nothing of her . 
It is you I come to see . 
'Me ? replied a soft voice . 
At the sound of it , a thrill went through my frame . 
For it was Emily's ! 'Yes , returned Miss Dartle , 'I have come to look at you . 
I saw the flashing black eyes , and the passion wasted figure and I saw the scar , with its white track cutting through her lips , quivering and throbbing as she spoke . 
I want to know what such a thing is like . 
There was a rustle , as if the unhappy girl , on whom she heaped these taunts , ran towards the door , and the speaker swiftly interposed herself before it . 
It was succeeded by a moment's pause . 
When Miss Dartle spoke again , it was through her set teeth , and with a stamp upon the ground . 
I did not know what to do . 
Would he never come ? I thought impatiently . 
Being now between me and the light , I could see her curled lip , and her cruel eyes intently fixed on one place , with a greedy triumph . 
'Listen to what I say ! she said 'and reserve your false arts for your dupes . 
Do you hope to move me by your tears ? No more than you could charm me by your smiles , you purchased slave . 
'Oh , have some mercy on me ! cried Emily . 
'Show me some compassion , or I shall die mad ! 'It would be no great penance , said Rosa Dartle , 'for your crimes . 
Rosa Dartle sat looking down upon her , as inflexible as a figure of brass . 
I saw her , distinctly , and the whole power of her face and character seemed forced into that expression . 
'Oh , not that ! cried Emily . 
If you live in his home and know him , you know , perhaps , what his power with a weak , vain girl might be . 
The blow , which had no aim , fell upon the air . 
'YOU love him ? You ? she cried , with her clenched hand , quivering as if it only wanted a weapon to stab the object of her wrath . 
Emily had shrunk out of my view . 
And so she would , I have no doubt . 
I would not have trusted her with the rack itself , while that furious look lasted . 
She slowly , very slowly , broke into a laugh , and pointed at Emily with her hand , as if she were a sight of shame for gods and men . 
'SHE love ! she said . 
'THAT carrion ! And he ever cared for her , she'd tell me . 
Ha , ha ! The liars that these traders are ! Her mockery was worse than her undisguised rage . 
Of the two , I would have much preferred to be the object of the latter . 
But , when she suffered it to break loose , it was only for a moment . 
She had chained it up again , and however it might tear her within , she subdued it to herself . 
'I came here , you pure fountain of love , she said , 'to see as I began by telling you what such a thing as you was like . 
Attend to it for what I say I'll do . 
'Hide yourself , she pursued , 'if not at home , somewhere . 
Let it be somewhere beyond reach in some obscure life or , better still , in some obscure death . 
I wonder , if your loving heart will not break , you have found no way of helping it to be still ! I have heard of such means sometimes . 
I believe they may be easily found . 
A low crying , on the part of Emily , interrupted her here . 
She stopped , and listened to it as if it were music . 
'I am of a strange nature , perhaps , Rosa Dartle went on 'but I can't breathe freely in the air you breathe . 
Therefore , I will have it cleared I will have it purified of you . 
If you live here tomorrow , I'll have your story and your character proclaimed on the common stair . 
There are decent women in the house , I am told and it is a pity such a light as you should be among them , and concealed . 
, the same service shall be done you , if I hear of your retreat . 
Being assisted by a gentleman who not long ago aspired to the favour of your hand , I am sanguine as to that . 
'What , what , shall I do ! 'Do ? returned the other . 
I knew it , I was certain . 
It was his , thank God ! She moved slowly from before the door when she said this , and passed out of my sight . 
I paused a moment , and looking in , saw him supporting her insensible figure in his arms . 
He gazed for a few seconds in the face then stooped to kiss it oh , how tenderly ! and drew a handkerchief before it . 
, I was told that Mr. Peggotty desired to speak with me . 
I had been telling her all that had happened overnight . 
Without saying a word , she walked up with a cordial face , shook hands with him , and patted him on the arm . 
It was so expressively done , that she had no need to say a word . 
Mr. Peggotty understood her quite as well as if she had said a thousand . 
'I'll go in now , Trot , said my aunt , 'and look after Little Blossom , who will be getting up presently . 
'Not along of my being heer , ma'am , I hope ? said Mr. Peggotty . 
'By your leave , ma'am , returned Mr. Peggotty , 'I should take it kind , pervising you doen't mind my clicketten , if you'd bide heer . 
'Would you ? said my aunt , with short good nature . 
There was a seat for Mr. Peggotty too , but he preferred to stand , leaning his hand on the small rustic table . 
He drew his sleeve across his face , without any pretence of concealing why and then cleared his voice . 
'It warn't for long as I felt that for she was found . 
I had on'y to think as she was found , and it was gone . 
I doen't know why I do so much as mention of it now , I'm sure . 
I didn't have it in my mind a minute ago , to say a word about myself but it come up so nat'ral , that I yielded to it afore I was aweer . 
'You are a self denying soul , said my aunt , 'and will have your reward . 
It was a dark night , with a many stars a shining . 
She ran along the sea beach , believing the old boat was theer and calling out to us to turn away our faces , for she was a coming by . 
Ever so fur she run , and there was fire afore her eyes , and roarings in her ears . 
I can hardly believe , writing now long afterwards , but that I was actually present in these scenes they are impressed upon me with such an astonishing air of fidelity . 
'As Em'ly's eyes which was heavy see this woman better , Mr. Peggotty went on , 'she know'd as she was one of them as she had often talked to on the beach . 
She hadn't no children of her own , this woman , being a young wife but she was a looking to have one afore long . 
But Em'ly had took notice of her , and had gone and spoke to her and as the young woman was partial to the children herself , they had soon made friends . 
Sermuchser , that when Em'ly went that way , she always giv Em'ly flowers . 
This was her as now asked what it was that had gone so much amiss . 
Em'ly told her , and she took her home . 
She took her home , said Mr. Peggotty , covering his face . 
He was more affected by this act of kindness , than I had ever seen him affected by anything since the night she went away . 
My aunt and I did not attempt to disturb him . 
Here he stopped , as if for relief from the terrors of his own description . 
After being silent for a few moments , he pursued his story . 
'It was a pleasant arternoon when she awoke and so quiet , that there warn't a sound but the rippling of that blue sea without a tide , upon the shore . 
It was in vain to try . 
But , the language of that country was quite gone from her , and she was forced to make signs . 
The husband was come home , then and the two together put her aboard a small trader bound to Leghorn , and from that to France . 
She had a little money , but it was less than little as they would take for all they done . 
Mas'r Davy , it'll outlast all the treasure in the wureld . 
'Em'ly got to France , and took service to wait on travelling ladies at a inn in the port . 
Theer , theer come , one day , that snake . 
Let him never come nigh me . 
She come to England , and was set ashore at Dover . 
'I doen't know , said Mr. Peggotty , 'for sure , when her 'art begun to fail her but all the way to England she had thowt to come to her dear home . 
Soon as she got to England she turned her face tow'rds it . 
'She come , said Mr. Peggotty , dropping his voice to an awe stricken whisper , 'to London . 
She as had never seen it in her life alone without a penny young so pretty come to London . 
I could not repress a cry of joy . 
'Mas'r Davy ! said he , gripping my hand in that strong hand of his , 'it was you as first made mention of her to me . 
I thankee , sir ! She was arnest . 
She had know'd of her bitter knowledge wheer to watch and what to do . 
And the Lord was above all ! She come , white and hurried , upon Em'ly in her sleep . 
She wrapped her , hasty , in her clothes . 
She took her , faint and trembling , on her arm . 
She heeded no more what they said , than if she had had no ears . 
Then she went in search of me then in search of you , Mas'r Davy . 
She didn't tell Em'ly what she come out fur , lest her 'art should fail , and she should think of hiding of herself . 
How the cruel lady know'd of her being theer , I can't say . 
he had heerd it from the woman , I doen't greatly ask myself . 
'All night long , said Mr. Peggotty , 'we have been together , Em'ly and me . 
as she has said , in wureds , through them broken hearted tears 'tis less as I have seen of her dear face , as grow'd into a woman's at my hearth . 
He ceased to speak , and his hand upon the table rested there in perfect repose , with a resolution in it that might have conquered lions . 
'You have quite made up your mind , said I to Mr. Peggotty , 'as to the future , good friend ? I need scarcely ask you . 
'Quite , Mas'r Davy , he returned 'and told Em'ly . 
Theer's mighty countries , fur from heer . 
Our future life lays over the sea . 
'They will emigrate together , aunt , said I. 'Yes ! said Mr. Peggotty , with a hopeful smile . 
'No one can't reproach my darling in Australia . 
We will begin a new life over theer ! I asked him if he yet proposed to himself any time for going away . 
'I was down at the Docks early this morning , sir , he returned , 'to get information concerning of them ships . 
In about six weeks or two months from now , there'll be one sailing I see her this morning went aboard and we shall take our passage in her . 
'Quite alone ? I asked . 
'Aye , Mas'r Davy ! he returned . 
Besides which , theer's one she has in charge , Mas'r Davy , as doen't ought to be forgot . 
'He'll set and talk to her , with a calm spirit , wen it's like he couldn't bring himself to open his lips to another . 
You see , wen Missis Gummidge falls a thinking of the old 'un , she an't what you may call good company . 
'Wheerby , said Mr. Peggotty , 'my sister might I doen't say she would , but might find Missis Gummidge give her a leetle trouble now and again . 
Theerfur 'tan't my intentions to moor Missis Gummidge 'long with them , but to find a Beein' fur her wheer she can fisherate for herself . 
'Fur which purpose , said Mr. Peggotty , 'I means to make her a 'lowance afore I go , as'll leave her pretty comfort'ble . 
She's the faithfullest of creeturs . 
So that's what I'm a going to do with her . 
He thought of everybody's claims and strivings , but his own . 
'Em'ly , he continued , 'will keep along with me poor child , she's sore in need of peace and rest ! until such time as we goes upon our voyage . 
MY aunt nodded confirmation of this hope , and imparted great satisfaction to Mr. Peggotty . 
'Theer's these here banknotes fifty pound , and ten . 
To them I wish to add the money as she come away with . 
, and have added of it up . 
Would you be so kind as see how 'tis ? He handed me , apologetically for his scholarship , a piece of paper , and observed me while I looked it over . 
'Thankee , sir , he said , taking it back . 
I shall tell her , in no more wureds than I speak to you , what it's the price on and that I'm gone , and past receiving of it back . 
I told him that I thought it would be right to do so that I was thoroughly convinced it would be , since he felt it to be right . 
I warn't sure in my mind , wen I come out this morning , as I could go and break to Ham , of my own self , what had so thankfully happened . 
'And do you wish me to go with you ? said I , seeing that he left something unsaid . 
'If you could do me that kind favour , Mas'r Davy , he replied . 
'I know the sight on you would cheer 'em up a bit . 
Next morning , consequently , we were on the Yarmouth coach , and again travelling over the old ground . 
I felt reluctant to be present , when Mr. Peggotty first met his sister and Ham and made Mr. Omer my excuse for lingering behind . 
'How is Mr. Omer , after this long time ? said I , going in . 
He fanned away the smoke of his pipe , that he might get a better view of me , and soon recognized me with great delight . 
'I should get up , sir , to acknowledge such an honour as this visit , said he , 'only my limbs are rather out of sorts , and I am wheeled about . 
With the exception of my limbs and my breath , howsoever , I am as hearty as a man can be , I'm thankful to say . 
I congratulated him on his contented looks and his good spirits , and saw , now , that his easy chair went on wheels . 
'It's an ingenious thing , ain't it ? he inquired , following the direction of my glance , and polishing the elbow with his arm . 
'It runs as light as a feather , and tracks as true as a mail coach . 
I never saw such a good old fellow to make the best of a thing , and find out the enjoyment of it , as Mr. Omer . 
'I see more of the world , I can assure you , said Mr. Omer , 'in this chair , than ever I see out of it . 
You'd be surprised at the number of people that looks in of a day to have a chat . 
You really would ! There's twice as much in the newspaper , since I've taken to this chair , as there used to be . 
He half suffocated himself with laughing here . 
Joram does a fine business . 
Ex cellent business ! 'I am very glad to hear it , said I. 'I knew you would be , said Mr. Omer . 
'And Joram and Minnie are like Valentines . 
'And since I've took to general reading , you've took to general writing , eh , sir ? said Mr. Omer , surveying me admiringly . 
'What a lovely work that was of yours ! What expressions in it ! I read it every word every word . 
And as to feeling sleepy ! Not at all ! I laughingly expressed my satisfaction , but I must confess that I thought this association of ideas significant . 
And dear me , it's a long time ago , now , ain't it ? Over at Blunderstone . 
With a pretty little party laid along with the other party . 
And you quite a small party then , yourself . 
Dear , dear ! I changed the subject by referring to Emily . 
Mr. Peggotty has not alluded to it , and I have a delicacy in doing so . 
I am sure he has not forgotten it . 
He forgets nothing that is disinterested and good . 
'Because you know , said Mr. Omer , taking himself up , where he had left off , 'whatever is done , I should wish to be a member of . 
Put me down for anything you may consider right , and let me know . 
I never could think the girl all bad , and I am glad to find she's not . 
So will my daughter Minnie be . 
Young women are contradictory creatures in some things her mother was just the same as her but their hearts are soft and kind . 
It's all show with Minnie , about Martha . 
Why she should consider it necessary to make any show , I don't undertake to tell you . 
But it's all show , bless you . 
She'd do her any kindness in private . 
So , put me down for whatever you may consider right , will you be so good ? and drop me a line where to forward it . 
So let us always do a kindness , and be over rejoiced . 
To be sure ! He knocked the ashes out of his pipe , and put it on a ledge in the back of his chair , expressly made for its reception . 
That's a kindness , I should call it ! All his life's a kindness . 
'I am going to see him now , said I. 'Are you ? said Mr. Omer . 
'Tell him I was hearty , and sent my respects . 
Minnie and Joram's at a ball . 
They would be as proud to see you as I am , if they was at home . 
Minnie won't hardly go out at all , you see , on account of father , as she says . 
So I swore tonight , that if she didn't go , I'd go to bed at six . 
In consequence of which , Mr. Omer shook himself and his chair with laughter at the success of his device , 'she and Joram's at a ball . 
I shook hands with him , and wished him good night . 
'Half a minute , sir , said Mr. Omer . 
'If you was to go without seeing my little elephant , you'd lose the best of sights . 
'This is my little elephant , sir , said Mr. Omer , fondling the child . 
'The elephant butts , you know , sir , said Mr. Omer , winking , 'when he goes at a object . 
After a stroll about the town I went to Ham's house . 
I believe the very same slow horse that Mr. Barkis drove was still at work . 
I found them in the neat kitchen , accompanied by Mrs. Gummidge , who had been fetched from the old boat by Mr. Peggotty himself . 
I doubt if she could have been induced to desert her post , by anyone else . 
He had evidently told them all . 
Both Peggotty and Mrs. Gummidge had their aprons to their eyes , and Ham had just stepped out 'to take a turn on the beach' . 
He presently came home , very glad to see me and I hope they were all the better for my being there . 
We spoke , with some approach to cheerfulness , of Mr. Peggotty's growing rich in a new country , and of the wonders he would describe in his letters . 
We said nothing of Emily by name , but distantly referred to her more than once . 
Ham was the serenest of the party . 
But , Peggotty told me , when she lighted me to a little chamber where the Crocodile book was lying ready for me on the table , that he always was the same . 
that he was broken hearted though he was as full of courage as of sweetness , and worked harder and better than any boat builder in any yard in all that part . 
There were times , she said , of an evening , when he talked of their old life in the boat house and then he mentioned Emily as a child . 
But , he never mentioned her as a woman . 
I thought I had read in his face that he would like to speak to me alone . 
I therefore resolved to put myself in his way next evening , as he came home from his work . 
Having settled this with myself , I fell asleep . 
She was with him all day . 
As I had a sorrowful wish to see the old place once more , before it was locked up , I engaged to meet them there in the evening . 
But I so arranged it , as that I should meet Ham first . 
It was easy to come in his way , as I knew where he worked . 
I had not mistaken the expression of his face . 
'So 'twould , sir , so 'twould . 
I thankee , sir , most kind ! I think theer is something I could wish said or wrote . 
'What is it ? We walked a little farther in silence , and then he spoke . 
''Tan't that I forgive her . 
'Tis more as I beg of her to forgive me , for having pressed my affections upon her . 
'Is that all ? 'Theer's yet a something else , he returned , 'if I can say it , Mas'r Davy . 
We walked on , farther than we had walked yet , before he spoke again . 
He was not crying when he made the pauses I shall express by lines . 
He was merely collecting himself to speak very plainly . 
'I loved her and I love the mem'ry of her too deep to be able to lead her to believe of my own self as I'm a happy man . 
I could only be happy by forgetting of her and I'm afeerd I couldn't hardly bear as she should be told I done that . 
I pressed his manly hand again , and told him I would charge myself to do this as well as I could . 
'I thankee , sir , he answered . 
''Twas kind of you to meet me . 
'Twas kind of you to bear him company down . 
I fare to feel sure on't . 
We doen't say so , but so 'twill be , and better so . 
'I thankee agen , sir , he said , heartily shaking hands . 
'I know wheer you're a going . 
Good bye ! With a slight wave of his hand , as though to explain to me that he could not enter the old place , he turned away . 
'Come , according to promise , to bid farewell to 't , eh , Mas'r Davy ? he said , taking up the candle . 
'Bare enough , now , an't it ? 'Indeed you have made good use of the time , said I. 'Why , we have not been idle , sir . 
Missis Gummidge has worked like a I doen't know what Missis Gummidge an't worked like , said Mr. Peggotty , looking at her , at a loss for a sufficiently approving simile . 
Mrs. Gummidge , leaning on her basket , made no observation . 
'Theer's the very locker that you used to sit on , 'long with Em'ly ! said Mr. Peggotty , in a whisper . 
'I'm a going to carry it away with me , last of all . 
Everything was gone , down to the little mirror with the oyster shell frame . 
I thought of myself , lying here , when that first great change was being wrought at home . 
I thought of the blue eyed child who had enchanted me . 
I thought of Steerforth and a foolish , fearful fancy came upon me of his being near at hand , and liable to be met at any turn . 
''Tis like to be long , said Mr. Peggotty , in a low voice , 'afore the boat finds new tenants . 
They look upon 't , down beer , as being unfortunate now ! 'Does it belong to anybody in the neighbourhood ? I asked . 
'To a mast maker up town , said Mr. Peggotty . 
'I'm a going to give the key to him tonight . 
'Doen't ye , dearest Dan'l , doen't ye ! cried Mrs. Gummidge , fervently . 
'Take me 'long with you , Dan'l , take me 'long with you and Em'ly ! I'll be your servant , constant and trew . 
'But my parting words under this roof is , I shall go into the house and die , if I am not took . 
I can dig , Dan'l . 
I can be loving and patient now more than you think , Dan'l , if you'll on'y try me . 
We brought the locker out , extinguished the candle , fastened the door on the outside , and left the old boat close shut up , a dark speck in the cloudy night . 
Next day , when we were returning to London outside the coach , Mrs. Gummidge and her basket were on the seat behind , and Mrs. Gummidge was happy . 
'I won't speak to you , said Dora , shaking her curls at my aunt . 
'I'll be disagreeable ! I'll make Jip bark at you all day . 
I shall be sure that you really are a cross old thing , if you don't go ! 'Tut , Blossom ! laughed my aunt . 
'You know you can't do without me ! 'Yes , I can , said Dora . 
'You are no use to me at all . 
You never run up and down stairs for me , all day long . 
'But , aunt , said Dora , coaxingly , 'now listen . 
I shall tease you , 'till you let me have my own way about it . 
I shall lead my naughty boy such a life , if he don't make you go . 
I shall make myself so disagreeable and so will Jip ! You'll wish you had gone , like a good thing , for ever and ever so long , if you don't go . 
Besides , said Dora , putting back her hair , and looking wonderingly at my aunt and me , 'why shouldn't you both go ? I am not very ill indeed . 
Am I ? 'Why , what a question ! cried my aunt . 
'You'll come back with so much to tell me , that it'll take at least a week to make me understand ! said Dora . 
'Because I know I shan't understand , for a length of time , if there's any business in it . 
There ! Now you'll go , won't you ? You'll only be gone one night , and Jip will take care of me while you are gone . 
Early in the morning , I sauntered through the dear old tranquil streets , and again mingled with the shadows of the venerable gateways and churches . 
The early sun was striking edgewise on its gables and lattice windows , touching them with gold and some beams of its old peace seemed to touch my heart . 
I strolled into the country for an hour or so , and then returned by the main street , which in the interval had shaken off its last night's sleep . 
Among those who were stirring in the shops , I saw my ancient enemy the butcher , now advanced to top boots and a baby , and in business for himself . 
He was nursing the baby , and appeared to be a benignant member of society . 
We all became very anxious and impatient , when we sat down to breakfast . 
As it approached nearer and nearer to half past nine o'clock , our restless expectation of Mr. Micawber increased . 
Nor had I long to watch , for , at the first chime of the half hour , he appeared in the street . 
, and put on her shawl , as if she were ready for anything that was resolute and uncompromising . 
Traddles buttoned his coat with a determined air . 
'Gentlemen , and madam , said Mr. Micawber , 'good morning ! My dear sir , to Mr. Dick , who shook hands with him violently , 'you are extremely good . 
'Have you breakfasted ? said Mr. Dick . 
'Dick , said my aunt , 'attention ! Mr. Dick recovered himself , with a blush . 
'Madam , returned Mr. Micawber , 'I trust you will shortly witness an eruption . 
Micawber has consulted me in reference to what he has in contemplation and I have advised him to the best of my judgement . 
'Unless I deceive myself , Mr. Traddles , pursued Mr. Micawber , 'what I contemplate is a disclosure of an important nature . 
'Highly so , said Traddles . 
Copperfield , returned Mr. Micawber , 'your confidence is not , at the existing juncture , ill bestowed . 
My aunt and I looked at Traddles , who nodded his approval . 
'I have no more , observed Mr. Micawber , 'to say at present . 
With which , to my infinite surprise , he included us all in a comprehensive bow , and disappeared his manner being extremely distant , and his face extremely pale . 
, when I looked to him for an explanation so I took out my watch , and , as a last resource , counted off the five minutes . 
My aunt , with her own watch in her hand , did the like . 
When the time was expired , Traddles gave her his arm and we all went out together to the old house , without saying one word on the way . 
We found Mr. Micawber at his desk , in the turret office on the ground floor , either writing , or pretending to write , hard . 
As it appeared to me that I was expected to speak , I said aloud 'How do you do , Mr. Micawber ? 'Mr . 
Copperfield , said Mr. Micawber , gravely , 'I hope I see you well ? 'Is Miss Wickfield at home ? said I. 'Mr . 
Wickfield is unwell in bed , sir , of a rheumatic fever , he returned 'but Miss Wickfield , I have no doubt , will be happy to see old friends . 
Our visit astonished him , evidently not the less , I dare say , because it astonished ourselves . 
This was only when we were in the act of entering his room , and when I caught a glance at him over my aunt's shoulder . 
A moment afterwards , he was as fawning and as humble as ever . 
'Well , I am sure , he said . 
'This is indeed an unexpected pleasure ! To have , as I may say , all friends round St . 
Mrs. Copperfield , sir , I hope she's getting on . 
We have been made quite uneasy by the poor accounts we have had of her state , lately , I do assure you . 
I felt ashamed to let him take my hand , but I did not know yet what else to do . 
'Things are changed in this office , Miss Trotwood , since I was an umble clerk , and held your pony ain't they ? said Uriah , with his sickliest smile . 
'But I am not changed , Miss Trotwood . 
'Well , sir , returned my aunt , 'to tell you the truth , I think you are pretty constant to the promise of your youth if that's any satisfaction to you . 
'Thank you , Miss Trotwood , said Uriah , writhing in his ungainly manner , 'for your good opinion ! Micawber , tell 'em to let Miss Agnes know and mother . 
Mother will be quite in a state , when she sees the present company ! said Uriah , setting chairs . 
'You are not busy , Mr. Heep ? said Traddles , whose eye the cunning red eye accidentally caught , as it at once scrutinized and evaded us . 
'No , Mr. Traddles , replied Uriah , resuming his official seat , and squeezing his bony hands , laid palm to palm between his bony knees . 
'Not so much so as I could wish . 
But it's a pleasure as well as a duty , I am sure , to work for him . 
There was something in the tone of this reply , which made Uriah look at the speaker again , with a very sinister and suspicious expression . 
You would have admired him as much as we all do . 
His little failings would only have endeared him to you the more . 
But if you would like to hear my fellow partner eloquently spoken of , I should refer you to Copperfield . 
The family is a subject he's very strong upon , if you never heard him . 
, by the entrance of Agnes , now ushered in by Mr. Micawber . 
She was not quite so self possessed as usual , I thought and had evidently undergone anxiety and fatigue . 
But her earnest cordiality , and her quiet beauty , shone with the gentler lustre for it . 
I saw Uriah watch her while she greeted us and he reminded me of an ugly and rebellious genie watching a good spirit . 
In the meanwhile , some slight sign passed between Mr. Micawber and Traddles and Traddles , unobserved except by me , went out . 
'Don't wait , Micawber , said Uriah . 
Mr. Micawber , with his hand upon the ruler in his breast , stood erect before the door , most unmistakably contemplating one of his fellow men , and that man his employer . 
'What are you waiting for ? said Uriah . 
'Micawber ! did you hear me tell you not to wait ? 'Yes ! replied the immovable Mr. Micawber . 
'Then why DO you wait ? said Uriah . 
'Because I in short , choose , replied Mr. Micawber , with a burst . 
Uriah's cheeks lost colour , and an unwholesome paleness , still faintly tinged by his pervading red , overspread them . 
He looked at Mr. Micawber attentively , with his whole face breathing short and quick in every feature . 
Go along ! I'll talk to you presently . 
You'll make nothing of this . 
We understand each other , you and me . 
There's no love between us . 
I'll talk to you presently . 
Micawber , said I , 'there is a sudden change in this fellow . 
in more respects than the extraordinary one of his speaking the truth in one particular , which assures me that he is brought to bay . 
I won't know your story professionally , for nothing , old lady ! Miss Wickfield , if you have any love for your father , you had better not join that gang . 
I'll ruin him , if you do . 
Now , come ! I have got some of you under the harrow . 
Think twice , before it goes over you . 
Think twice , you , Micawber , if you don't want to be crushed . 
I recommend you to take yourself off , and be talked to presently , you fool ! while there's time to retreat . 
Where's mother ? he said , suddenly appearing to notice , with alarm , the absence of Traddles , and pulling down the bell rope . 
'Fine doings in a person's own house ! 'Mrs . 
Heep is here , sir , said Traddles , returning with that worthy mother of a worthy son . 
'I have taken the liberty of making myself known to her . 
'Who are you to make yourself known ? retorted Uriah . 
'And what do you want here ? 'I am the agent and friend of Mr. Wickfield , sir , said Traddles , in a composed and business like way . 
'And I have a power of attorney from him in my pocket , to act for him in all matters . 
We will refer that question , if you please , to Mr. Micawber . 
'Ury ! Mrs. Heep began , with an anxious gesture . 
'YOU hold your tongue , mother , he returned 'least said , soonest mended . 
We shall see ! Mr. What's your name , you were going to refer some question to Micawber . 
Why don't you make him speak ? He has learnt his lesson , I see . 
, and produced from his pocket a foolscap document , folded in the form of a large letter . 
'He'd write letters by the ream , if it was a capital offence ! Mr. Micawber , without hearing her , went on . 
The victim , from my cradle , of pecuniary liabilities to which I have been unable to respond , I have ever been the sport and toy of debasing circumstances . 
Ignominy , Want , Despair , and Madness , have , collectively or separately , been the attendants of my career . 
HEEP , and only HEEP , is the mainspring of that machine . 
HEEP , and only HEEP , is the Forger and the Cheat . 
Uriah , more blue than white at these words , made a dart at the letter , as if to tear it in pieces . 
Mr. Micawber , with a perfect miracle of dexterity or luck , caught his advancing knuckles with the ruler , and disabled his right hand . 
It dropped at the wrist , as if it were broken . 
The blow sounded as if it had fallen on wood . 
'The Devil take you ! said Uriah , writhing in a new way with pain . 
'I'll be even with you . 
'Approach me again , you you you HEEP of infamy , gasped Mr. Micawber , 'and if your head is human , I'll break it . 
Mr. Micawber , when he was sufficiently cool , proceeded with his letter . 
He read on Then it was that HEEP began to favour me with just so much of his confidence , as was necessary to the discharge of his infernal business . 
Then it was that I began , if I may so Shakespearianly express myself , to dwindle , peak , and pine . 
, of the various malpractices of a minor nature , affecting the individual whom I have denominated Mr. W. , to which I have been a tacitly consenting party . 
He read this passage as if it were from an Act of Parliament and appeared majestically refreshed by the sound of the words . 
We all held our breath , I think . 
I am sure Uriah held his . 
When Mr. W. was least fit to enter on business , HEEP was always at hand to force him to enter on it . 
He obtained Mr. W. 's signature under such circumstances to documents of importance , representing them to be other documents of no importance . 
'You shall prove this , you Copperfield ! said Uriah , with a threatening shake of the head . 
'Or ask him , said Mr. Micawber , 'if he ever burnt one there . 
HEEP has , on several occasions , to the best of my knowledge , information , and belief 'But that won't do , muttered Uriah , relieved . 
'Mother , you keep quiet . 
'We will endeavour to provide something that WILL do , and do for you finally , sir , very shortly , replied Mr. Micawber . 
I have observed it , in the course of my life , in numbers of men . 
It seems to me to be a general rule . 
Mr. Micawber read on , almost smacking his lips To wit , in manner following , that is to say . 
The signatures to this instrument purporting to be executed by Mr. W. and attested by Wilkins Micawber , are forgeries by HEEP . 
I never attested any such document . 
And I have the document itself , in my possession . 
'It is quite true , assented Traddles . 
'Ury , Ury ! cried the mother , 'be umble and make terms . 
I know my son will be umble , gentlemen , if you'll give him time to think . 
'Mother , he said , with an impatient bite at the handkerchief in which his hand was wrapped , 'you had better take and fire a loaded gun at me . 
'But I love you , Ury , cried Mrs. Heep . 
And I have no doubt she did or that he loved her , however strange it may appear though , to be sure , they were a congenial couple . 
'And I can't bear to hear you provoking the gentlemen , and endangering of yourself more . 
I told the gentleman at first , when he told me upstairs it was come to light , that I would answer for your being umble , and making amends . 
'I can't see you running into danger , through carrying your head so high . 
Better be umble , as you always was . 
What do you look at me for ? Mr. Micawber promptly resumed his letter , glad to revert to a performance with which he was so highly satisfied . 
That Mr. W. has been for years deluded and plundered , in every conceivable manner , to the pecuniary aggrandisement of the avaricious , false , and grasping HEEP . 
All this I undertake to show . 
He said , with exceeding gravity , 'Pardon me , and proceeded , with a mixture of the lowest spirits and the most intense enjoyment , to the peroration of his letter . 
It merely remains for me to substantiate these accusations and then , with my ill starred family , to disappear from the landscape on which we appear to be an encumbrance . 
It may be reasonably inferred that our baby will first expire of inanition , as being the frailest member of our circle and that our twins will follow next in order . 
So be it ! For myself , my Canterbury Pilgrimage has done much imprisonment on civil process , and want , will soon do more . 
Much affected , but still intensely enjoying himself , Mr. Micawber folded up his letter , and handed it with a bow to my aunt , as something she might like to keep . 
There was , as I had noticed on my first visit long ago , an iron safe in the room . 
The key was in it . 
A hasty suspicion seemed to strike Uriah and , with a glance at Mr. Micawber , he went to it , and threw the doors clanking open . 
'Where are the books ? he cried , with a frightful face . 
'Some thief has stolen the books ! Mr. Micawber tapped himself with the ruler . 
'I did , when I got the key from you as usual but a little earlier and opened it this morning . 
'Don't be uneasy , said Traddles . 
'They have come into my possession . 
I will take care of them , under the authority I mentioned . 
'You receive stolen goods , do you ? cried Uriah . 
'Under such circumstances , answered Traddles , 'yes . 
'A strait waistcoat , said he . 
My property ! returned my aunt . 
I hastened to put myself between them , and to assure her that we would all take care that he should make the utmost restitution of everything he had wrongly got . 
and resumed her seat composedly . 
'Has that Copperfield no tongue ? muttered Uriah , 'I would do a good deal for you if you could tell me , without lying , that somebody had cut it out . 
'My Uriah means to be umble ! cried his mother . 
'Don't mind what he says , good gentlemen ! 'What must be done , said Traddles , 'is this . 
First , the deed of relinquishment , that we have heard of , must be given over to me now here . 
'Suppose I haven't got it , he interrupted . 
'But you have , said Traddles 'therefore , you know , we won't suppose so . 
'Then , said Traddles , 'you must prepare to disgorge all that your rapacity has become possessed of , and to make restoration to the last farthing . 
All the partnership books and papers must remain in our possession all your books and papers all money accounts and securities , of both kinds . 
In short , everything here . 
'Must it ? I don't know that , said Uriah . 
'I must have time to think about that . 
'I won't do it ! said Uriah , with an oath . 
He was a coward , from head to foot and showed his dastardly nature through his sullenness and mortification , as much as at any time of his mean life . 
'Stop ! he growled to me and wiped his hot face with his hand . 
'Mother , hold your noise . 
Well ! Let 'em have that deed . 
Go and fetch it ! 'Do you help her , Mr. Dick , said Traddles , 'if you please . 
Proud of his commission , and understanding it , Mr. Dick accompanied her as a shepherd's dog might accompany a sheep . 
'Good ! said Traddles , when this was brought . 
You've always been an upstart , and you've always been against me . 
'As I think I told you once before , said I , 'it is you who have been , in your greed and cunning , against all the world . 
It is as certain as death . 
'You preach , about as consistent as they did . 
Won't umbleness go down ? I shouldn't have got round my gentleman fellow partner without it , I think . 
After which , he invited the company generally to the contemplation of that affecting spectacle . 
So , Traddles remained for the latter purpose , to be presently relieved by Mr. Dick and Mr. Dick , my aunt , and I , went home with Mr. Micawber . 
Mr. Micawber exclaiming , 'Emma ! my life ! rushed into Mrs. Micawber's arms . 
Mrs. Micawber shrieked , and folded Mr. Micawber in her embrace . 
Miss Micawber , nursing the unconscious stranger of Mrs. Micawber's last letter to me , was sensibly affected . 
The twins testified their joy by several inconvenient but innocent demonstrations . 
Master Micawber , whose disposition appeared to have been soured by early disappointment , and whose aspect had become morose , yielded to his better feelings , and blubbered . 
'Emma ! said Mr. Micawber . 
'The cloud is past from my mind . 
Mutual confidence , so long preserved between us once , is restored , to know no further interruption . 
Now , welcome poverty ! cried Mr. Micawber , shedding tears . 
This my aunt and Mr. Micawber did and then my aunt was introduced , and Mrs. Micawber recognized me . 
'Is this all your family , ma'am ? said my aunt . 
'There are no more at present , returned Mrs. Micawber . 
'Good gracious , I didn't mean that , ma'am , said my aunt . 
'I mean , are all these yours ? 'Madam , replied Mr. Micawber , 'it is a true bill . 
'But he means well , said Mrs. Micawber , tenderly . 
Micawber , I wonder you have never turned your thoughts to emigration . 
'Madam , returned Mr. Micawber , 'it was the dream of my youth , and the fallacious aspiration of my riper years . 
I am thoroughly persuaded , by the by , that he had never thought of it in his life . 
'Aye ? said my aunt , with a glance at me . 
'Why , what a thing it would be for yourselves and your family , Mr. and Mrs. Micawber , if you were to emigrate now . 
'Capital , madam , capital , urged Mr. Micawber , gloomily . 
'That is the principal , I may say the only difficulty , my dear Mr. Copperfield , assented his wife . 
'Capital ? cried my aunt . 
Think of this now , both of you . 
Here are some people David knows , going out to Australia shortly . 
If you decide to go , why shouldn't you go in the same ship ? You may help each other . 
Think of this now , Mr. and Mrs. Micawber . 
Take your time , and weigh it well . 
'There is but one question , my dear ma'am , I could wish to ask , said Mrs. Micawber . 
'The climate , I believe , is healthy ? 'Finest in the world ! said my aunt . 
'Just so , returned Mrs. Micawber . 
'For a man who conducts himself well , repeated Mrs. Micawber , with her clearest business manner , 'and is industrious . 
It is no distance comparatively speaking and though consideration is due to the kindness of your proposal , I assure you that is a mere matter of form . 
All else grows dim , and fades away . 
I am again with Dora , in our cottage . 
I do not know how long she has been ill . 
I am so used to it in feeling , that I cannot count the time . 
It is not really long , in weeks or months but , in my usage and experience , it is a weary , weary while . 
They have left off telling me to 'wait a few days more' . 
I have begun to fear , remotely , that the day may never shine , when I shall see my child wife running in the sunlight with her old friend Jip . 
He is , as it were suddenly , grown very old . 
Dora lies smiling on us , and is beautiful , and utters no hasty or complaining word . 
Sometimes , the little bird like ladies come to see her and then we talk about our wedding day , and all that happy time . 
So you must make haste to get well , my dear . 
We have been silent , and there is a smile upon her face . 
I have ceased to carry my light burden up and down stairs now . 
She lies here all the day . 
Very much I want to see her . 
'I will write to her , my dear . 
'What a good , kind boy ! Doady , take me on your arm . 
Indeed , my dear , it's not a whim . 
It's not a foolish fancy . 
I want , very much indeed , to see her ! 'I am certain of it . 
I have only to tell her so , and she is sure to come . 
'You are very lonely when you go downstairs , now ? Dora whispers , with her arm about my neck . 
'How can I be otherwise , my own love , when I see your empty chair ? 'My empty chair ! She clings to me for a little while , in silence . 
'And you really miss me , Doady ? looking up , and brightly smiling . 
She laughs and sobs , and then is quiet , and quite happy . 
'Only give Agnes my dear love , and tell her that I want very , very , much to see her and I have nothing left to wish for . 
'Except to get well again , Dora . 
But I am very happy though my dear boy is so lonely by himself , before his child wife's empty chair ! It is night and I am with her still . 
Agnes has arrived has been among us for a whole day and an evening . 
She , my aunt , and I , have sat with Dora since the morning , all together . 
We have not talked much , but Dora has been perfectly contented and cheerful . 
I have withdrawn by myself , many times today , to weep . 
I have remembered Who wept for a parting between the living and the dead . 
I have bethought me of all that gracious and compassionate history . 
I hold her hand in mine , I hold her heart in mine , I see her love for me , alive in all its strength . 
I cannot shut out a pale lingering shadow of belief that she will be spared . 
'I am going to speak to you , Doady . 
I am going to say something I have often thought of saying , lately . 
You won't mind ? with a gentle look . 
'Mind , my darling ? 'Because I don't know what you will think , or what you may have thought sometimes . 
Perhaps you have often thought the same . 
Doady , dear , I am afraid I was too young . 
I lay my face upon the pillow by her , and she looks into my eyes , and speaks very softly . 
Gradually , as she goes on , I feel , with a stricken heart , that she is speaking of herself as past . 
'I am afraid , dear , I was too young . 
I don't mean in years only , but in experience , and thoughts , and everything . 
I was such a silly little creature ! I am afraid it would have been better , if we had only loved each other as a boy and girl , and forgotten it . 
I have begun to think I was not fit to be a wife . 
'Perhaps ! But if I had been more fit to be married I might have made you more so , too . 
Besides , you are very clever , and I never was . 
'We have been very happy , my sweet Dora . 
'I was very happy , very . 
But , as years went on , my dear boy would have wearied of his child wife . 
She would have been less and less a companion for him . 
He would have been more and more sensible of what was wanting in his home . 
It is better as it is . 
'Oh , Dora , dearest , dearest , do not speak to me so . 
Every word seems a reproach ! 'No , not a syllable ! she answers , kissing me . 
Is it lonely , down stairs , Doady ? 'Very ! Very ! 'Don't cry ! Is my chair there ? 'In its old place . 
'Oh , how my poor boy cries ! Hush , hush ! Now , make me one promise . 
I want to speak to Agnes . 
When you go downstairs , tell Agnes so , and send her up to me and while I speak to her , let no one come not even aunt . 
I want to speak to Agnes by herself . 
I want to speak to Agnes , quite alone . 
I promise that she shall , immediately but I cannot leave her , for my grief . 
'I said that it was better as it is ! she whispers , as she holds me in her arms . 
It is much better as it is ! Agnes is downstairs , when I go into the parlour and I give her the message . 
She disappears , leaving me alone with Jip . 
His Chinese house is by the fire and he lies within it , on his bed of flannel , querulously trying to sleep . 
The bright moon is high and clear . 
As I look out on the night , my tears fall fast , and my undisciplined heart is chastened heavily heavily . 
I sit down by the fire , thinking with a blind remorse of all those secret feelings I have nourished since my marriage . 
I think of every little trifle between me and Dora , and feel the truth , that trifles make the sum of life . 
More restless than he was , he crawls out of his house , and looks at me , and wanders to the door , and whines to go upstairs . 
'Not tonight , Jip ! Not tonight ! He comes very slowly back to me , licks my hand , and lifts his dim eyes to my face . 
Darkness comes before my eyes and , for a time , all things are blotted out of my remembrance . 
CHAPTER Mr. MICAWBER'S TRANSACTIONS This is not the time at which I am to enter on the state of my mind beneath its load of sorrow . 
I came to think so , I say , but not in the first shock of my grief . 
It slowly grew to that . 
, that I might have fallen at once into this condition . 
The spirit of Agnes so pervaded all we thought , and said , and did , in that time of sorrow , that I assume I may refer the project to her influence . 
But her influence was so quiet that I know no more . 
When the Angel of Death alighted there , my child wife fell asleep they told me so when I could bear to hear it on her bosom , with a smile . 
I was to go abroad . 
That seemed to have been determined among us from the first . 
The ground now covering all that could perish of my departed wife , I waited only for what Mr. Micawber called the 'final pulverization of Heep' and for the departure of the emigrants . 
When poor Mrs. Micawber saw me come in , in my black clothes , she was sensibly affected . 
There was a great deal of good in Mrs. Micawber's heart , which had not been dunned out of it in all those many years . 
'Well , Mr. and Mrs. Micawber , was my aunt's first salutation after we were seated . 
'That's right , said my aunt . 
'I augur all sort of good from your sensible decision . 
'Madam , you do us a great deal of honour , he rejoined . 
He then referred to a memorandum . 
Labour , I believe , is sometimes difficult to obtain in that portion of our colonial possessions where it will be our lot to combat with the teeming soil . 
'Arrange it in any way you please , sir , said my aunt . 
'Madam , he replied , 'Mrs . 
Micawber and myself are deeply sensible of the very considerate kindness of our friends and patrons . 
What I wish is , to be perfectly business like , and perfectly punctual . 
But if a Bond , or any other description of security , would be preferred , I should be happy to execute any such instrument . 
As between man and man . 
MY aunt observed , that in a case where both parties were willing to agree to anything , she took it for granted there would be no difficulty in settling this point . 
Mr. Micawber was of her opinion . 
My eldest daughter attends at five every morning in a neighbouring establishment , to acquire the process if process it may be called of milking cows . 
'All very right indeed , said my aunt , encouragingly . 
Micawber has been busy , too , I have no doubt . 
'My dear madam , returned Mrs. Micawber , with her business like air . 
Such opportunities as I have been enabled to alienate from my domestic duties , I have devoted to corresponding at some length with my family . 
I said I thought so too . 
'This , at least , is the light , my dear Mr. Copperfield , pursued Mrs. Micawber , 'in which I view the subject . 
Of course you have , ma'am , said my aunt . 
'Precisely so , assented Mrs. Micawber . 
I do not mean to be conferred in Baptism upon our children , but to be inscribed on Bills of Exchange , and negotiated in the Money Market . 
'Micawber , said Mrs. Micawber , shaking her head , 'no ! You have never understood them , and they have never understood you . 
'They have never understood you , Micawber , said his wife . 
'They may be incapable of it . 
If so , that is their misfortune . 
I can pity their misfortune . 
My dear boy , I hope you are not worn out ? 'I am quite myself , said I , after a pause . 
'We have more cause to think of my aunt than of anyone . 
You know how much she has done . 
'Surely , surely , answered Traddles . 
Several times she has gone out early , and been absent until evening . 
Last night , Traddles , with this journey before her , it was almost midnight before she came home . 
You know what her consideration for others is . 
She will not tell me what has happened to distress her . 
'It's nothing , Trot it's nothing . 
There will be no more of it . 
You shall know by and by . 
Now Agnes , my dear , let us attend to these affairs . 
I never saw such a fellow . 
If he always goes on in the same way , he must be , virtually , about two hundred years old , at present . 
'Letters ! cried my aunt . 
'Dick is a very remarkable man , exclaimed my aunt 'and I always said he was . 
Trot , you know it . 
'I am happy to say , Miss Wickfield , pursued Traddles , at once with great delicacy and with great earnestness , 'that in your absence Mr. Wickfield has considerably improved . 
Relieved of the incubus that had fastened upon him for so long a time , and of the dreadful apprehensions under which he had lived , he is hardly the same person . 
But what I have to do is to come to results which are short enough not to gossip on all the hopeful circumstances I have observed , or I shall never have done . 
'Now , let me see , said Traddles , looking among the papers on the table . 
'Oh , thank Heaven ! cried Agnes , fervently . 
His friends might advise him , you know now he is free . 
'I will not say that I recommend it , observed Traddles . 
'I think it right to suggest it . 
'I am happy to hear you say so , answered Agnes , steadily , 'for it gives me hope , almost assurance , that we think alike . 
It has been , for years , the utmost height of my hopes . 
To take our future on myself , will be the next great happiness the next to his release from all trust and responsibility that I can know . 
'Have you thought how , Agnes ? 'Often ! I am not afraid , dear Trotwood . 
I am certain of success . 
So many people know me here , and think kindly of me , that I am certain . 
Our wants are not many . 
If I rent the dear old house , and keep a school , I shall be useful and happy . 
The calm fervour of her cheerful voice brought back so vividly , first the dear old house itself , and then my solitary home , that my heart was too full for speech . 
Traddles pretended for a little while to be busily looking among the papers . 
'Next , Miss Trotwood , said Traddles , 'that property of yours . 
'Well , sir , sighed my aunt . 
'All I have got to say about it is , that if it's gone , I can bear it and if it's not gone , I shall be glad to get it back . 
'It was originally , I think , eight thousand pounds , Consols ? said Traddles . 
'Right ! replied my aunt . 
'I can't account for more than five , said Traddles , with an air of perplexity . 
thousand , do you mean ? inquired my aunt , with uncommon composure , 'or pounds ? 'Five thousand pounds , said Traddles . 
'It was all there was , returned my aunt . 
'I sold three , myself . 
One , I paid for your articles , Trot , my dear and the other two I have by me . 
When I lost the rest , I thought it wise to say nothing about that sum , but to keep it secretly for a rainy day . 
I wanted to see how you would come out of the trial , Trot and you came out nobly persevering , self reliant , self denying ! So did Dick . 
'Then I am delighted to say , cried Traddles , beaming with joy , 'that we have recovered the whole money ! 'Don't congratulate me , anybody ! exclaimed my aunt . 
'How so , sir ? 'You believed it had been misappropriated by Mr. Wickfield ? said Traddles . 
'Of course I did , said my aunt , 'and was therefore easily silenced . 
to keep other deficiencies and difficulties from the light . 
'And at last took the blame upon himself , added my aunt 'and wrote me a mad letter , charging himself with robbery , and wrong unheard of . 
If anybody speaks to me , I'll leave the house ! We all remained quiet Agnes covering her face . 
Micawber had so completely hemmed him in , and was always ready with so many new points if an old one failed , that he could not escape from us . 
He said so to me , plainly . 
He said he would even have spent as much , to baulk or injure Copperfield . 
'Ha ! said my aunt , knitting her brows thoughtfully , and glancing at Agnes . 
'And what's become of him ? 'I don't know . 
He left here , said Traddles , 'with his mother , who had been clamouring , and beseeching , and disclosing , the whole time . 
They went away by one of the London night coaches , and I know no more about him except that his malevolence to me at parting was audacious . 
'Do you suppose he has any money , Traddles ? I asked . 
'Oh dear , yes , I should think so , he replied , shaking his head , seriously . 
'I should say he must have pocketed a good deal , in one way or other . 
But , I think you would find , Copperfield , if you had an opportunity of observing his course , that money would never keep that man out of mischief . 
He is such an incarnate hypocrite , that whatever object he pursues , he must pursue crookedly . 
It's his only compensation for the outward restraints he puts upon himself . 
So the crooked courses will become crookeder , at any moment , for the least reason , or for none . 
It's only necessary to consider his history here , said Traddles , 'to know that . 
'He's a monster of meanness ! said my aunt . 
'Really I don't know about that , observed Traddles thoughtfully . 
'Many people can be very mean , when they give their minds to it . 
'And now , touching Mr. Micawber , said my aunt . 
'Well , really , said Traddles , cheerfully , 'I must , once more , give Mr. Micawber high praise . 
But for his having been so patient and persevering for so long a time , we never could have hoped to do anything worth speaking of . 
'I think so too , said I. 'Now , what would you give him ? inquired my aunt . 
two points , in making this lawless adjustment for it's perfectly lawless from beginning to end of a difficult affair . 
Those I. O. U. 's , and so forth , which Mr. Micawber gave him for the advances he had 'Well ! They must be paid , said my aunt . 
'Then he must be constantly set free again , and taken out of execution , said my aunt . 
'Now , what shall we give him , that sum included ? said my aunt . 
'Agnes , my dear , you and I can talk about division of it afterwards . 
What should it be ? Five hundred pounds ? Upon this , Traddles and I both struck in at once . 
We both recommended a small sum in money , and the payment , without stipulation to Mr. Micawber , of the Uriah claims as they came in . 
We all entered warmly into these views and I may mention at once , that the principals themselves did so , shortly afterwards , with perfect good will and harmony . 
Seeing that Traddles now glanced anxiously at my aunt again , I reminded him of the second and last point to which he had adverted . 
On the day of Mr. Micawber's memorable denunciation a threatening allusion was made by Uriah Heep to your aunt's husband . 
My aunt , retaining her stiff position , and apparent composure , assented with a nod . 
'Perhaps , observed Traddles , 'it was mere purposeless impertinence ? 'No , returned my aunt . 
'There was pardon me really such a person , and at all in his power ? hinted Traddles . 
'Yes , my good friend , said my aunt . 
My aunt remained quiet until again some stray tears found their way to her cheeks . 
'You are quite right , she said . 
'It was very thoughtful to mention it . 
'Can I or Copperfield do anything ? asked Traddles , gently . 
'Nothing , said my aunt . 
'I thank you many times . 
Trot , my dear , a vain threat ! Let us have Mr. and Mrs. Micawber back . 
And don't any of you speak to me ! With that she smoothed her dress , and sat , with her upright carriage , looking at the door . 
'Well , Mr. and Mrs. Micawber ! said my aunt , when they entered . 
'We have been discussing your emigration , with many apologies to you for keeping you out of the room so long and I'll tell you what arrangements we propose . 
'Madam , replied Mr. Micawber , 'it is my intention to register such a vow on the virgin page of the future . 
Mrs. Micawber will attest it . 
, folded them up and put them in his pocket . 
This closed the proceedings of the evening . 
We were weary with sorrow and fatigue , and my aunt and I were to return to London on the morrow . 
If there ever was a time when I felt unwilling that you should have a sorrow or anxiety which I could not share , it is now . 
'You have had sorrow enough , child , said my aunt , affectionately , 'without the addition of my little miseries . 
I could have no other motive , Trot , in keeping anything from you . 
'I know that well , said I. 'But tell me now . 
'Would you ride with me a little way tomorrow morning ? asked my aunt . 
'At nine , said she . 
'I'll tell you then , my dear . 
At nine , accordingly , we went out in a little chariot , and drove to London . 
We drove a long way through the streets , until we came to one of the large hospitals . 
Standing hard by the building was a plain hearse . 
The driver recognized my aunt , and , in obedience to a motion of her hand at the window , drove slowly off we following . 
'You understand it now , Trot , said my aunt . 
'He is gone ! 'Did he die in the hospital ? 'Yes . 
She sat immovable beside me but , again I saw the stray tears on her face . 
'He was there once before , said my aunt presently . 
'He was ailing a long time a shattered , broken man , these many years . 
When he knew his state in this last illness , he asked them to send for me . 
'You went , I know , aunt . 
I was with him a good deal afterwards . 
'He died the night before we went to Canterbury ? said I. My aunt nodded . 
'No one can harm him now , she said . 
'It was a vain threat . 
We drove away , out of town , to the churchyard at Hornsey . 
'Better here than in the streets , said my aunt . 
We alighted and followed the plain coffin to a corner I remember well , where the service was read consigning it to the dust . 
'Six and thirty years ago , this day , my dear , said my aunt , as we walked back to the chariot , 'I was married . 
God forgive us all ! We took our seats in silence and so she sat beside me for a long time , holding my hand . 
At length she suddenly burst into tears , and said 'He was a fine looking man when I married him , Trot and he was sadly changed ! It did not last long . 
After the relief of tears , she soon became composed , and even cheerful . 
Her nerves were a little shaken , she said , or she would not have given way to it . 
, in another cause of HEEP V. MICAWBER , and the defendant in that cause is the prey of the sheriff having legal jurisdiction in this bailiwick . 
, my course is run . 
, has paid the debt and costs , in the noble name of Miss Trotwood and that myself and family are at the height of earthly bliss . 
For years after it occurred , I dreamed of it often . 
I have started up so vividly impressed by it , that its fury has yet seemed raging in my quiet room , in the still night . 
I dream of it sometimes , though at lengthened and uncertain intervals , to this hour . 
I have an association between it and a stormy wind , or the lightest mention of a sea shore , as strong as any of which my mind is conscious . 
As plainly as I behold what happened , I will try to write it down . 
I do not recall it , but see it done for it happens again before me . 
but Emily I never saw . 
One evening when the time was close at hand , I was alone with Peggotty and her brother . 
Our conversation turned on Ham . 
She described to us how tenderly he had taken leave of her , and how manfully and quietly he had borne himself . 
Most of all , of late , when she believed he was most tried . 
MY aunt and I were at that time vacating the two cottages at Highgate I intending to go abroad , and she to return to her house at Dover . 
We had a temporary lodging in Covent Garden . 
She might desire , I thought , after receiving my communication , to send some parting word by me to her unhappy lover . 
I ought to give her the opportunity . 
I therefore sat down in my room , before going to bed , and wrote to her . 
I told her that I had seen him , and that he had requested me to tell her what I have already written in its place in these sheets . 
I had no need to enlarge upon it , if I had had the right . 
Its deep fidelity and goodness were not to be adorned by me or any man . 
I left it out , to be sent round in the morning with a line to Mr. Peggotty , requesting him to give it to her and went to bed at daybreak . 
I was weaker than I knew then and , not falling asleep until the sun was up , lay late , and unrefreshed , next day . 
I was roused by the silent presence of my aunt at my bedside . 
I felt it in my sleep , as I suppose we all do feel such things . 
'Trot , my dear , she said , when I opened my eyes , 'I couldn't make up my mind to disturb you . 
Mr. Peggotty is here shall he come up ? I replied yes , and he soon appeared . 
'Have you read it ? said I. He nodded sorrowfully . 
I opened it , and read as follows 'I have got your message . 
Oh , what can I write , to thank you for your good and blessed kindness to me ! 'I have put the words close to my heart . 
I shall keep them till I die . 
They are sharp thorns , but they are such comfort . 
I have prayed over them , oh , I have prayed so much . 
When I find what you are , and what uncle is , I think what God must be , and can cry to him . 
Now , my dear , my friend , good bye for ever in this world . 
In another world , if I am forgiven , I may wake a child and come to you . 
This , blotted with tears , was the letter . 
'Unquestionably , said I 'but I am thinking 'Yes , Mas'r Davy ? 'I am thinking , said I , 'that I'll go down again to Yarmouth . 
There's time , and to spare , for me to go and come back before the ship sails . 
I solemnly accepted his commission , dear good fellow , and cannot discharge it too completely . 
The journey is nothing to me . 
I am restless , and shall be better in motion . 
He went round to the coach office , at my request , and took the box seat for me on the mail . 
In the evening I started , by that conveyance , down the road I had traversed under so many vicissitudes . 
'Don't you think that , I asked the coachman , in the first stage out of London , 'a very remarkable sky ? I don't remember to have seen one like it . 
'Nor I not equal to it , he replied . 
There'll be mischief done at sea , I expect , before long . 
There had been a wind all day and it was rising then , with an extraordinary great sound . 
In another hour it had much increased , and the sky was more overcast , and blew hard . 
But , as the night advanced , the clouds closing in and densely over spreading the whole sky , then very dark , it came on to blow , harder and harder . 
It still increased , until our horses could scarcely face the wind . 
, the leaders turned about , or came to a dead stop and we were often in serious apprehension that the coach would be blown over . 
When the day broke , it blew harder and harder . 
I had been in Yarmouth when the seamen said it blew great guns , but I had never known the like of this , or anything approaching to it . 
Still , there was no abatement in the storm , but it blew harder . 
As we struggled on , nearer and nearer to the sea , from which this mighty wind was blowing dead on shore , its force became more and more terrific . 
Long before we saw the sea , its spray was on our lips , and showered salt rain upon us . 
When we came within sight of the sea , the waves on the horizon , caught at intervals above the rolling abyss , were like glimpses of another shore with towers and buildings . 
As the high watery walls came rolling in , and , at their highest , tumbled into surf , they looked as if the least would engulf the town . 
As the receding wave swept back with a hoarse roar , it seemed to scoop out deep caves in the beach , as if its purpose were to undermine the earth . 
It was shut and as no one answered to my knocking , I went , by back ways and by lanes , to the yard where he worked . 
I went back to the inn and when I had washed and dressed , and tried to sleep , but in vain , it was five o'clock in the afternoon . 
I was seriously affected , without knowing how much , by late events and my long exposure to the fierce wind had confused me . 
There was that jumble in my thoughts and recollections , that I had lost the clear arrangement of time and distance . 
Thus , if I had gone out into the town , I should not have been surprised , I think , to encounter someone who I knew must be then in London . 
So to speak , there was in these respects a curious inattention in my mind . 
Yet it was busy , too , with all the remembrances the place naturally awakened and they were particularly distinct and vivid . 
In this state , the waiter's dismal intelligence about the ships immediately connected itself , without any effort of my volition , with my uneasiness about Ham . 
I was persuaded that I had an apprehension of his returning from Lowestoft by sea , and being lost . 
I hastily ordered my dinner , and went back to the yard . 
I was none too soon for the boat builder , with a lantern in his hand , was locking the yard gate . 
So sensible of this , beforehand , that I had really felt ashamed of doing what I was nevertheless impelled to do , I went back to the inn . 
If such a wind could rise , I think it was rising . 
But there was now a great darkness besides and that invested the storm with new terrors , real and fanciful . 
I could not eat , I could not sit still , I could not continue steadfast to anything . 
Something within me , faintly answering to the storm without , tossed up the depths of my memory and made a tumult in them . 
Yet , in all the hurry of my thoughts , wild running with the thundering sea , the storm , and my uneasiness regarding Ham were always in the fore ground . 
My dinner went away almost untasted , and I tried to refresh myself with a glass or two of wine . 
I fell into a dull slumber before the fire , without losing my consciousness , either of the uproar out of doors , or of the place in which I was . 
I walked to and fro , tried to read an old gazetteer , listened to the awful noises looked at faces , scenes , and figures in the fire . 
At length , the steady ticking of the undisturbed clock on the wall tormented me to that degree that I resolved to go to bed . 
It was reassuring , on such a night , to be told that some of the inn servants had agreed together to sit up until morning . 
At length , my restlessness attained to such a pitch , that I hurried on my clothes , and went downstairs . 
Once , I opened the yard gate , and looked into the empty street . 
I have an impression that for a long time , though I dreamed of being elsewhere and in a variety of scenes , it was always blowing in my dream . 
The thunder of the cannon was so loud and incessant , that I could not hear something I much desired to hear , until I made a great exertion and awoke . 
It was broad day eight or nine o'clock the storm raging , in lieu of the batteries and someone knocking and calling at my door . 
'What is the matter ? I cried . 
'A wreck ! Close by ! I sprung out of bed , and asked , what wreck ? 'A schooner , from Spain or Portugal , laden with fruit and wine . 
Make haste , sir , if you want to see her ! It's thought , down on the beach , she'll go to pieces every moment . 
The excited voice went clamouring along the staircase and I wrapped myself in my clothes as quickly as I could , and ran into the street . 
Numbers of people were there before me , all running in one direction , to the beach . 
I ran the same way , outstripping a good many , and soon came facing the wild sea . 
But the sea , having upon it the additional agitation of the whole night , was infinitely more terrific than when I had seen it last . 
The second mast was yet standing , with the rags of a rent sail , and a wild confusion of broken cordage flapping to and fro . 
The ship had struck once , the same boatman hoarsely said in my ear , and then lifted in and struck again . 
I understood him to add that she was parting amidships , and I could readily suppose so , for the rolling and beating were too tremendous for any human work to suffer long . 
Again we lost her , and again she rose . 
The agony on the shore increased . 
Men groaned , and clasped their hands women shrieked , and turned away their faces . 
Some ran wildly up and down along the beach , crying for help where no help could be . 
I found myself one of these , frantically imploring a knot of sailors whom I knew , not to let those two lost creatures perish before our eyes . 
I ran to him as well as I know , to repeat my appeal for help . 
'Mas'r Davy , he said , cheerily grasping me by both hands , 'if my time is come , 'tis come . 
If 'tan't , I'll bide it . 
The wreck , even to my unpractised eye , was breaking up . 
I saw that she was parting in the middle , and that the life of the solitary man upon the mast hung by a thread . 
Still , he clung to it . 
I saw him do it now , and thought I was going distracted , when his action brought an old remembrance to my mind of a once dear friend . 
I saw blood on his face , from where I stood but he took no thought of that . 
He seemed hurriedly to give them some directions for leaving him more free or so I judged from the motion of his arm and was gone as before . 
The distance was nothing , but the power of the sea and wind made the strife deadly . 
At length he neared the wreck . 
Consternation was in every face . 
They drew him to my very feet insensible dead . 
I asked him , terror stricken , leaning on the arm he held out to support me 'Has a body come ashore ? He said , 'Yes . 
'Do I know it ? I asked then . 
But he led me to the shore . 
All the men who carried him had known him , and gone sailing with him , and seen him merry and bold . 
They carried him through the wild roar , a hush in the midst of all the tumult and took him to the cottage where Death was already . 
But when they set the bier down on the threshold , they looked at one another , and at me , and whispered . 
They felt as if it were not right to lay him down in the same quiet room . 
We went into the town , and took our burden to the inn . 
I chose the night for the journey , that there might be less curiosity when I left the town . 
But , although it was nearly midnight when I came out of the yard in a chaise , followed by what I had in charge , there were many people waiting . 
The house , when I came up to it , looked just the same . 
Not a blind was raised no sign of life was in the dull paved court , with its covered way leading to the disused door . 
The wind had quite gone down , and nothing moved . 
The little parlour maid came out , with the key in her hand and looking earnestly at me as she unlocked the gate , said 'I beg your pardon , sir . 
Are you ill ? 'I have been much agitated , and am fatigued . 
'Is anything the matter , sir ? Mr. James ? 'Hush ! said I. 'Yes , something has happened , that I have to break to Mrs. Steerforth . 
Her mistress was up , she said , and Miss Dartle was with her . 
Its former pleasant air of occupation was gone , and the shutters were half closed . 
The harp had not been used for many and many a day . 
His picture , as a boy , was there . 
The cabinet in which his mother had kept his letters was there . 
I wondered if she ever read them now if she would ever read them more ! The house was so still that I heard the girl's light step upstairs . 
In a few moments I stood before her . 
She was in his room not in her own . 
At her chair , as usual , was Rosa Dartle . 
From the first moment of her dark eyes resting on me , I saw she knew I was the bearer of evil tidings . 
The scar sprung into view that instant . 
She withdrew herself a step behind the chair , to keep her own face out of Mrs. Steerforth's observation and scrutinized me with a piercing gaze that never faltered , never shrunk . 
'I am sorry to observe you are in mourning , sir , said Mrs. Steerforth . 
'I am unhappily a widower , said I. 'You are very young to know so great a loss , she returned . 
'I am grieved to hear it . 
I am grieved to hear it . 
I hope Time will be good to you . 
'I hope Time , said I , looking at her , 'will be good to all of us . 
Dear Mrs. Steerforth , we must all trust to that , in our heaviest misfortunes . 
The earnestness of my manner , and the tears in my eyes , alarmed her . 
The whole course of her thoughts appeared to stop , and change . 
I tried to command my voice in gently saying his name , but it trembled . 
She repeated it to herself , two or three times , in a low tone . 
Then , addressing me , she said , with enforced calmness 'My son is ill . 
'You have seen him ? 'I have . 
The handsome lady so like , oh so like ! regarded me with a fixed look , and put her hand to her forehead . 
'When I was last here , I faltered , 'Miss Dartle told me he was sailing here and there . 
The night before last was a dreadful one at sea . 
Her eyes gleamed like fire as she confronted his mother , and broke into a frightful laugh . 
Always accompanied with an incapable motion of the head , but with no change of face . 
Always proceeding from a rigid mouth and closed teeth , as if the jaw were locked and the face frozen up in pain . 
'Do you remember when he did this ? she proceeded . 
'For Heaven's sake 'I WILL speak ! she said , turning on me with her lightning eyes . 
'You , resent his self will ! she exclaimed . 
'I could have loved him , and asked no return . 
If I had been his wife , I could have been the slave of his caprices for a word of love a year . 
Who knows it better than I ? You were exacting , proud , punctilious , selfish . 
My love would have been devoted would have trod your paltry whimpering under foot ! With flashing eyes , she stamped upon the ground as if she actually did it . 
'Look here ! she said , striking the scar again , with a relentless hand . 
When he was freshest and truest , he loved me . 
When he grew weary , I grew weary . 
We fell away from one another without a word . 
Perhaps you saw it , and were not sorry . 
Since then , I have been a mere disfigured piece of furniture between you both having no eyes , no ears , no feelings , no remembrances . 
Moan ? Moan for what you made him not for your love . 
'Miss Dartle , said I , 'if you can be so obdurate as not to feel for this afflicted mother 'Who feels for me ? she sharply retorted . 
Let her moan for the harvest that she reaps today ! 'And if his faults I began . 
'Faults ! she cried , bursting into passionate tears . 
Motionless , rigid , staring moaning in the same dumb way from time to time , with the same helpless motion of the head but giving no other sign of life . 
Miss Dartle suddenly kneeled down before it , and began to loosen the dress . 
'A curse upon you ! she said , looking round at me , with a mingled expression of rage and grief . 
No longer afraid of leaving her , I noiselessly turned back again and alarmed the house as I went out . 
Later in the day , I returned , and we laid him in his mother's room . 
I went through the dreary house , and darkened the windows . 
The windows of the chamber where he lay , I darkened last . 
I lifted up the leaden hand , and held it to my heart and all the world seemed death and silence , broken only by his mother's moaning . 
CHAPTER THE EMIGRANTS One thing more , I had to do , before yielding myself to the shock of these emotions . 
It was , to conceal what had occurred , from those who were going away and to dismiss them on their voyage in happy ignorance . 
In this , no time was to be lost . 
I took Mr. Micawber aside that same night , and confided to him the task of standing between Mr. Peggotty and intelligence of the late catastrophe . 
He zealously undertook to do so , and to intercept any newspaper through which it might , without such precautions , reach him . 
One might have supposed him a child of the wilderness , long accustomed to live out of the confines of civilization , and about to return to his native wilds . 
He had provided himself , among other things , with a complete suit of oilskin , and a straw hat with a very low crown , pitched or caulked on the outside . 
His whole family , if I may so express it , were cleared for action . 
like a bundle , and was secured behind at the waist , in a strong knot . 
Miss Micawber I found made snug for stormy weather , in the same manner with nothing superfluous about her . 
Master Micawber was hardly visible in a Guernsey shirt , and the shaggiest suit of slops I ever saw and the children were done up , like preserved meats , in impervious cases . 
It was here that I took Mr. Micawber aside , and received his promise . 
The family , as emigrants , being objects of some interest in and about Hungerford , attracted so many beholders , that we were glad to take refuge in their room . 
It was one of the wooden chambers upstairs , with the tide flowing underneath . 
My aunt and Agnes were there , busily making some little extra comforts , in the way of dress , for the children . 
Peggotty was quietly assisting , with the old insensible work box , yard measure , and bit of wax candle before her , that had now outlived so much . 
It was not easy to answer her inquiries still less to whisper Mr. Peggotty , when Mr. Micawber brought him in , that I had given the letter , and all was well . 
But I did both , and made them happy . 
If I showed any trace of what I felt , my own sorrows were sufficient to account for it . 
'And when does the ship sail , Mr. Micawber ? asked my aunt . 
Mr. Micawber considered it necessary to prepare either my aunt or his wife , by degrees , and said , sooner than he had expected yesterday . 
'The boat brought you word , I suppose ? said my aunt . 
'It did , ma'am , he returned . 
'Well ? said my aunt . 
'And she sails 'Madam , he replied , 'I am informed that we must positively be on board before seven tomorrow morning . 
'Heyday ! said my aunt , 'that's soon . 
Is it a sea going fact , Mr. Peggotty ? ''Tis so , ma'am . 
She'll drop down the river with that theer tide . 
If Mas'r Davy and my sister comes aboard at Gravesen' , arternoon o' next day , they'll see the last on us . 
Peggotty and myself will constantly keep a double look out together , on our goods and chattels . 
I allude to in short , Punch . 
'And I too ! said Agnes , with a smile . 
Mr. Micawber immediately descended to the bar , where he appeared to be quite at home and in due time returned with a steaming jug . 
'The luxuries of the old country , said Mr. Micawber , with an intense satisfaction in their renouncement , 'we abandon . 
The denizens of the forest cannot , of course , expect to participate in the refinements of the land of the Free . 
Here , a boy came in to say that Mr. Micawber was wanted downstairs . 
'The loss , Micawber , observed his wife , 'has been my family's , not yours . 
'My dear , he returned , 'so be it ! 'If not for their sakes for mine , Micawber , said his wife . 
'Emma , he returned , 'that view of the question is , at such a moment , irresistible . 
At length the same boy reappeared , and presented me with a note written in pencil , and headed , in a legal manner , 'Heep v . 
He also requested , as a last act of friendship , that I would see his family to the Parish Workhouse , and forget that such a Being ever lived . 
This momentous pocket book was a timely reminder to him of another transaction . 
, he took out of it a large sheet of paper , folded small , and quite covered with long sums , carefully worked . 
From the glimpse I had of them , I should say that I never saw such sums out of a school ciphering book . 
These , it seemed , were calculations of compound interest on what he called 'the principal amount of forty one , ten , eleven and a half' , for various periods . 
'I have still a presentiment , said Mrs. Micawber , pensively shaking her head , 'that my family will appear on board , before we finally depart . 
Mr. Micawber evidently had his presentiment on the subject too , but he put it in his tin pot and swallowed it . 
'If you have any opportunity of sending letters home , on your passage , Mrs. Micawber , said my aunt , 'you must let us hear from you , you know . 
'My dear Miss Trotwood , she replied , 'I shall only be too happy to think that anyone expects to hear from us . 
I shall not fail to correspond . 
'Please Heaven , there will be many such opportunities , said Mr. Micawber . 
'The ocean , in these times , is a perfect fleet of ships and we can hardly fail to encounter many , in running over . 
It is merely crossing , said Mr. Micawber , trifling with his eye glass , 'merely crossing . 
The distance is quite imaginary . 
When Mrs. Micawber has her sea legs on an expression in which I hope there is no conventional impropriety she will give them , I dare say , Little Tafflin . 
Porpoises and dolphins , I believe , will be frequently observed athwart our Bows and , either on the starboard or the larboard quarter , objects of interest will be continually descried . 
What I chiefly hope , my dear Mr. Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , 'is , that in some branches of our family we may live again in the old country . 
Do not frown , Micawber ! I do not now refer to my own family , but to our children's children . 
'My dear , said Mr. Micawber , 'Britannia must take her chance . 
I am bound to say that she has never done much for me , and that I have no particular wish upon the subject . 
'Micawber , returned Mrs. Micawber , 'there , you are wrong . 
You are going out , Micawber , to this distant clime , to strengthen , not to weaken , the connexion between yourself and Albion . 
'Micawber , returned Mrs. Micawber . 
'There , I again say , you are wrong . 
You do not know your power , Micawber . 
It is that which will strengthen , even in this step you are about to take , the connexion between yourself and Albion . 
Mr. Micawber sat in his elbow chair , with his eyebrows raised half receiving and half repudiating Mrs. Micawber's views as they were stated , but very sensible of their foresight . 
'My dear Mr. Copperfield , said Mrs. Micawber , 'I wish Mr. Micawber to feel his position . 
It appears to me highly important that Mr. Micawber should , from the hour of his embarkation , feel his position . 
Your old knowledge of me , my dear Mr. Copperfield , will have told you that I have not the sanguine disposition of Mr. Micawber . 
My disposition is , if I may say so , eminently practical . 
I know that this is a long voyage . 
I know that it will involve many privations and inconveniences . 
I cannot shut my eyes to those facts . 
But I also know what Mr. Micawber is . 
I know the latent power of Mr. Micawber . 
And therefore I consider it vitally important that Mr. Micawber should feel his position . 
'My love , he observed , 'perhaps you will allow me to remark that it is barely possible that I DO feel my position at the present moment . 
'I think not , Micawber , she rejoined . 
My dear Mr. Copperfield , Mr. Micawber's is not a common case . 
Mr. Micawber is going to a distant country expressly in order that he may be fully understood and appreciated for the first time . 
They are mine ! Mr. Micawber , glancing at us all , seemed to think there was a good deal in this idea . 
'I wish Mr. Micawber , if I make myself understood , said Mrs. Micawber , in her argumentative tone , 'to be the Caesar of his own fortunes . 
That , my dear Mr. Copperfield , appears to me to be his true position . 
From the first moment of this voyage , I wish Mr. Micawber to stand upon that vessel's prow and say , Enough of delay enough of disappointment enough of limited means . 
That was in the old country . 
Bring it forward ! Mr. Micawber folded his arms in a resolute manner , as if he were then stationed on the figure head . 
Mrs. Micawber's conviction that her arguments were unanswerable , gave a moral elevation to her tone which I think I had never heard in it before . 
'And therefore it is , said Mrs. Micawber , 'that I the more wish , that , at a future period , we may live again on the parent soil . 
I am always willing to defer to your good sense . 
What will be will be . 
Even the children were instructed , each to dip a wooden spoon into Mr. Micawber's pot , and pledge us in its contents . 
When this was done , my aunt and Agnes rose , and parted from the emigrants . 
It was a sorrowful farewell . 
I went down again next morning to see that they were away . 
They had departed , in a boat , as early as five o'clock . 
In the afternoon of the next day , my old nurse and I went down to Gravesend . 
We found the ship in the river , surrounded by a crowd of boats a favourable wind blowing the signal for sailing at her mast head . 
I hired a boat directly , and we put off to her and getting through the little vortex of confusion of which she was the centre , went on board . 
Mr. Peggotty was waiting for us on deck . 
at the suit of Heep , and that , in compliance with a request I had made to him , he had paid the money , which I repaid him . 
'Is there any last wured , Mas'r Davy ? said he . 
'Heaven bless you , you good man ! cried I. 'You take her with you ! She answered for him , with a burst of tears . 
The ship was clearing fast of strangers . 
The greatest trial that I had , remained . 
I told him what the noble spirit that was gone , had given me in charge to say at parting . 
But when he charged me , in return , with many messages of affection and regret for those deaf ears , he moved me more . 
I embraced him , took my weeping nurse upon my arm , and hurried away . 
On deck , I took leave of poor Mrs. Micawber . 
She was looking distractedly about for her family , even then and her last words to me were , that she never would desert Mr. Micawber . 
We went over the side into our boat , and lay at a little distance , to see the ship wafted on her course . 
It was then calm , radiant sunset . 
She lay between us , and the red light and every taper line and spar was visible against the glow . 
Silent , only for a moment . 
He pointed to us with an eager hand and she saw us , and waved her last good bye to me . 
The night had fallen on the Kentish hills when we were rowed ashore and fallen darkly upon me . 
I went away from England not knowing , even then , how great the shock was , that I had to bear . 
I left all who were dear to me , and went away and believed that I had borne it , and it was past . 
The knowledge came upon me , not quickly , but little by little , and grain by grain . 
The desolate feeling with which I went abroad , deepened and widened hourly . 
At first it was a heavy sense of loss and sorrow , wherein I could distinguish little else . 
If my grief were selfish , I did not know it to be so . 
I mourned for my child wife , taken from her blooming world , so young . 
I mourned for him who might have won the love and admiration of thousands , as he had won mine long ago . 
From the accumulated sadness into which I fell , I had at length no hope of ever issuing again . 
I roamed from place to place , carrying my burden with me everywhere . 
I felt its whole weight now and I drooped beneath it , and I said in my heart that it could never be lightened . 
When this despondency was at its worst , I believed that I should die . 
Sometimes , I thought that I would like to die at home and actually turned back on my road , that I might get there soon . 
At other times , I passed on farther away , from city to city , seeking I know not what , and trying to leave I know not what behind . 
It is not in my power to retrace , one by one , all the weary phases of distress of mind through which I passed . 
Listlessness to everything , but brooding sorrow , was the night that fell on my undisciplined heart . 
Let me look up from it as at last I did , thank Heaven ! and from its long , sad , wretched dream , to dawn . 
For many months I travelled with this ever darkening cloud upon my mind . 
Some blind reasons that I had for not returning home reasons then struggling within me , vainly , for more distinct expression kept me on my pilgrimage . 
Sometimes , I had proceeded restlessly from place to place , stopping nowhere sometimes , I had lingered long in one spot . 
I had had no purpose , no sustaining soul within me , anywhere . 
I had come out of Italy , over one of the great passes of the Alps , and had since wandered with a guide among the by ways of the mountains . 
If those awful solitudes had spoken to my heart , I did not know it . 
I came , one evening before sunset , down into a valley , where I was to rest . 
I remember pausing once , with a kind of sorrow that was not all oppressive , not quite despairing . 
I remember almost hoping that some better change was possible within me . 
I came into the valley , as the evening sun was shining on the remote heights of snow , that closed it in , like eternal clouds . 
Above these , were range upon range of craggy steeps , grey rock , bright ice , and smooth verdure specks of pasture , all gradually blending with the crowning snow . 
Dotted here and there on the mountain's side , each tiny dot a home , were lonely wooden cottages , so dwarfed by the towering heights that they appeared too small for toys . 
So did even the clustered village in the valley , with its wooden bridge across the stream , where the stream tumbled over broken rocks , and roared away among the trees . 
Other packets had missed me , and I had received none for a long time . 
The packet was in my hand . 
I opened it , and read the writing of Agnes . 
She was happy and useful , was prospering as she had hoped . 
That was all she told me of herself . 
The rest referred to me . 
She gave me no advice she urged no duty on me she only told me , in her own fervent manner , what her trust in me was . 
how such a nature as mine would turn affliction to good . 
She knew how trial and emotion would exalt and strengthen it . 
She was sure that in my every purpose I should gain a firmer and a higher tendency , through the grief I had undergone . 
She , who so gloried in my fame , and so looked forward to its augmentation , well knew that I would labour on . 
She knew that in me , sorrow could not be weakness , but must be strength . 
I read her letter many times . 
I wrote to her before I slept . 
In three months more , a year would have passed since the beginning of my sorrow . 
I determined to make no resolutions until the expiration of those three months , but to try . 
I lived in that valley , and its neighbourhood , all the time . 
I resorted humbly whither Agnes had commended me I sought out Nature , never sought in vain and I admitted to my breast the human interest I had lately shrunk from . 
I worked early and late , patiently and hard . 
After some rest and change , I fell to work , in my old ardent way , on a new fancy , which took strong possession of me . 
As I advanced in the execution of this task , I felt it more and more , and roused my utmost energies to do it well . 
This was my third work of fiction . 
It was not half written , when , in an interval of rest , I thought of returning home . 
For a long time , though studying and working patiently , I had accustomed myself to robust exercise . 
My health , severely impaired when I left England , was quite restored . 
I had been in many countries , and I hope I had improved my store of knowledge . 
I have now recalled all that I think it needful to recall here , of this term of absence with one reservation . 
I have made it , thus far , with no purpose of suppressing any of my thoughts for , as I have elsewhere said , this narrative is my written memory . 
I have desired to keep the most secret current of my mind apart , and to the last . 
I enter on it now . 
I cannot so completely penetrate the mystery of my own heart , as to know when I began to think that I might have set its earliest and brightest hopes on Agnes . 
I cannot say at what stage of my grief it first became associated with the reflection , that , in my wayward boyhood , I had thrown away the treasure of her love . 
I believe I may have heard some whisper of that distant thought , in the old unhappy loss or want of something never to be realized , of which I had been sensible . 
But the thought came into my mind as a new reproach and new regret , when I was left so sad and lonely in the world . 
If , at that time , I had been much with her , I should , in the weakness of my desolation , have betrayed this . 
It was what I remotely dreaded when I was first impelled to stay away from England . 
I could not have borne to lose the smallest portion of her sisterly affection yet , in that betrayal , I should have set a constraint between us hitherto unknown . 
I could not forget that the feeling with which she now regarded me had grown up in my own free choice and course . 
That if she had ever loved me with another love and I sometimes thought the time was when she might have done so I had cast it away . 
It was nothing , now , that I had accustomed myself to think of her , when we were both mere children , as one who was far removed from my wild fancies . 
But , as time wore on , this shadowy prospect faded , and departed from me . 
Whatever I might have been to her , or she to me , if I had been more worthy of her long ago , I was not now , and she was not . 
I had let it go by , and had deservedly lost her . 
Thus , through the reflection that it might have been , I arrived at the conviction that it could never be . 
These , with their perplexities and inconsistencies , were the shifting quicksands of my mind , from the time of my departure to the time of my return home , three years afterwards . 
Long in the aggregate , though short as they went by . 
And home was very dear to me , and Agnes too but she was not mine she was never to be mine . 
She might have been , but that was past ! CHAPTER RETURN I landed in London on a wintry autumn evening . 
It was dark and raining , and I saw more fog and mud in a minute than I had seen in a year . 
I have often remarked I suppose everybody has that one's going away from a familiar place , would seem to be the signal for change in it . 
For some changes in the fortunes of my friends , I was prepared . 
My aunt had long been re established at Dover , and Traddles had begun to get into some little practice at the Bar , in the very first term after my departure . 
They expected me home before Christmas but had no idea of my returning so soon . 
I had purposely misled them , that I might have the pleasure of taking them by surprise . 
And yet , I was perverse enough to feel a chill and disappointment in receiving no welcome , and rattling , alone and silent , through the misty streets . 
'Do you know where Mr. Traddles lives in the Inn ? I asked the waiter , as I warmed myself by the coffee room fire . 
Traddles , said the spare waiter . 
'Number two in the Court . 
The potential waiter waved him away , and turned , gravely , to me . 
I felt quite apologetic for Traddles . 
'He's a young man , sure ? said the portentous waiter , fixing his eyes severely on me . 
He asked me what I would have for dinner ? I felt I was in England again , and really was quite cast down on Traddles's account . 
There seemed to be no hope for him . 
I meekly ordered a bit of fish and a steak , and stood before the fire musing on his obscurity . 
It had such a prescriptive , stiff necked , long established , solemn , elderly air . 
I had seen nothing like this since I went away , and it quite dashed my hopes for my friend . 
The chief waiter had had enough of me . 
By this time , I quite gave Traddles up for lost and settled in my own mind that there was no hope for him . 
A crazy old staircase I found it to be , feebly lighted on each landing by a club headed little oil wick , dying away in a little dungeon of dirty glass . 
Groping my way more carefully , for the rest of the journey , my heart beat high when I found the outer door , which had Mr. TRADDLES painted on it , open . 
A considerable scuffling within ensued , but nothing else . 
'Is Mr. Traddles within ? I said . 
'Yes , sir , but he's engaged . 
'I want to see him . 
, seated at a table , and bending over papers . 
'Good God ! cried Traddles , looking up . 
'It's Copperfield ! and rushed into my arms , where I held him tight . 
'All well , my dear Traddles ? 'All well , my dear , dear Copperfield , and nothing but good news ! We cried with pleasure , both of us . 
I was quite unable to speak , at first . 
'My dear fellow ! said Traddles . 
'Didn't you get my last letter ? 'Certainly not , if it referred to any ceremony . 
'Lord bless me , yes , ! said Traddles 'by the Reverend Horace to Sophy down in Devonshire . 
I kissed her as an old acquaintance should , and wished them joy with all my might of heart . 
'We are all as happy as possible ! said Traddles . 
'Even the girls are happy . 
Dear me , I declare I forgot them ! 'Forgot ? said I. 'The girls , said Traddles . 
They are staying with us . 
They have come to have a peep at London . 
The fact is , when was it you that tumbled upstairs , Copperfield ? 'It was , said I , laughing . 
'Well then , when you tumbled upstairs , said Traddles , 'I was romping with the girls . 
In point of fact , we were playing at Puss in the Corner . 
But as that wouldn't do in Westminster Hall , and as it wouldn't look quite professional if they were seen by a client , they decamped . 
And they are now listening , I have no doubt , said Traddles , glancing at the door of another room . 
'I am sorry , said I , laughing afresh , 'to have occasioned such a dispersion . 
My love , will you fetch the girls ? Sophy tripped away , and we heard her received in the adjoining room with a peal of laughter . 
'Really musical , isn't it , my dear Copperfield ? said Traddles . 
'It's very agreeable to hear . 
It quite lights up these old rooms . 
To an unfortunate bachelor of a fellow who has lived alone all his life , you know , it's positively delicious . 
The society of girls is a very delightful thing , Copperfield . 
It's not professional , but it's very delightful . 
'But then , said Traddles , 'our domestic arrangements are , to say the truth , quite unprofessional altogether , my dear Copperfield . 
Even Sophy's being here , is unprofessional . 
And we have no other place of abode . 
We have put to sea in a cockboat , but we are quite prepared to rough it . 
And Sophy's an extraordinary manager ! You'll be surprised how those girls are stowed away . 
I am sure I hardly know how it's done ! 'Are many of the young ladies with you ? I inquired . 
'The eldest , the Beauty is here , said Traddles , in a low confidential voice , 'Caroline . 
And Sarah's here the one I mentioned to you as having something the matter with her spine , you know . 
Immensely better ! And the two youngest that Sophy educated are with us . 
'Indeed ! cried I. 'Yes , said Traddles . 
'Now the whole set I mean the chambers is only three rooms but Sophy arranges for the girls in the most wonderful way , and they sleep as comfortably as possible . 
Three in that room , said Traddles , pointing . 
I could not help glancing round , in search of the accommodation remaining for Mr. and Mrs. Traddles . 
'Well ! said Traddles , 'we are prepared to rough it , as I said just now , and we did improvise a bed last week , upon the floor here . 
But there's a little room in the roof a very nice room , when you're up there which Sophy papered herself , to surprise me and that's our room at present . 
It's a capital little gipsy sort of place . 
There's quite a view from it . 
'Yes , I am as happy as it's possible to be . 
And as to plate , Lord bless you , we haven't so much as a tea spoon . 
'All to be earned ? said I , cheerfully . 
'Exactly so , replied Traddles , 'all to be earned . 
Of course we have something in the shape of tea spoons , because we stir our tea . 
'The silver will be the brighter when it comes , said I. 'The very thing we say ! cried Traddles . 
'You see , my dear Copperfield , falling again into the low confidential tone , 'after I had delivered my argument in DOE dem . 
JIPES versus WIGZIELL , which did me great service with the profession , I went down into Devonshire , and had some serious conversation in private with the Reverend Horace . 
'But I am afraid I am wandering from the subject . 
He replied in a most admirable manner , exceedingly flattering to my feelings , and undertook to obtain the consent of Mrs. Crewler to this arrangement . 
They had a dreadful time of it with her . 
It mounted from her legs into her chest , and then into her head 'What mounted ? I asked . 
'Her grief , replied Traddles , with a serious look . 
As I mentioned on a former occasion , she is a very superior woman , but has lost the use of her limbs . 
However , they brought her through it by unremitting and affectionate attention and we were married yesterday six weeks . 
I had a delightful letter from her , only this morning . 
'And in short , my dear friend , said I , 'you feel as blest as you deserve to feel ! 'Oh ! That's your partiality ! laughed Traddles . 
'But , indeed , I am in a most enviable state . 
I work hard , and read Law insatiably . 
I get up at five every morning , and don't mind it at all . 
I hide the girls in the daytime , and make merry with them in the evening . 
And I assure you I am quite sorry that they are going home on Tuesday , which is the day before the first day of Michaelmas Term . 
After that , he retired for the night , shutting the outer door upon us with a bang . 
Mrs. Traddles , with perfect pleasure and composure beaming from her household eyes , having made the tea , then quietly made the toast as she sat in a corner by the fire . 
She had seen Agnes , she told me while she was toasting . 
'Tom' had never had me out of his thoughts , she really believed , all the time I had been away . 
'Tom' was the authority for everything . 
The deference which both she and Traddles showed towards the Beauty , pleased me very much . 
I don't know that I thought it very reasonable but I thought it very delightful , and essentially a part of their character . 
If Traddles ever for an instant missed the tea spoons that were still to be won , I have no doubt it was when he handed the Beauty her tea . 
If his sweet tempered wife could have got up any self assertion against anyone , I am satisfied it could only have been because she was the Beauty's sister . 
If she had been born a Queen Bee , and they labouring Bees , they could not have been more satisfied of that . 
But their self forgetfulness charmed me . 
Their pride in these girls , and their submission of themselves to all their whims , was the pleasantest little testimony to their own worth I could have desired to see . 
Neither could they do anything without Sophy . 
Somebody's hair fell down , and nobody but Sophy could put it up . 
Somebody forgot how a particular tune went , and nobody but Sophy could hum that tune right . 
Somebody wanted to recall the name of a place in Devonshire , and only Sophy knew it . 
Something was wanted to be written home , and Sophy alone could be trusted to write before breakfast in the morning . 
Somebody broke down in a piece of knitting , and no one but Sophy was able to put the defaulter in the right direction . 
They were entire mistresses of the place , and Sophy and Traddles waited on them . 
, so that I was quite fascinated . 
The best of all was , that , in the midst of their exactions , all the sisters had a great tenderness and respect both for Sophy and Traddles . 
Altogether , it was a scene I could not help dwelling on with pleasure , for a long time after I got back and had wished Traddles good night . 
If I had beheld a thousand roses blowing in a top set of chambers , in that withered Gray's Inn , they could not have brightened it half so much . 
Somehow , I found that I had taken leave of Traddles for the night , and come back to the coffee house , with a great change in my despondency about him . 
I began to think he would get on , in spite of all the many orders of chief waiters in England . 
I could think of the past now , gravely , but not bitterly and could contemplate the future in a brave spirit . 
Home , in its best sense , was for me no more . 
She in whom I might have inspired a dearer love , I had taught to be my sister . 
She would marry , and would have new claimants on her tenderness and in doing it , would never know the love for her that had grown up in my heart . 
It was right that I should pay the forfeit of my headlong passion . 
What I reaped , I had sown . 
Little Mr. Chillip the Doctor , to whose good offices I was indebted in the very first chapter of this history , sat reading a newspaper in the shadow of an opposite corner . 
Mr. Chillip had left Blunderstone six or seven years ago , and I had never seen him since . 
He sat placidly perusing the newspaper , with his little head on one side , and a glass of warm sherry negus at his elbow . 
He was so extremely conciliatory in his manner that he seemed to apologize to the very newspaper for taking the liberty of reading it . 
I hope YOU are well . 
'And yet you knew it , long before I knew it myself , I returned . 
'Did I indeed , sir ? said Mr. Chillip . 
'Is it possible that I had the honour , sir , of officiating when ? 'Yes , said I. 'Dear me ! cried Mr. Chillip . 
Even now , he put his hand in his coat pocket as soon as he could disengage it , and seemed relieved when he had got it safe back . 
'Dear me , sir ! said Mr. Chillip , surveying me with his head on one side . 
'And it's Mr. Copperfield , is it ? Well , sir , I think I should have known you , if I had taken the liberty of looking more closely at you . 
There's a strong resemblance between you and your poor father , sir . 
'I never had the happiness of seeing my father , I observed . 
'Very true , sir , said Mr. Chillip , in a soothing tone . 
There must be great excitement here , sir , said Mr. Chillip , tapping himself on the forehead with his forefinger . 
'You must find it a trying occupation , sir ! 'What is your part of the country now ? I asked , seating myself near him . 
'I am established within a few miles of Bury St . 
Edmund's , sir , said Mr. Chillip . 
My daughter is growing quite a tall lass now , sir , said Mr. Chillip , giving his little head another little shake . 
'Her mother let down two tucks in her frocks only last week . 
'Well , sir , he returned , in his slow way , 'it's more than I am accustomed to but I can't deny myself the pleasure of your conversation . 
It seems but yesterday that I had the honour of attending you in the measles . 
You came through them charmingly , sir ! I acknowledged this compliment , and ordered the negus , which was soon produced . 
'Quite an uncommon dissipation ! said Mr. Chillip , stirring it , 'but I can't resist so extraordinary an occasion . 
You have no family , sir ? I shook my head . 
'I was aware that you sustained a bereavement , sir , some time ago , said Mr. Chillip . 
'I heard it from your father in law's sister . 
Very decided character there , sir ? 'Why , yes , said I , 'decided enough . 
'Married a young lady of that part , with a very good little property , poor thing . 
And this action of the brain now , sir ? Don't you find it fatigue you ? said Mr. Chillip , looking at me like an admiring Robin . 
I waived that question , and returned to the Murdstones . 
'I was aware of his being married again . 
Do you attend the family ? I asked . 
I have been called in , he replied . 
'Strong phrenological developments of the organ of firmness , in Mr. Murdstone and his sister , sir . 
Still , I must say , they are very severe , sir both as to this life and the next . 
'She was a charming woman , sir ! he observed in a plaintive manner . 
And the ladies , observed Mr. Chillip , timorously , 'are great observers , sir . 
'I suppose she was to be subdued and broken to their detestable mould , Heaven help her ! said I. 'And she has been . 
'Well , sir , there were violent quarrels at first , I assure you , said Mr. Chillip 'but she is quite a shadow now . 
She was a lively young woman , sir , before marriage , and their gloom and austerity destroyed her . 
They go about with her , now , more like her keepers than her husband and sister in law . 
That was Mrs. Chillip's remark to me , only last week . 
And I assure you , sir , the ladies are great observers . 
religious still ? I inquired . 
'You anticipate , sir , said Mr. Chillip , his eyelids getting quite red with the unwonted stimulus in which he was indulging . 
'One of Mrs. Chillip's most impressive remarks . 
You might have knocked me down on the flat of my back , sir , with the feather of a pen , I assure you , when Mrs. Chillip said so . 
The ladies are great observers , sir ? 'Intuitively , said I , to his extreme delight . 
'I am very happy to receive such support in my opinion , sir , he rejoined . 
'It is not often that I venture to give a non medical opinion , I assure you . 
'I believe Mrs. Chillip to be perfectly right , said I. 'Mrs . 
Now , sir , about that brain of yours , if you'll excuse my returning to it . 
'And I assure you , sir , he said , 'I am extremely nervous on such occasions . 
I could not support being what is called Bullied , sir . 
It would quite unman me . 
The mere notion of the possibility of his ever seeing her again , appeared to terrify him . 
and was received by her , and Mr. Dick , and dear old Peggotty , who acted as housekeeper , with open arms and tears of joy . 
CHAPTER AGNES My aunt and I , when we were left alone , talked far into the night . 
Mr. Dick , as usual , was not forgotten . 
nobody but she could ever fully know what he was . 
'I mean to stay where I am . 
Then , I should ride , I said . 
I could not have come through Canterbury today without stopping , if I had been coming to anyone but her . 
Thoughtfully , for I could not be here once more , and so near Agnes , without the revival of those regrets with which I had so long been occupied . 
Softened regrets they might be , teaching me what I had failed to learn when my younger life was all before me , but not the less regrets . 
'Oh , Trot , I seemed to hear my aunt say once more and I understood her better now 'Blind , blind , blind ! We both kept silence for some minutes . 
When I raised my eyes , I found that she was steadily observant of me . 
Perhaps she had followed the current of my mind for it seemed to me an easy one to track now , wilful as it had been once . 
'You will find her father a white haired old man , said my aunt , 'though a better man in all other respects a reclaimed man . 
Neither will you find him measuring all human interests , and joys , and sorrows , with his one poor little inch rule now . 
Trust me , child , such things must shrink very much , before they can be measured off in that way . 
'Indeed they must , said I. 'You will find her , pursued my aunt , 'as good , as beautiful , as earnest , as disinterested , as she has always been . 
If I knew higher praise , Trot , I would bestow it on her . 
There was no higher praise for her no higher reproach for me . 
'Well ? Hey ? Any what ? said my aunt , sharply . 
'Any lover , said I. 'A score , cried my aunt , with a kind of indignant pride . 
'She might have married twenty times , my dear , since you have been gone ! 'No doubt , said I. 'No doubt . 
But has she any lover who is worthy of her ? Agnes could care for no other . 
My aunt sat musing for a little while , with her chin upon her hand . 
Slowly raising her eyes to mine , she said 'I suspect she has an attachment , Trot . 
'A prosperous one ? said I. 'Trot , returned my aunt gravely , 'I can't say . 
I have no right to tell you even so much . 
She has never confided it to me , but I suspect it . 
, that I felt now , more than ever , that she had followed my late thoughts . 
I summoned all the resolutions I had made , in all those many days and nights , and all those many conflicts of my heart . 
'If it should be so , I began , 'and I hope it is 'I don't know that it is , said my aunt curtly . 
'You must not be ruled by my suspicions . 
You must keep them secret . 
They are very slight , perhaps . 
I have no right to speak . 
'If it should be so , I repeated , 'Agnes will tell me at her own good time . 
A sister to whom I have confided so much , aunt , will not be reluctant to confide in me . 
My aunt withdrew her eyes from mine , as slowly as she had turned them upon me and covered them thoughtfully with her hand . 
By and by she put her other hand on my shoulder and so we both sat , looking into the past , without saying another word , until we parted for the night . 
I rode away , early in the morning , for the scene of my old school days . 
I cannot say that I was yet quite happy , in the hope that I was gaining a victory over myself even in the prospect of so soon looking on her face again . 
The well remembered ground was soon traversed , and I came into the quiet streets , where every stone was a boy's book to me . 
I went on foot to the old house , and went away with a heart too full to enter . 
Otherwise the staid old house was , as to its cleanliness and order , still just as it had been when I first saw it . 
, into the unchanged drawing room . 
All the little changes that had crept in when the Heeps were there , were changed again . 
Everything was as it used to be , in the happy time . 
The opening of the little door in the panelled wall made me start and turn . 
Her beautiful serene eyes met mine as she came towards me . 
She stopped and laid her hand upon her bosom , and I caught her in my arms . 
'Agnes ! my dear girl ! I have come too suddenly upon you . 
Presently we sat down , side by side and her angel face was turned upon me with the welcome I had dreamed of , waking and sleeping , for whole years . 
what an influence she had upon me but all my efforts were in vain . 
My love and joy were dumb . 
You have hardly ever told me of your own life , in all this lapse of time ! 'What should I tell ? she answered , with her radiant smile . 
You see us here , quiet in our own home our anxieties set at rest , our home restored to us and knowing that , dear Trotwood , you know all . 
'All , Agnes ? said I. She looked at me , with some fluttering wonder in her face . 
'Is there nothing else , Sister ? I said . 
Her colour , which had just now faded , returned , and faded again . 
She smiled with a quiet sadness , I thought and shook her head . 
I saw , however , that she was uneasy , and I let it pass . 
'You have much to do , dear Agnes ? 'With my school ? said she , looking up again , in all her bright composure . 
It is laborious , is it not ? 'The labour is so pleasant , she returned , 'that it is scarcely grateful in me to call it by that name . 
'Nothing good is difficult to you , said I. Her colour came and went once more and once more , as she bent her head , I saw the same sad smile . 
'You will wait and see papa , said Agnes , cheerfully , 'and pass the day with us ? Perhaps you will sleep in your own room ? We always call it yours . 
I could not do that , having promised to ride back to my aunt's at night but I would pass the day there , joyfully . 
'I must be a prisoner for a little while , said Agnes , 'but here are the old books , Trotwood , and the old music . 
'Even the old flowers are here , said I , looking round 'or the old kinds . 
'I have found a pleasure , returned Agnes , smiling , 'while you have been absent , in keeping everything as it used to be when we were children . 
For we were very happy then , I think . 
It was for me to guard this sisterly affection with religious care . 
It was all that I had left myself , and it was a treasure . 
If I once shook the foundations of the sacred confidence and usage , in virtue of which it was given to me , it was lost , and could never be recovered . 
I set this steadily before myself . 
The better I loved her , the more it behoved me never to forget it . 
Nothing seemed to have survived that time but Agnes and she , ever a star above me , was brighter and higher . 
I found him as my aunt had described him . 
We sat down to dinner , with some half dozen little girls and he seemed but the shadow of his handsome picture on the wall . 
The tranquillity and peace belonging , of old , to that quiet ground in my memory , pervaded it again . 
When dinner was done , Mr. Wickfield taking no wine , and I desiring none , we went up stairs where Agnes and her little charges sang and played , and worked . 
After tea the children left us and we three sat together , talking of the bygone days . 
'My part in them , said Mr. Wickfield , shaking his white head , 'has much matter for regret for deep regret , and deep contrition , Trotwood , you well know . 
But I would not cancel it , if it were in my power . 
I could readily believe that , looking at the face beside him . 
'I understand you , sir , I softly said . 
'I hold it I have always held it in veneration . 
'But no one knows , not even you , he returned , 'how much she has done , how much she has undergone , how hard she has striven . 
Dear Agnes ! She had put her hand entreatingly on his arm , to stop him and was very , very pale . 
'Well ! I have never told you , Trotwood , of her mother . 
Has anyone ? 'Never , sir . 
'It's not much though it was much to suffer . 
She married me in opposition to her father's wish , and he renounced her . 
She prayed him to forgive her , before my Agnes came into this world . 
He was a very hard man , and her mother had long been dead . 
Agnes leaned upon his shoulder , and stole her arm about his neck . 
'She had an affectionate and gentle heart , he said 'and it was broken . 
I knew its tender nature very well . 
No one could , if I did not . 
She loved me dearly , but was never happy . 
She left me Agnes , two weeks old and the grey hair that you recollect me with , when you first came . 
He kissed Agnes on her cheek . 
'My love for my dear child was a diseased love , but my mind was all unhealthy then . 
I say no more of that . 
I am not speaking of myself , Trotwood , but of her mother , and of her . 
If I give you any clue to what I am , or to what I have been , you will unravel it , I know . 
What Agnes is , I need not say . 
I have always read something of her poor mother's story , in her character and so I tell it you tonight , when we three are again together , after such great changes . 
I have told it all . 
His bowed head , and her angel face and filial duty , derived a more pathetic meaning from it than they had had before . 
If I had wanted anything by which to mark this night of our re union , I should have found it in this . 
Agnes rose up from her father's side , before long and going softly to her piano , played some of the old airs to which we had often listened in that place . 
'Have you any intention of going away again ? Agnes asked me , as I was standing by . 
'What does my sister say to that ? 'I hope not . 
'Then I have no such intention , Agnes . 
'I think you ought not , Trotwood , since you ask me , she said , mildly . 
'Your growing reputation and success enlarge your power of doing good and if I could spare my brother , with her eyes upon me , 'perhaps the time could not . 
'What I am , you have made me , Agnes . 
'I made you , Trotwood ? 'Yes ! Agnes , my dear girl ! I said , bending over her . 
'I tried to tell you , when we met today , something that has been in my thoughts since Dora died . 
You remember , when you came down to me in our little room pointing upward , Agnes ? 'Oh , Trotwood ! she returned , her eyes filled with tears . 
Ever pointing upward , Agnes ever leading me to something better ever directing me to higher things ! She only shook her head through her tears I saw the same sad quiet smile . 
'And I am so grateful to you for it , Agnes , so bound to you , that there is no name for the affection of my heart . 
You will always be my solace and resource , as you have always been . 
Then she went on softly playing , but without removing her eyes from me . 
, but was not so in you . 
She softly played on , looking at me still . 
As I rode back in the lonely night , the wind going by me like a restless memory , I thought of this , and feared she was not happy . 
That I truly devoted myself to it with my strongest earnestness , and bestowed upon it every energy of my soul , I have already said . 
If the books I have written be of any worth , they will supply the rest . 
I shall otherwise have written to poor purpose , and the rest will be of interest to no one . 
Occasionally , I went to London to lose myself in the swarm of life there , or to consult with Traddles on some business point . 
He had managed for me , in my absence , with the soundest judgement and my worldly affairs were prospering . 
, and pay me a percentage on the profits . 
But the secret soon came out . 
'Not like a lady's hand , is it ? said Traddles . 
'A lady's ! I repeated . 
Sophy was very much confused by my being told all this , and said that when 'Tom' was made a judge he wouldn't be so ready to proclaim it . 
Which 'Tom' denied averring that he should always be equally proud of it , under all circumstances . 
'What a thoroughly good and charming wife she is , my dear Traddles ! said I , when she had gone away , laughing . 
'You are a happy fellow . 
I believe you make yourselves , and each other , two of the happiest people in the world . 
'I am sure we ARE two of the happiest people , returned Traddles . 
'I admit that , at all events . 
'I positively sometimes can't believe it , said Traddles . 
And I am afraid there's a skeleton in a wig on the ledge of the desk . 
'From Creakle the schoolmaster ? exclaimed Traddles . 
He is not a schoolmaster now , Traddles . 
He is a Middlesex Magistrate . 
I thought Traddles might be surprised to hear it , but he was not so at all . 
'How do you suppose he comes to be a Middlesex Magistrate ? said I. 'Oh dear me ! replied Traddles , 'it would be very difficult to answer that question . 
What do you say ? 'To the system ? inquired Traddles , looking grave . 
To my accepting the offer , and your going with me ? 'I don't object , said Traddles . 
'Then I'll write to say so . 
this same Creakle turning his son out of doors , I suppose , and the life he used to lead his wife and daughter ? 'Perfectly , said Traddles . 
Traddles shrugged his shoulders , and was not at all surprised . 
I had not expected him to be , and was not surprised myself or my observation of similar practical satires would have been but scanty . 
We arranged the time of our visit , and I wrote accordingly to Mr. Creakle that evening . 
On the appointed day I think it was the next day , but no matter Traddles and I repaired to the prison where Mr. Creakle was powerful . 
It was an immense and solid building , erected at a vast expense . 
He received me , like a man who had formed my mind in bygone years , and had always loved me tenderly . 
On my introducing Traddles , Mr. Creakle expressed , in like manner , but in an inferior degree , that he had always been Traddles's guide , philosopher , and friend . 
Our venerable instructor was a great deal older , and not improved in appearance . 
His face was as fiery as ever his eyes were as small , and rather deeper set . 
The scanty , wet looking grey hair , by which I remembered him , was almost gone and the thick veins in his bald head were none the more agreeable to look at . 
, with the regularity and precision of clock work . 
Nobody appeared to have the least idea that there was any other system , but THE system , to be considered . 
And here again , I had great misgivings . 
I found as prevalent a fashion in the form of the penitence , as I had left outside in the forms of the coats and waistcoats in the windows of the tailors' shops . 
I found a great many foxes , disparaging whole vineyards of inaccessible grapes but I found very few foxes whom I would have trusted within reach of a bunch . 
, all prompted to these professions , and were all gratified by them . 
Twenty Eight , I understood , was also a bright particular star but it was his misfortune to have his glory a little dimmed by the extraordinary lustre of Twenty Seven . 
, that I became quite impatient to see him . 
I had to restrain my impatience for some time , on account of Twenty Seven being reserved for a concluding effect . 
There was such a rush of heads immediately , to see Number Twenty Seven reading his Hymn Book , that the little hole was blocked up , six or seven heads deep . 
I rather thought that everyone was struck by his not being proud , and taking notice of us . 
'Well , Twenty Seven , said Mr. Creakle , mournfully admiring him . 
'How do you find yourself today ? 'I am very umble , sir ! replied Uriah Heep . 
'You are always so , Twenty Seven , said Mr. Creakle . 
Here , another gentleman asked , with extreme anxiety 'Are you quite comfortable ? 'Yes , I thank you , sir ! said Uriah Heep , looking in that direction . 
'Far more comfortable here , than ever I was outside . 
I see my follies , now , sir . 
That's what makes me comfortable . 
I have committed follies , gentlemen , said Uriah , looking round with a meek smile , 'and I ought to bear the consequences without repining . 
, having subsided , Twenty Seven stood in the midst of us , as if he felt himself the principal object of merit in a highly meritorious museum . 
That we , the neophytes , might have an excess of light shining upon us all at once , orders were given to let out Twenty Eight . 
How has it been since ? 'I thank you , sir , said Mr. Littimer , 'it has been better made . 
It appeared to me that the gentleman in spectacles backed his Twenty Eight against Mr. Creakle's Twenty Seven , for each of them took his own man in hand . 
'What is your state of mind , Twenty Eight ? said the questioner in spectacles . 
'I thank you , sir , returned Mr. Littimer 'I see my follies now , sir . 
I am a good deal troubled when I think of the sins of my former companions , sir but I trust they may find forgiveness . 
'You are quite happy yourself ? said the questioner , nodding encouragement . 
'I am much obliged to you , sir , returned Mr. Littimer . 
'Is there anything at all on your mind now ? said the questioner . 
'If so , mention it , Twenty Eight . 
'Sir , said Mr. Littimer , without looking up , 'if my eyes have not deceived me , there is a gentleman present who was acquainted with me in my former life . 
I hope that gentleman will take warning , sir , and will not be offended at my freedom . 
It is for his good . 
I am conscious of my own past follies . 
I hope he may repent of all the wickedness and sin to which he has been a party . 
I observed that several gentlemen were shading their eyes , each with one hand , as if they had just come into church . 
'This does you credit , Twenty Eight , returned the questioner . 
'I should have expected it of you . 
'I have no doubt , Twenty Eight , returned the questioner , 'that the gentleman you refer to feels very strongly as we all must what you have so properly said . 
We will not detain you . 
'I thank you , sir , said Mr. Littimer . 
'Now , Twenty Seven , said Mr. Creakle , entering on a clear stage with his man , 'is there anything that anyone can do for you ? If so , mention it . 
'I would umbly ask , sir , returned Uriah , with a jerk of his malevolent head , 'for leave to write again to mother . 
'It shall certainly be granted , said Mr. Creakle . 
'Thank you , sir ! I am anxious about mother . 
I am afraid she ain't safe . 
Somebody incautiously asked , what from ? But there was a scandalized whisper of 'Hush ! 'Immortally safe , sir , returned Uriah , writhing in the direction of the voice . 
'I should wish mother to be got into my state . 
I never should have been got into my present state if I hadn't come here . 
I wish mother had come here . 
It would be better for everybody , if they got took up , and was brought here . 
This sentiment gave unbounded satisfaction greater satisfaction , I think , than anything that had passed yet . 
There's a deal of sin outside . 
There's a deal of sin in mother . 
There's nothing but sin everywhere except here . 
'You are quite changed ? said Mr. Creakle . 
'Oh dear , yes , sir ! cried this hopeful penitent . 
'You wouldn't relapse , if you were going out ? asked somebody else . 
'Oh de ar no , sir ! 'Well ! said Mr. Creakle , 'this is very gratifying . 
You have addressed Mr. Copperfield , Twenty Seven . 
Once , you struck me a blow in the face , you know . 
Several indignant glances directed at me . 
'But I forgive you , Mr. Copperfield , said Uriah , making his forgiving nature the subject of a most impious and awful parallel , which I shall not record . 
It would ill become me to bear malice . 
I freely forgive you , and I hope you'll curb your passions in future . 
I hope Mr. W. will repent , and Miss W. , and all of that sinful lot . 
You've been visited with affliction , and I hope it may do you good but you'd better have come here . 
Mr. W. had better have come here , and Miss W. too . 
The best wish I could give you , Mr. Copperfield , and give all of you gentlemen , is , that you could be took up and brought here . 
When I think of my past follies , and my present state , I am sure it would be best for you . 
It was a characteristic feature in this repentance , that I was fain to ask what these two men had done , to be there at all . 
That appeared to be the last thing about which they had anything to say . 
I addressed myself to one of the two warders , who , I suspected from certain latent indications in their faces , knew pretty well what all this stir was worth . 
'Do you know , said I , as we walked along the passage , 'what felony was Number Twenty Seven's last folly ? The answer was that it was a Bank case . 
'A fraud on the Bank of England ? I asked . 
Fraud , forgery , and conspiracy . 
He set the others on . 
It was a deep plot for a large sum . 
Sentence , transportation for life . 
Twenty Seven was the knowingest bird of the lot , and had very nearly kept himself safe but not quite . 
The Bank was just able to put salt upon his tail and only just . 
got a place , and robbed a young master of a matter of two hundred and fifty pounds in money and valuables , the night before they were going abroad . 
I particularly recollect his case , from his being took by a dwarf . 
'A what ? 'A little woman . 
'He cut her face right open , and pounded her in the most brutal manner , when she took him but she never loosed her hold till he was locked up . 
She held so tight to him , in fact , that the officers were obliged to take 'em both together . 
She gave her evidence in the gamest way , and was highly complimented by the Bench , and cheered right home to her lodgings . 
, if he had been Samson . 
And it's my belief she would ! It was mine too , and I highly respected Miss Mowcher for it . 
We had now seen all there was to see . 
We left them to their system and themselves , and went home wondering . 
'Perhaps it's a good thing , Traddles , said I , 'to have an unsound Hobby ridden hard for it's the sooner ridden to death . 
'I hope so , replied Traddles . 
CHAPTER A LIGHT SHINES ON MY WAY The year came round to Christmas time , and I had been at home above two months . 
I had seen Agnes frequently . 
At least once a week , and sometimes oftener , I rode over there , and passed the evening . 
I wore away the longest part of many wild sad nights , in those rides reviving , as I went , the thoughts that had occupied me in my long absence . 
Or , if I were to say rather that I listened to the echoes of those thoughts , I should better express the truth . 
They spoke to me from afar off . 
I had put them at a distance , and accepted my inevitable place . 
What she always had been to me , she still was wholly unaltered . 
But we preserved an unbroken silence . 
I believed that she had read , or partly read , my thoughts that night and that she fully comprehended why I gave mine no more distinct expression . 
If that were so , my sacrifice was nothing my plainest obligation to her unfulfilled and every poor action I had shrunk from , I was hourly doing . 
I resolved to set this right beyond all doubt if such a barrier were between us , to break it down at once with a determined hand . 
It was what lasting reason have I to remember it ! a cold , harsh , winter day . 
There had been snow , some hours before and it lay , not deep , but hard frozen on the ground . 
Out at sea , beyond my window , the wind blew ruggedly from the north . 
'Riding today , Trot ? said my aunt , putting her head in at the door . 
'Yes , said I , 'I am going over to Canterbury . 
It's a good day for a ride . 
My aunt , I may observe , allowed my horse on the forbidden ground , but had not at all relented towards the donkeys . 
'He will be fresh enough , presently ! said I. 'The ride will do his master good , at all events , observed my aunt , glancing at the papers on my table . 
'Ah , child , you pass a good many hours here ! I never thought , when I used to read books , what work it was to write them . 
'It's work enough to read them , sometimes , I returned . 
'As to the writing , it has its own charms , aunt . 
'Ah ! I see ! said my aunt . 
'Are you confirmed in your impression ? I inquired . 
'I think I am , Trot . 
She looked so steadfastly at me with a kind of doubt , or pity , or suspense in her affection that I summoned the stronger determination to show her a perfectly cheerful face . 
'And what is more , Trot said my aunt . 
'Yes ! 'I think Agnes is going to be married . 
'God bless her ! said I , cheerfully . 
'God bless her ! said my aunt , 'and her husband too ! I echoed it , parted from my aunt , and went lightly downstairs , mounted , and rode away . 
There was greater reason than before to do what I had resolved to do . 
The little girls had gone to their own homes now , and she was alone by the fire , reading . 
She put down her book on seeing me come in and having welcomed me as usual , took her work basket and sat in one of the old fashioned windows . 
Agnes was very cheerful and laughingly predicted that I should soon become too famous to be talked to , on such subjects . 
'So I make the most of the present time , you see , said Agnes , 'and talk to you while I may . 
As I looked at her beautiful face , observant of her work , she raised her mild clear eyes , and saw that I was looking at her . 
'You are thoughtful today , Trotwood ! 'Agnes , shall I tell you what about ? I came to tell you . 
She put aside her work , as she was used to do when we were seriously discussing anything and gave me her whole attention . 
'My dear Agnes , do you doubt my being true to you ? 'No ! she answered , with a look of astonishment . 
'Do you doubt my being what I always have been to you ? 'No ! she answered , as before . 
'You have a secret , said I. 'Let me share it , Agnes . 
She cast down her eyes , and trembled . 
And yet they awakened something in me , bringing promise to my heart . 
Without my knowing why , these tears allied themselves with the quietly sad smile which was so fixed in my remembrance , and shook me more with hope than fear or sorrow . 
'Agnes ! Sister ! Dearest ! What have I done ? 'Let me go away , Trotwood . 
I will speak to you by and by another time . 
I will write to you . 
Don't speak to me now . 
Don't ! don't ! I sought to recollect what she had said , when I had spoken to her on that former night , of her affection needing no return . 
It seemed a very world that I must search through in a moment . 
'Agnes , I cannot bear to see you so , and think that I have been the cause . 
My dearest girl , dearer to me than anything in life , if you are unhappy , let me share your unhappiness . 
If you are in need of help or counsel , let me try to give it to you . 
If you have indeed a burden on your heart , let me try to lighten it . 
You have not taught me quite in vain . 
There is no alloy of self in what I feel for you . 
I can do no more . 
If I have sometimes , in the course of years , wanted help and counsel , they have come to me . 
If I have sometimes been unhappy , the feeling has passed away . 
If I have ever had a burden on my heart , it has been lightened for me . 
If I have any secret , it is no new one and is not what you suppose . 
I cannot reveal it , or divide it . 
It has long been mine , and must remain mine . 
'Agnes ! Stay ! A moment ! She was going away , but I detained her . 
I clasped my arm about her waist . 
'In the course of years ! 'It is not a new one ! New thoughts and hopes were whirling through my mind , and all the colours of my life were changing . 
'Dearest Agnes ! Whom I so respect and honour whom I so devotedly love ! When I came here today , I thought that nothing could have wrested this confession from me . 
I thought I could have kept it in my bosom all our lives , till we were old . 
'I am glad to know it ! 'When I loved her even then , my love would have been incomplete , without your sympathy . 
I had it , and it was perfected . 
I stayed away , loving you . 
I returned home , loving you ! And now , I tried to tell her of the struggle I had had , and the conclusion I had come to . 
I tried to lay my mind before her , truly , and entirely . 
'Dearest , what ? She laid her gentle hands upon my shoulders , and looked calmly in my face . 
'Do you know , yet , what it is ? 'I am afraid to speculate on what it is . 
Tell me , my dear . 
The early stars began to shine while we were lingering on , and looking up to them , we thanked our GOD for having guided us to this tranquillity . 
We stood together in the same old fashioned window at night , when the moon was shining Agnes with her quiet eyes raised up to it I following her glance . 
It was nearly dinner time next day when we appeared before my aunt . 
She was up in my study , Peggotty said which it was her pride to keep in readiness and order for me . 
We found her , in her spectacles , sitting by the fire . 
She greeted Agnes heartily , nevertheless and we were soon in the lighted parlour downstairs , at dinner . 
My aunt put on her spectacles twice or thrice , to take another look at me , but as often took them off again , disappointed , and rubbed her nose with them . 
Much to the discomfiture of Mr. Dick , who knew this to be a bad symptom . 
'By the by , aunt , said I , after dinner 'I have been speaking to Agnes about what you told me . 
'Then , Trot , said my aunt , turning scarlet , 'you did wrong , and broke your promise . 
'You are not angry , aunt , I trust ? I am sure you won't be , when you learn that Agnes is not unhappy in any attachment . 
'Stuff and nonsense ! said my aunt . 
As my aunt appeared to be annoyed , I thought the best way was to cut her annoyance short . 
I took Agnes in my arm to the back of her chair , and we both leaned over her . 
The hysterics called up Peggotty . 
The moment my aunt was restored , she flew at Peggotty , and calling her a silly old creature , hugged her with all her might . 
and after that , told them why . 
Then , we were all happy together . 
I could not discover whether my aunt , in her last short conversation with me , had fallen on a pious fraud , or had really mistaken the state of my mind . 
It was quite enough , she said , that she had told me Agnes was going to be married and that I now knew better than anyone how true it was . 
We were married within a fortnight . 
Traddles and Sophy , and Doctor and Mrs. Strong , were the only guests at our quiet wedding . 
We left them full of joy and drove away together . 
'Now that I may call you by that name , I have one thing more to tell you . 
'Let me hear it , love . 
'It grows out of the night when Dora died . 
She sent you for me . 
'She told me that she left me something . 
Can you think what it was ? I believed I could . 
I drew the wife who had so long loved me , closer to my side . 
'She told me that she made a last request to me , and left me a last charge . 
'And it was 'That only I would occupy this vacant place . 
And Agnes laid her head upon my breast , and wept and I wept with her , though we were so happy . 
I had advanced in fame and fortune , my domestic joy was perfect , I had been married ten happy years . 
He had been asked if he came on business , and had answered No he had come for the pleasure of seeing me , and had come a long way . 
He was an old man , my servant said , and looked like a farmer . 
left her doll in a chair to represent her , and thrust out her little heap of golden curls from between the window curtains , to see what happened next . 
'Let him come in here ! said I. There soon appeared , pausing in the dark doorway as he entered , a hale , grey haired old man . 
An old man now , but in a ruddy , hearty , strong old age . 
'Mas'r Davy , said he . 
, and then , over a glass of Yarmouth grog , we will have the tidings of ten years ! 'Are you alone ? asked Agnes . 
'Yes , ma'am , he said , kissing her hand , 'quite alone . 
'It's a mort of water , said Mr. Peggotty , 'fur to come across , and on'y stay a matter of fower weeks . 
comes nat'ral to me and friends is dear , and I am heer . 
Which is verse , said Mr. Peggotty , surprised to find it out , 'though I hadn't such intentions . 
'Are you going back those many thousand miles , so soon ? asked Agnes . 
'Yes , ma'am , he returned . 
'I giv the promise to Em'ly , afore I come away . 
You see , I doen't grow younger as the years comes round , and if I hadn't sailed as 'twas , most like I shouldn't never have done 't . 
He looked at us , as if he could never feast his eyes on us sufficiently . 
Agnes laughingly put back some scattered locks of his grey hair , that he might see us better . 
'And now tell us , said I , 'everything relating to your fortunes . 
'Our fortuns , Mas'r Davy , he rejoined , 'is soon told . 
We haven't fared nohows , but fared to thrive . 
We've worked as we ought to 't , and maybe we lived a leetle hard at first or so , but we have allus thrived . 
What with sheep farming , and what with stock farming , and what with one thing and what with t'other , we are as well to do , as well could be . 
Theer's been kiender a blessing fell upon us , said Mr. Peggotty , reverentially inclining his head , 'and we've done nowt but prosper . 
That is , in the long run . 
If not yesterday , why then today . 
If not today , why then tomorrow . 
'And Emily ? said Agnes and I , both together . 
'When did she first hear of it ? I asked . 
'I kep it from her arter I heerd on 't , said Mr. Peggotty , 'going on nigh a year . 
We was living then in a solitary place , but among the beautifullest trees , and with the roses a covering our Beein to the roof . 
, and of course we took him in , and giv him to eat and drink , and made him welcome . 
We all do that , all the colony over . 
He'd got an old newspaper with him , and some other account in print of the storm . 
That's how she know'd it . 
When I came home at night , I found she know'd it . 
He dropped his voice as he said these words , and the gravity I so well remembered overspread his face . 
'Did it change her much ? we asked . 
'Aye , for a good long time , he said , shaking his head 'if not to this present hour . 
But I think the solitoode done her good . 
And she had a deal to mind in the way of poultry and the like , and minded of it , and come through . 
I wonder , he said thoughtfully , 'if you could see my Em'ly now , Mas'r Davy , whether you'd know her ! 'Is she so altered ? I inquired . 
I see her ev'ry day , and doen't know But , odd times , I have thowt so . 
That's Em'ly ! We silently observed him as he sat , still looking at the fire . 
'Some thinks , he said , 'as her affection was ill bestowed some , as her marriage was broken off by death . 
No one knows how 'tis . 
She might have married well , a mort of times , but , uncle , she says to me , that's gone for ever . 
fondly loving of her uncle patient liked by young and old sowt out by all that has any trouble . 
That's Em'ly ! He drew his hand across his face , and with a half suppressed sigh looked up from the fire . 
'Is Martha with you yet ? I asked . 
'Martha , he replied , 'got married , Mas'r Davy , in the second year . 
, and then to set up fur their two selves in the Bush . 
She spoke to me fur to tell him her trew story . 
They was married , and they live fower hundred mile away from any voices but their own and the singing birds . 
'Would you believe it ! he said . 
'And what did Mrs. Gummidge say ? I asked , when I was grave enough . 
Mr. Peggotty burst into a great roar of laughter , and Agnes and I both kept him company . 
She's the willingest , the trewest , the honestest helping woman , Mas'r Davy , as ever draw'd the breath of life . 
I have never know'd her to be lone and lorn , for a single minute , not even when the colony was all afore us , and we was new to it . 
Micawber was in the Bush near you ? said I. 'Bless you , yes , said Mr. Peggotty , 'and turned to with a will . 
I never wish to meet a better gen'l'man for turning to with a will . 
I've seen that theer bald head of his a perspiring in the sun , Mas'r Davy , till I a'most thowt it would have melted away . 
And now he's a Magistrate . 
It is estimated that not fewer than forty seven persons must have been accommodated with dinner at one time , exclusive of the company in the passage and on the stairs . 
The beauty , fashion , and exclusiveness of Port Middlebay , flocked to do honour to one so deservedly esteemed , so highly talented , and so widely popular . 
presided , and on his right sat the distinguished guest . 
, the usual loyal and patriotic toasts were severally given and rapturously received . 
Doctor Mell , in a speech replete with feeling , then proposed Our distinguished Guest , the ornament of our town . 
Again and again it rose and fell , like the waves of ocean . 
At length all was hushed , and WILKINS MICAWBER , ESQUIRE , presented himself to return thanks . 
At the conclusion of the proceedings the tables were cleared as if by art magic for dancing . 
'My Dear Sir , 'Years have elapsed , since I had an opportunity of ocularly perusing the lineaments , now familiar to the imaginations of a considerable portion of the civilized world . 
from the personal society of the friend and companion of my youth , I have not been unmindful of his soaring flight . 
from participating in the intellectual feasts he has spread before us . 
'Go on , my dear Sir ! You are not unknown here , you are not unappreciated . 
Though remote , we are neither unfriended , melancholy , nor slow . 
I found , on glancing at the remaining contents of the newspaper , that Mr. Micawber was a diligent and esteemed correspondent of that journal . 
We talked much of Mr. Micawber , on many other evenings while Mr. Peggotty remained with us . 
Agnes and I parted from him aboard ship , when he sailed and we shall never part from him more , on earth . 
But before he left , he went with me to Yarmouth , to see a little tablet I had put up in the churchyard to the memory of Ham . 
While I was copying the plain inscription for him at his request , I saw him stoop , and gather a tuft of grass from the grave and a little earth . 
'For Em'ly , he said , as he put it in his breast . 
'I promised , Mas'r Davy . 
CHAPTER A LAST RETROSPECT And now my written story ends . 
I look back , once more for the last time before I close these leaves . 
I see myself , with Agnes at my side , journeying along the road of life . 
I see our children and our friends around us and I hear the roar of many voices , not indifferent to me as I travel on . 
My aunt's old disappointment is set right , now . 
There is something bulky in Peggotty's pocket . 
I find it very curious to see my own infant face , looking up at me from the Crocodile stories and to be reminded by it of my old acquaintance Brooks of Sheffield . 
Let me hear what they say . 
'Rosa , I have forgotten this gentleman's name . 
Rosa bends over her , and calls to her , 'Mr . 
'I am glad to see you , sir . 
I am sorry to observe you are in mourning . 
I hope Time will be good to you . 
Her impatient attendant scolds her , tells her I am not in mourning , bids her look again , tries to rouse her . 
'You have seen my son , sir , says the elder lady . 
'Are you reconciled ? Looking fixedly at me , she puts her hand to her forehead , and moans . 
Suddenly , she cries , in a terrible voice , 'Rosa , come to me . 
Thus I leave them thus I always find them thus they wear their time away , from year to year . 
But Julia keeps no diary in these days never sings Affection's Dirge eternally quarrels with the old Scotch Croesus , who is a sort of yellow bear with a tanned hide . 
Julia is steeped in money to the throat , and talks and thinks of nothing else . 
I liked her better in the Desert of Sahara . 
, and happy in his home and wife . 
made more rebellious than ever by the constant friction of his lawyer's wig , I come , in a later time , upon my dear old Traddles . 
'Well , my dear Copperfield , WHEN I am one , I shall tell the story , as I said I would . 
We walk away , arm in arm . 
I am going to have a family dinner with Traddles . 
It is Sophy's birthday and , on our road , Traddles discourses to me of the good fortune he has enjoyed . 
'I really have been able , my dear Copperfield , to do all that I had most at heart . 
'Except the Beauty , says Traddles . 
It was very unfortunate that she should marry such a vagabond . 
But there was a certain dash and glare about him that caught her . 
However , now we have got her safe at our house , and got rid of him , we must cheer her up again . 
Traddles's house is one of the very houses or it easily may have been which he and Sophy used to parcel out , in their evening walks . 
Here , when we go in , is a crowd of them , running down to the door , and handing Traddles about to be kissed , until he is out of breath . 
And now , as I close my task , subduing my desire to linger yet , these faces fade away . 
But one face , shining on me like a Heavenly light by which I see all other objects , is above them and beyond them all . 
I turn my head , and see it , in its beautiful serenity , beside me . 
My lamp burns low , and I have written far into the night but the dear presence , without which I were nothing , bears me company . 
