Cranford by Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell , Edition . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
uk Second proofed by Margaret Price . 
Cranford CHAPTER I OUR SOCIETY IN the first place , Cranford is in possession of the Amazons all the holders of houses above a certain rent are women . 
In short , whatever does become of the gentlemen , they are not at Cranford . 
What could they do if they were there ? The surgeon has his round of thirty miles , and sleeps at Cranford but every man cannot be a surgeon . 
to the poor , and real tender good offices to each other whenever they are in distress , the ladies of Cranford are quite sufficient . 
As everybody had this rule in their minds , whether they received or paid a call , of course no absorbing subject was ever spoken about . 
We kept ourselves to short sentences of small talk , and were punctual to our time . 
We none of us spoke of money , because that subject savoured of commerce and trade , and though some might be poor , we were all aristocratic . 
The Cranfordians had that kindly ESPRIT DE CORPS which made them overlook all deficiencies in success when some among them tried to conceal their poverty . 
to give anything expensive , in the way of eatable or drinkable , at the evening entertainments . 
The ladies of Cranford were already rather moaning over the invasion of their territories by a man and a gentleman . 
Death was as true and as common as poverty yet people never spoke about that , loud out in the streets . 
It was a word not to be mentioned to ears polite . 
We had tacitly agreed to ignore that any with whom we associated on terms of visiting equality could ever be prevented by poverty from doing anything that they wished . 
If we walked to or from a party , it was because the night was SO fine , or the air SO refreshing , not because sedan chairs were expensive . 
Of course , then , we did not know what to make of a man who could speak of poverty as if it was not a disgrace . 
Yet , somehow , Captain Brown made himself respected in Cranford , and was called upon , in spite of all resolutions to the contrary . 
I was surprised to hear his opinions quoted as authority at a visit which I paid to Cranford about a year after he had settled in the town . 
He had been blind to all the small slights , and omissions of trivial ceremonies , with which he had been received . 
It was on this subject An old lady had an Alderney cow , which she looked upon as a daughter . 
You could not pay the short quarter of an hour call without being told of the wonderful milk or wonderful intelligence of this animal . 
The whole town knew and kindly regarded Miss Betsy Barker's Alderney therefore great was the sympathy and regret when , in an unguarded moment , the poor cow tumbled into a lime pit . 
Everybody pitied the animal , though a few could not restrain their smiles at her droll appearance . 
Miss Betsy Barker absolutely cried with sorrow and dismay and it was said she thought of trying a bath of oil . 
But my advice is , kill the poor creature at once . 
I have watched her myself many a time . 
Do you ever see cows dressed in grey flannel in London ? Captain Brown had taken a small house on the outskirts of the town , where he lived with his two daughters . 
He must have been upwards of sixty at the time of the first visit I paid to Cranford after I had left it as a residence . 
His eldest daughter looked almost as old as himself , and betrayed the fact that his real was more than his apparent age . 
Miss Brown must have been forty she had a sickly , pained , careworn expression on her face , and looked as if the gaiety of youth had long faded out of sight . 
Even when young she must have been plain and hard featured . 
Miss Jessie Brown was ten years younger than her sister , and twenty shades prettier . 
Her face was round and dimpled . 
, that she thought it was time for Miss Jessie to leave off her dimples , and not always to be trying to look like a child . 
It was true there was something childlike in her face and there will be , I think , till she dies , though she should live to a hundred . 
I do not know whether she was pretty or not but I liked her face , and so did everybody , and I do not think she could help her dimples . 
Two pounds was a large sum in Captain Brown's annual disbursements . 
Such was the impression made upon me by the Brown family when I first saw them all together in Cranford Church . 
The Captain I had met before on the occasion of the smoky chimney , which he had cured by some simple alteration in the flue . 
In church , he held his double eye glass to his eyes during the Morning Hymn , and then lifted up his head erect and sang out loud and joyfully . 
On coming out of church , the brisk Captain paid the most gallant attention to his two daughters . 
I wonder what the Cranford ladies did with Captain Brown at their parties . 
We had often rejoiced , in former days , that there was no gentleman to be attended to , and to find conversation for , at the card parties . 
Card tables , with green baize tops , were set out by daylight , just as usual it was the third week in November , so the evenings closed in about four . 
Candles , and clean packs of cards , were arranged on each table . 
Parties in Cranford were solemn festivities , making the ladies feel gravely elated as they sat together in their best dresses . 
As soon as three had arrived , we sat down to Preference , I being the unlucky fourth . 
The china was delicate egg shell the old fashioned silver glittered with polishing but the eatables were of the slightest description . 
Ruffled brows were smoothed , sharp voices lowered at his approach . 
Miss Brown looked ill , and depressed almost to gloom . 
Miss Jessie smiled as usual , and seemed nearly as popular as her father . 
Miss Jessie could not play cards but she talked to the sitters out , who , before her coming , had been rather inclined to be cross . 
She sang , too , to an old cracked piano , which I think had been a spinet in its youth . 
that she had an uncle , her mother's brother , who was a shop keeper in Edinburgh . 
Have you seen any numbers of 'The Pickwick Papers' ? said he . 
So she answered and said , Yes , she had seen them indeed , she might say she had read them . 
And what do you think of them ? exclaimed Captain Brown . 
Aren't they famously good ? So urged Miss Jenkyns could not but speak . 
I must say , I don't think they are by any means equal to Dr Johnson . 
Still , perhaps , the author is young . 
It is quite a different sort of thing , my dear madam , he began . 
I am quite aware of that , returned she . 
And I make allowances , Captain Brown . 
Just allow me to read you a scene out of this month's number , pleaded he . 
I had it only this morning , and I don't think the company can have read it yet . 
As you please , said she , settling herself with an air of resignation . 
He read the account of the swarry which Sam Weller gave at Bath . 
Some of us laughed heartily . 
I did not dare , because I was staying in the house . 
Miss Jenkyns sat in patient gravity . 
When it was ended , she turned to me , and said with mild dignity Fetch me 'Rasselas , my dear , out of the book room . 
The Captain screwed his lips up , and drummed on the table , but he did not speak . 
She thought she would give him a finishing blow or two . 
I consider it vulgar , and below the dignity of literature , to publish in numbers . 
How was the RAMBLER published , ma'am ? asked Captain Brown in a low voice , which I think Miss Jenkyns could not have heard . 
Dr Johnson's style is a model for young beginners . 
My father recommended it to me when I began to write letters I have formed my own style upon it I recommended it to your favourite . 
I should be very sorry for him to exchange his style for any such pompous writing , said Captain Brown . 
Miss Jenkyns felt this as a personal affront , in a way of which the Captain had not dreamed . 
Epistolary writing she and her friends considered as her FORTE . 
She drew herself up with dignity , and only replied to Captain Brown's last remark by saying , with marked emphasis on every syllable , I prefer Dr Johnson to Mr Boz . 
The next day she made the remark I have mentioned about Miss Jessie's dimples . 
There was nothing new to be discovered respecting their poverty for they had spoken simply and openly about that from the very first . 
They made no mystery of the necessity for their being economical . 
All that remained to be discovered was the Captain's infinite kindness of heart , and the various modes in which , unconsciously to himself , he manifested it . 
Some little anecdotes were talked about for some time after they occurred . 
As we did not read much , and as all the ladies were pretty well suited with servants , there was a dearth of subjects for conversation . 
We therefore discussed the circumstance of the Captain taking a poor old woman's dinner out of her hands one very slippery Sunday . 
Cross , too , she was at times , when the nervous irritability occasioned by her disease became past endurance . 
Miss Jessie bore with her at these times , even more patiently than she did with the bitter self upbraidings by which they were invariably succeeded . 
She would so fain have made sacrifices for them , and have lightened their cares , that the original generosity of her disposition added acerbity to her temper . 
All this was borne by Miss Jessie and her father with more than placidity with absolute tenderness . 
I forgave Miss Jessie her singing out of tune , and her juvenility of dress , when I saw her at home . 
were remnants of the military smartness of his youth , which he now wore unconsciously . 
He was a man of infinite resources , gained in his barrack experience . 
, having heard her say how much the grating of an iron one annoyed her . 
She received the present with cool gratitude , and thanked him formally . 
Such was the state of things when I left Cranford and went to Drumble . 
I had , however , several correspondents , who kept me AU FAIT as to the proceedings of the dear little town . 
Then came Miss Jenkyns Deborah , as she liked Miss Matty to call her , her father having once said that the Hebrew name ought to be so pronounced . 
Equal , indeed ! she knew they were superior . 
But to return to her letters . 
Everything in them was stately and grand like herself . 
You will not easily conjecture what brought his lordship within the precincts of our little town . 
But from some mundane failings who is altogether free ? Miss Pole and Miss Matty wrote to me by the same post . 
Such a piece of news as Lord Mauleverer's visit was not to be lost on the Cranford letter writers they made the most of it . 
My next visit to Cranford was in the summer . 
There had been neither births , deaths , nor marriages since I was there last . 
Everybody lived in the same house , and wore pretty nearly the same well preserved , old fashioned clothes . 
The greatest event was , that Miss Jenkyns had purchased a new carpet for the drawing room . 
Do you make paper paths for every guest to walk upon in London ? Captain Brown and Miss Jenkyns were not very cordial to each other . 
The literary dispute , of which I had seen the beginning , was a raw , the slightest touch on which made them wince . 
It was the only difference of opinion they had ever had but that difference was enough . 
The poor , brave Captain ! he looked older , and more worn , and his clothes were very threadbare . 
But he seemed as bright and cheerful as ever , unless he was asked about his daughter's health . 
I found , from Miss Matty , that everything had been done , in fact . 
A medical man , of high repute in that country neighbourhood , had been sent for , and every injunction he had given was attended to , regardless of expense . 
Yet she looks as neat and as ready to welcome the Captain at breakfast time as if she had been asleep in the Queen's bed all night . 
My dear ! you could never laugh at her prim little curls or her pink bows again if you saw her as I have done . 
I could only feel very penitent , and greet Miss Jessie with double respect when I met her next . 
She looked faded and pinched and her lips began to quiver , as if she was very weak , when she spoke of her sister . 
The poor people will leave their earliest vegetables at our door for her . 
They speak short and gruff , as if they were ashamed of it but I am sure it often goes to my heart to see their thoughtfulness . 
The tears now came back and overflowed but after a minute or two she began to scold herself , and ended by going away the same cheerful Miss Jessie as ever . 
He did send game in the winter pretty often , but now he is gone abroad . 
Things that many would despise , and actions which it seemed scarcely worth while to perform , were all attended to in Cranford . 
Miss Jenkyns stuck an apple full of cloves , to be heated and smell pleasantly in Miss Brown's room and as she put in each clove she uttered a Johnsonian sentence . 
Captain Brown called one day to thank Mist Jenkyns for many little kindnesses , which I did not know until then that she had rendered . 
He had suddenly become like an old man his deep bass voice had a quavering in it , his eyes looked dim , and the lines on his face were deep . 
He did not could not speak cheerfully of his daughter's state , but he talked with manly , pious resignation , and not much . 
That afternoon we perceived little groups in the street , all listening with faces aghast to some tale or other . 
Miss Jenkyns wondered what could be the matter for some time before she took the undignified step of sending Jenny out to inquire . 
Jenny came back with a white face of terror . 
Oh , ma'am ! Oh , Miss Jenkyns , ma'am ! Captain Brown is killed by them nasty cruel railroads ! and she burst into tears . 
She , along with many others , had experienced the poor Captain's kindness . 
How ? where where ? Good God ! Jenny , don't waste time in crying , but tell us something . 
Miss Matty rushed out into the street at once , and collared the man who was telling the tale . 
Come in come to my sister at once , Miss Jenkyns , the rector's daughter . 
Please , mum , it is true . 
I seed it myself , and he shuddered at the recollection . 
O Lord , Lord ! Mum , it's quite true , and they've come over to tell his daughters . 
The child's safe , though , with only a bang on its shoulder as he threw it to its mammy . 
I turned to Miss Jenkyns . 
She looked very ill , as if she were going to faint , and signed to me to open the window . 
Matilda , bring me my bonnet . 
I must go to those girls . 
God pardon me , if ever I have spoken contemptuously to the Captain ! Miss Jenkyns arrayed herself to go out , telling Miss Matilda to give the man a glass of wine . 
While she was away , Miss Matty and I huddled over the fire , talking in a low and awe struck voice . 
I know we cried quietly all the time . 
Miss Jenkyns came home in a silent mood , and we durst not ask her many questions . 
Mr Hoggins says she cannot live many days , and she shall be spared this shock , said Miss Jessie , shivering with feelings to which she dared not give way . 
But how can you manage , my dear ? asked Miss Jenkyns you cannot bear up , she must see your tears . 
God will help me I will not give way she was asleep when the news came she may be asleep yet . 
She would be so utterly miserable , not merely at my father's death , but to think of what would become of me she is so good to me . 
However , it was settled according to Miss Jessie's wish . 
Miss Brown was to be told her father had been summoned to take a short journey on railway business . 
They had managed it in some way Miss Jenkyns could not exactly say how . 
Miss Pole was to stop with Miss Jessie . 
Mrs Jamieson had sent to inquire . 
And this was all we heard that night and a sorrowful night it was . 
The next day a full account of the fatal accident was in the county paper which Miss Jenkyns took in . 
Her eyes were very weak , she said , and she asked me to read it . 
Miss Jessie had set her heart on following it to the grave and no dissuasives could alter her resolve . 
Her restraint upon herself made her almost obstinate she resisted all Miss Pole's entreaties and Miss Jenkyns' advice . 
It is not fit for you to go alone . 
It would be against both propriety and humanity were I to allow it . 
Miss Jessie seemed as if she did not half like this arrangement but her obstinacy , if she had any , had been exhausted in her determination to go to the interment . 
But it was not to be . 
That afternoon Miss Jenkyns sent out for a yard of black crape , and employed herself busily in trimming the little black silk bonnet I have spoken about . 
When it was finished she put it on , and looked at us for approbation admiration she despised . 
Miss Pole , Miss Matty , and I , meanwhile attended to Miss Brown and hard work we found it to relieve her querulous and never ending complaints . 
But if we were so weary and dispirited , what must Miss Jessie have been ! Yet she came back almost calm as if she had gained a new strength . 
She put off her mourning dress , and came in , looking pale and gentle , thanking us each with a soft long pressure of the hand . 
She was evidently in a state of great friendly excitement , which she showed by eating her breakfast standing , and scolding the household all round . 
No nursing no energetic strong minded woman could help Miss Brown now . 
There was that in the room as we entered which was stronger than us all , and made us shrink into solemn awestruck helplessness . 
We hardly knew her voice , it was so devoid of the complaining tone we had always associated with it . 
She was conscious of her sister's presence , though not , I think , of ours . 
We stood a little behind the curtain Miss Jessie knelt with her face near her sister's , in order to catch the last soft awful whispers . 
God forgive me ! Hush , love ! hush ! said Miss Jessie , sobbing . 
And my father , my dear , dear father ! I will not complain now , if God will give me strength to be patient . 
But , oh , Jessie ! tell my father how I longed and yearned to see him at last , and to ask his forgiveness . 
He knows now how you loved him . 
A strange look , which was not distress , came over Miss Brown's face . 
Then she put her hands together tight , and lifted them up , and said but not to us Though He slay me , yet will I trust in Him . 
In a few moments more Miss Brown lay calm and still never to sorrow or murmur more . 
I can sew neatly , said she , and I like nursing . 
We were both startled when Miss Jenkyns reappeared , and caught us crying . 
A gentleman , my dear , who wants to know if you would see him . 
Is it ? it is not stammered out Miss Jessie and got no farther . 
May he come up ? asked Miss Jenkyns at last . 
Oh , yes ! certainly ! said Miss Jessie , as much as to say , this is your house , you may show any visitor where you like . 
She took up some knitting of Miss Matty's and began to be very busy , though I could see how she trembled all over . 
He shook hands with Miss Jessie but he could not see her eyes , she kept them so fixed on the ground . 
She had mentioned that the surgeons foretold intense suffering and there was no one but herself to nurse her poor Mary , or cheer and comfort her father during the time of illness . 
He had been travelling in the East , and was on his return home when , at Rome , he saw the account of Captain Brown's death in GALIGNANI . 
Just then Miss Matty , who had been out all the morning , and had only lately returned to the house , burst in with a face of dismay and outraged propriety . 
Oh , goodness me ! she said . 
Deborah , there's a gentleman sitting in the drawing room with his arm round Miss Jessie's waist ! Miss Matty's eyes looked large with terror . 
Miss Jenkyns snubbed her down in an instant . 
The most proper place in the world for his arm to be in . 
Go away , Matilda , and mind your own business . 
This from her sister , who had hitherto been a model of feminine decorum , was a blow for poor Miss Matty , and with a double shock she left the room . 
The last time I ever saw poor Miss Jenkyns was many years after this . 
Mrs Gordon had kept up a warm and affectionate intercourse with all at Cranford . 
For , with happiness , something of her early bloom returned she had been a year or two younger than we had taken her for . 
Her eyes were always lovely , and , as Mrs Gordon , her dimples were not out of place . 
At the time to which I have referred , when I last saw Miss Jenkyns , that lady was old and feeble , and had lost something of her strong mind . 
Little Flora Gordon was staying with the Misses Jenkyns , and when I came in she was reading aloud to Miss Jenkyns , who lay feeble and changed on the sofa . 
Flora put down the RAMBLER when I came in . 
Ah ! said Miss Jenkyns , you find me changed , my dear . 
If can't see as I used to do . 
I Flora were not here to read to me , I hardly know how I should get through the day . 
She babbled on long enough for Flora to get a good long spell at the Christmas Carol , which Miss Matty had left on the table . 
do to the living and fresh flowers in the lines and meadows . 
Miss Matty began to cry as soon as she saw me . 
She was evidently nervous from having anticipated my call . 
I comforted her as well as I could and I found the best consolation I could give was the honest praise that came from my heart as I spoke of the deceased . 
She put down her handkerchief and said My dear , I'd rather you did not call me Matty . 
My visit to Miss Pole was very quiet . 
Miss Jenkyns had so long taken the lead in Cranford that now she was gone , they hardly knew how to give a party . 
The Honourable Mrs Jamieson , to whom Miss Jenkyns herself had always yielded the post of honour , was fat and inert , and very much at the mercy of her old servants . 
If they chose that she should give a party , they reminded her of the necessity for so doing if not , she let it alone . 
There was all the more time for me to hear old world stories from Miss Pole , while she sat knitting , and I making my father's shirts . 
One of Miss Pole's stories related to a shadow of a love affair that was dimly perceived or suspected long years before . 
Presently , the time arrived when I was to remove to Miss Matilda's house . 
I found her timid and anxious about the arrangements for my comfort . 
Many a time , while I was unpacking , did she come backwards and forwards to stir the fire which burned all the worse for being so frequently poked . 
Have you drawers enough , dear ? asked she . 
I don't know exactly how my sister used to arrange them . 
I am sure she would have trained a servant in a week to make a better fire than this , and Fanny has been with me four months . 
But a vision of a man seemed to haunt the kitchen . 
The said ways were religiously such as Miss Matilda thought her sister would approve . 
To give an instance we constantly adhered to the forms which were observed , at meal times , in my father , the rector's house . 
, it was added to some of a fresh bottle , brought up from the cellar . 
I fancy poor Captain Brown did not much like wine , for I noticed he never finished his first glass , and most military men take several . 
When oranges came in , a curious proceeding was gone through . 
I had once or twice tried , on such occasions , to prevail on Miss Matty to stay , and had succeeded in her sister's lifetime . 
And so it was in everything . 
Miss Jenkyns's rules were made more stringent than ever , because the framer of them was gone where there could be no appeal . 
In all things else Miss Matilda was meek and undecided to a fault . 
Martha was blunt and plain spoken to a fault otherwise she was a brisk , well meaning , but very ignorant girl . 
Oh ! how must I manage ? asked she helplessly . 
If Deborah had been alive she would have known what to do with a gentleman visitor . 
Must I put razors in his dressing room ? Dear ! dear ! and I've got none . 
Deborah would have had them . 
And slippers , and coat brushes ? I suggested that probably he would bring all these things with him . 
But she was sadly fluttered . 
I made her empty her decanters and bring up two fresh bottles of wine . 
and then , seeing her look bewildered , I added , take the vegetables round to people , and let them help themselves . 
And mind you go first to the ladies , put in Miss Matilda . 
Always go to the ladies before gentlemen when you are waiting . 
I'll do it as you tell me , ma'am , said Martha but I like lads best . 
The major and his wife were quiet unpretending people enough when they did come languid , as all East Indians are , I suppose . 
And NOW I come to the love affair . 
It seems that Miss Pole had a cousin , once or twice removed , who had offered to Miss Matty long ago . 
He would not allow himself to be called Thomas Holbrook , ESQ . 
he even sent back letters with this address , telling the post mistress at Cranford that his name was MR Thomas Holbrook , yeoman . 
He rejected all domestic innovations he would have the house door stand open in summer and shut in winter , without knocker or bell to summon a servant . 
The closed fist or the knob of a stick did this office for him if he found the door locked . 
He despised every refinement which had not its root deep down in humanity . 
If people were not ill , he saw no necessity for moderating his voice . 
added , that he read aloud more beautifully and with more feeling than any one she had ever heard , except the late rector . 
And how came Miss Matilda not to marry him ? asked I. Oh , I don't know . 
She was willing enough , I think but you know Cousin Thomas would not have been enough of a gentleman for the rector and Miss Jenkyns . 
Well ! but they were not to marry him , said I , impatiently . 
No but they did not like Miss Matty to marry below her rank . 
You know she was the rector's daughter , and somehow they are related to Sir Peter Arley Miss Jenkyns thought a deal of that . 
Poor Miss Matty ! said I. Nay , now , I don't know anything more than that he offered and was refused . 
Miss Matty might not like him and Miss Jenkyns might never have said a word it is only a guess of mine . 
Has she never seen him since ? I inquired . 
No , I think not . 
A few minutes after I was startled by meeting Cousin Thomas . 
How old is he ? I asked , after a pause of castle building . 
He must be about seventy , I think , my dear , said Miss Pole , blowing up my castle , as if by gun powder , into small fragments . 
before , and I watched him rather attentively while Miss Matty listened to the shopman . 
The stranger wore a blue coat with brass buttons , drab breeches , and gaiters , and drummed with his fingers on the counter until he was attended to . 
She had made some inquiry which had to be carried round to the other shopman . 
Miss Jenkyns wants the black sarsenet two and twopence the yard and Mr Holbrook had caught the name , and was across the shop in two strides . 
Matty Miss Matilda Miss Jenkyns ! God bless my soul ! I should not have known you . 
I am happy to say my client , Miss Matilda , also left the shop in an equally bewildered state , not having purchased either green or red silk . 
She went straight to her room , and never came back till our early tea time , when I thought she looked as if she had been crying . 
He named that he had also invited his cousin , Miss Pole so that we might join in a fly , which could be put up at his house . 
I expected Miss Matty to jump at this invitation but , no ! Miss Pole and I had the greatest difficulty in persuading her to go . 
She thought it was improper and was even half annoyed when we utterly ignored the idea of any impropriety in her going with two other ladies to see her old lover . 
Then came a more serious difficulty . 
She did not think Deborah would have liked her to go . 
She was in a state of silent agitation all the way to Woodley . 
It was a long drive there , through paved jolting lanes . 
Miss Matilda sat bolt upright , and looked wistfully out of the windows as we drew near the end of our journey . 
The aspect of the country was quiet and pastoral . 
We got out at a little gate , and walked up a straight box edged path . 
My cousin might make a drive , I think , said Miss Pole , who was afraid of ear ache , and had only her cap on . 
He looked more like my idea of Don Quixote than ever , and yet the likeness was only external . 
His respectable housekeeper stood modestly at the door to bid us welcome and , while she led the elder ladies upstairs to a bedroom , I begged to look about the garden . 
My request evidently pleased the old gentleman , who took me all round the place and showed me his six and twenty cows , named after the different letters of the alphabet . 
As we went along , he surprised me occasionally by repeating apt and beautiful quotations from the poets , ranging easily from Shakespeare and George Herbert to those of our own day . 
He did this as naturally as if he were thinking aloud , and their true and beautiful words were the best expression he could find for what he was thinking or feeling . 
The rest of the pretty sitting room looking into the orchard , and all covered over with dancing tree shadows was filled with books . 
They lay on the ground , they covered the walls , they strewed the table . 
He was evidently half ashamed and half proud of his extravagance in this respect . 
They were of all kinds poetry and wild weird tales prevailing . 
He evidently chose his books in accordance with his own tastes , not because such and such were classical or established favourites . 
Ah ! he said , we farmers ought not to have much time for reading yet somehow one can't help it . 
What a pretty room ! said Miss Matty , SOTTO VOCE . 
What a pleasant place ! said I , aloud , almost simultaneously . 
We had pudding before meat and I thought Mr Holbrook was going to make some apology for his old fashioned ways , for he began I don't know whether you like newfangled ways . 
Oh , not at all ! said Miss Matty . 
No more do I , said he . 
Then we had suet puddings , boiled in the broth with the beef and then the meat itself . 
Now folks begin with sweet things , and turn their dinners topsy turvy . 
When the ducks and green peas came , we looked at each other in dismay we had only two pronged , black handled forks . 
Miss Pole sighed over her delicate young peas as she left them on one side of her plate untasted , for they WOULD drop between the prongs . 
I looked at my host the peas were going wholesale into his capacious mouth , shovelled up by his large round ended knife . 
It is very pleasant dining with a bachelor , said Miss Matty softly , as we settled ourselves in the counting house . 
I only hope it is not improper so many pleasant things are ! What a number of books he has ! said Miss Pole , looking round the room . 
And how dusty they are ! I think it must be like one of the great Dr Johnson's rooms , said Miss Matty . 
What a superior man your cousin must be ! Yes ! said Miss Pole , he's a great reader but I am afraid he has got into very uncouth habits with living alone . 
Oh ! uncouth is too hard a word . 
I should call him eccentric very clever people always are ! replied Miss Matty . 
He strode along , either wholly forgetting my existence , or soothed into silence by his pipe and yet it was not silence exactly . 
We came upon an old cedar tree , which stood at one end of the house The cedar spreads his dark green layers of shade . 
Ay ! you may say 'wonderful . 
Now , what colour are ash buds in March ? Is the man going mad ? thought I. He is very like Don Quixote . 
What colour are they , I say ? repeated he vehemently . 
I am sure I don't know , sir , said I , with the meekness of ignorance . 
No more did I an old fool that I am ! till this young man comes and tells me . 
Black as ash buds in March . 
And I've lived all my life in the country more shame for me not to know . 
Black they are jet black , madam . 
And he went off again , swinging along to the music of some rhyme he had got hold of . 
It is so like that beautiful poem of Dr Johnson's my sister used to read I forget the name of it what was it , my dear ? turning to me . 
I don't remember it , said he reflectively . 
But I don't know Dr Johnson's poems well . 
At your age , ma'am , you should be careful . 
But she never spoke of any former and more intimate acquaintance with Mr Holbrook . 
Suddenly he jumped up Well , madam ! have you any commands for Paris ? I am going there in a week or two . 
To Paris ! we both exclaimed . 
We were so much astonished that we had no commissions . 
Just as he was going out of the room , he turned back , with his favourite exclamation God bless my soul , madam ! but I nearly forgot half my errand . 
Here are the poems for you you admired so much the other evening at my house . 
He tugged away at a parcel in his coat pocket . 
Good bye , miss , said he good bye , Matty ! take care of yourself . 
But he had given her a book , and he had called her Matty , just as he used to do thirty years to . 
I wish he would not go to Paris , said Miss Matilda anxiously . 
I don't believe frogs will agree with him he used to have to be very careful what he ate , which was curious in so strong looking a young man . 
I received a warm welcome , in spite of the little flurry produced by my impromptu visit , for I had only been able to give a day's notice . 
Miss Matilda looked miserably ill and I prepared to comfort and cosset her . 
I went down to have a private talk with Martha . 
How long has your mistress been so poorly ? I asked , as I stood by the kitchen fire . 
Well ! I think its better than a fortnight it is , I know it was one Tuesday , after Miss Pole had been , that she went into this moping way . 
You did quite right , Martha . 
It is a comfort to think she has so faithful a servant about her . 
I went to see Miss Pole the next day , and took her completely by surprise , for she had not been to see Miss Matilda for two days . 
Poor Thomas ! that journey to Paris was quite too much for him . 
Does Miss Matilda know of his illness ? asked I a new light as to the cause of her indisposition dawning upon me . 
Dear ! to be sure , yes ! Has not she told you ? I let her know a fortnight ago , or more , when first I heard of it . 
How odd she shouldn't have told you ! Not at all , I thought but I did not say anything . 
I ushered Miss Pole into Miss Matilda's little drawing room , and then left them alone . 
But I was not surprised when Martha came to my bedroom door , to ask me to go down to dinner alone , for that missus had one of her bad headaches . 
So we talked softly and quietly of old times through the long November evening . 
The next day Miss Pole brought us word that Mr Holbrook was dead . 
Miss Matty heard the news in silence in fact , from the account of the previous day , it was only what we had to expect . 
She paused for some demonstration on our part . 
This effort at concealment was the beginning of the tremulous motion of head and hands which I have seen ever since in Miss Matty . 
And , perhaps , Martha , you may some time meet with a young man you like , and who likes you . 
God forbid ! said she in a low voice , that I should grieve any young hearts . 
Though Miss Matty was startled , she submitted to Fate and Love . 
chafed him more than all the loss of his money . 
I am not above owning that I have this human weakness myself . 
My pockets get full of little hanks of it , picked up and twisted together , ready for uses that never come . 
I am seriously annoyed if any one cuts the string of a parcel instead of patiently and faithfully undoing it fold by fold . 
How people can bring themselves to use india rubber rings , which are a sort of deification of string , as lightly as they do , I cannot imagine . 
To me an india rubber ring is a precious treasure . 
I have one which is not new one that I picked up off the floor nearly six years ago . 
I have really tried to use it , but my heart failed me , and I could not commit the extravagance . 
Small pieces of butter grieve others . 
They cannot attend to conversation because of the annoyance occasioned by the habit which some people have of invariably taking more butter than they want . 
and eats up his butter . 
They think that this is not waste . 
Now Miss Matty Jenkyns was chary of candles . 
We had many devices to use as few as possible . 
They were usually brought in with tea but we only burnt one at a time . 
, it required some contrivance to keep our two candles of the same length , ready to be lighted , and to look as if we burnt two always . 
One night , I remember this candle economy particularly annoyed me . 
I fancied Miss Matty must be dreaming of her early life for she spoke one or two words in her uneasy sleep bearing reference to persons who were dead long before . 
There was a little sad expression that shadowed her face as she recognised me but immediately afterwards she tried to give me her usual smile . 
All through tea time her talk ran upon the days of her childhood and youth . 
When she returned there was a faint , pleasant smell of Tonquin beans in the room . 
Miss Matty undid the packet with a sigh but she stifled it directly , as if it were hardly right to regret the flight of time , or of life either . 
We agreed to look them over separately , each taking a different letter out of the same bundle and describing its contents to the other before destroying it . 
I never knew what sad work the reading of old letters was before that evening , though I could hardly tell why . 
The letters were as happy as letters could be at least those early letters were . 
I should have felt less melancholy , I believe , if the letters had been more so . 
I saw the tears stealing down the well worn furrows of Miss Matty's cheeks , and her spectacles often wanted wiping . 
Letters interchanged between my ever honoured father and my dearly beloved mother , prior to their marriage , in July . 
His letters were a curious contrast to those of his girl bride . 
to obtain this or that article of dress , more especially the white Paduasoy . 
This was the first letter , ticketed in a frail , delicate hand , From my dearest John . 
Shortly afterwards they were married , I suppose , from the intermission in their correspondence . 
We must burn them , I think , said Miss Matty , looking doubtfully at me . 
No one will care for them when I am gone . 
Also some practical remarks on the desirability of keeping warm the extremities of infants , from my excellent grandmother . 
His wife did not write , said the old gentleman , because he had forbidden it , she being indisposed with a sprained ankle , which quite incapacitated her from holding a pen . 
The white Paduasoy figured again in the letters , with almost as much vigour as before . 
In one , it was being made into a christening cloak for the baby . 
It decked it when it went with its parents to spend a day or two at Arley Hall . 
It added to its charms , when it was the prettiest little baby that ever was seen . 
There was a great gap before any of the rector's letters appeared . 
And then his wife had changed her mode of her endorsement . 
It was no longer from , My dearest John it was from My Honoured Husband . 
The letters were written on occasion of the publication of the same sermon which was represented in the picture . 
The preaching before My Lord Judge , and the publishing by request , was evidently the culminating point the event of his life . 
It had been necessary for him to go up to London to superintend it through the press . 
The worthy rector seemed to be strung up by the occasion to a high literary pitch , for he could hardly write a letter to his wife without cropping out into Latin . 
But this was nothing to a fit of writing classical poetry which soon seized him , in which his Molly figured away as Maria . 
The letter containing the CARMEN was endorsed by her , Hebrew verses sent me by my honoured husband . 
I thowt to have had a letter about killing the pig , but must wait . 
, to send the poetry to Sir Peter Arley , as my husband desires . 
And in a post scriptum note in his handwriting it was stated that the Ode had appeared in the GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE , December . 
were more satisfactory to an absent husband and father than his could ever have been to her . 
Matty was now the mother's darling , and promised , to be a great beauty . 
I had very pretty hair , my dear , said Mist Matilda and not a bad mouth . 
And I saw her soon afterwards adjust her cap and draw herself up . 
But to return to Mrs Jenkyns's letters . 
She told her husband about the poor in the parish what homely domestic medicines she had administered what kitchen physic she had sent . 
She had evidently held his displeasure as a rod in pickle over the heads of all the ne'er do wells . 
She asked for his directions about the cows and pigs and did not always obtain them , as I have shown before . 
He described all the various sins into which men might fall , until I wondered how any man ever came to a natural death . 
By and by we came to packets of Miss Jenkyns's letters . 
These Miss Matty did regret to burn . 
She would not let them be carelessly passed over with any quiet reading , and skipping , to myself . 
She took them from me , and even lighted the second candle in order to read them aloud with a proper emphasis , and without stumbling over the big words . 
Sometimes the whole letter was contained on a mere scrap of paper . 
the old original post , with the stamp in the corner representing a post boy riding for life and twanging his horn . 
The letters of Mrs Jenkyns and her mother were fastened with a great round red wafer for it was before Miss Edgeworth's patronage had banished wafers from polite society . 
Now , Miss Jenkyns's letters were of a later date in form and writing . 
She wrote on the square sheet which we have learned to call old fashioned . 
Her hand was admirably calculated , together with her use of many syllabled words , to fill up a sheet , and then came the pride and delight of crossing . 
Poor Miss Matty got sadly puzzled with this , for the words gathered size like snowballs , and towards the end of her letter Miss Jenkyns used to become quite sesquipedalian . 
In one to her father , slightly theological and controversial in its tone , she had spoken of Herod , Tetrarch of Idumea . 
Miss Matty read it Herod Petrarch of Etruria , and was just as well pleased as if she had been right . 
in ringing the church bells in a particular and ominous manner . 
I know I used to wake up in the night many a time and think I heard the tramp of the French entering Cranford . 
Many people talked of hiding themselves in the salt mines and meat would have kept capitally down there , only perhaps we should have been thirsty . 
was all the same as an Apollyon and Abaddon . 
I remember my father rather thought he should be asked to print this last set but the parish had , perhaps , had enough of them with hearing . 
was at school at Shrewsbury by this time . 
The rector took up his pen , and rubbed up his Latin once more , to correspond with his boy . 
It was very clear that the lad's were what are called show letters . 
One was , You have not got that town in your map of Ireland but BONUS BERNARDUS NON VIDET OMNIA , as the Proverbia say . 
Presently it became very evident that poor Peter got himself into many scrapes . 
Miss Matty could not speak for crying , after she had read this note . 
Poor Peter ! she said he was always in scrapes he was too easy . 
They led him wrong , and then left him in the lurch . 
But he was too fond of mischief . 
He could never resist a joke . 
Poor Peter ! CHAPTER VI POOR PETER POOR Peter's career lay before him rather pleasantly mapped out by kind friends , but BONUS BERNARDUS NON VIDET OMNIA , in this map too . 
Poor Peter ! his lot in life was very different to what his friends had hoped and planned . 
Miss Matty told me all about it , and I think it was a relief when she had done so . 
He was the darling of his mother , who seemed to dote on all her children , though she was , perhaps , a little afraid of Deborah's superior acquirements . 
Deborah was the favourite of her father , and when Peter disappointed him , she became his pride . 
His father was disappointed , but set about remedying the matter in a manly way . 
My poor mother ! said she . 
I remember how she used to stand in the hall , just near enough the study door , to catch the tone of my father's voice . 
I could tell in a moment if all was going right , by her face . 
And it did go right for a long time . 
What went wrong at last ? said I. That tiresome Latin , I dare say . 
No ! it was not the Latin . 
Peter was in high favour with my father , for he worked up well for him . 
But he seemed to think that the Cranford people might be joked about , and made fun of , and they did not like it nobody does . 
And be sure you never use it yourself . 
I don't know how it slipped out of my mouth , except it was that I was thinking of poor Peter and it was always his expression . 
But he was a very gentlemanly boy in many things . 
He was like dear Captain Brown in always being ready to help any old person or a child . 
Still , he did like joking and making fun and he seemed to think the old ladies in Cranford would believe anything . 
I could laugh to think of some of Peter's jokes . 
No , my dear , I won't tell you of them , because they might not shock you as they ought to do , and they were very shocking . 
He told me he was more terrified than he ever was before , all the time my father was speaking . 
He did not think my father would have believed him and yet if he had not , it would have been a sad thing for Peter . 
Did Miss Jenkyns know of these tricks ? said I. Oh , no ! Deborah would have been too much shocked . 
No , no one knew but me . 
I wish I had always known of Peter's plans but sometimes he did not tell me . 
He used to say the old ladies in the town wanted something to talk about but I don't think they did . 
But , probably , schoolboys talk more than ladies . 
At last there was a terrible , sad thing happened . 
Miss Matty got up , went to the door , and opened it no one was there . 
She rang the bell for Martha , and when Martha came , her mistress told her to go for eggs to a farm at the other end of the town . 
I will lock the door after you , Martha . 
You are not afraid to go , are you ? No , ma'am , not at all Jem Hearn will be only too proud to go with me . 
Miss Matty drew herself up , and as soon as we were alone , she wished that Martha had more maidenly reserve . 
We'll put out the candle , my dear . 
We can talk just as well by firelight , you know . 
My father had gone out to see some sick people in the parish I recollect seeing him leave the house with his wig and shovel hat and cane . 
What possessed our poor Peter I don't know he had the sweetest temper , and yet he always seemed to like to plague Deborah . 
She never laughed at his jokes , and thought him ungenteel , and not careful enough about improving his mind and that vexed him . 
It was only , as he told me afterwards , to make something to talk about in the town he never thought of it as affecting Deborah . 
And he wondered if he could make out a sermon from the occasion , and thought , perhaps , there was some relation between the rhododendrons and the lilies of the field . 
I don't know what my father said or if he said anything . 
I was in the store room helping my mother to make cowslip wine . 
'Mother ! he said , 'I am come to say , God bless you for ever . 
I saw his lips quiver as he spoke and I think he durst not say anything more loving , for the purpose that was in his heart . 
She looked at him rather frightened , and wondering , and asked him what was to do . 
We talked it over , and could not understand it , and she bade me go and seek my father , and ask what it was all about . 
I found him walking up and down , looking very highly displeased . 
'Tell your mother I have flogged Peter , and that he richly deserved it . 
I durst not ask any more questions . 
When I told my mother , she sat down , quite faint , for a minute . 
I remember , a few days after , I saw the poor , withered cowslip flowers thrown out to the leaf heap , to decay and die there . 
There was no making of cowslip wine that year at the rectory nor , indeed , ever after . 
Presently my mother went to my father . 
I know I thought of Queen Esther and King Ahasuerus for my mother was very pretty and delicate looking , and my father looked as terrible as King Ahasuerus . 
But no Peter was there . 
We looked over the house no Peter was there ! Even my father , who had not liked to join in the search at first , helped us before long . 
The rectory was a very old house steps up into a room , steps down into a room , all through . 
My mother kept passing from room to room , in and out of the house , moving noiselessly , but never ceasing . 
Neither she nor my father durst leave the house , which was the meeting place for all the messengers . 
At last , my father rose up . 
He took hold of my mother's arm as she came with wild , sad pace through one door , and quickly towards another . 
She started at the touch of his hand , for she had forgotten all in the world but Peter . 
'Molly ! said he , 'I did not think all this would happen . 
Oh , how I wished for Deborah ! I had no time for crying , for now all seemed to depend on me . 
I wrote for Deborah to come home . 
I sent a message privately to that same Mr Holbrook's house poor Mr Holbrook you know who I mean . 
I don't mean I sent a message to him , but I sent one that I could trust to know if Peter was at his house . 
But Mr Holbrook was from home , and Peter had never been seen . 
'I have borrowed the nets from the weir , Miss Matty . 
Shall we drag the ponds to night , or wait for the morning ? I remember staring in his face to gather his meaning and when I did , I laughed out loud . 
The horror of that new thought our bright , darling Peter , cold , and stark , and dead ! I remember the ring of my own laugh now . 
The next day Deborah was at home before I was myself again . 
had roused my sweet dear mother , whose poor wandering wits were called back and collected as soon as a child needed her care . 
Her soft eyes never were the same again after that they had always a restless , craving look , as if seeking for what they could not find . 
Oh ! it was an awful time coming down like a thunder bolt on the still sunny day when the lilacs were all in bloom . 
, come to offer himself . 
The captain wrote to my father , and Peter wrote to my mother . 
Stay ! those letters will be somewhere here . 
We lighted the candle , and found the captain's letter and Peter's too . 
And we also found a little simple begging letter from Mrs Jenkyns to Peter , addressed to him at the house of an old schoolfellow whither she fancied he might have gone . 
They had returned it unopened and unopened it had remained ever since , having been inadvertently put by among the other letters of that time . 
This is it MY DEAREST PETER , You did not think we should be so sorry as we are , I know , or you would never have gone away . 
Your father sits and sighs till my heart aches to hear him . 
He cannot hold up his head for grief and yet he only did what he thought was right . 
Perhaps he has been too severe , and perhaps I have not been kind enough but God knows how we love you , my dear only boy . 
Don looks so sorry you are gone . 
Come back , and make us happy , who love you so much . 
I know you will come back . 
But Peter did not come back . 
That spring day was the last time he ever saw his mother's face . 
I hope we shall , and lick those French but I must see you again before that time . 
And she was too late , said Miss Matty too late ! We sat in silence , pondering on the full meaning of those sad , sad words . 
At length I asked Miss Matty to tell me how her mother bore it . 
Oh ! she said , she was patience itself . 
She had never been strong , and this weakened her terribly . 
My father used to sit looking at her far more sad than she was . 
He seemed as if he could look at nothing else when she was by and he was so humble so very gentle now . 
I did not wonder at his speaking so to Deborah , for she was so clever but I could not bear to hear him talking so to me . 
But , you see , he saw what we did not that it was killing my mother . 
but she still said that no one knew where their death lay in wait , and that we were not to think hers was near . 
We did not think it , but we knew it , as we saw her fading away . 
Well , my dear , it's very foolish of me , I know , when in all likelihood I am so near seeing her again . 
It was a large , soft , white Indian shawl , with just a little narrow border all round just what my mother would have liked . 
At first , he took no notice and we tried to make a kind of light careless talk about the shawl , opening it out and admiring it . 
Then , suddenly , he got up , and spoke 'She shall be buried in it , he said 'Peter shall have that comfort and she would have liked it . 
Well , perhaps it was not reasonable , but what could we do or say ? One gives people in grief their own way . 
He took it up and felt it 'It is just such a shawl as she wished for when she was married , and her mother did not give it her . 
I did not know of it till after , or she should have had it she should but she shall have it now . 
Deborah said to me , the day of my mother's funeral , that if she had a hundred offers she never would marry and leave my father . 
It was not very likely she would have so many I don't know that she had one but it was not less to her credit to say so . 
She was such a daughter to my father as I think there never was before or since . 
His eyes failed him , and she read book after book , and wrote , and copied , and was always at his service in any parish business . 
She could do many more things than my poor mother could she even once wrote a letter to the bishop for my father . 
But he missed my mother sorely the whole parish noticed it . 
Not that he was less active I think he was more so , and more patient in helping every one . 
But my father was a changed man . 
Did Mr Peter ever come home ? Yes , once . 
He came home a lieutenant he did not get to be admiral . 
And he and my father were such friends ! My father took him into every house in the parish , he was so proud of him . 
He never walked out without Peter's arm to lean upon . 
, and say she was quite put in a corner . 
Not but what my father always wanted her when there was letter writing or reading to be done , or anything to be settled . 
And then ? said I , after a pause . 
Poor Deborah ! And Mr Peter ? asked I. Oh , there was some great war in India I forget what they call it and we have never heard of Peter since then . 
I believe he is dead myself and it sometimes fidgets me that we have never put on mourning for him . 
That's Martha back ? No ! I'LL go , my dear I can always find my way in the dark , you know . 
And a blow of fresh air at the door will do my head good , and it's rather got a trick of aching . 
I had lighted the candle , to give the room a cheerful appearance against her return . 
Was it Martha ? asked I. Yes . 
And I am rather uncomfortable , for I heard such a strange noise , just as I was opening the door . 
Where ? I asked , for her eyes were round with affright . 
In the street just outside it sounded like Talking ? I put in , as she hesitated a little . 
She was quite unconscious of it herself , and looked at us , with bland satisfaction . 
Miss Betty Barker was the daughter of the old clerk at Cranford who had officiated in Mr Jenkyns's time . 
Lady Arley , for instance , would occasionally give Miss Barkers the pattern of an old cap of hers , which they immediately copied and circulated among the elite of Cranford . 
I say the ELITE , for Miss Barkers had caught the trick of the place , and piqued themselves upon their aristocratic connection . 
They would not sell their caps and ribbons to anyone without a pedigree . 
Miss Barkers , who confined themselves to truth , and did not approve of miscellaneous customers , throve notwithstanding . 
They were self denying , good people . 
carrying out some delicate mess to a poor person . 
They only aped their betters in having nothing to do with the class immediately below theirs . 
And when Miss Barker died , their profits and income were found to be such that Miss Betty was justified in shutting up shop and retiring from business . 
set up her cow a mark of respectability in Cranford almost as decided as setting up a gig is among some people . 
It was five or six years since she had given up shop , so in any other place than Cranford her dress might have been considered PASSEE . 
And now Miss Betty Barker had called to invite Miss Matty to tea at her house on the following Tuesday . 
She prefaced this invitation with so many apologies that she quite excited my curiosity . 
Her presumption was to be excused . 
No ! it was simply to extend her invitation to Miss Matty and to me . 
Miss Matty bowed acceptance and I wondered that , in the graceful action , she did not feel the unusual weight and extraordinary height of her head dress . 
Mrs Jamieson is coming , I think you said ? asked Miss Matty . 
Mrs Jamieson most kindly and condescendingly said she would be happy to come . 
One little stipulation she made , that she should bring Carlo . 
I told her that if I had a weakness , it was for dogs . 
And Miss Pole ? questioned Miss Matty , who was thinking of her pool at Preference , in which Carlo would not be available as a partner . 
I am going to ask Miss Pole . 
Of course , I could not think of asking her until I had asked you , madam the rector's daughter , madam . 
Believe me , I do not forget the situation my father held under yours . 
And Mrs Forrester , of course ? And Mrs Forrester . 
I thought , in fact , of going to her before I went to Miss Pole . 
Although her circumstances are changed , madam , she was born at Tyrrell , and we can never forget her alliance to the Bigges , of Bigelow Hall . 
Miss Matty cared much more for the little circumstance of her being a very good card player . 
Mrs Fitz Adam I suppose No , madam . 
I must draw a line somewhere . 
Mrs Jamieson would not , I think , like to meet Mrs Fitz Adam . 
I have the greatest respect for Mrs Fitz Adam but I cannot think her fit society for such ladies as Mrs Jamieson and Miss Matilda Jenkyns . 
Miss Betty Barker bowed low to Miss Matty , and pursed up her mouth . 
She looked at me with sidelong dignity , as much as to say , although a retired milliner , she was no democrat , and understood the difference of ranks . 
And with a swimming curtsey Miss Betty Barker took her leave . 
Miss Betty told me it was to be a choice and select few , said Miss Pole , as she and Miss Matty compared notes . 
Yes , so she said . 
Not even Mrs Fitz Adam . 
Now Mrs Fitz Adam was the widowed sister of the Cranford surgeon , whom I have named before . 
Their parents were respectable farmers , content with their station . 
The name of these good people was Hoggins . 
Soon after Miss Mary Hoggins married Mr Fitz Adam , she disappeared from the neighbourhood for many years . 
She did not move in a sphere in Cranford society sufficiently high to make any of us care to know what Mr Fitz Adam was . 
He died and was gathered to his fathers without our ever having thought about him at all . 
I remember the convocation of ladies who assembled to decide whether or not Mrs Fitz Adam should be called upon by the old blue blooded inhabitants of Cranford . 
Mrs Forrester continued on the same side . 
Fitz Adam ! it was a pretty name , and she thought it very probably meant 'Child of Adam . 
She had been afraid he would die a bachelor , he was so very choice . 
Mrs Fitz Adam did not stand a chance of meeting with a Mr Fitz anything in Cranford , so that could not have been her motive for settling there . 
So everybody called upon Mrs Fitz Adam everybody but Mrs Jamieson , who used to show how honourable she was by never seeing Mrs Fitz Adam when they met at the Cranford parties . 
Still Mrs Fitz Adam persevered . 
The spring evenings were getting bright and long when three or four ladies in calashes met at Miss Barker's door . 
Do you know what a calash is ? It is a covering worn over caps , not unlike the heads fastened on old fashioned gigs but sometimes it is not quite so large . 
We were silent too , so that we could hear loud , suppressed whispers inside Miss Barker's house Wait , Peggy ! wait till I've run upstairs and washed my hands . 
When I cough , open the door I'll not be a minute . 
And , true enough it was not a minute before we heard a noise , between a sneeze and a crow on which the door flew open . 
Behind it stood a round eyed maiden , all aghast at the honourable company of calashes , who marched in without a word . 
She recovered presence of mind enough to usher us into a small room , which had been the shop , but was now converted into a temporary dressing room . 
There she sat , as stately and composed as though we had never heard that odd sounding cough , from which her throat must have been even then sore and rough . 
Kind , gentle , shabbily dressed Mrs Forrester was immediately conducted to the second place of honour a seat arranged something like Prince Albert's near the Queen's good , but not so good . 
When Peggy came in , tottering under the weight of the tea tray , I noticed that Miss Barker was sadly afraid lest Peggy should not keep her distance sufficiently . 
The tea tray was abundantly loaded I was pleased to see it , I was so hungry but I was afraid the ladies present might think it vulgarly heaped up . 
I know they would have done at their own houses but somehow the heaps disappeared here . 
She always gave us Savoy biscuits . 
After tea there was some little demur and difficulty . 
We were six in number four could play at Preference , and for the other two there was Cribbage . 
, were anxious to be of the pool . 
Even Miss Barker , while declaring she did not know Spadille from Manille , was evidently hankering to take a hand . 
The dilemma was soon put an end to by a singular kind of noise . 
Carlo lay and snorted , and started at his mistress's feet . 
He , too , was quite at home . 
It was very difficult to steer clear between Mrs Forrester's deafness and Mrs Jamieson's sleepiness . 
But Miss Barker managed her arduous task well . 
Peggy came in once more , red with importance . 
Miss Barker , in her former sphere , had , I daresay , been made acquainted with the beverage they call cherry brandy . 
Shell fish are sometimes thought not very wholesome . 
We all shook our heads like female mandarins but , at last , Mrs Jamieson suffered herself to be persuaded , and we followed her lead . 
It's very strong , said Miss Pole , as she put down her empty glass I do believe there's spirit in it . 
Only a little drop just necessary to make it keep , said Miss Barker . 
You know we put brandy pepper over our preserves to make them keep . 
I often feel tipsy myself from eating damson tart . 
My sister in law , Lady Glenmire , is coming to stay with me . 
There was a chorus of Indeed ! and then a pause . 
We felt very pleasantly excited on the present occasion . 
Not long after this the maids and the lanterns were announced . 
Mrs Jamieson had the sedan chair , which had squeezed itself into Miss Barker's narrow lobby with some difficulty , and most literally stopped the way . 
to edge , and back , and try at it again , and finally to succeed in carrying their burden out of Miss Barker's front door . 
CHAPTER VIII YOUR LADYSHIP EARLY the next morning directly after twelve Miss Pole made her appearance at Miss Matty's . 
Some very trifling piece of business was alleged as a reason for the call but there was evidently something behind . 
At last out it came . 
By the way , you'll think I'm strangely ignorant but , do you really know , I am puzzled how we ought to address Lady Glenmire . 
It is so long ago , she said . 
Dear ! dear ! how stupid I am ! I don't think I ever saw her more than twice . 
I know we used to call Sir Peter , 'Sir Peter' but he came much oftener to see us than Lady Arley did . 
Deborah would have known in a minute . 
It sounds very strange , and as if it was not natural . 
I never thought of it before but , now you have named it , I am all in a puzzle . 
It was very certain Miss Pole would obtain no wise decision from Miss Matty , who got more bewildered every moment , and more perplexed as to etiquettes of address . 
Well , I really think , said Miss Pole , I had better just go and tell Mrs Forrester about our little difficulty . 
One sometimes grows nervous and yet one would not have Lady Glenmire think we were quite ignorant of the etiquettes of high life in Cranford . 
'Lady Arley , 'Sir Peter , said Miss Matty to herself , trying to recall the old forms of words . 
Who is Lady Glenmire ? asked I. Oh , she's the widow of Mr Jamieson that's Mrs Jamieson's late husband , you know widow of his eldest brother . 
Mrs Jamieson was a Miss Walker , daughter of Governor Walker . 
It was really a relief to Miss Matty when Mrs Jamieson came on a very unpolite errand . 
Miss Matty remained puzzled and perplexed long after I had found out the object of Mrs Jamieson's visit . 
When she did understand the drift of the honourable lady's call , it was pretty to see with what quiet dignity she received the intimation thus uncourteously given . 
Mrs Jamieson was , indeed , the more flurried of the two , and I could see she was glad to take her leave . 
A little while afterwards Miss Pole returned , red and indignant . 
Well ! to be sure ! You've had Mrs Jamieson here , I find from Martha and we are not to call on Lady Glenmire . 
Yes ! I met Mrs Jamieson , half way between here and Mrs Forrester's , and she told me she took me so by surprise , I had nothing to say . 
I wish I had thought of something very sharp and sarcastic I dare say I shall to night . 
You are the daughter of a rector , at any rate , and related to the Arleys and Sir Peter might have been Viscount Arley , every one says . 
Miss Matty tried to soothe Miss Pole , but in vain . 
That lady , usually so kind and good humoured , was now in a full flow of anger . 
And I went and ordered a cap this morning , to be quite ready , said she at last , letting out the secret which gave sting to Mrs Jamieson's intimation . 
If we might not call on her , we would not even look at her , though we were dying with curiosity to know what she was like . 
We had the comfort of questioning Martha in the afternoon . 
Martha did not belong to a sphere of society whose observation could be an implied compliment to Lady Glenmire , and Martha had made good use of her eyes . 
Miss Pole said , Good gracious me ! as if we cared about a Mrs Smith but was silent as Martha resumed her speech . 
She looked up and down the church , like a bird , and nipped up her petticoats , when she came out , as quick and sharp as ever I see . 
I'll tell you what , ma'am , she's more like Mrs Deacon , at the 'Coach and Horses , nor any one . 
Hush , Martha ! said Miss Matty , that's not respectful . 
Isn't it , ma'am ? I beg pardon , I'm sure but Jem Hearn said so as well . 
He said , she was just such a sharp , stirring sort of a body Lady , said Miss Pole . 
Another Sunday passed away , and we still averted our eyes from Mrs Jamieson and her guest , and made remarks to ourselves that we thought were very severe almost too much so . 
Miss Matty was evidently uneasy at our sarcastic manner of speaking . 
Mr Mulliner himself brought them round . 
He WOULD always ignore the fact of there being a back door to any house , and gave a louder rat tat than his mistress , Mrs Jamieson . 
But before our answer was written , in came Miss Pole , with an open note in her hand . 
Ah ! I see you have got your note , too . 
I could have told my Lady Glenmire she would be glad enough of our society before a fortnight was over . 
Yes , said Miss Matty , we're asked for Tuesday evening . 
And perhaps you would just kindly bring your work across and drink tea with us that night . 
Now , if you would come , my conscience would be quite at ease , and luckily the note is not written yet . 
I saw Miss Pole's countenance change while Miss Matty was speaking . 
Don't you mean to go then ? asked she . 
Oh , no ! said , Miss Matty quietly . 
You don't either , I suppose ? I don't know , replied Miss Pole . 
It would be too flattering to Mrs Jamieson if we allowed her to suppose that what she had said affected us a week , nay ten days afterwards . 
Well ! I suppose it is wrong to be hurt and annoyed so long about anything and , perhaps , after all , she did not mean to vex us . 
But I must say , I could not have brought myself to say the things Mrs Jamieson did about our not calling . 
I really don't think I shall go . 
I thought you possessed them , too , that day Mrs Jamieson called to tell us not to go , said Miss Matty innocently . 
So we were most happy to accept , instead of regretting that we were obliged to decline . 
The expenditure on dress in Cranford was principally in that one article referred to . 
If the heads were buried in smart new caps , the ladies were like ostriches , and cared not what became of their bodies . 
I counted seven brooches myself on Miss Pole's dress . 
one fastened her net neckerchief one her collar one ornamented the front of her gown , midway between her throat and waist and another adorned the point of her stomacher . 
Where the seventh was I have forgotten , but it was somewhere about her , I am sure . 
But I am getting on too fast , in describing the dresses of the company . 
I should first relate the gathering on the way to Mrs Jamieson's . 
That lady lived in a large house just outside the town . 
A road which had known what it was to be a street ran right before the house , which opened out upon it without any intervening garden or court . 
Whatever the sun was about , he never shone on the front of that house . 
The impudence of the man ! said Miss Pole , in a low indignant whisper . 
I should like to ask him whether his mistress pays her quarter share for his exclusive use . 
We looked at her in admiration of the courage of her thought for Mr Mulliner was an object of great awe to all of us . 
He seemed never to have forgotten his condescension in coming to live at Cranford . 
Miss Jenkyns , at times , had stood forth as the undaunted champion of her sex , and spoken to him on terms of equality but even Miss Jenkyns could get no higher . 
In his pleasantest and most gracious moods he looked like a sulky cockatoo . 
He did not speak except in gruff monosyllables . 
Miss Pole ventured on a small joke as we went upstairs , intended , though addressed to us , to afford Mr Mulliner some slight amusement . 
We all smiled , in order to seem as if we felt at our ease , and timidly looked for Mr Mulliner's sympathy . 
Not a muscle of that wooden face had relaxed and we were grave in an instant . 
Mrs Jamieson's drawing room was cheerful the evening sun came streaming into it , and the large square window was clustered round with flowers . 
The chair and table legs diminished as they neared the ground , and were straight and square in all their corners . 
The chairs were all a row against the walls , with the exception of four or five which stood in a circle round the fire . 
They were railed with white bars across the back and knobbed with gold neither the railings nor the knobs invited to ease . 
There was a japanned table devoted to literature , on which lay a Bible , a Peerage , and a Prayer Book . 
, and a box painted in fond imitation of the drawings which decorate tea chests . 
Carlo lay on the worsted worked rug , and ungraciously barked at us as we entered . 
I suppose he thought we could find our way to the circle round the fire , which reminded me of Stonehenge , I don't know why . 
We were all very silent at first . 
We were thinking what we could talk about , that should be high enough to interest My Lady . 
But we were not sure if the peerage ate preserves much less knew how they were made . 
I never was there in my life , said Lady Glenmire , with a broad Scotch accent , but in a very sweet voice . 
to take us often from our home , even to Edinburgh . 
Ye'll have been in Edinburgh , maybe ? said she , suddenly brightening up with the hope of a common interest . 
We had none of us been there but Miss Pole had an uncle who once had passed a night there , which was very pleasant . 
Mrs Jamieson , meanwhile , was absorbed in wonder why Mr Mulliner did not bring the tea and at length the wonder oozed out of her mouth . 
I had better ring the bell , my dear , had not I ? said Lady Glenmire briskly . 
No I think not Mulliner does not like to be hurried . 
We should have liked our tea , for we dined at an earlier hour than Mrs Jamieson . 
I suspect Mr Mulliner had to finish the ST JAMES'S CHRONICLE before he chose to trouble himself about tea . 
His mistress fidgeted and fidgeted , and kept saying , I can't think why Mulliner does not bring tea . 
I can't think what he can be about . 
Mr Mulliner appeared in dignified surprise . 
Oh ! said Mrs Jamieson , Lady Glenmire rang the bell I believe it was for tea . 
In a few minutes tea was brought . 
Very delicate was the china , very old the plate , very thin the bread and butter , and very small the lumps of sugar . 
Sugar was evidently Mrs Jamieson's favourite economy . 
But before this happened we had had a slight disappointment . 
In the little silver jug was cream , in the larger one was milk . 
After tea we thawed down into common life subjects . 
The friendship begun over bread and butter extended on to cards . 
Lady Glenmire played Preference to admiration , and was a complete authority as to Ombre and Quadrille . 
It related to some fine old lace , the sole relic of better days , which Lady Glenmire was admiring on Mrs Forrester's collar . 
Yes , said that lady , such lace cannot be got now for either love or money made by the nuns abroad , they tell me . 
They say that they can't make it now even there . 
But perhaps they can , now they've passed the Catholic Emancipation Bill . 
But , in the meantime , I treasure up my lace very much . 
I always wash it myself . 
And once it had a narrow escape . 
Of course , your ladyship knows that such lace must never be starched or ironed . 
I could have cried , I was so vexed but I determined I would not give the lace up without a struggle for it . 
I had mixed some tartar emetic . 
I shall never forget how anxious I was for the next half hour . 
I took pussy to my own room , and spread a clean towel on the floor . 
I could have kissed her when she returned the lace to sight , very much as it had gone down . 
But now your ladyship would never guess that it had been in pussy's inside . 
Don't you find it very unpleasant walking ? asked Mrs Jamieson , as our respective servants were announced . 
It was a pretty regular question from Mrs Jamieson , who had her own carriage in the coach house , and always went out in a sedan chair to the very shortest distances . 
The answers were nearly as much a matter of course . 
Are you fond of astronomy ? Lady Glenmire asked . 
In our pattens we picked our way home with extra care that night , so refined and delicate were our perceptions after drinking tea with my lady . 
Late in November when we had returned home again , and my father was once more in good health I received a letter from Miss Matty and a very mysterious letter it was . 
She began many sentences without ending them , running them one into another , in much the same confused sort of way in which written words run together on blotting paper . 
It is just like the caps all the ladies in Cranford are wearing , and they have had theirs for a year , I dare say . 
I should have liked something newer , I confess something more like the turbans Miss Betty Barker tells me Queen Adelaide wears but it is very pretty , my dear . 
And I dare say lavender will wear better than sea green . 
Well , after all , what is dress , that we should care anything about it ? You'll tell me if you want anything , my dear . 
But , for all that , I had rather that she blamed Drumble and me than disfigured herself with a turban . 
Miss Pole was always the person , in the trio of Cranford ladies now assembled , to have had adventures . 
, but to see the new articles and report upon them , and to collect all the stray pieces of intelligence in the town . 
stepped forwards and asked if I had any business he could arrange for me . 
But wait a minute ! You have not heard half my story yet ! I was going downstairs , when who should I meet but Betty's second cousin . 
Miss Pole , then , had seen the conjuror the real , live conjuror ! and numerous were the questions we all asked her . 
How did he look ? In short , Miss Pole was the heroine of the evening , owing to her morning's encounter . 
If she was not the rose she had been near it . 
Conjuration , sleight of hand , magic , witchcraft , were the subjects of the evening . 
Miss Pole was slightly sceptical , and inclined to think there might be a scientific solution found for even the proceedings of the Witch of Endor . 
Mrs Forrester believed everything , from ghosts to death watches . 
Miss Matty ranged between the two always convinced by the last speaker . 
But Miss Pole only read the more zealously , imparting to us no more information than this Ah ! I see I comprehend perfectly . 
The next evening we were all in a little gentle flutter at the idea of the gaiety before us . 
So Miss Matty dozed , and I knitted . 
She had even copied one or two of the receipts as she called them for the different tricks , on backs of letters , ready to explain and to detect Signor Brunoni's arts . 
Many a county beauty had first swung through the minuet that she afterwards danced before Queen Charlotte in this very room . 
And a pretty bargain poor Lady Williams had of her handsome husband , if all tales were true . 
The front row was soon augmented and enriched by Lady Glenmire and Mrs Jamieson . 
What the thing was , I never could find out , but it must have been something eminently dull and tiresome . 
Mrs Jamieson was the most fortunate , for she fell asleep . 
with calm and condescending dignity , like a being of another sphere , as I heard a sentimental voice ejaculate behind me . 
Signor Brunoni had no beard but perhaps he'll come soon . 
So she lulled herself into patience . 
Meanwhile , Miss Matty had reconnoitred through her eye glass , wiped it , and looked again . 
Then she turned round , and said to me , in a kind , mild , sorrowful tone You see , my dear , turbans ARE worn . 
But we had no time for more conversation . 
The Grand Turk , as Miss Pole chose to call him , arose and announced himself as Signor Brunoni . 
I don't believe him ! exclaimed Miss Pole , in a defiant manner . 
He looked at her again , with the same dignified upbraiding in his countenance . 
I don't ! she repeated more positively than ever . 
Signor Brunoni had not got that muffy sort of thing about his chin , but looked like a close shaved Christian gentleman . 
At last Miss Matty and Mrs Forrester became perfectly awestricken . 
I sat just behind them , so I could not help hearing what they were saying . 
Mrs Forrester replied , that the same thought had crossed her mind she too was feeling very uncomfortable , it was so very strange . 
She was quite certain that it was her pocket handkerchief which was in that loaf just now and it had been in her own hand not five minutes before . 
She wondered who had furnished the bread ? She was sure it could not be Dakin , because he was the churchwarden . 
His kind face was all agape with broad smiles , and the boys around him were in chinks of laughing . 
I told Miss Matty that the Church was smiling approval , which set her mind at ease . 
I have never named Mr Hayter , the rector , because I , as a well to do and happy young woman , never came in contact with him . 
He felt so safe in their environment that he could even afford to give our party a bow as we filed out . 
Miss Pole ignored his presence , and pretended to be absorbed in convincing us that we had been cheated , and had not seen Signor Brunoni after all . 
All at once all sorts of uncomfortable rumours got afloat in the town . 
Miss Pole , who affected great bravery herself , was the principal person to collect and arrange these reports so as to make them assume their most fearful aspect . 
had doubts as to whether she really would enjoy the little adventure of having her house broken into , as she protested she should . 
There could be no doubt Signor Brunoni was a Frenchman a French spy come to discover the weak and undefended places of England , and doubtless he had his accomplices . 
For her part , she , Mrs Forrester , had always had her own opinion of Miss Pole's adventure at the George Inn seeing two men where only one was believed to be . 
Miss Matty gave it up in despair when she heard of this . 
Now she did believe that Signor Brunoni was at the bottom of it . 
One afternoon , about five o'clock , we were startled by a hasty knock at the door . 
But it was nobody but Miss Pole and Betty . 
The former came upstairs , carrying a little hand basket , and she was evidently in a state of great agitation . 
Take care of that ! said she to me , as I offered to relieve her of her basket . 
I am sure there is a plan to rob my house to night . 
I am come to throw myself on your hospitality , Miss Matty . 
Betty is going to sleep with her cousin at the 'George . 
You see , she said 'mistress , though there was a hat hanging up in the hall , and it would have been more natural to have said 'master . 
But before we retired , the two ladies rummaged up , out of the recesses of their memory , such horrid stories of robbery and murder that I quite quaked in my shoes . 
But until Lady Glenmire came to call next day we heard of nothing unusual . 
When Lady Glenmire came , we almost felt jealous of her . 
When Miss Pole heard of this , she nodded her head in great satisfaction . 
She had been sure we should hear of something happening in Cranford that night and we had heard . 
We were all sorry for Carlo , the old familiar friend who had snapped at us for so many years and the mysterious mode of his death made us very uncomfortable . 
But there was always a tinge of cynicism in Miss Pole's remarks . 
If she could neither eat nor sleep , she must be indeed out of spirits and out of health . 
She had let her house in Edinburgh , and was for the time house less , so the charge of her sister in law's comfortable abode was very convenient and acceptable . 
She described their appearance in glowing colours , and I noticed that every time she went over the story some fresh trait of villainy was added to their appearance . 
If Miss Pole was delighted to recount the events of that afternoon to all inquirers , others were not so proud of their adventures in the robbery line . 
, well , Miss Matty ! men will be men . 
Every mother's son of them wishes to be considered Samson and Solomon rolled into one too strong ever to be beaten or discomfited too wise ever to be outwitted . 
If you will notice , they have always foreseen events , though they never tell one for one's warning before the events happen . 
My father was a man , and I know the sex pretty well . 
, and , after all , Mr Hoggins is too much of a man to own that he was robbed last night . 
Not robbed ! exclaimed the chorus . 
Don't tell me ! Miss Pole exclaimed , angry that we could be for a moment imposed upon . 
Mrs Forrester had said that she asked us with some diffidence , because the roads were , she feared , very unsafe . 
There was no doubt but that a similar note was awaiting Miss Pole at home so her call was a very fortunate affair , as it enabled us to consult together . 
Mrs Forrester had made extra preparations , in acknowledgment of our exertion in coming to see her through such dangers . 
in the article of candour , we began to relate our individual fears , and the private precautions we each of us took . 
I saw Miss Matty nerving herself up for a confession and at last out it came . 
We all applauded this ingenious contrivance , and Miss Matty sank back into satisfied silence , with a look at Mrs Forrester as if to ask for HER private weakness . 
, and desired him to put it very carefully behind his pillow at night , turning the edge towards the head of the pillow . 
Still this was no confession of Mrs Forrester's peculiar timidity , and we urged her to tell us what she thought would frighten her more than anything . 
Such a look was a challenge in itself . 
Miss Pole came down upon her with indigestion , spectral illusions , optical delusions , and a great deal out of Dr Ferrier and Dr Hibbert besides . 
Not all the elder wine that ever was mulled could this night wash out the remembrance of this difference between Miss Pole and her hostess . 
The conclusion I arrived at was , that Jenny had certainly seen something beyond what a fit of indigestion would have caused . 
And not only she , but many others , had seen this headless lady , who sat by the roadside wringing her hands as in deep grief . 
At least , so I conjecture for , instead of the busy clatter usual in the operation , we tied on our cloaks as sadly as mutes at a funeral . 
, set off at such a round and merry pace , that it was all Miss Pole and I could do to keep up with them . 
She had breath for nothing beyond an imploring Don't leave me ! uttered as she clutched my arm so tightly that I could not have quitted her , ghost or no ghost . 
And I'll give you a shilling , said Miss Pole , with tremulous dignity , if you'll go by Headingley Causeway . 
It comes from living so much alone , and listening to the bug a boo stories of that Jenny of hers . 
In the afternoon Miss Pole called on Miss Matty to tell her of the adventure the real adventure they had met with on their morning's walk . 
Miss Pole had asked what he was , what he looked like . 
Mrs Roberts had been as kind as could be all throughout , but it was evident that their long residence there had been a slight inconvenience . 
Before Miss Pole left us , Miss Matty and I were as full of the morning's adventure as she was . 
she believed he was a very worthy man and a very clever surgeon . 
Indeed , we were rather proud of our doctor at Cranford , as a doctor . 
But , although we had no more fear , everybody did as much as if there was great cause for anxiety as indeed there was until Mr Hoggins took charge of him . 
Mrs Forrester made some of the bread jelly , for which she was so famous , to have ready as a refreshment in the lodgings when he should arrive . 
A present of this bread jelly was the highest mark of favour dear Mrs Forrester could confer . 
And a mould of this admirable , digestible , unique bread jelly was sent by Mrs Forrester to our poor sick conjuror . 
Somehow we all forgot to be afraid . 
I found Miss Matty covering her penny ball the ball that she used to roll under her bed with gay coloured worsted in rainbow stripes . 
My dear , said she , my heart is sad for that little careworn child . 
Although her father is a conjuror , she looks as if she had never had a good game of play in her life . 
I think 'the gang' must have left the neighbourhood , for one does not hear any more of their violence and robbery now . 
We were all of us far too full of the signor's precarious state to talk either about robbers or ghosts . 
But that was expecting too much of us we could not acknowledge that we had only had this small foundation for all our panic . 
It was a joke spoken in rather a sad tone , and I doubt if either of us smiled but I could not see Miss Matty's face by the flickering fire light . 
In a little while she continued But , after all , I have not told you the truth . 
God ordains it all , and I am very happy , my dear . 
No one has such kind friends as I , continued she , taking my hand and holding it in hers . 
I don't mean that mine has been sad , only so very different to what I expected . 
But all this is nonsense , dear ! only don't be frightened by Miss Pole from being married . 
The signora told me , one day , a good deal about their lives up to this period . 
Besides , he has never been in India , and knows nothing of the proper sit of a turban . 
Have you been in India ? said I , rather astonished . 
Oh , yes ! many a year , ma'am . 
But , indeed , ma'am , if I had known all , I don't know whether I would not rather have died there and then than gone through what I have done since . 
Yes ! Six children died off , like little buds nipped untimely , in that cruel India . 
from station to station , from Indian village to village , I went along , carrying my child . 
I had seen one of the officer's ladies with a little picture , ma'am done by a Catholic foreigner , ma'am of the Virgin and the little Saviour , ma'am . 
She had him on her arm , and her form was softly curled round him , and their cheeks touched . 
, I took out that picture and looked at it , till I could have thought the mother spoke to me , and comforted me . 
And the natives were very kind . 
But it has been a great help to us that likeness between the twins , and made a good many tricks go off well that they made up together . 
Poor little Phoebe ! said I , my thoughts going back to the baby she carried all those hundred miles . 
Jenkyns ! said I. Yes , Jenkyns . 
But , equally true , some had said that he had arrived at the dignity of Great Lama of Thibet . 
Miss Matty thought he was alive . 
I would make further inquiry . 
CHAPTER XII ENGAGED TO BE MARRIED WAS the poor Peter of Cranford the Aga Jenkyns of Chunderabaddad , or was he not ? As somebody says , that was the question . 
In my own home , whenever people had nothing else to do , they blamed me for want of discretion . 
Indiscretion was my bug bear fault . 
Everybody has a bug bear fault , a sort of standing characteristic a PIECE DE RESISTANCE for their friends to cut at and in general they cut and come again . 
I was tired of being called indiscreet and incautious and I determined for once to prove myself a model of prudence and wisdom . 
I would not even hint my suspicions respecting the Aga . 
I would collect evidence and carry it home to lay before my father , as the family friend of the two Miss Jenkynses . 
In my search after facts , I was often reminded of a description my father had once given of a ladies' committee that he had had to preside over . 
I suppose all these inquiries of mine , and the consequent curiosity excited in the minds of my friends , made us blind and deaf to what was going on around us . 
A few minutes more , and we should have gone to make the little alterations in dress usual before calling time in Cranford . 
I remember the scene and the date well . 
Marry ! Madness ! Marry ! said Miss Pole , with the decision that belonged to her character . 
Perhaps we are doing her injustice . 
No , said Miss Pole . 
I have taken care to ascertain that . 
She said her brother and Lady Glenmire had come to an understanding at last . 
'Understanding ! such a coarse word ! But my lady will have to come down to many a want of refinement . 
I have reason to believe Mr Hoggins sups on bread and cheese and beer every night . 
Marry ! said Miss Matty once again . 
Well ! I never thought of it . 
Two people that we know going to be married . 
It's coming very near ! So near that my heart stopped beating when I heard of it , while you might have counted twelve , said Miss Pole . 
One does not know whose turn may come next . 
Here , in Cranford , poor Lady Glenmire might have thought herself safe , said Miss Matty , with a gentle pity in her tones . 
Bah ! said Miss Pole , with a toss of her head . 
Don't you remember poor dear Captain Brown's song 'Tibbie Fowler , and the line 'Set her on the Tintock tap , The wind will blaw a man till her . 
That was because 'Tibbie Fowler' was rich , I think . 
Well ! there was a kind of attraction about Lady Glenmire that I , for one , should be ashamed to have . 
I put in my wonder . 
But how can she have fancied Mr Hoggins ? I am not surprised that Mr Hoggins has liked her . 
Oh ! I don't know . 
Mr Hoggins is rich , and very pleasant looking , said Miss Matty , and very good tempered and kind hearted . 
She has married for an establishment , that's it . 
I suppose she takes the surgery with it , said Miss Pole , with a little dry laugh at her own joke . 
Had he ever been to see Lady Glenmire at Mrs Jamieson's ? Chloride of lime would not purify the house in its owner's estimation if he had . 
So the wolf had got into the fold , and now he was carrying off the shepherdess . 
She was bright , and kind , and sociable , and agreeable and Mrs Jamieson was dull , and inert , and pompous , and tiresome . 
But we had acknowledged the sway of the latter so long , that it seemed like a kind of disloyalty now even to meditate disobedience to the prohibition we anticipated . 
I shall never forget the imploring expression of her eyes , as she looked at us over her pocket handkerchief . 
They said , as plain as words could speak , Don't let Nature deprive me of the treasure which is mine , although for a time I can make no use of it . 
When she and Miss Pole left us we endeavoured to subside into calmness but Miss Matty was really upset by the intelligence she had heard . 
It had not been Lady Glenmire's dress that had won Mr Hoggins's heart , for she went about on her errands of kindness more shabby than ever . 
None of the ladies in Cranford chose to sanction the marriage by congratulating either of the parties . 
We wished to ignore the whole affair until our liege lady , Mrs Jamieson , returned . 
Now Miss Matty had been only waiting for this before buying herself a new silk gown . 
I was thankful that I was on the spot now , to counteract the dazzling fascination of any yellow or scarlet silk . 
I must say a word or two here about myself . 
I have spoken of my father's old friendship for the Jenkyns family indeed , I am not sure if there was not some distant relationship . 
CHAPTER XIII STOPPED PAYMENT THE very Tuesday morning on which Mr Johnson was going to show the fashions , the post woman brought two letters to the house . 
I say the post woman , but I should say the postman's wife . 
Patience was certainly very dormant in Miss Jenkyns's mind . 
She was always expecting letters , and always drumming on the table till the post woman had called or gone past . 
Miss Matty would steal the money all in a lump into his hand , as if she were ashamed of herself . 
Miss Jenkyns gave him each individual coin separate , with a There ! that's for yourself that's for Jenny , etc . 
Miss Matty would even beckon Martha out of the kitchen while he ate his food and once , to my knowledge , winked at its rapid disappearance into a blue cotton pocket handkerchief . 
Miss Jenkyns almost scolded him if he did not leave a clean plate , however heaped it might have been , and gave an injunction with every mouthful . 
I have wandered a long way from the two letters that awaited us on the breakfast table that Tuesday morning . 
Mine was from my father . 
However , if anything had gone wrong , of course I was not to think of leaving Miss Matty while I could be of any use , etc . 
I am sure , it is very attentive of them to remember me . 
She kept turning over and admiring her letter . 
At last she spoke I remember their sending one to Deborah just like this but that I did not wonder at , for everybody knew she was so clear headed . 
Chosen a director , I think it was . 
He objected very much to Deborah's buying any , I believe . 
But she was quite the woman of business , and always judged for herself and here , you see , they have paid eight per cent . 
It is never genteel to be over curious on these occasions . 
We began to talk of Miss Matty's new silk gown . 
I was very glad that we were going early , that dear Miss Matty might have leisure for the delights of perplexity . 
The young men at Mr Johnson's had on their best looks and their best cravats , and pivoted themselves over the counter with surprising activity . 
They wanted to show us upstairs at once but on the principle of business first and pleasure afterwards , we stayed to purchase the tea . 
Here Miss Matty's absence of mind betrayed itself . 
, and consequently green tea was prohibited the house yet to day she herself asked for the obnoxious article , under the impression that she was talking about the silk . 
However , the mistake was soon rectified and then the silks were unrolled in good truth . 
One honest looking man , however , made his way up to the counter at which we stood , and boldly asked to look at a shawl or two . 
I am afraid , said she , hesitating , Whichever I choose I shall wish I had taken another . 
Look at this lovely crimson ! it would be so warm in winter . 
But spring is coming on , you know . 
Our attention was called off to our neighbour . 
The shopman was examining the note with a puzzled , doubtful air . 
Town and County Bank ! I am not sure , sir , but I believe we have received a warning against notes issued by this bank only this morning . 
I will just step and ask Mr Johnson , sir but I'm afraid I must trouble you for payment in cash , or in a note of a different bank . 
I never saw a man's countenance fall so suddenly into dismay and bewilderment . 
It was almost piteous to see the rapid change . 
Miss Matty had forgotten her silk gown in her interest for the man . 
But it was of no use . 
What bank was it ? I mean , what bank did your note belong to ? Town and County Bank . 
Let me see it , said she quietly to the shopman , gently taking it out of his hand , as he brought it back to return it to the farmer . 
Mr Johnson was very sorry , but , from information he had received , the notes issued by that bank were little better than waste paper . 
I don't understand it , said Miss Matty to me in a low voice . 
I don't understand you , sir , turning now to the shopman , who had been attending to the farmer . 
Is this a forged note ? Oh , no , ma'am . 
It is a true note of its kind but you see , ma'am , it is a joint stock bank , and there are reports out that it is likely to break . 
Mr Johnson is only doing his duty , ma'am , as I am sure Mr Dobson knows . 
But Mr Dobson could not respond to the appealing bow by any answering smile . 
He was turning the note absently over in his fingers , looking gloomily enough at the parcel containing the lately chosen shawl . 
It's hard upon a poor man , said he , as earns every farthing with the sweat of his brow . 
However , there's no help for it . 
You must take back your shawl , my man Lizzle must go on with her cloak for a while . 
The shopman whispered a word or two across the table to Miss Matty . 
She looked at him with a dubious air . 
Perhaps so , said she . 
It is only going without my gown a few days longer , she continued , speaking to me . 
Then , I have no doubt , everything will be cleared up . 
The man looked at her with silent gratitude too awkward to put his thanks into words but he hung back for a minute or two , fumbling with his note . 
No hope of that , my friend , said the shopman . 
The more reason why I should take it , said Miss Matty quietly . 
She pushed her sovereigns towards the man , who slowly laid his note down in exchange . 
I will wait a day or two before I purchase any of these silks perhaps you will then have a greater choice . 
My dear , will you come upstairs ? We inspected the fashions with as minute and curious an interest as if the gown to be made after them had been bought . 
I could not see that the little event in the shop below had in the least damped Miss Matty's curiosity as to the make of sleeves or the sit of skirts . 
, come on the same errand as ourselves . 
But she quickly took her departure , because , as she said , she had a bad headache , and did not feel herself up to conversation . 
However , we walked home very silently . 
I am ashamed to say , I believe I was rather vexed and annoyed at Miss Matty's conduct in taking the note to herself so decidedly . 
that indisposed us to go out again . 
She looked up rather sadly , and as if I had thrown a new perplexity into her already distressed mind and for a minute or two she did not speak . 
You know , love , I'm not like Deborah . 
If Deborah had lived , I've no doubt she would have seen after them , before they had got themselves into this state . 
We had neither of us much appetite for dinner , though we tried to talk cheerfully about indifferent things . 
When we returned into the drawing room , Miss Matty unlocked her desk and began to look over her account books . 
By and by she shut the book , locked the desk , and came and drew a chair to mine , where I sat in moody sorrow over the fire . 
I stole my hand into hers she clasped it , but did not speak a word . 
I squeezed her hand hard and tight . 
I did not know what to say . 
I felt her fingers work convulsively in my grasp and I knew she was going to speak again . 
I heard the sobs in her voice as she said , I hope it's not wrong not wicked but , oh ! I am so glad poor Deborah is spared this . 
She could not have borne to come down in the world she had such a noble , lofty spirit . 
This was all she said about the sister who had insisted upon investing their little property in that unlucky bank . 
We were later in lighting the candle than usual that night , and until that light shamed us into speaking , we sat together very silently and sadly . 
, talking of that never ending wonder , Lady Glenmire's engagement . 
Miss Matty was almost coming round to think it a good thing . 
I don't mean to deny that men are troublesome in a house . 
The church clock pealed out two before I had done . 
The next morning news came , both official and otherwise , that the Town and County Bank had stopped payment . 
Poor Martha ! I think she'll be sorry to leave me . 
Miss Matty smiled at me through her tears , and she would fain have had me see only the smile , not the tears . 
At last I got the address , spelt by sound , and very queer it looked . 
It was gone from me like life , never to be recalled . 
I hastened home , that Miss Matty might not miss me . 
Martha opened the door to me , her face swollen with crying . 
I'll never leave her ! No I won't . 
I telled her so , and said I could not think how she could find in her heart to give me warning . 
I could not have had the face to do it , if I'd been her . 
I might ha' been just as good for nothing as Mrs Fitz Adam's Rosy , who struck for wages after living seven years and a half in one place . 
Don't , 'but Martha' me , she replied to my deprecatory tone . 
Listen to reason I'll not listen to reason , she said , now in full possession of her voice , which had been rather choked with sobbing . 
Reason always means what someone else has got to say . 
Now I think what I've got to say is good enough reason but reason or not , I'll say it , and I'll stick to it . 
I've money in the Savings Bank , and I've a good stock of clothes , and I'm not going to leave Miss Matty . 
Well said I at last . 
I'm thankful you begin with 'well ! If you'd have begun with 'but , as you did afore , I'd not ha' listened to you . 
Now you may go on . 
I know you would be a great loss to Miss Matty , Martha I telled her so . 
A loss she'd never cease to be sorry for , broke in Martha triumphantly . 
I tell you this , Martha , because I feel you are like a friend to dear Miss Matty , but you know she might not like to have it spoken about . 
But I'll be up to her . 
Never you tell , but I'll make her a pudding , and a pudding she'll like , too , and I'll pay for it myself so mind you see she eats it . 
Many a one has been comforted in their sorrow by seeing a good dish come upon the table . 
She began to tie on a clean apron , and otherwise prepare herself for going to the shop for the butter , eggs , and what else she might require . 
I found Miss Matty very quiet , and not a little sad but by and by she tried to smile for my sake . 
For my part , I was more ambitious and less contented . 
Teaching was , of course , the first thing that suggested itself . 
If Miss Matty could teach children anything , it would throw her among the little elves in whom her soul delighted . 
I ran over her accomplishments . 
But that was her nearest approach to the accomplishment of drawing , and I did not think it would go very far . 
, of coloured paper , cut so as to resemble feathers , and knitting garters in a variety of dainty stitches . 
I doubted her power of getting through a genealogical chapter , with any number of coughs . 
I pondered and pondered until dinner was announced by Martha , with a face all blubbered and swollen with crying . 
But to day everything was attended to with the most careful regard . 
Martha burst out of the room , and Miss Matty had to clear her voice once or twice before she could speak . 
I am sure , dear , I have seen uglier things under a glass shade before now , said she . 
, and we both fell to upon the pudding , which was indeed excellent only every morsel seemed to choke us , our hearts were so full . 
We had too much to think about to talk much that afternoon . 
It passed over very tranquilly . 
But when the tea urn was brought in a new thought came into my head . 
Tea was neither greasy nor sticky grease and stickiness being two of the qualities which Miss Matty could not endure . 
No shop window would be required . 
Neither was tea a heavy article , so as to tax Miss Matty's fragile strength . 
The only thing against my plan was the buying and selling involved . 
After a little while Martha came in , dragging after her a great tall young man , all crimson with shyness , and finding his only relief in perpetually sleeking down his hair . 
And please , ma'am , he wants to marry me off hand . 
It's not that , broke in Jem . 
It's that you've taken me all on a sudden , and I didn't think for to get married so soon and such quick words does flabbergast a man . 
, only Martha has such quick ways with her when once she takes a thing into her head and marriage , ma'am marriage nails a man , as one may say . 
I dare say I shan't mind it after it's once over . 
Miss Matty began Marriage is a very solemn thing , Martha . 
It is indeed , ma'am , quoth Jem . 
Not that I've no objections to Martha . 
And I'm sure neither she nor I can ever forget your kindness nor your's either , Jem . 
And when I came to the writing I could hardly understand the meaning , it was so involved and oracular . 
I went as requested to Miss Pole's . 
The door was opened to me by her little maid Lizzy in Sunday trim , as if some grand event was impending over this work day . 
And the drawing room upstairs was arranged in accordance with this idea . 
The table was set out with the best green card cloth , and writing materials upon it . 
On the little chiffonier was a tray with a newly decanted bottle of cowslip wine , and some ladies' finger biscuits . 
Miss Pole herself was in solemn array , as if to receive visitors , although it was only eleven o'clock . 
Mrs Forrester was there , crying quietly and sadly , and my arrival seemed only to call forth fresh tears . 
Before we had finished our greetings , performed with lugubrious mystery of demeanour , there was another rat tat tat , and Mrs Fitz Adam appeared , crimson with walking and excitement . 
I wish Mrs Jamieson was here ! said Mrs Forrester at last but to judge from Mrs Fitz Adam's face , she could not second the wish . 
Miss Pole concluded her address , and looked round for approval and agreement . 
I have expressed your meaning , ladies , have I not ? And while Miss Smith considers what reply to make , allow me to offer you some little refreshment . 
The worst was , all the ladies cried in concert . 
Even Miss Pole cried , who had said a hundred times that to betray emotion before any one was a sign of weakness and want of self control . 
As it was , Mrs Forrester was the person to speak when we had recovered our composure . 
I only wish it was more my dear Mary , I do indeed . 
Now I saw why paper , pens , and ink were provided . 
Every lady wrote down the sum she could give annually , signed the paper , and sealed it mysteriously . 
If their proposal was acceded to , my father was to be allowed to open the papers , under pledge of secrecy . 
If not , they were to be returned to their writers . 
When the ceremony had been gone through , I rose to depart but each lady seemed to wish to have a private conference with me . 
A few hearty inquiries after Miss Matty's health concluded my interview with Miss Pole . 
She had not liked to put down all that she could afford and was ready to give . 
She told me she thought she never could look Miss Matty in the face again if she presumed to be giving her so much as she should like to do . 
And my brother would be delighted to doctor her for nothing medicines , leeches , and all . 
would do anything for her . 
She had taken very little note of time , however , as she had been occupied in numberless little arrangements preparatory to the great step of giving up her house . 
and those who were suffering like her . 
Indeed , of the two , she seemed to think poverty a lighter burden than self reproach but I privately doubted if the directors would agree with her . 
However , we arranged things a little in order as to their pecuniary estimation , and were all ready for my father when he came the next morning . 
Then he turned abruptly round , and said , See , Mary , how a good , innocent life makes friends all around . 
You and I will have a walk after lunch and talk a bit more about these plans . 
The lunch a hot savoury mutton chop , and a little of the cold loin sliced and fried was now brought in . 
Every morsel of this last dish was finished , to Martha's great gratification . 
Only let me see what I can do , and pay the poor people as far as I'm able . 
I gave her a hearty kiss , and ran after my father . 
The result of our conversation was this . 
About the sale , my father was dubious at first . 
, my father grasped at it with all the energy of a tradesman . 
I evidently rose in his estimation for having made this bright suggestion . 
I only hoped we should not both fall in Miss Matty's . 
But she was patient and content with all our arrangements . 
My father and I had agreed to say as little as possible about the bank , indeed never to mention it again , if it could be helped . 
One good thing about it was , she did not think men ever bought tea and it was of men particularly she was afraid . 
Even Mrs Jamieson's approval of her selling tea had been gained . 
That oracle had taken a few days to consider whether by so doing Miss Matty would forfeit her right to the privileges of society in Cranford . 
So Cranford was allowed to visit Miss Matty and , whether allowed or not , it intended to visit Lady Glenmire . 
She said it only convinced her of what she had known from the first , that the creature had a low taste . 
I am not sure if Martha and Jem looked more radiant in the afternoon , when they , too , made their first appearance . 
Miss Matty's sale went off famously . 
bought in for her at the sale by an unknown friend . 
I had expended my own small store in buying all manner of comfits and lozenges , in order to tempt the little people whom Miss Matty loved so much to come about her . 
Tea in bright green canisters , and comfits in tumblers Miss Matty and I felt quite proud as we looked round us on the evening before the shop was to be opened . 
Martha had scoured the boarded floor to a white cleanness , and it was adorned with a brilliant piece of oil cloth , on which customers were to stand before the table counter . 
The wholesome smell of plaster and whitewash pervaded the apartment . 
But to return to Miss Matty . 
It was really very pleasant to see how her unselfishness and simple sense of justice called out the same good qualities in others . 
She never seemed to think any one would impose upon her , because she should be so grieved to do it to them . 
People would have felt as much ashamed of presuming on her good faith as they would have done on that of a child . 
But my father says such simplicity might be very well in Cranford , but would never do in the world . 
I just stayed long enough to establish Miss Matty in her new mode of life , and to pack up the library , which the rector had purchased . 
Moreover , she had never been told of the way in which her friends were contributing to pay the rent . 
I left Miss Matty with a good heart . 
Her sales of tea during the first two days had surpassed my most sanguine expectations . 
The whole country round seemed to be all out of tea at once . 
But the final argument , which settled the question , was a happy reference of mine to the train oil and tallow candles which the Esquimaux not only enjoy but digest . 
I went over from Drumble once a quarter at least to settle the accounts , and see after the necessary business letters . 
I only hoped the letter was lost . 
About a year after Miss Matty set up shop , I received one of Martha's hieroglyphics , begging me to come to Cranford very soon . 
I was afraid that Miss Matty was ill , and went off that very afternoon , and took Martha by surprise when she saw me on opening the door . 
I call it singing , but I dare say a musician would not use that word to the tuneless yet sweet humming of the low worn voice . 
I found , after we had had a little conversation , that it was as Martha said , and that Miss Matty had no idea of the approaching household event . 
I think that must be an hereditary quality , for my father says he is scarcely ever wrong . 
One morning , within a week after I arrived , I went to call Miss Matty , with a little bundle of flannel in my arms . 
She could not banish the thought of the surprise all day , but went about on tiptoe , and was very silent . 
I had a busy life while Martha was laid up . 
I attended on Miss Matty , and prepared her meals I cast up her accounts , and examined into the state of her canisters and tumblers . 
I helped her , too , occasionally , in the shop and it gave me no small amusement , and sometimes a little uneasiness , to watch her ways there . 
So I remembered the green tea , and winged my shaft with a feather out of her own plumage . 
I told her how unwholesome almond comfits were , and how ill excess in them might make the little children . 
The counter was quite loaded with these offerings sometimes , as she told me . 
As for Cranford in general , it was going on much as usual . 
The Jamieson and Hoggins feud still raged , if a feud it could be called , when only one side cared much about it . 
But Mrs Jamieson considered their very happiness an insult to the Glenmire family , to which she had still the honour to belong , and she doggedly refused and rejected every advance . 
Mr Mulliner , like a faithful clansman , espoused his mistress' side with ardour . 
Miss Pole grew quite impatient for some indisposition or accident to befall Mrs Jamieson or her dependents , in order that Cranford might see how she would act under the perplexing circumstances . 
He took out a double eyeglass and peered about for some time before he could discover it . 
He did so to Miss Matty when he first came in . 
His glance had first caught and lingered a little upon me , but then turned , with the peculiar searching look I have described , to Miss Matty . 
She was a little fluttered and nervous , but no more so than she always was when any man came into her shop . 
She looked up to remonstrate . 
Something of tender relaxation in his face struck home to her heart . 
She said , It is oh , sir ! can you be Peter ? and trembled from head to foot . 
In a moment he was round the table and had her in his arms , sobbing the tearless cries of old age . 
I brought her a glass of wine , for indeed her colour had changed so as to alarm me and Mr Peter too . 
He kept saying , I have been too sudden for you , Matty I have , my little girl . 
I proposed that she should go at once up into the drawing room and lie down on the sofa there . 
I had also to break the news to Martha , who received it with a burst of tears which nearly infected me . 
Something of the same kind perplexed Miss Matty at tea time , when she was installed in the great easy chair opposite to Mr Jenkyns in order to gaze her fill . 
She could hardly drink for looking at him , and as for eating , that was out of the question . 
I suppose hot climates age people very quickly , said she , almost to herself . 
When you left Cranford you had not a grey hair in your head . 
But how many years ago is that ? said Mr Peter , smiling . 
Ah , true ! yes , I suppose you and I are getting old . 
She said , I'm afraid I'm too old but it was very kind of you to think of it . 
They are just what I should have liked years ago when I was young . 
So I thought , my little Matty . 
I remembered your tastes they were so like my dear mother's . 
But at my movement , he started up . 
I must go and settle about a room at the 'George . 
My carpet bag is there too . 
Peter sat down again and gave her his hand , which for better security she held in both of hers , and I left the room to accomplish my arrangements . 
Long , long into the night , far , far into the morning , did Miss Matty and I talk . 
She had much to tell me of her brother's life and adventures , which he had communicated to her as they had sat alone . 
I don't believe Mr Peter came home from India as rich as a nabob he even considered himself poor , but neither he nor Miss Matty cared much about that . 
At any rate , he had enough to live upon very genteelly at Cranford he and Miss Matty together . 
, My dear children , don't make yourselves ill but a strong arm pulled her back , and a more rattling shower than ever succeeded . 
The Indian muslin gown was reserved for darling Flora Gordon . 
I myself was not forgotten . 
CHAPTER XVI PEACE TO CRANFORD IT was not surprising that Mr Peter became such a favourite at Cranford . 
I noticed also that when the rector came to call , Mr Peter talked in a different way about the countries he had been in . 
But I don't think the ladies in Cranford would have considered him such a wonderful traveller if they had only heard him talk in the quiet way he did to him . 
They liked him the better , indeed , for being what they called so very Oriental . 
Miss Pole's consent was eagerly given , and down he went with the utmost gravity . 
The mention of that gentleman's name recalls to my mind a conversation between Mr Peter and Miss Matty one evening in the summer after he returned to Cranford . 
The day had been very hot , and Miss Matty had been much oppressed by the weather , in the heat of which her brother revelled . 
, enjoying the game of play for which they had not had spirits during the heat of the day . 
It was a source of satisfaction to Miss Matty to see how few candles were lighted , even in the apartments of those houses from which issued the greatest signs of life . 
Why , what's this ? you're shivering and shaking , Matty , with that confounded open window . 
Shut it , Mary , this minute ! I did so , and then stooped down to kiss Miss Matty , and see if she really were chilled . 
I was to leave Cranford the next day , and before I went I saw that all the effects of the open window had quite vanished . 
I had superintended most of the alterations necessary in the house and household during the latter weeks of my stay . 
The shop was once more a parlour the empty resounding rooms again furnished up to the very garrets . 
There had been some talk of establishing Martha and Jem in another house , but Miss Matty would not hear of this . 
Indeed , I never saw her so much roused as when Miss Pole had assumed it to be the most desirable arrangement . 
And as for the probable children , if they would all turn out such little darlings as her god daughter , Matilda , she should not mind the number , if Martha didn't . 
Besides , the next was to be called Deborah a point which Miss Matty had reluctantly yielded to Martha's stubborn determination that her first born was to be Matilda . 
I received two Cranford letters on one auspicious October morning . 
, his new wife , who as such must allow Mrs Gordon to desire to make her acquaintance , and who was , moreover , an old Scotch friend of her husband's . 
Indeed , Mrs Jamieson rather took it as a compliment , as putting Miss Betty on a level with those Hogginses . 
But Mr Peter was a man of resources . 
Mrs Fitz Adam was as pleased as could be , and thanked Miss Matty over and over again . 
Mr Peter had said , Leave Mrs Jamieson to me so we did especially as we knew nothing that we could do to alter her determination if once formed . 
Miss Pole had picked this piece of news up , and from it she conjectured all sorts of things , and bemoaned yet more . 
He had the proof sheet of a great placard in his hand . 
Signor Brunoni , Magician to the King of Delhi , the Rajah of Oude , and the great Lama of Thibet , c . 
He had written to ask the signor to come , and was to be at all the expenses of the affair . 
Tickets were to be sent gratis to as many as the room would hold . 
But I I looked only at the fatal words UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF THE HONOURABLE MRS JAMIESON . 
So , angry and irritated , and exaggerating every little incident which could add to my irritation , I went on till we were all assembled in the great parlour at the George . 
I had never seen Mrs Jamieson so roused and animated before her face looked full of interest in what Mr Peter was saying . 
I drew near to listen . 
My relief was great when I caught that his words were not words of love , but that , for all his grave face , he was at his old tricks . 
I suppose she required strong stimulants to excite her to come out of her apathy . 
I consider Mrs Jamieson fair game , and besides I am bent on propitiating her , and the first step towards it is keeping her well awake . 
I want everybody to be friends , for it harasses Matty so much to hear of these quarrels . 
I shall go at it again by and by , so you need not look shocked . 
I intend to enter the Assembly Room to night with Mrs Jamieson on one side , and my lady , Mrs Hoggins , on the other . 
You see if I don't . 
Somehow or another he did and fairly got them into conversation together . 
Major and Mrs Gordon helped at the good work with their perfect ignorance of any existing coolness between any of the inhabitants of Cranford . 
Ever since that day there has been the old friendly sociability in Cranford society which I am thankful for , because of my dear Miss Matty's love of peace and kindliness . 
We all love Miss Matty , and I somehow think we are all of us better when she is near us . 
