The series of novels I projected being mainly of the kind called local , they seemed to require a territorial definition of some sort to lend unity to their scene . 
I did not anticipate that this application of the word to a modern use would extend outside the chapters of my own chronicles . 
But the name was soon taken up elsewhere as a local designation . 
For these the indispensable conditions of existence are attachment to the soil of one particular spot by generation after generation . 
His Christian name was Gabriel , and on working days he was a young man of sound judgment , easy motions , proper dress , and general good character . 
He wore a low crowned felt hat , spread out at the base by tight jamming upon the head for security in high winds , and a coat like Dr . 
This instrument being several years older than Oak's grandfather , had the peculiarity of going either too fast or not at all . 
In his face one might notice that many of the hues and curves of youth had tarried on to manhood there even remained in his remoter crannies some relics of the boy . 
His height and breadth would have been sufficient to make his presence imposing , had they been exhibited with due consideration . 
This may be said to be a defect in an individual if he depends for his valuation more upon his appearance than upon his capacity to wear well , which Oak did not . 
He had just reached the time of life at which young is ceasing to be the prefix of man in speaking of one . 
In short , he was twenty eight , and a bachelor . 
The field he was in this morning sloped to a ridge called Norcombe Hill . 
Through a spur of this hill ran the highway between Emminster and Chalk Newton . 
The waggon was laden with household goods and window plants , and on the apex of the whole sat a woman , young and attractive . 
Gabriel had not beheld the sight for more than half a minute , when the vehicle was brought to a standstill just beneath his eyes . 
The tailboard of the waggon is gone , Miss , said the waggoner . 
Then I heard it fall , said the girl , in a soft , though not particularly low voice . 
I heard a noise I could not account for when we were coming up the hill . 
The sensible horses stood perfectly still , and the waggoner's steps sank fainter and fainter in the distance . 
There was also a cat in a willow basket , from the partly opened lid of which she gazed with half closed eyes , and affectionately surveyed the small birds around . 
Then she looked attentively downwards . 
It was not at the bird , nor at the cat it was at an oblong package tied in paper , and lying between them . 
She turned her head to learn if the waggoner were coming . 
He was not yet in sight and her eyes crept back to the package , her thoughts seeming to run upon what was inside it . 
At length she drew the article into her lap , and untied the paper covering a small swing looking glass was disclosed , in which she proceeded to survey herself attentively . 
She parted her lips and smiled . 
It was a fine morning , and the sun lighted up to a scarlet glow the crimson jacket she wore , and painted a soft lustre upon her bright face and dark hair . 
She blushed at herself , and seeing her reflection blush , blushed the more . 
The picture was a delicate one . 
Woman's prescriptive infirmity had stalked into the sunlight , which had clothed it in the freshness of an originality . 
A cynical inference was irresistible by Gabriel Oak as he regarded the scene , generous though he fain would have been . 
There was no necessity whatever for her looking in the glass . 
The waggoner's steps were heard returning . 
She put the glass in the paper , and the whole again into its place . 
About twenty steps still remained between him and the gate , when he heard a dispute . 
It was a difference concerning twopence between the persons with the waggon and the man at the toll bar . 
Mis'ess's niece is upon the top of the things , and she says that's enough that I've offered ye , you great miser , and she won't pay any more . 
These were the waggoner's words . 
Very well then mis'ess's niece can't pass , said the turnpike keeper , closing the gate . 
Oak looked from one to the other of the disputants , and fell into a reverie . 
There was something in the tone of twopence remarkably insignificant . 
He looked up at her then she heard his words , and looked down . 
Gabriel's features adhered throughout their form so exactly to the middle line between the beauty of St . 
The red jacketed and dark haired maiden seemed to think so too , for she carelessly glanced over him , and told her man to drive on . 
The gatekeeper surveyed the retreating vehicle . 
That's a handsome maid , he said to Oak . 
But she has her faults , said Gabriel . 
And the greatest of them is well , what it is always . 
Beating people down ? ay , 'tis so . 
What , then ? Gabriel , perhaps a little piqued by the comely traveller's indifference , glanced back to where he had witnessed her performance over the hedge , and said , Vanity . 
CHAPTER II NIGHT THE FLOCK AN INTERIOR ANOTHER INTERIOR IT was nearly midnight on the eve of St . 
Thomas's , the shortest day in the year . 
A desolating wind wandered from the north over the hill whereon Oak had watched the yellow waggon and its occupant in the sunshine of a few days earlier . 
The dry leaves in the ditch simmered and boiled in the same breezes , a tongue of air occasionally ferreting out a few , and sending them spinning across the grass . 
The sky was clear remarkably clear and the twinkling of all the stars seemed to be but throbs of one body , timed by a common pulse . 
A difference of colour in the stars oftener read of than seen in England was really perceptible here . 
The sovereign brilliancy of Sirius pierced the eye with a steely glitter , the star called Capella was yellow , Aldebaran and Betelgueux shone with a fiery red . 
To persons standing alone on a hill during a clear midnight such as this , the roll of the world eastward is almost a palpable movement . 
After such a nocturnal reconnoitre it is hard to get back to earth , and to believe that the consciousness of such majestic speeding is derived from a tiny human frame . 
Suddenly an unexpected series of sounds began to be heard in this place up against the sky . 
They had a clearness which was to be found nowhere in the wind , and a sequence which was to be found nowhere in nature . 
They were the notes of Farmer Oak's flute . 
The tune was not floating unhindered into the open air it seemed muffled in some way , and was altogether too curtailed in power to spread high or wide . 
The hut stood on little wheels , which raised its floor about a foot from the ground . 
Such shepherds' huts are dragged into the fields when the lambing season comes on , to shelter the shepherd in his enforced nightly attendance . 
It was only latterly that people had begun to call Gabriel Farmer Oak . 
The wind continued to beat about the corners of the hut , but the flute playing ceased . 
A rectangular space of light appeared in the side of the hut , and in the opening the outline of Farmer Oak's figure . 
Oak's motions , though they had a quiet energy , were slow , and their deliberateness accorded well with his occupation . 
Detached hurdles thatched with straw were stuck into the ground at various scattered points , amid and under which the whitish forms of his meek ewes moved and rustled . 
This continued till Oak withdrew again from the flock . 
The little speck of life he placed on a wisp of hay before the small stove , where a can of milk was simmering . 
Oak extinguished the lantern by blowing into it and then pinching the snuff , the cot being lighted by a candle suspended by a twisted wire . 
In about the time a person unaccustomed to bodily labour would have decided upon which side to lie , Farmer Oak was asleep . 
On a triangular shelf across the corner stood bread , bacon , cheese , and a cup for ale or cider , which was supplied from a flagon beneath . 
Beside the provisions lay the flute , whose notes had lately been called forth by the lonely watcher to beguile a tedious hour . 
The house was ventilated by two round holes , like the lights of a ship's cabin , with wood slides . 
The lamb , revived by the warmth began to bleat , and the sound entered Gabriel's ears and brain with an instant meaning , as expected sounds will . 
After placing the little creature with its mother , he stood and carefully examined the sky , to ascertain the time of night from the altitudes of the stars . 
One o'clock , said Gabriel . 
For a moment he seemed impressed with the speaking loneliness of the scene , or rather with the complete abstraction from all its compass of the sights and sounds of man . 
It was an artificial light , almost close at hand . 
Farmer Oak went towards the plantation and pushed through its lower boughs to the windy side . 
In front it was formed of board nailed to posts and covered with tar as a preservative . 
Through crevices in the roof and side spread streaks and dots of light , a combination of which made the radiance that had attracted him . 
Oak stepped up behind , where , leaning down upon the roof and putting his eye close to a hole , he could see into the interior clearly . 
The place contained two women and two cows . 
By the side of the latter a steaming bran mash stood in a bucket . 
One of the women was past middle age . 
She wore no bonnet or hat , but had enveloped herself in a large cloak , which was carelessly flung over her head as a covering . 
There , now we'll go home , said the elder of the two , resting her knuckles upon her hips , and looking at their goings on as a whole . 
I do hope Daisy will fetch round again now . 
I have never been more frightened in my life , but I don't mind breaking my rest if she recovers . 
I wish we were rich enough to pay a man to do these things , she said . 
As we are not , we must do them ourselves , said the other for you must help me if you stay . 
Well , my hat is gone , however , continued the younger . 
It went over the hedge , I think . 
The idea of such a slight wind catching it . 
The other was spotted , grey and white . 
Between the sheep and the cows Lucina had been busy on Norcombe Hill lately . 
I think we had better send for some oatmeal , said the elder woman there's no more bran . 
Yes , aunt and I'll ride over for it as soon as it is light . 
But there's no side saddle . 
I can ride on the other trust me . 
In making even horizontal and clear inspections we colour and mould according to the wants within us whatever our eyes bring in . 
Oak knew her instantly as the heroine of the yellow waggon , myrtles , and looking glass prosily , as the woman who owed him twopence . 
They placed the calf beside its mother again , took up the lantern , and went out , the light sinking down the hill till it was no more than a nebula . 
Gabriel Oak returned to his flock . 
CHAPTER III A GIRL ON HORSEBACK CONVERSATION THE sluggish day began to break . 
She was the young woman of the night before . 
Gabriel instantly thought of the hat she had mentioned as having lost in the wind possibly she had come to look for it . 
He hastily scanned the ditch and after walking about ten yards along it found the hat among the leaves . 
Gabriel took it in his hand and returned to his hut . 
Here he ensconced himself , and peeped through the loophole in the direction of the rider's approach . 
She came up and looked around then on the other side of the hedge . 
Gabriel was about to advance and restore the missing article when an unexpected performance induced him to suspend the action for the present . 
The path , after passing the cowshed , bisected the plantation . 
The rapidity of her glide into this position was that of a kingfisher its noiselessness that of a hawk . 
Gabriel's eyes had scarcely been able to follow her . 
The tall lank pony seemed used to such doings , and ambled along unconcerned . 
Thus she passed under the level boughs . 
She had no side saddle , and it was very apparent that a firm seat upon the smooth leather beneath her was unattainable sideways . 
Oak was amused , perhaps a little astonished , and hanging up the hat in his hut , went again among his ewes . 
An hour passed , the girl returned , properly seated now , with a bag of bran in front of her . 
On nearing the cattle shed she was met by a boy bringing a milking pail , who held the reins of the pony whilst she slid off . 
The boy led away the horse , leaving the pail with the young woman . 
Soon soft spirts alternating with loud spirts came in regular succession from within the shed , the obvious sounds of a person milking a cow . 
Gabriel took the lost hat in his hand , and waited beside the path she would follow in leaving the hill . 
She came , the pail in one hand , hanging against her knee . 
Like exceptional emphasis in the tone of a genius , that which would have made mediocrity ridiculous was an addition to recognised power . 
It was with some surprise that she saw Gabriel's face rising like the moon behind the hedge . 
The adjustment of the farmer's hazy conceptions of her charms to the portrait of herself she now presented him with was less a diminution than a difference . 
The starting point selected by the judgment was her height . 
All features of consequence were severe and regular . 
From the contours of her figure in its upper part , she must have had a beautiful neck and shoulders but since her infancy nobody had ever seen them . 
Had she been put into a low dress she would have run and thrust her head into a bush . 
Yet she was not a shy girl by any means it was merely her instinct to draw the line dividing the seen from the unseen higher than they do it in towns . 
That the girl's thoughts hovered about her face and form as soon as she caught Oak's eyes conning the same page was natural , and almost certain . 
The self consciousness shown would have been vanity if a little more pronounced , dignity if a little less . 
Yet it was the man who blushed , the maid not at all . 
I found a hat , said Oak . 
It is mine , said she , and , from a sense of proportion , kept down to a small smile an inclination to laugh distinctly it flew away last night . 
One o'clock this morning ? Well it was . 
How did you know ? she said . 
You are Farmer Oak , are you not ? That or thereabouts . 
I'm lately come to this place . 
I wanted my hat this morning . 
I had to ride to Tewnell Mill . 
How do you know ? I saw you . 
Where ? she inquired , a misgiving bringing every muscle of her lineaments and frame to a standstill . 
A perception caused him to withdraw his own eyes from hers as suddenly as if he had been caught in a theft . 
Recollection of the strange antics she had indulged in when passing through the trees was succeeded in the girl by a nettled palpitation , and that by a hot face . 
It was a time to see a woman redden who was not given to reddening as a rule not a point in the milkmaid but was of the deepest rose colour . 
The sympathetic man still looked the other way , and wondered when she would recover coolness sufficient to justify him in facing her again . 
He heard what seemed to be the flitting of a dead leaf upon the breeze , and looked . 
With an air between that of Tragedy and Comedy Gabriel returned to his work . 
Five mornings and evenings passed . 
The young woman came regularly to milk the healthy cow or to attend to the sick one , but never allowed her vision to stray in the direction of Oak's person . 
His want of tact had deeply offended her not by seeing what he could not help , but by letting her know that he had seen it . 
It was food for great regret with him it was also a CONTRETEMPS which touched into life a latent heat he had experienced in that direction . 
The acquaintanceship might , however , have ended in a slow forgetting , but for an incident which occurred at the end of the same week . 
One afternoon it began to freeze , and the frost increased with evening , which drew on like a stealthy tightening of bonds . 
Many a small bird went to bed supperless that night among the bare boughs . 
As the milking hour drew near , Oak kept his usual watch upon the cowshed . 
At last he felt cold , and shaking an extra quantity of bedding round the yearling ewes he entered the hut and heaped more fuel upon the stove . 
The wind came in at the bottom of the door , and to prevent it Oak laid a sack there and wheeled the cot round a little more to the south . 
Then the wind spouted in at a ventilating hole of which there was one on each side of the hut . 
Gabriel had always known that when the fire was lighted and the door closed one of these must be kept open that chosen being always on the side away from the wind . 
He fell asleep , however , without having performed the necessary preliminary . 
How long he remained unconscious Gabriel never knew . 
During the first stages of his return to perception peculiar deeds seemed to be in course of enactment . 
His dog was howling , his head was aching fearfully somebody was pulling him about , hands were loosening his neckerchief . 
On opening his eyes he found that evening had sunk to dusk in a strange manner of unexpectedness . 
The young girl with the remarkably pleasant lips and white teeth was beside him . 
More than this astonishingly more his head was upon her lap , his face and neck were disagreeably wet , and her fingers were unbuttoning his collar . 
Whatever is the matter ? said Oak , vacantly . 
She seemed to experience mirth , but of too insignificant a kind to start enjoyment . 
Nothing now , she answered , since you are not dead . 
It is a wonder you were not suffocated in this hut of yours . 
Ah , the hut ! murmured Gabriel . 
I gave ten pounds for that hut . 
You should , I think , have considered , and not have been so foolish as to leave the slides closed . 
Yes I suppose I should , said Oak , absently . 
He was endeavouring to catch and appreciate the sensation of being thus with her , his head upon her dress , before the event passed on into the heap of bygone things . 
She made him sit up , and then Oak began wiping his face and shaking himself like a Samson . 
How can I thank 'ee ? he said at last , gratefully , some of the natural rusty red having returned to his face . 
Oh , never mind that , said the girl , smiling , and allowing her smile to hold good for Gabriel's next remark , whatever that might prove to be . 
The dog saw me , and jumped over to me , and laid hold of my skirt . 
I came across and looked round the hut the very first thing to see if the slides were closed . 
My uncle has a hut like this one , and I have heard him tell his shepherd not to go to sleep without leaving a slide open . 
I opened the door , and there you were like dead . 
I threw the milk over you , as there was no water , forgetting it was warm , and no use . 
I wonder if I should have died ? Gabriel said , in a low voice , which was rather meant to travel back to himself than to her . 
Oh no ! the girl replied . 
She seemed to prefer a less tragic probability to have saved a man from death involved talk that should harmonise with the dignity of such a deed and she shunned it . 
I believe you saved my life , Miss I don't know your name . 
I know your aunt's , but not yours . 
I would just as soon not tell it rather not . 
There is no reason either why I should , as you probably will never have much to do with me . 
Still , I should like to know . 
You can inquire at my aunt's she will tell you . 
My name is Gabriel Oak . 
You seem fond of yours in speaking it so decisively , Gabriel Oak . 
You see , it is the only one I shall ever have , and I must make the most of it . 
I always think mine sounds odd and disagreeable . 
I should think you might soon get a new one . 
Mercy ! how many opinions you keep about you concerning other people , Gabriel Oak . 
Well , Miss excuse the words I thought you would like them . 
But I can't match you , I know , in napping out my mind upon my tongue . 
I never was very clever in my inside . 
Come , give me your hand . 
She hesitated , somewhat disconcerted at Oak's old fashioned earnest conclusion to a dialogue lightly carried on . 
Very well , she said , and gave him her hand , compressing her lips to a demure impassivity . 
He held it but an instant , and in his fear of being too demonstrative , swerved to the opposite extreme , touching her fingers with the lightness of a small hearted person . 
I am sorry , he said the instant after . 
What for ? Letting your hand go so quick You may have it again if you like there it is . 
She gave him her hand again . 
Oak held it longer this time indeed , curiously long . 
How soft it is being winter time , too not chapped or rough or anything ! he said . 
There that's long enough , said she , though without pulling it away . 
But I suppose you are thinking you would like to kiss it ? You may if you want to . 
I wasn't thinking of any such thing , said Gabriel , simply but I will That you won't ! She snatched back her hand . 
Gabriel felt himself guilty of another want of tact . 
Now find out my name , she said , teasingly and withdrew . 
This well favoured and comely girl soon made appreciable inroads upon the emotional constitution of young Farmer Oak . 
, every morning Oak's feelings were as sensitive as the money market in calculations upon his chances . 
However , he continued to watch through the hedge for her regular coming , and thus his sentiments towards her were deepened without any corresponding effect being produced upon herself . 
By making inquiries he found that the girl's name was Bathsheba Everdene , and that the cow would go dry in about seven days . 
He dreaded the eighth day . 
At last the eighth day came . 
The cow had ceased to give milk for that year , and Bathsheba Everdene came up the hill no more . 
Gabriel had reached a pitch of existence he never could have anticipated a short time before . 
Love is a possible strength in an actual weakness . 
Marriage transforms a distraction into a support , the power of which should be , and happily often is , in direct proportion to the degree of imbecility it supplants . 
He found his opportunity in the death of a ewe , mother of a living lamb . 
Gabriel had watched the blue wood smoke curling from the chimney with strange meditation . 
He had made a toilet of a nicely adjusted kind of a nature between the carefully neat and the carelessly ornate of a degree between fine market day and wet Sunday selection . 
Almost before he had ceased speaking , Oak was seized with a misgiving as to whose ear was the recipient of his answer . 
Nobody appeared , and he heard the person retreat among the bushes . 
Gabriel meditated , and so deeply that he brought small furrows into his forehead by sheer force of reverie . 
Where the issue of an interview is as likely to be a vast change for the worse as for the better , any initial difference from expectation causes nipping sensations of failure . 
Oak went up to the door a little abashed his mental rehearsal and the reality had had no common grounds of opening . 
Will you tell Miss Everdene that somebody would be glad to speak to her ? said Mr. Oak . 
The voice had evidently been hers . 
Will you come in , Mr. Oak ? Oh , thank 'ee , said Gabriel , following her to the fireplace . 
I've brought a lamb for Miss Everdene . 
I thought she might like one to rear girls do . 
She might , said Mrs. Hurst , musingly though she's only a visitor here . 
If you will wait a minute , Bathsheba will be in . 
Yes , I will wait , said Gabriel , sitting down . 
The lamb isn't really the business I came about , Mrs. Hurst . 
In short , I was going to ask her if she'd like to be married . 
And were you indeed ? Yes . 
Because if she would , I should be very glad to marry her . 
D'ye know if she's got any other young man hanging about her at all ? Let me think , said Mrs. Hurst , poking the fire superfluously . 
Yes bless you , ever so many young men . 
You see , Farmer Oak , she's so good looking , and an excellent scholar besides she was going to be a governess once , you know , only she was too wild . 
I'm only an every day sort of man , and my only chance was in being the first comer . 
Well , there's no use in my waiting , for that was all I came about so I'll take myself off home along , Mrs. Hurst . 
He looked round , and saw a girl racing after him , waving a white handkerchief . 
Oak stood still and the runner drew nearer . 
Gabriel's colour deepened hers was already deep , not , as it appeared , from emotion , but from running . 
Farmer Oak I she said , pausing for want of breath pulling up in front of him with a slanted face and putting her hand to her side . 
I have just called to see you , said Gabriel , pending her further speech . 
Yes I know that , she said panting like a robin , her face red and moist from her exertions , like a peony petal before the sun dries off the dew . 
I didn't know you had come to ask to have me , or I should have come in from the garden instantly . 
I ran after you to say that my aunt made a mistake in sending you away from courting me Gabriel expanded . 
I'm sorry to have made you run so fast , my dear , he said , with a grateful sense of favours to come . 
Wait a bit till you've found your breath . 
It was quite a mistake aunt's telling you I had a young man already , Bathsheba went on . 
Really and truly I am glad to hear that ! said Farmer Oak , smiling one of his long special smiles , and blushing with gladness . 
Directly he seized it she put it behind her , so that it slipped through his fingers like an eel . 
I have a nice snug little farm , said Gabriel , with half a degree less assurance than when he had seized her hand . 
Gabriel uttered a little in a tone to show her that it was the complacent form of a great deal . 
He continued When we be married , I am quite sure I can work twice as hard as I do now . 
He went forward and stretched out his arm again . 
Bathsheba had overtaken him at a point beside which stood a low stunted holly bush , now laden with red berries . 
Seeing his advance take the form of an attitude threatening a possible enclosure , if not compression , of her person , she edged off round the bush . 
Why , Farmer Oak , she said , over the top , looking at him with rounded eyes , I never said I was going to marry you . 
Well that IS a tale ! said Oak , with dismay . 
Oh , no no harm at all . 
Indeed , I hadn't time to think before starting whether I wanted to marry or not , for you'd have been gone over the hill . 
Come , said Gabriel , freshening again think a minute or two . 
I'll wait a while , Miss Everdene . 
Will you marry me ? Do , Bathsheba . 
I love you far more than common ! I'll try to think , she observed , rather more timorously if I can think out of doors my mind spreads away so . 
But you can give a guess . 
Bathsheba looked thoughtfully into the distance , away from the direction in which Gabriel stood . 
I can make you happy , said he to the back of her head , across the bush . 
You shall have a piano in a year or two farmers' wives are getting to have pianos now and I'll practise up the flute right well to play with you in the evenings . 
Yes I should like that . 
I should like it very much . 
And a frame for cucumbers like a gentleman and lady . 
And when the wedding was over , we'd have it put in the newspaper list of marriages . 
Wait , wait , and don't be improper ! Her countenance fell , and she was silent awhile . 
He regarded the red berries between them over and over again , to such an extent , that holly seemed in his after life to be a cypher signifying a proposal of marriage . 
Bathsheba decisively turned to him . 
No 'tis no use , she said . 
I don't want to marry you . 
I have tried hard all the time I've been thinking for a marriage would be very nice in one sense . 
Of course he would I , that is . 
Well , what I mean is that I shouldn't mind being a bride at a wedding , if I could be one without having a husband . 
But since a woman can't show off in that way by herself , I shan't marry at least yet . 
That's a terrible wooden story . 
At this criticism of her statement Bathsheba made an addition to her dignity by a slight sweep away from him . 
Upon my heart and soul , I don't know what a maid can say stupider than that , said Oak . 
Why won't you have me ? he appealed , creeping round the holly to reach her side . 
I cannot , she said , retreating . 
But why ? he persisted , standing still at last in despair of ever reaching her , and facing over the bush . 
Because I don't love you . 
Yes , but She contracted a yawn to an inoffensive smallness , so that it was hardly ill mannered at all . 
I don't love you , she said . 
But I love you and , as for myself , I am content to be liked . 
Oh Mr. Oak that's very fine ! You'd get to despise me . 
Never , said Mr Oak , so earnestly that he seemed to be coming , by the force of his words , straight through the bush and into her arms . 
I shall do one thing in this life one thing certain that is , love you , and long for you , and KEEP WANTING YOU till I die . 
His voice had a genuine pathos now , and his large brown hands perceptibly trembled . 
How I wish I hadn't run after you ! However she seemed to have a short cut for getting back to cheerfulness , and set her face to signify archness . 
It wouldn't do , Mr Oak . 
I want somebody to tame me I am too independent and you would never be able to , I know . 
Oak cast his eyes down the field in a way implying that it was useless to attempt argument . 
I am better educated than you and I don't love you a bit that's my side of the case . 
, to marry a woman with money , who would stock a larger farm for you than you have now . 
Gabriel looked at her with a little surprise and much admiration . 
That's the very thing I had been thinking myself ! he naively said . 
Farmer Oak had one and a half Christian characteristics too many to succeed with Bathsheba his humility , and a superfluous moiety of honesty . 
Well , then , why did you come and disturb me ? she said , almost angrily , if not quite , an enlarging red spot rising in each cheek . 
I can't do what I think would be would be Right ? No wise . 
You have made an admission NOW , Mr. Oak , she exclaimed , with even more hauteur , and rocking her head disdainfully . 
After that , do you think I could marry you ? Not if I know it . 
That about your not being good enough for me is nonsense . 
You speak like a lady all the parish notice it , and your uncle at Weatherbury is , I have heerd , a large farmer much larger than ever I shall be . 
May I call in the evening , or will you walk along with me o' Sundays ? I don't want you to make up your mind at once , if you'd rather not . 
Don't press me any more don't . 
I don't love you so 'twould be ridiculous , she said , with a laugh . 
No man likes to see his emotions the sport of a merry go round of skittishness . 
Very well , said Oak , firmly , with the bearing of one who was going to give his days and nights to Ecclesiastes for ever . 
Then I'll ask you no more . 
It may have been observed that there is no regulal path for getting out of love as there is for getting in . 
Some people look upon marriage as a short cut that way , but it has been known to fail . 
His incipient friendship with her aunt had been nipped by the failure of his suit , and all that Oak learnt of Bathsheba's movements was done indirectly . 
In substance it had originally been hair , but long contact with sheep seemed to be turning it by degrees into wool of a poor quality and staple . 
Though old , he was clever and trustworthy still . 
The young dog , George's son , might possibly have been the image of his mother , for there was not much resemblance between him and George . 
Thus much for the dogs . 
On the further side of Norcombe Hill was a chalk pit , from which chalk had been drawn for generations , and spread over adjacent farms . 
Two hedges converged upon it in the form of a V , but without quite meeting . 
The narrow opening left , which was immediately over the brow of the pit , was protected by a rough railing . 
Only one responded old George the other could not be found , either in the house , lane , or garden . 
, and concluding that the young one had not finished his meal , he went indoors to the luxury of a bed , which latterly he had only enjoyed on Sundays . 
It was a still , moist night . 
Just before dawn he was assisted in waking by the abnormal reverberation of familiar music . 
In the solemn calm of the awakening morn that note was heard by Gabriel , beating with unusual violence and rapidity . 
The experienced ear of Oak knew the sound he now heard to be caused by the running of the flock with great velocity . 
He jumped out of bed , dressed , tore down the lane through a foggy dawn , and ascended the hill . 
The forward ewes were kept apart from those among which the fall of lambs would be later , there being two hundred of the latter class in Gabriel's flock . 
These two hundred seemed to have absolutely vanished from the hill . 
There were the fifty with their lambs , enclosed at the other end as he had left them , but the rest , forming the bulk of the flock , were nowhere . 
Gabriel called at the top of his voice the shepherd's call . 
Ovey , ovey , ovey ! Not a single bleat . 
He went to the hedge a gap had been broken through it , and in the gap were the footprints of the sheep . 
They were not in the plantation . 
He called again the valleys and farthest hills resounded as when the sailors invoked the lost Hylas on the Mysian shore but no sheep . 
He passed through the trees and along the ridge of the hill . 
A horrible conviction darted through Oak . 
With a sensation of bodily faintness he advanced at one point the rails were broken through , and there he saw the footprints of his ewes . 
The dog came up , licked his hand , and made signs implying that he expected some great reward for signal services rendered . 
Oak looked over the precipice . 
The ewes lay dead and dying at its foot a heap of two hundred mangled carcasses , representing in their condition just now at least two hundred more . 
Oak was an intensely humane man indeed , his humanity often tore in pieces any politic intentions of his which bordered on strategy , and carried him on as by gravitation . 
A shadow in his life had always been that his flock ended in mutton that a day came and found every shepherd an arrant traitor to his defenseless sheep . 
His first feeling now was one of pity for the untimely fate of these gentle ewes and their unborn lambs . 
It was a second to remember another phase of the matter . 
The sheep were not insured . 
All the savings of a frugal life had been dispersed at a blow his hopes of being an independent farmer were laid low possibly for ever . 
He leant down upon a rail , and covered his face with his hands . 
Stupors , however , do not last for ever , and Farmer Oak recovered from his . 
All this Oak saw and remembered . 
CHAPTER VI THE FAIR THE JOURNEY THE FIRE TWO months passed away . 
We are brought on to a day in February , on which was held the yearly statute or hiring fair in the county town of Casterbridge . 
His answer always was , I am looking for a place myself a bailiff's . 
Do ye know of anybody who wants one ? Gabriel was paler now . 
His eyes were more meditative , and his expression was more sad . 
He had passed through an ordeal of wretchedness which had given him more than it had taken away . 
And thus the abasement had been exaltation , and the loss gain . 
In the morning a regiment of cavalry had left the town , and a sergeant and his party had been beating up for recruits through the four streets . 
As the end of the day drew on , and he found himself not hired , Gabriel almost wished that he had joined them , and gone off to serve his country . 
All the farmers seemed to be wanting shepherds . 
Sheep tending was Gabriel's speciality . 
Turning down an obscure street and entering an obscurer lane , he went up to a smith's shop . 
How long would it take you to make a shepherd's crook ? Twenty minutes . 
How much ? Two shillings . 
He sat on a bench and the crook was made , a stem being given him into the bargain . 
He then went to a ready made clothes' shop , the owner of which had a large rural connection . 
As the crook had absorbed most of Gabriel's money , he attempted , and carried out , an exchange of his overcoat for a shepherd's regulation smock frock . 
This transaction having been completed , he again hurried off to the centre of the town , and stood on the kerb of the pavement , as a shepherd , crook in hand . 
Now that Oak had turned himself into a shepherd , it seemed that bailifs were most in demand . 
However , two or three farmers noticed him and drew near . 
Dialogues followed , more or less in the subjoined form Where do you come from ? Norcombe . 
Who's farm were you upon last ? My own . 
This reply invariably operated like a rumour of cholera . 
The inquiring farmer would edge away and shake his head dubiously . 
Gabriel , like his dog , was too good to be trustworthy , and he never made advance beyond this point . 
Some merry men were whistling and singing by the corn exchange . 
Gabriel's hand , which had lain for some time idle in his smock frock pocket , touched his flute which he carried there . 
Here was an opportunity for putting his dearly bought wisdom into practice . 
He drew out his flute and began to play Jockey to the Fair in the style of a man who had never known moment's sorrow . 
Oak could pipe with Arcadian sweetness and the sound of the well known notes cheered his own heart as well as those of the loungers . 
He played on with spirit , and in half an hour had earned in pence what was a small fortune to a destitute man . 
By making inquiries he learnt that there was another fair at Shottsford the next day . 
How far is Shottsford ? Ten miles t'other side of Weatherbury . 
Weatherbury ! It was where Bathsheba had gone two months before . 
This information was like coming from night into noon . 
How far is it to Weatherbury ? Five or six miles . 
Moreover , the Weatherbury folk were by no means uninteresting intrinsically . 
If report spoke truly they were as hardy , merry , thriving , wicked a set as any in the whole county . 
By the time he had walked three or four miles every shape in the landscape had assumed a uniform hue of blackness . 
He descended Yalbury Hill and could just discern ahead of him a waggon , drawn up under a great over hanging tree by the roadside . 
On coming close , he found there were no horses attached to it , the spot being apparently quite deserted . 
Gabriel sat down on the shafts of the vehicle and considered his position . 
Eating his last slices of bread and ham , and drinking from the bottle of cider he had taken the precaution to bring with him , he got into the lonely waggon . 
Inward melancholy it was impossible for a man like Oak , introspective far beyond his neighbours , to banish quite , whilst conning the present untoward page of his history . 
On somewhat suddenly awaking , after a sleep of whose length he had no idea , Oak found that the waggon was in motion . 
He then distinguished voices in conversation , coming from the forpart of the waggon . 
led him to peer cautiously from the hay , and the first sight he beheld was the stars above him . 
Charles's Wain was getting towards a right angle with the Pole star , and Gabriel concluded that it must be about nine o'clock in other words , that he had slept two hours . 
This small astronomical calculation was made without any positive effort , and whilst he was stealthily turning to discover , if possible , into whose hands he had fallen . 
Two figures were dimly visible in front , sitting with their legs outside the waggon , one of whom was driving . 
Gabriel soon found that this was the waggoner , and it appeared they had come from Casterbridge fair , like himself . 
A conversation was in progress , which continued thus Be as 'twill , she's a fine handsome body as far's looks be concerned . 
But that's only the skin of the woman , and these dandy cattle be as proud as a lucifer in their insides . 
Ay so 'a do seem , Billy Smallbury so 'a do seem . 
This utterance was very shaky by nature , and more so by circumstance , the jolting of the waggon not being without its effect upon the speaker's larynx . 
It came from the man who held the reins . 
She's a very vain feymell so 'tis said here and there . 
If so be 'tis like that , I can't look her in the face . 
Lord , no not I heh heh heh ! Such a shy man as I be ! Yes she's very vain . 
'Tis said that every night at going to bed she looks in the glass to put on her night cap properly . 
And not a married woman . 
Oh , the world ! And 'a can play the peanner , so 'tis said . 
Can play so clever that 'a can make a psalm tune sound as well as the merriest loose song a man can wish for . 
D'ye tell o't ! A happy time for us , and I feel quite a new man ! And how do she play ? That I don't know , Master Poorgrass . 
On hearing these and other similar remarks , a wild thought flashed into Gabriel's mind that they might be speaking of Bathsheba . 
They were now apparently close upon Weatherbury and not to alarm the speakers unnecessarily , Gabriel slipped out of the waggon unseen . 
The crunching jangle of the waggon died upon his ear . 
He was about to walk on , when he noticed on his left hand an unusual light appearing about half a mile distant . 
Oak watched it , and the glow increased . 
A rick yard was the source of the fire . 
He came up to the boundary fence , and stood to regain breath . 
It seemed as if the spot was unoccupied by a living soul . 
The fire was issuing from a long straw stack , which was so far gone as to preclude a possibility of saving it . 
A rick burns differently from a house . 
As the wind blows the fire inwards , the portion in flames completely disappears like melting sugar , and the outline is lost to the eye . 
However , a hay or a wheat rick , well put together , will resist combustion for a length of time , if it begins on the outside . 
This before Gabriel's eyes was a rick of straw , loosely put together , and the flames darted into it with lightning swiftness . 
It glowed on the windward side , rising and falling in intensity , like the coal of a cigar . 
Then a superincumbent bundle rolled down , with a whisking noise flames elongated , and bent themselves about with a quiet roar , but no crackle . 
Banks of smoke went off horizontally at the back like passing clouds , and behind these burned hidden pyres , illuminating the semi transparent sheet of smoke to a lustrous yellow uniformity . 
Oak suddenly ceased from being a mere spectator by discovering the case to be more serious than he had at first imagined . 
Gabriel leapt over the hedge , and saw that he was not alone . 
O , man fire , fire ! A good master and a bad servant is fire , fire ! I mane a bad servant and a good master . 
Stop the draught under the wheat rick ! cried Gabriel to those nearest to him . 
The corn stood on stone staddles , and between these , tongues of yellow hue from the burning straw licked and darted playfully . 
If the fire once got UNDER this stack , all would be lost . 
Get a tarpaulin quick ! said Gabriel . 
A rick cloth was brought , and they hung it like a curtain across the channel . 
The flames immediately ceased to go under the bottom of the corn stack , and stood up vertical . 
Stand here with a bucket of water and keep the cloth wet . 
The flames , now driven upwards , began to attack the angles of the huge roof covering the wheat stack . 
A ladder , cried Gabriel . 
The ladder was against the straw rick and is burnt to a cinder , said a spectre like form in the smoke . 
Billy Smallbury one of the men who had been on the waggon by this time had found a ladder , which Mark Clark ascended , holding on beside Oak upon the thatch . 
On the ground the groups of villagers were still occupied in doing all they could to keep down the conflagration , which was not much . 
They were all tinged orange , and backed up by shadows of varying pattern . 
Round the corner of the largest stack , out of the direct rays of the fire , stood a pony , bearing a young woman on its back . 
By her side was another woman , on foot . 
These two seemed to keep at a distance from the fire , that the horse might not become restive . 
He's a shepherd , said the woman on foot . 
See how his crook shines as he beats the rick with it . 
And his smock frock is burnt in two holes , I declare ! A fine young shepherd he is too , ma'am . 
Whose shepherd is he ? said the equestrian in a clear voice . 
Don't any of the others know ? Nobody at all I've asked 'em . 
Quite a stranger , they say . 
The young woman on the pony rode out from the shade and looked anxiously around . 
Do you think the barn is safe ? she said . 
D'ye think the barn is safe , Jan Coggan ? said the second woman , passing on the question to the nearest man in that direction . 
Safe now leastwise I think so . 
If this rick had gone the barn would have followed . 
'Tis that bold shepherd up there that have done the most good he sitting on the top o' rick , whizzing his great long arms about like a windmill . 
He does work hard , said the young woman on horseback , looking up at Gabriel through her thick woollen veil . 
I wish he was shepherd here . 
Don't any of you know his name . 
Never heard the man's name in my life , or seed his form afore . 
The fire began to get worsted , and Gabriel's elevated position being no longer required of him , he made as if to descend . 
Maryann , said the girl on horseback , go to him as he comes down , and say that the farmer wishes to thank him for the great service he has done . 
Maryann stalked off towards the rick and met Oak at the foot of the ladder . 
Where is your master the farmer ? asked Gabriel , kindling with the idea of getting employment that seemed to strike him now . 
'Tisn't a master 'tis a mistress , shepherd . 
A woman farmer ? Ay , 'a b'lieve , and a rich one too ! said a bystander . 
Lately 'a came here from a distance . 
Took on her uncle's farm , who died suddenly . 
Used to measure his money in half pint cups . 
That's she , back there upon the pony , said Maryann . 
wi' her face a covered up in that black cloth with holes in it . 
Gabriel and his cold hearted darling , Bathsheba Everdene , were face to face . 
She scarcely knew whether most to be amused at the singularity of the meeting , or to be concerned at its awkwardness . 
There was room for a little pity , also for a very little exultation the former at his position , the latter at her own . 
Embarrassed she was not , and she remembered Gabriel's declaration of love to her at Norcombe only to think she had nearly forgotten it . 
Yes , she murmured , putting on an air of dignity , and turning again to him with a little warmth of cheek I do want a shepherd . 
But He's the very man , ma'am , said one of the villagers , quietly . 
Ay , that 'a is , said a second , decisively . 
The man , truly ! said a third , with heartiness . 
He's all there ! said number four , fervidly . 
Then will you tell him to speak to the bailiff , said Bathsheba . 
All was practical again now . 
A summer eve and loneliness would have been necessary to give the meeting its proper fulness of romance . 
The fire before them wasted away . 
Men , said Bathsheba , you shall take a little refreshment after this extra work . 
Bathsheba then rode off into the darkness , and the men straggled on to the village in twos and threes Oak and the bailiff being left by the rick alone . 
And now , said the bailiff , finally , all is settled , I think , about your coming , and I am going home along . 
Good night to ye , shepherd . 
Can you get me a lodging ? inquired Gabriel . 
That I can't , indeed , he said , moving past Oak as a Christian edges past an offertory plate when he does not mean to contribute . 
Good night to ye , shepherd . 
But some women only require an emergency to make them fit for one . 
Obliged , to some extent , to forgo dreaming in order to find the way , he reached the churchyard , and passed round it under the wall where several ancient trees grew . 
There was a wide margin of grass along here , and Gabriel's footsteps were deadened by its softness , even at this indurating period of the year . 
When abreast of a trunk which appeared to be the oldest of the old , he became aware that a figure was standing behind it . 
Gabriel did not pause in his walk , and in another moment he accidentally kicked a loose stone . 
The noise was enough to disturb the motionless stranger , who started and assumed a careless position . 
It was a slim girl , rather thinly clad . 
Good night to you , said Gabriel , heartily . 
Good night , said the girl to Gabriel . 
The voice was unexpectedly attractive it was the low and dulcet note suggestive of romance common in descriptions , rare in experience . 
I'll thank you to tell me if I'm in the way for Warren's Malthouse ? Gabriel resumed , primarily to gain the information , indirectly to get more of the music . 
It's at the bottom of the hill . 
And do you know The girl hesitated and then went on again . 
Do you know how late they keep open the Buck's Head Inn ? She seemed to be won by Gabriel's heartiness , as Gabriel had been won by her modulations . 
I don't know where the Buck's Head is , or anything about it . 
Do you think of going there to night ? Yes The woman again paused . 
You are not a Weatherbury man ? she said , timorously . 
I am the new shepherd just arrived . 
Only a shepherd and you seem almost a farmer by your ways . 
Only a shepherd , Gabriel repeated , in a dull cadence of finality . 
His thoughts were directed to the past , his eyes to the feet of the girl and for the first time he saw lying there a bundle of some sort . 
Thank you , indeed , the other replied . 
I am rather poor , and I don't want people to know anything about me . 
Then she was silent and shivered . 
You ought to have a cloak on such a cold night , Gabriel observed . 
I would advise 'ee to get indoors . 
O no ! Would you mind going on and leaving me ? I thank you much for what you have told me . 
I will go on , he said adding hesitatingly , Since you are not very well off , perhaps you would accept this trifle from me . 
It is only a shilling , but it is all I have to spare . 
Yes , I will take it , said the stranger gratefully . 
She extended her hand Gabriel his . 
In feeling for each other's palm in the gloom before the money could be passed , a minute incident occurred which told much . 
Gabriel's fingers alighted on the young woman's wrist . 
It was beating with a throb of tragic intensity . 
He had frequently felt the same quick , hard beat in the femoral artery of his lambs when overdriven . 
It suggested a consumption too great of a vitality which , to judge from her figure and stature , was already too little . 
What is the matter ? Nothing . 
But there is ? No , no , no ! Let your having seen me be a secret ! Very well I will . 
The young girl remained motionless by the tree , and Gabriel descended into the village of Weatherbury , or Lower Longpuddle as it was sometimes called . 
He fancied that he had felt himself in the penumbra of a very deep sadness when touching that slight and fragile creature . 
But wisdom lies in moderating mere impressions , and Gabriel endeavoured to think little of this . 
Voices were to be heard inside . 
Oak's hand skimmed the surface of the door with fingers extended to an Elymas the Sorcerer pattern , till he found a leathern strap , which he pulled . 
This lifted a wooden latch , and the door swung open . 
The stone flag floor was worn into a path from the doorway to the kiln , and into undulations everywhere . 
A curved settle of unplaned oak stretched along one side , and in a remote corner was a small bed and bedstead , the owner and frequent occupier of which was the maltster . 
This aged man was now sitting opposite the fire , his frosty white hair and beard overgrowing his gnarled figure like the grey moss and lichen upon a leafless apple tree . 
He wore breeches and the laced up shoes called ankle jacks he kept his eyes fixed upon the fire . 
Gabriel's nose was greeted by an atmosphere laden with the sweet smell of new malt . 
Several exclaimed meditatively , after this operation had been completed Oh , 'tis the new shepherd , 'a b'lieve . 
We thought we heard a hand pawing about the door for the bobbin , but weren't sure 'twere not a dead leaf blowed across , said another . 
Come in , shepherd sure ye be welcome , though we don't know yer name . 
Gabriel Oak , that's my name , neighbours . 
The ancient maltster sitting in the midst turned up this his turning being as the turning of a rusty crane . 
That's never Gable Oak's grandson over at Norcombe never ! he said , as a formula expressive of surprise , which nobody was supposed for a moment to take literally . 
My father and my grandfather were old men of the name of Gabriel , said the shepherd , placidly . 
Knowed yer grandfather for years and years ! continued the maltster , the words coming forth of their own accord as if the momentum previously imparted had been sufficient . 
Ah and did you ! Knowed yer grandmother . 
And her too ! Likewise knowed yer father when he was a child . 
But 'twas Joe had most to do with him . 
I can mind Andrew , said Oak , as being a man in the place when I was quite a child . 
Ay the other day I and my youngest daughter , Liddy , were over at my grandson's christening , continued Billy . 
Come , shepherd , and drink . 
Take up the God forgive me , Jacob . 
See if 'tis warm , Jacob . 
A clane cup for the shepherd , said the maltster commandingly . 
No not at all , said Gabriel , in a reproving tone of considerateness . 
I never fuss about dirt in its pure state , and when I know what sort it is . 
Taking the mug he drank an inch or more from the depth of its contents , and duly passed it to the next man . 
I wouldn't think of giving such trouble to neighbours in washing up when there's so much work to be done in the world already . 
continued Oak in a moister tone , after recovering from the stoppage of breath which is occasioned by pulls at large mugs . 
A right sensible man , said Jacob . 
And here's a mouthful of bread and bacon that mis'ess have sent , shepherd . 
The cider will go down better with a bit of victuals . 
Don't ye chaw quite close , shepherd , for I let the bacon fall in the road outside as I was bringing it along , and may be 'tis rather gritty . 
There , 'tis clane dirt and we all know what that is , as you say , and you bain't a particular man we see , shepherd . 
True , true not at all , said the friendly Oak . 
Don't let your teeth quite meet , and you won't feel the sandiness at all . 
Ah ! 'tis wonderful what can be done by contrivance ! My own mind exactly , neighbour . 
Ah , he's his grandfer's own grandsonn ! his grandfer were just such a nice unparticular man ! said the maltster . 
Having at this moment reached the end of a wistful gaze into mid air , Henry did not refuse . 
Come , Mark Clark come . 
Ther's plenty more in the barrel , said Jan . 
Ay that I will , 'tis my only doctor , replied Mr. Clark , who , twenty years younger than Jan Coggan , revolved in the same orbit . 
He secreted mirth on all occasions for special discharge at popular parties . 
Why , Joseph Poorgrass , ye han't had a drop ! said Mr. Coggan to a self conscious man in the background , thrusting the cup towards him . 
Such a modest man as he is ! said Jacob Smallbury . 
Why , ye've hardly had strength of eye enough to look in our young mis'ess's face , so I hear , Joseph ? All looked at Joseph Poorgrass with pitying reproach . 
No I've hardly looked at her at all , simpered Joseph , reducing his body smaller whilst talking , apparently from a meek sense of undue prominence . 
And when I seed her , 'twas nothing but blushes with me ! Poor feller , said Mr. Clark . 
'Tis a curious nature for a man , said Jan Coggan . 
Yes , continued Joseph Poorgrass his shyness , which was so painful as a defect , filling him with a mild complacency now that it was regarded as an interesting study . 
'Twere blush , blush , blush with me every minute of the time , when she was speaking to me . 
I believe ye , Joseph Poorgrass , for we all know ye to be a very bashful man . 
'Tis a' awkward gift for a man , poor soul , said the maltster . 
And ye have suffered from it a long time , we know . 
Oh , ever since I was a boy . 
Yes mother was concerned to her heart about it yes . 
Did ye ever go into the world to try and stop it , Joseph Poorgrass ? Oh ay , tried all sorts o' company . 
And then I was put errand man at the Women's Skittle Alley at the back of the Tailor's Arms in Casterbridge . 
'Twas a horrible sinful situation , and a very curious place for a good man . 
I had to stand and look ba'dy people in the face from morning till night but 'twas no use I was just as bad as ever after all . 
Blushes hev been in the family for generations . 
There , 'tis a happy providence that I be no worse . 
True , said Jacob Smallbury , deepening his thoughts to a profounder view of the subject . 
'Tis a thought to look at , that ye might have been worse but even as you be , 'tis a very bad affliction for 'ee , Joseph . 
Yes , very awkward for the man . 
Ay , and he's very timid , too , observed Jan Coggan . 
I'll tike my oath I didn't say 'Joseph Poorgrass o' Weatherbury , sir . 
'Joseph Poorgrass of Weatherbury , that's every word I said , and I shouldn't ha' said that if 't hadn't been for Keeper Day's metheglin . 
There , 'twas a merciful thing it ended where it did . 
Yes that were the middle of the night , too . 
The gate would not open , try how he would , and knowing there was the Devil's hand in it , he kneeled down . 
Ay , said Joseph , acquiring confidence from the warmth of the fire , the cider , and a perception of the narrative capabilities of the experience alluded to . 
Well , when I got to Saying After Me , I rose from my knees and found the gate would open yes , neighbours , the gate opened the same as ever . 
We d' know little of her nothing . 
She only showed herself a few days ago . 
Her uncle was took bad , and the doctor was called with his world wide skill but he couldn't save the man . 
As I take it , she's going to keep on the farm . 
That's about the shape o't , 'a b'lieve , said Jan Coggan . 
Ay , 'tis a very good family . 
I'd as soon be under 'em as under one here and there . 
Her uncle was a very fair sort of man . 
Did ye know en , shepherd a bachelor man ? Not at all . 
I used to go to his house a courting my first wife , Charlotte , who was his dairymaid . 
Ay , ay , Jan Coggan we know yer maning . 
I can I can , said Jacob . 
That one , too , that we had at Buck's Head on a White Monday was a pretty tipple . 
True , said the maltster . 
Nater requires her swearing at the regular times , or she's not herself and unholy exclamations is a necessity of life . 
But Charlotte , continued Coggan not a word of the sort would Charlotte allow , nor the smallest item of taking in vain . 
And did any of you know Miss Everdene's father and mother ? inquired the shepherd , who found some difficulty in keeping the conversation in the desired channel . 
I knew them a little , said Jacob Smallbury but they were townsfolk , and didn't live here . 
They've been dead for years . 
Father , what sort of people were mis'ess' father and mother ? Well , said the maltster , he wasn't much to look at but she was a lovely woman . 
He was fond enough of her as his sweetheart . 
Used to kiss her scores and long hundreds o' times , so 'twas said , observed Coggan . 
He was very proud of her , too , when they were married , as I've been told , said the maltster . 
He admired her so much that he used to light the candle three time a night to look at her . 
Boundless love I shouldn't have supposed it in the universe ! murmered Joseph Poorgrass , who habitually spoke on a large scale in his moral reflections . 
Well , to be sure , said Gabriel . 
Oh , 'tis true enough . 
I knowed the man and woman both well . 
Levi Everdene that was the man's name , sure . 
Man , saith I in my hurry , but he were of a higher circle of life than that 'a was a gentleman tailor really , worth scores of pounds . 
And he became a very celebrated bankrupt two or three times . 
Oh , I thought he was quite a common man ! said Joseph . 
Oh no , no ! That man failed for heaps of money hundreds in gold and silver . 
Understand ? 'a didn't want to be fickle , but he couldn't help it . 
The pore feller were faithful and true enough to her in his wish , but his heart would rove , do what he would . 
He spoke to me in real tribulation about it once . 
Well , 'twas a most ungodly remedy , murmured Joseph Poorgrass but we ought to feel deep cheerfulness that a happy Providence kept it from being any worse . 
You see , he might have gone the bad road and given his eyes to unlawfulness entirely yes , gross unlawfulness , so to say it . 
You see , said Billy Smallbury , The man's will was to do right , sure enough , but his heart didn't chime in . 
He got so much better , that he was quite godly in his later years , wasn't he , Jan ? said Joseph Poorgrass . 
Ay , at that time he thought of nothing but high things , added Billy Smallbury . 
Yes , he was a very Christian man . 
Their daughter was not at all a pretty chiel at that time , said Henery Fray . 
Never should have thought she'd have growed up such a handsome body as she is . 
'Tis to be hoped her temper is as good as her face . 
Well , yes but the baily will have most to do with the business and ourselves . 
Ah ! Henery gazed into the ashpit , and smiled volumes of ironical knowledge . 
A queer Christian , like the Devil's head in a cowl , as the saying is , volunteered Mark Clark . 
This phrase is a conjectural emendation of the unintelligible expression , as the Devil said to the Owl , used by the natives . 
He is , said Henery , implying that irony must cease at a certain point . 
Between we two , man and man , I believe that man would as soon tell a lie Sundays as working days that I do so . 
Good faith , you do talk ! said Gabriel . 
'Ah , there's people of one sort , and people of another , but that man bless your souls ! Gabriel thought fit to change the subject . 
You must be a very aged man , malter , to have sons growed mild and ancient he remarked . 
Father's so old that 'a can't mind his age , can ye , father ? interposed Jacob . 
And he's growed terrible crooked too , lately , Jacob continued , surveying his father's figure , which was rather more bowed than his own . 
Really one may say that father there is three double . 
Crooked folk will last a long while , said the maltster , grimly , and not in the best humour . 
where I took to malting . 
I went therefrom to Norcombe , and malted there two and twenty years , and two and twenty years I was there turnip hoeing and harvesting . 
Then I malted at Durnover four year , and four year turnip hoeing and I was fourteen times eleven months at Millpond St . 
Old Twills wouldn't hire me for more than eleven months at a time , to keep me from being chargeable to the parish if so be I was disabled . 
Then I was three year at Mellstock , and I've been here one and thirty year come Candlemas . 
How much is that ? Hundred and seventeen , chuckled another old gentleman , given to mental arithmetic and little conversation , who had hitherto sat unobserved in a corner . 
Well , then , that's my age , said the maltster , emphatically . 
O no , father ! said Jacob . 
Your turnip hoeing were in the summer and your malting in the winter of the same years , and ye don't ought to count both halves father . 
Chok' it all ! I lived through the summers , didn't I ? That's my question . 
I suppose ye'll say next I be no age at all to speak of ? Sure we shan't , said Gabriel , soothingly . 
Ye be a very old aged person , malter , attested Jan Coggan , also soothingly . 
I've been in great trouble , neighbours , and was driven to it . 
I used not to be so poor as I be now . 
Never mind , heart ! said Mark Clark . 
You should take it careless like , shepherd , and your time will come . 
But we could thank ye for a tune , if ye bain't too tired ? Neither drum nor trumpet have I heard since Christmas , said Jan Coggan . 
Come , raise a tune , Master Oak ! Ay , that I will , said Gabriel , pulling out his flute and putting it together . 
A poor tool , neighbours but such as I can do ye shall have and welcome . 
He can blow the flute very well that 'a can , said a young married man , who having no individuality worth mentioning was known as Susan Tall's husband . 
He continued , I'd as lief as not be able to blow into a flute as well as that . 
He's a clever man , and 'tis a true comfort for us to have such a shepherd , murmured Joseph Poorgrass , in a soft cadence . 
Yes , for our wives' and daughters' sakes we should feel real thanks giving . 
Ay , I can mind yer face now , shepherd , said Henery Fray , criticising Gabriel with misty eyes as he entered upon his second tune . 
I hope you don't mind that young man's bad manners in naming your features ? whispered Joseph to Gabriel . 
Not at all , said Mr. Oak . 
For by nature ye be a very handsome man , shepherd , continued Joseph Poorgrass , with winning sauvity . 
Ay , that ye be , shepard , said the company . 
Danged if ye bain't altered now , malter , said a voice with the vigour natural to the enunciation of a remarkably evident truism . 
It came from the old man in the background , whose offensiveness and spiteful ways were barely atoned for by the occasional chuckle he contributed to general laughs . 
O no , no , said Gabriel . 
Don't ye play no more shepherd said Susan Tall's husband , the young married man who had spoken once before . 
I must be moving and when there's tunes going on I seem as if hung in wires . 
If I thought after I'd left that music was still playing , and I not there , I should be quite melancholy like . 
What's yer hurry then , Laban ? inquired Coggan . 
You used to bide as late as the latest . 
Well , ye see , neighbours , I was lately married to a woman , and she's my vocation now , and so ye see The young man halted lamely . 
New Lords new laws , as the saying is , I suppose , remarked Coggan . 
Ay , 'a b'lieve ha , ha ! said Susan Tall's husband , in a tone intended to imply his habitual reception of jokes without minding them at all . 
The young man then wished them good night and withdrew . 
Henery Fray was the first to follow . 
Then Gabriel arose and went off with Jan Coggan , who had offered him a lodging . 
A few minutes later , when the remaining ones were on their legs and about to depart , Fray came back again in a hurry . 
Flourishing his finger ominously he threw a gaze teeming with tidings just where his eye alighted by accident , which happened to be in Joseph Poorgrass's face . 
O what's the matter , what's the matter , Henery ? said Joseph , starting back . 
What's a brewing , Henrey ? asked Jacob and Mark Clark . 
Baily Pennyways Baily Pennyways I said so yes , I said so ! What , found out stealing anything ? Stealing it is . 
She fleed at him like a cat never such a tomboy as she is of course I speak with closed doors ? You do you do , Henery . 
She fleed at him , and , to cut a long story short , he owned to having carried off five sack altogether , upon her promising not to persecute him . 
Before he had replaced it on the table , in came the young man , Susan Tall's husband , in a still greater hurry . 
What a night of horrors ! murmured Joseph Poorgrass , waving his hands spasmodically . 
They've been wanting to lock up the door these two hours , but she isn't come in . 
And they don't know what to do about going to hed for fear of locking her out . 
Oh 'tis burned 'tis burned ! came from Joseph Poorgrass's dry lips . 
No 'tis drowned ! said Tall . 
Or 'tis her father's razor ! suggested Billy Smallbury , with a vivid sense of detail . 
Well Miss Everdene wants to speak to one or two of us before we go to bed . 
What with this trouble about the baily , and now about the girl , mis'ess is almost wild . 
They all hastened up the lane to the farmhouse , excepting the old maltster , whom neither news , fire , rain , nor thunder could draw from his hole . 
There , as the others' footsteps died away he sat down again and continued gazing as usual into the furnace with his red , bleared eyes . 
From the bedroom window above their heads Bathsheba's head and shoulders , robed in mystic white , were dimly seen extended into the air . 
Are any of my men among you ? she said anxiously . 
Yes , ma'am , several , said Susan Tall's husband . 
To morrow morning I wish two or three of you to make inquiries in the villages round if they have seen such a person as Fanny Robin . 
Do it quietly there is no reason for alarm as yet . 
She must have left whilst we were all at the fire . 
I beg yer pardon , but had she any young man courting her in the parish , ma'am ? asked Jacob Smallbury . 
I don't know , said Bathsheba . 
I've never heard of any such thing , ma'am , said two or three . 
It is hardly likely , either , continued Bathsheba . 
For any lover of hers might have come to the house if he had been a respectable lad . 
That's true she would not , ma'am . 
She had , I think , a bundle , though I couldn't see very well , said a female voice from another window , which seemed that of Maryann . 
But she had no young man about here . 
Hers lives in Casterbridge , and I believe he's a soldier . 
Do you know his name ? Bathsheba said . 
No , mistress she was very close about it . 
Perhaps I might be able to find out if I went to Casterbridge barracks , said William Smallbury . 
Very well if she doesn't return tomorrow , mind you go there and try to discover which man it is , and see him . 
I feel more responsible than I should if she had had any friends or relations alive . 
I do hope she has come to no harm through a man of that kind . 
And then there's this disgraceful affair of the bailiff but I can't speak of him now . 
Bathsheba had so many reasons for uneasiness that it seemed she did not think it worth while to dwell upon any particular one . 
Do as I told you , then , she said in conclusion , closing the casement . 
Ay , ay , mistress we will , they replied , and moved away . 
That night at Coggan's , Gabriel Oak , beneath the screen of closed eyelids , was busy with fancies , and full of movement , like a river flowing rapidly under its ice . 
Night had always been the time at which he saw Bathsheba most vividly , and through the slow hours of shadow he tenderly regarded her image now . 
He also thought of plans for fetching his few utensils and books from Norcombe . 
Soft brown mosses , like faded velveteen , formed cushions upon the stone tiling , and tufts of the houseleek or sengreen sprouted from the eaves of the low surrounding buildings . 
Liddy , the maltster's great granddaughter , was about Bathsheba's equal in age , and her face was a prominent advertisement of the light hearted English country girl . 
Though elastic in nature she was less daring than Bathsheba , and occasionally showed some earnestness , which consisted half of genuine feeling , and half of mannerliness superadded by way of duty . 
To think of her was to get good humoured to speak of her was to raise the image of a dried Normandy pippin . 
Stop your scrubbing a moment , said Bathsheba through the door to her . 
The tramp of a horse was apparent , approaching the front of the building . 
The paces slackened , turned in at the wicket , and , what was most unusual , came up the mossy path close to the door . 
The door was tapped with the end of a crop or stick . 
What impertinence ! said Liddy , in a low voice . 
To ride up the footpath like that ! Why didn't he stop at the gate ? Lord ! 'Tis a gentleman ! I see the top of his hat . 
Be quiet ! said Bathsheba . 
The further expression of Liddy's concern was continued by aspect instead of narrative . 
Why doesn't Mrs. Coggan go to the door ? Bath sheba continued . 
Rat tat tat tat resounded more decisively from Bath sheba's oak . 
Maryann , you go ! said she , fluttering under the onset of a crowd of romantic possibilities . 
Oh ma'am see , here's a mess ! The argument was unanswerable after a glance at Maryann . 
Liddy you must , said Bathsheba . 
Liddy held up her hands and arms , coated with dust from the rubbish they were sorting , and looked imploringly at her mistress . 
There Mrs. Coggan is going ! said Bathsheba , exhaling her relief in the form of a long breath which had lain in her bosom a minute or more . 
The door opened , and a deep voice said Is Miss Everdene at home ? I'll see , sir , said Mrs. Coggan , and in a minute appeared in the room . 
Here's Mr. Boldwood wanting to see you , Miss Everdne . 
Whatever shall I do ? Not at homes were hardly naturalized in Weatherbury farmhouses , so Liddy suggested Say you're a fright with dust , and can't come down . 
Yes that sounds very well , said Mrs. Coggan , critically . 
Say I can't see him that will do . 
Oh , very well , said the deep voice indifferently . 
All I wanted to ask was , if anything had been heard of Fanny Robin ? Nothing , sir but we may know to night . 
William Smallbury is gone to Casterbridge , where her young man lives , as is supposed , and the other men be inquiring about everywhere . 
The horse's tramp then recommenced and retreated , and the door closed . 
Who is Mr. Boldwood ? said Bathsheba . 
A gentleman farmer at Little Weatherbury . 
Married ? No , miss . 
How old is he ? Forty , I should say very handsome rather stern looking and rich . 
What a bother this dusting is ! I am always in some unfortunate plight or other , Bathsheba said , complainingly . 
A little boy came up at this moment and looked in upon them . 
This child was one of the Coggans , who , with the Smallburys , were as common among the families of this district as the Avons and Derwents among our rivers . 
I've got a pen nee ! said Master Coggan in a scanning measure . 
Well who gave it you , Teddy ? said Liddy . 
Mis terr Bold wood ! He gave it to me for opening the gate . 
A man wanted to once , she said , in a highly experienced tone and the image of Gabriel Oak , as the farmer , rose before her . 
How nice it must seem ! said Liddy , with the fixed features of mental realization . 
And you wouldn't have him ? He wasn't quite good enough for me . 
How sweet to be able to disdain , when most of us are glad to say , 'Thank you ! I seem I hear it . 
'No , sir I'm your better . 
or 'Kiss my foot , sir my face is for mouths of consequence . 
And did you love him , miss ? Oh , no . 
But I rather liked him . 
A crooked file of men was approaching the back door . 
Two or three women in pattens brought up the rear . 
The Philistines be upon us , said Liddy , making her nose white against the glass . 
Maryann , go down and keep them in the kitchen till I am dressed , and then show them in to me in the hall . 
She sat down at a table and opened the time book , pen in her hand , with a canvas money bag beside her . 
From this she poured a small heap of coin . 
Now before I begin , men , said Bathsheba , I have two matters to speak of . 
The men breathed an audible breath of amazement . 
The next matter is , have you heard anything of Fanny ? Nothing , ma'am . 
And the new shepherd have been to Buck's Head , by Yalbury , thinking she had gone there , but nobody had seed her , said Laban Tall . 
Hasn't William Smallbury been to Casterbridge ? Yes , ma'am , but he's not yet come home . 
He promised to be back by six . 
It wants a quarter to six at present , said Bathsheba , looking at her watch . 
I daresay he'll be in directly . 
Well , now then she looked into the book Joseph Poorgrass , are you there ? Yes , sir ma'am I mane , said the person addressed . 
I be the personal name of Poorgrass . 
And what are you ? Nothing in my own eye . 
In the eye of other people well , I don't say it though public thought will out . 
How much to you ? Please nine and ninepence and a good halfpenny where 'twas a bad one , sir ma'am I mane . 
Now here are ten shillings in addition as a small present , as I am a new comer . 
How much do I owe you that man in the corner what's your name ? continued Bathsheba . 
Matthew Mark , did you say ? speak out I shall not hurt you , inquired the young farmer , kindly . 
Matthew Moon , mem , said Henery Fray , correctingly , from behind her chair , to which point he had edged himself . 
Matthew Moon , murmured Bathsheba , turning her bright eyes to the book . 
Ten and twopence halfpenny is the sum put down to you , I see ? Yes , mis'ess , said Matthew , as the rustle of wind among dead leaves . 
Here it is , and ten shillings . 
Now the next Andrew Randle , you are a new man , I hear . 
'A can cuss , mem , as well as you or I , but 'a can't speak a common speech to save his life . 
Andrew Randle , here's yours finish thanking me in a day or two . 
Temperance Miller oh , here's another , Soberness both women I suppose ? Yes'm . 
Here we be , 'a b'lieve , was echoed in shrill unison . 
Are they satisfactory women ? she inquired softly of Henery Fray . 
Oh mem don't ask me ! Yielding women as scarlet a pair as ever was ! groaned Henery under his breath . 
Laban Tall , you'll stay on working for me ? For you or anybody that pays me well , ma'am , replied the young married man . 
True the man must live ! said a woman in the back quarter , who had just entered with clicking pattens . 
What woman is that ? Bathsheba asked . 
I be his lawful wife ! continued the voice with greater prominence of manner and tone . 
This lady called herself five and twenty , looked thirty , passed as thirty five , and was forty . 
She was a woman who never , like some newly married , showed conjugal tenderness in public , perhaps because she had none to show . 
Oh , you are , said Bathsheba . 
Well , Laban , will you stay on ? Yes , he'll stay , ma'am ! said again the shrill tongue of Laban's lawful wife . 
Well , he can speak for himself , I suppose . 
Oh Lord , not he , ma'am ! A simple tool . 
The names remaining were called in the same manner . 
Now I think I have done with you , said Bathsheba , closing the book and shaking back a stray twine of hair . 
Has William Smallbury returned ? No , ma'am . 
The new shepherd will want a man under him , suggested Henery Fray , trying to make himself official again by a sideway approach towards her chair . 
No , I don't mind that , said Gabriel . 
How did Cain come by such a name ? asked Bathsheba . 
'Tis very unfortunate for the boy . 
However , we soften it down as much as we can , and call him Cainy . 
Ah , pore widow woman ! she cried her heart out about it almost . 
Mr. Fray here drew up his features to the mild degree of melancholy required when the persons involved in the given misfortune do not belong to your own family . 
Very well then , Cainey Ball to be under shepherd . 
And you quite understand your duties ? you I mean , Gabriel Oak ? Quite well , I thank you , Miss Everdene , said Shepard Oak from the doorpost . 
If I don't , I'll inquire . 
Gabriel was rather staggered by the remarkable coolness of her manner . 
Certainly nobody without previous information would have dreamt that Oak and the handsome woman before whom he stood had ever been other than strangers . 
But perhaps her air was the inevitable result of the social rise which had advanced her from a cottage to a large house and fields . 
The case is not unexampled in high places . 
Footsteps were heard in the passage , combining in their character the qualities both of weight and measure , rather at the expense of velocity . 
Here's Billy Smallbury come from Casterbridge . 
I should have been sooner , miss , he said , if it hadn't been for the weather . 
He then stamped with each foot severely , and on looking down his boots were perceived to be clogged with snow . 
Come at last , is it ? said Henery . 
Well , what about Fanny ? said Bathsheba . 
Well , ma'am , in round numbers , she's run away with the soldiers , said William . 
No not a steady girl like Fanny ! I'll tell ye all particulars . 
When I got to Casterbridge Barracks , they said , 'The Eleventh Dragoon Guards be gone away , and new troops have come . 
The Eleventh left last week for Melchester and onwards . 
The Route came from Government like a thief in the night , as is his nature to , and afore the Eleventh knew it almost , they were on the march . 
Gabriel had listened with interest . 
I saw them go , he said . 
Yes , continued William , they pranced down the street playing 'The Girl I Left Behind Me , so 'tis said , in glorious notes of triumph . 
And so I said to myself , Fanny's young man was one of the regiment , and she's gone after him . 
There , ma'am , that's it in black and white . 
Did you find out his name ? No nobody knew it . 
I believe he was higher in rank than a private . 
Gabriel remained musing and said nothing , for he was in doubt . 
Well , we are not likely to know more to night , at any rate , said Bathsheba . 
But one of you had better run across to Farmer Boldwood's and tell him that much . 
Now mind , you have a mistress instead of a master . 
I don't yet know my powers or my talents in farming but I shall do my best , and if you serve me well , so shall I serve you . 
suppose that because I'm a woman I don't understand the difference between bad goings on and good . 
No'm ! Excellent well said . 
I shall be up before you are awake I shall be afield before you are up and I shall have breakfasted before you are afield . 
In short , I shall astonish you all . 
Yes'm ! And so good night . 
Liddy , elevating her feelings to the occasion from a sense of grandeur , floated off behind Bathsheba with a milder dignity not entirely free from travesty , and the door was closed . 
The scene was a public path , bordered on the left hand by a river , behind which rose a high wall . 
On the right was a tract of land , partly meadow and partly moor , reaching , at its remote verge , to a wide undulating uplan . 
The changes of the seasons are less obtrusive on spots of this kind than amid woodland scenery . 
Many are not so stealthy and gradual as we may be apt to imagine in considering the general torpidity of a moor or waste . 
From this chaotic skyful of crowding flakes the mead and moor momentarily received additional clothing , only to appear momentarily more naked thereby . 
We turn our attention to the left hand characteristics which were flatness in respect of the river , verticality in respect of the wall behind it , and darkness as to both . 
These features made up the mass . 
If anything could be darker than the sky , it was the wall , and if any thing could be gloomier than the wall it was the river beneath . 
Below , down to the water's edge , the flat was unbroken by hole or projection . 
An indescribable succession of dull blows , perplexing in their regularity , sent their sound with difficulty through the fluffy atmosphere . 
It was a neighbouring clock striking ten . 
The bell was in the open air , and being overlaid with several inches of muffling snow , had lost its voice for the time . 
About this hour the snow abated ten flakes fell where twenty had fallen , then one had the room of ten . 
Not long after a form moved by the brink of the river . 
By its outline upon the colourless background , a close observer might have seen that it was small . 
This was all that was positively discoverable , though it seemed human . 
The shape went slowly along , but without much exertion , for the snow , though sudden , was not as yet more than two inches deep . 
At this time some words were spoken aloud One . 
Between each utterance the little shape advanced about half a dozen yards . 
It was evident now that the windows high in the wall were being counted . 
The word Five represented the fifth window from the end of the wall . 
Here the spot stopped , and dwindled smaller . 
Then a morsel of snow flew across the river towards the fifth window . 
It smacked against the wall at a point several yards from its mark . 
The throw was the idea of a man conjoined with the execution of a woman . 
No man who had ever seen bird , rabbit , or squirrel in his childhood , could possibly have thrown with such utter imbecility as was shown here . 
Another attempt , and another till by degrees the wall must have become pimpled with the adhering lumps of snow At last one fragment struck the fifth window . 
The window was struck again in the same manner . 
Then a noise was heard , apparently produced by the opening of the window . 
This was followed by a voice from the same quarter . 
Who's there ? The tones were masculine , and not those of surprise . 
The high wall being that of a barrack , and marriage being looked upon with disfavour in the army , assignations and communications had probably been made across the river before tonight . 
Is it Sergeant Troy ? said the blurred spot in the snow , tremulously . 
Yes , came suspiciously from the shadow . 
What girl are you ? Oh , Frank don't you know me ? said the spot . 
Your wife , Fanny Robin . 
Fanny ! said the wall , in utter astonishment . 
Yes , said the girl , with a half suppressed gasp of emotion . 
There was something in the woman's tone which is not that of the wife , and there was a manner in the man which is rarely a husband's . 
The dialogue went on How did you come here ? I asked which was your window . 
Forgive me ! I did not expect you to night . 
Indeed , I did not think you would come at all . 
It was a wonder you found me here . 
I am orderly to morrow . 
You said I was to come . 
Well I said that you might . 
Yes , I mean that I might . 
You are glad to see me , Frank ? Oh yes of course . 
Can you come to me ! My dear Fan , no ! The bugle has sounded , the barrack gates are closed , and I have no leave . 
We are all of us as good as in the county gaol till to morrow morning . 
Then I shan't see you till then ! The words were in a faltering tone of disappointment . 
How did you get here from Weatherbury ? I walked some part of the way the rest by the carriers . 
Yes so am I. And Frank , when will it be ? What ? That you promised . 
O you do ! Don't speak like that . 
It weighs me to the earth . 
It makes me say what ought to be said first by you . 
O , must I ? it is , when shall we be married , Frank ? Oh , I see . 
Well you have to get proper clothes . 
Will it be by banns or license ? Banns , I should think . 
And we live in two parishes . 
Do we ? What then ? My lodgings are in St . 
Mary's , and this is not . 
So they will have to be published in both . 
Is that the law ? Yes . 
O Frank you think me forward , I am afraid ! Don't , dear Frank will you for I love you so . 
And you said lots of times you would marry me , and and I I I Don't cry , now ! It is foolish . 
If I said so , of course I will . 
And shall I put up the banns in my parish , and will you in yours ? Yes To morrow ? Not tomorrow . 
We'll settle in a few days . 
You have the permission of the officers ? No , not yet . 
O how is it ? You said you almost had before you left Casterbridge . 
The fact is , I forgot to ask . 
Your coming like this is so sudden and unexpected . 
It was wrong of me to worry you . 
Will you come and see me to morrow , at Mrs. Twills's , in North Street ? I don't like to come to the Barracks . 
There are bad women about , and they think me one . 
I'll come to you , my dear . 
Good night , Frank good night ! And the noise was again heard of a window closing . 
The little spot moved away . 
When she passed the corner a subdued exclamation was heard inside the wall . 
Among these heavy yeomen a feminine figure glided , the single one of her sex that the room contained . 
She was prettily and even daintily dressed . 
She moved between them as a chaise between carts , was heard after them as a romance after sermons , was felt among them like a breeze among furnaces . 
Two or three only of the farmers were personally known to Bathsheba , and to these she had made her way . 
Bathsheba too had her sample bags , and by degrees adopted the professional pour into the hand holding up the grains in her narrow palm for inspection , in perfect Casterbridge manner . 
Strange to say of a woman in full bloom and vigor , she always allowed her interlocutors to finish their statements before rejoining with hers . 
In arguing on prices , she held to her own firmly , as was natural in a dealer , and reduced theirs persistently , as was inevitable in a woman . 
But there was an elasticity in her firmness which removed it from obstinacy , as there was a naivete in her cheapening which saved it from meanness . 
The other man would then shake his head . 
Yes , 'tis a pity she's so headstrong , the first would say . 
But we ought to be proud of her here she lightens up the old place . 
'Tis such a shapely maid , however , that she'll soon get picked up . 
The numerous evidences of her power to attract were only thrown into greater relief by a marked exception . 
Women seem to have eyes in their ribbons for such matters as these . 
Bathsheba , without looking within a right angle of him , was conscious of a black sheep among the flock . 
If there had been a respectable minority on either side , the case would have been most natural . 
If nobody had regarded her , she would have taken the matter indifferently such cases had occurred . 
If everybody , this man included , she would have taken it as a matter of course people had done so before . 
But the smallness of the exception made the mystery . 
She soon knew thus much of the recusant's appearance . 
He was a gentlemanly man , with full and distinctly outlined Roman features , the prominences of which glowed in the sun with a bronze like richness of tone . 
He was erect in attitude , and quiet in demeanour . 
One characteristic pre eminently marked him dignity . 
Thirty five and fifty were his limits of variation he might have been either , or anywhere between the two . 
It may be said that married men of forty are usually ready and generous enough to fling passing glances at any specimen of moderate beauty they may discern by the way . 
Bathsheba was convinced that this unmoved person was not a married man . 
When marketing was over , she rushed off to Liddy , who was waiting for her beside the yellowing in which they had driven to town . 
I've been through it , Liddy , and it is over . 
Men be such a terrible class of society to look at a body . 
But there was one man who had more sense than to waste his time upon me . 
The information was put in this form that Liddy might not for a moment suppose her mistress was at all piqued . 
A very good looking man , she continued , upright about forty , I should think . 
Do you know at all who he could be ? Liddy couldn't think . 
Can't you guess at all ? said Bathsheba with some disappointment . 
I haven't a notion besides , 'tis no difference , since he took less notice of you than any of the rest . 
Now , if he'd taken more , it would have mattered a great deal . 
Bathsheba was suffering from the reverse feeling just then , and they bowled along in silence . 
A low carriage , bowling along still more rapidly behind a horse of unimpeachable breed , overtook and passed them . 
Why , there he is ! she said . 
That ! That's Farmer Boldwood of course 'tis the man you couldn't see the other day when he called . 
Oh , Farmer Boldwood , murmured Bathsheba , and looked at him as he outstripped them . 
He's an interesting man don't you think so ? she remarked . 
Everybody owns it , replied Liddy . 
I wonder why he is so wrapt up and indifferent , and seemingly so far away from all he sees around him . 
It is said but not known for certain that he met with some bitter disappointment when he was a young man and merry . 
A woman jilted him , they say . 
People always say that and we know very well women scarcely ever jilt men 'tis the men who jilt us . 
I expect it is simply his nature to be so reserved . 
Simply his nature I expect so , miss nothing else in the world . 
Still , 'tis more romantic to think he has been served cruelly , poor thing' ! Perhaps , after all , he has ! Depend upon it he has . 
Oh yes , miss , he has ! I feel he must have . 
However , we are very apt to think extremes of people . 
I shouldn't wonder after all if it wasn't a little of both just between the two rather cruelly used and rather reserved . 
Oh dear no , miss I can't think it between the two ! That's most likely . 
Well , yes , so it is . 
I am convinced it is most likely . 
You may take my word , miss , that that's what's the matter with him . 
CHAPTER XIII SORTES SANCTORUM THE VALENTINE IT was Sunday afternoon in the farmhouse , on the thirteenth of February . 
Dinner being over , Bathsheba , for want of a better companion , had asked Liddy to come and sit with her . 
Liddy , like a little brook , though shallow , was always rippling her presence had not so much weight as to task thought , and yet enough to exercise it . 
On the table lay an old quarto Bible , bound in leather . 
As if such things could be . 
Well , there's a good deal in it , all the same . 
And it makes your heart beat fearful . 
Some believe in it some don't I do . 
Go and get the front door key . 
I wish it wasn't Sunday , she said , on returning . 
What's right week days is right Sundays , replied her mistress in a tone which was a proof in itself . 
The special verse in the Book of Ruth was sought out by Bathsheba , and the sublime words met her eye . 
They slightly thrilled and abashed her . 
It was Wisdom in the abstract facing Folly in the concrete . 
Folly in the concrete blushed , persisted in her intention , and placed the key on the book . 
Now keep steady , and be silent , said Bathsheba . 
The verse was repeated the book turned round Bathsheba blushed guiltily . 
Who did you try ? said Liddy curiously . 
I shall not tell you . 
Did you notice Mr. Boldwood's doings in church this morning , miss ? Liddy continued , adumbrating by the remark the track her thoughts had taken . 
No , indeed , said Bathsheba , with serene indifference . 
His pew is exactly opposite yours , miss . 
And you did not see his goings on ! Certainly I did not , I tell you . 
Liddy assumed a smaller physiognomy , and shut her lips decisively . 
This move was unexpected , and proportionately disconcerting . 
What did he do ? Bathsheba said perforce . 
Didn't turn his head to look at you once all the service . 
Why should he ? again demanded her mistress , wearing a nettled look . 
I didn't ask him to . 
But everybody else was noticing you and it was odd he didn't . 
There , 'tis like him . 
Dear me I had nearly forgotten the valentine I bought yesterday , she exclaimed at length . 
Valentine ! who for , miss ? said Liddy . 
Farmer Boldwood ? It was the single name among all possible wrong ones that just at this moment seemed to Bathsheba more pertinent than the right . 
It is only for little Teddy Coggan . 
I have promised him something , and this will be a pretty surprise for him . 
Liddy , you may as well bring me my desk and I'll direct it at once . 
Bathsheba took from her desk a gorgeously illuminated and embossed design in post octavo , which had been bought on the previous market day at the chief stationer's in Casterbridge . 
Here's a place for writing , said Bathsheba . 
What shall I put ? Something of this sort , I should think' , returned Liddy promptly The rose is red , The violet blue , Carnation's sweet , And so are you . 
Yes , that shall be it . 
It just suits itself to a chubby faced child like him , said Bathsheba . 
She inserted the words in a small though legible handwriting enclosed the sheet in an envelope , and dipped her pen for the direction . 
Bathsheba paused to regard the idea at full length . 
She was far from being seriously concerned about his nonconformity . 
Still , it was faintly depressing that the most dignified and valuable man in the parish should withhold his eyes , and that a girl like Liddy should talk about it . 
So Liddy's idea was at first rather harassing than piquant . 
No , I won't do that . 
He wouldn't see any humour in it . 
He'd worry to death , said the persistent Liddy . 
Really , I don't care particularly to send it to Teddy , remarked her mistress . 
He's rather a naughty child sometimes . 
Let's toss as men do , said Bathsheba , idly . 
Now then , head , Boldwood tail , Teddy . 
No , we won't toss money on a Sunday that would be tempting the devil indeed . 
Toss this hymn book there can't be no sinfulness in that , miss . 
Open , Boldwood shut , Teddy . 
No it's more likely to fall open . 
Open , Teddy shut , Boldwood . 
The book went fluttering in the air and came down shut . 
Bathsheba , a small yawn upon her mouth , took the pen , and with off hand serenity directed the missive to Boldwood . 
Now light a candle , Liddy . 
Which seal shall we use ? Here's a unicorn's head there's nothing in that . 
What's this ? two doves no . 
It ought to be something extraordinary , ought it not , Liddy ? Here's one with a motto I remember it is some funny one , but I can't read it . 
We'll try this , and if it doesn't do we'll have another . 
A large red seal was duly affixed . 
Bathsheba looked closely at the hot wax to discover the words . 
Capital ! she exclaimed , throwing down the letter frolicsomely . 
'Twould upset the solemnity of a parson and clerke too . 
Liddy looked at the words of the seal , and read MARRY ME . 
The same evening the letter was sent , and was duly sorted in Casterbridge post office that night , to be returned to Weatherbury again in the morning . 
So very idly and unreflectingly was this deed done . 
Of love as a spectacle Bathsheba had a fair knowledge but of love subjectively she knew nothing . 
CHAPTER XIV EFFECT OF THE LETTER SUNRISE AT dusk , on the evening of St . 
Valentine's Day , Bold wood sat down to supper as usual , by a beaming fire of aged logs . 
Upon the mantel shelf before him was a time piece , surmounted by a spread eagle , and upon the eagle's wings was the letter Bathsheba had sent . 
The pert injunction was like those crystal substances which , colourless themselves , assume the tone of objects about them . 
Since the receipt of the missive in the morning , Boldwood had felt the symmetry of his existence to be slowly getting distorted in the direction of an ideal passion . 
The disturbance was as the first floating weed to Columbus the contemptibly little suggesting possibilities of the infinitely great . 
The letter must have had an origin and a motive . 
That the latter was of the smallest magnitude compatible with its existence at all , Boldwood , of course , did not know . 
And such an explanation did not strike him as a possibility even . 
The vast difference between starting a train of events , and directing into a particular groove a series already started , is rarely apparent to the person confounded by the issue . 
When Boldwood went to bed he placed the valentine in the corner of the looking glass . 
He was conscious of its presence , even when his back was turned upon it . 
It was the first time in Boldwood's life that such an event had occurred . 
The same fascination that caused him to think it an act which had a deliberate motive prevented him from regarding it as an impertinence . 
He looked again at the direction . 
The mysterious influences of night invested the writing with the presence of the unknown writer . 
Somebody's some WOMAN'S hand had travelled softly over the paper bearing his name her unrevealed eyes had watched every curve as she formed it her brain had seen him in imagination the while . 
She was a misty shape , and well she might be , considering that her original was at that moment sound asleep and oblivious of all love and letter writing under the sky . 
Whenever Boldwood dozed she took a form , and comparatively ceased to be a vision when he awoke there was the letter justifying the dream . 
The moon shone to night , and its light was not of a customary kind . 
The substance of the epistle had occupied him but little in comparison with the fact of its arrival . 
He suddenly wondered if anything more might be found in the envelope than what he had withdrawn . 
He jumped out of bed in the weird light , took the letter , pulled out the flimsy sheet , shook the envelope searched it . 
Boldwood looked , as he had a hundred times the preceding day , at the insistent red seal Marry me , he said aloud . 
The solemn and reserved yeoman again closed the letter , and stuck it in the frame of the glass . 
In doing so he caught sight of his reflected features , wan in expression , and insubstantial in form . 
He saw how closely compressed was his mouth , and that his eyes were wide spread and vacant . 
Feeling uneasy and dissatisfied with himself for this nervous excitability , he returned to bed . 
Then the dawn drew on . 
The full power of the clear heaven was not equal to that of a cloudy sky at noon , when Boldwood arose and dressed himself . 
He descended the stairs and went out towards the gate of a field to the east , leaning over which he paused and looked around . 
The whole effect resembled a sunset as childhood resembles age . 
Over the west hung the wasting moon , now dull and greenish yellow , like tarnished brass . 
A half muffled noise of light wheels interrupted him . 
Boldwood turned back into the road . 
It was the mail cart a crazy , two wheeled vehicle , hardly heavy enough to resist a puff of wind . 
The driver held out a letter . 
Boldwood seized it and opened it , expecting another anonymous one so greatly are people's ideas of probability a mere sense that precedent will repeat itself . 
I don't think it is for you , sir , said the man , when he saw Boldwood's action . 
Though there is no name I think it is for your shepherd . 
Boldwood looked then at the address To the New Shepherd , Weatherbury Farm , Near Casterbridge . 
Oh what a mistake ! it is not mine . 
Nor is it for my shepherd . 
It is for Miss Everdene's . 
You had better take it on to him Gabriel Oak and say I opened it in mistake . 
At this moment , on the ridge , up against the blazing sky , a figure was visible , like the black snuff in the midst of a candle flame . 
Then it moved and began to bustle about vigorously from place to place , carrying square skeleton masses , which were riddled by the same rays . 
A small figure on all fours followed behind . 
The tall form was that of Gabriel Oak the small one that of George the articles in course of transit were hurdles . 
That's the man on the hill . 
I'll take the letter to him myself . 
To Boldwood it was now no longer merely a letter to I another man . 
Exhibiting a face pregnant with intention , he entered the snowy field . 
Gabriel , at that minute , descended the hill towards the right . 
The glow stretched down in this direction now , and touched the distant roof of Warren's Malthouse whither the shepherd was apparently bent Boldwood followed at a distance . 
The maltster , after having lain down in his clothes for a few hours , was now sitting beside a three legged table , breakfasting of bread and bacon . 
The maltster's lack of teeth appeared not to sensibly diminish his powers as a mill . 
He had been without them for so many years that toothlessness was felt less to be a defect than hard gums an acquisition . 
In the ashpit was a heap of potatoes roasting , and a boiling pipkin of charred bread , called coffee . 
for the benefit of whomsoever should call , for Warren's was a sort of clubhouse , used as an alternative to the inn . 
The form of Henery Fray advanced to the fire , stamping the snow from his boots when about half way there . 
He picked up a fragment of cheese , by pecking upon it with his knife , as a butcher picks up skewers . 
And how is she getting on without a baily ? the maltster inquired . 
Henery shook his head , and smiled one of the bitter smiles , dragging all the flesh of his forehead into a corrugated heap in the centre . 
She'll rue it surely , surely ! he said Benjy Pennyways were not a true man or an honest baily as big a betrayer as Judas Iscariot himself . 
But to think she can carr' on alone ! He allowed his head to swing laterally three or four times in silence . 
All will be ruined , and ourselves too , or there's no meat in gentlemen's houses ! said Mark Clark . 
A headstrong maid , that's what she is and won't listen to no advice at all . 
Pride and vanity have ruined many a cobbler's dog . 
'Twould do a martel man no harm to have what's under her bonnet , said Billy Smallbury , who had just entered , bearing his one tooth before him . 
She can spaik real language , and must have some sense somewhere . 
There , 'twas to be , I suppose . 
No , no I don't agree with'ee there , said Mark Clark . 
God's a perfect gentleman in that respect . 
Good works good pay , so to speak it , attested Joseph Poorgrass . 
I wonder what a farmer woman can want with a harpsichord , dulcimer , pianner , or whatever 'tis they d'call it ? said the maltster . 
Liddy saith she've a new one . 
Got a pianner ? Ay . 
Seems her old uncle's things were not good enough for her . 
She've bought all but everything new . 
There's heavy chairs for the stout , weak and wiry ones for the slender great watches , getting on to the size of clocks , to stand upon the chimbley piece . 
Pictures , for the most part wonderful frames . 
And long horse hair settles for the drunk , with horse hair pillows at each end , said Mr. Clark . 
Likewise looking glasses for the pretty , and lying books for the wicked . 
The door was flung back till it kicked the wall and trembled from top to bottom with the blow . 
Four lambs hung in various embarrassing attitudes over his shoulders , and the dog George , whom Gabriel had contrived to fetch from Norcombe , stalked solemnly behind . 
Well , Shepherd Oak , and how's lambing this year , if I mid say it ? inquired Joseph Poorgrass . 
Terrible trying , said Oak . 
I've been wet through twice a day , either in snow or rain , this last fortnight . 
Cainy and I haven't tined our eyes to night . 
A good few twins , too , I hear ? Too many by half . 
Yes 'tis a very queer lambing this year . 
We shan't have done by Lady Day . 
And last year 'twer all over by Sexajessamine Sunday , Joseph remarked . 
Bring on the rest Cain , said Gabriel , and then run back to the ewes . 
Cainy Ball a cheery faced young lad , with a small circular orifice by way of mouth , advanced and deposited two others , and retired as he was bidden . 
Oak lowered the lambs from their unnatural elevation , wrapped them in hay , and placed them round the fire . 
We've no lambing hut here , as I used to have at Norcombe , said Gabriel , and 'tis such a plague to bring the weakly ones to a house . 
If 'twasn't for your place here , malter , I don't know what I should do ! this keen weather . 
And how is it with you to day , malter ? Oh , neither sick nor sorry , shepherd but no younger . 
Sit down , Shepherd Oak , continued the ancient man of malt . 
Is it true that Dicky Hill's wooden cider house is pulled down ? Oh yes years ago , and Dicky's cottage just above it . 
Well , to be sure ! Yes and Tompkins's old apple tree is rooted that used to bear two hogsheads of cider and no help from other trees . 
Rooted ? you don't say it ! Ah ! stirring times we live in stirring times . 
Dear , dear how the face of nations alter , and what we live to see nowadays ! Yes and 'tis the same here . 
They've been talking but now of the mis'ess's strange doings . 
What have you been saying about her ? inquired Oak , sharply turning to the rest , and getting very warm . 
These middle aged men have been pulling her over the coals for pride and vanity , said Mark Clark but I say , let her have rope enough . 
Bless her pretty face shouldn't I like to do so upon her cherry lips ! The gallant Mark Clark here made a peculiar and well known sound with his own . 
Mark , said Gabriel , sternly , now you mind this ! none of that dalliance talk that smack and coddle style of yours about Miss Everdene . 
Do you hear ? With all my heart , as I've got no chance , replied Mr. Clark , cordially . 
I suppose you've been speaking against her ? said Oak , turning to Joseph Poorgrass with a very grim look . 
No , no not a word I 'tis a real joyful thing that she's no worse , that's what I say , said Joseph , trembling and blushing with terror . 
Matthew just said Matthew Moon , what have you been saying ? asked Oak . 
I ? Why ye know I wouldn't harm a worm no , not one underground worm ? said Matthew Moon , looking very uneasy . 
he'll smell and taste that or I'm a Dutchman . 
The dog George looked up at the same time after the shepherd's menace , and though he understood English but imperfectly , began to growl . 
Now , don't ye take on so , shepherd , and sit down ! said Henery , with a deprecating peacefulness equal to anything of the kind in Christianity . 
We hear that ye be a extraordinary good and clever man , shepherd , said Joseph Poorgrass with considerable anxiety from behind the maltster's bedstead whither he had retired for safety . 
Who's been telling you I'm clever ? said Oak . 
'Tis blowed about from pillar to post quite common , said Matthew . 
We hear that ye can tell the time as well by the stars as we can by the sun and moon , shepherd . 
Yes , I can do a little that way , said Gabriel , as a man of medium sentiments on the subject . 
And that ye can make sun dials and prent folks' names upon their waggons almost like copper plate , with beautiful flourishes , and great long tails . 
A excellent fine thing for ye to be such a clever man , shepherd . 
And so you used to do 'em the wrong way , like this , didn't ye , Joseph ? Matthew marked on the dusty floor with his whip handle . 
Ay 'a would , said Joseph , meekly . 
'Tis a very bad afiction for ye , being such a man of calamities in other ways . 
Well , 'tis but a happy Providence ordered that it should be no worse , and I feel my thanks . 
As to shepherd , there , I'm sure mis'ess ought to have made ye her baily such a fitting man for't as you be . 
I don't mind owning that I expected it , said Oak , frankly . 
Indeed , I hoped for the place . 
At the same time , Miss Everdene has a right to be her own baily if she choose and to keep me down to be a common shepherd only . 
Oak drew a slow breath , looked sadly into the bright ashpit , and seemed lost in thoughts not of the most hopeful hue . 
And she don't even let ye have the skins of the dead lambs , I hear ? resumed Joseph Poorgrass , his eyes lingering on the operations of Oak with the necessary melancholy . 
I don't have them , said Gabriel . 
Ye be very badly used , shepherd , hazarded Joseph again , in the hope of getting Oak as an ally in lamentation after all . 
I think she's took against ye that I do . 
Oh no not at all , replied Gabriel , hastily , and a sigh escaped him , which the deprivation of lamb skins could hardly have caused . 
Before any further remark had been added a shade darkened the door , and Boldwood entered the malthouse , bestowing upon each a nod of a quality between friendliness and condescension . 
Ah ! Oak , I thought you were here , he said . 
I met the mail cart ten minutes ago , and a letter was put into my hand , which I opened without reading the address . 
I believe it is yours . 
You must excuse the accident please . 
Oh yes not a bit of difference , Mr. Boldwood not a bit , said Gabriel , readily . 
He had not a correspondent on earth , nor was there a possible letter coming to him whose contents the whole parish would not have been welcome to persue . 
I also return the money I owe you , which you will excuse my not keeping as a gift . 
He would , I know , object to my having received anything except as a loan , being a man of great respectability and high honour indeed , a nobleman by blood . 
I should be much obliged to you if you would keep the contents of this letter a secret for the present , dear friend . 
We mean to surprise Weatherbury by coming there soon as husband and wife , though l blush to state it to one nearly a stranger . 
The sergeant grew up in Weatherbury . 
Thanking you again for your kindness , I am , your sincere well wisher , FANNY ROBIN . 
Have you read it , Mr. Boldwood ? said Gabriel if not , you had better do so . 
I know you are interested in Fanny Robin . 
Boldwood read the letter and looked grieved . 
Fanny poor Fanny ! the end she is so confident of has not yet come , she should remember and may never come . 
I see she gives no address . 
What sort of a man is this Sergeant Troy ? said Gabriel . 
H'm I'm afraid not one to build much hope upon in such a case as this , the farmer murmured , though he's a clever fellow , and up to everything . 
A slight romance attaches to him , too . 
His mother was a French governess , and it seems that a secret attachment existed between her and the late Lord Severn . 
She was married to a poor medical man , and soon after an infant was horn and while money was forthcoming all went on well . 
Unfortunately for her boy , his best friends died and he got then a situation as second clerk at a lawyer's in Casterbridge . 
He stayed there for some time , and might have worked himself into a dignified position of some sort had he not indulged in the wild freak of enlisting . 
I have much doubt if ever little Fanny will surprise us in the way she mentions very much doubt . 
Now , Cain Ball , said Oak , sternly , why will you run so fast and lose your breath so ? I'm always telling you of it . 
Two more ewes have twinned that's what's the matter , Shepherd Oak . 
Oh , that's it , said Oak , jumping up , and dimissing for the present his thoughts on poor Fanny . 
You are a good boy to run and tell me , Cain , and you shall smell a large plum pudding some day as a treat . 
But , before we go , Cainy , bring the tarpot , and we'll mark this lot and have done with 'em . 
Now , Cainy , shoulder your two , and off . 
Good morning , Mr. Boldwood . 
Boldwood followed him a little way up the field , hesitated , and turned back . 
He followed him again with a last resolve , annihilating return . 
On approaching the nook in which the fold was constructed , the farmer drew out his pocket book , unfastened it , and allowed it to lie open on his hand . 
A letter was revealed Bathsheba's . 
Oak had coloured simply at the consciousness of sounding her name . 
He now felt a strangely distressing qualm from a new thought . 
The letter could of course be no other than anonymous , or the inquiry would not have been necessary . 
Boldwood mistook his confusion sensitive persons are always ready with their Is it I ? in preference to objective reasoning . 
The question was perfectly fair , he returned and there was something incongruous in the serious earnestness with which he applied himself to an argument on a valentine . 
You know it is always expected that privy inquiries will be made that's where the fun lies . 
If the word fun had been torture . 
it could not have been uttered with a more constrained and restless countenance than was Boldwood's then . 
He again placed the letter on the mantelpiece , and sat down to think of the circumstances attending it by the light of Gabriel's information . 
They were about to disperse , when a smart footstep , entering the porch and coming up the central passage , arrested their attention . 
The step echoed with a ring unusual in a church it was the clink of spurs . 
Here for a moment he stood alone . 
The officiating curate , who had not yet doffed his surplice , perceived the new comer , and followed him to the communion space . 
'Tis a wedding ! murmured some of the women , brightening . 
Let's wait ! The majority again sat down . 
There was a creaking of machinery behind , and some of the young ones turned their heads . 
Between the tower and the church was a close screen , the door of which was kept shut during services , hiding this grotesque clockwork from sight . 
The jack had struck half past eleven . 
Where's the woman ? whispered some of the spectators . 
The young sergeant stood still with the abnormal rigidity of the old pillars around . 
He faced the south east , and was as silent as he was still . 
The silence grew to be a noticeable thing as the minutes went on , and nobody else appeared , and not a soul moved . 
I wonder where the woman is ! a voice whispered again . 
There began now that slight shifting of feet , that artificial coughing among several , which betrays a nervous suspense . 
At length there was a titter . 
But the soldier never moved . 
There he stood , his face to the south east , upright as a column , his cap in his hand . 
The women threw off their nervousness , and titters and giggling became more frequent . 
Then came a dead silence . 
Every one was waiting for the end . 
Some persons may have noticed how extraordinarily the striking of quarters . 
seems to quicken the flight of time . 
Then , followed the dull and remote resonance of the twelve heavy strokes in the tower above . 
The women were impressed , and there was no giggle this time . 
The clergyman glided into the vestry , and the clerk vanished . 
The sergeant had not yet turned every woman in the church was waiting to see his face , and he appeared to know it . 
At last he did turn , and stalked resolutely down the nave , braving them all , with a compressed lip . 
Two bowed and toothless old almsmen then looked at each other and chuckled , innocently enough but the sound had a strange weird effect in that place . 
Opposite to the church was a paved square , around which several overhanging wood buildings of old time cast a picturesque shade . 
The young man on leaving the door went to cross the square , when , in the middle , he met a little woman . 
The expression of her face , which had been one of intense anxiety , sank at the sight of his nearly to terror . 
Well ? he said , in a suppressed passion , fixedly looking at her . 
I waited till a quarter to twelve , and found then that I was in All Souls' . 
But I wasn't much frightened , for I thought it could be to morrow as well . 
You fool , for so fooling me ! But say no more . 
Shall it be to morrow , Frank ? she asked blankly . 
To morrow ! and he gave vent to a hoarse laugh . 
CHAPTER XVII IN THE MARKET PLACE ON Saturday Boldwood was in Casterbridge market house as usual , when the disturber of his dreams entered and became visible to him . 
Adam had awakened from his deep sleep , and behold ! there was Eve . 
The farmer took courage , and for the first time really looked at her . 
Material causes and emotional effects are not to be arranged in regular equation . 
The result from capital employed in the production of any movement of a mental nature is sometimes as tremendous as the cause itself is absurdly minute . 
He saw her black hair , her correct facial curves and profile , and the roundness of her chin and throat . 
He saw then the side of her eyelids , eyes , and lashes , and the shape of her ear . 
Next he noticed her figure , her skirt , and the very soles of her shoes . 
To the best of his judgement neither nature nor art could improve this perfect one of an imperfect many . 
His heart began to move within him . 
Was she really beautiful ? He could not assure himself that his opinion was true even now . 
He furtively said to a neighbour , Is Miss Everdene considered handsome ? Oh yes she was a good deal noticed the first time she came , if you remember . 
A very handsome girl indeed . 
And this charming woman had in effect said to him , Marry me . 
She was at this moment coolly dealing with a dashing young farmer , adding up accounts with him as indifferently as if his face had been the pages of a ledger . 
It was evident that such a nature as his had no attraction for a woman of Bathsheba's taste . 
But Boldwood grew hot down to his hands with an incipient jealousy he trod for the first time the threshold of the injured lover's hell . 
His first impulse was to go and thrust himself between them . 
This could be done , but only in one way by asking to see a sample of her corn . 
He could not make the request it was debasing loveliness to ask it to buy and sell , and jarred with his conceptions of her . 
All this time Bathsheba was conscious of having broken into that dignified stronghold at last . 
His eyes , she knew , were following her everywhere . 
This was a triumph and had it come naturally , such a triumph would have been the sweeter to her for this piquing delay . 
But it had been brought about by misdirected ingenuity , and she valued it only as she valued an artificial flower or a wax fruit . 
She that day nearly formed the intention of begging his pardon on the very next occasion of their meeting . 
They heard the sound of wheels yet once more , and were re animated to expectancy it was only Mr. Boldwood coming home again . 
Pacing up and down at the heels of the animals was Farmer Boldwood himself . 
His square framed perpendicularity showed more fully now than in the crowd and bustle of the market house . 
A few clear and thread like horizontal lines were the only interruption to the otherwise smooth surface of his large forehead . 
The phases of Boldwood's life were ordinary enough , but his was not an ordinary nature . 
His equilibrium disturbed , he was in extremity at once . 
If an emotion possessed him at all , it ruled him a feeling not mastering him was entirely latent . 
Stagnant or rapid , it was never slow . 
He was always hit mortally , or he was missed . 
He had no light and careless touches in his constitution , either for good or for evil . 
Stern in the outlines of action , mild in the details , he was serious throughout all . 
Bathsheba was far from dreaming that the dark and silent shape upon which she had so carelessly thrown a seed was a hotbed of tropic intensity . 
Had she known Boldwood's moods , her blame would have been fearful , and the stain upon her heart ineradicable . 
Moreover , had she known her present power for good or evil over this man , she would have trembled at her responsibility . 
Luckily for her present , unluckily for her future tranquillity , her understanding had not yet told her what Boldwood was . 
Nobody knew entirely for though it was possible to form guesses concerning his wild capabilities from old floodmarks faintly visible , he had never been seen at the high tides which caused them . 
Farmer Boldwood came to the stable door and looked forth across the level fields . 
Beyond the first enclosure was a hedge , and on the other side of this a meadow belonging to Bathsheba's farm . 
It was now early spring the time of going to grass with the sheep , when they have the first feed of the meadows , before these are laid up for mowing . 
The wind , which had been blowing east for several weeks , had veered to the southward , and the middle of spring had come abruptly almost without a beginning . 
It was that period in the vernal quarter when we map suppose the Dryads to be waking for the season . 
Boldwood , looking into the distant meadows , saw there three figures . 
They were those of Miss Everdene , Shepherd Oak , and Cainy Ball . 
When Bathsheba's figure shone upon the farmer's eyes it lighted him up as the moon lights up a great tower . 
A man's body is as the shell , or the tablet , of his soul , as he is reserved or ingenuous , overflowing or self contained . 
It is the usual experience of strong natures when they love . 
At last he arrived at a conclusion . 
It was to go across and inquire boldly of her . 
The insulation of his heart by reserve during these many years , without a channel of any kind for disposable emotion , had worked its effect . 
It has been observed more than once that the causes of love are chiefly subjective , and Boldwood was a living testimony to the truth of the proposition . 
No mother existed to absorb his devotion , no sister for his tenderness , no idle ties for sense . 
He became surcharged with the compound , which was genuine lover's love . 
He approached the gate of the meadow . 
Beyond it the ground was melodious with ripples , and the sky with larks the low bleating of the flock mingling with both . 
Bathsheba looked up at the completion of the manouvre , and saw the farmer by the gate , where he was overhung by a willow tree in full bloom . 
He also turned and beheld Boldwood . 
Farmer Boldwood had read the pantomime denoting that they were aware of his presence , and the perception was as too much light turned upon his new sensibility . 
He was still in the road , and by moving on he hoped that neither would recognize that he had originally intended to enter the field . 
He passed by with an utter and overwhelming sensation of ignorance , shyness , and doubt . 
Perhaps in her manner there were signs that she wished to see him perhaps not he could not read a woman . 
The cabala of this erotic philosophy seemed to consist of the subtlest meanings expressed in misleading ways . 
Every turn , look , word , and accent contained a mystery quite distinct from its obvious import , and not one had ever been pondered by him until now . 
As for Bathsheba , she was not deceived into the belief that Farmer Boldwood had walked by on business or in idleness . 
She collected the probabilities of the case , and concluded that she was herself responsible for Boldwood's appearance there . 
It troubled her much to see what a great flame a little wildfire was likely to kindle . 
She resolved never again , by look or by sign , to interrupt the steady flow of this man's life . 
But a resolution to avoid an evil is seldom framed till the evil is so far advanced as to make avoidance impossible . 
CHAPTER XIX THE SHEEP WASHING THE OFFER BOLDWOOD did eventually call upon her . 
She was not at home . 
Of course not , he murmured . 
This , and the other oversights Boldwood was guilty of , were natural to the mood , and still more natural to the circumstances . 
The great aids to idealization in love were present here occasional observation of her from a distance , and the absence of social intercourse with her visual familiarity , oral strangeness . 
Thus a mild sort of apotheosis took place in his fancy , whilst she still lived and breathed within his own horizon , a troubled creature like himself . 
It was the end of May when the farmer determined to be no longer repulsed by trivialities or distracted by suspense . 
He had by this time grown used to being in love the passion now startled him less even when it tortured him more , and he felt himself adequate to the situation . 
On inquiring for her at her house they had told him she was at the sheepwashing , and he went off to seek her there . 
The sheep washing pool was a perfectly circular basin of brickwork in the meadows , full of the clearest water . 
To birds on the wing its glassy surface , reflecting the light sky , must have been visible for miles around as a glistening Cyclops' eye in a green face . 
The grass about the margin at this season was a sight to remember long in a minor sort of way . 
Its activity in sucking the moisture from the rich damp sod was almost a process observable by the eye . 
The outskirts of this level water meadow were diversified by rounded and hollow pastures , where just now every flower that was not a buttercup was a daisy . 
The river slid along noiselessly as a shade , the swelling reeds and sedge forming a flexible palisade upon its moist brink . 
From the recesses of this knot of foliage the loud notes of three cuckoos were resounding through the still air . 
Boldwood went meditating down the slopes with his eyes on his boots , which the yellow pollen from the buttercups had bronzed in artistic gradations . 
A tributary of the main stream flowed through the basin of the pool by an inlet and outlet at opposite points of its diameter . 
Flagons of cider were rolling about upon the green . 
They were let out against the stream , and through the upper opening , all impurities flowing away below . 
Bathsheba immediately contrived to withdraw , and glided along by the river till she was a stone's throw off . 
She heard footsteps brushing the grass , and had a consciousness that love was encircling her like a perfume . 
Instead of turning or waiting , Bathsheba went further among the high sedges , but Boldwood seemed determined , and pressed on till they were completely past the bend of the river . 
Here , without being seen , they could hear the splashing and shouts of the washers above . 
Miss Everdene ! said the farmer . 
She trembled , turned , and said Good morning . 
His tone was so utterly removed from all she had expected as a beginning . 
It was lowness and quiet accentuated an emphasis of deep meanings , their form , at the same time , being scarcely expressed . 
Silence has sometimes a remarkable power of showing itself as the disembodied soul of feeling wandering without its carcase , and it is then more impressive than speech . 
In the same way , to say a little is often to tell more than to say a great deal . 
Boldwood told everything in that word . 
As the consciousness expands on learning that what was fancied to be the rumble of wheels is the reverberation of thunder , so did Bathsheba's at her intuitive conviction . 
I feel almost too much to think , he said , with a solemn simplicity . 
I have come to speak to you without preface . 
My life is not my own since I have beheld you clearly , Miss Everdene I come to make you an offer of marriage . 
Bathsheba tried to preserve an absolutely neutral countenance , and all the motion she made was that of closing lips which had previously been a little parted . 
I am now forty one years old , he went on . 
I may have been called a confirmed bachelor , and I was a confirmed bachelor . 
I had never any views of myself as a husband in my earlier days , nor have I made any calculation on the subject since I have been older . 
But we all change , and my change , in this matter , came with seeing you . 
I have felt lately , more and more , that my present way of living is bad in every respect . 
Beyond all things , I want you as my wife . 
I feel , Mr. Boldwood , that though I respect you much , I do not feel what would justify me to in accepting your offer , she stammered . 
This giving back of dignity for dignity seemed to open the sluices of feeling that Boldwood had as yet kept closed . 
My life is a burden without you , he exclaimed , in a low voice . 
I want you for my wife so wildly that no other feeling can abide in me but I should not have spoken out had I not been led to hope . 
The valentine again ! O that valentine ! she said to herself , but not a word to him . 
If you can love me say so , Miss Everdene . 
You are too dignified for me to suit you , sir . 
If you will only pardon my thoughtlessness , I promise never to No , no , no . 
Don't say thoughtlessness ! Make me think it was something more that it was a sort of prophetic instinct the beginning of a feeling that you would like me . 
You torture me to say it was done in thoughtlessness I never thought of it in that light , and I can't endure it . 
Ah ! I wish I knew how to win you ! but that I can't do I can only ask if I have already got you . 
If I have not , and it is not true that you have come unwittingly to me as I have to you , I can say no more . 
I have not fallen in love with you , Mr. Boldwood certainly I must say that . 
Don't say it ! don't ! I cannot bear you to feel so much , and me to feel nothing . 
And I am afraid they will notice us , Mr. Boldwood . 
Will you let the matter rest now ? I cannot think collectedly . 
I did not know you were going to say this to me . 
Oh , I am wicked to have made you suffer so ! She was frightened as well as agitated at his vehemence . 
Say then , that you don't absolutely refuse . 
Do not quite refuse ? I can do nothing . 
I may speak to you again on the subject ? Yes . 
I may think of you ? Yes , I suppose you may think of me . 
And hope to obtain you ? No do not hope ! Let us go on . 
I will call upon you again to morrow . 
Yes I will give you any time , he said earnestly and gratefully . 
No I beg you ! Don't be happier if happiness only comes from my agreeing . 
Be neutral , Mr. Boldwood ! I must think . 
I will wait , he said . 
And then she turned away . 
Boldwood dropped his gaze to the ground , and stood long like a man who did not know where he was . 
Realities then returned upon him like the pain of a wound received in an excitement which eclipses it , and he , too , then went on . 
CHAPTER XX PERPLEXITY GRINDING THE SHEARS A QUARREL HE is so disinterested and kind to offer me all that I can desire , Bathsheba mused . 
Yet Farmer Boldwood , whether by nature kind or the reverse to kind , did not exercise kindness , here . 
The rarest offerings of the purest loves are but a self indulgence , and no generosity at all . 
Bathsheba , not being the least in love with him , was eventually able to look calmly at his offer . 
It was one which many women of her own station in the neighbourhood , and not a few of higher rank , would have been wild to accept and proud to publish . 
He was close to her doors his standing was sufficient his qualities were even supererogatory . 
Boldwood as a means to marriage was unexceptionable she esteemed and liked him , yet she did not want him . 
But the understood incentive on the woman's part was wanting here . 
Besides , Bathsheba's position as absolute mistress of a farm and house was a novel one , and the novelty had not yet begun to wear off . 
But a disquiet filled her which was somewhat to her credit , for it would have affected few . 
She said in the same breath that it would be ungenerous not to marry Boldwood , and that she couldn't do it to save her life . 
Bathsheba's was an impulsive nature under a deliberative aspect . 
An Elizabeth in brain and a Mary Stuart in spirit , she often performed actions of the greatest temerity with a manner of extreme discretion . 
Many of her thoughts were perfect syllogisms unluckily they always remained thoughts . 
Only a few were irrational assumptions but , unfortunately , they were the ones which most frequently grew into deeds . 
The next day to that of the declaration she found Gabriel Oak at the bottom of her garden , grinding his shears for the sheep shearing . 
Cainy Ball turned the handle of Gabriel's grindstone , his head performing a melancholy see saw up and down with each turn of the wheel . 
His mistress came up and looked upon them in silence for a minute or two then she said Cain , go to the lower mead and catch the bay mare . 
I'll turn the winch of the grindstone . 
I want to speak to you , Gabriel . 
Cain departed , and Bathsheba took the handle . 
Gabriel had glanced up in intense surprise , quelled its expression , and looked down again . 
Bathsheba turned the winch , and Gabriel applied the shears . 
The peculiar motion involved in turning a wheel has a wonderful tendency to benumb the mind . 
It is a sort of attenuated variety of Ixion's punishment , and contributes a dismal chapter to the history of goals . 
The brain gets muddled , the head grows heavy , and the body's centre of gravity seems to settle by degrees in a leaden lump somewhere between the eyebrows and the crown . 
Bathsheba felt the unpleasant symptoms after two or three dozen turns . 
Will you turn , Gabriel , and let me hold the shears ? she said . 
My head is in a whirl , and I can't talk . 
Bathsheba then began , with some awkwardness , allowing her thoughts to stray occasionally from her story to attend to the shears , which required a little nicety in sharpening . 
I wanted to ask you if the men made any observations on my going behind the sedge with Mr. Boldwood yesterday ? Yes , they did , said Gabriel . 
You don't hold the shears right , miss I knew you wouldn't know the way hold like this . 
, grasped the shears with her . 
Incline the edge so , he said . 
Hands and shears were inclined to suit the words , and held thus for a peculiarly long time by the instructor as he spoke . 
That will do , exclaimed Bathsheba . 
I won't have them held ! Turn the winch . 
Gabriel freed her hands quietly , retired to his handle , and the grinding went on . 
Did the men think it odd ? she said again . 
Odd was not the idea , miss . 
What did they say ? That Farmer Boldwood's name and your own were likely to be flung over pulpit together before the year was out . 
I thought so by the look of them ! Why , there's nothing in it . 
A more foolish remark was never made , and I want you to contradict it ! that's what I came for . 
Gabriel looked incredulous and sad , but between his moments of incredulity , relieved . 
They must have heard our conversation , she continued . 
Well , then , Bathsheba ! said Oak , stopping the handle , and gazing into her face with astonishment . 
Miss Everdene , you mean , she said , with dignity . 
I mean this , that if Mr. Boldwood really spoke of marriage , I bain't going to tell a story and say he didn't to please you . 
I have already tried to please you too much for my own good ! Bathsheba regarded him with round eyed perplexity . 
She did not know whether to pity him for disappointed love of her , or to be angry with him for having got over it his tone being ambiguous . 
I said I wanted you just to mention that it was not true I was going to be married to him , she murmured , with a slight decline in her assurance . 
I can say that to them if you wish , Miss Everdene . 
And I could likewise give an opinion to 'ee on what you have done . 
But I don't want your opinion . 
With Bathsheba a hastened act was a rash act but , as does not always happen , time gained was prudence insured . 
It must be added , however , that time was very seldom gained . 
At this period the single opinion in the parish on herself and her doings that she valued as sounder than her own was Gabriel Oak's . 
Thoroughly convinced of the impossibility of his own suit , a high resolve constrained him not to injure that of another . 
This is a lover's most stoical virtue , as the lack of it is a lover's most venial sin . 
Knowing he would reply truly she asked the question , painful as she must have known the subject would be . 
Such is the selfishness of some charming women . 
Perhaps it was some excuse for her thus torturing honesty to her own advantage , that she had absolutely no other sound judgment within easy reach . 
Well , what is your opinion of my conduct , she said , quietly . 
That it is unworthy of any thoughtful , and meek , and comely woman . 
In an instant Bathsheba's face coloured with the angry crimson of a danby sunset . 
But she forbore to utter this feeling , and the reticence of her tongue only made the loquacity of her face the more noticeable . 
The next thing Gabriel did was to make a mistake . 
Perhaps you don't like the rudeness of my reprimanding you , for I know it is rudeness but I thought it would do good . 
But , unfortunately , when you try not to speak in jest you are amusing just as when you wish to avoid seriousness you sometimes say a sensible word . 
It was a hard hit , but Bathsheba had unmistakably lost her temper , and on that account Gabriel had never in his life kept his own better . 
I have long given up thinking of that matter . 
Or wishing it , I suppose , she said and it was apparent that she expected an unhesitating denial of this supposition . 
Whatever Gabriel felt , he coolly echoed her words Or wishing it either . 
A woman may be treated with a bitterness which is sweet to her , and with a rudeness which is not offensive . 
This was what she had been expecting , and what she had not got . 
To be lectured because the lecturer saw her in the cold morning light of open shuttered disillusion was exasperating . 
He had not finished , either . 
that you are greatly to blame for playing pranks upon a man like Mr. Boldwood , merely as a pastime . 
Leading on a man you don't care for is not a praiseworthy action . 
Bathsheba laid down the shears . 
I cannot allow any man to to criticise my private Conduct ! she exclaimed . 
Nor will I for a minute . 
Her nether lip quivered now . 
Very well , so I will , said Gabriel calmly . 
He had been held to her by a beautiful thread which it pained him to spoil by breaking , rather than by a chain he could not break . 
I should be even better pleased to go at once , he added . 
Go at once then , in Heaven's name ! said she , her eyes flashing at his , though never meeting them . 
Don't let me see your face any more . 
Very well , Miss Everdene so it shall be . 
And he took his shears and went away from her in placid dignity , as Moses left the presence of Pharaoh . 
Sixty ! said Joseph Poorgrass . 
Fifty nine ! said Susan Tall's husband . 
Sheep have broke fence , said Fray . 
And got into a field of young clover , said Tall . 
Young clover ! said Moon . 
Clover ! said Joseph Poorgrass . 
And they be getting blasted , said Henery Fray . 
That they be , said Joseph . 
And will all die as dead as nits , if they bain't got out and cured ! said Tall . 
Joseph's countenance was drawn into lines and puckers by his concern . 
Fray's forehead was wrinkled both perpendicularly and crosswise , after the pattern of a portcullis , expressive of a double despair . 
Laban Tall's lips were thin , and his face was rigid . 
Matthew's jaws sank , and his eyes turned whichever way the strongest muscle happened to pull them . 
Moreover , she had hardly recovered her equanimity since the disturbance which she had suffered from Oak's remarks . 
That's enough that's enough ! oh , you fools ! she cried , throwing the parasol and Prayer book into the passage , and running out of doors in the direction signified . 
To come to me , and not go and get them out directly ! Oh , the stupid numskulls ! Her eyes were at their darkest and brightest now . 
Having once received the stimulus that her presence always gave them they went round among the sheep with a will . 
The majority of the afflicted animals were lying down , and could not be stirred . 
These were bodily lifted out , and the others driven into the adjoining field . 
Here , after the lapse of a few minutes , several more fell down , and lay helpless and livid as the rest . 
Bathsheba , with a sad , bursting heart , looked at these primest specimens of her prime flock as they rolled there Swoln with wind and the rank mist they drew . 
Many of them foamed at the mouth , their breathing being quick and short , whilst the bodies of all were fearfully distended . 
Oh , what can I do , what can I do ! said Bathsheba , helplessly . 
Sheep are such unfortunate animals ! there's always something happening to them ! I never knew a flock pass a year without getting into some scrape or other . 
There's only one way of saving them , said Tall . 
What way ? Tell me quick ! They must be pierced in the side with a thing made on purpose . 
Can you do it ? Can I ? No , ma'am . 
We can't , nor you neither . 
It must be done in a particular spot . 
If ye go to the right or left but an inch you stab the ewe and kill her . 
Not even a shepherd can do it , as a rule . 
Then they must die , she said , in a resigned tone . 
Only one man in the neighbourhood knows the way , said Joseph , now just come up . 
He could cure 'em all if he were here . 
Who is he ? Let's get him ! Shepherd Oak , said Matthew . 
Ah , he's a clever man in talents ! Ah , that he is so ! said Joseph Poorgrass . 
True he's the man , said Laban Tall . 
How dare you name that man in my presence ! she said excitedly . 
I told you never to allude to him , nor shall you if you stay with me . 
Ah ! she added , brightening , Farmer Boldwood knows ! O no , ma'am said Matthew . 
Two of his store ewes got into some vetches t'other day , and were just like these . 
He sent a man on horseback here post haste for Gable , and Gable went and saved 'em , Farmer Boldwood hev got the thing they do it with . 
'Tis a holler pipe , with a sharp pricker inside . 
Isn't it , Joseph ? Ay a holler pipe , echoed Joseph . 
Ay , sure that's the machine , chimed in Henery Fray , reflectively , with an Oriental indifference to the flight of time . 
In a minute they had vanished through the gate , and she stood alone with the dying flock . 
Never will I send for him never ! she said firmly . 
One of the ewes here contracted its muscles horribly , extended itself , and jumped high into the air . 
The leap was an astonishing one . 
The ewe fell heavily , and lay still . 
Bathsheba went up to it . 
Oh , what shall I do what shall I do ! she again exclaimed , wringing her hands . 
I won't send for him . 
No , I won't ! The most vigorous expression of a resolution does not always coincide with the greatest vigour of the resolution itself . 
It is often flung out as a sort of prop to support a decaying conviction which , whilst strong , required no enunciation to prove it so . 
The No , I won't of Bathsheba meant virtually , I think I must . 
She followed her assistants through the gate , and lifted her hand to one of them . 
Laban answered to her signal . 
Where is Oak staying ? Across the valley at Nest Cottage ! Jump on the bay mare , and ride across , and say he must return instantly that I say so . 
Tall scrambled off to the field , and in two minutes was on Poll , the bay , bare backed , and with only a halter by way of rein . 
He diminished down the hill . 
So did all the rest . 
The cottage to which Gabriel had retired before taking his final departure from the locality was visible as a white spot on the opposite hill , backed by blue firs . 
Bathsheba walked up and down . 
The men entered the field and endeavoured to ease the anguish of the dumb creatures by rubbing them . 
She hoped Tall had had presence of mind enough to give the mare up to Gabriel , and return himself on foot . 
Oh , what folly ! said Bathsheba . 
Gabriel was not visible anywhere . 
Perhaps he is already gone ! she said . 
Tall came into the inclosure , and leapt off , his face tragic as Morton's after the battle of Shrewsbury . 
Well ? said Bathsheba , unwilling to believe that her verbal LETTRE DE CACHET could possibly have miscarried . 
He says BEGGARS MUSTN'T BE CHOOSERS , replied Laban . 
What ! said the young farmer , opening her eyes and drawing in her breath for an outburst . 
Joseph Poorgrass retired a few steps behind a hurdle . 
He says he shall not come unless you request en to come civilly and in a proper manner , as becomes any 'ooman begging a favour . 
The men looked grave , as if they suppressed opinion . 
Bathsheba turned aside , her eyes full of tears . 
The strait she was in through pride and shrewishness could not be disguised longer she burst out crying bitterly they all saw it and she attempted no further concealment . 
I wouldn't cry about it , miss , said William Small bury , compassionately . 
Why not ask him softer like ? I'm sure he'd come then . 
Gable is a true man in that way . 
Bathsheba checked her grief and wiped her eyes . 
Oh , it is a wicked cruelty to me it is it is ! she murmured . 
And he drives me to do what I wouldn't yes , he does ! Tall , come indoors . 
After this collapse , not very dignified for the head of an establishment , she went into the house , Tall at her heels . 
Here she sat down and hastily scribbled a note between the small convulsive sobs of convalescence which follow a fit of crying as a ground swell follows a storm . 
The note was none the less polite for being written in a hurry . 
The note was despatched as the message had been , and Bathsheba waited indoors for the result . 
It was an anxious quarter of an hour that intervened between the messenger's departure and the sound of the horse's tramp again outside . 
The case , however , was a promising one . 
Gabriel was not angry he was simply neutral , although her first command had been so haughty . 
Such imperiousness would have damned a little less beauty and on the other hand , such beauty would have redeemed a little less imperiousness . 
She went out when the horse was heard , and looked up . 
A mounted figure passed between her and the sky , and drew on towards the field of sheep , the rider turning his face in receding . 
It was a moment when a woman's eyes and tongue tell distinctly opposite tales . 
Gabriel murmured a confused reply , and hastened on . 
She knew from the look which sentence in her note had brought him . 
Bathsheba followed to the field . 
Gabriel was already among the turgid , prostrate forms . 
He had flung off his coat , rolled up his shirt sleeves , and taken from his pocket the instrument of salvation . 
It was a small tube or trochar , with a lance passing down the inside and Gabriel began to use it with a dexterity that would have graced a hospital surgeon . 
A current of air rushed up the tube , forcible enough to have extinguished a candle held at the orifice . 
It has been said that mere ease after torment is delight for a time and the countenances of these poor creatures expressed it now . 
Forty nine operations were successfully performed . 
Four had died three recovered without an operation . 
The total number of sheep which had thus strayed and injured themselves so dangerously was fifty seven . 
When the love led man had ceased from his labours , Bathsheba came and looked him in the face . 
I will , said Gabriel . 
And she smiled on him again . 
But this incurable loitering beside Bathsheba Everdene stole his time ruinously . 
The spring tides were going by without floating him off , and the neap might soon come which could not . 
It was the first day of June , and the sheep shearing season culminated , the landscape , even to the leanest pasture , being all health and colour . 
Every green was young , every pore was open , and every stalk was swollen with racing currents of juice . 
God was palpably present in the country , and the devil had gone with the world to town . 
None of these were clothed to any extent worth mentioning , each appearing to have hit in the matter of raiment the decent mean between a high and low caste Hindoo . 
An angularity of lineament , and a fixity of facial machinery in general , proclaimed that serious work was the order of the day . 
They sheared in the great barn , called for the nonce the Shearing barn , which on ground plan resembled a church with transepts . 
It not only emulated the form of the neighbouring church of the parish , but vied with it in antiquity . 
Whether the barn had ever formed one of a group of conventual buildings nobody seemed to be aware no trace of such surroundings remained . 
Unlike and superior to either of those two typical remnants of mediaevalism , the old barn embodied practices which had suffered no mutilation at the hands of time . 
Here at least the spirit of the ancient builders was at one with the spirit of the modern beholder . 
For once medievalism and modernism had a common stand point . 
The defence and salvation of the body by daily bread is still a study , a religion , and a desire . 
Beneath them a captive sheep lay panting , quickening its pants as misgiving merged in terror , till it quivered like the hot landscape outside . 
This picture of to day in its frame of four hundred years ago did not produce that marked contrast between ancient and modern which is implied by the contrast of date . 
In comparison with cities , Weatherbury was immutable . 
The citizen's THEN is the rustic's NOW . 
Five decades hardly modified the cut of a gaiter , the embroidery of a smock frock , by the breadth of a hair . 
Ten generations failed to alter the turn of a single phrase . 
In these Wessex nooks the busy outsider's ancient times are only old his old times are still new his present is futurity . 
So the barn was natural to the shearers , and the shearers were in harmony with the barn . 
They were indifferently well assisted by the old maltster , who , when the malting season from October to April had passed , made himself useful upon any of the bordering farmsteads . 
Behind all was Bathsheba , carefully watching the men to see that there was no cutting or wounding through carelessness , and that the animals were shorn close . 
At the present moment he was engaged in handing round a mug of mild liquor , supplied from a barrel in the corner , and cut pieces of bread and cheese . 
He lopped off the tresses about its head , and opened up the neck and collar , his mistress quietly looking on . 
Like Guildenstern , Oak was happy in that he was not over happy . 
He had no wish to converse with her that his bright lady and himself formed one group , exclusively their own , and containing no others in the world , was enough . 
So the chatter was all on her side . 
There is a loquacity that tells nothing , which was Bathsheba's and there is a silence which says much that was Gabriel's . 
Well done , and done quickly ! said Bathsheba , looking at her watch as the last snip resounded . 
How long , miss ? said Gabriel , wiping his brow . 
Three and twenty minutes and a half since you took the first lock from its forehead . 
It is the first time that I have ever seen one done in less than half an hour . 
Cain Ball ! Yes , Mister Oak here I be ! Cainy now runs forward with the tar pot . 
B. E. is newly stamped upon the shorn skin , and away the simple dam leaps , panting , over the board into the shirtless flock outside . 
But heartless circumstance could not leave entire Gabriel's happiness of this morning . 
Nobody seemed to have perceived his entry , but there he certainly was . 
He crossed over towards Bathsheba , who turned to greet him with a carriage of perfect ease . 
He spoke to her in low tones , and she instinctively modulated her own to the same pitch , and her voice ultimately even caught the inflection of his . 
What they conversed about was not audible to Gabriel , who was too independent to get near , though too concerned to disregard . 
The issue of their dialogue was the taking of her hand by the courteous farmer to help her over the spreading board into the bright June sunlight outside . 
Standing beside the sheep already shorn , they went on talking again . 
Concerning the flock ? Apparently not . 
Gabriel theorized , not without truth , that in quiet discussion of any matter within reach of the speakers' eyes , these are usually fixed upon it . 
Bathsheba demurely regarded a contemptible straw lying upon the ground , in a way which suggested less ovine criticism than womanly embarrassment . 
She became more or less red in the cheek , the blood wavering in uncertain flux and reflux over the sensitive space between ebb and flood . 
Gabriel sheared on , constrained and sad . 
She left Boldwood's side , and he walked up and down alone for nearly a quarter of an hour . 
Oak's eyes could not forsake them and in endeavouring to continue his shearing at the same time that he watched Boldwood's manner , he snipped the sheep in the groin . 
The animal plunged Bathsheba instantly gazed towards it , and saw the blood . 
But a manly resolve to recognize boldly that he had no longer a lover's interest in her , helped him occasionally to conceal a feeling . 
Bottle ! he shouted , in an unmoved voice of routine . 
Cainy Ball ran up , the wound was anointed , and the shearing continued . 
Boldwood gently tossed Bathsheba into the saddle , and before they turned away she again spoke out to Oak with the same dominative and tantalizing graciousness . 
I am going now to see Mr. Boldwood's Leicesters . 
Take my place in the barn , Gabriel , and keep the men carefully to their work . 
The horses' heads were put about , and they trotted away . 
John Long's death by consumption in the midst of his proofs that it was not a fatal disease . 
That means matrimony , said Temperance Miller , following them out of sight with her eyes . 
I reckon that's the size o't , said Coggan , working along without looking up . 
Well , better wed over the mixen than over the moor , said Laban Tall , turning his sheep . 
But let it be , for 'tis a pity he and she should trouble two houses . 
As usual with decided characters , Bathsheba invariably provoked the criticism of individuals like Henery Fray . 
Her emblazoned fault was to be too pronounced in her objections , and not sufficiently overt in her likings . 
That wasn't too strong for her , say ? Passably well put . 
Yes and I would have said it , had death and salvation overtook me for it . 
Such is my spirit when I have a mind . 
A true man , and proud as a lucifer . 
That was my depth ! . 
However , let her marry an she will . 
I believe Farmer Boldwood kissed her behind the spear bed at the sheep washing t'other day that I do . 
What a lie ! said Gabriel . 
Ah , neighbour Oak how'st know ? said , Henery , mildly . 
Because she told me all that passed , said Oak , with a pharisaical sense that he was not as other shearers in this matter . 
Ye have a right to believe it , said Henery , with dudgeon a very true right . 
But I mid see a little distance into things ! To be long headed enough for a baily's place is a poor mere trifle yet a trifle more than nothing . 
However , I look round upon life quite cool . 
Do you heed me , neighbours ? My words , though made as simple as I can , mid be rather deep for some heads . 
O yes , Henery , we quite heed ye . 
A strange old piece , goodmen whirled about from here to yonder , as if I were nothing ! A little warped , too . 
But I have my depths ha , and even my great depths ! I might gird at a certain shepherd , brain to brain . 
But no O no ! A strange old piece , ye say ! interposed the maltster , in a querulous voice . 
At the same time ye be no old man worth naming no old man at all . 
It was the unvaying custom in Weatherbury to sink minor differences when the maltster had to be pacified . 
Weak as water ! yes , said Jan Coggan . 
Malter , we feel ye to be a wonderful veteran man , and nobody can gainsay it . 
Nobody , said Joseph Poorgrass . 
Ye be a very rare old spectacle , malter , and we all admire ye for that gift . 
Ay , and as a young man , when my senses were in prosperity , I was likewise liked by a good few who knowed me , said the maltster . 
'Ithout doubt you was 'ithout doubt . 
The bent and hoary 'man was satisfied , and so apparently was Henery Frag . 
A perfect one I don't expect to at my time of life . 
If I could hear of such a thing twould do me more good than toast and ale . 
Coggan furnished a suitable reply . 
Oak went on with his shearing , and said not another word . 
Pestilent moods had come , and teased away his quiet . 
Bathsheba had shown indications of anointing him above his fellows by installing him as the bailiff that the farm imperatively required . 
He did not covet the post relatively to the farm in relation to herself , as beloved by him and unmarried to another , he had coveted it . 
His readings of her seemed now to be vapoury and indistinct . 
His lecture to her was , he thought , one of the absurdest mistakes . 
Far from coquetting with Boldwood , she had trifled with himself in thus feigning that she had trifled with another . 
He was inwardly convinced that , in accordance with the anticipations of his easy going and worse educated comrades , that day would see Boldwood the accepted husband of Miss Everdene . 
He adored Bathsheba just the same . 
We workfolk shall have some lordly junketing to night , said Cainy Ball , casting forth his thoughts in a new direction . 
And there was a great black crock upon the brandish with his legs a sticking out , but I don't know what was in within . 
And there's two bushels of biffins for apple pies , said Maryann . 
Well , I hope to do my duty by it all , said Joseph Poorgrass , in a pleasant , masticating manner of anticipation . 
Yes victuals and drink is a cheerful thing , and gives nerves to the nerveless , if the form of words may be used . 
'Tis the gospel of the body , without which we perish , so to speak it . 
Miss Everdene sat inside the window , facing down the table . 
She was thus at the head without mingling with the men . 
This evening Bathsheba was unusually excited , her red cheeks and lips contrasting lustrously with the mazy skeins of her shadowy hair . 
She seemed to expect assistance , and the seat at the bottom of the table was at her request left vacant until after they had begun the meal . 
She then asked Gabriel to take the place and the duties appertaining to that end , which he did with great readiness . 
At this moment Mr. Boldwood came in at the gate , and crossed the green to Bathsheba at the window . 
He apologized for his lateness his arrival was evidently by arrangement . 
Gabriel , said she , will you move again , please , and let Mr. Boldwood come there ? Oak moved in silence back to his original seat . 
The gentleman farmer was dressed in cheerful style , in a new coat and white waistcoat , quite contrasting with his usual sober suits of grey . 
Inwardy , too , he was blithe , and consequently chatty to an exceptional degree . 
So also was Bathsheba now that he had come , though the uninvited presence of Pennyways , the bailiff who had been dismissed for theft , disturbed her equanimity for a while . 
Now , Master Poorgrass , your song ! said Coggan . 
I be all but in liquor , and the gift is wanting in me , said Joseph , diminishing himself . 
Nonsense wou'st never be so ungrateful , Joseph never ! said Coggan , expressing hurt feelings by an inflection of voice . 
And mistress is looking hard at ye , as much as to say , Sing at once , Joseph Poorgrass . 
Faith , so she is well , I must suffer it ! . 
Just eye my features , and see if the tell tale blood overheats me much , neighbours ? No , yer blushes be quite reasonable , said Coggan . 
I always tries to keep my colours from rising when a beauty's eyes get fixed on me , said Joseph , differently but if so be 'tis willed they do , they must . 
Now , Joseph , your song , please , said Bathsheba , from the window . 
Well , really , ma'am , he replied , in a yielding tone , I don't know what to say . 
It would be a poor plain ballet of my own composure . 
Hear , hear ! said the supper party . 
This was so successful that he rashly plunged into a second in the same breath , after a few false starts I sow' ed th' e . 
Well put out of hand , said Coggan , at the end of the verse . 
'They do sing' was a very taking paragraph . 
Ay and there was a pretty place at seeds of love . 
and 'twas well heaved out . 
Though love is a nasty high corner when a man's voice is getting crazed . 
Next verse , Master Poorgrass . 
Joseph perceived it , and with hectic cheeks of indignation instantly ceased singing . 
Coggan boxed Bob's ears immediately . 
Go on , Joseph go on , and never mind the young scamp , said Coggan . 
'Tis a very catching ballet . 
But the singer could not be set going again . 
The sun went down in an ochreous mist but they sat , and talked on , and grew as merry as the gods in Homer's heaven . 
Bathsheba still remained enthroned inside the window , and occupied herself in knitting , from which she sometimes looked up to view the fading scene outside . 
The slow twilight expanded and enveloped them completely before the signs of moving were shown . 
Gabriel suddenly missed Farmer Boldwood from his place at the bottom of the table . 
How long he had been gone Oak did not know but he had apparently withdrawn into the encircling dusk . 
Next came the question of the evening . 
Have you brought your flute ? she whispered . 
Play to my singing , then . 
She stood up in the window opening , facing the men , the candles behind her , Gabriel on her right hand , immediately outside the sash frame . 
Boldwood had drawn up on her left , within the room . 
Her singing was soft and rather tremulous at first , but it soon swelled to a steady clearness . 
It is scarcely necessary to state that Gabriel could not avoid noting the farmer's bearing to night towards their entertainer . 
Yet there was nothing exceptional in his actions beyond what appertained to his time of performing them . 
Oak wandered away under the quiet and scented trees . 
I'm sure I don't deserve half the praise you give me , said the virtuous thief , grimly . 
Yes , I'm proud to say . 
neighbours , that he's stole nothing at all . 
Well , 'tis an honest deed , and we thank ye for it , Pennyways , said Joseph to which opinion the remainder of the company subscribed unanimously . 
Miss Everdene and Boldwood were alone . 
His body moved restlessly , and it was with what Keats daintily calls a too happy happiness . 
I will try to love you , she was saying , in a trembling voice quite unlike her usual self confidence . 
And if I can believe in any way that I shall make you a good wife I shall indeed be willing to marry you . 
But , Mr. Boldwood , hesitation on so high a matter is honourable in any woman , and I don't want to give a solemn promise to night . 
I would rather ask you to wait a few weeks till I can see my situation better . 
But remember this distinctly , I don't promise yet . 
It is enough I don't ask more . 
I can wait on those dear words . 
And now , Miss Everdene , good night ! Good night , she said , graciously almost tenderly and Boldwood withdrew with a serene smile . 
She had been awe struck at her past temerity , and was struggling to make amends without thinking whether the sin quite deserved the penalty she was schooling herself to pay . 
To have brought all this about her ears was terrible but after a while the situation was not without a fearful joy . 
The facility with which even the most timid woman sometimes acquire a relish for the dreadful when that is amalgamated with a little triumph , is marvellous . 
Women are never tired of bewailing man's fickleness in love , but they only seem to snub his constancy . 
This night the buildings were inspected as usual , and she went round to the farm paddock . 
the respectable dairy of Devon cows belonging to Bathsheba aforesaid . 
Her way back to the house was by a path through a young plantation of tapering firs , which had been planted some years earlier to shelter the premises from the north wind . 
Slipping along here covertly as Time , Bathsheba fancied she could hear footsteps entering the track at the opposite end . 
It was certainly a rustle of footsteps . 
Her own instantly fell as gently as snowflakes . 
The noise approached , came close , and a figure was apparently on the point of gliding past her when something tugged at her skirt and pinned it forcibly to the ground . 
The instantaneous check nearly threw Bathsheba off her balance . 
In recovering she struck against warm clothes and buttons . 
A rum start , upon my soul ! said a masculine voice , a foot or so above her head . 
Have I hurt you , mate ? No , said Bathsheba , attempting to shrink a way . 
We have got hitched together somehow , I think . 
Are you a woman ? Yes . 
A lady , I should have said . 
Oh ! Bathsheba softly tugged again , but to no purpose . 
Is that a dark lantern you have ? I fancy so , said the man . 
If you'll allow me I'll open it , and set you free . 
A hand seized the lantern , the door was opened , the rays burst out from their prison , and Bathsheba beheld her position with astonishment . 
The man to whom she was hooked was brilliant in brass and scarlet . 
His sudden appearance was to darkness what the sound of a trumpet is to silense . 
Gloom , the genius loci at all times hitherto , was now totally overthrown , less by the lantern light than by what the lantern lighted . 
The contrast of this revelation with her anticipations of some sinister figure in sombre garb was so great that it had upon her the effect of a fairy transformation . 
It was immediately apparent that the military man's spur had become entangled in the gimp which decorated the skirt of her dress . 
He caught a view of her face . 
I'll unfasten you in one moment , miss , he said , with new born gallantry . 
Oh no I can do it , thank you , she hastily replied , and stooped for the performance . 
The unfastening was not such a trifling affair . 
The rowel of the spur had so wound itself among the gimp cords in those few moments , that separation was likely to be a matter of time . 
He looked hard into her eyes when she raised them for a moment Bathsheba looked down again , for his gaze was too strong to be received point blank with her own . 
But she had obliquely noticed that he was young and slim , and that he wore three chevrons upon his sleeve . 
You are a prisoner , miss it is no use blinking the matter , said the soldier , drily . 
I must cut your dress if you are in such a hurry . 
Yes please do ! she exclaimed , helplessly . 
It wouldn't be necessary if you could wait a moment , and he unwound a cord from the little wheel . 
She withdrew her own hand , but , whether by accident or design , he touched it . 
Bathsheba was vexed she hardly knew why . 
His unravelling went on , but it nevertheless seemed coming to no end . 
She looked at him again . 
Thank you for the sight of such a beautiful face ! said the young sergeant , without ceremony . 
'Twas un willingly shown , she replied , stiffly , and with as much dignity which was very little as she could infuse into a position of captivity . 
I like you the better for that incivility , miss , he said . 
I deserve the chastisement your words give me . 
But why should such a fair and dutiful girl have such an aversion to her father's sex ? Go on your way , please . 
I tell you you have ! she exclaimed , in high temper . 
I insist upon undoing it . 
Now , allow me ! Certainly , miss I am not of steel . 
He added a sigh which had as much archness in it as a sigh could possess without losing its nature altogether . 
I am thankful for beauty , even when 'tis thrown to me like a bone to a dog . 
These moments will be over too soon ! She closed her lips in a determined silence . 
Bathsheba was revolving in her mind whether by a bold and desperate rush she could free herself at the risk of leaving her skirt bodily behind her . 
The thought was too dreadful . 
The dress which she had put on to appear stately at the supper was the head and front of her wardrobe not another in her stock became her so well . 
Bathsheba really knew not what to say . 
Take it or leave it be offended or like it I don't care . 
Who are you , then , who can so well afford to despise opinion ? No stranger . 
I am staying in this place . 
There ! it is undone at last , you see . 
Your light fingers were more eager than mine . 
I wish it had been the knot of knots , which there's no untying ! This was worse and worse . 
She started up , and so did he . 
How to decently get away from him that was her difficulty now . 
She sidled off inch by inch , the lantern in her hand , till she could see the redness of his coat no longer . 
Ah , Beauty good bye ! he said . 
She made no reply , and , reaching a distance of twenty or thirty yards , turned about , and ran indoors . 
Liddy had just retired to rest . 
No , I say but really it might be Sergeant Troy home on furlough , though I have not seen him . 
He was here once in that way when the regiment was at Casterbridge . 
Had he a moustache no whiskers or beard ? He had . 
Fancy ! Is it true ? Yes . 
And , he was brought up so well , and sent to Casterbridge Grammar School for years and years . 
However , he wasted his gifted lot , and listed a soldier but even then he rose to be a sergeant without trying at all . 
Ah ! such a blessing it is to be high born nobility of blood will shine out even in the ranks and files . 
And is he really come home , miss ? I believe so . 
When they want to be praised , which is often , when they want to be mastered , which is sometimes and when they want no nonsense , which is seldom . 
Just now the first feeling was in the ascendant with Bathsheba , with a dash of the second . 
Moreover , by chance or by devilry , the ministrant was antecedently made interesting by being a handsome stranger who had evidently seen better days . 
So she could not clearly decide whether it was her opinion that he had insulted her or not . 
Was ever anything so odd ! she at last exclaimed to herself , in her own room . 
It was a fatal omission of Boldwood's that he had never once told her she was beautiful . 
CHAPTER XXV THE NEW ACQUAINTANCE DESCRIBED IDIOSYNCRASY and vicissitude had combined to stamp Sergeant Troy as an exceptional being . 
He was a man to whom memories were an incumbrance , and anticipations a superfluity . 
Simply feeling , considering , and caring for what was before his eyes , he was vulnerable only in the present . 
With him the past was yesterday the future , to morrow never , the day after . 
On this account he might , in certain lights , have been regarded as one of the most fortunate of his order . 
Sergeant Troy , being entirely innocent of the practice of expectation , was never disappointed . 
To set against this negative gain there may have been some positive losses from a certain narrowing of the higher tastes and sensations which it entailed . 
This treatment had led to his becoming a sort of regrater of other men's gallantries , to his own aggrandizement as a Corinthian , rather than to the moral profit of his hearers . 
The sergeant's vicious phases being the offspring of impulse , and his virtuous phases of cool meditation , the latter had a modest tendency to be oftener heard of than seen . 
Hence , whilst he sometimes reached the brilliant in speech because that was spontaneous , he fell below the commonplace in action , from inability to guide incipient effort . 
He was a fairly well educated man for one of middle class exceptionally well educated for a common soldier . 
He spoke fluently and unceasingly . 
Still less is it acted upon for the good of the complemental being alluded to . 
With the majority such an opinion is shelved with all those trite aphorisms which require some catastrophe to bring their tremendous meanings thoroughly home . 
When expressed with some amount of reflectiveness it seems co ordinate with a belief that this flattery must be reasonable to be effective . 
And some profess to have attained to the same knowledge by experiment as aforesaid , and jauntily continue their indulgence in such experiments with terrible effect . 
He had been known to observe casually that in dealing with womankind the only alternative to flattery was cursing and swearing . 
There was no third method . 
Treat them fairly , and you are a lost man . 
This person's public appearance in Weatherbury promptly followed his arrival there . 
A week or two after the shearing Bathsheba , feeling a nameless relief of spirits on account of Boldwood's absence , approached her hayfields and looked over the hedge towards the haymakers . 
In the first mead they were already loading hay , the women raking it into cocks and windrows , and the men tossing it upon the waggon . 
From behind the waggon a bright scarlet spot emerged , and went on loading unconcernedly with the rest . 
As soon as she had entered the field Troy saw her , and sticking his pitchfork into the ground and picking up his crop or cane , he came forward . 
Bathsheba blushed with half angry embarrassment , and adjusted her eyes as well as her feet to the direct line of her path . 
CHAPTER XXVI SCENE ON THE VERGE OF THE HAY MEAD AH , Miss Everdene ! said the sergeant , touching his diminutive cap . 
Little did I think it was you I was speaking to the other night . 
, the Queen of the Corn market . 
I say , could be no other woman . 
I step across now to beg your forgiveness a thousand times for having been led by my feelings to express myself too strongly for a stranger . 
I have been doing the same for you today . 
I suppose I must thank you for that , Sergeant Troy , said the Queen of the Corn market , in an indifferently grateful tone . 
The sergeant looked hurt and sad . 
Indeed you must not , Miss Everdene , he said . 
Why could you think such a thing necessary ? I am glad it is not . 
Why ? if I may ask without offence . 
Because I don't much want to thank you for anything . 
I am afraid I have made a hole with my tongue that my heart will never mend . 
There is some talk I could do without more easily than money . 
That remark is a sort of digression . 
No. It means that I would rather have your room than your company . 
And I would rather have curses from you than kisses from any other woman so I'll stay here . 
And yet she could not help feeling that the assistance he was rendering forbade a harsh repulse . 
Well , continued Troy , I suppose there is a praise which is rudeness , and that may be mine . 
At the same time there is a treatment which is injustice , and that may be yours . 
Because a plain blunt man , who has never been taught concealment , speaks out his mind without exactly intending it , he's to be snapped off like the son of a sinner . 
Indeed there's no such case between us , she said , turning away . 
I don't allow strangers to be bold and impudent even in praise of me . 
Ah it is not the fact but the method which offends you , he said , carelessly . 
But I have the sad satisfaction of knowing that my words , whether pleasing or offensive , are unmistakably true . 
It is all pretence what you are saying ! exclaimed Bathsheba , laughing in spite of herself at the sly method . 
You have a rare invention , Sergeant Troy . 
Why couldn't you have passed by me that night , and said nothing ? that was all I meant to reproach you for . 
Because I wasn't going to . 
Half the pleasure of a feeling lies in being able to express it on the spur of the moment , and I let out mine . 
It would have been just the same if you had been the reverse person ugly and old I should have exclaimed about it in the same way . 
How long is it since you have been so afflicted with strong feeling , then ? Oh , ever since I was big enough to know loveliness from deformity . 
'Tis to be hoped your sense of the difference you speak of doesn't stop at faces , but extends to morals as well . 
I won't speak of morals or religion my own or anybody else's . 
Though perhaps I should have been a very good Christian if you pretty women hadn't made me an idolater . 
Bathsheba moved on to hide the irrepressible dimplings of merriment . 
Troy followed , whirling his crop . 
But Miss Everdene you do forgive me ? Hardly . 
Why ? You say such things . 
I again say you are a most fascinating woman . 
There's nothing remarkable in my saying so , is there ? I'm sure the fact is evident enough . 
Not so to you then I say with all respect that , if so , it is owing to your modesty , Miss Everdene . 
But surely you must have been told by everybody of what everybody notices ? and you should take their words for it . 
They don't say so exactly . 
But you know they think so ? No that is I certainly have heard Liddy say they do , but She paused . 
Capitulation that was the purport of the simple reply , guarded as it was capitulation , unknown to her self . 
Never did a fragile tailless sentence convey a more perfect meaning . 
The careless sergeant smiled within himself , and probably too the devil smiled from a loop hole in Tophet , for the moment was the turning point of a career . 
Her tone and mien signified beyond mistake that the seed which was to lift the foundation had taken root in the chink the remainder was a mere question of time and natural changes . 
There the truth comes out ! said the soldier , in reply . 
Never tell me that a young lady can live in a buzz of admiration without knowing something about it . 
Ah , well , Miss Everdene , you are pardon my blunt way you are rather an injury to our race than other wise . 
How indeed ? she said , opening her eyes . 
Oh , it is true enough . 
, and so I will speak my mind , regardless of your pleasure , and without hoping or intending to get your pardon . 
Why , Miss Everdene , it is in this manner that your good looks may do more harm than good in the world . 
The sergeant looked down the mead in critical abstracion . 
Probably some one man on an average falls in love , with each ordinary woman . 
She can marry him he is content , and leads a useful life . 
Such women as you a hundred men always covet your eyes will bewitch scores on scores into an unavailing fancy for you you can only marry one of that many . 
Men are such constant fools ! The rest may try to get over their passion with more or less success . 
But all these men will be saddened . 
And not only those ninety nine men , but the ninety nine women they might have married are saddened with them . 
That's why I say that a woman so charming as yourself , Miss Everdene , is hardly a blessing to her race . 
The handsome sergeant's features were during this speech as rigid and stern as John Knox's in addressing his gay young queen . 
Seeing she made no reply , he said , Do you read French ? No I began , but when I got to the verbs , father died , she said simply . 
and there's a proverb they have , QUI AIME BIEN CHATIE BIEN He chastens who loves well . 
Don't , however , suppose that I derive any pleasure from what you tell me . 
I would not own it to anybody else nor do I exactly to you . 
Still , there might have been some self conceit in my foolish supposition the other night . 
And I thank you for giving help here . 
But but mind you don't speak to me again in that way , or in any other , unless I speak to you . 
Oh , Miss Bathsheba ! That is too hard ! No , it isn't . 
Why is it ? You will never speak to me for I shall not be here long . 
I am soon going back again to the miserable monotony of drill and perhaps our regiment will be ordered out soon . 
And yet you take away the one little ewe lamb of pleasure that I have in this dull life of mine . 
Well , perhaps generosity is not a woman's most marked characteristic . 
When are you going from here ? she asked , with some interest . 
But you can't really care for a word from me ? you only say so I think you only say so . 
That's unjust but I won't repeat the remark . 
I am too gratified to get such a mark of your friendship at any price to cavil at the tone . 
I DO Miss Everdene , care for it . 
You may think a man foolish to want a mere word just a good morning . 
Perhaps he is I don't know . 
But you have never been a man looking upon a woman , and that woman yourself . 
Then you know nothing of what such an experience is like and Heaven forbid that you ever should ! Nonsense , flatterer ! What is it like ? I am interested in knowing . 
Put shortly , it is not being able to think , hear , or look in any direction except one without wretchedness , nor there without torture . 
Ah , sergeant , it won't do you are pretending ! she said , shaking her head . 
Your words are too dashing to be true . 
I am not , upon the honour of a soldier But WHY is it so ? Of course I ask for mere pastime . 
Because you are so distracting and I am so distracted . 
Why , you only saw me the other night ! That makes no difference . 
I loved you then , at once as I do now . 
Bathsheba surveyed him curiously , from the feet upward , as high as she liked to venture her glance , which was not quite so high as his eyes . 
You cannot and you don t , she said demurely . 
There is no such sudden feeling in people . 
I won't listen to you any longer . 
Hear me , I wish I knew what o'clock it is I am going I have wasted too much time here already ! The sergeant looked at his watch and told her . 
What , haven't you a watch , miss ? he inquired . 
I have not just at present I am about to get a new one . 
No. You shall be given one . 
A gift , Miss Everdene a gift . 
And before she knew what the young man was intending , a heavy gold watch was in her hand . 
It is an unusually good one for a man like me to possess , he quietly said . 
That watch has a history . 
Press the spring and open the back . 
What do you see ? A crest and a motto . 
A coronet with five points , and beneath , CEDIT AMOR REBUS Love yields to circumstance . 
It's the motto of the Earls of Severn . 
It was all the fortune that ever I inherited . 
That watch has regulated imperial interests in its time the stately ceremonial , the courtly assignation , pompous travels , and lordly sleeps . 
But , Sergeant Troy , I cannot take this I cannot ! she exclaimed , with round eyed wonder . 
A gold watch ! What are you doing ? Don't be such a dissembler ! The sergeant retreated to avoid receiving back his gift , which she held out persistently towards him . 
Bathsheba followed as he retired . 
Keep it do , Miss Everdene keep it ! said the erratic child of impulse . 
The fact of your possessing it makes it worth ten times as much to me . 
A more plebeian one will answer my purpose just as well , and the pleasure of knowing whose heart my old one beats against well , I won't speak of that . 
It is in far worthier hands than ever it has been in before . 
But indeed I can't have it ! she said , in a perfect simmer of distress . 
That's how I can do it , said the sergeant , with an intonation of such exquisite fidelity to nature that it was evidently not all acted now . 
Please , do take it Oh , do ! I cannot and will not have it . 
Believe me , your generosity is too great . 
He said mechanically , Ah , why ? and continued to look at her . 
And my workfolk see me following you about the field , and are wondering . 
Oh , this is dreadful ! she went on , unconscious of the transmutation she was effecting . 
Without any shamming , come ! Don't deny me the happiness of wearing it for my sake ? But you are too lovely even to care to be kind as others are . 
No , no don't say so ! I have reasons for reserve which I cannot explain . 
Let it be , then , let it be , he said , receiving back the watch at last I must be leaving you now . 
And will you speak to me for these few weeks of my stay ? Indeed I will . 
Yet , I don't know if I will ! Oh , why did you come and disturb me so ! Perhaps in setting a gin , I have caught myself . 
Well , will you let me work in your fields ? he coaxed . 
Yes , I suppose so if it is any pleasure to you . 
Miss Everdene , I thank you . 
Good bye ! The sergeant brought his hand to the cap on the slope of his head , saluted , and returned to the distant group of haymakers . 
Bathsheba could not face the haymakers now . 
Not only were they late this year , but unruly . 
This was the case at present . 
Bathsheba's eyes , shaded by one hand , were following the ascending multitude against the unexplorable stretch of blue till they ultimately halted by one of the unwieldy trees spoken of . 
A process somewhat analogous to that of alleged formations of the universe , time and times ago , was observable . 
At once she heard , not ten yards off , a voice that was beginning to have a strange power in agitating her . 
Miss Everdene , let me assist you you should not attempt such a thing alone . 
Troy was just opening the garden gate . 
By the time she reached the bottom Troy was there also , and he stooped to pick up the hive . 
How fortunate I am to have dropped in at this moment ! exclaimed the sergeant . 
She found her voice in a minute . 
Will I ! said Troy . 
Why , of course I will . 
How blooming you are to day ! Troy flung down his cane and put his foot on the ladder to ascend . 
But you must have on the veil and gloves , or you'll be stung fearfully ! Ah , yes . 
I must put on the veil and gloves . 
The broad brimmed hat , too , by all means . 
So a whimsical fate ordered that her hat should be taken off veil and all attached and placed upon his head , Troy tossing his own into a gooseberry bush . 
Then the veil had to be tied at its lower edge round his collar and the gloves put on him . 
He looked such an extraordinary object in this guise that , flurried as she was , she could not avoid laughing outright . 
It was the removal of yet another stake from the palisade of cold manners which had kept him off . 
Bathsheba looked on from the ground whilst he was busy sweeping and shaking the bees from the tree , holding up the hive with the other hand for them to fall into . 
She made use of an unobserved minute whilst his attention was absorbed in the operation to arrange her plumes a little . 
He came down holding the hive at arm's length , behind which trailed a cloud of bees . 
Upon my life , said Troy , through the veil , holding up this hive makes one's arm ache worse than a week of sword exercise . 
When the manoeuvre was complete he approached her . 
Would you be good enough to untie me and let me out ? I am nearly stifled inside this silk cage . 
To hide her embarrassment during the unwonted process of untying the string about his neck , she said I have never seen that you spoke of . 
What ? The sword exercise . 
Ah ! would you like to ? said Troy . 
So she said mildly what she felt strongly . 
Yes I should like to see it very much . 
And so you shall you shall see me go through it . 
No ! How ? Let me consider . 
Not with a walking stick I don't care to see that . 
It must be a real sword . 
Yes , I know and I have no sword here but I think I could get one by the evening . 
Now , will you do this ? Troy bent over her and murmured some suggestion in a low voice . 
Oh no , indeed ! said Bathsheba , blushing . 
Thank you very much , but I couldn't on any account . 
Surely you might ? Nobody would know . 
She shook her head , but with a weakened negation . 
If I were to , she said , I must bring Liddy too . 
Might I not ? Troy looked far away . 
I don't see why you want to bring her , he said coldly . 
An unconscious look of assent in Bathsheba's eyes betrayed that something more than his coldness had made her also feel that Liddy Would be superfluous in the suggested scene . 
She had felt it , even whilst making the proposal . 
Well , I won't bring Liddy and I'll come . 
But only for a very short time , she added a very short time . 
It will not take five minutes , said Troy . 
She saw a dim spot of artificial red moving round the shoulder of the rise . 
It disappeared on the other side . 
She was now literally trembling and panting at this her temerity in such an errant undertaking her breath came and went quickly , and her eyes shone with an in frequent light . 
She reached the verge of a pit in the middle of the ferns . 
Troy stood in the bottom , looking up towards her . 
I heard you rustling through the fern before I saw you , he said , coming up and giving her his hand to help her down the slope . 
The pit was a saucer shaped concave , naturally formed , with a top diameter of about thirty feet , and shallow enough to allow the sunshine to reach their heads . 
Standing in the centre , the sky overhead was met by a circular horizon of fern this grew nearly to the bottom of the slope and then abruptly ceased . 
The middle within the belt of verdure was floored with a thick flossy carpet of moss and grass intermingled , so yielding that the foot was half buried within it . 
Infantry cuts and guards are more interesting than ours , to my mind but they are not so swashing . 
They have seven cuts and three thrusts . 
So much as a preliminary . 
Well , next , our cut one is as if you were sowing your corn so . 
Bathsheba saw a sort of rainbow , upside down in the air , and Troy's arm was still again . 
Cut two , as if you were hedging so . 
Three , as if you were reaping so . 
Four , as if you were threshing in that way . 
Then the same on the left . 
The thrusts are these one , two , three , four , right one , two , three , four , left . 
Have 'em again ? he said . 
One , two She hurriedly interrupted I'd rather not though I don't mind your twos and fours but your ones and threes are terrible ! Very well . 
I'll let you off the ones and threes . 
Next , cuts , points and guards altogether , Troy duly exhibited them . 
Then there's pursuing practice , in this way . 
He gave the movements as before . 
There , those are the stereotyped forms . 
The infantry have two most diabolical upward cuts , which we are too humane to use . 
Like this three , four . 
How murderous and bloodthirsty ! They are rather deathy . 
You are my antagonist , with this difference from real warfare , that I shall miss you every time by one hair's breadth , or perhaps two . 
Mind you don't flinch , whatever you do . 
I'll be sure not to ! she said invincibly . 
He pointed to about a yard in front of him . 
Bathsheba's adventurous spirit was beginning to find some grains of relish in these highly novel proceedings . 
She took up her position as directed , facing Troy . 
Now just to learn whether you have pluck enough to let me do what I wish , I'll give you a preliminary test . 
All was as quick as electricity . 
Oh ! she cried out in affright , pressing her hand to her side . 
Have you run me through ? no , you have not ! Whatever have you done ! I have not touched you , said Troy , quietly . 
It was mere sleight of hand . 
The sword passed behind you . 
Now you are not afraid , are you ? Because if you are l can't perform . 
I give my word that l will not only not hurt you , but not once touch you . 
I don't think I am afraid . 
You are quite sure you will not hurt me ? Quite sure . 
Is the Sword very sharp ? O no only stand as still as a statue . 
Now ! In an instant the atmosphere was transformed to Bathsheba's eyes . 
These circling gleams were accompanied by a keen rush that was almost a whistling also springing from all sides of her at once . 
In short , she was enclosed in a firmament of light , and of sharp hisses , resembling a sky full of meteors close at hand . 
Next , his movements lapsed slower , and she could see them individually . 
The hissing of the sword had ceased , and he stopped entirely . 
That outer loose lock of hair wants tidying , he said , before she had moved or spoken . 
Wait I'll do it for you . 
An arc of silver shone on her right side the sword had descended . 
The lock droped to the ground . 
Bravely borne ! said Troy . 
You didn't flinch a shade's thickness . 
Wonderful in a woman ! It was because I didn't expect it . 
Oh , you have spoilt my hair ! Only once more . 
No no ! I am afraid of you indeed I am ! she cried . 
I won't touch you at all not even your hair . 
I am only going to kill that caterpillar settling on you . 
Now still ! It appeared that a caterpillar had come from the fern and chosen the front of her bodice as his resting place . 
She saw the point glisten towards her bosom , and seemingly enter it . 
Bathsheba closed her eyes in the full persuasion that she was killed at last . 
However , feeling just as usual , she opened them again . 
There it is , look , said the sargeant , holding his sword before her eyes . 
The caterpillar was spitted upon its point . 
Why , it is magic ! said Bathsheba , amazed . 
I merely gave point to your bosom where the caterpillar was , and instead of running you through checked the extension a thousandth of an inch short of your surface . 
But how could you chop off a curl of my hair with a sword that has no edge ? No edge ! This sword will shave like a razor . 
He touched the palm of his hand with the blade , and then , lifting it , showed her a thin shaving of scarf skin dangling therefrom . 
But you said before beginning that it was blunt and couldn't cut me ! That was to get you to stand still , and so make sure of your safety . 
The risk of injuring you through your moving was too great not to force me to tell you a fib to escape it . 
Cruel , cruel , 'tis of you ! You have been perfectly safe , nevertheless . 
And Troy returned the weapon to the scabbard . 
Bathsheba , overcome by a hundred tumultuous feelings resulting from the scene , abstractedly sat down on a tuft of heather . 
I must leave you now , said Troy , softly . 
And I'll venture to take and keep this in remembrance of you . 
She felt powerless to withstand or deny him . 
He was altogether too much for her , and Bathsheba seemed as one who , facing a reviving wind , finds it blow so strongly that it stops the breath . 
He drew near and said , I must be leaving you . 
A minute later and she saw his scarlet form disappear amid the ferny thicket , almost in a flash , like a brand swiftly waved . 
It had brought upon her a stroke resulting , as did that of Moses in Horeb , in a liquid stream here a stream of tears . 
She felt like one who has sinned a great sin . 
The circumstance had been the gentle dip of Troy's mouth downwards upon her own . 
CHAPTER XXIX PARTICULARS OF A TWILIGHT WALK WE now see the element of folly distinctly mingling with the many varying particulars which made up the character of Bathsheba Everdene . 
It was almost foreign to her intrinsic nature . 
Introduced as lymph on the dart of Eros , it eventually permeated and coloured her whole constitution . 
Bathsheba , though she had too much understanding to be entirely governed by her womanliness , had too much womanliness to use her understanding to the best advantage . 
Bathsheba loved Troy in the way that only self reliant women love when they abandon their self reliance . 
When a strong woman recklessly throws away her strength she is worse than a weak woman who has never had any strength to throw away . 
One source of her inadequacy is the novelty of the occasion . 
She has never had practice in making the best of such a condition . 
Weakness is doubly weak by being new . 
Bathsheba was not conscious of guile in this matter . 
Of the fabricated tastes of good fashionable society she knew but little , and of the formulated self indulgence of bad , nothing at all . 
, they would only have amounted to such a matter as that she felt her impulses to be pleasanter guides than her discretion . 
Her love was entire as a child's , and though warm as summer it was fresh as spring . 
Her culpability lay in her making no attempt to control feeling by subtle and careful inquiry into consciences . 
She could show others the steep and thorny way , but reck'd not her own rede . 
The difference between love and respect was markedly shown in her conduct . 
Bathsheba had spoken of her interest in Boldwood with the greatest freedom to Liddy , but she had only communed with her own heart concerning Troy . 
That he was not beloved had hitherto been his great sorrow that Bathsheba was getting into the toils was now a sorrow greater than the first , and one which nearly obscured it . 
It was a result which paralleled the oft quoted observation of Hippocrates concerning physical pains . 
That is a noble though perhaps an unpromising love which not even the fear of breeding aversion in the bosom of the one beloved can deter from combating his or her errors . 
Oak determined to speak to his mistress . 
He would base his appeal on what he considered her unfair treatment of Farmer Boldwood , now absent from home . 
An opportunity occurred one evening when she had gone for a short walk by a path through the neighbouring cornfields . 
It was dusk when Oak , who had not been far a field that day , took the same path and met her returning , quite pensively , as he thought . 
The wheat was now tall , and the path was narrow thus the way was quite a sunken groove between the embowing thicket on either side . 
Two persons could not walk abreast without damaging the crop , and Oak stood aside to let her pass . 
Oh , is it Gabriel ? she said . 
You are taking a walk too . 
I thought I would come to meet you , as it is rather late , said Oak , turning and following at her heels when she had brushed somewhat quickly by him . 
Thank you , indeed , but I am not very fearful . 
Oh no but there are bad characters about . 
Now Oak , with marvellous ingenuity , had been going to introduce the gallant sergeant through the channel of bad characters . 
But all at once the scheme broke down , it suddenly occurring to him that this was rather a clumsy way , and too barefaced to begin with . 
And as the man who would naturally come to meet you is away from home , too I mean Farmer Boldwood why , thinks I , I'll go , he said . 
She walked on without turning her head , and for many steps nothing further was heard from her quarter than the rustle of her dress against the heavy corn ears . 
Then she resumed rather tartly I don't quite understand what you meant by saying that Mr. Boldwood would naturally come to meet me . 
I meant on account of the wedding which they say is likely to take place between you and him , miss . 
They say what is not true . 
No marriage is likely to take place between us . 
Gabriel now put forth his unobscured opinion , for the moment had come . 
Well , Miss Everdene , he said , putting aside what people say , I never in my life saw any courting if his is not a courting of you . 
Since this subject has been mentioned , she said very emphatically , I am glad of the opportunity of clearing up a mistake which is very common and very provoking . 
I didn't definitely promise Mr. Boldwood anything . 
I have never cared for him . 
I respect him , and he has urged me to marry him . 
But I have given him no distinct answer . 
As soon as he returns I shall do so and the answer will be that I cannot think of marrying him . 
People are full of mistakes , seemingly . 
Well , I hope they speak the truth . 
They do , but wrongly applied . 
I don't trifle with him but then , I have nothing to do with him . 
Oak was unfortunately led on to speak of Boldwood's rival in a wrong tone to her after all . 
I wish you had never met that young Sergeant Troy , miss , he sighed . 
Bathsheba's steps became faintly spasmodic . 
He is not good enough for 'ee . 
Did any one tell you to speak to me like this ? Nobody at all . 
Then it appears to me that Sergeant Troy does not concern us here , she said , intractably . 
Yet I must say that Sergeant Troy is an educated man , and quite worthy of any woman . 
His being higher in learning and birth than the ruck o' soldiers is anything but a proof of his worth . 
It show's his course to be down'ard . 
I cannot see what this has to do with our conversation . 
Mr. Troy's course is not by any means downward and his superiority IS a proof of his worth ! I believe him to have no conscience at all . 
And I cannot help begging you , miss , to have nothing to do with him . 
Listen to me this once only this once ! I don't say he's such a bad man as I have fancied I pray to God he is not . 
Why , pray ? I like soldiers , but this one I do not like , he said , sturdily . 
His cleverness in his calling may have tempted him astray , and what is mirth to the neighbours is ruin to the woman . 
When he tries to talk to 'ee again , why not turn away with a short Good day and when you see him coming one way , turn the other . 
That man of a family that has come to the dogs . 
Don't be unmannerly towards en , but harmless uncivil , and so get rid of the man . 
No Christmas robin detained by a window pane ever pulsed as did Bathsheba now . 
I say I say again that it doesn't become you to talk about him . 
Why he should be mentioned passes me quite ! she exclaimed desperately . 
I know this , th th that he is a thoroughly conscientious man blunt sometimes even to rudeness but always speaking his mind about you plain to your face ! Oh . 
He is as good as anybody in this parish ! He is very particular , too , about going to church yes , he is ! I am afeard nobody saw him there . 
I never did , certainly . 
This supreme instance of Troy's goodness fell upon Gabriel ears like the thirteenth stroke of crazy clock . 
It was not only received with utter incredulity as regarded itself , but threw a doubt on all the assurances that had preceded it . 
Oak was grieved to find how entirely she trusted him . 
I only mention this to bring to your mind that at any rate I would wish to do you no harm beyond that I put it aside . 
Don't , don't , don't ! she exclaimed , in a choking voice . 
Are ye not more to me than my own affairs , and even life ! he went on . 
I wish you to go elsewhere , she commanded , a paleness of face invisible to the eye being suggested by the trembling words . 
Do not remain on this farm any longer . 
I don't want you I beg you to go ! That's nonsense , said Oak , calmly . 
You know , too , that I can't go without putting things in such a strait as you wouldn't get out of I can't tell when . 
Unless , indeed , you'll promise to have an understanding man as bailiff , or manager , or something . 
I'll go at once if you'll promise that . 
I shall have no bailiff I shall continue to be my own manager , she said decisively . 
Very well , then you should be thankful to me for biding . 
How would the farm go on with nobody to mind it but a woman ? But mind this , I don't wish 'ee to feel you owe me anything . 
Not I. What I do , I do . 
Sometimes I say I should be as glad as a bird to leave the place for don't suppose I'm content to be a nobody . 
I was made for better things . 
However , I don't like to see your concerns going to ruin , as they must if you keep in this mind . 
At any rate she murmured something to the effect that he might stay if he wished . 
Certainly I will , Miss Everdene , said Gabriel , gently . 
He stood still and allowed her to get far ahead of him till he could only see her form upon the sky . 
A distressing explanation of this anxiety to be rid of him at that point now ensued . 
A figure apparently rose from the earth beside her . 
The shape beyond all doubt was Troy's . 
Oak would not be even a possible listener , and at once turned back till a good two hundred yards were between the lovers and himself . 
Gabriel went home by way of the churchyard . 
In passing the tower he thought of what she had said about the sergeant's virtuous habit of entering the church unperceived at the beginning of service . 
Believing that the little gallery door alluded to was quite disused , he ascended the external flight of steps at the top of which it stood , and examined it . 
It was a decisive proof that the door had not been opened at least since Troy came back to Weatherbury . 
CHAPTER XXX HOT CHEEKS AND TEARFUL EYES HALF an hour later Bathsheba entered her own house . 
There burnt upon her face when she met the light of the candles the flush and excitement which were little less than chronic with her now . 
The farewell words of Troy , who had accompanied her to the very door , still lingered in her ears . 
He had bidden her adieu for two days , which were so he stated , to be spent at Bath in visiting some friends . 
He had also kissed her a second time . 
He had hinted she had forbidden and it was only on the chance of his still coming that she had dismissed Oak , fearing a meeting between them just then . 
She now sank down into a chair , wild and perturbed by all these new and fevering sequences . 
Then she jumped up with a manner of decision , and fetched her desk from a side table . 
She had expressed to Oak an intention to wait till Boldwood came home before communicating to him her conclusive reply . 
But Bathsheba found that she could not wait . 
She paused in the passage . 
A dialogue was going on in the kitchen , and Bathsheba and Troy were the subject of it . 
If he marry her , she'll gie up farming . 
'Twill be a gallant life , but may bring some trouble between the mirth so say I. Well , I wish I had half such a husband . 
She burst in upon them . 
Who are you speaking of ? she asked . 
There was a pause before anybody replied . 
At last Liddy said frankly , What was passing was a bit of a word about yourself , miss . 
I thought so ! Maryann and Liddy and Temperance now I forbid you to suppose such things . 
You know I don't care the least for Mr. Troy not I. Everybody knows how much I hate him . 
Yes , repeated the froward young person , HATE him ! We know you do , miss , said Liddy and so do we all . 
I hate him too , said Maryann . 
Maryann Oh you perjured woman ! How can you speak that wicked story ! said Bathsheba , excitedly . 
You admired him from your heart only this morning in the very world , you did . 
Yes , Maryann , you know it ! Yes , miss , but so did you . 
He is a wild scamp now , and you are right to hate him . 
He's NOT a wild scamp ! How dare you to my face ! I have no right to hate him , nor you , nor anybody . 
But I am a silly woman ! What is it to me what he is ? You know it is nothing . 
Oh miss ! said mild Liddy , looking pitifully into Bathsheba's face . 
I am sorry we mistook you so ! I did think you cared for him but I see you don't now . 
Shut the door , Liddy . 
Liddy closed the door , and went on People always say such foolery , miss . 
I'll make answer hencefor'ard , 'Of course a lady like Miss Everdene can't love him' I'll say it out in plain black and white . 
Bathsheba burst out O Liddy , are you such a simpleton ? Can't you read riddles ? Can't you see ? Are you a woman yourself ? Liddy's clear eyes rounded with wonderment . 
Yes you must be a blind thing , Liddy ! she said , in reckless abandonment and grief . 
Oh , I love him to very distraction and misery and agony ! Don't be frightened at me , though perhaps I am enough to frighten any innocent woman . 
She put her arms round Liddy's neck . 
Liddy went towards the door . 
I don't I know it is not true ! said Liddy , frightened at Bathsheba's unwonted vehemence . 
I suppose you only agree with me like that to please me . 
But , Liddy , he CANNOT BE had , as is said . 
Do you hear ? Yes , miss , yes . 
And you don't believe he is ? I don't know what to say , miss , said Liddy , beginning to cry . 
He is not had at all . 
My poor life and heart , how weak I am ! she moaned , in a relaxed , desultory way , heedless of Liddy's presence . 
Oh , how I wish I had never seen him ! Loving is misery for women always . 
I shall never forgive God for making me a woman , and dearly am I beginning to pay for the honour of owning a pretty face . 
She freshened and turned to Liddy suddenly . 
And , if you please , I'll go at the end of the harvest , or this week , or to day . 
I don't see that I deserve to be put upon and stormed at for nothing ! concluded the small woman , bigly . 
No , no , Liddy you must stay ! said Bathsheba , dropping from haughtiness to entreaty with capricious inconsequence . 
You must not notice my being in a taking just now . 
You are not as a servant you are a companion to me . 
I wonder sometimes if I am doomed to die in the Union . 
I am friendless enough , God knows ! I won't notice anything , nor will I leave you ! sobbed Liddy , impulsively putting up her lips to Bathsheba's , and kissing her . 
Then Bathsheba kissed Liddy , and all was smooth again . 
I don't often cry , do I , Lidd ? but you have made tears come into my eyes , she said , a smile shining through the moisture . 
Try to think him a good man , won't you , dear Liddy ? I will , miss , indeed . 
He is a sort of steady man in a wild way , you know . 
That's better than to be as some are , wild in a steady way . 
I am afraid that's how I am . 
I think God likes us to be good friends , don't you ? Indeed I do . 
Never ! do you ? said Bathsheba , slightly laughing , though somewhat seriously alarmed by this Amazonian picture of herself . 
I hope I am not a bold sort of maid mannish ? she continued with some anxiety . 
Oh no , not mannish but so almighty womanish that 'tis getting on that way sometimes . 
Ah ! miss , she said , after having drawn her breath very sadly in and sent it very sadly out , I wish I had half your failing that way . 
The arrangement was that Miss Everdene should honour them by coming there for a day or two to inspect some ingenious contrivances which this man of the woods had introduced into his wares . 
Freshness was exhaled in an essence from the varied contours of bank and hollow , as if the earth breathed maiden breath and the pleased birds were hymning to the scene . 
Boldwood was stepping on , not with that quiet tread of reserved strength which was his customary gait , in which he always seemed to be balancing two thoughts . 
His manner was stunned and sluggish now . 
Boldwood had for the first time been awakened to woman's privileges in tergiversation even when it involves another person's possible blight . 
But the argument now came back as sorry gleams from a broken mirror . 
The discovery was no less a scourge than a surprise . 
He came on looking upon the ground , and did not see Bathsheba till they were less than a stone's throw apart . 
He looked up at the sound of her pit pat , and his changed appearance sufficiently denoted to her the depth and strength of the feelings paralyzed by her letter . 
Oh is it you , Mr. Boldwood ? she faltered , a guilty warmth pulsing in her face . 
Those who have the power of reproaching in silence may find it a means more effective than words . 
There are accents in the eye which are not on the tongue , and more tales come from pale lips than can enter an ear . 
It is both the grandeur and the pain of the remoter moods that they avoid the pathway of sound . 
Seeing she turned a little aside , he said , What , are you afraid of me ? Why should you say that ? said Bathsheba . 
I fancied you looked so , said he . 
And it is most strange , because of its contrast with my feeling for you . 
She regained self possession , fixed her eyes calmly , and waited . 
You know what that feeling is , continued Boldwood , deliberately . 
A thing strong as death . 
No dismissal by a hasty letter affects that . 
I wish you did not feel so strongly about me , she murmured . 
It is generous of you , and more than I deserve , but I must not hear it now . 
Hear it ? What do you think I have to say , then ? I am not to marry you , and that's enough . 
Your letter was excellently plain . 
I want you to hear nothing not I. Bathsheba was unable to direct her will into any definite groove for freeing herself from this fearfully and was moving on . 
Boldwood walked up to her heavily and dully . 
Bathsheba darling is it final indeed ? Indeed it is . 
Oh , Bathsheba have pity upon me ! Boldwood burst out . 
God's sake , yes I am come to that low , lowest stage to ask a woman for pity ! Still , she is you she is you . 
But she could hardly get a clear voice for what came instinctively to her lips There is little honour to the woman in that speech . 
I am beyond myself about this , and am mad , he said . 
I am no stoic at all to he supplicating here but I do supplicate to you . 
I wish you knew what is in me of devotion to you but it is impossible , that . 
In bare human mercy to a lonely man , don't throw me off now ! I don't throw you off indeed , how can I ? I never had you . 
In her noon clear sense that she had never loved him she forgot for a moment her thoughtless angle on that day in February . 
But , I say , there was a time when I knew nothing of you , and cared nothing for you , and yet you drew me on . 
And if you say you gave me no encouragement , I cannot but contradict you . 
What you call encouragement was the childish game of an idle minute . 
I have bitterly repented of it ay , bitterly , and in tears . 
Can you still go on reminding me ? I don't accuse you of it I deplore it . 
I took for earnest what you insist was jest , and now this that I pray to be jest you say is awful , wretched earnest . 
Our moods meet at wrong places . 
How nearly you promised me ! But I don't speak now to move your heart , and make you grieve because of my pain it is no use , that . 
I must bear it my pain would get no less by paining you . 
But I do pity you deeply O , so deeply ! she earnestly said . 
Do no such thing do no such thing . 
Yet each of those pleasures was just for the day the day just for the pleasure . 
One thing is sure you were all but mine , and now you are not nearly mine . 
Everything is changed , and that by you alone , remember . 
She strove miserably against this feminity which would insist upon supplying unbidden emotions in stronger and stronger current . 
I did not take you up surely I did not ! she answered as heroically as she could . 
But don't be in this mood with me . 
I tell you all this , but what do you care ! You don't care . 
Dearest , dearest , I am wavering even now between the two opposites of recklessly renouncing you , and labouring humbly for you again . 
You overrate my capacity for love . 
I don't possess half the warmth of nature you believe me to have . 
An unprotected childhood in a cold world has beaten gentleness out of me . 
No , no ! It isn't because you have no feeling in you that you don't love me . 
You naturally would have me think so you would hide from me that you have a burning heart like mine . 
You have love enough , but it is turned into a new channel . 
The swift music of her heart became hubbub now , and she throbbed to extremity . 
He was coming to Troy . 
He did then know what had occurred ! And the name fell from his lips the next moment . 
Why did Troy not leave my treasure alone ? he asked , fiercely . 
Can you deny it I ask , can you deny it ? She delayed the reply , but was to honest to with hold it . 
I cannot , she whispered . 
But he stole in in my absence and robbed me . 
Why did't he win you away before , when nobody would have been grieved ? when nobody would have been set tale bearing . 
Now the people sneer at me the very hills and sky seem to laugh at me till I blush shamefuly for my folly . 
I have lost my respect , my good name , my standing lost it , never to get it again . 
Go and marry your man go on ! Oh sir Mr. Boldwood ! You may as well . 
I have no further claim upon you . 
As for me , I had better go somewhere alone , and hide and pray . 
I loved a woman once . 
When I am dead they'll say , Miserable love sick man that he was . 
Heaven heaven if I had got jilted secretly , and the dishonour not known , and my position kept ! But no matter , it is gone , and the woman not gained . 
Dazzled by brass and scarlet Oh , Bathsheba this is woman's folly indeed ! She fired up at once . 
You are taking too much upon yourself ! she said , vehemently . 
Everybody is upon me everybody . 
It is unmanly to attack a woman so ! I have nobody in the world to fight my battles for me but no mercy is shown . 
Yet if a thousand of you sneer and say things against me , I WILL NOT be put down ! You'll chatter with him doubtless about me . 
Say to him , Boldwood would have died for me . 
Yes , and you have given way to him , knowing him to be not the man for you . 
He has kissed you claimed you as his . 
Do you hear he has kissed you . 
She gasped , Leave me , sir leave me ! I am nothing to you . 
Let me go on ! Deny that he has kissed you . 
Ha then he has ! came hoarsely from the farmer . 
He has , she said , slowly , and , in spite of her fear , defiantly . 
I am not ashamed to speak the truth . 
Then curse him and curse him ! said Boldwood , breaking into a whispered fury . 
Whilst I would have given worlds to touch your hand , you have let a rake come in without right or ceremony and kiss you ! Heaven's mercy kiss you ! . 
Oh , be kind to him , sir , for I love him true ! Boldwood's ideas had reached that point of fusion at which outline and consistency entirely disappear . 
The impending night appeared to concentrate in his eye . 
He did not hear her at all now . 
I'll punish him by my soul , that will I ! I'll meet him , soldier or no , and I'll horsewhip the untimely stripling for this reckless theft of my one delight . 
If he were a hundred men I'd horsewhip him He dropped his voice suddenly and unnaturally . 
Bathsheba , sweet , lost coquette , pardon me ! I've been blaming you , threatening you , behaving like a churl to you , when he's the greatest sinner . 
He stole your dear heart away with his unfathomable lies ! . 
I pray God he may not come into my sight , for I may be tempted beyond myself . 
He turned his face away , and withdrew , and his form was soon covered over by the twilight as his footsteps mixed in with the low hiss of the leafy trees . 
Such astounding wells of fevered feeling in a still man like Mr. Boldwood were incomprehensible , dreadful . 
Instead of being a man trained to repression he was what she had seen him . 
She felt wretchedly certain that if he revisited her just at this nick of time , and came into contact with Boldwood , a fierce quarrel would be the consequence . 
She panted with solicitude when she thought of possible injury to Troy . 
With almost a morbid dread of being thought a gushing girl , this guileless woman too well concealed from the world under a manner of carelessness the warm depths of her strong emotions . 
But now there was no reserve . 
In her distraction , instead of advancing further she walked up and down , beating the air with her fingers , pressing on her brow , and sobbing brokenly to herself . 
Then she sat down on a heap of stones by the wayside to think . 
Above the dark margin of the earth appeared foreshores and promontories of coppery cloud , bounding a green and pellucid expanse in the western sky . 
Amaranthine glosses came over them then , and the unresting world wheeled her round to a contrasting prospect eastward , in the shape of indecisive and palpitating stars . 
She gazed upon their silent throes amid the shades of space , but realised none at all . 
Her troubled spirit was far away with Troy . 
CHAPTER XXXII NIGHT HORSES TRAMPING THE village of Weatherbury was quiet as the graveyard in its midst , and the living were lying well nigh as still as the dead . 
The church clock struck eleven . 
The notes flew forth with the usual blind obtuseness of inanimate things flapping and rebounding among walls , undulating against the scattered clouds , spreading through their interstices into unexplored miles of space . 
Bathsheba's crannied and mouldy halls were to night occupied only by Maryann , Liddy being , as was stated , with her sister , whom Bathsheba had set out to visit . 
A few minutes after eleven had struck , Maryann turned in her bed with a sense of being disturbed . 
She was totally unconscious of the nature of the interruption to her sleep . 
It led to a dream , and the dream to an awakening , with an uneasy sensation that something had happened . 
She left her bed and looked out of the window . 
The paddock abutted on this end of the building , and in the paddock she could just discern by the uncertain gray a moving figure approaching the horse that was feeding there . 
The figure seized the horse by the forelock , and led it to the corner of the field . 
Two varieties only of humanity could have entered the paddock with the ghostlike glide of that mysterious figure . 
They were a woman and a gipsy man . 
Moreover , to raise suspicion to conviction itself , there were gipsies in Weatherbury Bottom . 
Maryann , who had been afraid to shout in the robber's presence , having seen him depart had no fear . 
She hastily slipped on her clothes , stumped down the disjointed staircase with its hundred creaks , ran to Coggan's , the nearest house , and raised an alarm . 
Coggan called Gabriel , who now again lodged in his house as at first , and together they went to the paddock . 
Beyond all doubt the horse was gone . 
Distinct upon the stagnant air came the sounds of a trotting horse passing up Longpuddle Lane just beyond the gipsies' encampment in Weatherbury Bottom . 
That's our Dainty I'll swear to her step , said Jan . 
Mighty me ! Won't mis'ess storm and call us stupids wen she comes back ! moaned Maryann . 
How I wish it had happened when she was at home , and none of us had been answerable ! We must ride after , said Gabriel , decisively . 
I'll be responsible to Miss Everdene for what we do . 
Faith , I don't see how , said Coggan . 
Which pair ? Mr. Boldwood's Tidy and Moll . 
Then wait here till I come hither again , said Gabriel . 
He ran down the hill towards Farmer Boldwood's . 
Farmer Boldwood is not at home , said Maryann . 
All the better , said Coggan . 
I know what he's gone for . 
Less than five minutes brought up Oak again , running at the same pace , with two halters dangling from his hand . 
Where did you find 'em ? said Coggan , turning round and leaping upon the hedge without waiting for an answer . 
I knew where they were kept , said Gabriel , following him . 
Coggan , you can ride bare backed ? there's no time to look for saddles . 
Like a hero ! said Jan . 
Maryann , you go to bed , Gabriel shouted to her from the top of the hedge . 
Having neither bit nor bridle , Oak and Coggan extemporized the former by passing the rope in each case through the animal's mouth and looping it on the other side . 
Oak vaulted astride , and Coggan clambered up by aid of the bank , when they ascended to the gate and galloped off in the direction taken by Bathsheha's horse and the robber . 
Whose vehicle the horse had been harnessed to was a matter of some uncertainty . 
Weatherbury Bottom was reached in three or four minutes . 
They scanned the shady green patch by the roadside . 
The villains ! said Gabriel . 
Which way have they gone , I wonder ? Straight on , as sure as God made little apples , said Jan . 
Very well we are better mounted , and must overtake em' , said Oak . 
Now on at full speed ! No sound of the rider in their van could now be discovered . 
The road metal grew softer and more rain had wetted its surface to a somewhat plastic , but not muddy state . 
They came to cross roads . 
Coggan suddenly pulled up Moll and slipped off . 
What's the matter ? said Gabriel . 
We must try to track 'em , since we can't hear 'em , said Jan , fumbling in his pockets . 
He struck a light , and held the match to the ground . 
One set of tracks was fresh and had no water in them one pair of ruts was also empty , and not small canals , like the others . 
Straight on ! Jan exclaimed . 
Tracks like that mean a stiff gallop . 
No wonder we don't hear him . 
And the horse is harnessed look at the ruts . 
Ay , that's our mare sure enough ! How do you know ? Old Jimmy Harris only shoed her last week , and I'd swear to his make among ten thousand . 
The rest of the gipsies must ha' gone on earlier , or some other way , said Oak . 
You saw there were no other tracks ? True . 
They rode along silently for a long weary time . 
Coggan carried an old pinchbeck repeater which he had inherited from some genius in his family and it now struck one . 
He lighted another match , and examined the ground again . 
'Tis a canter now , he said , throwing away the light . 
A twisty , rickety pace for a gig . 
The fact is , they over drove her at starting , we shall catch 'em yet . 
Again they hastened on , and entered Blackmore Vale . 
When they looked again the hoof marks were so spaced as to form a sort of zigzag if united , like the lamps along a street . 
That's a trot , I know , said Gabriel . 
Only a trot now , said Coggan , cheerfully . 
We shall overtake him in time . 
They pushed rapidly on for yet two or three miles . 
Ah ! a moment , said Jan . 
Let's see how she was driven up this hill . 
A light was promptly struck upon his gaiters as before , and the examination made . 
She walked up here and well she might . 
We shall get them in two miles , for a crown . 
They rode three , and listened . 
No sound was to be heard save a millpond trickling hoarsely through a hatch , and suggesting gloomy possibilities of drowning by jumping in . 
Gabriel dismounted when they came to a turning . 
What does this mean ? though I guess , said Gabriel , looking up at Coggan as he moved the match over the ground about the turning . 
Coggan , who , no less than the panting horses , had latterly shown signs of weariness , again scrutinized the mystic characters . 
This time only three were of the regular horseshoe shape . 
Every fourth was a dot . 
He screwed up his face and emitted a long Whew w w ! Lame , said Oak . 
Yes Dainty is lamed the near foot afore , said Coggan slowly staring still at the footprints . 
We'll push on , said Gabriel , remounting his humid steed . 
Although the road along its greater part had been as good as any turnpike road in the country , it was nominally only a byway . 
The last turning had brought them into the high road leading to Bath . 
We shall have him now ! he exclaimed . 
The keeper of that gate is the sleepiest man between here and London Dan Randall , that's his name knowed en for years , when he was at Casterbridge gate . 
Between the lameness and the gate 'tis a done job . 
They now advanced with extreme caution . 
Nothing was said until , against a shady background of foliage , five white bars were visible , crossing their route a little way ahead . 
Hush we are almost close ! said Gabriel . 
Amble on upon the grass , said Coggan . 
The white bars were blotted out in the midst by a dark shape in front of them . 
The silence of this lonely time was pierced by an exclamation from that quarter . 
The rays illumined the whole group . 
Keep the gate close ! shouted Gabriel . 
He has stolen the horse ! Who ? said the turnpike man . 
Gabriel looked at the driver of the gig , and saw a woman Bathsheba , his mistress . 
On hearing his voice she had turned her face away from the light . 
Coggan had , however , caught sight of her in the meanwhile . 
Why , 'tis mistress I'll take my oath ! he said , amazed . 
Well , Gabriel , she inquired quietly , where are you going ? We thought began Gabriel . 
I am driving to Bath , she said , taking for her own use the assurance that Gabriel lacked . 
An important matter made it necessary for me to give up my visit to Liddy , and go off at once . 
What , then , were you following me ? We thought the horse was stole . 
Well what a thing ! How very foolish of you not to know that I had taken the trap and horse . 
I could neither wake Maryann nor get into the house , though I hammered for ten minutes against her window sill . 
Fortunately , I could get the key of the coach house , so I troubled no one further . 
Didn't you think it might be me ? Why should we , miss ? Perhaps not . 
I did leave an account and you would have seen it in the morning . 
I wrote in chalk on the coach house doors that I had come back for the horse and gig , and driven off that I could arouse nobody , and should return soon . 
But you'll consider , ma'am , that we couldn't see that till it got daylight . 
She added with a very pretty grace , Well , I really thank you heartily for taking all this trouble but I wish you had borrowed anybody's horses but Mr. Boldwood's . 
Dainty is lame , miss , said Coggan . 
Can ye go on ? It was only a stone in her shoe . 
I got down and pulled it out a hundred yards back . 
I can manage very well , thank you . 
I shall be in Bath by daylight . 
Coggan and Gabriel put about their horses , and , fanned by the velvety air of this July night , retraced the road by which they had come . 
A strange vagary , this of hers , isn't it , Oak ? said Coggan , curiously . 
Yes , said Gabriel , shortly . 
She won't be in Bath by no daylight ! Coggan , suppose we keep this night's work as quiet as we can ? I am of one and the same mind . 
We shall be home by three o'clock or so , and can creep into the parish like lambs . 
Bathsheba's perturbed meditations by the roadside had ultimately evolved a conclusion that there were only two remedies for the present desperate state of affairs . 
The first was merely to keep Troy away from Weatherbury till Boldwood's indignation had cooled the second to listen to Oak's entreaties , and Boldwood's denunciations , and give up Troy altogether . 
She jumped to her feet . 
She would see him at once . 
Yes , she would implore him by word of mouth to assist her in this dilemma . 
A letter to keep him away could not reach him in time , even if he should be disposed to listen to it . 
The scheme seemed at first impossible the journey was a fearfully heavy one , even for a strong horse , at her own estimate and she much underrated the distance . 
It was most venturesome for a woman , at night , and alone . 
But could she go on to Liddy's and leave things to take their course ? No , no anything but that . 
Bathsheba was full of a stimulating turbulence , beside which caution vainly prayed for a hearing . 
She turned back towards the village . 
Her walk was slow , for she wished not to enter Weatherbury till the cottagers were in bed , and , particularly , till Boldwood was secure . 
, starting early the next morning on her return journey . 
But in her topographical ignorance as a late comer to the place , she misreckoned the distance of her journey as not much more than half what it really was . 
This idea she proceeded to carry out , with what initial success we have already seen . 
CHAPTER XXXIII IN THE SUN A HARBINGER A WEEK passed , and there were no tidings of Bathsheba nor was there any explanation of her Gilpin's rig . 
The oat harvest began , and all the men were a field under a monochromatic Lammas sky , amid the trembling air and short shadows of noon . 
Every drop of moisture not in the men's bottles and flagons in the form of cider was raining as perspiration from their foreheads and cheeks . 
I wonder who that is ? he said . 
, but an unlucky token came to me indoors this morning . 
I went to unlock the door and dropped the key , and it fell upon the stone floor and broke into two pieces . 
Breaking a key is a dreadful bodement . 
I wish mis'ess was home . 
'Tis Cain Ball , said Gabriel , pausing from whetting his reaphook . 
He's dressed up in his best clothes , said Matthew Moon . 
He hev been away from home for a few days , since he's had that felon upon his finger for 'a said , since I can't work I'll have a hollerday . 
Twas a bad leg allowed me to read the PILGRIM'S PROGRESS , and Mark Clark learnt All Fours in a whitlow . 
When he came close , his mouth assumed the bell shape , and he began to cough violently . 
Now , Cainy ! said Gabriel , sternly . 
How many more times must I tell you to keep from running so fast when you be eating ? You'll choke yourself some day , that's what you'll do , Cain Ball . 
Hok hok hok ! replied Cain . 
Something is always going the wrong way down your throat , so that you can't tell what's necessary to be told . 
Ahok ! there ! Please , Mister Oak , a gnat have just fleed into my stomach and brought the cough on again ! Yes , that's just it . 
Your mouth is always open , you young rascal ! 'Tis terrible bad to have a gnat fly down yer throat , pore boy ! said Matthew Moon . 
Well , at Bath you saw prompted Gabriel . 
I saw our mistress , continued the junior shepherd , and a sojer , walking along . 
Well , I see our mis'ess and a soldier a ha a wk ! Damn the boy ! said Gabriel . 
'Tis only my manner , Mister Oak , if ye'll excuse it , said Cain Ball , looking reproachfully at Oak , with eyes drenched in their own dew . 
For my poor self , I always say 'please God' afore I do anything , said Joseph , in an unboastful voice and so should you , Cain Ball . 
'Tis a great safeguard , and might perhaps save you from being choked to death some day . 
There's a great clumsy sneeze ! Why can't ye have better manners , you young dog ! said Coggan , withdrawing the flagon . 
And a great history on hand , too . 
Bump his back , shepherd . 
'Tis my nater , mourned Cain . 
Mother says I always was so excitable when my feelings were worked up to a point ! True , true , said Joseph Poorgrass . 
The Balls were always a very excitable family . 
I knowed the boy's grandfather a truly nervous and modest man , even to genteel refinery . 
'Twas blush , blush with him , almost as much as 'tis with me not but that 'tis a fault in me ! Not at all , Master Poorgrass , said Coggan . 
'Tis a very noble quality in ye . 
Heh heh ! well , I wish to noise nothing abroad nothing at all , murmured Poorgrass , diffidently . 
But we be born to things that's true . 
But under your bushel , Joseph ! under your bushel with 'ee ! A strange desire , neighbours , this desire to hide , and no praise due . 
Yet there is a Sermon on the Mount with a calendar of the blessed at the head , and certain meek men may be named therein . 
Cainy's grandfather was a very clever man , said Matthew Moon . 
Invented a' apple tree out of his own head , which is called by his name to this day the Early Ball . 
You know 'em , Jan ? A Quarrenden grafted on a Tom Putt , and a Rathe ripe upon top o' that again . 
And I think the sojer was Sergeant Troy . 
And they sat there together for more than half an hour , talking moving things , and she once was crying a'most to death . 
Gabriel's features seemed to get thinner . 
Well , what did you see besides ? Oh , all sorts . 
White as a lily ? You are sure 'twas she ? Yes . 
Well , what besides ? Great glass windows to the shops , and great clouds in the sky , full of rain , and old wooden trees in the country round . 
You stun poll ! What will ye say next ? said Coggan . 
Let en alone , interposed Joseph Poorgrass . 
The boy's meaning is that the sky and the earth in the kingdom of Bath is not altogether different from ours here . 
'Tis for our good to gain knowledge of strange cities , and as such the boy's words should be suffered , so to speak it . 
And the people of Bath , continued Cain , never need to light their fires except as a luxury , for the water springs up out of the earth ready boiled for use . 
'Tis true as the light , testified Matthew Moon . 
I've heard other navigators say the same thing . 
They drink nothing else there , said Cain , and seem to enjoy it , to see how they swaller it down . 
Well , it seems a barbarian practice enough to us , but I daresay the natives think nothing o' it , said Matthew . 
And don't victuals spring up as well as drink ? asked Coggan , twirling his eye . 
No I own to a blot there in Bath a true blot . 
God didn't provide 'em with victuals as well as drink , and 'twas a drawback I couldn't get over at all . 
Well , 'tis a curious place , to say the least , observed Moon and it must be a curious people that live therein . 
Miss Everdene and the soldier were walking about together , you say ? said Gabriel , returning to the group . 
Ay , and she wore a beautiful gold colour silk gown , trimmed with black lace , that would have stood alone 'ithout legs inside if required . 
'Twas a very winsome sight and her hair was brushed splendid . 
And when the sun shone upon the bright gown and his red coat my ! how handsome they looked . 
You could see 'em all the length of the street . 
And what then ? murmured Gabriel . 
If you excites me , perhaps you'll bring on my cough , and then I shan't be able to tell ye nothing . 
Yes let him tell it his own way , said Coggan . 
And I went to grand churches and chapels . 
Our poor Parson Thirdly can't get no money to buy such rings , said Matthew Moon , thoughtfully . 
And as good a man as ever walked . 
I don't believe poor Thirdly have a single one , even of humblest tin or copper . 
Such a great ornament as they'd be to him on a dull afternoon , when he's up in the pulpit lighted by the wax candles ! But 'tis impossible , poor man . 
Ah , to think how unequal things be . 
Perhaps he's made of different stuff than to wear 'em , said Gabriel , grimly . 
Well , that's enough of this . 
Go on , Cainy quick . 
A very right feeling very , said Joseph Poorgrass . 
And there's two religions going on in the nation now High Church and High Chapel . 
And , thinks I , I'll play fair so I went to High Church in the morning , and High Chapel in the afternoon . 
A right and proper boy , said Joseph Poorgrass . 
Well , at High Church they pray singing , and worship all the colours of the rainbow and at High Chapel they pray preaching , and worship drab and whitewash only . 
And then I didn't see no more of Miss Everdene at all . 
Why didn't you say so afore , then ? exclaimed Oak , with much disappointment . 
Ah , said Matthew Moon , she'll wish her cake dough if so be she's over intimate with that man . 
She's not over intimate with him , said Gabriel , indignantly . 
She would know better , said Coggan . 
Our mis'ess has too much sense under they knots of black hair to do such a mad thing . 
You see , he's not a coarse , ignorant man , for he was well brought up , said Matthew , dubiously . 
'Twas only wildness that made him a soldier , and maids rather like your man of sin . 
I don't mind saying 'tis true , but I don't like to say 'tis damn true , if that's what you mane . 
Cain , Cain , how can you ! asked Joseph sternly . 
You be asked to swear in a holy manner , and you swear like wicked Shimei , the son of Gera , who cursed as he came . 
Young man , fie ! No , I don't ! 'Tis you want to squander a pore boy's soul , Joseph Poorgrass that's what 'tis ! said Cain , beginning to cry . 
Cain Ball , you'll come to a bit of bread ! groaned Joseph Poorgrass . 
Then the reapers' hooks were flourished again , and the old sounds went on . 
Gabriel , without making any pretence of being lively , did nothing to show that he was particularly dull . 
However , Coggan knew pretty nearly how the land lay , and when they were in a nook together he said Don't take on about her , Gabriel . 
What difference does it make whose sweetheart she is , since she can't be yours ? That's the very thing I say to myself , said Gabriel . 
CHAPTER XXXIV HOME AGAIN A TRICKSTER THAT same evening at dusk Gabriel was leaning over Coggan's garden gate , taking an up and down survey before retiring to rest . 
A vehicle of some kind was softly creeping along the grassy margin of the lane . 
From it spread the tones of two women talking . 
The tones were natural and not at all suppressed . 
Oak instantly knew the voices to he those of Bathsheba and Liddy . 
The carriage came opposite and passed by . 
It was Miss Everdene's gig , and Liddy and her mistress were the only occupants of the seat . 
Liddy was asking questions about the city of Bath , and her companion was answering them listlessly and unconcernedly . 
Both Bathsheba and the horse seemed weary . 
The exquisite relief of finding that she was here again , safe and sound , overpowered all reflection , and Oak could only luxuriate in the sense of it . 
All grave reports were forgotten . 
He lingered and lingered on , till there was no difference between the eastern and western expanses of sky , and the timid hares began to limp courageously round the dim hillocks . 
Gabriel might have been there an additional half hour when a dark form walked slowly by . 
Good night , Gabriel , the passer said . 
Good night , sir , said Gabriel . 
Boldwood likewise vanished up the road , and Oak shortly afterwards turned indoors to bed . 
Farmer Boldwood went on towards Miss Everdene's house . 
He reached the front , and approaching the entrance , saw a light in the parlour . 
The blind was not drawn down , and inside the room was Bathsheba , looking over some papers or letters . 
Her back was towards Boldwood . 
He went to the door , knocked , and waited with tense muscles and an aching brow . 
Boldwood had not been outside his garden since his meeting with Bathsheba in the road to Yalbury . 
By degrees a more charitable temper had pervaded him , and this was the reason of his sally to night . 
He inquired for Miss Everdene . 
Liddy's manner was odd , but he did not notice it . 
She went in , leaving him standing there , and in her absence the blind of the room containing Bathsheba was pulled down . 
Boldwood augured ill from that sign . 
My mistress cannot see you , sir , she said . 
The farmer instantly went out by the gate . 
He as unforgiven that was the issue of it all . 
Boldwood did not hurry homeward . 
It was ten o'clock at least , when , walking deliberately through the lower part of Weatherbury , he heard the carrier's spring van entering the village . 
The lamp fixed to the head of the hood illuminated a scarlet and gilded form , who was the first to alight . 
Ah ! said Boldwood to himself , come to see her again . 
Troy entered the carrier's house , which had been the place of his lodging on his last visit to his native place . 
Boldwood was moved by a sudden determination . 
In ten minutes he was back again , and made as if he were going to call upon Troy at the carrier's . 
But as he approached , some one opened the door and came out . 
He heard this person say Good night to the inmates , and the voice was Troy's . 
This was strange , coming so immediately after his arrival . 
Boldwood , however , hastened up to him . 
Troy had what appeared to be a carpet bag in his hand the same that he had brought with him . 
It seemed as if he were going to leave again this very night . 
Troy turned up the hill and quickened his pace . 
Sergeant Troy ? Yes I'm Sergeant Troy . 
Just arrived from up the country , I think ? Just arrived from Bath . 
The tone in which this word was uttered was all that had been wanted to bring Boldwood to the point . 
I wish to speak a word with you , he said . 
What about ? About her who lives just ahead there and about a woman you have wronged . 
I wonder at your impertinence , said Troy , moving on . 
Now look here , said Boldwood , standing in front of him , wonder or not , you are going to hold a conversation with me . 
Troy heard the dull determination in Boldwood's voice , looked at his stalwart frame , then at the thick cudgel he carried in his hand . 
He remembered it was past ten o'clock . 
It seemed worth while to be civil to Boldwood . 
Very well , I'll listen with pleasure , said Troy , placing his bag on the ground , only speak low , for somebody or other may overhear us in the farmhouse there . 
Well then I know a good deal concerning your Fanny Robin's attachment to you . 
I may say , too , that I believe I am the only person in the village , excepting Gabriel Oak , who does know it . 
You ought to marry her . 
Indeed , l wish to , but I cannot . 
Why ? Troy was about to utter something hastily he then checked himself and said , I am too poor . 
Previously it had had a devil may care tone . 
It was the voice of a trickster now . 
Boldwood's present mood was not critical enough to notice tones . 
I intend a business transaction with you . 
I see , said Troy . 
Suppose we sit down here . 
An old tree trunk lay under the hedge immediately opposite , and they sat down . 
I was engaged to be married to Miss Everdene , said Boldwood , but you came and Not engaged , said Troy . 
If I had not turned up she might have become engaged to you . 
Hang might ! Would , then . 
If you had not come I should certainly yes , CERTAINLY have been accepted by this time . 
If you had not seen her you might have been married to Fanny . 
Well , there's too much difference between Miss Everdene's station and your own for this flirtation with her ever to benefit you by ending in marriage . 
So all I ask is , don't molest her any more . 
I'll make it worth your while . 
How will you ? I'll pay you well now , I'll settle a sum of money upon her , and I'll see that you don't suffer from poverty in the future . 
In making this statement Boldwood's voice revealed only too clearly a consciousness of the weakness of his position , his aims , and his method . 
We discern a grand force in the lover which he lacks whilst a free man but there is a breadth of vision in the free man which in the lover we vainly seek . 
Where there is much bias there must be some narrowness , and love , though added emotion , is subtracted capacity . 
Boldwood exemplified this to an abnormal degree he knew nothing of Fanny Robin's circumstances or whereabouts , he knew nothing of Troy's possibilities , yet that was what he said . 
But she's only a servant . 
Never mind do you agree to my arrangement ? I do . 
Ah ! said Boldwood , in a more elastic voice . 
Oh , Troy , if you like her best , why then did you step in here and injure my happiness ? I love Fanny best now , said Troy . 
But Bathsh Miss Everdene inflamed me , and displaced Fanny for a time . 
Why should it be over so soon ? And why then did you come here again ? There are weighty reasons . 
Fifty pounds at once , you said ! I did , said Boldwood , and here they are fifty sovereigns . 
He handed Troy a small packet . 
You have everything ready it seems that you calculated on my accepting them , said the sergeant , taking the packet . 
I thought you might accept them , said Boldwood . 
You've only my word that the programme shall be adhered to , whilst I at any rate have fifty pounds . 
Stop , listen ! said Troy in a whisper . 
A light pit pat was audible upon the road just above them . 
By George 'tis she , he continued . 
I must go on and meet her . 
Bathsheba out alone at this time o' night ! said Boldwood in amazement , and starting up . 
Why must you meet her ? She was expecting me to night and I must now speak to her , and wish her good bye , according to your wish . 
I don't see the necessity of speaking . 
It can do no harm and she'll be wandering about looking for me if I don't . 
You shall hear all I say to her . 
It will help you in your love making when I am gone . 
Will you confine your words to that one point ? Shall I hear every word you say ? Every word . 
Now sit still there , and hold my carpet bag for me , and mark what you hear . 
The light footstep came closer , halting occasionally , as if the walker listened for a sound . 
Troy whistled a double note in a soft , fluty tone . 
Come to that , is it ! murmured Boldwood , uneasily . 
You promised silence , said Troy . 
Frank , dearest , is that you ? The tones were Bathsheba's . 
O God ! said Boldwood . 
Yes , said Troy to her . 
How late you are , she continued , tenderly . 
Did you come by the carrier ? I listened and heard his wheels entering the village , but it was some time ago , and I had almost given you up , Frank . 
I was sure to come , said Frank . 
I've packed them all off so nobody on earth will know of your visit to your lady's bower . 
Liddy wanted to go to her grandfather's to tell him about her holiday , and I said she might stay with them till to morrow when you'll be gone again . 
She turned and tripped up the hill again . 
During the progress of this dialogue there was a nervous twitching of Boldwood's tightly closed lips , and his face became bathed in a clammy dew . 
He now started forward towards Troy . 
Troy turned to him and took up the bag . 
Shall I tell her I have come to give her up and cannot marry her ? said the soldier , mockingly . 
No , no wait a minute . 
I want to say more to you more to you ! said Boldwood , in a hoarse whisper . 
Now , said Troy , you see my dilemma . 
Perhaps I am a bad man the victim of my impulses led away to do what I ought to leave undone . 
I can't , however , marry them both . 
And I have two reasons for choosing Fanny . 
First , I like her best upon the whole , and second , you make it worth my while . 
At the same instant Boldwood sprang upon him , and held him by the neck . 
Troy felt Boldwood's grasp slowly tightening . 
The move was absolutely unexpected . 
A moment , he gasped . 
You are injuring her you love ! Well , what do you mean ? said the farmer . 
Give me breath , said Troy . 
Boldwood loosened his hand , saying , By Heaven , I've a mind to kill you ! And ruin her . 
Oh , how can she be saved now , unless I marry her ? Boldwood groaned . 
He reluctantly released the soldier , and flung him back against the hedge . 
Devil , you torture me ! said he . 
Indeed it is a barbarous way of settling a quarrel . 
I shall shortly leave the army because of the same conviction . 
I'm glad you see it . 
Troy , make her your wife , and don't act upon what I arranged just now . 
The alternative is dreadful , but take Bathsheba I give her up ! She must love you indeed to sell soul and body to you so utterly as she has done . 
I could do anything with poor Fanny Robin . 
Troy , said Boldwood , imploringly , I'll do anything for you , only don't desert her pray don't desert her , Troy . 
Which , poor Fanny ? No Bathsheba Everdene . 
Boldwood's arm moved spasmodically towards Troy's person again . 
He repressed the instinct , and his form drooped as with pain . 
Troy went on I shall soon purchase my discharge , and then But I wish you to hasten on this marriage ! It will be better for you both . 
You love each other , and you must let me help you to do it . 
How ? Why , by settling the five hundred on Bathsheba instead of Fanny , to enable you to marry at once . 
No she wouldn't have it of me . 
I'll pay it down to you on the wedding day . 
Troy paused in secret amazement at Boldwood's wild infatuation . 
He carelessly said , And am I to have anything now ? Yes , if you wish to . 
But I have not much additional money with me . 
I did not expect this but all I have is yours . 
Boldwood , more like a somnambulist than a wakeful man , pulled out the large canvas bag he carried by way of a purse , and searched it . 
I have twenty one pounds more with me , he said . 
Two notes and a sovereign . 
But she must know nothing of this cash business . 
Nothing , nothing , said Boldwood , hastily . 
Here is the sum , and if you'll come to my house we'll write out the agreement for the remainder , and the terms also . 
First we'll call upon her . 
But why ? Come with me to night , and go with me to morrow to the surrogate's . 
But she must be consulted at any rate informed . 
They went up the hill to Bathsheba's house . 
When they stood at the entrance , Troy said , Wait here a moment . 
Opening the door , he glided inside , leaving the door ajar . 
In two minutes a light appeared in the passage . 
Boldwood then saw that the chain had been fastened across the door . 
Troy appeared inside , carrying a bedroom candlestick . 
What , did you think I should break in ? said Boldwood , contemptuously . 
Oh , no , it is merely my humour to secure things . 
Will you read this a moment ? I'll hold the light . 
Troy handed a folded newspaper through the slit between door and doorpost , and put the candle close . 
That's the paragraph , he said , placing his finger on a line . 
Boldwood looked and read MARRIAGES . 
Ambrose's Church , Bath , by the Rev . 
G. Mincing , B. A. , Francis Troy , only son of the late Edward Troy , Esq . 
, M. D. , of Weatherbury , and sergeant with Dragoon Guards , to Bathsheba , only surviving daughter of the late Mr. John Everdene , of Casterbridge . 
This may be called Fort meeting Feeble , hey , Boldwood ? said Troy . 
A low gurgle of derisive laughter followed the words . 
The paper fell from Boldwood's hands . 
Troy continued Fifty pounds to marry Fanny . 
Twenty one pounds not to marry Fanny , but Bathsheba . 
Now , Boldwood , yours is the ridiculous fate which always attends interference between a man and his wife . 
Bad as I am , I am not such a villain as to make the marriage or misery of any woman a matter of huckster and sale . 
Fanny has long ago left me . 
I don't know where she is . 
You say you love Bathsheba yet on the merest apparent evidence you instantly believe in her dishonour . 
A fig for such love ! Now that I've taught you a lesson , take your money back again . 
I will not I will not ! said Boldwood , in a hiss . 
Anyhow I won't have it , said Troy , contemptuously . 
He wrapped the packet of gold in the notes , and threw the whole into the road . 
Boldwood shook his clenched fist at him . 
You juggler of Satan ! You black hound ! But I'll punish you yet mark me , I'll punish you yet ! Another peal of laughter . 
Troy then closed the door , and locked himself in . 
Throughout the whole of that night Boldwood's dark form maight have been seen walking about hills and downs of Weatherbury like an unhappy Shade in the Mournful Fields by Acheron . 
CHAPTER XXXV AT AN UPPER WINDOW IT was very early the next morning a time of sun and dew . 
All the lights in the scene were yellow as to colour , and all the shadows were attenuated as to form . 
The creeping plants about the old manor house were bowed with rows of heavy water drops , which had upon objects behind them the effect of minute lenses of high magnifying power . 
Just before the clock struck five Gabriel Oak and Coggan passed the village cross , and went on together to the fields . 
They were yet barely in view of their mistress's house , when Oak fancied he saw the opening of a casement in one of the upper windows . 
The two men were at this moment partially screened by an elder bush , now beginning to be enriched with black bunches of fruit , and they paused before emerging from its shade . 
A handsome man leaned idly from the lattice . 
He looked east and then west , in the manner of one who makes a first morning survey . 
The man was Sergeant Troy . 
His red jacket was loosely thrown on , but not buttoned , and he had altogether the relaxed bearing of a soldier taking his ease . 
Coggan spoke first , looking quietly at the window . 
She has married him ! he said . 
Gabriel had previously beheld the sight , and he now stood with his back turned , making no reply . 
I fancied we should know something to day , continued Coggan . 
I heard wheels pass my door just after dark you were out somewhere . 
He glanced round upon Gabriel . 
Good heavens above us , Oak , how white your face is you look like a corpse ! Do I ? said Oak , with a faint smile . 
Lean on the gate I'll wait a bit . 
All right , all right . 
They stood by the gate awhile , Gabriel listlessly staring at the ground . 
His mind sped into the future , and saw there enacted in years of leisure the scenes of repentance that would ensue from this work of haste . 
That they were married he had instantly decided . 
It was not Bathsheba's way to do things furtively . 
With all her faults , she was candour itself . 
Her quiet return with Liddy had to some extent dispersed the dread . 
Just as that imperceptible motion which appears like stillness is infinitely divided in its properties from stillness itself , so had his hope undistinguishable from despair differed from despair indeed . 
In a few minutes they moved on again towards the house . 
The sergeant still looked from the window . 
Morning , comrades ! he shouted , in a cheery voice , when they came up . 
Coggan replied to the greeting . 
Bain't ye going to answer the man ? he then said to Gabriel . 
I'd say good morning you needn't spend a hapenny of meaning upon it , and yet keep the man civil . 
Gabriel soon decided too that , since the deed was done , to put the best face upon the matter would be the greatest kindness to her he loved . 
Good morning , Sergeant Troy , he returned , in a ghastly voice . 
A rambling , gloomy house this , said Troy , smiling . 
Why they may not be married ! suggested Coggan . 
The soldier turned a little towards the east , and the sun kindled his scarlet coat to an orange glow . 
But it is a nice old house , responded Gabriel . 
Yes I suppose so but I feel like new wine in an old bottle here . 
My notion is that sash windows should be put throughout , and these old wainscoted walls brightened up a bit or the oak cleared quite away , and the walls papered . 
It would be a pity , I think . 
I am for making this place more modern , that we may be cheerful whilst we can . 
The military man turned and surveyed the interior of the room , to assist his ideas of improvement in this direction . 
Gabriel and Coggan began to move on . 
Oh , Coggan , said Troy , as if inspired by a recollection do you know if insanity has ever appeared in Mr. Boldwood's family ? Jan reflected for a moment . 
I once heard that an uncle of his was queer in his head , but I don't know the rights o't , he said . 
It is of no importance , said Troy , lightly . 
Well , I shall be down in the fields with you some time this week but I have a few matters to attend to first . 
So good day to you . 
We shall , of course , keep on just as friendly terms as usual . 
I'm not a proud man nobody is ever able to say that of Sergeant Troy . 
However , what is must be , and here's half a crown to drink my health , men . 
Troy threw the coin dexterously across the front plot and over the fence towards Gabriel , who shunned it in its fall , his face turning to an angry red . 
Coggan twirled his eye , edged forward , and caught the money in its ricochet upon the road . 
Very well you keep it , Coggan , said Gabriel with disdain and almost fiercely . 
As for me , I'll do with out gifts from him ! Don't show it too much , said Coggan , musingly . 
For if he's married to her , mark my words , he'll buy his discharge and be our master here . 
Therefore 'tis well to say 'Friend' outwardly , though you say 'Troublehouse' within . 
Well perhaps it is best to be silent but I can't go further than that . 
I can't flatter , and if my place here is only to be kept by smoothing him down , my place must be lost . 
A horseman , whom they had for some time seen in the distance , now appeared close beside them . 
There's Mr. Boldwood , said Oak . 
I wonder what Troy meant by his question . 
Coggan and Oak nodded respectfully to the farmer , just checked their paces to discover if they were wanted , and finding they were not stood back to let him pass on . 
The horse bore him away , and the very step of the animal seemed significant of dogged despair . 
Gabriel , for a minute , rose above his own grief in noticing Boldwood's . 
To one who knew the man and his story there was something more striking in this immobility than in a collapse . 
The night had a sinister aspect . 
The moon , as seen through these films , had a lurid metallic look . 
The fields were sallow with the impure light , and all were tinged in monochrome , as if beheld through stained glass . 
The same evening the sheep had trailed homeward head to tail , the behaviour of the rooks had been confused , and the horses had moved with timidity and caution . 
Before twelve hours had passed a harvest atmosphere would be a bygone thing . 
Oak gazed with misgiving at eight naked and unprotected ricks , massive and heavy with the rich produce of one half the farm for that year . 
He went on to the barn . 
This was the night which had been selected by Sergeant Troy ruling now in the room of his wife for giving the harvest supper and dance . 
As Oak approached the building the sound of violins and a tambourine , and the regular jigging of many feet , grew more distinct . 
He came close to the large doors , one of which stood slightly ajar , and looked in . 
Tufts and garlands of green foliage decorated the walls , beams , and extemporized chandeliers , and immediately opposite to Oak a rostrum had been erected , bearing a table and chairs . 
Here sat three fiddlers , and beside them stood a frantic man with his hair on end , perspiration streaming down his cheeks , and a tambourine quivering in his hand . 
The dance ended , and on the black oak floor in the midst a new row of couples formed for another . 
Now , ma'am , and no offence I hope , I ask what dance you would like next ? said the first violin . 
Troy was lolling beside her . 
Thanks for the compliment , said the sergeant gaily , taking Bathsheba by the hand and leading her to the top of the dance . 
As to the merits of The Soldier's Joy , there cannot be , and never were , two opinions . 
Vitus's dances , and fearful frenzies necessary when exhibiting its tones in their highest perfection . 
The immortal tune ended , a fine DD rolling forth from the bass viol with the sonorousness of a cannonade , and Gabriel delayed his entry no longer . 
Gabriel could not easily thrust himself within speaking distance of the sergeant , and he sent a message , asking him to come down for a moment . 
The sergeant said he could not attend . 
At the door he paused for a moment Troy was speaking . 
Friends , it is not only the harvest home that we are celebrating to night but this is also a Wedding Feast . 
A treble strong goblet will he handed round to each guest . 
True we don't wish for no more , thank ye , said one or two . 
Pooh ! said the sergeant contemptuously , and raised his voice as if lighted up by a new idea . 
Friends , he said , we'll send the women folk home ! 'Tis time they were in bed . 
Then we cockbirds will have a jolly carouse to ourselves ! If any of the men show the white feather , let them look elsewhere for a winter's work . 
Bathsheba indignantly left the barn , followed by all the women and children . 
The musicians , not looking upon themselves as company , slipped quietly away to their spring waggon and put in the horse . 
Thus Troy and the men on the farm were left sole occupants of the place . 
Gabriel proceeded towards his home . 
In approaching the door , his toe kicked something which felt and sounded soft , leathery , and distended , like a boxing glove . 
It was a large toad humbly travelling across the path . 
Oak took it up , thinking it might be better to kill the creature to save it from pain but finding it uninjured , he placed it again among the grass . 
He knew what this direct message from the Great Mother meant . 
When he struck a light indoors there appeared upon the table a thin glistening streak , as if a brush of varnish had been lightly dragged across it . 
Oak's eyes followed the serpentine sheen to the other side , where it led up to a huge brown garden slug , which had come indoors to night for reasons of its own . 
It was Nature's second way of hinting to him that he was to prepare for foul weather . 
Oak sat down meditating for nearly an hour . 
During this time two black spiders , of the kind common in thatched houses , promenaded the ceiling , ultimately dropping to the floor . 
This reminded him that if there was one class of manifestation on this matter that he thoroughly understood , it was the instincts of sheep . 
He left the room , ran across two or three fields towards the flock , got upon a hedge , and looked over among them . 
They had now a terror of something greater than their terror of man . 
This was enough to re establish him in his original opinion . 
He knew now that he was right , and that Troy was wrong . 
Every voice in nature was unanimous in bespeaking change . 
But two distinct translations attached to these dumb expressions . 
Apparently there was to be a thunder storm , and afterwards a cold continuous rain . 
This complication of weathers being uncommon , was all the more to be feared . 
Oak returned to the stack yard . 
All was silent here , and the conical tips of the ricks jutted darkly into the sky . 
There were five wheat ricks in this yard , and three stacks of barley . 
The wheat when threshed would average about thirty quarters to each stack the barley , at least forty . 
Their value to Bathsheba , and indeed to anybody , Oak mentally estimated by the following simple calculation x quarters L. x quarters L. Total . 
Such was the argument that Oak set outwardly before him . 
But man , even to himself , is a palimpsest , having an ostensible writing , and another beneath the lines . 
It is possible that there was this golden legend under the utilitarian one I will help to my last effort the woman I have loved so dearly . 
He went back to the barn to endeavour to obtain assistance for covering the ricks that very night . 
An unusual picture met his eye . 
The candles suspended among the evergreens had burnt down to their sockets , and in some cases the leaves tied about them were scorched . 
Many of the lights had quite gone out , others smoked and stank , grease dropping from them upon the floor . 
In the midst of these shone red and distinct the figure of Sergeant Troy , leaning back in a chair . 
Gabriel glanced hopelessly at the group , which , with one or two exceptions , composed all the able bodied men upon the farm . 
He saw at once that if the ricks were to be saved that night , or even the next morning , he must save them with his own hands . 
A faint ting ting resounded from under Coggan's waistcoat . 
It was Coggan's watch striking the hour of two . 
Oak went to the recumbent form of Matthew Moon , who usually undertook the rough thatching of the home stead , and shook him . 
The shaking was without effect . 
Gabriel shouted in his ear , where's your thatching beetle and rick stick and spars ? Under the staddles , said Moon , mechanically , with the unconscious promptness of a medium . 
Gabriel let go his head , and it dropped upon the floor like a bowl . 
He then went to Susan Tall's husband . 
Where's the key of the granary ? No answer . 
The question was repeated , with the same result . 
To be shouted to at night was evidently less of a novelty to Susan Tall's husband than to Matthew Moon . 
Oak flung down Tall's head into the corner again and turned away . 
To be just , the men were not greatly to blame for this painful and demoralizing termination to the evening's entertainment . 
This debauch boded ill for that wilful and fascinating mistress whom the faithful man even now felt within him as the embodiment of all that was sweet and bright and hopeless . 
So unnaturally did it rise that one could fancy it to be lifted by machinery from below . 
Going on to the village , Oak flung a small stone against the window of Laban Tall's bedroom , expecting Susan to open it but nobody stirred . 
He went round to the back door , which had been left unfastened for Laban's entry , and passed in to the foot of the stair case . 
Mrs. Tall , I've come for the key of the granary , to get at the rick cloths , said Oak , in a stentorian voice . 
Is that you ? said Mrs. Susan Tall , half awake . 
Come along to bed , do , you drawlatching rogue keeping a body awake like this ! It isn't Laban 'tis Gabriel Oak . 
I want the key of the granary . 
Gabriel ! What in the name of fortune did you pretend to be Laban for ? I didn't . 
I thought you meant Yes you did ! what do you want here ? The key of the granary . 
People coming disturbing women at this time of night ought Gabriel took the key , without waiting to hear the conclusion of the tirade . 
Two hundred pounds were secured . 
Three wheat stacks remained open , and there were no more cloths . 
Oak looked under the staddles and found a fork . 
So far all was well . 
By this hurried contrivance Bathsheba's property in wheat was safe for at any rate a week or two , provided always that there was not much wind . 
This it was only possible to protect by systematic thatching . 
Time went on , and the moon vanished not to reappear . 
It was the farewell of the ambassador previous to war . 
And now nothing was heard in the yard but the dull thuds of the beetle which drove in the spars , and the rustle of thatch in the intervals . 
CHAPTER XXXVII THE STORM THE TWO TOGETHER A LIGHT flapped over the scene , as if reflected from phosphorescent wings crossing the sky , and a rumble filled the air . 
It was the first move of the approaching storm . 
The second peal was noisy , with comparatively little visible lightning . 
Gabriel saw a candle shining in Bathsheba's bedroom , and soon a shadow swept to and fro upon the blind . 
Then there came a third flash . 
Manoeuvres of a most extraordinary kind were going on in the vast firmamental hollows overhead . 
The lightning now was the colour of silver , and gleamed in the heavens like a mailed army . 
Gabriel from his elevated position could see over the landscape at least half a dozen miles in front . 
Every hedge , bush , and tree was distinct as in a line engraving . 
A poplar in the immediate fore ground was like an ink stroke on burnished tin . 
Then the picture vanished , leaving the darkness so intense that Gabriel worked entirely by feeling with his hands . 
A blue light appeared in the zenith , and in some indescribable manner flickered down near the top of the rod . 
It was the fourth of the larger flashes . 
A moment later and there was a smack smart , clear , and short , Gabriel felt his position to be anything but a safe one , and he resolved to descend . 
Not a drop of rain had fallen as yet . 
He wiped his weary brow , and looked again at the black forms of the unprotected stacks . 
However , he took a precaution . 
Under the staddles was a long tethering chain , used to prevent the escape of errant horses . 
Under the shadow of this extemporized lightning conductor he felt himself comparatively safe . 
Before Oak had laid his hands upon his tools again out leapt the fifth flash , with the spring of a serpent and the shout of a fiend . 
It was green as an emerald , and the reverberation was stunning . 
What was this the light revealed to him ? In the open ground before him , as he looked over the ridge of the rick , was a dark and apparently female form . 
Could it be that of the only venturesome woman in the parish Bathsheba ? The form moved on a step then he could see no more . 
Is that you , ma'am ? said Gabriel to the darkness . 
Who is there ? said the voice of Bathsheba . 
I am on the rick , thatching . 
Oh , Gabriel ! and are you ? I have come about them . 
The weather awoke me , and I thought of the corn . 
I am so distressed about it can we save it anyhow ? I cannot find my husband . 
Is he with you ? He is not here . 
Do you know where he is ? Asleep in the barn . 
He promised that the stacks should be seen to , and now they are all neglected ! Can I do anything to help ? Liddy is afraid to come out . 
Every moment is precious now , and that would save a good deal of time . 
It is not very dark when the lightning has been gone a bit . 
I'll do anything ! she said , resolutely . 
She instantly took a sheaf upon her shoulder , clambered up close to his heels , placed it behind the rod , and descended for another . 
At her third ascent the rick suddenly brightened with the brazen glare of shining majolica every knot in every straw was visible . 
On the slope in front of him appeared two human shapes , black as jet . 
The rick lost its sheen the shapes vanished . 
It had been the sixth flash which had come from the east behind him , and the two dark forms on the slope had been the shadows of himself and Bathsheba . 
It hardly was credible that such a heavenly light could be the parent of such a diabolical sound . 
How terrible ! she exclaimed , and clutched him by the sleeve . 
Gabriel turned , and steadied her on her aerial perch by holding her arm . 
It was the shadow of that tree , thrown across by a secondary flash in the west . 
Bathsheba was on the ground now , shouldering another sheaf , and she bore its dazzle without flinching thunder and all and again ascended with the load . 
There was then a silence everywhere for four or five minutes , and the crunch of the spars , as Gabriel hastily drove them in , could again be distinctly heard . 
He thought the crisis of the storm had passed . 
But there came a burst of light . 
Hold on ! said Gabriel , taking the sheaf from her shoulder , and grasping her arm again . 
Heaven opened then , indeed . 
The flash was almost too novel for its inexpressibly dangerous nature to be at once realized , and they could only comprehend the magnificence of its beauty . 
It sprang from east , west , north , south , and was a perfect dance of death . 
The forms of skeletons appeared in the air , shaped with blue fire for bones dancing , leaping , striding , racing around , and mingling altogether in unparalleled confusion . 
With these were intertwined undulating snakes of green , and behind these was a broad mass of lesser light . 
In the meantime one of the grisly forms had alighted upon the point of Gabriel's rod , to run invisibly down it , down the chain , and into the earth . 
The other portion remained erect , and revealed the bared surface as a strip of white down the front . 
The lightning had struck the tree . 
A sulphurous smell filled the air then all was silent , and black as a cave in Hinnom . 
We had a narrow escape ! said Gabriel , hurriedly . 
You had better go down . 
Bathsheba said nothing but he could distinctly hear her rhythmical pants , and the recurrent rustle of the sheaf beside her in response to her frightened pulsations . 
She descended the ladder , and , on second thoughts , he followed her . 
The darkness was now impenetrable by the sharpest vision . 
They both stood still at the bottom , side by side . 
Bathsheba appeared to think only of the weather Oak thought only of her just then . 
At last he said The storm seems to have passed now , at any rate . 
I think so too , said Bathsheba . 
Nothing serious , said he . 
I cannot understand no rain falling . 
But Heaven be praised , it is all the better for us . 
I am now going up again . 
Gabriel , you are kinder than I deserve ! I will stay and help you yet . 
Oh , why are not some of the others here ! They would have been here if they could , said Oak , in a hesitating way . 
O , I know it all all , she said , adding slowly They are all asleep in the barn , in a drunken sleep , and my husband among them . 
That's it , is it not ? Don't think I am a timid woman and can't endure things . 
I am not certain , said Gabriel . 
I will go and see , He crossed to the barn , leaving her there alone . 
He looked through the chinks of the door . 
All was in total darkness , as he had left it , and there still arose , as at the former time , the steady buzz of many snores . 
He felt a zephyr curling about his cheek , and turned . 
It was Bathsheba's breath she had followed him , and was looking into the same chink . 
Then Oak went back again , ascended to the top , stepped off the ladder for greater expedition , and went on thatching . 
She followed , but without a sheaf . 
Gabriel , she said , in a strange and impressive voice . 
Oak looked up at her . 
She had not spoken since he left the barn . 
The soft and continual shimmer of the dying lightning showed a marble face high against the black sky of the opposite quarter . 
Bathsheba was sitting almost on the apex of the stack , her feet gathered up beneath her , and resting on the top round of the ladder . 
Yes , mistress , he said . 
And others thought so , too ? Yes . 
And you blamed me for it ? Well a little . 
For if I were to die and I may die soon it would be dreadful that you should always think mistakenly of me . 
I went to Bath that night in the full intention of breaking off my engagement to Mr. Troy . 
It was owing to circumstances which occurred after I got there that that we were married . 
Now , do you see the matter in a new light ? I do somewhat . 
I must , I suppose , say more , now that I have begun . 
Well , I was alone in a strange city , and the horse was lame . 
And at last I didn't know what to do . 
I saw , when it was too late , that scandal might seize hold of me for meeting him alone in that way . 
And I was grieved and troubled She cleared her voice , and waited a moment , as if to gather breath . 
And then , between jealousy and distraction , I married him ! she whispered with desperate impetuosity . 
He was not to blame , for it was perfectly true about about his seeing somebody else , she quickly added . 
And now I don't wish for a single remark from you upon the subject indeed , I forbid it . 
I only wanted you to know that misunderstood bit of my history before a time comes when you could never know it . 
You want some more sheaves ? She went down the ladder , and the work proceeded . 
I can finish the rest alone . 
If the wind does not change the rain is likely to keep off . 
If I am useless I will go , said Bathsheba , in a flagging cadence . 
But O , if your life should be lost ! You are not useless but I would rather not tire you longer . 
And you better ! she said , gratefully . 
Thank you for your devotion , a thousand times , Gabriel ! Goodnight I know you are doing your very best for me . 
She diminished in the gloom , and vanished , and he heard the latch of the gate fall as she passed through . 
He was disturbed in his meditation by a grating noise from the coach house . 
It was the vane on the roof turning round , and this change in the wind was the signal for a disastrous rain . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII RAIN ONE SOLITARY MEETS ANOTHER IT was now five o'clock , and the dawn was promising to break in hues of drab and ash . 
The air changed its temperature and stirred itself more vigorously . 
Cool breezes coursed in transparent eddies round Oak's face . 
The wind shifted yet a point or two and blew stronger . 
In ten minutes every wind of heaven seemed to be roaming at large . 
Some of the thatching on the wheat stacks was now whirled fantastically aloft , and had to be replaced and weighted with some rails that lay near at hand . 
This done , Oak slaved away again at the barley . 
A huge drop of rain smote his face , the wind snarled round every corner , the trees rocked to the bases of their trunks , and the twigs clashed in strife . 
Driving in spars at any point and on any system , inch by inch he covered more and more safely from ruin this distracting impersonation of seven hundred pounds . 
The rain came on in earnest , and Oak soon felt the water to be tracking cold and clammy routes down his back . 
Ultimately he was reduced well nigh to a homogeneous sop , and the dyes of his clothes trickled down and stood in a pool at the foot of the ladder . 
The rain stretched obliquely through the dull atmosphere in liquid spines , unbroken in continuity between their beginnings in the clouds and their points in him . 
As for her But Oak was generous and true , and dismissed his reflections . 
Faint sounds came from the barn , and he looked that way . 
The others shambled after with a conscience stricken air the whole procession was not unlike Flaxman's group of the suitors tottering on towards the infernal regions under the conduct of Mercury . 
The gnarled shapes passed into the village , Troy , their leader , entering the farmhouse . 
Not a single one of them had turned his face to the ricks , or apparently bestowed one thought upon their condition . 
Soon Oak too went homeward , by a different route from theirs . 
In front of him against the wet glazed surface of the lane he saw a person walking yet more slowly than himself under an umbrella . 
The man turned and plainly started he was Boldwood . 
How are you this morning , sir ? said Oak . 
Yes , it is a wet day . 
Oh , I am well , very well , I thank you quite well . 
I am glad to hear it , sir . 
Boldwood seemed to awake to the present by degrees . 
You look tired and ill , Oak , he said then , desultorily regarding his companion . 
You look strangely altered , sir . 
I ? Not a bit of it I am well enough . 
What put that into your head ? I thought you didn't look quite so topping as you used to , that was all . 
Indeed , then you are mistaken , said Boldwood , shortly . 
My constitution is an iron one . 
I've been working hard to get our ricks covered , and was barely in time . 
Never had such a struggle in my life . 
Yours of course are safe , sir . 
Them under the hedge ? No. I forgot to tell the thatcher to set about it . 
Nor the little one by the stile ? Nor the little one by the stile . 
I overlooked the ricks this year . 
Then not a tenth of your corn will come to measure , sir . 
Overlooked them , repeated Gabriel slowly to himself . 
It is difficult to describe the intensely dramatic effect that announcement had upon Oak at such a moment . 
All the night he had been feeling that the neglect he was labouring to repair was abnormal and isolated the only instance of the kind within the circuit of the county . 
Yet at this very time , within the same parish , a greater waste had been going on , uncomplained of and disregarded . 
A few months earlier Boldwood's forgetting his husbandry would have been as preposterous an idea as a sailor forgetting he was in a ship . 
Oak , you know as well as I that things have gone wrong with me lately . 
I may as well own it . 
I was going to get a little settled in life but in some way my plan has come to nothing . 
However , it is so sometimes , and nothing happens that we expect , he added , with the repose of a man whom misfortune had inured rather than subdued . 
I daresay I am a joke about the parish , said Boldwood , as if the subject came irresistibly to his tongue , and with a miserable lightness meant to express his indifference . 
Oh no I don't think that . 
But the real truth of the matter is that there was not , as some fancy , any jilting on her part . 
No engagement ever existed between me and Miss Everdene . 
People say so , but it is untrue she never promised me ! Boldwood stood still now and turned his wild face to Oak . 
Oh , Gabriel , he continued , I am weak and foolish , and I don't know what , and I can't fend off my miserable grief ! . 
I had some faint belief in the mercy of God till I lost that woman . 
Yes , He prepared a gourd to shade me , and like the prophet I thanked Him and was glad . 
But the next day He prepared a worm to smite the gourd and wither it and I feel it is better to die than to live ! A silence followed . 
Boldwood aroused himself from the momentary mood of confidence into which he had drifted , and walked on again , resuming his usual reserve . 
I do feel a little regret occasionally , but no woman ever had power over me for any length of time . 
Well , good morning I can trust you not to mention to others what has passed between us two here . 
In returning from market it is usual for the farmers and other gig gentry to alight at the bottom and walk up . 
One Saturday evening in the month of October Bathsheba's vehicle was duly creeping up this incline . 
She was sitting listlessly in the second seat of the gig , whilst walking beside her in farmer's marketing suit of unusually fashionable cut was an erect , well made young man . 
Though on foot , he held the reins and whip , and occasionally aimed light cuts at the horse's ear with the end of the lash , as a recreation . 
Yes , if it hadn't been for that wretched rain I should have cleared two hundred as easy as looking , my love , he was saying . 
The fact is , these autumn races are the ruin of everybody . 
Never did I see such a day as 'twas ! 'Tis a wild open place , just out of Budmouth , and a drab sea rolled in towards us like liquid misery . 
Wind and rain good Lord ! Dark ? Why , 'twas as black as my hat before the last race was run . 
'Twas five o'clock , and you couldn't see the horses till they were almost in , leave alone colours . 
The ground was as heavy as lead , and all judgment from a fellow's experience went for nothing . 
Horses , riders , people , were all blown about like ships at sea . 
Three booths were blown over , and the wretched folk inside crawled out upon their hands and knees and in the next field were as many as a dozen hats at one time . 
We shall have to leave the farm that will be the end of it ! Humbug about cruel . 
Now , there 'tis again turn on the waterworks that's just like you . 
But you'll promise me not to go to Budmouth second meeting , won't you ? she implored . 
Bathsheba was at the full depth for tears , but she maintained a dry eye . 
I don't see why I should in fact , if it turns out to be a fine day , I was thinking of taking you . 
Never , never ! I'll go a hundred miles the other way first . 
I hate the sound of the very word ! But the question of going to see the race or staying at home has very little to do with the matter . 
Bets are all booked safely enough before the race begins , you may depend . 
Whether it is a bad race for me or a good one , will have very little to do with our going there next Monday . 
But you don't mean to say that you have risked anything on this one too ! she exclaimed , with an agonized look . 
There now , don't you be a little fool . 
Wait till you are told . 
A flash of indignation might have been seen in Bathsheba's dark eyes as she looked resolutely ahead after this reply . 
They moved on without further speech , some early withered leaves from the trees which hooded the road at this spot occasionally spinning downward across their path to the earth . 
A woman appeared on the brow of the hill . 
The ridge was in a cutting , so that she was very near the husband and wife before she became visible . 
Troy had turned towards the gig to remount , and whilst putting his foot on the step the woman passed behind him . 
Please , sir , do you know at what time Casterbridge Union house closes at night ? The woman said these words to Troy over his shoulder . 
Troy started visibly at the sound of the voice yet he seemed to recover presence of mind sufficient to prevent himself from giving way to his impulse to suddenly turn and face her . 
He said , slowly I don't know . 
The woman , on hearing him speak , quickly looked up , examined the side of his face , and recognized the soldier under the yeoman's garb . 
Her face was drawn into an expression which had gladness and agony both among its elements . 
She uttered an hysterical cry , and fell down . 
Oh , poor thing ! exclaimed Bathsheba , instantly preparing to alight . 
Stay where you are , and attend to the horse ! said Troy , peremptorily throwing her the reins and the whip . 
Walk the horse to the top I'll see to the woman . 
But I Do you hear ? Clk Poppet ! The horse , gig , and Bathsheba moved on . 
Have you any money ? None . 
Good Heaven I wish I had more to give you ! Here's wretched the merest trifle . 
It is every farthing I have left . 
I have none but what my wife gives me , you know , and I can't ask her now . 
The woman made no answer . 
I have only another moment , continued Troy and now listen . 
Where are you going to night ? Casterbridge Union ? Yes I thought to go there . 
You shan't go there yet , wait . 
Yes , perhaps for to night I can do nothing better worse luck ! Sleep there to night , and stay there to morrow . 
Monday is the first free day I have and on Monday morning , at ten exactly , meet me on Grey's Bridge just out of the town . 
I'll bring all the money I can muster . 
You shan't want I'll see that , Fanny then I'll get you a lodging somewhere . 
I am a brute but good bye ! After advancing the distance which completed the ascent of the hill , Bathsheba turned her head . 
The woman was upon her feet , and Bathsheba saw her withdrawing from Troy , and going feebly down the hill by the third milestone from Casterbridge . 
Troy then came on towards his wife , stepped into the gig , took the reins from her hand , and without making any observation whipped the horse into a trot . 
Do you know who that woman was ? said Bathsheba , looking searchingly into his face . 
I do , he said , looking boldly back into hers . 
I thought you did , said she , with angry hauteur , and still regarding him . 
Who is she ? He suddenly seemed to think that frankness would benefit neither of the women . 
Nothing to either of us , he said . 
I know her by sight . 
What is her name ? How should I know her name ? I think you do . 
Think if you will , and be The sentence was completed by a smart cut of the whip round Poppet's flank , which caused the animal to start forward at a wild pace . 
CHAPTER XL ON CASTERBRIDGE HIGHWAY FOR a considerable time the woman walked on . 
Her steps became feebler , and she strained her eyes to look afar upon the naked road , now indistinct amid the penumbrae of night . 
At length her onward walk dwindled to the merest totter , and she opened a gate within which was a haystack . 
Underneath this she sat down and presently slept . 
When the woman awoke it was to find herself in the depths of a moonless and starless night . 
Towards this weak , soft glow the woman turned her eyes . 
If I could only get there ! she said . 
Meet him the day after to morrow God help me ! Perhaps I shall be in my grave before then . 
A manor house clock from the far depths of shadow struck the hour , one , in a small , attenuated tone . 
After midnight the voice of a clock seems to lose in breadth as much as in length , and to diminish its sonorousness to a thin falsetto . 
Afterwards a light two lights arose from the remote shade , and grew larger . 
A carriage rolled along the toad , and passed the gate . 
It probably contained some late diners out . 
The beams from one lamp shone for a moment upon the crouching woman , and threw her face into vivid relief . 
The face was young in the groundwork , old in the finish the general contours were flexuous and childlike , but the finer lineaments had begun to be sharp and thin . 
The pedestrian stood up , apparently with revived determination , and looked around . 
The road appeared to be familiar to her , and she carefully scanned the fence as she slowly walked along . 
Presently there became visible a dim white shape it was another milestone . 
She drew her fingers across its face to feel the marks . 
Two more ! she said . 
She leant against the stone as a means of rest for a short interval , then bestirred herself , and again pursued her way . 
For a slight distance she bore up bravely , afterwards flagging as before . 
This was beside a lone copsewood , wherein heaps of white chips strewn upon the leafy ground showed that woodmen had been faggoting and making hurdles during the day . 
Now there was not a rustle , not a breeze , not the faintest clash of twigs to keep her company . 
The woman looked over the gate , opened it , and went in . 
Close to the entrance stood a row of faggots , bound and un bound , together with stakes of all sizes . 
For a few seconds the wayfarer stood with that tense stillness which signifies itself to be not the end but merely the suspension , of a previous motion . 
Her attitude was that of a person who listens , either to the external world of sound , or to the imagined discourse of thought . 
A close criticism might have detected signs proving that she was intent on the latter alternative . 
By the aid of the Casterbridge aurora , and by feeling with her hands , the woman selected two sticks from the heaps . 
She placed one of these forks under each arm as a crutch , tested them , timidly threw her whole weight upon them so little that it was and swung herself forward . 
The girl had made for herself a material aid . 
The pat of her feet , and the tap of her sticks upon the highway , were all the sounds that came from the traveller now . 
She had passed the last milestone by a good long distance , and began to look wistfully towards the bank as if calculating upon another milestone soon . 
The crutches , though so very useful , had their limits of power . 
Mechanism only transfers labour , being powerless to supersede it , and the original amount of exertion was not cleared away it was thrown into the body and arms . 
She was exhausted , and each swing forward became fainter . 
At last she swayed sideways , and fell . 
Here she lay , a shapeless heap , for ten minutes and more . 
The morning wind began to boom dully over the flats , and to move afresh dead leaves which had lain still since yesterday . 
The woman desperately turned round upon her knees , and next rose to her feet . 
Steadying herself by the help of one crutch , she essayed a step , then another , then a third , using the crutches now as walking sticks only . 
Thus she progressed till descending Mellstock Hill another milestone appeared , and soon the beginning of an iron railed fence came into view . 
She staggered across to the first post , clung to it , and looked around . 
The Casterbridge lights were now individually visible , It was getting towards morning , and vehicles might be hoped for , if not expected soon . 
Less than a mile ! the woman murmured . 
No more , she added , after a pause . 
The mile is to the county hall , and my resting place is on the other side Casterbridge . 
A little over a mile , and there I am ! After an interval she again spoke . 
Five or six steps to a yard six perhaps . 
I have to go seventeen hundred yards . 
A hundred times six , six hundred . 
This woman was not given to soliloquy but extremity of feeling lessens the individuality of the weak , as it increases that of the strong . 
She said again in the same tone , I'll believe that the end lies five posts forward , and no further , and so get strength to pass them . 
This was a practical application of the principle that a half feigned and fictitious faith is better than no faith at all . 
She passed five posts and held on to the fifth . 
I'll pass five more by believing my longed for spot is at the next fifth . 
It lies only five further . 
But it is five further . 
That stone bridge is the end of my journey , she said , when the bridge over the Froom was in view . 
She crawled to the bridge . 
During the effort each breath of the woman went into the air as if never to return again . 
Now for the truth of the matter , she said , sitting down . 
The truth is , that I have less than half a mile . 
The half mile stood now before the sick and weary woman like a stolid Juggernaut . 
It was an impassive King of her world . 
The road here ran across Durnover Moor , open to the road on either side . 
She surveyed the wide space , the lights , herself , sighed , and lay down against a guard stone of the bridge . 
Never was ingenuity exercised so sorely as the traveller here exercised hers . 
She thought of sticks , wheels , crawling she even thought of rolling . 
But the exertion demanded by either of these latter two was greater than to walk erect . 
The faculty of contrivance was worn out , Hopelessness had come at last . 
No further ! she whispered , and closed her eyes . 
From the stripe of shadow on the opposite side of the bridge a portion of shade seemed to detach itself and move into isolation upon the pale white of the road . 
It glided noiselessly towards the recumbent woman . 
She became conscious of something touching her hand it was softness and it was warmth . 
She opened her eye's , and the substance touched her face . 
A dog was licking her cheek . 
He was a huge , heavy , and quiet creature , standing darkly against the low horizon , and at least two feet higher than the present position of her eyes . 
Whether Newfoundland , mastiff , bloodhound , or what not , it was impossible to say . 
He seemed to be of too strange and mysterious a nature to belong to any variety among those of popular nomenclature . 
Being thus assignable to no breed , he was the ideal embodiment of canine greatness a generalization from what was common to all . 
Night , in its sad , solemn , and benevolent aspect , apart from its stealthy and cruel side , was personified in this form . 
Darkness endows the small and ordinary ones among mankind with poetical power , and even the suffering woman threw her idea into figure . 
In her reclining position she looked up to him just as in earlier times she had , when standing , looked up to a man . 
A thought moved within her like lightning . 
Perhaps I can make use of him I might do it then ! She pointed in the direction of Casterbridge , and the dog seemed to misunderstand he trotted on . 
Then , finding she could not follow , he came back and whined . 
Her friend moved forward slowly , and she with small mincing steps moved forward beside him , half her weight being thrown upon the animal . 
Sometimes she sank as she had sunk from walking erect , from the crutches , from the rails . 
The dog , who now thoroughly understood her desire and her incapacity , was frantic in his distress on these occasions he would tug at her dress and run forward . 
She always called him back , and it was now to be observed that the woman listened for human sounds only to avoid them . 
It was evident that she had an object in keeping her presence on the road and her forlorn state unknown . 
Their progress was necessarily very slow . 
Thus the town was passed , and the goal was reached . 
On this much desired spot outside the town rose a picturesque building . 
Originally it had been a mere case to hold people . 
Then Nature , as if offended , lent a hand . 
This stone edifice consisted of a central mass and two wings , whereon stood as sentinels a few slim chimneys , now gurgling sorrowfully to the slow wind . 
In the wall was a gate , and by the gate a bellpull formed of a hanging wire . 
The woman raised herself as high as possible upon her knees , and could just reach the handle . 
She moved it and fell forwards in a bowed attitude , her face upon her bosom . 
It was getting on towards six o'clock , and sounds of movement were to be heard inside the building which was the haven of rest to this wearied soul . 
A little door by the large one was opened , and a man appeared inside . 
He discerned the panting heap of clothes , went back for a light , and came again . 
He entered a second time , and returned with two women . 
These lifted the prostrate figure and assisted her in through the doorway . 
The man then closed the door . 
How did she get here ? said one of the women . 
The Lord knows , said the other . 
There is a dog outside , murmured the overcome traveller . 
Where is he gone ? He helped me . 
I stoned him away , said the man . 
The little procession then moved forward the man in front bearing the light , the two bony women next , supporting between them the small and supple one . 
Thus they entered the house and disappeared . 
CHAPTER XLI SUSPICION FANNY IS SENT FOR BATHSHEBA said very little to her husband all that evening of their return from market , and he was not disposed to say much to her . 
He exhibited the unpleasant combination of a restless condition with a silent tongue . 
The next day , which was Sunday , passed nearly in the same manner as regarded their taciturnity , Bathsheba going to church both morning and afternoon . 
This was the day before the Budmouth races . 
In the evening Troy said , suddenly Bathsheba , could you let me have twenty pounds ? Her countenance instantly sank . 
Twenty pounds ? she said . 
The fact is , I want it badly . 
The anxiety upon Troy's face was unusual and very marked . 
It was a culmination of the mood he had been in all the day . 
Ah ! for those races to morrow . 
Troy for the moment made no reply . 
Her mistake had its advantages to a man who shrank from having his mind inspected as he did now . 
Well , suppose I do want it for races ? he said , at last . 
Oh , Frank ! Bathsheba replied , and there was such a volume of entreaty in the words . 
Come , let me fascinate you by all I can do by pretty words and pretty looks , and everything I can think of to stay at home . 
Had the woman not been his wife , Troy would have succumbed instantly as it was , he thought he would not deceive her longer . 
The money is not wanted for racing debts at all , he said . 
What is it for ? she asked . 
You worry me a great deal by these mysterious responsibilities , Frank . 
He did not now love her enough to allow himself to be carried too far by her ways . 
Yet it was necessary to be civil . 
You wrong me by such a suspicious manner , he said . 
Such strait waistcoating as you treat me to is not becoming in you at so early a date . 
I think that I have a right to grumble a little if I pay , she said , with features between a smile and a pout . 
Exactly and , the former being done , suppose we proceed to the latter . 
Bathsheba , fun is all very well , but don't go too far , or you may have cause to regret something . 
I do that already , she said , quickly . 
What do you regret ? That my romance has come to an end . 
All romances end at marriage . 
I wish you wouldn't talk like that . 
You grieve me to my soul by being smart at my expense . 
You are dull enough at mine . 
I believe you hate me . 
Not you only your faults . 
'Twould be much more becoming if you set yourself to cure them . 
Come , let's strike a balance with the twenty pounds , and be friends . 
She gave a sigh of resignation . 
I have about that sum here for household expenses . 
If you must have it , take it . 
I expect I shall have gone away before you are in to breakfast to morrow . 
And must you go ? Ah ! there was a time , Frank , when it would have taken a good many promises to other people to drag you away from me . 
You used to call me darling , then . 
But it doesn't matter to you how my days are passed now . 
I must go , in spite of sentiment . 
Bathsheba's eyes had been accidentally lifted at that moment , and she saw the action and saw the hair . 
She flushed in pain and surprise , and some words escaped her before she had thought whether or not it was wise to utter them . 
A woman's curl of hair ! she said . 
Oh , Frank , whose is that ? Troy had instantly closed his watch . 
He carelessly replied , as one who cloaked some feelings that the sight had stirred . 
Why , yours , of course . 
Whose should it be ? I had quite forgotten that I had it . 
What a dreadful fib , Frank ! I tell you I had forgotten it ! he said , loudly . 
I don't mean that it was yellow hair . 
I know it was yellow . 
Now whose was it ? I want to know . 
Very well I'll tell you , so make no more ado . 
It is the hair of a young woman I was going to marry before I knew you . 
You ought to tell me her name , then . 
Is she married yet ? No. Is she alive ? Yes . 
Is she pretty ? Yes . 
It is wonderful how she can be , poor thing , under such an awful affliction ! Affliction what affliction ? he inquired , quickly . 
Having hair of that dreadful colour . 
Oh ho I like that ! said Troy , recovering himself . 
Why , her hair has been admired by everybody who has seen her since she has worn it loose , which has not been long . 
People used to turn their heads to look at it , poor girl ! Pooh ! that's nothing that's nothing ! she exclaimed , in incipient accents of pique . 
If I cared for your love as much as I used to I could say people had turned to look at mine . 
Bathsheba , don't be so fitful and jealous . 
You knew what married life would be like , and shouldn't have entered it if you feared these contingencies . 
Troy had by this time driven her to bitterness her heart was big in her throat , and the ducts to her eyes were painfully full . 
I would have died for you how truly I can say that I would have died for you ! And now you sneer at my foolishness in marrying you . 
I can't help how things fall out , said Troy upon my heart , women will be the death of me ! Well you shouldn't keep people's hair . 
You'll burn it , won't you , Frank ? Frank went on as if he had not heard her . 
There are considerations even before my consideration for you reparations to be made ties you know nothing of . 
You don't repent because you already love somebody better than you love me , do you ? I don't know . 
Why do you say that ? You won't burn that curl . 
You like the woman who owns that pretty hair yes it is pretty more beautiful than my miserable black mane ! Well , it is no use I can't help being ugly . 
But just now you said 'ties' and then that woman we met ? 'Twas the meeting with her that reminded me of the hair . 
Is it hers , then ? Yes . 
There , now that you have wormed it out of me , I hope you are content . 
And what are the ties ? Oh ! that meant nothing a mere jest . 
A mere jest ! she said , in mournful astonishment . 
Can you jest when I am so wretchedly in earnest ? Tell me the truth , Frank . 
I am not a fool , you know , although I am a woman , and have my woman's moments . 
Come ! treat me fairly , she said , looking honestly and fearlessly into his face . 
I don't want much bare justice that's all ! Ah ! once I felt I could be content with nothing less than the highest homage from the husband I should choose . 
Now , anything short of cruelty will content me . 
Directly he had gone , Bathsheba burst into great sobs dry eyed sobs , which cut as they came , without any softening by tears . 
But she determined to repress all evidences of feeling . 
She was conquered but she would never own it as long as she lived . 
Her pride was indeed brought low by despairing discoveries of her spoliation by marriage with a less pure nature than her own . 
She chafed to and fro in rebelliousness , like a caged leopard her whole soul was in arms , and the blood fired her face . 
In those earlier days she had always nourished a secret contempt for girls who were the slaves of the first goodlooking young fellow who should choose to salute them . 
She had never taken kindly to the idea of marriage in the abstract as did the majority of women she saw about her . 
Although she scarcely knew the divinity's name , Diana was the goddess whom Bathsheba instinctively adored . 
She saw coming up the road a man like Mr. Boldwood . 
Bathsheba blushed painfully , and watched . 
The farmer stopped when still a long way off , and held up his hand to Gabriel Oak , who was in a footpath across the field . 
The two men then approached each other and seemed to engage in earnest conversation . 
Thus they continued for a long time . 
Joseph Poorgrass now passed near them , wheeling a barrow of apples up the hill to Bathsheba's residence . 
Boldwood and Gabriel called to him , spoke to him for a few minutes , and then all three parted , Joseph immediately coming up the hill with his barrow . 
Bathsheba , who had seen this pantomime with some surprise , experienced great relief when Boldwood turned back again . 
Well , what's the message , Joseph ? she said . 
He set down his barrow , and , putting upon himself the refined aspect that a conversation with a lady required , spoke to Bathsheba over the gate . 
You'll never see Fanny Robin no more use nor principal ma'am . 
Why ? Because she's dead in the Union . 
Fanny dead never ! Yes , ma'am . 
What did she die from ? I don't know for certain but I should be inclined to think it was from general neshness of constitution . 
She was such a limber maid that 'a could stand no hardship , even when I knowed her , and 'a went like a candle snoff , so 'tis said . 
She was took bad in the morning , and , being quite feeble and worn out , she died in the evening . 
She belongs by law to our parish and Mr. Boldwood is going to send a waggon at three this afternoon to fetch her home here and bury her . 
How very , very sad this is ! the idea of Fanny being in a workhouse . 
Bathsheba had begun to know what suffering was , and she spoke with real feeling . 
Send across to Mr. Boldwood's , and say that Mrs. Troy will take upon herself the duty of fetching an old servant of the family . 
We ought not to put her in a waggon we'll get a hearse . 
There will hardly be time , ma'am , will there ? Perhaps not , she said , musingly . 
When did you say we must be at the door three o'clock ? Three o'clock this afternoon , ma'am , so to speak it . 
Very well you go with it . 
A pretty waggon is better than an ugly hearse , after all . 
Joseph , have the new spring waggon with the blue body and red wheels , and wash it very clean . 
And , Joseph Yes , ma'am . 
Carry with you some evergreens and flowers to put upon her coffin indeed , gather a great many , and completely bury her in them . 
Get some boughs of laurustinus , and variegated box , and yew , and boy's love ay , and some hunches of chrysanthemum . 
And let old Pleasant draw her , because she knew him so well . 
Dear me Casterbridge Union and is Fanny come to this ? said Bathsheba , musing . 
I wish I had known of it sooner . 
I thought she was far away . 
How long has she lived there ? On'y been there a day or two . 
She only got handy the Union house on Sunday morning 'a b'lieve , and 'tis supposed here and there that she had traipsed every step of the way from Melchester . 
Why she left her place , I can't say , for I don't know and as to a lie , why , I wouldn't tell it . 
That's the short of the story , ma'am . 
Did she walk along our turnpike road ? she said , in a suddenly restless and eager voice . 
Ma'am , shall I call Liddy ? You bain't well , ma'am , surely ? You look like a lily so pale and fainty ! No don't call her it is nothing . 
When did she pass Weatherbury ? Last Saturday night . 
That will do , Joseph now you may go . 
Joseph , come hither a moment . 
Stop well no , go on . 
About an hour after , she heard the noise of the waggon and went out , still with a painful consciousness of her bewildered and troubled look . 
Joseph , dressed in his best suit of clothes , was putting in the horse to start . 
The shrubs and flowers were all piled in the waggon , as she had directed Bathsheba hardly saw them now . 
Whose sweetheart did you say , Joseph ? I don't know , ma'am . 
Are you quite sure ? Yes , ma'am , quite sure . 
Sure of what ? I'm sure that all I know is that she arrived in the morning and died in the evening without further parley . 
What Oak and Mr. Boldwood told me was only these few words . 
'Little Fanny Robin is dead , Joseph , Gabriel said , looking in my face in his steady old way . 
She reached the Union early Sunday morning , and died in the afternoon that's clear enough . 
Then I asked what she'd been doing lately , and Mr. Boldwood turned round to me then , and left off spitting a thistle with the end of his stick . 
They then said I had better just name a hint of her death to you , and away they went . 
However , 'tisn't much odds to us about that now , for 'tis all over . 
Have you heard a different story at all ? She looked at him so intently that Joseph's eyes quailed . 
Not a word , mistress , I assure 'ee ! he said . 
Hardly anybody in the parish knows the news yet . 
I wonder why Gabriel didn't bring the message to me himself . 
He mostly makes a point of seeing me upon the most trifling errand . 
These words were merely murmured , and she was looking upon the ground . 
Perhaps he was busy , ma'am , Joseph suggested . 
And sometimes he seems to suffer from things upon his mind , connected with the time when he was better off than 'a is now . 
'A's rather a curious item , but a very understanding shepherd , and learned in books . 
Did anything seem upon his mind whilst he was speaking to you about this ? I cannot but say that there did , ma'am . 
He was terrible down , and so was Farmer Boldwood . 
Go on now , or you'll be late . 
Bathsheba , still unhappy , went indoors again . 
It was light , ma'am but she wore it rather short , and packed away under her cap , so that you would hardly notice it . 
But I have seen her let it down when she was going to bed , and it looked beautiful then . 
Her young man was a soldier , was he not ? Yes . 
In the same regiment as Mr. Troy . 
He says he knew him very well . 
What , Mr. Troy says so ? How came he to say that ? One day I just named it to him , and asked him if he knew Fanny's young man . 
He said , Oh yes , he knew the young man as well as he knew himself , and that there wasn't a man in the regiment he liked better . 
CHAPTER XLII JOSEPH AND HIS BURDEN A WALL bounded the site of Casterbridge Union house , except along a portion of the end . 
Here a high gable stood prominent , and it was covered like the front with a mat of ivy . 
In this gable was no window , chimney , ornament , or protuberance of any kind . 
The single feature appertaining to it , beyond the expanse of dark green leaves , was a small door . 
The situation of the door was peculiar . 
Upon the whole , the door seemed to advertise itself as a species of Traitor's Gate translated to another sphere . 
That entry and exit hereby was only at rare intervals became apparent on noting that tufts of grass were allowed to flourish undisturbed in the chinks of the sill . 
Whilst the chimes were yet stammering out a shattered form of Malbrook . 
Joseph Poorgrass rang the bell , and received directions to back his waggon against the high door under the gable . 
The door then opened , and a plain elm coffin was slowly thrust forth , and laid by two men in fustian along the middle of the vehicle . 
Their connection with her , short as it had been , was over for ever . 
They came in yet greater volumes , and indolently crept across the intervening valleys , and around the withered papery flags of the moor and river brinks . 
Then their dank spongy forms closed in upon the sky . 
The air was as an eye suddenly struck blind . 
The waggon and its load rolled no longer on the horizontal division between clearness and opacity , but were imbedded in an elastic body of a monotonous pallor throughout . 
There was no perceptible motion in the air , not a visible drop of water fell upon a leaf of the beeches , birches , and firs composing the wood on either side . 
The trees stood in an attitude of intentness , as if they waited longingly for a wind to come and rock them . 
He felt anything but cheerful , and wished he had the company even of a child or dog . 
Stopping the horse , he listened . 
The fog had by this time saturated the trees , and this was the first dropping of water from the overbrimming leaves . 
The hollow echo of its fall reminded the waggoner painfully of the grim Leveller . 
Then hard by came down another drop , then two or three . 
Presently there was a continual tapping of these heavy drops upon the dead leaves , the road , and the travellers . 
At the roadside hamlet called Roy Town , just beyond this wood , was the old inn Buck's Head . 
The manners of the inn were of the old established type . 
Indeed , in the minds of its frequenters they existed as unalterable formulae E. G. Rap with the bottom of your pint for more liquor . 
In calling for the girl in waiting , say , Maid ! Ditto for the landlady , Old Soul ! etc . 
His spirits were oozing out of him quite . 
He turned the horse's head to the green bank , and entered the hostel for a mug of ale . 
Why , 'tis neighbour Poorgrass ! said Mark Clark . 
I'm sure your face don't praise your mistress's table , Joseph . 
I've had a very pale companion for the last four miles , said Joseph , indulging in a shudder toned down by resignation . 
And to speak the truth , 'twas beginning to tell upon me . 
I assure ye , I ha'n't seed the colour of victuals or drink since breakfast time this morning , and that was no more than a dew bit afield . 
Then drink , Joseph , and don't restrain yourself ! said Coggan , handing him a hooped mug three quarters full . 
Well , I must be on again , said Poorgrass . 
Not but that I should like another nip with ye but the parish might lose confidence in me if I was seed here . 
Where be ye trading o't to to day , then , Joseph ? Back to Weatherbury . 
I've got poor little Fanny Robin in my waggon outside , and I must be at the churchyard gates at a quarter to five with her . 
Ay I've heard of it . 
And so she's nailed up in parish boards after all , and nobody to pay the bell shilling and the grave half crown . 
The parish pays the grave half crown , but not the bell shilling , because the bell's a luxery but 'a can hardly do without the grave , poor body . 
However , I expect our mistress will pay all . 
I don't mind taking just the least thimbleful ye can dream of more with ye , sonnies . 
But only a few minutes , because 'tis as 'tis . 
Of course , you'll have another drop . 
A man's twice the man afterwards . 
You feel so warm and glorious , and you whop and slap at your work without any trouble , and everything goes on like sticks a breaking . 
True , said Mark Clark . 
'Tis a talent the Lord has mercifully bestowed upon us , and we ought not to neglect it . 
I've been troubled with weak moments lately , 'tis true . 
Your next world is your next world , and not to be squandered offhand . 
I believe ye to be a chapelmember , Joseph . 
Oh , no , no ! I don't go so far as that . 
For my part , said Coggan , I'm staunch Church of England . 
Ay , and faith , so be I , said Mark Clark . 
I won't say much for myself I don't wish to , Coggan continued , with that tendency to talk on principles which is characteristic of the barley corn . 
But I've never changed a single doctrine I've stuck like a plaster to the old faith I was born in . 
But to be a meetinger , you must go to chapel in all winds and weathers , and make yerself as frantic as a skit . 
Not but that chapel members be clever chaps enough in their way . 
They can lift up beautiful prayers out of their own heads , all about their families and shipwrecks in the newspaper . 
We know very well that if anybody do go to heaven , they will . 
They've worked hard for it , and they deserve to have it , such as 'tis . 
I bain't such a fool as to pretend that we who stick to the Church have the same chance as they , because we know we have not . 
But I hate a feller who'll change his old ancient doctrines for the sake of getting to heaven . 
I'd as soon turn king's evidence for the few pounds you get . 
If it hadn't been for him , I shouldn't hae had a tatie to put in my garden . 
However , folks , I must be moving now upon my life I must . 
Pa'son Thirdly will be waiting at the church gates , and there's the woman a biding outside in the waggon . 
Joseph Poorgrass , don't be so miserable ! Pa'son Thirdly won't mind . 
The longer Joseph Poorgrass remained , the less his spirit was troubled by the duties which devolved upon him this afternoon . 
The minutes glided by uncounted , until the evening shades began perceptibly to deepen , and the eyes of the three were but sparkling points on the surface of darkness . 
Coggan's repeater struck six from his pocket in the usual still small tones . 
At that moment hasty steps were heard in the entry , and the door opened to admit the figure of Gabriel Oak , followed by the maid of the inn bearing a candle . 
He stared sternly at the one lengthy and two round faces of the sitters , which confronted him with the expressions of a fiddle and a couple of warming pans . 
Joseph Poorgrass blinked , and shrank several inches into the background . 
Upon my soul , I'm ashamed of you 'tis disgraceful , Joseph , disgraceful ! said Gabriel , indignantly . 
Coggan , you call yourself a man , and don't know better than this . 
Don't take on so , shepherd ! said Mark Clark , looking reproachfully at the candle , which appeared to possess special features of interest for his eyes . 
Nobody can hurt a dead woman , at length said Coggan , with the precision of a machine . 
If she now wanted victuals and drink , I'd pay for it , money down . 
But she's dead , and no speed of ours will bring her to life . 
No , Shepherd Oak , no ! Listen to reason , shepherd . 
All that's the matter with me is the affliction called a multiplying eye , and that's how it is I look double to you I mean , you look double to me . 
A multiplying eye is a very bad thing , said Mark Clark . 
It always comes on when I have been in a public house a little time , said Joseph Poorgrass , meekly . 
Yes I see two of every sort , as if I were some holy man living in the times of King Noah and entering into the ark . 
He pulled the horse's head from the large patch of turf it had eaten bare , readjusted the boughs over the coffin , and drove along through the unwholesome night . 
But , thanks to Boldwood's reticence and Oak's generosity , the lover she had followed had never been individualized as Troy . 
By the time that Gabriel reached the old manor house , her residence , which lay in his way to the church , it was quite dark . 
The corpse is here , sir , said Gabriel . 
I have just been to inquire of Mrs. Troy if she could tell me the reason of the delay . 
I am afraid it is too late now for the funeral to be performed with proper decency . 
Have you the registrar's certificate ? No , said Gabriel . 
I expect Poorgrass has that and he's at the Buck's Head . 
I forgot to ask him for it . 
Then that settles the matter . 
We'll put off the funeral till to morrow morning . 
The body may be brought on to the church , or it may be left here at the farm and fetched by the bearers in the morning . 
They waited more than an hour , and have now gone home . 
Gabriel had his reasons for thinking the latter a most objectionable plan , notwithstanding that Fanny had been an inmate of the farm house for several years in the lifetime of Bathsheba's uncle . 
Visions of several unhappy contingencies which might arise from this delay flitted before him . 
But his will was not law , and he went indoors to inquire of his mistress what were her wishes on the subject . 
He found her in an unusual mood her eyes as she looked up to him were suspicious and perplexed as with some antecedent thought . 
Troy had not yet returned . 
Very well , then , said the parson . 
And I will arrange that the funeral shall take place early to morrow . 
Perhaps Mrs. Troy is right in feeling that we cannot treat a dead fellow creature too thoughtfully . 
The parson's words spread into the heavy air with a sad yet unperturbed cadence , and Gabriel shed an honest tear . 
Mr. Thirdly then left them , and Gabriel lighted a lantern . 
Every one except Gabriel Oak then left the room . 
He still indecisively lingered beside the body . 
He was deeply troubled at the wretchedly ironical aspect that circumstances were putting on with regard to Troy's wife , and at his own powerlessness to counteract them . 
In spite of his careful manoeuvring all this day , the very worst event that could in any way have happened in connection with the burial had happened now . 
The scrawl was this simple one , FANNY ROBIN AND CHILD . 
Gabriel took his handkerchief and carefully rubbed out the two latter words , leaving visible the inscription FANNY ROBIN only . 
He then left the room , and went out quietly by the front door . 
No more to night , Liddy . 
I'll sit up for master if you like , ma'am . 
I am not at all afraid of Fanny , if I may sit in my own room and have a candle . 
She was such a childlike , nesh young thing that her spirit couldn't appear to anybody if it tried , I'm quite sure . 
Oh no , no ! You go to bed . 
I'll sit up for him myself till twelve o'clock , and if he has not arrived by that time , I shall give him up and go to bed too . 
It is half past ten now . 
Oh ! is it ? Why don't you sit upstairs , ma'am ? Why don't I ? said Bathsheba , desultorily . 
It isn't worth while there's a fire here , Liddy . 
No not a word ! said Liddy , looking at the weeping woman with astonishment . 
What is it makes you cry so , ma'am has anything hurt you ? She came to Bathsheba's side with a face full of sympathy . 
No , Liddy I don't want you any more . 
I can hardly say why I have taken to crying lately I never used to cry . 
Liddy then left the parlour and closed the door . 
And within the last day or two had come these disquieting thoughts about her husband's past . 
Her wayward sentiment that evening concerning Fanny's temporary resting place had been the result of a strange complication of impulses in Bathsheba's bosom . 
In five or ten minutes there was another tap at the door . 
Liddy reappeared , and coming in a little way stood hesitating , until at length she said , Maryann has just heard something very strange , but I know it isn't true . 
And we shall be sure to know the rights of it in a day or two . 
What is it ? Oh , nothing connected with you or us , ma'am . 
That same thing you have heard . 
Bathsheba trembled from head to foot . 
I don't believe it ! she said , excitedly . 
And there's only one name written on the coffin cover . 
Bathsheba turned and looked into the fire , that Liddy might not see her face . 
Finding that her mistress was going to say no more , Liddy glided out , closed the door softly , and went to bed . 
Bathsheba's face , as she continued looking into the fire that evening , might have excited solicitousness on her account even among those who loved her least . 
When Liddy came into the room a second time the beautiful eyes which met hers had worn a listless , weary look . 
When she went out after telling the story they had expressed wretchedness in full activity . 
Bathsheba had grounds for conjecturing a connection between her own history and the dimly suspected tragedy of Fanny's end which Oak and Boldwood never for a moment credited her with possessing . 
The meeting with the lonely woman on the previous Saturday night had been unwitnessed and unspoken of . 
She suddenly felt a longing desire to speak to some one stronger than herself , and so get strength to sustain her surmised position with dignity and her lurking doubts with stoicism . 
Where could she find such a friend ? nowhere in the house . 
She was by far the coolest of the women under her roof . 
Patience and suspension of judgement for a few hours were what she wanted to learn , and there was nobody to teach her . 
Might she but go to Gabriel Oak ! but that could not be . 
What a way Oak had , she thought , of enduring things . 
Oak meditatively looked upon the horizon of circumstances without any special regard to his own standpoint in the midst . 
That was how she would wish to be . 
But then Oak was not racked by incertitude upon the inmost matter of his bosom , as she was at this moment . 
Oak knew all about Fanny that he wished to know she felt convinced of that . 
It would be an inexpressible relief . 
No further speech would need to be uttered . 
He knew her so well that no eccentricity of behaviour in her would alarm him . 
She flung a cloak round her , went to the door and opened it . 
Every blade , every twig was still . 
There was a light in one window only , and that was downstairs . 
Yes , it was Gabriel himself who was sitting up he was reading . 
At length he looked at the clock , seemed surprised at the lateness of the hour , closed his book , and arose . 
He was going to bed , she knew , and if she tapped it must be done at once . 
Alas for her resolve ! She felt she could not do it . 
Not for worlds now could she give a hint about her misery to him , much less ask him plainly for information on the cause of Fanny's death . 
She must suspect , and guess , and chafe , and bear it all alone . 
Gabriel appeared in an upper room , placed his light in the window bench , and then knelt down to pray . 
The contrast of the picture with her rebellious and agitated existence at this same time was too much for her to bear to look upon longer . 
It was not for her to make a truce with trouble by any such means . 
She must tread her giddy distracting measure to its last note , as she had begun it . 
With a swollen heart she went again up the lane , and entered her own door . 
Oh , I hope , hope it is not true that there are two of you ! . 
She went to the lumber closet for a screw driver . 
Her tears fell fast beside the unconscious pair in the coffin tears of a complicated origin , of a nature indescribable , almost indefinable except as other than those of simple sorrow . 
Assuredly their wonted fires must have lived in Fanny's ashes when events were so shaped as to chariot her hither in this natural , unobtrusive , yet effectual manner . 
The one feat alone that of dying by which a mean condition could be resolved into a grand one , Fanny had achieved . 
Fanny's face was framed in by that yellow hair of hers and there was no longer much room for doubt as to the origin of the curl owned by Troy . 
Yet even this scheme of extinction by death was but tamely copying her rival's method without the reasons which had glorified it in her rival's case . 
If she had only lived , I could have been angry and cruel towards her with some justification but to be vindictive towards a poor dead woman recoils upon myself . 
Gabriel had prayed so would she . 
She knelt beside the coffin , covered her face with her hands , and for a time the room was silent as a tomb . 
In her desire to make atonement she took flowers from a vase by the window , and began laying them around the dead girl's head . 
Bathsheba knew no other way of showing kindness to persons departed than by giving them flowers . 
She knew not how long she remained engaged thus . 
She forgot time , life , where she was , what she was doing . 
A slamming together of the coach house doors in the yard brought her to her self again . 
An instant after , the front door opened and closed , steps crossed the hall , and her husband appeared at the entrance to the room , looking in upon her . 
He beheld it all by degrees , stared in stupefaction at the scene , as if he thought it an illusion raised by some fiendish incantation . 
Bathsheba , pallid as a corpse on end , gazed back at him in the same wild way . 
His first confused idea was that somebody in the house had died . 
Well what ? said Troy , blankly . 
I must go ! I must go ! said Bathsheba , to herself more than to him . 
She came with a dilated eye towards the door , to push past him . 
What's the matter , in God's name ? who's dead ? said Troy . 
I cannot say let me go out . 
I want air ! she continued . 
But no stay , I insist ! He seized her hand , and then volition seemed to leave her , and she went off into a state of passivity . 
He , still holding her , came up the room , and thus , hand in hand , Troy and Bathsheba approached the coffin's side . 
The candle was standing on a bureau close by them , and the light slanted down , distinctly enkindling the cold features of both mother and babe . 
Troy looked in , dropped his wife's hand , knowledge of it all came over him in a lurid sheen , and he stood still . 
So still he remained that he could be imagined to have left in him no motive power whatever . 
The clashes of feeling in all directions confounded one another , produced a neutrality , and there was motion in none . 
Do you know her ? said Bathsheba , in a small enclosed echo , as from the interior of a cell . 
I do , said Troy . 
Is it she ? It is . 
He had originally stood perfectly erect . 
And now , in the well nigh congealed immobility of his frame could be discerned an incipient movement , as in the darkest night may be discerned light after a while . 
He was gradually sinking forwards . 
The lines of his features softened , and dismay modulated to illimitable sadness . 
Bathsheba was regarding him from the other side , still with parted lips and distracted eyes . 
At the sight and sound of that , to her , unendurable act , Bathsheba sprang towards him . 
All the strong feelings which had been scattered over her existence since she knew what feeling was , seemed gathered together into one pulsation now . 
The revulsion from her indignant mood a little earlier , when she had meditated upon compromised honour , forestalment , eclipse in maternity by another , was violent and entire . 
All that was forgotten in the simple and still strong attachment of wife to husband . 
She had sighed for her self completeness then , and now she cried aloud against the severance of the union she had deplored . 
Fanny's own spirit seemed to be animating her frame . 
But this was the mood of a few instants only . 
When the momentary surprise had passed , his expression changed to a silencing imperious gaze . 
I will not kiss you ! he said pushing her away . 
Had the wife now but gone no further . 
All the feeling she had been betrayed into showing she drew back to herself again by a strenuous effort of self command . 
What have you to say as your reason ? she asked her bitter voice being strangely low quite that of another woman now . 
I have to say that I have been a bad , black hearted man , he answered . 
And that this woman is your victim and I not less than she . 
Ah ! don't taunt me , madam . 
This woman is more to me , dead as she is , than ever you were , or are , or can be . 
If Satan had not tempted me with that face of yours , and those cursed coquetries , I should have married her . 
I never had another thought till you came in my way . 
Would to God that I had but it is all too late ! He turned to Fanny then . 
It was the GREEK word meaning it is finished of her union with Troy . 
You are nothing to me nothing , said Troy , heartlessly . 
A ceremony before a priest doesn't make a marriage . 
I am not morally yours . 
She waited not an instant , but turned to the door and ran out . 
CHAPTER XLIV UNDER A TREE REACTION BATHSHEBA went along the dark road , neither knowing nor caring about the direction or issue of her flight . 
The first time that she definitely noticed her position was when she reached a gate leading into a thicket over hung by some large oak and beech trees . 
She mechanically pulled some armfuls round her to keep off the breezes , and closed her eyes . 
Whether she slept or not that night Bathsheba was not clearly aware . 
A coarse throated chatter was the first sound . 
It was a sparrow just waking . 
Next Chee weeze weeze weeze ! from another retreat . 
Third Tink tink tink tink a chink ! from the hedge . 
Chuck chuck chuck ! overhead . 
Then , from the road , With my ra ta ta , and my rum tum tum ! It was a ploughboy . 
Presently he came opposite , and she believed from his voice that he was one of the boys on her own farm . 
He was followed by a shambling tramp of heavy feet , and looking through the ferns Bathsheba could just discern in the wan light of daybreak a team of her own horses . 
They stopped to drink at a pond on the other side of the way . 
She watched them flouncing into the pool , drinking , tossing up their heads , drinking again , the water dribbling from their lips in silver threads . 
There was another flounce , and they came out of the pond , and turned back again towards the farm . 
Day was just dawning , and beside its cool air and colours her heated actions and resolves of the night stood out in lurid contrast . 
There was an opening towards the east , and the glow from the as yet unrisen sun attracted her eyes thither . 
But the general aspect of the swamp was malignant . 
From its moist and poisonous coat seemed to be exhaled the essences of evil things in the earth , and in the waters under the earth . 
The fungi grew in all manner of positions from rotting leaves and tree stumps , some exhibiting to her listless gaze their clammy tops , others their oozing gills . 
Some were marked with great splotches , red as arterial blood , others were saffron yellow , and others tall and attenuated , with stems like macaroni . 
Some were leathery and of richest browns . 
There were now other footsteps to be heard along the road . 
Bathsheba's nerves were still unstrung she crouched down out of sight again , and the pedestrian came into view . 
He was a schoolboy , with a bag slung over his shoulder containing his dinner , and a hook in his hand . 
He paused by the gate , and , without looking up , continued murmuring words in tones quite loud enough to reach her ears . 
'O Lord , O Lord , O Lord , O Lord , O Lord' that I know out o' book . 
'Give us , give us , give us , give us , give us' that I know . 
'Grace that , grace that , grace that , grace that' that I know . 
Other words followed to the same effect . 
The boy was of the dunce class apparently the book was a psalter , and this was his way of learning the collect . 
By this time stupor had given place to anxiety , and anxiety began to make room for hunger and thirst . 
A form now appeared upon the rise on the other side of the swamp , half hidden by the mist , and came towards Bathsheba . 
The woman for it was a woman approached with her face askance , as if looking earnestly on all sides of her . 
Bathsheba's heart bounded with gratitude in the thought that she was not altogether deserted , and she jumped up . 
Oh , Liddy ! she said , or attempted to say but the words had only been framed by her lips there came no sound . 
She had lost her voice by exposure to the clogged atmosphere all these hours of night . 
Oh , ma'am ! I am so glad I have found you , said the girl , as soon as she saw Bathsheba . 
You can't come across , Bathsheba said in a whisper , which she vainly endeavoured to make loud enough to reach Liddy's ears . 
Liddy , not knowing this , stepped down upon the swamp , saying , as she did so , It will bear me up , I think . 
Bathsheba never forgot that transient little picture of Liddy crossing the swamp to her there in the morning light . 
Iridescent bubbles of dank subterranean breath rose from the sweating sod beside the waiting maid's feet as she trod , hissing as they burst and expanded away to join the vapoury firmament above . 
Liddy did not sink , as Bathsheba had anticipated . 
She landed safely on the other side , and looked up at the beautiful though pale and weary face of her young mistress . 
Poor thing ! said Liddy , with tears in her eyes , Do hearten yourself up a little , ma'am . 
However did I can't speak above a whisper my voice is gone for the present , said Bathsheba , hurriedly . 
I suppose the damp air from that hollow has taken it away Liddy , don't question me , mind . 
Who sent you anybody ? Nobody . 
I thought , when I found you were not at home , that something cruel had happened . 
I fancy I heard his voice late last night and so , knowing something was wrong Is he at home ? No he left just before I came out . 
Is Fanny taken away ? Not yet . 
She will soon be at nine o'clock . 
We won't go home at present , then . 
Suppose we walk about in this wood ? Liddy , without exactly understanding everything , or anything , in this episode , assented , and they walked together further among the trees . 
But you had better come in , ma'am , and have something to eat . 
You will die of a chill ! I shall not come indoors yet perhaps never . 
Shall I get you something to eat , and something else to put over your head besides that little shawl ? If you will , Liddy . 
No , said her companion , pouring out the tea . 
Bathsheba wrapped herself up and ate and drank sparingly . 
Her voice was then a little clearer , and trifling colour returned to her face . 
Now we'll walk about again , she said . 
They wandered about the wood for nearly two hours , Bathsheba replying in monosyllables to Liddy's prattle , for her mind ran on one subject , and one only . 
She interrupted with I wonder if Fanny is gone by this time ? I will go and see . 
Then they think I am in my bedroom ? Yes . 
Liddy then ventured to add You said when I first found you that you might never go home again you didn't mean it , ma'am ? No I've altered my mind . 
It is only women with no pride in them who run away from their husbands . 
I've thought of it all this morning , and I've chosen my course . 
Liddy , if ever you marry God forbid that you ever should ! you'll find yourself in a fearful situation but mind this , don't you flinch . 
Stand your ground , and be cut to pieces . 
That's what I'm going to do . 
Oh , mistress , don't talk so ! said Liddy , taking her hand but I knew you had too much sense to bide away . 
May I ask what dreadful thing it is that has happened between you and him ? You may ask but I may not tell . 
In about ten minutes they returned to the house by a circuitous route , entering at the rear . 
Bathsheba glided up the back stairs to a disused attic , and her companion followed . 
Well , I shall take up my abode here for a while . 
Will you get a fire lighted , put down a piece of carpet , and help me to make the place comfortable . 
What shall I do to pass the heavy time away ? Hemming handkerchiefs is a very good thing , said Liddy . 
Oh no , no ! I hate needlework I always did . 
Knitting ? And that , too . 
You might finish your sampler . 
Only the carnations and peacocks want filling in and then it could be framed and glazed , and hung beside your aunt's ma'am . 
Samplers are out of date horribly countrified . 
No Liddy , I'll read . 
Bring up some books not new ones . 
I haven't heart to read anything new . 
Some of your uncle's old ones , ma'am ? Yes . 
Some of those we stowed away in boxes . 
And that story of the black man , who murdered his wife Desdemona ? It is a nice dismal one that would suit you excellent just now . 
But if the others do No , they don't and I won't read dismal books . 
Why should I read dismal books , indeed ? Bring me LOVE IN A VILLAGE , and MAID OF THE MILL , and DOCTOR SYNTAX , and some volumes of the SPECTATOR . 
Bathsheba sat at the window till sunset , sometimes attempting to read , at other times watching every movement outside without much purpose , and listening without much interest to every sound . 
The sun went down almost blood red that night , and a livid cloud received its rays in the east . 
Hereabouts , at six o'clock , the young men of the village gathered , as was their custom , for a game of Prisoners' base . 
Why did the base players finish their game so suddenly ? Bathsheba inquired , the next time that Liddy entered the room . 
I think 'twas because two men came just then from Casterbridge and began putting up a grand carved tombstone , said Liddy . 
The lads went to see whose it was . 
Do you know ? Bathsheba asked . 
I don't , said Liddy . 
CHAPTER XLV TROY'S ROMANTICISM WHEN Troy's wife had left the house at the previous midnight his first act was to cover the dead from sight . 
This done he ascended the stairs , and throwing himself down upon the bed dressed as he was , he waited miserably for the morning . 
Fate had dealt grimly with him through the last four and twenty hours . 
His day had been spent in a way which varied very materially from his intentions regarding it . 
Twenty pounds having been secured from Bathsheba , he had managed to add to the sum every farthing he could muster on his own account , which had been seven pounds ten . 
With this money , twenty seven pounds ten in all , he had hastily driven from the gate that morning to keep his appointment with Fanny Robin . 
The clocks struck the hour , and no Fanny appeared . 
The quarter went , the half hour . 
A rush of recollection came upon Troy as he waited this was the second time she had broken a serious engagement with him . 
He reached the race course at two o'clock , and remained either there or in the town till nine . 
But Fanny's image , as it had appeared to him in the sombre shadows of that Saturday evening , returned to his mind , backed up by Bathsheba's reproaches . 
He trotted slowly homeward , and it was now that he was struck for the first time with a thought that Fanny had been really prevented by illness from keeping her promise . 
This time she could have made no mistake . 
He regretted that he had not remained in Casterbridge and made inquiries . 
Reaching home he quietly unharnessed the horse and came indoors , as we have seen , to the fearful shock that awaited him . 
His walk was towards the churchyard , entering which he searched around till he found a newly dug unoccupied grave the grave dug the day before for Fanny . 
The position of this having been marked , he hastened on to Casterbridge , only pausing and musing for a while at the hill whereon he had last seen Fanny alive . 
Reaching the town , Troy descended into a side street and entered a pair of gates surmounted by a board bearing the words , Lester , stone and marble mason . 
Within were lying about stones of all sizes and designs , inscribed as being sacred to the memory of unnamed persons who had not yet died . 
Troy was so unlike himself now in look , word , and deed , that the want of likeness was perceptible even to his own consciousness . 
His method of engaging himself in this business of purchasing a tomb was that of an absolutely unpractised man . 
He could not bring himself to consider , calculate , or economize . 
He waywardly wished for something , and he set about obtaining it like a child in a nursery . 
I want a good tomb , he said to the man who stood in a little office within the yard . 
I want as good a one as you can give me for twenty seven pounds . 
It was all the money he possessed . 
That sum to include everything ? Everything . 
Cutting the name , carriage to Weatherbury , and erection . 
And I want it now at once . 
We could not get anything special worked this week . 
I must have it now . 
If you would like one of these in stock it could be got ready immediately . 
Very well , said Troy , impatiently . 
Let's see what you have . 
The best I have in stock is this one , said the stone cutter , going into a shed . 
Here's a marble headstone beautifully crocketed , with medallions beneath of typical subjects here's the footstone after the same pattern , and here's the coping to enclose the grave . 
And how much ? Well , I could add the name , and put it up at Weatherbury for the sum you mention . 
Get it done to day , and I'll pay the money now . 
The man agreed , and wondered at such a mood in a visitor who wore not a shred of mourning . 
Troy then wrote the words which were to form the inscription , settled the account and went away . 
In the afternoon he came back again , and found that the lettering was almost done . 
It was quite dark when Troy came out of Casterbridge . 
Midway on his journey he met , returning in the darkness , the men and the waggon which had conveyed the tomb . 
He merely inquired if the work was done , and , on being assured that it was , passed on again . 
Troy entered Weatherbury churchyard about ten o'clock and went immediately to the corner where he had marked the vacant grave early in the morning . 
In the midst was mould , suitable for plants . 
Troy deposited his basket beside the tomb , and vanished for a few minutes . 
When he returned he carried a spade and a lantern , the light of which he directed for a few moments upon the marble , whilst he read the inscription . 
He hung his lantern on the lowest bough of the yew tree , and took from his basket flower roots of several varieties . 
Troy laid these out upon the grass , and with an impassive face set to work to plant them . 
The snowdrops were arranged in a line on the outside of the coping , the remainder within the enclosure of the grave . 
The crocuses and hyacinths were to grow in rows some of the summer flowers he placed over her head and feet , the lilies and forget me nots over her heart . 
The remainder were dispersed in the spaces between these . 
He groped along the wall and over the graves in the dark till he found himself round at the north side . 
Here he entered the porch , and , reclining upon the bench within , fell asleep . 
CHAPTER XLVI THE GURGOYLE ITS DOINGS THE tower of Weatherbury Church was a square erection of fourteenth century date , having two stone gurgoyles on each of the four faces of its parapet . 
Of these eight carved protuberances only two at this time continued to serve the purpose of their erection that of spouting the water from the lead roof within . 
There was , so to speak , that symmetry in their distortion which is less the characteristic of British than of Continental grotesques of the period . 
All the eight were different from each other . 
A beholder was convinced that nothing on earth could be more hideous than those he saw on the north side until he went round to the south . 
Of the two on this latter face , only that at the south eastern corner concerns the story . 
The lower row of teeth was quite washed away , though the upper still remained . 
Troy slept on in the porch , and the rain increased outside . 
The stream thickened in substance , and increased in power , gradually spouting further and yet further from the side of the tower . 
When the rain fell in a steady and ceaseless torrent the stream dashed downward in volumes . 
We follow its course to the ground at this point of time . 
The force of the stream had , until very lately , been received upon some loose stones spread thereabout , which had acted as a shield to the soil under the onset . 
These during the summer had been cleared from the ground , and there was now nothing to resist the down fall but the bare earth . 
For several years the stream had not spouted so far from the tower as it was doing on this night , and such a contingency had been over looked . 
The persistent torrent from the gurgoyle's jaws directed all its vengeance into the grave . 
The rich tawny mould was stirred into motion , and boiled like chocolate . 
The flowers so carefully planted by Fanny's repentant lover began to move and writhe in their bed . 
The winter violets turned slowly upside down , and became a mere mat of mud . 
Soon the snowdrop and other bulbs danced in the boiling mass like ingredients in a cauldron . 
Plants of the tufted species were loosened , rose to the surface , and floated off . 
Troy did not awake from his comfortless sleep till it was broad day . 
Not having been in bed for two nights his shoulders felt stiff his feet tender , and his head heavy . 
He remembered his position , arose , shivered , took the spade , and again went out . 
He entered the gravel path which would take him behind the tower . 
The path , instead of being stony as it had been the night before , was browned over with a thin coating of mud . 
At one place in the path he saw a tuft of stringy roots washed white and clean as a bundle of tendons . 
He picked it up surely it could not be one of the primroses he had planted ? He saw a bulb , another , and another as he advanced . 
Beyond doubt they were the crocuses . 
With a face of perplexed dismay Troy turned the corner and then beheld the wreck the stream had made . 
The pool upon the grave had soaked away into the ground , and in its place was a hollow . 
The disturbed earth was washed over the grass and pathway in the guise of the brown mud he had already seen , and it spotted the marble tombstone with the same stains . 
Nearly all the flowers were washed clean out of the ground , and they lay , roots upwards , on the spots whither they had been splashed by the stream . 
Troy's brow became heavily contracted . 
He set his teeth closely , and his compressed lips moved as those of one in great pain . 
This singular accident , by a strange confluence of emotions in him , was felt as the sharpest sting of all . 
Sanguine by nature , Troy had a power of eluding grief by simply adjourning it . 
He could put off the consideration of any particular spectre till the matter had become old and softened by time . 
The planting of flowers on Fanny's grave had been perhaps but a species of elusion of the primary grief , and now it was as if his intention had been known and circumvented . 
Almost for the first time in his life , Troy , as he stood by this dismantled grave , wished himself another man . 
This very morning the illusion completed its disappearance , and , as it were , all of a sudden , Troy hated himself . 
The suddenness was probably more apparent than real . 
He stood and mediated a miserable man . 
Whither should he go ? He that is accursed , let him be accursed still , was the pitiless anathema written in this spoliated effort of his new born solicitousness . 
A man who has spent his primal strength in journeying in one direction has not much spirit left for reversing his course . 
Troy had , since yesterday , faintly reversed his but the merest opposition had disheartened him . 
He slowly withdrew from the grave . 
He did not attempt to fill up the hole , replace the flowers , or do anything at all . 
He simply threw up his cards and forswore his game for that time and always . 
Going out of the churchyard silently and unobserved none of the villagers having yet risen he passed down some fields at the back , and emerged just as secretly upon the high road . 
Shortly afterwards he had gone from the village . 
Meanwhile , Bathsheba remained a voluntary prisoner in the attic . 
The door was kept locked , except during the entries and exits of Liddy , for whom a bed had been arranged in a small adjoining room . 
They looked curiously at the phenomenon for a time , until Liddy was sent to bed . 
Bathsheba did not sleep very heavily that night . 
Liddy knocked at eight o'clock , and Bathsheba un locked the door . 
What a heavy rain we've had in the night , ma'am ! said Liddy , when her inquiries about breakfast had been made . 
Did you hear the strange noise from the church yard ? I heard one strange noise . 
I've been thinking it must have been the water from the tower spouts . 
Well , that's what the shepherd was saying , ma'am . 
He's now gone on to see . 
Oh ! Gabriel has been here this morning ! Only just looked in in passing quite in his old way , which I thought he had left off lately . 
But the tower spouts used to spatter on the stones , and we are puzzled , for this was like the boiling of a pot . 
Not being able to read , think , or work , Bathsheba asked Liddy to stay and breakfast with her . 
The tongue of the more childish woman still ran upon recent events . 
Are you going across to the church , ma'am ? she asked . 
Not that I know of , said Bathsheba . 
I thought you might like to go and see where they have put Fanny . 
The trees hide the place from your window . 
Bathsheba had all sorts of dreads about meeting her husband . 
Has Mr. Troy been in to night ? she said No , ma'am I think he's gone to Budmouth . 
Budmouth ! The sound of the word carried with it a much diminished perspective of him and his deeds there were thirteen miles interval betwixt them now . 
Bathsheba had reached a stage at which people cease to have any appreciative regard for public opinion . 
What makes you think he has gone there ? she said . 
Laban Tall saw him on the Budmouth road this morning before breakfast . 
So when breakfast was over , she put on her bonnet , and took a direction towards the church . 
It was nine o'clock , and the men having returned to work again from their first meal , she was not likely to meet many of them in the road . 
She had been unable to overcome an impression that some connection existed between her rival and the light through the trees . 
Bathsheba skirted the buttress , and beheld the hole and the tomb , its delicately veined surface splashed and stained just as Troy had seen it and left it two hours earlier . 
On the other side of the scene stood Gabriel . 
His eyes , too , were fixed on the tomb , and her arrival having been noiseless , she had not as yet attracted his attention . 
Then her eye followed Oak's , and she read the words with which the inscription opened Erected by Francis Troy in Beloved Memory of Fanny Robin . 
Oak saw her , and his first act was to gaze inquiringly and learn how she received this knowledge of the authorship of the work , which to himself had caused considerable astonishment . 
But such discoveries did not much affect her now . 
The local tower and churchyard do not answer precisely to the foregoing description . 
CHAPTER XLVII ADVENTURES BY THE SHORE TROY wandered along towards the south . 
The sad accessories of Fanny's end confronted him as vivid pictures which threatened to be indelible , and made life in Bathsheba's house intolerable . 
Throughout the length of this narrow and irksome inclined plane not a sign of life was visible on this garish afternoon . 
Troy toiled up the road with a languor and depression greater than any he had experienced for many a day and year before . 
The air was warm and muggy , and the top seemed to recede as he approached . 
At last he reached the summit , and a wide and novel prospect burst upon him with an effect almost like that of the Pacific upon Balboa's gaze . 
Nothing moved in sky , land , or sea , except a frill of milkwhite foam along the nearer angles of the shore , shreds of which licked the contiguous stones like tongues . 
He descended and came to a small basin of sea enclosed by the cliffs . 
Troy's nature freshened within him he thought he would rest and bathe here before going farther . 
He undressed and plunged in . 
Unfortunately for Troy a current unknown to him existed outside , which , unimportant to craft of any burden , was awkward for a swimmer who might be taken in it unawares . 
Troy found himself carried to the left and then round in a swoop out to sea . 
He now recollected the place and its sinister character . 
All Troy's vigour spasmodically revived to prolong the struggle yet a little further . 
Swimming with his right arm , he held up his left to hail them , splashing upon the waves , and shouting with all his might . 
They formed part of a brig's crew , and had come ashore for sand . 
She belonged to him the certainties of that position were so well defined , and the reasonable probabilities of its issue so bounded that she could not speculate on contingencies . 
Soon , or later and that not very late her husband would be home again . 
And then the days of their tenancy of the Upper Farm would be numbered . 
Once out of the farm , the approach of poverty would be sure . 
Hence Bathsheba lived in a perception that her purposes were broken off . 
The first Saturday after Troy's departure she went to Casterbridge alone , a journey she had not before taken since her marriage . 
Bathsheba's ears were keen as those of any wild animal , and she distinctly heard what the speaker said , though her back was towards him . 
I am looking for Mrs. Troy . 
Is that she there ? Yes that's the young lady , I believe , said the the person addressed . 
I have some awkward news to break to her . 
As if endowed with the spirit of prophecy , Bathsheba gasped out , No , it is not true it cannot be true ! Then she said and heard no more . 
The ice of self command which had latterly gathered over her was broken , and the currents burst forth again , and over whelmed her . 
A darkness came into her eyes , and she fell . 
But not to the ground . 
What is it ? said Boldwood , looking up at the bringer of the big news , as he supported her . 
Her husband was drowned this week while bathing in Lulwind Cove . 
A coastguardsman found his clothes , and brought them into Budmouth yesterday . 
Thereupon a strange fire lighted up Boldwood's eye , and his face flushed with the suppressed excitement of an unutterable thought . 
Everybody's glance was now centred upon him and the unconscious Bathsheba . 
Here he passed with her under the archway into a private room and by the time he had deposited so lothly the precious burden upon a sofa , Bathsheba had opened her eyes . 
Remembering all that had occurred , she murmured , I want to go home ! Boldwood left the room . 
He stood for a moment in the passage to recover his senses . 
The experience had been too much for his consciousness to keep up with , and now that he had grasped it it had gone again . 
For those few heavenly , golden moments she had been in his arms . 
What did it matter about her not knowing it ? She had been close to his breast he had been close to hers . 
He started onward again , and sending a woman to her , went out to ascertain all the facts of the case . 
These appeared to be limited to what he had already heard . 
He then ordered her horse to be put into the gig , and when all was ready returned to inform her . 
These proposals Bathsheba gently declined , and the farmer at once departed . 
About half an hour later she invigorated herself by an effort , and took her seat and the reins as usual in external appearance much as if nothing had happened . 
She went out of the town by a tortuous back street , and drove slowly along , unconscious of the road and the scene . 
The first shades of evening were showing themselves when Bathsheba reached home , where , silently alighting and leaving the horse in the hands of the boy , she proceeded at once upstairs . 
Liddy met her on the landing . 
The news had preceded Bathsheba to Weatherbury by half an hour , and Liddy looked inquiringly into her mistress's face . 
Bathsheba had nothing to say . 
She entered her bedroom and sat by the window , and thought and thought till night enveloped her , and the extreme lines only of her shape were visible . 
Somebody came to the door , knocked , and opened it . 
Well , what is it , Liddy ? she said . 
I was thinking there must be something got for you to wear , said Liddy , with hesitation . 
What do you mean ? Mourning . 
No , no , no , said Bathsheba , hurriedly . 
But I suppose there must be something done for poor Not at present , I think . 
Why not , ma'am ? Because he's still alive . 
How do you know that ? said Liddy , amazed . 
I am perfectly convinced that he is still alive ! Bathsheba remained firm in this opinion till Monday , when two circumstances conjoined to shake it . 
In this he stated that he was passing over the cliff on the remoter side of the cove just as the sun was setting . 
He drifted behind a projection of the coast , and Mr. Barker followed along the shore in the same direction . 
But by the time that he could reach an elevation sufficiently great to command a view of the sea beyond , dusk had set in , and nothing further was to be seen . 
Then Bathsheba said to herself that others were assured in their opinion strange that she should not be . 
A strange reflection occurred to her , causing her face to flush . 
Suppose that Troy had followed Fanny into another world . 
She opened the case as he had opened it before her a week ago . 
There was the little coil of pale hair which had been as the fuze to this great explosion . 
He was hers and she was his they should be gone together , she said . 
I am nothing to either of them , and why should I keep her hair ? She took it in her hand , and held it over the fire . 
No I'll not burn it I'll keep it in memory of her , poor thing ! she added , snatching back her hand . 
Bathsheba , having previously been living in a state of suspended feeling which was not suspense , now lived in a mood of quietude which was not precisely peacefulness . 
Boldwood lived secluded and inactive . 
Much of his wheat and all his barley of that season had been spoilt by the rain . 
It sprouted , grew into intricate mats , and was ultimately thrown to the pigs in armfuls . 
The sight of the pigs turning in disgust from the rotten ears seemed to arouse Boldwood , and he one evening sent for Oak . 
Gabriel's malignant star was assuredly setting fast . 
Bathsheba , when she learnt of this proposal for Oak was obliged to consult her at first languidly objected . 
She considered that the two farms together were too extensive for the observation of one man . 
Boldwood did not directly communicate with her during these negotiations , only speaking to Oak , who was the go between throughout . 
Out of this there arose , during the spring succeeding , a talk in the parish that Gabriel Oak was feathering his nest fast . 
Whatever d'ye think , said Susan Tall , Gable Oak is coming it quite the dand . 
This fevered hope had grown up again like a grain of mustard seed during the quiet which followed the hasty conjecture that Troy was drowned . 
He nourished it fearfully , and almost shunned the contemplation of it in earnest , lest facts should reveal the wildness of the dream . 
How long he might have to wait he had not yet closely considered . 
To the eyes of the middle aged , Bathsheba was perhaps additionally charming just now . 
This occurred in the middle of the haymaking , and Boldwood contrived to be near Liddy who was assisting in the fields . 
I am glad to see you out of doors , Lydia , he said pleasantly She simpered , and wondered in her heart why he should speak so frankly to her . 
I hope Mrs. Troy is quite well after her long absence , he continued , in a manner expressing that the coldest hearted neighbour could scarcely say less about her . 
She is quite well , sir . 
And cheerful , I suppose . 
Fearful , did you say ? Oh no . 
I merely said she was cheerful . 
Tells you all her affairs ? No , sir . 
Some of them ? Yes , sir . 
Mrs. Troy puts much confidence in you , Lydia , and very wisely , perhaps . 
I've been with her all through her troubles , and was with her at the time of Mr. Troy's going and all . 
And if she were to marry again I expect I should bide with her . 
She promises that you shall quite natural , said the strategic lover , throbbing throughout him at the presumption which Liddy's words appeared to warrant that his darling had thought of re marriage . 
No she doesn't promise it exactly . 
I merely judge on my own account . 
Yes , yes , I understand . 
When she alludes to the possibility of marrying again , you conclude She never do allude to it , sir , said Liddy , thinking how very stupid Mr. Boldwood was getting . 
Of course not , he returned hastily , his hope falling again . 
You needn't take quite such long reaches with your rake , Lydia short and quick ones are best . 
Well , perhaps , as she is absolute mistress again now , it is wise of her to resolve never to give up her freedom . 
Ah , six years from the present time . 
She might marry at once in every reasonable person's opinion , whatever the lawyers may say to the contrary . 
Have you been to ask them ? said Liddy , innocently . 
Not I , said Boldwood , growing red . 
Liddy , you needn't stay here a minute later than you wish , so Mr. Oak says . 
I am now going on a little farther . 
He went away vexed with himself , and ashamed of having for this one time in his life done anything which could be called underhand . 
But he had , after all , lighted upon one fact by way of repayment . 
It was a singularly fresh and fascinating fact , and though not without its sadness it was pertinent and real . 
In little more than six years from this time Bathsheba might certainly marry him . 
This pleasant notion was now continually in his mind . 
He would annihilate the six years of his life as if they were minutes so little did he value his time on earth beside her love . 
He would let her see , all those six years of intangible ethereal courtship , how little care he had for anything but as it bore upon the consummation . 
Meanwhile the early and the late summer brought round the week in which Greenhill Fair was held . 
This fair was frequently attended by the folk of Weatherbury . 
A few permanent erections dotted the spot , but the majority of visitors patronized canvas alone for resting and feeding under during the time of their sojourn here . 
Several of the sheep would get worn and lame , and occasionally a lambing occurred on the road . 
The Weatherbury Farms , however , were no such long distance from the hill , and those arrangements were not necessary in their case . 
These gradually converged upon the base of the hill , and the flocks became individually visible , climbing the serpentine ways which led to the top . 
The great mass of sheep in the fair consisted of South Downs and the old Wessex horned breeds , to the latter class Bathsheba's and Farmer Boldwood's mainly belonged . 
These filed in about nine o'clock , their vermiculated horns lopping gracefully on each side of their cheeks in geometrically perfect spirals , a small pink and white ear nestling under each horn . 
Before and behind came other varieties , perfect leopards as to the full rich substance of their coats , and only lacking the spots . 
But the most picturesque by far was a small flock of Exmoors , which chanced to be there this year . 
Their pied faces and legs , dark and heavy horns , tresses of wool hanging round their swarthy foreheads , quite relieved the monotony of the flocks in that quarter . 
Alleys for pedestrians intersected the pens , which soon became crowded with buyers and sellers from far and near . 
In another part of the hill an altogether different scene began to force itself upon the eye towards midday . 
A circular tent , of exceptional newness and size , was in course of erection here . 
The Royal Hippodrome Performance of Turpin's Ride to York and the Death of Black Bess , replied the man promptly , without turning his eyes or leaving off trying . 
That's the great ruffen pushing me ! screamed a woman in front of Jan over her shoulder at him when the rush was at its fiercest . 
There was a silence then the drums and trumpets again sent forth their echoing notes . 
The crowd was again ecstasied , and gave another lurch in which Coggan and Poorgrass were again thrust by those behind upon the women in front . 
Oh that helpless feymels should be at the mercy of such ruffens ! exclaimed one of these ladies again , as she swayed like a reed shaken by the wind . 
Now , said Coggan , appealing in an earnest voice to the public at large as it stood clustered about his shoulder blades . 
They might get their men to murder us , for I think by the shine of their eyes that they be a sinful form of womankind . 
At the rear of the large tent there were two small dressing tents . 
Troy's appearance in this position may be briefly accounted for . 
The brig aboard which he was taken in Budmouth Roads was about to start on a voyage , though somewhat short of hands . 
Troy read the articles and joined , but before they sailed a boat was despatched across the bay to Lulwind cove as he had half expected , his clothes were gone . 
He ultimately worked his passage to the United States , where he made a precarious living in various towns as Professor of Gymnastics , Sword Exercise , Fencing , and Pugilism . 
A few months were sufficient to give him a distaste for this kind of life . 
There was ever present , too , the idea that he could claim a home and its comforts did he but chose to return to England and Weatherbury Farm . 
Whether Bathsheba thought him dead was a frequent subject of curious conjecture . 
To England he did return at last but the fact of drawing nearer to Weatherbury abstracted its fascinations , and his intention to enter his old groove at the place became modified . 
At this time the July preceding the September in which we find at Greenhill Fair he fell in with a travelling circus which was performing in the outskirts of a northern town . 
Troy was not greatly elated by the appreciative spirit in which he was undoubtedly treated , but he thought the engagement might afford him a few weeks for consideration . 
It was thus carelessly , and without having formed any definite plan for the future , that Troy found himself at Greenhill Fair with the rest of the company on this day . 
And now the mild autumn sun got lower , and in front of the pavilion the following incident had taken place . 
This particular show was by far the largest and grandest in the fair , a horde of little shows grouping themselves under its shade like chickens around a hen . 
I hope the sheep have done well to day , Mrs. Troy ? he said , nervously . 
Oh yes , thank you , said Bathsheba , colour springing up in the centre of her cheeks . 
I was fortunate enough to sell them all just as we got upon the hill , so we hadn't to pen at all . 
And now you are entirely at leisure ? Yes , except that I have to see one more dealer in two hours' time otherwise I should be going home . 
He was looking at this large tent and the announcement . 
Have you ever seen the play of Turpin's Ride to York ? Turpin was a real man , was he not ? Oh yes , perfectly true all of it . 
Indeed , I think I've heard Jan Coggan say that a relation of his knew Tom King , Turpin's friend , quite well . 
Coggan is rather given to strange stories connected with his relations , we must remember . 
I hope they can all be believed . 
Yes , yes we know Coggan . 
But Turpin is true enough . 
You have never seen it played , I suppose ? Never . 
I was not allowed to go into these places when I was young . 
Hark ! What's that prancing ? How they shout ! Black Bess just started off , I suppose . 
Perceiving that she hesitated , he added , I myself shall not stay to see it I've seen it before . 
Now Bathsheba did care a little to see the show , and had only withheld her feet from the ladder because she feared to go in alone . 
And so a short time after this Bathsheba appeared in the tent with Boldwood at her elbow , who , taking her to a reserved seat , again withdrew . 
In a few minutes she noticed the fat red nape of Coggan's neck among those standing just below her , and Joseph Poorgrass's saintly profile a little further on . 
The interior was shadowy with a peculiar shade . 
He started back in utter confusion , for although his disguise effectually concealed his personality , he instantly felt that she would be sure to recognize his voice . 
He had several times during the day thought of the possibility of some Weatherbury person or other appearing and recognizing him but he had taken the risk carelessly . 
If they see me , let them , he had said . 
She looked so charming and fair that his cool mood about Weatherbury people was changed . 
He had not expected her to exercise this power over him in the twinkling of an eye . 
Should he go on , and care nothing ? He could not bring himself to do that . 
He actually blushed at the thought , and was vexed beyond measure that his sentiments of dislike towards Weatherbury should have led him to dally about the country in this way . 
But Troy was never more clever than when absolutely at his wit's end . 
Here's the devil to pay ! said Troy . 
How's that ? Why , there's a blackguard creditor in the tent I don't want to see , who'll discover me and nab me as sure as Satan if I open my mouth . 
What's to be done ? You must appear now , I think . 
But the play must proceed . 
Do you give out that Turpin has got a bad cold , and can't speak his part , but that he'll perform it just the same without speaking . 
The proprietor shook his head . 
Anyhow , play or no play , I won't open my mouth , said Troy , firmly . 
Very well , then let me see . 
I tell you how we'll manage , said the other , who perhaps felt it would be extremely awkward to offend his leading man just at this time . 
They'll never find out that the speeches are omitted . 
If , as some thinkers hold , immortality consists in being enshrined in others' memories , then did Black Bess become immortal that day if she never had done so before . 
Nevertheless , he was relieved when it was got through . 
There a second performance in the evening , and the tent was lighted up . 
Troy hastily shifted his position , after having recognized in the scrutineer the knavish baliff Pennyways , his wife's sworn enemy , who still hung about the outskirts of Weatherbury . 
At first Troy resolved to take no notice and abide by circumstances . 
That he had been recognized by this man was highly probable yet there was room for a doubt . 
In this dilemma Troy at once went out to reconnoitre . 
It occurred to him that to find Pennyways , and make a friend of him if possible , would be a very wise act . 
He had put on a thick beard borrowed from the establishment , and in this he wandered about the fair field . 
It was now almost dark , and respectable people were getting their carts and gigs ready to go home . 
The largest refreshment booth in the fair was provided by an innkeeper from a neighbouring town . 
being a substantial man of high repute for catering through all the country round . 
He could see nothing of Pennyways , but he soon discerned Bathsheba through an opening into the reserved space at the further end . 
Troy thereupon retreated , went round the tent into the darkness , and listened . 
He could hear Bathsheba's voice immediately inside the canvas she was conversing with a man . 
A warmth overspread his face surely she was not so unprincipled as to flirt in a fair ! He wondered if , then , she reckoned upon his death as an absolute certainty . 
Close to this he placed his face , withdrawing it again in a movement of surprise for his eye had been within twelve inches of the top of Bathsheba's head . 
It was too near to be convenient . 
Troy took in the scene completely now . 
Troy found unexpected chords of feeling to be stirred again within him as they had been stirred earlier in the day . 
She was handsome as ever , and she was his . 
It was some minutes before he could counteract his sudden wish to go in , and claim her . 
Then he thought how the proud girl who had always looked down upon him even whilst it was to love him , would hate him on discovering him to be a strolling player . 
He would be nicknamed Turpin as long as he lived . 
Assuredly before he could claim her these few past months of his existence must be entirely blotted out . 
Shall I get you another cup before you start , ma'am ? said Farmer Boldwood . 
Thank you , said Bathsheba . 
But I must be going at once . 
It was great neglect in that man to keep me waiting here till so late . 
I should have gone two hours ago , if it had not been for him . 
I had no idea of coming in here but there's nothing so refreshing as a cup of tea , though I should never have got one if you hadn't helped me . 
Troy scrutinized her cheek as lit by the candles , and watched each varying shade thereon , and the white shell like sinuosities of her little ear . 
She took out her purse and was insisting to Boldwood on paying for her tea for herself , when at this moment Pennyways entered the tent . 
Troy trembled here was his scheme for respectability endangered at once . 
Excuse me , ma'am , said Pennyways I've some private information for your ear alone . 
I cannot hear it now , she said , coldly . 
I'll write it down , said Pennyways , confidently . 
He stooped over the table , pulled a leaf from a warped pocket book , and wrote upon the paper , in a round hand YOUR HUSBAND IS HERE . 
WHO'S THE FOOL NOW ? This he folded small , and handed towards her . 
Bathsheba would not read it she would not even put out her hand to take it . 
Pennyways , then , with a laugh of derision , tossed it into her lap , and , turning away , left her . 
Nothing that he could think of could be done to check the exposure . 
Curse my luck ! he whispered , and added imprecations which rustled in the gloom like a pestilent wind . 
Meanwhile Boldwood said , taking up the note from her lap Don't you wish to read it , Mrs. Troy ? If not , I'll destroy it . 
Oh , well , said Bathsheba , carelessly , perhaps it is unjust not to read it but I can guess what it is about . 
He wants me to recommend him , or it is to tell me of some little scandal or another connected with my work people . 
Bathsheba held the note in her right hand . 
The moment had come for saving his game , and Troy impulsively felt that he would play the card . 
His object was now to get to Pennyways , and prevent a repetition of the announcement until such time as he should choose . 
Troy reached the tent door , and standing among the groups there gathered , looked anxiously for Pennyways , evidently not wishing to make himself prominent by inquiring for him . 
One or two men were speaking of a daring attempt that had just been made to rob a young lady by lifting the canvas of the tent beside her . 
His chagrin and disappointment at discovering its worthlessness would be a good joke , it was said . 
Troy glided up to him , beckoned , and whispered a few words and with a mutual glance of concurrence the two men went into the night together . 
at the refreshment tent , she found it impossible to refuse his offer to ride on horseback beside her as escort . 
It had grown twilight before she was aware , but Boldwood assured her that there was no cause for uneasiness , as the moon would be up in half an hour . 
Boldwood mounted his horse , and followed in close attendance behind . 
They soon passed the merry stragglers in the immediate vicinity of the hill , traversed Kingsbere , and got upon the high road . 
The keen instincts of Bathsheba had perceived that the farmer's staunch devotion to herself was still un diminished , and she sympathized deeply . 
He soon found an excuse for advancing from his position in the rear , and rode close by her side . 
Not absolutely proved , perhaps , but it was proved circumstantially . 
A man saw him drowning , too . 
No reasonable person has any doubt of his death nor have you , ma'am , I should imagine . 
I have none now , or I should have acted differently , she said , gently . 
I certainly , at first , had a strange uaccountable feeling that he could not have perished , but I have been able to explain that in several ways since . 
But though I am fully persuaded that I shall see him no more , I am far from thinking of marriage with another . 
I should be very contemptible to indulge in such a thought . 
They were silent now awhile , and having struck into an unfrequented track across a common , the creaks of Boldwood's saddle and gig springs were all the sounds to be heard . 
Do you remember when I carried you fainting in my arms into the King's Arms , in Casterbridge ? Every dog has his day that was mine . 
I know I know it all , she said , hurriedly . 
I , for one , shall never cease regretting that events so fell out as to deny you to me . 
I , too , am very sorry , she said , and then checked herself . 
But , of course , that's nothing . 
I did and respected you , too . 
Do you now ? Yes . 
Which ? How do you mean which ? Do you like me , or do you respect me ? I don't know at least , I cannot tell you . 
It is difficult for a woman to define her feelings in language which is chiefly made by men to express theirs . 
My treatment of you was thoughtless , inexcusable , wicked ! I shall eternally regret it . 
But that was not possible . 
Don't blame yourself you were not so far in the wrong as you suppose . 
I shouldn't yet , at any rate . 
But you might at some future time of your life ? Oh yes , I might at some time . 
Yes , yes I have found that in my own experience . 
Now listen once more , Boldwood pleaded . 
If I wait that time , will you marry me ? You own that you owe me amends let that be your way of making them . 
Perhaps it is not proper , and I ought not to allow it . 
My husband may be living , as I said . 
Of course , I'll drop the subject if you wish . 
But propriety has nothing to do with reasons . 
I am a middle aged man , willing to protect you for the remainder of our lives . 
On your side , at least , there is no passion or blamable haste on mine , perhaps , there is . 
It was a simple physical fear the weak of the strong there was no emotional aversion or inner repugnance . 
Now , this time I know you will keep your word . 
That's why I hesitate to give it . 
But do give it ! Remember the past , and be kind . 
But soon is perhaps never ? Oh no , it is not ! I mean soon . 
Christmas ! He said nothing further till he added Well , I'll say no more to you about it till that time . 
When the weeks intervening between the night of this conversation and Christmas day began perceptibly to diminish , her anxiety and perplexity increased . 
One day she was led by an accident into an oddly confidential dialogue with Gabriel about her difficulty . 
It afforded her a little relief of a dull and cheerless kind . 
They were auditing accounts , and something occurred in the course of their labours which led Oak to say , speaking of Boldwood , He'll never forget you , ma'am , never . 
Really , do ye ? said Gabriel , gravely . 
His career depends entirely upon my treatment of him . 
His natural manner has always been dark and strange , you know . 
But since the case is so sad and oddlike , why don't ye give the conditional promise ? I think I would . 
Now , isn't it preposterous , Gabriel ? However he came to dream of it , I cannot think . 
But is it wrong ? You know you are older than I. Eight years older , ma'am . 
Love is an utterly bygone , sorry , worn out , miserable thing with me for him or any one else . 
Well , your want of love seems to me the one thing that takes away harm from such an agreement with him . 
The real sin , ma'am in my mind , lies in thinking of ever wedding wi' a man you don't love honest and true . 
That I'm willing to pay the penalty of , said Bathsheba , firmly . 
You know , Gabriel , this is what I cannot get off my conscience that I once seriously injured him in sheer idleness . 
If I had never played a trick upon him , he would never have wanted to marry me . 
Oh if I could only pay some heavy damages in money to him for the harm I did , and so get the sin off my soul that way ! . 
When a rake gambles away his expectations , the fact that it is an inconvenient debt doesn't make him the less liable . 
Yes I've long ceased to doubt that . 
I well know what would have brought him back long before this time if he had lived . 
Well , then , in a religious sense you will be as free to THINK o' marrying again as any real widow of one year's standing . 
So I like the parson's opinion on law , the lawyer's on doctoring , the doctor's on business , and my business man's that is , yours on morals . 
And on love My own . 
I'm afraid there's a hitch in that argument , said Oak , with a grave smile . 
She did not reply at once , and then saying , Good evening , Mr. Oak . 
She had spoken frankly , and neither asked nor expected any reply from Gabriel more satisfactory than that she had obtained . 
Yet in the centremost parts of her complicated heart there existed at this minute a little pang of disappointment , for a reason she would not allow herself to recognize . 
Oak had not once wished her free that he might marry her himself had not once said , I could wait for you as well as he . 
That was the insect sting . 
Not that she would have listened to any such hypothesis . 
It would have seemed pretty and sweet , if no more and then she would have shown how kind and inoffensive a woman's No can sometimes be . 
But to give such cool advice the very advice she had asked for it ruffled our heroine all the afternoon . 
CHAPTER LII CONVERGING COURSES I CHRISTMAS EVE came , and a party that Boldwood was to give in the evening was the great subject of talk in Weatherbury . 
It was not that the rarity of Christmas parties in the parish made this one a wonder , but that Boldwood should be the giver . 
That the party was intended to be a truly jovial one there was no room for doubt . 
A large bough of mistletoe had been brought from the woods that day , and suspended in the hall of the bachelor's home . 
Holly and ivy had followed in armfuls . 
As it grew later the fire was made up in the large long hall into which the staircase descended , and all encumbrances were cleared out for dancing . 
In spite of all this , the spirit of revelry was wanting in the atmosphere of the house . 
Such a thing had never been attempted before by its owner , and it was now done as by a wrench . 
II Bathsheba was at this time in her room , dressing for the event . 
She had called for candles , and Liddy entered and placed one on each side of her mistress's glass . 
Don't go away , Liddy , said Bathsheba , almost timidly . 
I am foolishly agitated I cannot tell why . 
I wish I had not been obliged to go to this dance but there's no escaping now . 
But I would go now , said Liddy , who was going with her for Boldwood had been indiscriminate in his invitations . 
Yes , I shall make my appearance , of course , said Bathsheba . 
But I am THE CAUSE of the party , and that upsets me ! Don't tell , Liddy . 
You the cause of it , ma'am ? Yes . 
I am the reason of the party I. If it had not been for me , there would never have been one . 
I can't explain any more there's no more to be explained . 
I wish I had never seen Weatherbury . 
That's wicked of you to wish to be worse off than you are . 
I have never been free from trouble since I have lived here , and this party is likely to bring me more . 
Now , fetch my black silk dress , and see how it sits upon me . 
But you will leave off that , surely , ma'am ? You have been a widowlady fourteen months , and ought to brighten up a little on such a night as this . 
The party doesn't suit me a bit but never mind , stay and help to finish me off . 
III Boldwood was dressing also at this hour . 
A tailor from Casterbridge was with him , assisting him in the operation of trying on a new coat that had just been brought home . 
Never had Boldwood been so fastidious , unreasonable about the fit , and generally difficult to please . 
Boldwood at last expressed himself nearly satisfied , and paid the bill , the tailor passing out of the door just as Oak came in to report progress for the day . 
Oh , Oak , said Boldwood . 
I shall of course see you here to night . 
I am determined that neither expense nor trouble shall be spared . 
I'll try to be here , sir , though perhaps it may not be very early , said Gabriel , quietly . 
I am glad indeed to see such a change in 'ee from what it used to be . 
Still this may be absurd I feel that it is absurd . 
Perhaps my day is dawning at last . 
I hope it 'ill be a long and a fair one . 
Yet perhaps my cheerful mess rests on a slender hope . 
And yet I trust my hope . 
It is faith , not hope . 
I think this time I reckon with my host . 
Oak , my hands are a little shaky , or something I can't tie this neckerchief properly . 
Perhaps you will tie it for me . 
The fact is , I have not been well lately , you know . 
I am sorry to hear that , sir . 
I want it done as well as you can , please . 
Is there any late knot in fashion , Oak ? I don't know , sir , said Oak . 
His tone had sunk to sadness . 
Boldwood approached Gabriel , and as Oak tied the neckerchief the farmer went on feverishly Does a woman keep her promise , Gabriel ? If it is not inconvenient to her she may . 
Or rather an implied promise . 
I won't answer for her implying , said Oak , with faint bitterness . 
That's a word as full o' holes as a sieve with them . 
Oak , don't talk like that . 
You have got quite cynical lately how is it ? We seem to have shifted our positions I have become the young and hopeful man , and you the old and unbelieving one . 
I am afeard you honour my understanding too much . 
However , she may keep such a promise , if it is made with an honest meaning to repair a wrong . 
It has not gone far yet , but I think it will soon yes , I know it will , he said , in an impulsive whisper . 
It may be merely this legal reason which influences her , or it may be a religious one , but she is reluctant to talk on the point . 
Yet she has promised implied that she will ratify an engagement to night . 
Seven years , murmured Oak . 
No , no it's no such thing ! he said , with impatience . 
Five years , nine months , and a few days . 
Fifteen months nearly have passed since he vanished , and is there anything so wonderful in an engagement of little more than five years ? It seems long in a forward view . 
Don't build too much upon such promises , sir . 
Remember , you have once be'n deceived . 
Her meaning may be good but there she's young yet . 
Deceived ? Never ! said Boldwood , vehemently . 
IV Troy was sitting in a corner of The White Hart tavern at Casterbridge , smoking and drinking a steaming mixture from a glass . 
A knock was given at the door , and Pennyways entered . 
Well , have you seen him ? Troy inquired , pointing to a chair . 
Boldwood ? No Lawyer Long . 
I went there first , too . 
'Tis rather , I suppose . 
Yet I don't see that , because a man appears to be drowned and was not , he should be liable for anything . 
I shan't ask any lawyer not I. But that's not it , exactly . 
There's a deal of feeling on his side seemingly , but I don't answer for her . 
I didn't know a word about any such thing till yesterday , and all I heard then was that she was gwine to the party at his house to night . 
This is the first time she has ever gone there , they say . 
I'm not so sure of that . 
She's a handsome woman , Pennyways , is she not ? Own that you never saw a finer or more splendid creature in your life . 
Upon my honour , when I set eyes upon her that day I wondered what I could have been made of to be able to leave her by herself so long . 
And then I was hampered with that bothering show , which I'm free of at last , thank the stars . 
Ay , and there were the fellers round her wringing down the cheese and bustling about and saying , Ware o' the pommy , ma'am 'twill spoil yer gown . 
Never mind me , says she . 
Then Gabe brought her some of the new cider , and she must needs go drinking it through a strawmote , and not in a nateral way at all . 
Liddy , says she , bring indoors a few gallons , and I'll make some cider wine . 
Oak is head man still , isn't he ? Yes , 'a b'lieve . 
And at Little Weatherbury Farm too . 
'Twill puzzle him to manage her , or any other man of his compass ! I don't know about that . 
She can't do without him , and knowing it well he's pretty independent . 
, nor anybody else shall hurt you . 
But all this wants looking into , I perceive . 
What with one thing and another , I see that my work is well cut out for me . 
V How do I look to night , Liddy ? said Bathsheba , giving a final adjustment to her dress before leaving the glass . 
I never saw you look so well before . 
Everybody will think that I am setting myself to captivate Mr. Boldwood , I suppose , she murmured . 
At least they'll say so . 
Can't my hair be brushed down a little flatter ? I dread going yet I dread the risk of wounding him by staying away . 
Anyhow , ma'am , you can't well be dressed plainer than you are , unless you go in sackcloth at once . 
'Tis your excitement is what makes you look so noticeable to night . 
I don't know what's the matter , I feel wretched at one time , and buoyant at another . 
I wish I could have continued quite alone as I have been for the last year or so , with no hopes and no fears , and no pleasure and no grief . 
Mind , I won't hear joking on any such matter . 
Do you hear ? I beg pardon , ma'am . 
But knowing what rum things we women be , I just said however , I won't speak of it again . 
That share is small , too small , considering how little I attend to business now , and how much time and thought you give to it . 
Well , since the world is brightening for me , I want to show my sense of it by increasing your proportion in the partnership . 
I'll make a memorandum of the arrangement which struck me as likely to be convenient , for I haven't time to talk about it now and then we'll discuss it at our leisure . 
My intention is ultimately to retire from the management altogether , and until you can take all the expenditure upon your shoulders , I'll be a sleeping partner in the stock . 
Then , if I marry her and I hope I feel I shall , why Pray don't speak of it , sir , said Oak , hastily . 
We don't know what may happen . 
So many upsets may befall 'ee . 
There's many a slip , as they say and I would advise you I know you'll pardon me this once not to be TOO SURE . 
I know , I know . 
O that's not necessary , thank 'ee , said Oak , hurriedly . 
I must get used to such as that other men have , and so shall I. Oak then left him . 
He was uneasy on Boldwood's account , for he saw anew that this constant passion of the farmer made him not the man he once had been . 
He looked out of the window , and regarded the dim outline of the trees upon the sky , and the twilight deepening to darkness . 
But he lingered to open the cover and take a momentary glance inside . 
It contained a woman's finger ring , set all the way round with small diamonds , and from its appearance had evidently been recently purchased . 
The noise of wheels at the front of the house became audible . 
Boldwood closed the box , stowed it away carefully in his pocket , and went out upon the landing . 
The old man who was his indoor factotum came at the same moment to the foot of the stairs . 
They be coming , sir lots of 'em a foot and a driving ! I was coming down this moment . 
Those wheels I heard is it Mrs. Troy ? No , sir 'tis not she yet . 
VII How does this cover me ? said Troy to Pennyways , Nobody would recognize me now , I'm sure . 
Pennyways snuffed the candle , and then looked up and deliberately inspected Troy . 
You've made up your mind to go then ? he said . 
Made up my mind ? Yes of course I have . 
Why not write to her ? 'Tis a very queer corner that you have got into , sergeant . 
You see all these things will come to light if you go back , and they won't sound well at all . 
Faith , if I was you I'd even bide as you be a single man of the name of Francis . 
A good wife is good , but the best wife is not so good as no wife at all . 
Now that's my outspoke mind , and I've been called a long headed feller here and there . 
All nonsense ! said Troy , angrily . 
There she is with plenty of money , and a house and farm , and horses , and comfort , and here am I living from hand to mouth a needy adventurer . 
Besides , it is no use talking now it is too late , and I am glad of it I've been seen and recognized here this very afternoon . 
What the deuce put it into my head to run away at all , I can't think ! Humbugging sentiment that's what it was . 
But what man on earth was to know that his wife would be in such a hurry to get rid of his name ! I should have known it . 
She's bad enough for anything . 
Pennyways , mind who you are talking to . 
Well , sergeant , all I say is this , that if I were you I'd go abroad again where I came from 'tisn't too late to do it now . 
My eyes and limbs , there'll be a racket if you go back just now in the middle of Boldwood's Christmasing ! H'm , yes . 
I expect I shall not be a very welcome guest if he has her there , said the sergeant , with a slight laugh . 
I sometimes think she likes you yet , and is a good woman at bottom , he said , as a saving sentence . 
But there's no telling to a certainty from a body's outside . 
Well , you'll do as you like about going , of course , sergeant , and as for me , I'll do as you tell me . 
Now , let me see what the time is , said Troy , after emptying his glass in one draught as he stood . 
I shall not hurry along the road , and shall be there then before nine . 
He was seen in Casterbridge this afternoon so the boy said , one of them remarked in a whisper . 
And l for one believe it . 
His body was never found , you know . 
'Tis a strange story , said the next . 
You may depend upon't that she knows nothing about it . 
Perhaps he don't mean that she shall , said another man . 
If he's alive and here in the neighbourhood , he means mischief , said the first . 
Poor young thing I do pity her , if 'tis true . 
He'll drag her to the dogs . 
O no he'll settle down quiet enough , said one disposed to take a more hopeful view of the case . 
I don't hold with 'ee there . 
Hullo , who's that ? This was to some footsteps that were heard approaching . 
William Smallbury , said a dim figure in the shades , coming up and joining them . 
Be ye any of Boldwood's workfolk ? He peered into their faces . 
We met here a few minutes ago . 
Oh , I hear now that's Sam Samway thought I knowed the voice , too . 
Laban Tall named a hint of it to me but now but I don't think it . 
Hark , here Laban comes himself , 'a b'lieve . 
Laban ? Yes , 'tis I , said Tall . 
Have ye heard any more about that ? No , said Tall , joining the group . 
And I'm inclined to think we'd better keep quiet . 
God send that it mid be a lie , for though Henery Fray and some of 'em do speak against her , she's never been anything but fair to me . 
She's hot and hasty , but she's a brave girl who'll never tell a lie however much the truth may harm her , and I've no cause to wish her evil . 
She never do tell women's little lies , that's true and 'tis a thing that can be said of very few . 
Ay , all the harm she thinks she says to yer face there's nothing underhand wi' her . 
They stood silent then , every man busied with his own thoughts , during which interval sounds of merriment could be heard within . 
'Tis master , one of the men whispered , as he neared them . 
We'd better stand quiet he'll go in again directly . 
He would think it unseemly o' us to be loitering here . 
Boldwood came on , and passed by the men without seeing them , they being under the bushes on the grass . 
He paused , leant over the gate , and breathed a long breath . 
They heard low words come from him . 
Boldwood remained silent after that , and the noise from indoors was again just audible , until , a few minutes later , light wheels could be distinguished coming down the hill . 
They drew nearer , and ceased at the gate . 
Boldwood hastened back to the door , and opened it and the light shone upon Bathsheba coming up the path . 
Boldwood compressed his emotion to mere welcome the men marked her light laugh and apology as she met him he took her into the house and the door closed again . 
Gracious heaven , I didn't know it was like that with him ! said one of the men . 
I thought that fancy of his was over long ago . 
You don't know much of master , if you thought that , said Samway . 
I wouldn't he should know we heard what 'a said for the world , remarked a third . 
I wish we had told of the report at once , the first uneasily continued . 
More harm may come of this than we know of . 
Poor Mr. Boldwood , it will be hard upon en . 
I wish Troy was in Well , God forgive me for such a wish ! A scoundrel to play a poor wife such tricks . 
Nothing has prospered in Weatherbury since he came here . 
And now I've no heart to go in . 
The three soon drew near the malt house , approaching it from the adjoining orchard , and not by way of the street . 
The pane of glass was illuminated as usual . 
Smallbury was a little in advance of the rest when , pausing , he turned suddenly to his companions and said , Hist ! See there . 
The light from the pane was now perceived to be shining not upon the ivied wall as usual , but upon some object close to the glass . 
It was a human face . 
Let's come closer , whispered Samway and they approached on tiptoe . 
There was no disbelieving the report any longer . 
Troy's face was almost close to the pane , and he was looking in . 
The spree is all in her honour , isn't it hey ? said the old man . 
Although he made believe 'tis only keeping up o' Christmas ? I cannot say , replied Oak . 
Oh 'tis true enough , faith . 
The men , after recognizing Troy's features , withdrew across the orchard as quietly as they had come . 
The air was big with Bathsheba's fortunes to night every word everywhere concerned her . 
When they were quite out of earshot all by one instinct paused . 
It gave me quite a turn his face , said Tall , breathing . 
And so it did me , said Samway . 
What's to be done ? I don't see that 'tis any business of ours , Smallbury murmured dubiously . 
But it is ! 'Tis a thing which is everybody's business , said Samway . 
We know very well that master's on a wrong tack , and that she's quite in the dark , and we should let 'em know at once . 
Laban , you know her best you'd better go and ask to speak to her . 
I bain't fit for any such thing , said Laban , nervously . 
I should think William ought to do it if anybody . 
I shall have nothing to do with it , said Smallbury . 
'Tis a ticklish business altogether . 
Why , he'll go on to her himself in a few minutes , ye'll see . 
We don't know that he will . 
Very well , if I must I must , I suppose , Tall reluctantly answered . 
What must I say ? Just ask to see master . 
Oh no I shan't speak to Mr. Boldwood . 
If I tell anybody , 'twill be mistress . 
Very well , said Samway . 
Laban then went to the door . 
One of them began walking up and down , and then came to where he started from and stopped again , with a sense that walking was a thing not worth doing now . 
I should think Laban must have seen mistress by this time , said Smallbury , breaking the silence . 
Perhaps she won't come and speak to him . 
Tall appeared , and joined them . 
I didn't like to ask for her after all , Laban faltered out . 
They were all in such a stir , trying to put a little spirit into the party . 
Perhaps I may have a chance of saying a word to master . 
So the men entered the hall , which was the room selected and arranged for the gathering because of its size . 
The younger men and maids were at last just beginning to dance . 
Bathsheba had been perplexed how to act , for she was not much more than a slim young maid herself , and the weight of stateliness sat heavy upon her . 
Nobody was in the room , but she had hardly been there a moment when the master of the house entered . 
Mrs. Troy you are not going ? he said . 
We've hardly begun ! If you'll excuse me , I should like to go now . 
Her manner was restive , for she remembered her promise , and imagined what he was about to say . 
But as it is not late , she added , I can walk home , and leave my man and Liddy to come when they choose . 
I've been trying to get an opportunity of speaking to you , said Boldwood . 
You know perhaps what I long to say ? Bathsheba silently looked on the floor . 
You do give it ? he said , eagerly . 
Now , that's evasion ! Why , the promise . 
I don't want to intrude upon you at all , or to let it become known to anybody . 
But do give your word ! A mere business compact , you know , between two people who are beyond the influence of passion . 
Boldwood knew how false this picture was as regarded himself but he had proved that it was the only tone in which she would allow him to approach her . 
A promise to marry me at the end of five years and three quarters . 
You owe it to me ! I feel that I do , said Bathsheba that is , if you demand it . 
But I am a changed woman an unhappy woman and not not You are still a very beautiful woman , said Boldwood . 
Honesty and pure conviction suggested the remark , unaccompanied by any perception that it might have been adopted by blunt flattery to soothe and win her . 
And I don't at all know what is right to do in my difficult position , and I have nobody to advise me . 
But I give my promise , if I must . 
I give it as the rendering of a debt , conditionally , of course , on my being a widow . 
You'll marry me between five and six years hence ? Don't press me too hard . 
I am afraid what to do ! want to be just to you , and to be that seems to be wronging myself , and perhaps it is breaking the commandments . 
'And you'll not press me about anything more if I say in five or six years ? she sobbed , when she had power to frame the words . 
Yes , then I'll leave it to time . 
I'll marry you in six years from this day , if we both live , she said solemnly . 
And you'll take this as a token from me . 
Boldwood had come close to her side , and now he clasped one of her hands in both his own , and lifted it to his breast . 
It means simply a pledge no sentiment the seal of a practical compact , he said more quietly , but still retaining her hand in his firm grasp . 
Come , now ! And Boldwood slipped the ring on her finger . 
I cannot wear it , she said , weeping as if her heart would break . 
You frighten me , almost . 
At length she said , in a sort of hopeless whisper Very well , then , I will to night , if you wish it so earnestly . 
Now loosen my hand I will , indeed I will wear it to night . 
Boldwood pressed her hand , and allowed it to drop in her lap . 
I am happy now , he said . 
God bless you ! He left the room , and when he thought she might be sufficiently composed sent one of the maids to her . 
There was no music or dancing in progress just now . 
At the lower end , which had been arranged for the work folk specially , a group conversed in whispers , and with clouded looks . 
What is it you are in doubt about , men ? he said . 
One of them turned and replied uneasily It was something Laban heard of , that's all , sir . 
News ? Anybody married or engaged , born or dead ? inquired the farmer , gaily . 
Tell it to us , Tall . 
One would think from your looks and mysterious ways that it was something very dreadful indeed . 
Oh no , sir , nobody is dead , said Tall . 
I wish somebody was , said Samway , in a whisper . 
What do you say , Samway ? asked Boldwood , somewhat sharply . 
If you have anything to say , speak out if not , get up another dance . 
Mrs. Troy has come downstairs , said Samway to Tall . 
If you want to tell her , you had better do it now . 
Do you know what they mean ? the farmer asked Bathsheba , across the room . 
I don't in the least , said Bathsheba . 
There was a smart rapping at the door . 
One of the men opened it instantly , and went outside . 
Mrs. Troy is wanted , he said , on returning . 
Quite ready , said Bathsheba . 
Though I didn't tell them to send . 
It is a stranger , ma'am , said the man by the door . 
A stranger ? she said . 
Ask him to come in , said Boldwood . 
The message was given , and Troy , wrapped up to his eyes as we have seen him , stood in the doorway . 
There was an unearthly silence , all looking towards the newcomer . 
Those who had just learnt that he was in the neighbourhood recognized him instantly those who did not were perplexed . 
She was leaning on the stairs . 
Her brow had heavily contracted her whole face was pallid , her lips apart , her eyes rigidly staring at their visitor . 
Boldwood was among those who did not notice that he was Troy . 
Troy began to laugh a mechanical laugh Boldwood recognized him now . 
The poor girl's wretchedness at this time was beyond all fancy or narration . 
Bathsheba , I come here for you ! She made no reply . 
Come home with me come ! Bathsheba moved her feet a little , but did not rise . 
Troy went across to her . 
Come , madam , do you hear what I say ? he said , peremptorily . 
A strange voice came from the fireplace a voice sounding far off and confined , as if from a dungeon . 
Hardly a soul in the assembly recognized the thin tones to be those of Boldwood . 
Sudden dispaire had transformed him . 
Bathsheba , go with your husband ! Nevertheless , she did not move . 
The truth was that Bathsheba was beyond the pale of activity and yet not in a swoon . 
She was in a state of mental GUTTA SERENA her mind was for the minute totally deprived of light at the same time no obscuration was apparent from without . 
Troy stretched out his hand to pull her her towards him , when she quickly shrank back . 
This visible dread of him seemed to irritate Troy , and he seized her arm and pulled it sharply . 
The scream had been heard but a few seconds when it was followed by sudden deafening report that echoed through the room and stupefied them all . 
The oak partition shook with the concussion , and the place was filled with grey smoke . 
In bewilderment they turned their eyes to Boldwood . 
At his back , as stood before the fireplace , was a gun rack , as is usual in farmhouses , constructed to hold two guns . 
When Bathsheba had cried out in her husband's grasp , Boldwood's face of gnashing despair had changed . 
The veins had swollen , and a frenzied look had gleamed in his eye . 
He had turned quickly , taken one of the guns , cocked it , and at once discharged it at Troy . 
The distance apart of the two men was so small that the charge of shot did not spread in the least , but passed like a bullet into his body . 
He uttered a long guttural sigh there was a contraction an extension then his muscles relaxed , and he lay still . 
Boldwood was seen through the smoke to be now again engaged with the gun . 
Samway his man was the first to see this , and in the midst of the general horror darted up to him . 
Boldwood had already twitched the handkerchief , and the gun exploded a second time , sending its contents , by a timely blow from Samway , into the beam which crossed the ceiling . 
Well , it makes no difference ! Boldwood gasped . 
There is another way for me to die . 
Then he broke from Samway , crossed the room to Bathsheba , and kissed her hand . 
He put on his hat , opened the door , and went into the darkness , nobody thinking of preventing him . 
CHAPTER LIV AFTER THE SHOCK BOLDWOOD passed into the high road and turned in the direction of Casterbridge . 
He turned to the right , and halted before an archway of heavy stonework , which was closed by an iron studded pair of doors . 
This was the entrance to the gaol , and over it a lamp was fixed , the light enabling the wretched traveller to find a bell pull . 
The small wicket at last opened , and a porter appeared . 
Boldwood stepped forward , and said something in a low tone , when , after a delay , another man came . 
Boldwood entered , and the door was closed behind him , and he walked the world no more . 
Long before this time Weatherbury had been thoroughly aroused , and the wild deed which had terminated Boldwood's merrymaking became known to all . 
All the female guests were huddled aghast against the walls like sheep in a storm , and the men were bewildered as to what to do . 
As for Bathsheba , she had changed . 
She was sitting on the floor beside the body of Troy , his head pillowed in her lap , where she had herself lifted it . 
The household convulsion had made her herself again . 
The temporary coma had ceased , and activity had come with the necessity for it . 
She was of the stuff of which great men's mothers are made . 
She was indispensable to high generation , hated at tea parties , feared in shops , and loved at crises . 
Troy recumbent in his wife's lap formed now the sole spectacle in the middle of the spacious room . 
Ride to Casterbridge instantly for a surgeon . 
It is , I believe , useless , but go . 
Mr. Boldwood has shot my husband . 
Oak , almost before he had comprehended anything beyond the briefest abstract of the event , hurried out of the room , saddled a horse and rode away . 
What had become of Boldwood ? He should have been looked after . 
In the meantime the surgeon , having hastened into the hall at Boldwood's , found it in darkness and quite deserted . 
He went on to the back of the house , where he discovered in the kitchen an old man , of whom he made inquiries . 
She's had him took away to her own house , sir , said his informant . 
Who has ? said the doctor . 
'A was quite dead , sir . 
She had no right to do that , said the doctor . 
There will have to be an inquest , and she should have waited to know what to do . 
Yes , sir it was hinted to her that she had better wait till the law was known . 
But she said law was nothing to her , and she wouldn't let her dear husband's corpse bide neglected for folks to stare at for all the crowners in England . 
Mr. Aldritch drove at once back again up the hill to Bathsheba's . 
The first person he met was poor Liddy , who seemed literally to have dwindled smaller in these few latter hours . 
What has been done ? he said . 
I don't know , sir , said Liddy , with suspended breath . 
My mistress has done it all . 
Where is she ? Upstairs with him , sir . 
When he was brought home and taken upstairs , she said she wanted no further help from the men . 
And then she called me , and made me fill the bath , and after that told me I had better go and lie down because I looked so ill . 
Then she locked herself into the room alone with him , and would not let a nurse come in , or anybody at all . 
But I thought I'd wait in the next room in case she should want me . 
She said we were to let her know when you or Mr. Thirdly came , sir . 
Oak entered with the parson at this moment , and they all went upstairs together , preceded by Liddy Smallbury . 
Everything was silent as the grave when they paused on the landing . 
Liddy knocked , and Bathsheba's dress was heard rustling across the room the key turned in the lock , and she opened the door . 
Her looks were calm and nearly rigid , like a slightly animated bust of Melpomene . 
Oh , Mr. Aldritch , you have come at last , she murmured from her lips merely , and threw back the door . 
Ah , and Mr. Thirdly . 
Well , all is done , and anybody in the world may see him now . 
She then passed by him , crossed the landing , and entered another room . 
Everything around was quite orderly . 
The doctor went in , and after a few minutes returned to the landing again , where Oak and the parson still waited . 
It is all done , indeed , as she says , remarked Mr. Aldritch , in a subdued voice . 
The body has been undressed and properly laid out in grave clothes . 
The simple consciousness that superhuman strain was no longer required had at once put a period to her power to continue it . 
The sufferer was got to bed , and Oak , finding from the bulletins that nothing really dreadful was to be apprehended on her score , left the house . 
The groups consisted of a throng of idlers , a party of javelin men , and two trumpeters , and in the midst were carriages , one of which contained the high sheriff . 
Joseph , I seed you squeezing close to the carriage , said Coggan , as they walked . 
Did ye notice my lord judge's face ? I did , said Poorgrass . 
Well , I hope for the best , said Coggan , though bad that must be . 
However , I shan't go to the trial , and I'd advise the rest of ye that bain't wanted to bide away . 
'Twill disturb his mind more than anything to see us there staring at him as if he were a show . 
And now , neighbours , as I said , every man bide at home . 
The resolution was adhered to and all waited anxiously for the news next day . 
Their suspense was diverted , however , by a discovery which was made in the afternoon , throwing more light on Boldwood's conduct and condition than any details which had preceded it . 
In a locked closet was now discovered an extraordinary collection of articles . 
There were two muffs , sable and ermine . 
Above all there was a case of jewellery , containing four heavy gold bracelets and several lockets and rings , all of fine quality and manufacture . 
These things had been bought in Bath and other towns from time to time , and brought home by stealth . 
They were all carefully packed in paper , and each package was labelled Bathsheba Boldwood , a date being subjoined six years in advance in every instance . 
These somewhat pathetic evidences of a mind crazed with care and love were the subject of discourse in Warren's malt house when Oak entered from Casterbridge with tidings of sentence . 
He came in the afternoon , and his face , as the kiln glow shone upon it , told the tale sufficiently well . 
Boldwood , as every one supposed he would do , had pleaded guilty , and had been sentenced to death . 
The conviction that Boldwood had not been morally responsible for his later acts now became general . 
A petition was addressed to the Home Secretary , advancing the circumstances which appeared to justify a request for a reconsideration of the sentence . 
It was not numerously signed by the inhabitants of Casterbridge , as is usual in such cases , for Boldwood had never made many friends over the counter . 
The upshot of the petition was waited for in Weatherbury with solicitous interest . 
The execution had been fixed for eight o'clock on a Saturday morning about a fortnight after the sentence was passed , and up to Friday afternoon no answer had been received . 
At that time Gabriel came from Casterbridge Gaol , whither he had been to wish Boldwood good bye , and turned down a by street to avoid the town . 
When past the last house he heard a hammering , and lifting his bowed head he looked back for a moment . 
Over the chimneys he could see the upper part of the gaol entrance , rich and glowing in the afternoon sun , and some moving figures were there . 
They were carpenters lifting a post into a vertical position within the parapet . 
He withdrew his eyes quickly , and hastened on . 
It was dark when he reached home , and half the village was out to meet him . 
No tidings , Gabriel said , wearily . 
And I'm afraid there's no hope . 
I've been with him more than two hours . 
Do ye think he REALLY was out of his mind when he did it ? said Smallbury . 
I can't honestly say that I do , Oak replied . 
However , that we can talk of another time . 
Has there been any change in mistress this afternoon ? None at all . 
Is she downstairs ? No. And getting on so nicely as she was too . 
She's but very little better now again than she was at Christmas . 
She keeps on asking if you be come , and if there's news , till one's wearied out wi' answering her . 
Shall I go and say you've come ? No , said Oak . 
There's a chance yet but I couldn't stay in town any longer after seeing him too . 
So Laban Laban is here , isn't he ? Yes , said Tall . 
What I've arranged is , that you shall ride to town the last thing to night leave here about nine , and wait a while there , getting home about twelve . 
If nothing has been received by eleven to night , they say there's no chance at all . 
I do so hope his life will be spared , said Liddy . 
If it is not , she'll go out of her mind too . 
Poor thing her sufferings have been dreadful she deserves anybody's pity . 
Is she altered much ? said Coggan . 
If you haven't seen poor mistress since Christmas , you wouldn't know her , said Liddy . 
Her eyes are so miserable that she's not the same woman . 
Gabriel's anxiety was great that Boldwood might be saved , even though in his conscience he felt that he ought to die for there had been qualities in the farmer which Oak loved . 
We shall soon know now , one way or other . 
said Coggan , and they all stepped down from the bank on which they had been standing into the road , and the rider pranced into the midst of them . 
Is that you , Laban ? said Gabriel . 
'Tis confinement during her Majesty's pleasure . 
Hurrah ! said Coggan , with a swelling heart . 
God's above the devil yet ! CHAPTER LVI BEAUTY IN LONELINESS AFTER ALL BATHSHEBA revived with the spring . 
The utter prostration that had followed the low fever from which she had suffered diminished perceptibly when all uncertainty upon every subject had come to an end . 
But she remained alone now for the greater part of her time , and stayed in the house , or at furthest went into the garden . 
She shunned every one , even Liddy , and could be brought to make no confidences , and to ask for no sympathy . 
One Friday evening in August she walked a little way along the road and entered the village for the first time since the sombre event of the preceding Christmas . 
None of the old colour had as yet come to her cheek , and its absolute paleness was heightened by the jet black of her gown , till it appeared preternatural . 
She crossed the road , opened the gate , and entered the graveyard , the high sills of the church windows effectually screening her from the eyes of those gathered within . 
Her stealthy walk was to the nook wherein Troy had worked at planting flowers upon Fanny Robin's grave , and she came to the marble tombstone . 
A motion of satisfaction enlivened her face as she read the complete inscription . 
First came the words of Troy himself ERECTED BY FRANCIS TROY IN BELOVED MEMORY OF FANNY ROBIN , WHO DIED OCTOBER , , AGED YEARS . 
Underneath this was now inscribed in new letters IN THE SAME GRAVE LIE THE REMAINS OF THE AFORESAID FRANCIS TROY , WHO DIED DECEMBER TH , , AGED YEARS . 
Whilst she stood and read and meditated the tones of the organ began again in the church , and she went with the same light step round to the porch and listened . 
The door was closed , and the choir was learning a new hymn . 
Bathsheba was stirred by emotions which latterly she had assumed to be altogether dead within her . 
Bathsheba's feeling was always to some extent dependent upon her whim , as is the case with many other women . 
Something big came into her throat and an uprising to her eyes and she thought that she would allow the imminent tears to flow if they wished . 
They did flow and plenteously , and one fell upon the stone bench beside her . 
Once that she had begun to cry for she hardly knew what , she could not leave off for crowding thoughts she knew too well . 
All the impassioned scenes of her brief expenence seemed to revive with added emotion at that moment , and those scenes which had been without emotion during enactment had emotion then . 
Yet grief came to her rather as a luxury than as the scourge of former times . 
Bathsheba did not raise her head for some time , and when she looked round her face was wet , and her eyes drowned and dim . 
Mr. Oak , exclaimed she , disconcerted , how long have you been here ? A few minutes , ma'am , said Oak , respectfully . 
I was , said Gabriel . 
I am one of the bass singers , you know . 
I have sung bass for several months . 
Indeed I wasn't aware of that . 
I'll leave you , then . 
Which I have loved long since , and lost awhile , sang the children . 
Don't let me drive you away , mistress . 
I think I won't go in to night . 
Oh no you don't drive me away . 
Then they stood in a state of some embarrassment Bathsheba trying to wipe her dreadfully drenched and inflamed face without his noticing her . 
I came to see the tombstone privately to see if they had cut the inscription as I wished . 
Mr. Oak , you needn't mind speaking to me , if you wish to , on the matter which is in both our minds at this moment . 
And have they done it as you wished ? said Oak . 
Come and see it , if you have not already . 
So together they went and read the tomb . 
Eight months ago ! Gabriel murmured when he saw the date . 
It seems like yesterday to me . 
And to me as if it were years ago long years , and I had been dead between . 
And now I am going home , Mr. Oak . 
I wanted to name a small matter to you as soon as I could , he said , with hesitation . 
Merrily about business , and I think I may just mention it now , if you'll allow me . 
It is that I may soon have to give up the management of your farm , Mrs. Troy . 
The fact is , I am thinking of leaving England not yet , you know next spring . 
Leaving England ! she said , in surprise and genuine disappointment . 
Why , Gabriel , what are you going to do that for ? Well , I've thought it best , Oak stammered out . 
California is the spot I've had in my mind to try . 
But it is understood everywhere that you are going to take poor Mr. Boldwood's farm on your own account . 
I've had the refusal o' it 'tis true but nothing is settled yet , and I have reasons for giving up . 
I shall finish out my year there as manager for the trustees , but no more . 
And what shall I do without you ? Oh , Gabriel , I don't think you ought to go away . 
You've been with me so long through bright times and dark times such old friends that as we are that it seems unkind almost . 
I had fancied that if you leased the other farm as master , you might still give a helping look across at mine . 
And now going away ! I would have willingly . 
Yet now that I am more helpless than ever you go away ! Yes , that's the ill fortune o' it , said Gabriel , in a distressed tone . 
And it is because of that very helplessness that I feel bound to go . 
Good afternoon , ma'am he concluded , in evident anxiety to get away , and at once went out of the churchyard by a path she could follow on no pretence whatever . 
Bathsheba went home , her mind occupied with a new trouble , which being rather harassing than deadly was calculated to do good by diverting her from the chronic gloom of her life . 
It broke upon her at length as a great pain that her last old disciple was about to forsake her and flee . 
Three weeks went on , and more evidence of his want of interest in her was forthcoming . 
Whenever he wanted directions he sent a message , or note with neither heading nor signature , to which she was obliged to reply in the same offhand style . 
Poor Bathsheba began to suffer now from the most torturing sting of all a sensation that she was despised . 
There he was , as usual , coming down the path behind her . 
The next morning brought the culminating stroke she had been expecting it long . 
It was a formal notice by letter from him that he should not renew his engagement with her for the following Lady day . 
Bathsheba actually sat and cried over this letter most bitterly . 
Since Troy's death Oak had attended all sales and fairs for her , transacting her business at the same time with his own . 
What should she do now ? Her life was becoming a desolation . 
A lively firelight shone from the window , but nobody was visible in the room . 
Gabriel opened the door , and the moon shone upon his forehead . 
Mr. Oak , said Bathsheba , faintly . 
Yes I am Mr. Oak , said Gabriel . 
I suppose But come in , ma'am . 
Oh and I'll get a light , Oak replied , with some awkwardness . 
No not on my account . 
It is so seldom that I get a lady visitor that I'm afraid I haven't proper accommodation . 
Will you sit down , please ? Here's a chair , and there's one , too . 
I am sorry that my chairs all have wood seats , and are rather hard , but I was thinking of getting some new ones . 
Oak placed two or three for her . 
They are quite easy enough for me . 
that formed Oak's array of household possessions , which sent back a dancing reflection in reply . 
You'll think it strange that I have come , but Oh no not at all . 
But I thought Gabriel , I have been uneasy in the belief that I have offended you , and that you are going away on that account . 
It grieved me very much and I couldn't help coming . 
Offended me ! As if you could do that , Bathsheba ! Haven't I ? she asked , gladly . 
I have arranged for Little Weatherbury Farm and shall have it in my own hands at Lady day . 
You know I've had a share in it for some time . 
Still , that wouldn't prevent my attending to your business as before , hadn't it been that things have been said about us . 
What ? said Bathsheba , in surprise . 
Things said about you and me ! What are they ? I cannot tell you . 
It would be wiser if you were to , I think . 
You have played the part of mentor to me many times , and I don't see why you should fear to do it now . 
It is nothing that you have done , this time . 
The top and tail o't is this that I am sniffing about here , and waiting for poor Boldwood's farm , with a thought of getting you some day . 
Getting me ! What does that mean ? Marrying of 'ee , in plain British . 
You asked me to tell , so you mustn't blame me . 
Bathsheba did not look quite so alarmed as if a cannon had been discharged by her ear , which was what Oak had expected . 
Marrying me ! I didn't know it was that you meant , she said , quietly . 
Such a thing as that is too absurd too soon to think of , by far ! Yes of course , it is too absurd . 
I don't desire any such thing I should think that was plain enough by this time . 
Surely , surely you be the last person in the world I think of marrying . 
It is too absurd , as you say . 
'Too s s soon' were the words I used . 
'Too soon' was what I said . 
But it doesn't matter a bit not at all but I only meant , 'too soon . 
Why ? Because you never ask . 
Oh Oh ! said Gabriel , with a low laugh of joyousness . 
My own dear You ought not to have sent me that harsh letter this morning , she interrupted . 
Nobody knows the heat and fret I have been caused by it . 
And was that all ? All . 
Oh , how glad I am I came ! she exclaimed , thankfully , as she rose from her seat . 
I have thought so much more of you since I fancied you did not want even to see me again . 
But I must be going now , or I shall be missed . 
I've danced at your skittish heels , my beautiful Bathsheba , for many a long mile , and many a long day and it is hard to begrudge me this one visit . 
He accompanied her up the hill , explaining to her the details of his forthcoming tenure of the other farm . 
They spoke very little of their mutual feeling pretty phrases and warm expressions being probably unnecessary between such tried friends . 
CHAPTER LVII A FOGGY NIGHT AND MORNING CONCLUSION THE most private , secret , plainest wedding that it is possible to have . 
A licence O yes , it must be a licence , he said to himself at last . 
Very well , then first , a license . 
On a dark night , a few days later , Oak came with mysterious steps from the surrogate's door , in Casterbridge . 
On the way home he heard a heavy tread in front of him , and , overtaking the man , found him to be Coggan . 
Well , good night , Coggan , said Oak , I'm going down this way . 
Yes , I have , and I do know . 
Well , then , mistress and I mean to get married to morrow morning . 
Heaven's high tower ! And yet I've thought of such a thing from time to time true , I have . 
But keeping it so close ! Well , there , 'tis no consarn of of mine , and I wish 'ee joy o' her . 
Ay , I see quite right , too , I suppose I must say . 
And you be now going down to the clerk . 
Yes you may as well come with me . 
I am afeard your labour in keeping it close will be throwed away , said Coggan , as they walked along . 
Labe Tall's old woman will horn it all over parish in half an hour . 
So she will , upon my life I never thought of that , said Oak , pausing . 
Yet I must tell him to night , I suppose , for he's working so far off , and leaves early . 
I'll tell 'ee how we could tackle her , said Coggan . 
I'll knock and ask to speak to Laban outside the door , you standing in the background . 
Then he'll come out , and you can tell yer tale . 
She'll never guess what I want en for and I'll make up a few words about the farm work , as a blind . 
This scheme was considered feasible and Coggan advanced boldly , and rapped at Mrs. Tall's door . 
Mrs. Tall herself opened it . 
I wanted to have a word with Laban . 
He's not at home , and won't be this side of eleven o'clock . 
He've been forced to go over to Yalbury since shutting out work . 
I shall do quite as well . 
I hardly think you will . 
Stop a moment and Coggan stepped round the corner of the porch to consult Oak . 
Who's t'other man , then ? said Mrs. Tall . 
Only a friend , said Coggan . 
Say he's wanted to meet mistress near church hatch to morrow morning at ten , said Oak , in a whisper . 
That he must come without fail , and wear his best clothes . 
The clothes will floor us as safe as houses ! said Coggan . 
It can't be helped said Oak . 
So Coggan delivered the message . 
Mind , het or wet , blow or snow , he must come , added Jan . 
'Tis very particular , indeed . 
The fact is , 'tis to witness her sign some law work about taking shares wi' another farmer for a long span o' years . 
There , that's what 'tis , and now I've told 'ee , Mother Tall , in a way I shouldn't ha' done if I hadn't loved 'ee so hopeless well . 
Coggan retired before she could ask any further and next they called at the vicar's in a manner which excited no curiosity at all . 
Then Gabriel went home , and prepared for the morrow . 
Liddy , said Bathsheba , on going to bed that night , I want you to call me at seven o'clock to morrow , In case I shouldn't wake . 
But you always do wake afore then , ma'am . 
Yes , but I have something important to do , which I'll tell you of when the time comes , and it's best to make sure . 
Bathsheba , however , awoke voluntarily at four , nor could she by any contrivance get to sleep again . 
About six , being quite positive that her watch had stopped during the night , she could wait no longer . 
She went and tapped at Liddy's door , and after some labour awoke her . 
But I thought it was I who had to call you ? said the bewildered Liddy . 
And it isn't six yet . 
Indeed it is how can you tell such a story , Liddy ? I know it must be ever so much past seven . 
Come to my room as soon as you can I want you to give my hair a good brushing . 
When Liddy came to Bathsheba's room her mistress was already waiting . 
Liddy could not understand this extraordinary promptness . 
Whatever IS going on , ma'am ? she said . 
Well , I'll tell you , said Bathsheba , with a mischievous smile in her bright eyes . 
Farmer Oak is coming here to dine with me to day ! Farmer Oak and nobody else ? you two alone ? Yes . 
But is it safe , ma'am , after what's been said ? asked her companion , dubiously . 
A woman's good name is such a perishable article that Bathsheba laughed with a flushed cheek , and whispered in Liddy's ear , although there was nobody present . 
Then Liddy stared and exclaimed , Souls alive , what news ! It makes my heart go quite bumpity bump It makes mine rather furious , too , said Bathsheba . 
However , there's no getting out of it now ! It was a damp disagreeable morning . 
Ten minutes later a large and a smaller umbrella might have been seen moving from the same door , and through the mist along the road to the church . 
The distance was not more than a quarter of a mile , and these two sensible persons deemed it unnecessary to drive . 
Yet , though so plainly dressed there was a certain rejuvenated appearance about her As though a rose should shut and be a bud again . 
In the church were Tall , Liddy , and the parson , and in a remarkably short space of time the deed was done . 
The performers came forward , and marched up to the front . 
Those bright boys , Mark Clark and Jan , are at the bottom of all this , said Oak . 
Come in , souls , and have something to eat and drink wi' me and my wife . 
Not to night , said Mr. Clark , with evident self denial . 
Thank ye all the same but we'll call at a more seemly time . 
However , we couldn't think of letting the day pass without a note of admiration of some sort . 
If ye could send a drop of som'at down to Warren's , why so it is . 
Here's long life and happiness to neighbour Oak and his comely bride ! Thank ye thank ye all , said Gabriel . 
A bit and a drop shall be sent to Warren's for ye at once . 
I had a thought that we might very likely get a salute of some sort from our old friends , and I was saying so to my wife but now . 
It might have been a little more true to nater if't had been spoke a little chillier , but that wasn't to be expected just now . 
That improvement will come wi' time , said Jan , twirling his eye . 
, and their friends turned to go . 
'Ephraim is joined to idols let him alone . 
But since 'tis as 'tis why , it might have been worse , and I feel my thanks accordingly . 
