by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
TO CHARLES BAXTER , WRITER TO THE SIGNET . 
Yet , when I remember the days of our explorations , I am not without hope . 
so far afield as Gillane or the Bass . 
So , perhaps , his eye shall be opened to behold the series of the generations , and he shall weigh with surprise his momentous and nugatory gift of life . 
You are still as when first I saw , as when I last addressed you in the venerable city which I must always think of as my home . 
And I admire and bow my head before the romance of destiny . 
R. L. S. Vailima , Upolu , Samoa , . 
the ball directly at my foot . 
There were two circumstances that served me as ballast to so much sail . 
The first was the very difficult and deadly business I had still to handle the second , the place that I was in . 
The throng of the citizens in particular abashed me . 
Rankeillor's son was short and small in the girth his clothes scarce held on me and it was plain I was ill qualified to strut in the front of a bank porter . 
Thence to an armourer's , where I got a plain sword , to suit with my degree in life . 
it might be called an added danger . 
The porter , who was naturally a man of some experience , judged my accoutrement to be well chosen . 
Naething kenspeckle , said he plain , dacent claes . 
As for the rapier , nae doubt it sits wi' your degree but an I had been you , I would has waired my siller better gates than that . 
And he proposed I should buy winter hosen from a wife in the Cowgate back , that was a cousin of his own , and made them extraordinar endurable . 
But I had other matters on my hand more pressing . 
It was , indeed , a place where no stranger had a chance to find a friend , let be another stranger . 
Suppose him even to hit on the right close , people dwelt so thronged in these tall houses , he might very well seek a day before he chanced on the right door . 
brought you again where you were lodging . 
It would be a piece of little wisdom , the way I was now placed , to take such a ferret to my tails . 
I made bold to find the way to it myself , with the help of my two legs and a Scots tongue . 
But the rest were in a different case . 
Not only was the visit to Appin's agent , in the midst of the cry about the Appin murder , dangerous in itself , but it was highly inconsistent with the other . 
The whole thing , besides , gave me a look of running with the hare and hunting with the hounds that was little to my fancy . 
Being strange to what I saw , I stepped a little farther in . 
The narrow paved way descended swiftly . 
Prodigious tall houses sprang upon each side and bulged out , one storey beyond another , as they rose . 
At the top only a ribbon of sky showed in . 
I was still gazing , when there came a sudden brisk tramp of feet in time and clash of steel behind me . 
Turning quickly , I was aware of a party of armed soldiers , and , in their midst , a tall man in a great coat . 
He walked with a stoop that was like a piece of courtesy , genteel and insinuating he waved his hands plausibly as he went , and his face was sly and handsome . 
I thought his eye took me in , but could not meet it . 
There can nothing pass in the streets of a city without some following of idle folk and children . 
It was so now but the more part melted away incontinent until but three were left . 
followers were ragged gillies , such as I had seen the matches of by the dozen in my Highland journey . 
The lady scolded sharply , the others making apologies and cringeing before her , so that I made sure she was come of a chief's house . 
It chanced the girl turned suddenly about , so that I saw her face for the first time . 
And , whatever was the cause , I stood there staring like a fool . 
On her side , as she had not known there was anyone so near , she looked at me a little longer , and perhaps with more surprise , than was entirely civil . 
The beggar on horseback could not bear to be thrust down so low , or , at least of it , not by this young lady . 
I followed , accordingly , and took off my new hat to her the best that I was able . 
Madam , said I , I think it only fair to myself to let you understand I have no Gaelic . 
She made me a little , distant curtsey . 
There is no harm done , said she , with a pretty accent , most like the English . 
A cat may look at a king . 
I do not mean to offend , said I. I have no skill of city manners I never before this day set foot inside the doors of Edinburgh . 
Take me for a country lad it's what I am and I would rather I told you than you found it out . 
Indeed , it will be a very unusual thing for strangers to be speaking to each other on the causeway , she replied . 
But if you are landward bred it will be different . 
I am as landward as yourself I am Highland , as you see , and think myself the farther from my home . 
It is not yet a week since I passed the line , said I. Less than a week ago I was on the braes of Balwhidder . 
Come ye from Balwhither ! The name of it makes all there is of me rejoice . 
Well , I know Duncan , and you give him the true name ! she said and if he is an honest man , his wife is honest indeed . 
Ay , said I , they are fine people , and the place is a bonny place . 
Where in the great world is such another ! she cries I am loving the smell of that place and the roots that grow there . 
I was infinitely taken with the spirit of the maid . 
David Balfour is the name I am known by . 
This is my lucky day , when I have just come into a landed estate , and am not very long out of a deadly peril . 
I wish you would keep my name in mind for the sake of Balwhidder , said I , and I will yours for the sake of my lucky day . 
My name is not spoken , she replied , with a great deal of haughtiness . 
More than a hundred years it has not gone upon men's tongues , save for a blink . 
I am nameless , like the Folk of Peace . 
Catriona Drummond is the one I use . 
Now indeed I knew where I was standing . 
In all broad Scotland there was but the one name proscribed , and that was the name of the Macgregors . 
Yet so far from fleeing this undesirable acquaintancy , I plunged the deeper in . 
I have been sitting with one who was in the same case with yourself , said I , and I think he will be one of your friends . 
They called him Robin Oig . 
Did ye so ? cries she . 
Ye met Rob ? I passed the night with him , said I. He is a fowl of the night , said she . 
There was a set of pipes there , I went on , so you may judge if the time passed . 
You should be no enemy , at all events , said she . 
That was his brother there a moment since , with the red soldiers round him . 
It is him that I call father . 
was to do about ta sneeshin . 
I took some note of him for a short , bandy legged , red haired , big headed man , that I was to know more of to my cost . 
There can be none the day , Neil , she replied . 
Miss Drummond , I said , I told you I was in my lucky day . 
Here I am , and a bank porter at my tail . 
And remember I have had the hospitality of your own country of Balwhidder . 
It was not one of my people gave it , said she . 
said I , but I am owing your uncle at least for some springs upon the pipes . 
Besides which , I have offered myself to be your friend , and you have been so forgetful that you did not refuse me in the proper time . 
If it had been a great sum , it might have done you honour , said she but I will tell you what this is . 
James More lies shackled in prison but this time past they will be bringing him down here daily to the Advocate's . 
The Advocate's ! I cried . 
? It is the house of the Lord Advocate Grant of Prestongrange , said she . 
There they bring my father one time and another , for what purpose I have no thought in my mind but it seems there is some hope dawned for him . 
I took sixpence from my pocket , gave it to Neil , and bade him go about his errand . 
The one cannot be without the other , said she . 
Will I can trust you for that ? she asked . 
You need have little fear , said I. James More could not bear it else , said she . 
I think it was the bank porter that put me from this ungallant train of thought . 
I thoucht ye had been a lad of some kind o' sense , he began , shooting out his lips . 
Ye're no likely to gang far this gate . 
A fule and his siller's shune parted . 
Eh , but ye're a green callant ! he cried , an' a veecious , tae ! Cleikin' up wi' baubeejoes ! If you dare to speak of the young lady . 
Haud us and safe us , whatten leddy ? Ca' THON a leddy ? The toun's fu' o' them . 
Leddies ! Man , its weel seen ye're no very acquant in Embro ! A clap of anger took me . 
And we're a' gaun east and wast , we're a' gann ajee , We're a' gaun east and wast courtin' Mally Lee . 
CHAPTER II THE HIGHLAND WRITER MR . 
Awa' east and west wi' ye ! said I , took the money bag out of his hands , and followed the clerk in . 
The outer room was an office with the clerk's chair at a table spread with law papers . 
This pleased me little enough and what pleased me less , I thought the clerk was in a good posture to overhear what should pass between us . 
I asked if he was Mr. Charles Stewart the Writer . 
That you know well , I repeated , lowering my voice , but maybe are not just so keen to hear from at this present being . 
And the bits of business that I have to propone to you are rather in the nature of being confidential . 
In short , I would like to think we were quite private . 
He rose without more words , casting down his paper like a man ill pleased , sent forth his clerk of an errand , and shut to the house door behind him . 
A good name it is , and one it would ill become my father's son to lightly . 
But I begin to grue at the sound of it . 
My name is called Balfour , said I , David Balfour of Shaws . 
As for him that sent me , I will let his token speak . 
And I showed the silver button . 
Put it in your pocket , sir ! cries he . 
Ye need name no names . 
about the north side , where he was to lie until a ship was found for him and how and where he had appointed to be spoken with . 
I needn't ask your politics , said he . 
Ye need not , said I , smiling , for I'm as big a Whig as grows . 
Stop a bit , stop a bit , says Mr. Stewart . 
He's a forfeited rebel , the more's the pity , said I , for the man's my friend . 
I can only wish he had been better guided . 
And an accused murderer , that he is too , for his misfortune but wrongfully accused . 
I hear you say so , said Stewart . 
More than you are to hear me say so , before long , said I. Alan Breck is innocent , and so is James . 
Oh ! says he , the two cases hang together . 
If Alan is out , James can never be in . 
I wish had been plainer and less bloody . 
You can see for yourself , too , that I have certain pieces of business depending , which were scarcely fit to lay before a lawyer chosen at random . 
What are your instructions ? he added , and took up his pen . 
The first point is to smuggle Alan forth of this country , said I , but I need not be repeating that . 
I am little likely to forget it , said Stewart . 
The next thing is the bit money I am owing to Cluny , I went on . 
It would be ill for me to find a conveyance , but that should be no stick to you . 
It was two pounds five shillings and three halfpence farthing sterling . 
, it's a job you could doubtless overtake with the other . 
How much snuff are we to say ? he asked . 
I was thinking of two pounds , said I. Two , said he . 
Then there's the lass Alison Hastie , in Lime Kilns , said I. Her that helped Alan and me across the Forth . 
I am glad so see you are thrifty , Mr. Balfour , says he , making his notes . 
Only be sure you have enough , I added , for I am very undesirous to meet with you again . 
Well , and I'm pleased to see you're cautious , too , said the Writer . 
But I think ye take a risk to lay so considerable a sum at my discretion . 
He said this with a plain sneer . 
I'll have to run the hazard , I replied . 
O , and there's another service I would ask , and that's to direct me to a lodging , for I have no roof to my head . 
But it must be a lodging I may seem to have hit upon by accident , for it would never do if the Lord Advocate were to get any jealousy of our acquaintance . 
Ye may set your weary spirit at rest , said he . 
I will never name your name , sir and it's my belief the Advocate is still so much to be sympathised with that he doesnae ken of your existence . 
I saw I had got to the wrong side of the man . 
When ye CALL on him ! repeated Mr. Stewart . 
But I give you to understand once and for all that I am in no jesting spirit . 
Nor yet me , says Stewart . 
that I like the looks of your behaviour less and less . 
I would take it with a little more temper , said I , and perhaps we can avoid what you object to . 
For I think my traffic with his lordship is little likely to agree with my health . 
, and James's neck , which is the more immediate . 
He was silent for a breathing space , and then , My man , said he , you'll never be allowed to give such evidence . 
We'll have to see about that , said I I'm stiff necked when I like . 
I think better of the Advocate than that , said I. The Advocate be dammed ! cries he . 
They can put ye in the dock , do ye no see that ? he cried , and stabbed me with one finger in the leg . 
Ay , said I , I was told that same no further back than this morning by another lawyer . 
And who was he ? asked Stewart , He spoke sense at least . 
I told I must be excused from naming him , for he was a decent stout old Whig , and had little mind to be mixed up in such affairs . 
I think all the world seems to be mixed up in it ! cries Stewart . 
But what said you ? I told him what had passed between Rankeillor and myself before the house of Shaws . 
Well , and so ye will hang ! said he . 
Ye'll hang beside James Stewart . 
I hope better of it yet than that , said I but I could never deny there was a risk . 
Risk ! says he , and then sat silent again . 
I ought to thank you for you staunchness to my friends , to whom you show a very good spirit , he says , if you have the strength to stand by it . 
But I warn you that you're wading deep . 
for all the Stewarts that ever there were since Noah . 
It's a different way of thinking , I suppose , said I I was brought up to this one by my father before me . 
Glory to his bones ! he has left a decent son to his name , says he . 
Yet I would not have you judge me over sorely . 
My case is dooms hard . 
See , sir , ye tell me ye're a Whig I wonder what I am . 
No Whig to be sure I couldnae be just that . 
But laigh in your ear , man I'm maybe no very keen on the other side . 
Is that a fact ? cried I. It's what I would think of a man of your intelligence . 
Hut ! none of your whillywhas ! cries he . 
There's intelligence upon both sides . 
But for my private part I have no particular desire to harm King George and as for King James , God bless him ! he does very well for me across the water . 
Where do ye come in with your Hieland plaids and claymores ? Well , said I , it's a fact ye have little of the wild Highlandman . 
Nothing , man ! And yet I'm Hieland born , and when the clan pipes , who but me has to dance ! The clan and the name , that goes by all . 
It's just what you said yourself my father learned it to me , and a bonny trade I have of it . 
Then no later by than yesterday there was one of our Stewart lads carried to the Castle . 
What for ? I ken fine Act of recruiting for King Lewie . 
And that's what makes me think so much of ye you that's no Stewart to stick your head so deep in Stewart business . 
And for what , I do not know unless it was the sense of duty . 
I hope it will be that , said I. Well , says he , it's a grand quality . 
But here is my clerk back and , by your leave , we'll pick a bit of dinner , all the three of us . 
When that's done , I'll give you the direction of a very decent man , that'll be very fain to have you for a lodger . 
And I'll fill your pockets to ye , forbye , out of your ain bag . 
For this business'll not be near as dear as ye suppose not even the ship part of it . 
I made him a sign that his clerk was within hearing . 
Hoot , ye neednae mind for Robbie , cries he . 
A Stewart , too , puir deevil ! and has smuggled out more French recruits and trafficking Papists than what he has hairs upon his face . 
Why , it's Robin that manages that branch of my affairs . 
Who will we have now , Rob , for across the water ! There'll be Andie Scougal , in the THRISTLE , replied Rob . 
I saw Hoseason the other day , but it seems he's wanting the ship . 
Then there'll be Tam Stobo but I'm none so sure of Tam . 
I've seen him colloguing with some gey queer acquaintances and if was anybody important , I would give Tam the go by . 
The head's worth two hundred pounds , Robin , said Stewart . 
Gosh , that'll no be Alan Breck ! cried the clerk . 
Just Alan , said his master . 
Weary winds ! that's sayrious , cried Robin . 
I'll try Andie , then Andie'll be the best . 
It seems it's quite a big business , I observed . 
Mr. Balfour , there's no end to it , said Stewart . 
There was a name your clerk mentioned , I went on Hoseason . 
That must be my man , I think Hoseason , of the brig COVENANT . 
Would you set your trust on him ? He didnae behave very well to you and Alan , said Mr. Stewart but my mind of the man in general is rather otherwise . 
If he had taken Alan on board his ship on an agreement , it's my notion he would have proved a just dealer . 
How say ye , Rob ? No more honest skipper in the trade than Eli , said the clerk . 
I would lippen to Eli's word ay , if it was the Chevalier , or Appin himsel' , he added . 
And it was him that brought the doctor , wasnae't ? asked the master . 
He was the very man , said the clerk . 
And I think he took the doctor back ? says Stewart . 
Ay , with his sporran full ! cried Robin . 
What was I doing it for ? I asked , as I went down the high Street and out north by Leith Wynd . 
the most indifferent matter to my father's son , whether James died in his bed or from a scaffold . 
Nor could I forget that , while we were all in the pot together , James had shown no such particular anxiety whether for Alan or me . 
the main thing of all must still be justice , and the death of any innocent man a wound upon the whole community . 
But when I looked this argument full in the face I could see nothing to be ashamed of . 
As for the rest , Here are the two roads , I thought , and both go to the same place . 
It's unjust that James should hang if I can save him and it would be ridiculous in me to have talked so much and then do nothing . 
It's lucky for James of the Glens that I have boasted beforehand and none so unlucky for myself , because now I'm committed to do right . 
I have the name of a gentleman and the means of one it would be a poor duty that I was wanting in the essence . 
to stumble on the ladder of the gallows . 
It was a plain , fair morning , but the wind in the east . 
The little chill of it sang in my blood , and gave me a feeling of the autumn , and the dead leaves , and dead folks' bodies in their graves . 
It seemed the devil was in it , if I was to die in that tide of my fortunes and for other folks' affairs . 
On the top of the Calton Hill , though it was not the customary time of year for that diversion , some children were crying and running with their kites . 
My way lay over Mouter's Hill , and through an end of a clachan on the braeside among fields . 
Here I got a fresh direction for Pilrig , my destination and a little beyond , on the wayside , came by a gibbet and two men hanged in chains . 
They were dipped in tar , as the manner is the wind span them , the chains clattered , and the birds hung about the uncanny jumping jacks and cried . 
The sight coming on me suddenly , like an illustration of my fears , I could scarce be done with examining it and drinking in discomfort . 
Who are these two , mother ? I asked , and pointed to the corpses . 
A blessing on your precious face ! she cried . 
Twa joes o'mine just two o' my old joes , my hinny dear . 
What did they suffer for ? I asked . 
Ou , just for the guid cause , said she . 
Aften I spaed to them the way that it would end . 
Twa shillin' Scots no pickle mair and there are twa bonny callants hingin' for 't ! They took it frae a wean belanged to Brouchton . 
Gie's your loof , hinny , says she , and let me spae your weird to ye . 
No , mother , said I , I see far enough the way I am . 
It's an unco thing to see too far in front . 
I read it in your bree , she said . 
Gie's your loof , hinny , and let Auld Merren spae it to ye bonny . 
My way down the causeway of Leith Walk would have been more pleasant to me but for this encounter . 
from the sense of duty , once he was tarred and shackled and hung up , the difference seemed small . 
I saw them plain , and they had grey eyes , and their screens upon their heads were of the Drummed colours . 
He greeted me at first pretty well , and when he had read Rankeillor's letter , placed himself obligingly at my disposal . 
that you would be very little made up with it . 
I am sorry to hear this of you , kinsman , says he . 
My trouble is to have become dipped in a political complication , which it is judged you would be blythe to avoid a knowledge of . 
Why , very well , Mr. David , he replied , I am pleased to see you are all that Rankeillor represented . 
And for what you say of political complications , you do me no more than justice . 
It is my study to be beyond suspicion , and indeed outside the field of it . 
I have Rankeillor's word for it , said Mr. Balfour , and I count that a warran dice against all deadly . 
that I am a good churchman , loyal to King George , and so brought up , I went on . 
None of which will do you any harm , said Mr. Balfour . 
Then you might go on to say that I sought his lordship on a matter of great moment , connected with His Majesty's service and the administration of justice , I suggested . 
As I am not to hear the matter , says the laird , I will not take upon myself to qualify its weight . 
'Great moment' therefore falls , and 'moment' along with it . 
For the rest I might express myself much as you propose . 
Protection ? says he , for your protection ! Here is a phrase that somewhat dampens me . 
If the matter be so dangerous , I own I would be a little loath to move in it blindfold . 
I believe I could indicate in two words where the thing sticks , said I. Perhaps that would be the best , said he . 
Well , it's the Appin murder , said I. He held up both his hands . 
Sirs ! sirs ! cried he . 
I thought by the expression of his face and voice that I had lost my helper . 
I thank you kindly , I will hear no more of it , says he . 
I decline IN TOTO to hear more of it . 
For your name's sake and Rankeillor's , and perhaps a little for your own , I will do what I can to help you but I will hear no more upon the facts . 
And it is my first clear duty to warn you . 
These are deep waters , Mr. David , and you are a young man . 
Be cautious and think twice . 
he has registered his approval of that which I design . 
Well , well , said he and then again , Well , well ! I will do what I can for you . 
There with he took a pen and paper , sat a while in thought , and began to write with much consideration . 
I understand that Rankeillor approved of what you have in mind ? he asked presently . 
Presently , he signed , re read what he had written , and addressed me again . 
Now here , Mr. David , said he , is a letter of introduction , which I will seal without closing , and give into your hands open , as the form requires . 
MY LORD , This is to bring to your notice my namesake and cousin , David Balfour Esquire of Shaws , a young gentleman of unblemished descent and good estate . 
He has enjoyed , besides , the more valuable advantages of a godly training , and his political principles are all that your lordship can desire . 
I should add that the young gentleman's intention is known to and approved by some of his friends , who will watch with hopeful anxiety the event of his success or failure . 
Whereupon , continued Mr. Balfour , I have subscribed myself with the usual compliments . 
CHAPTER IV LORD ADVOCATE PRESTONGRANGE MY kinsman kept me to a meal , for the honour of the roof , he said and I believe I made the better speed on my return . 
At first I read , for the little cabinet where I was left contained a variety of books . 
, and pass the rest of my time of waiting in a very burthensome vacuity . 
The sound of people talking in a near chamber , the pleasant note of a harpsichord , and once the voice of a lady singing , bore me a kind of company . 
Is anybody there ? he asked . 
Who in that ? I am bearer of a letter from the laird of Pilrig to the Lord Advocate , said I. Have you been here long ? he asked . 
I would not like to hazard an estimate of how many hours , said I. It is the first I hear of it , he replied , with a chuckle . 
The lads must have forgotten you . 
But you are in the bit at last , for I am Prestongrange . 
I followed him , and where he lit a candle and took his place before a business table . 
It was a long room , of a good proportion , wholly lined with books . 
That small spark of light in a corner struck out the man's handsome person and strong face . 
He was flushed , his eye watered and sparkled , and before he sat down I observed him to sway back and forth . 
No doubt , he had been supping liberally but his mind and tongue were under full control . 
Well , sir , sit ye down , said he , and let us see Pilrig's letter . 
All this while you are to suppose my heart was beating , for I had now crossed my Rubicon and was come fairly on the field of battle . 
I am pleased to make your acquaintance , Mr. Balfour , he said , when he had done . 
Let me offer you a glass of claret . 
You shall be the judge , said he . 
But if you will permit , I believe I will even have the bottle in myself . 
He touched a bell , and a footman came , as at a signal , bringing wine and glasses . 
You are sure you will not join me ? asked the Advocate . 
I wish you would afford me a clue , says he . 
In what sense ? he inquired . 
What am I to understand ? said he . 
A TALL STRONG LAD OF ABOUT EIGHTEEN , I quoted , SPEAKS LIKE a LOWLANDER AND HAS NO BEARD . 
I recognise those words , said he , which , if you have come here with any ill judged intention of amusing yourself , are like to prove extremely prejudicial to your safety . 
My purpose in this , I replied , is just entirely as serious as life and death , and you have understood me perfectly . 
I am the boy who was speaking with Glenure when he was shot . 
that you claim to be innocent , said he . 
The inference is clear , I said . 
I am a very loyal subject to King George , but if I had anything to reproach myself with , I would have had more discretion than to walk into your den . 
I am glad of that , said he . 
This horrid crime , Mr. Balfour , is of a dye which cannot permit any clemency . 
Blood has been barbarously shed . 
It has been shed in direct opposition to his Majesty and our whole frame of laws , by those who are their known and public oppugnants . 
I take a very high sense of this . 
I will not deny that I consider the crime as directly personal to his Majesty . 
And unfortunately , my lord , I added , a little drily , directly personal to another great personage who may be nameless . 
Justice , in this country , and in my poor hands , is no respecter of persons . 
When you are come to more discretion you will understand such talk in not to be listened to , how much less repeated , says the Advocate . 
But I acquit you of an ill intention . 
That nobleman , whom we all honour , and who has indeed been wounded in a near place by the late barbarity , sits too high to be reached by these aspersions . 
So much he spoke with a very oratorical delivery , as if in court , and then declined again upon the manner of a gentleman . 
All this apart , said he . 
It now remains that I should learn what I am to do with you . 
I had thought it was rather I that should learn the same from your lordship , said I. Ay , true , says the Advocate . 
But , you see , you come to me well recommended . 
There is a good honest Whig name to this letter , says he , picking it up a moment from the table . 
Meaning how ? I asked . 
I saw what way he was driving . 
I suppose it is needless anyone should be informed upon my visit , said I , though the precise nature of my gains by that I cannot see . 
I am not at all ashamed of coming here . 
And have no cause to be , says he , encouragingly . 
My lord , said I , speaking under your correction , I am not very easy to be frightened . 
And I am sure I do not seek to frighten you , says he . 
But to the interrogation and let me warn you to volunteer nothing beyond the questions I shall ask you . 
It may consist very immediately with your safety . 
I have a great discretion , it is true , but there are bounds to it . 
I shall try to follow your lordship's advice , said I. He spread a sheet of paper on the table and wrote a heading . 
It appears you were present , by the way , in the wood of Lettermore at the moment of the fatal shot , he began . 
Was this by accident ? By accident , said I. How came you in speech with Colin Campbell ? he asked . 
I was inquiring my way of him to Aucharn , I replied . 
I observed he did not write this answer down . 
H'm , true , said he , I had forgotten that . 
And do you know , Mr. Balfour , I would dwell , if I were you , as little as might be on your relations with these Stewarts . 
It might be found to complicate our business . 
I am not yet inclined to regard these matters as essential . 
If we should ever come to be trying you , it will be very different and I shall press these very questions that I am now willing to glide upon . 
But to resume I have it here in Mr. Mungo Campbell's precognition that you ran immediately up the brae . 
How came that ? Not immediately , my lord , and the cause was my seeing of the murderer . 
You saw him , then ? As plain as I see your lordship , though not so near hand . 
You know him ? I should know him again . 
In your pursuit you were not so fortunate , then , as to overtake him ? I was not . 
Was he alone ? He was alone . 
There was no one else in that neighbourhood ? Alan Breck Stewart was not far off , in a piece of a wood . 
The Advocate laid his pen down . 
I think we are playing at cross purposes , said he , which you will find to prove a very ill amusement for yourself . 
I do appreciate your tenderness , but conceive it to be mistaken , I replied , with something of a falter , for I saw we were come to grips at last . 
I am here to lay before you certain information , by which I shall convince you Alan had no hand whatever in the killing of Glenure . 
The Advocate appeared for a moment at a stick , sitting with pursed lips , and blinking his eyes upon me like an angry cat . 
Mr. Balfour , he said at last , I tell you pointedly you go an ill way for your own interests . 
My lord , I said , I am as free of the charge of considering my own interests in this matter as your lordship . 
As God judges me , I have but the one design , and that is to see justice executed and the innocent go clear . 
If in pursuit of that I come to fall under your lordship's displeasure , I must bear it as I may . 
At this he rose from his chair , lit a second candle , and for a while gazed upon me steadily . 
I was surprised to see a great change of gravity fallen upon his face , and I could have almost thought he was a little pale . 
You are either very simple , or extremely the reverse , and I see that I must deal with you more confidentially , says he . 
To a political case , I need scarce tell a young man of your education , we approach with very different thoughts from one which is criminal only . 
I will open this out to you , if you will allow me , at more length . 
to employ his own imperfect language , and express his own poor thoughts , even when they have the misfortune not to coincide with Mr. Balfour's . 
You would have me to believe Breck innocent . 
I would think this of little account , the more so as we cannot catch our man . 
But the matter of Breck's innocence shoots beyond itself . 
the unmistakable original of the deed in question . 
I need not tell you that I mean James Stewart . 
your testimony will not be called by me , and I desire you to withhold it altogether . 
Patriotism is not always moral in the formal sense . 
For the same reason I repeat it to you in the same frank words I do not want your testimony . 
Prestongrange arose and began to pace to and fro in the room . 
You are not so young , he said , but what you must remember very clearly the year and the shock that went about the country . 
I read in Pilrig's letter that you are sound in Kirk and State . 
It was the Duke and the great clan of Campbell . 
Now here is a Campbell foully murdered , and that in the King's service . 
The Duke and I are Highlanders . 
But we are Highlanders civilised , and it is not so with the great mass of our clans and families . 
They have still savage virtues and defects . 
They are still barbarians , like these Stewarts only the Campbells were barbarians on the right side , and the Stewarts were barbarians on the wrong . 
Now be you the judge . 
If they do not get it if this man James escape there will be trouble with the Campbells . 
That means disturbance in the Highlands , which are uneasy and very far from being disarmed the disarming is a farce . 
You deal with me very frankly , and I thank you for it , said I. I will try on my side to be no less honest . 
I believe your policy to be sound . 
I believe these deep duties may lie upon your lordship I believe you may have laid them on your conscience when you took the oath of the high office which you hold . 
But for me , who am just a plain man or scarce a man yet the plain duties must suffice . 
I cannot see beyond , my lord . 
It's the way that I am made . 
If the country has to fall , it has to fall . 
And I pray God , if this be wilful blindness , that He may enlighten me before too late . 
He had heard me motionless , and stood so a while longer . 
This is an unexpected obstacle , says he , aloud , but to himself . 
And how is your lordship to dispose of me ? I asked . 
If I wished , said he , you know that you might sleep in gaol ? My lord , said I , I have slept in worse places . 
Well , my boy , said he , there is one thing appears very plainly from our interview , that I may rely on your pledged word . 
I had no thought to entrap you , said he . 
I am sure of that , said I. Let me see , he continued . 
To morrow is the Sabbath . 
Come to me on Monday by eight in the morning , and give me our promise until then . 
You will observe , he said next , that I have made no employment of menaces . 
It was like your lordship's nobility , said I. Yet I am not altogether so dull but what I can perceive the nature of those you have not uttered . 
Well , said he , good night to you . 
May you sleep well , for I think it is more than I am like to do . 
With that he sighed , took up a candle , and gave me his conveyance as far as the street door . 
of an assize of trial above all at the West Kirk , with its three tiers of galleries , where I went in the vain hope that I might see Miss Drummond . 
On the Monday I betook me for the first time to a barber's , and was very well pleased with the result . 
Thence to the Advocate's , where the red coats of the soldiers showed again about his door , making a bright place in the close . 
I looked about for the young lady and her gillies there was never a sign of them . 
I suppose it was partly this , and partly my strong continuing interest in his daughter , that moved me to accost him . 
Give you a good morning , sir , said I. And a good morning to you , sir , said he . 
You bide tryst with Prestongrange ? I asked . 
I do , sir , and I pray your business with that gentleman be more agreeable than mine , was his reply . 
It was not always so , sir , but times change . 
It was not so when the sword was in the scale , young gentleman , and the virtues of the soldier might sustain themselves . 
There came a kind of Highland snuffle out of the man that raised my dander strangely . 
Well , Mr. Macgregor , said I , I understand the main thing for a soldier is to be silent , and the first of his virtues never to complain . 
You have my name , I perceive he bowed to me with his arms crossed though it's one I must not use myself . 
Well , there is a publicity I have shown my face and told my name too often in the beards of my enemies . 
I must not wonder if both should be known to many that I know not . 
That you know not in the least , sir , said I , nor yet anybody else but the name I am called , if you care to hear it , is Balfour . 
It is a good name , he replied , civilly there are many decent folk that use it . 
And now that I call to mind , there was a young gentleman , your namesake , that marched surgeon in the year with my battalion . 
I believe that would be a brother to Balfour of Baith , said I , for I was ready for the surgeon now . 
The same , sir , said James More . 
And since I have been fellow soldier with your kinsman , you must suffer me to grasp your hand . 
He shook hands with me long and tenderly , beaming on me the while as though he had found a brother . 
Ah ! says he , these are changed days since your cousin and I heard the balls whistle in our lugs . 
I think he was a very far away cousin , said I , drily , and I ought to tell you that I never clapped eyes upon the man . 
Well , well , said he , it makes no change . 
And you I do not think you were out yourself , sir I have no clear mind of your face , which is one not probable to be forgotten . 
In the year you refer to , Mr. Macgregor , I was getting skelped in the parish school , said I. So young ! cries he . 
Ah , then , you will never be able to think what this meeting is to me . 
I have lived in my own country like a king my sword , my mountains , and the faith of my friends and kinsmen sufficed for me . 
I lie , as you know , sir , on a trumped up charge , of which I am as innocent as yourself . 
They dare not bring me to my trial , and in the meanwhile I am held naked in my prison . 
I could have wished it was your cousin I had met , or his brother Baith himself . 
in Scotland stood together by a window . 
And here , says he , turning to the three younger ladies , here are my THREE BRAW DAUCHTERS . 
brought shame into my own check . 
It seemed to me a citation unpardonable in a father , and I was amazed that these ladies could laugh even while they reproved , or made believe to . 
Under cover of this mirth , Prestongrange got forth of the chamber , and I was left , like a fish upon dry land , in that very unsuitable society . 
Reasoning would not change the fact and there were times when the colour came into my face to think I was shaved that day for the first time . 
I never heard a note of it , said she . 
And now once again , she added , after I had done so . 
And then again I am Miss Grant , sib to the Advocate You , I believe , are Dauvit Balfour . 
I told her how much astonished I was by her genius . 
And what do you call the name of it ? she asked . 
I do not know the real name , said I. I just call it ALAN'S AIR . 
She looked at me directly in the face . 
Your other name I do not like so if you was ever wishing to hear your tune again you are to ask for it by mine . 
This was said with a significance that gave my heart a jog . 
Why that , Miss Grant ? I asked . 
Why , says she , if ever you should come to get hanged , I will set your last dying speech and confession to that tune and sing it . 
This put it beyond a doubt that she was partly informed of my story and peril . 
How , or just how much , it was more difficult to guess . 
was to put an end to the present conversation . 
I stood beside her , affecting to listen and admire , but truly whirled away by my own thoughts . 
I have always found this young lady to be a lover of the mysterious and certainly this first interview made a mystery that was beyond my plummet . 
Hence this broad hint that was given me across the harpsichord . 
The whole family trooped there at once , and crowded one another for a look . 
The window whither they ran was in an odd corner of that room , gave above the entrance door , and flanked up the close . 
Come , Mr. Balfour , they cried , come and see . 
She is the most beautiful creature ! She hangs round the close head these last days , always with some wretched like gillies , and yet seems quite a lady . 
I had no need to look neither did I look twice , or long . 
But even that glance set me in a better conceit of myself and much less awe of the young ladies . 
They were beautiful , that was beyond question , but Catriona was beautiful too , and had a kind of brightness in her like a coal of fire . 
As much as the others cast me down , she lifted me up . 
I remembered I had talked easily with her . 
If I could make no hand of it with these fine maids , it was perhaps something their own fault . 
Presently papa returned , the same kind , happy like , pleasant spoken man . 
So they each made me a little farthing compliment , and I was led away . 
If this visit to the family had been meant to soften my resistance , it was the worst of failures . 
Well , I was to be served to my desire , for the scene to which he was conducting me was of a different character . 
CHAPTER VI UMQUILE THE MASTER OF LOVAT THERE was a man waiting us in Prestongrange's study , whom I distasted at the first look , as we distaste a ferret or an earwig . 
The Advocate presented us in a familiar , friendly way . 
Here , Fraser , said he , here is Mr. Balfour whom we talked about . 
Mr. David , this is Mr. Simon Fraser , whom we used to call by another title , but that is an old song . 
Mr. Fraser has an errand to you . 
With that he stepped aside to his book shelves , and made believe to consult a quarto volume in the far end . 
alone with perhaps the last person in the world I had expected . 
There was no doubt upon the terms of introduction this could be no other than the forfeited Master of Lovat and chief of the great clan Fraser . 
The guilt of Breck is manifest and your testimony , in which you admit you saw him on the hill at the very moment , will certify his hanging . 
It will be rather ill to hang him till you catch him , I observed . 
And for other matters I very willingly leave you to your own impressions . 
The Duke has been informed , he went on . 
I have just come from his Grace , and he expressed himself before me with an honest freedom like the great nobleman he is . 
Gratitude is no empty expression in that mouth EXPERTO CREDE . 
I daresay you know something of my name and clan , and the damnable example and lamented end of my late father , to say nothing of my own errata . 
Doubtless a proud position for your father's son , says I. He wagged his bald eyebrows at me . 
You are pleased to make experiments in the ironical , I think , said he . 
But I am here upon duty , I am here to discharge my errand in good faith , it is in vain you think to divert me . 
And let me tell you , for a young fellow of spirit and ambition like yourself , a good shove in the beginning will do more than ten years' drudgery . 
The shove is now at your command choose what you will to be advanced in , the Duke will watch upon you with the affectionate disposition of a father . 
This has been made a test case , all who would prosper in the future must put a shoulder to the wheel . 
But I think , sir , that you forfeited your choice when you mixed in with that unnatural rebellion , I remarked . 
My case is happily otherwise I am a true man , and can look either the Duke or King George in the face without concern . 
Is it so the wind sits ? says he . 
I protest you are fallen in the worst sort of error . 
as not to combat your allegations but you must not think they are not looked upon with strong suspicion . 
You say you are innocent . 
My dear sir , the facts declare you guilty . 
I have found the key of your impudent heart . 
You look pale , your eyes waver , Mr. David ! You see the grave and the gallows nearer by than you had fancied . 
I own to a natural weakness , said I. I think no shame for that . 
Shame waits for you on the gibbet , he broke in . 
My father suffered in a great cause , and for dealing in the affairs of kings . 
You are to hang for a dirty murder about boddle pieces . 
Your personal part in it , the treacherous one of holding the poor wretch in talk , your accomplices a pack of ragged Highland gillies . 
You see I know more than you fancied , he resumed in triumph . 
And as for giving it this turn , great Mr. David , you must not suppose the Government of Great Britain and Ireland will ever be stuck for want of evidence . 
We have men here in prison who will swear out their lives as we direct them as I direct , if you prefer the phrase . 
So now you are to guess your part of glory if you choose to die . 
And see here ! he cried , with a formidable shrill voice , see this paper that I pull out of my pocket . 
Look at the name there it is the name of the great David , I believe , the ink scarce dry yet . 
Can you guess its nature ? It is the warrant for your arrest , which I have but to touch this bell beside me to have executed on the spot . 
Mr. Simon had already gloried in the changes of my hue I make no doubt I was now no ruddier than my shirt my speech besides trembled . 
There is a gentleman in this room , cried I. I appeal to him . 
I put my life and credit in his hands . 
Prestongrange shut his book with a snap . 
I told you so , Simon , said he you have played your hand for all it was worth , and you have lost . 
Mr. David , he went on , I wish you to believe it was by no choice of mine you were subjected to this proof . 
I wish you could understand how glad I am you should come forth from it with so much credit . 
You may not quite see how , but it is a little of a service to myself . 
And I know our friend Simon to be ambitious , says he , striking lightly on Fraser's shoulder . 
I could not but wonder what would be their next expedient . 
Well , well , said he , we must try to save them . 
And in the meanwhile let us return to gentler methods . 
You must not bear any grudge upon my friend , Mr. Simon , who did but speak by his brief . 
These are greatly engaged to see more of you , and I cannot consent to have my young womenfolk disappointed . 
To morrow they will be going to Hope Park , where I think it very proper you should make your bow . 
of Mr. Simon rang in my memory , as a sudden noise rings after it is over in the ear . 
Each time it occurred to me , the ingenious foulness of that calumny he had proposed to nail upon my character startled me afresh . 
The case of the man upon the gibbet by Leith Walk appeared scarce distinguishable from that I was now to consider as my own . 
The voices of two of Prestongrange's liveried men upon his doorstep recalled me to myself . 
Ha'e , said the one , this billet as fast as ye can link to the captain . 
Is that for the cateran back again ? asked the other . 
It would seem sae , returned the first . 
Him and Simon are seeking him . 
I think Prestongrange is gane gyte , says the second . 
He'll have James More in bed with him next . 
Weel , it's neither your affair nor mine's , said the first . 
And they parted , the one upon his errand , and the other back into the house . 
This looked as ill as possible . 
My scalp curdled among my hair , and the next moment the blood leaped in me to remember Catriona . 
Poor lass ! her father stood to be hanged for pretty indefensible misconduct . 
I began to walk swiftly and at random , conscious only of a desire for movement , air , and the open country . 
CHAPTER VII I MAKE A FAULT IN HONOUR I CAME forth , I vow I know not how , on the LANG DYKES . 
This is a rural road which runs on the north side over against the city . 
I sat by the lake side in a place where the rushes went down into the water , and there steeped my wrists and laved my temples . 
If I could have done so with any remains of self esteem , I would now have fled from my foolhardy enterprise . 
I decided I was ventured out beyond the possibility of a retreat . 
I had out faced these men , I would continue to out face them come what might , I would stand by the word spoken . 
The sense of my own constancy somewhat uplifted my spirits , but not much . 
At the best of it there was an icy place about my heart , and life seemed a black business to be at all engaged in . 
For two souls in particular my pity flowed . 
The one was myself , to be so friendless and lost among dangers . 
The other was the girl , the daughter of James More . 
I had seen but little of her yet my view was taken and my judgment made . 
It made a bond in my thoughts betwixt the girl and me . 
I reflected it was hard I should be so plagued and persecuted all my days for other folks' affairs , and have no manner of pleasure myself . 
I got meals and a bed to sleep in when my concerns would suffer it beyond that my wealth was of no help to me . 
The exercise of walking and the thought of my destination braced me yet more , so that I began to pluck up a kind of spirit . 
What do ye come seeking here ? she asked . 
I told her I was after Miss Drummond . 
And what may be your business with Miss Drummond ? says she . 
I told her I had met her on Saturday last , had been so fortunate as to render her a trifling service , and was come now on the young lady's invitation . 
O , so you're Saxpence ! she cried , with a very sneering manner . 
A braw gift , a bonny gentleman . 
And hae ye ony ither name and designation , or were ye bapteesed Saxpence ? she asked . 
Preserve me ! she cried . 
Has Ebenezer gotten a son ? No , ma'am , said I. I am a son of Alexander's . 
It's I that am the Laird of Shaws . 
Ye'll find your work cut out for ye to establish that , quoth she . 
I perceive you know my uncle , said I and I daresay you may be the better pleased to hear that business is arranged . 
And what brings ye here after Miss Drummond ? she pursued . 
I'm come after my saxpence , mem , said I. It's to be thought , being my uncle's nephew , I would be found a careful lad . 
So ye have a spark of sleeness in ye ? observed the old lady , with some approval . 
But all this is by the purpose , she resumed . 
Am I to understand that ye come here keeping company ? This is surely rather an early question , said I. The maid is young , so am I , worse fortune . 
I have but seen her the once . 
That is one thing but it would be quite another , and I think I would look very like a fool , to commit myself . 
You can speak out of your mouth , I see , said the old lady . 
Lasses are bruckle things , she added , with a nod and though ye would never think it by my wrunkled chafts , I was a lassie mysel' , and a bonny one . 
You give me rather a home thrust when you ask if I would marry , at the gallow's foot , a young lady whom I have seen but once . 
I have told you already I would never be so untenty as to commit myself . 
And yet I'll go some way with you . 
I have heard this kind of talk before ye were born , said Mrs. Ogilvy , which is perhaps the reason that I think of it so little . 
There's much to be considered . 
This James More is a kinsman of mine , to my shame be it spoken . 
But the better the family , the mair men hanged or headed , that's always been poor Scotland's story . 
And if it was just the hanging ! For my part I think I would be best pleased with James upon the gallows , which would be at least an end to him . 
Catrine's a good lass enough , and a good hearted , and lets herself be deaved all day with a runt of an auld wife like me . 
But , ye see , there's the weak bit . 
And you might think ye could guide her , ye would find yourself sore mista'en . 
Ye say ye've seen her but the once . 
Spoke with her but the once , I should have said , I interrupted . 
I saw her again this morning from a window at Prestongrange's . 
This I daresay I put in because it sounded well but I was properly paid for my ostentation on the return . 
What's this of it ? cries the old lady , with a sudden pucker of her face . 
I think it was at the Advocate's door cheek that ye met her first . 
I told her that was so . 
H'm , she said and then suddenly , upon rather a scolding tone , I have your bare word for it , she cries , as to who and what you are . 
By your way of it , you're Balfour of the Shaws but for what I ken you may be Balfour of the Deevil's oxter . 
But I'm not just a good enough Whig to be made a fool of neither . 
And I tell you fairly , there's too much Advocate's door and Advocate's window here for a man that comes taigling after a Macgregor's daughter . 
Ye can tell that to the Advocate that sent ye , with my fond love . 
And I kiss my loof to ye , Mr. Balfour , says she , suiting the action to the word and a braw journey to ye back to where ye cam frae . 
If you think me a spy , I broke out , and speech stuck in my throat . 
I stood and looked murder at the old lady for a space , then bowed and turned away . 
Here ! Hoots ! The callant's in a creel ! she cried . 
A bonny figure I would be with a broadsword . 
Ay ! ay ! she went on , you're none such a bad lad in your way I think ye'll have some redeeming vices . 
But , O ! Davit Balfour , ye're damned countryfeed . 
But that can never be . 
To your last day you'll ken no more of women folk than what I do of sow gelding . 
Forbye that I have nobody but myself to look after my reputation , and have been long enough alone with a sedooctive youth . 
And come back another day for your saxpence ! she cried after me as I left . 
My skirmish with this disconcerting lady gave my thoughts a boldness they had otherwise wanted . 
I wondered at myself that I could dwell on such considerations in that time of my peril and disgrace and when I remembered my youth I was ashamed . 
My education spoke home to me sharply I was never brought up on sugar biscuits but on the hard food of the truth . 
When I was in the midst of these thoughts and about half way back to town I saw a figure coming to meet me , and the trouble of my heart was heightened . 
O ! she cried , you have been seeking your sixpence did you get it ? I told her no but now I had met with her my walk was not in vain . 
Though I have seen you to day already , said I , and told her where and when . 
I did not see you , she said . 
My eyes are big , but there are better than mine at seeing far . 
Only I heard singing in the house . 
That was Miss Grant , said I , the eldest and the bonniest . 
They say they are all beautiful , said she . 
They think the same of you , Miss Drummond , I replied , and were all crowding to the window to observe you . 
It is a pity about my being so blind , said she , or I might have seen them too . 
And you were in the house ? You must have been having the fine time with the fine music and the pretty ladies . 
There is just where you are wrong , said I for I was as uncouth as a sea fish upon the brae of a mountain . 
The truth is that I am better fitted to go about with rudas men than pretty ladies . 
Well , I would think so too , at all events ! said she , at which we both of us laughed . 
It is a strange thing , now , said I. I am not the least afraid with you , yet I could have run from the Miss Grants . 
And I was afraid of your cousin too . 
O , I think any man will be afraid of her , she cried . 
My father is afraid of her himself . 
The name of her father brought me to a stop . 
Speaking of which , said I , I met your father no later than this morning . 
Did you ? she cried , with a voice of joy that seemed to mock at me . 
She gave me a look of mere gratitude . 
Ah , thank you for that ! says she . 
You thank me for very little , said I , and then stopped . 
But it seemed when I was holding back so much , something at least had to come out . 
I spoke rather ill to him , said I I did no like him very much I spoke him rather ill , and he was angry . 
I think you had little to do then , and less to tell it to his daughter ! she cried out . 
But those that do not love and cherish him I will not know . 
I will take the freedom of a word yet , said I , beginning to tremble . 
Perhaps neither your father nor I are in the best of spirits at Prestongrange's . 
I daresay we both have anxious business there , for it's a dangerous house . 
I was sorry for him too , and spoke to him the first , if I could but have spoken the wiser . 
And for one thing , in my opinion , you will soon find that his affairs are mending . 
It will not be through your friendship , I am thinking , said she and he is much made up to you for your sorrow . 
Miss Drummond , cried I , I am alone in this world . 
And I am not wondering at that , said she . 
O , let me speak ! said I. I will speak but the once , and then leave you , if you will , for ever . 
I came this day in the hopes of a kind word that I am sore in want of . 
I know that what I said must hurt you , and I knew it then . 
I think we will have met but the once , and will can part like gentle folk . 
O , let me have one to believe in me ! I pleaded , I cannae bear it else . 
The whole world is clanned against me . 
How am I to go through with my dreadful fate ? If there's to be none to believe in me I cannot do it . 
The man must just die , for I cannot do it . 
She had still looked straight in front of her , head in air but at my words or the tone of my voice she came to a stop . 
What is this you say ? she asked . 
What are you talking of ? It is my testimony which may save an innocent life , said I , and they will not suffer me to bear it . 
What would you do yourself ? You know what this is , whose father lies in danger . 
Would you desert the poor soul ? They have tried all ways with me . 
They have sought to bribe me they offered me hills and valleys . 
And to day that sleuth hound told me how I stood , and to what a length he would go to butcher and disgrace me . 
I am to be brought in a party to the murder I am to have held Glenure in talk for money and old clothes I am to be killed and shamed . 
I poured my words out in a whirl , one upon the other and when I stopped I found her gazing on me with a startled face . 
Glenure ! It is the Appin murder , she said softly , but with a very deep surprise . 
I had turned back to bear her company , and we were now come near the head of the brae above Dean village . 
At this word I stepped in front of her like one suddenly distracted . 
For God's sake ! I cried , for God's sake , what is this that I have done ? and carried my fists to my temples . 
What made me do it ? Sure , I am bewitched to say these things ! In the name of heaven , what ails you now ! she cried . 
I gave my honour , I groaned , I gave my honour and now I have broke it . 
O , I knew you would be true ! said I. It's me it's here . 
Where is my word now ? Who could believe me now ? You could not believe me . 
I am clean fallen down I had best die ! All this I said with a weeping voice , but I had no tears in my body . 
My heart is sore for you , said she , but be sure you are too nice . 
I would not believe you , do you say ? I would trust you with anything . 
And these men ? I would not be thinking of them ! Men who go about to entrap and to destroy you ! Fy ! this is no time to crouch . 
It is the world I am thinking of you , Mr. David Balfour . 
Let them hang you I will never forget , I will grow old and still remember you . 
I think it is great to die so I will envy you that gallows . 
And maybe all this while I am but a child frighted with bogles , said I. Maybe they but make a mock of me . 
It is what I must know , she said . 
I must hear the whole . 
The harm is done at all events , and I must hear the whole . 
My torture ! says she , look at the sun ! Indeed , it was already dipping towards the mountains . 
She bid me come again soon , gave me her hand , and left me in a turmoil of glad spirits . 
Come , I take that kind of you . 
I take that kind of you , Mr. David . 
O , we shall do very well yet , and I believe your troubles are nearly at an end . 
You have news for me ? cried I. Beyond anticipation , he replied . 
I was too much amazed to find words . 
In the meanwhile , he continued , though I will not ask you to renew your pledge , I must caution you strictly to be reticent . 
To morrow your precognition must be taken and outside of that , do you know , I think least said will be soonest mended . 
I shall try to go discreetly , said I. I believe it is yourself that I must thank for this crowning mercy , and I do thank you gratefully . 
After yesterday , my lord , this is like the doors of Heaven . 
I cannot find it in my heart to get the thing believed . 
The matter is much changed . 
the councils of the Government and you must content yourself , if you please , with the gross fact . 
There is a point I wish to touch upon , he began . 
I purposely left it before upon one side , which need be now no longer necessary . 
This is not , of course , a part of your examination , which is to follow by another hand this is a private interest of my own . 
You say you encountered Alan Breck upon the hill ? I did , my lord , said I This was immediately after the murder ? It was . 
Did you speak to him ? I did . 
You had known him before , I think ? says my lord , carelessly . 
I cannot guess your reason for so thinking , my lord , I replied , but such in the fact . 
And when did you part with him again ? said he . 
I reserve my answer , said I. The question will be put to me at the assize . 
You are therefore clear of all anxiety . 
There are a great many different considerations all pointing the same way and I will never be persuaded that you could not help us to put salt on Alan's tail . 
My lord , said I , I give you my word I do not so much as guess where Alan is . 
Nor how he might be found ? he asked . 
I sat before him like a log of wood . 
And so much for your gratitude , Mr. David ! he observed . 
Again there was a piece of silence . 
Well , said he , rising , I am not fortunate , and we are a couple at cross purposes . 
Let us speak of it no more you will receive notice when , where , and by whom , we are to take your precognition . 
And in the meantime , my misses must be waiting you . 
They will never forgive me if I detain their cavalier . 
Into the hands of these Graces I was accordingly offered up , and found them dressed beyond what I had thought possible , and looking fair as a posy . 
As we went forth from the doors a small circumstance occurred which came afterwards to look extremely big . 
The next moment he was gone again , nor could I see so much as the skirt tail of Catriona , upon whom I naturally supposed him to be then attending . 
who crowded to attend upon these beauties and though I was presented to all of them in very good words , it seemed I was by all immediately forgotten . 
Some of the advocates set up to be wits , and some of the soldiers to be rattles and I could not tell which of these extremes annoyed me most . 
I could have kicked them from the park . 
From these I was recalled by one of the officers , Lieutenant Hector Duncansby , a gawky , leering Highland boy , asking if my name was not Palfour . 
I told him it was , not very kindly , for his manner was scant civil . 
No , says he , but I wass thinking . 
I would not advise you to make a practice of that , sir , says I. I feel sure you would not find it to agree with you . 
Tit you effer hear where Alan Grigor fand the tangs ? said he . 
There could be no mistake about this , and my cheek burned . 
Before I went about to put affronts on gentlemen , said I , I think I would learn the English language first . 
He took me by the sleeve with a nod and a wink and led me quietly outside Hope Park . 
But no sooner were we beyond the view of the promenaders , than the fashion of his countenance changed . 
You tam lowland scoon'rel ! cries he , and hit me a buffet on the jaw with his closed fist . 
I paid him as good or better on the return whereupon he stepped a little back and took off his hat to me decorously . 
Enough plows I think , says he . 
Will ye walk first , or let me show ye the way ? I returned his bow , told him to go first , and followed him . 
As he went I heard him grumble to himself about COT'S ENGLISH and the KING'S COAT , so that I might have supposed him to be seriously offended . 
But his manner at the beginning of our interview was there to belie him . 
manifest enough that I should be the one to fall in our encounter . 
So that , taking all in all , I continued marching behind him , much as a man follows the hangman , and certainly with no more hope . 
We went about the end of the long craigs , and came into the Hunter's Bog . 
Here , on a piece of fair turf , my adversary drew . 
There was nobody there to see us but some birds and no resource for me but to follow his example , and stand on guard with the best face I could display . 
Fat deil ails her ? cries the lieutenant . 
And suddenly engaging , he twitched the sword out of my grasp and sent it flying far among the rushes . 
I am fery prave myself , and pold as a lions . 
But to stand up there and you ken naething of fence ! the way that you did , I declare it was peyond me . 
And I am sorry for the plow though I declare I pelief your own was the elder brother , and my heid still sings with it . 
And I declare if I had kent what way it wass , I would not put a hand to such a piece of pusiness . 
That is handsomely said , I replied , and I am sure you will not stand up a second time to be the actor for my private enemies . 
That will be the true service . 
For though he has sent me a gallant adversary for the first , the thought in Mr. Simon's mind is merely murder . 
And I would not like it myself , if I was no more of a man than what you wass ! he cried . 
But I will do you right , Palfour . 
Lead on ! If I had walked slowly on the way into that accursed park my heels were light enough on the way out . 
They kept time to a very good old air , that is as ancient as the Bible , and the words of it are SURELY THE BITTERNESS OF DEATH IS PASSED . 
I mind that I was extremely thirsty , and had a drink at Saint Margaret's well on the road down , and the sweetness of that water passed belief . 
We went through the sanctuary , up the Canongate , in by the Netherbow , and straight to Prestongrange's door , talking as we came and arranging the details of our affair . 
The footman owned his master was at home , but declared him engaged with other gentlemen on very private business , and his door forbidden . 
Well , well , Mr. Balfour , and what brings you here again ? and who is this you bring with you ? says Prestongrange . 
As for Fraser , he looked before him on the table . 
He is here to bear a little testimony in my favour , my lord , which I think it very needful you should hear , said I , and turned to Duncansby . 
And I have creat respects for Palfour , he added . 
I thank you for your honest expressions , said I. Whereupon Duncansby made his bow to the company , and left the chamber , as we had agreed upon before . 
What have I to do with this ? says Prestongrange . 
I will tell your lordship in two words , said I. I have brought this gentleman , a King's officer , to do me so much justice . 
I will not consent to fight my way through the garrison of the castle . 
The veins swelled on Prestongrange's brow , and he regarded me with fury . 
I spy your hand in the business , and , let me tell you , I resent it . 
It is disloyal , when we are agreed upon one expedient , to follow another in the dark . 
You are disloyal to me . 
What ! you let me send this lad to the place with my very daughters ! And because I let drop a word to you . 
Fy , sir , keep your dishonours to yourself ! Simon was deadly pale . 
I will be a kick ball between you and the Duke no longer , he exclaimed . 
Either come to an agreement , or come to a differ , and have it out among yourselves . 
But I will no longer fetch and carry , and get your contrary instructions , and be blamed by both . 
For if I were to tell you what I think of all your Hanover business it would make your head sing . 
But Sheriff Erskine had preserved his temper , and now intervened smoothly . 
And in the meantime , says he , I think we should tell Mr. Balfour that his character for valour is quite established . 
He may sleep in peace . 
Until the date he was so good as to refer to it shall be put to the proof no more . 
His coolness brought the others to their prudence and they made haste , with a somewhat distracted civility , to pack me from the house . 
CHAPTER IX THE HEATHER ON FIRE WHEN I left Prestongrange that afternoon I was for the first time angry . 
The Advocate had made a mock of me . 
Prestongrange himself had some design in operation . 
One thing was requisite some strong friend or wise adviser . 
a gentleman brushed against me going by , gave me a meaning look , and turned into a close . 
I knew him with the tail of my eye it was Stewart the Writer and , blessing my good fortune , turned in to follow him . 
As soon as I had entered the close I saw him standing in the mouth of a stair , where he made me a signal and immediately vanished . 
Seven storeys up , there he was again in a house door , the which he looked behind us after we had entered . 
The house was quite dismantled , with not a stick of furniture indeed , it was one of which Stewart had the letting in his hands . 
We'll have to sit upon the floor , said he but we're safe here for the time being , and I've been wearying to see ye , Mr. Balfour . 
How's it with Alan ? I asked . 
Andie picks him up at Gillane sands to morrow , Wednesday . 
He was keen to say good bye to ye , but the way that things were going , I was feared the pair of ye was maybe best apart . 
Hout awa ! cried Stewart . 
I have maybe a suspicion of my own , says I , but I would like fine to hear your reasons . 
Well , I tell ye fairly , I'm horn mad , cries Stewart . 
If my one hand could pull their Government down I would pluck it like a rotten apple . 
I'm doer for Appin and for James of the Glens and , of course , it's my duty to defend my kinsman for his life . 
Hear how it goes with me , and I'll leave the judgment of it to yourself . 
The first thing they have to do is to get rid of Alan . 
They cannae bring in James as art and part until they've brought in Alan first as principal that's sound law they could never put the cart before the horse . 
And how are they to bring in Alan till they can catch him ? says I. Ah , but there is a way to evite that arrestment , said he . 
AT THE CROSS OF EDINBURGH , AND THE PIER AND SHORE OF LEITH , FOR SIXTY DAYS . 
Now take the case of Alan . 
it must be evident to the most dull it's what he's aiming for . 
Where , then , and what way should he be summoned ? I ask it at yourself , a layman . 
You have given the very words , said I. Here at the cross , and at the pier and shore of Leith , for sixty days . 
Ye're a sounder Scots lawyer than Prestongrange , then ! cries the Writer . 
He has had Alan summoned once that was on the twenty fifth , the day that we first met . 
Once , and done with it . 
And where ? Where , but at the cross of Inverary , the head burgh of the Campbells ? A word in your ear , Mr. Balfour they're not seeking Alan . 
What do you mean ? I cried . 
Not seeking him ? By the best that I can make of it , said he . 
Not wanting to find him , in my poor thought . 
They think perhaps he might set up a fair defence , upon the back of which James , the man they're really after , might climb out . 
This is not a case , ye see , it's a conspiracy . 
Yet I can tell you Prestongrange asked after Alan keenly , said I though , when I come to think of it , he was something of the easiest put by . 
See that ! says he . 
But there ! I may be right or wrong , that's guesswork at the best , and let me get to my facts again . 
The witnesses , Mr. Balfour heard ye ever the match of that ? I assure ye , no old , crooked Stewart of the gang ever out faced the law more impudently . 
It's clean in the two eyes of the Act of Parliament of , anent wrongous imprisonment . 
No sooner did I get the news than I petitioned the Lord Justice Clerk . 
I have his word to day . 
of James's poor widow and five children . 
See , said Stewart , he couldn't dare to refuse me access to my client , so he RECOMMENDS THE COMMANDING OFFICER TO LET ME IN . 
Recommends ! the Lord Justice Clerk of Scotland recommends . 
Is not the purpose of such language plain ? They hope the officer may be so dull , or so very much the reverse , as to refuse the recommendation . 
I would have to make the journey back again betwixt here and Fort William . 
Then the journey a third time and there we should be on the immediate heels of the trial before I had received my first instruction . 
Am I not right to call this a conspiracy ? It will bear that colour , said I. And I'll go on to prove it you outright , said he . 
They have the right to hold James in prison , yet they cannot deny me to visit him . 
Anything contrary ! Sirs ! And the Act of seventeen hunner ? Mr. Balfour , this makes my heart to burst the heather is on fire inside my wame . 
It was actually so it was actually on the wayside near Tynedrum , and by the connivance of a soldier officer , that Mr. Stewart first saw the witnesses upon the case . 
There is nothing that would surprise me in this business , I remarked . 
I'll surprise you ere I'm done ! cries he . 
Do ye see this ? producing a print still wet from the press . 
This is the libel see , there's Prestongrange's name to the list of witnesses , and I find no word of any Balfour . 
But here is not the question . 
Who do ye think paid for the printing of this paper ? I suppose it would likely be King George , said I. But it happens it was me ! he cried . 
Not but it was printed by and for themselves , for the Grants and the Erskines , and yon thief of the black midnight , Simon Fraser . 
Is not this against the law ? I asked I cannot say so much , he replied . 
that the law has never looked to it . 
And now admire the hand of Providence ! A stranger is in Fleming's printing house , spies a proof on the floor , picks it up , and carries it to me . 
Of all things , it was just this libel . 
It was now my turn . 
I laid before him in brief Mr. Simon's threats and offers , and the whole incident of the bravo , with the subsequent scene at Prestongrange's . 
Of my first talk , according to promise , I said nothing , nor indeed was it necessary . 
Disappear yourself , said he . 
I do not take you , said I. Then I'll carry you there , said he . 
By my view of it you're to disappear whatever . 
O , that's outside debate . 
The Advocate , who is not without some spunks of a remainder decency , has wrung your life safe out of Simon and the Duke . 
Ye're not to be tried then , and ye're not to be murdered but I'm in bitter error if ye're not to be kidnapped and carried away like the Lady Grange . 
Bet me what ye please there was their EXPEDIENT ! You make me think , said I , and told him of the whistle and the red headed retainer , Neil . 
Wherever James More is there's one big rogue , never be deceived on that , said he . 
I like the appearance of this red headed Neil as little as yourself . 
It looks uncanny fiegh ! it smells bad . 
It was old Lovat that managed the Lady Grange affair if young Lovat is to handle yours , it'll be all in the family . 
What's James More in prison for ? The same offence abduction . 
His men have had practice in the business . 
Ye make a strong case , I admitted . 
And what I want , he resumed , is that you should disappear yourself ere they can get their hands upon ye . 
Lie quiet until just before the trial , and spring upon them at the last of it when they'll be looking for you least . 
This is always supposing Mr. Balfour , that your evidence is worth so very great a measure of both risk and fash . 
I will tell you one thing , said I. I saw the murderer and it was not Alan . 
Then , by God , my cousin's saved ! cried Stewart . 
You have his life upon your tongue and there's neither time , risk , nor money to be spared to bring you to the trial . 
He emptied his pockets on the floor . 
Here is all that I have by me , he went on , Take it , ye'll want it ere ye're through . 
Where am I to go , then ? I inquired . 
And I wish that I could tell ye ! says he , but all the places that I could send ye to , would be just the places they would seek . 
One thing more , said I. Can I no see Alan ? He seemed boggled . 
Hech , I would rather you wouldnae , said he . 
But I can never deny that Alan is extremely keen of it , and is to lie this night by Silvermills on purpose . 
If you're sure that you're not followed , Mr. Balfour but make sure of that lie in a good place and watch your road for a clear hour before ye risk it . 
Dean was where I wanted to go . 
As a slave to my conscience and common sense , however , I took a measure of precaution . 
Coming over the crown of a bit of a rise in the road , I clapped down suddenly among the barley and lay waiting . 
After a while , a man went by that looked to be a Highlandman , but I had never seen him till that hour . 
Presently after came Neil of the red head . 
The next to go past was a miller's cart , and after that nothing but manifest country people . 
Here was enough to have turned the most foolhardy from his purpose , but my inclination ran too strong the other way . 
And having quite satisfied myself with this disingenuous debate , I made the better speed of it , and came a little after four to Mrs. Drumond Ogilvy's . 
Catriona ran out to greet me heartily , and , to my surprise , the old lady seemed scarce less forward than herself . 
But had I read it I could scarce have seen more clear in her designs . 
Saxpence had better take his broth with us , Catrine , says she . 
Run and tell the lasses . 
When Catriona returned , the design became if possible more obvious and she showed off the girl's advantages like a horse couper with a horse . 
My face flamed that she should think me so obtuse . 
At last the matchmaker had a better device , which was to leave the pair of us alone . 
When my suspicions are anyway roused it is sometimes a little the wrong side of easy to allay them . 
But though I knew what breed she was of , and that was a breed of thieves , I could never look in Catriona's face and disbelieve her . 
I must not ask ? says she , eagerly , the same moment we were left alone . 
Ah , but to day I can talk with a free conscience , I replied . 
I would not have renewed it were it asked . 
Tell me , she said . 
My cousin will not be so long . 
And I think you will be as little fitted for the rudas men as for the pretty ladies , after all ! says she , when I had done . 
But what was your father that he could not learn you to draw the sword ! It is most ungentle I have not heard the match of that in anyone . 
must have been wool gathering to learn me Latin in the place of it . 
But you see I do the best I can , and just stand up like Lot's wife and let them hammer at me . 
Do you know what makes me smile ? said she . 
Well , it is this . 
I am made this way , that I should have been a man child . 
In my own thoughts it is so I am always and I go on telling myself about this thing that is to befall and that . 
Did ever you kill anyone ? That I have , as it chances . 
Two , no less , and me still a lad that should be at the college , said I. But yet , in the look back , I take no shame for it . 
But how did you feel , then after it ? she asked . 
Deed , I sat down and grat like a bairn , said I. I know that , too , she cried . 
I feel where these tears should come from . 
And at any rate , I would not wish to kill , only to be Catherine Douglas that put her arm through the staples of the bolt , where it was broken . 
That is my chief hero . 
Would you not love to die so for your king ? she asked . 
Right , she said , the right mind of a man ! Only you must learn arms I would not like to have a friend that cannot strike . 
But it will not have been with the sword that you killed these two ? Indeed , no , said I , but with a pair of pistols . 
And a fortunate thing it was the men were so near hand to me , for I am about as clever with the pistols as I am with the sword . 
So then she drew from me the story of our battle in the brig , which I had omitted in my first account of my affairs . 
Yes , said she , you are brave . 
And your friend , I admire and love him . 
And the thought of him , and that it was within my choice to speak with him that night , had almost overcome me . 
You do not like to hear it , said she . 
Will you judge my father and not know him ? I am a thousand miles from judging , I replied . 
And I give you my word I do rejoice to know your heart is lightened . 
I have Simon Fraser extremely heavy on my stomach still . 
Ah ! she cried , you will not be evening these two and you should bear in mind that Prestongrange and James More , my father , are of the one blood . 
I never heard tell of that , said I. It is rather singular how little you are acquainted with , said she . 
One part may call themselves Grant , and one Macgregor , but they are still of the same clan . 
They are all the sons of Alpin , from whom , I think , our country has its name . 
What country is that ? I asked . 
My country and yours , said she This is my day for discovering I think , said I , for I always thought the name of it was Scotland . 
Scotland is the name of what you call Ireland , she replied . 
But the old ancient true name of this place that we have our foot soles on , and that our bones are made of , will be Alban . 
It was Alban they called it when our forefathers will be fighting for it against Rome and Alexander and it is called so still in your own tongue that you forget . 
Troth , said I , and that I never learned ! For I lacked heart to take her up about the Macedonian . 
But your fathers and mothers talked it , one generation with another , said she . 
And it was sung about the cradles before you or me were ever dreamed of and your name remembers it still . 
Ah , if you could talk that language you would find me another girl . 
The heart speaks in that tongue . 
I had a meal with the two ladies , all very good , served in fine old plate , and the wine excellent , for it seems that Mrs. Ogilvy was rich . 
Our talk , too , was pleasant enough but as soon as I saw the sun decline sharply and the shadows to run out long , I rose to take my leave . 
For my mind was now made up to say farewell to Alan and it was needful I should see the trysting wood , and reconnoitre it , by daylight . 
Catriona came with me as far as to the garden gate . 
It is long till I see you now ? she asked . 
It is beyond my judging , I replied . 
It will be long , it may be never . 
It may be so , said she . 
And you are sorry ? I bowed my head , looking upon her . 
So am I , at all events , said she . 
I have seen you but a small time , but I put you very high . 
You are true , you are brave in time I think you will be more of a man yet . 
I will be proud to hear of that . 
If you should speed worse , if it will come to fall as we are afraid O well ! think you have the one friend . 
Long after you are dead and me an old wife , I will be telling the bairns about David Balfour , and my tears running . 
I will be telling how we parted , and what I said to you , and did to you . 
GOD GO WITH YOU AND GUIDE YOU , PRAYS YOUR LITTLE FRIEND so I said I will be telling them and here is what I did . 
She took up my hand and kissed it . 
This so surprised my spirits that I cried out like one hurt . 
The colour came strong in her face , and she looked at me and nodded . 
O yes , Mr. David , said she , that is what I think of you . 
The head goes with the lips . 
I could read in her face high spirit , and a chivalry like a brave child's not anything besides . 
She kissed my hand , as she had kissed Prince Charlie's , with a higher passion than the common kind of clay has any sense of . 
Nothing before had taught me how deep I was her lover , nor how far I had yet to climb to make her think of me in such a character . 
Yet I could tell myself I had advanced some way , and that her heart had beat and her blood flowed at thoughts of me . 
After that honour she had done me I could offer no more trivial civility . 
It was even hard for me to speak a certain lifting in her voice had knocked directly at the door of my own tears . 
My way was down the glen of the Leith River , towards Stockbridge and Silvermills . 
made like a new scene and a new world of it at every corner . 
With Catriona behind and Alan before me , I was like one lifted up . 
The place besides , and the hour , and the talking of the water , infinitely pleased me and I lingered in my steps and looked before and behind me as I went . 
This was the cause , under Providence , that I spied a little in my rear a red head among some bushes . 
Anger sprang in my heart , and I turned straight about and walked at a stiff pace to where I came from . 
The path lay close by the bushes where I had remarked the head . 
The cover came to the wayside , and as I passed I was all strung up to meet and to resist an onfall . 
No such thing befell , I went by unmeddled with and at that fear increased upon me . 
It was still day indeed , but the place exceeding solitary . 
If my haunters had let slip that fair occasion I could but judge they aimed at something more than David Balfour . 
The lives of Alan and James weighed upon my spirit with the weight of two grown bullocks . 
Catriona was yet in the garden walking by herself . 
Catriona , said I , you see me back again . 
With a changed face , said she . 
I carry two men's lives besides my own , said I. It would be a sin and shame not to walk carefully . 
I was doubtful whether I did right to come here . 
I would like it ill , if it was by that means we were brought to harm . 
I could tell you one that would be liking it less , and will like little enough to hear you talking at this very same time , she cried . 
What have I done , at all events ? O , you I you are not alone , I replied . 
But since I went off I have been dogged again , and I can give you the name of him that follows me . 
It is Neil , son of Duncan , your man or your father's . 
To be sure you are mistaken there , she said , with a white face . 
Neil is in Edinburgh on errands from my father . 
It is what I fear , said I , the last of it . 
But for his being in Edinburgh I think I can show you another of that . 
No doubt but I spoke bitter and sharp . 
Catriona set her fingers to her lips and whistled once , with an exceeding clear , strong , mounting note , as full as a ploughman's . 
A while we stood silent and I was about to ask her to repeat the same , when I heard the sound of some one bursting through the bushes below on the braeside . 
I pointed in that direction with a smile , and presently Neil leaped into the garden . 
naked in his hand but , seeing me beside his mistress , stood like a man struck . 
He has come to your call , said I judge how near he was to Edinburgh , or what was the nature of your father's errands . 
She addressed him tremulously in the Gaelic . 
Twice or thrice they spoke together , and I could make out that Neil was an angry man . 
Then she turned to me . 
He swears it is not , she said . 
Catriona , said I , do you believe the man yourself ? She made a gesture like wringing the hands . 
How will I can know ? she cried . 
This is no kind of talk that should ever have fallen between me and you no kind of talk my heart is sick with it . 
See , keep him here till two of the morning , and I care not . 
They spoke together once more in the Gaelic . 
He says he has James More my father's errand , said she . 
She was whiter than ever , and her voice faltered as she said it . 
It is pretty plain now , said I , and may God forgive the wicked ! She said never anything to that , but continued gazing at me with the same white face . 
This is a fine business , said I again . 
Am I to fall , then , and those two along with me ? O , what am I to do ? she cried . 
He may have no right orders all may be contrived by Simon , and your father knowing nothing . 
She burst out weeping between the pair of us and my heart smote me hard , for I thought this girl was in a dreadful situation . 
Here , said I , keep him but the one hour and I'll chance it , and may God bless you . 
She put out her hand to me , I will he needing one good word , she sobbed . 
The full hour , then ? said I , keeping her hand in mine . 
Three lives of it , my lass ! The full hour ! she said , and cried aloud on her Redeemer to forgive her . 
I thought it no fit place for me , and fled . 
CHAPTER XI THE WOOD BY SILVERMILLS I LOST no time , but down through the valley and by Stockbridge and Silvermills as hard as I could stave . 
It was Alan's tryst to be every night between twelve and two in a bit scrog of wood by east of Silvermills and by south the south mill lade . 
I saw I had made but a fool's bargain with Catriona . 
To tell the truth , I fancied neither one of these ideas . 
Suppose by holding back Neil , the girl should have helped to hang her father , I thought she would never forgive herself this side of time . 
My feet stopped of themselves and my heart along with them . 
What wild game is this that I have been playing ? thought I and turned instantly upon my heels to go elsewhere . 
This brought my face to Silvermills the path came past the village with a crook , but all plainly visible and , Highland or Lowland , there was nobody stirring . 
Again it was all empty , and my heart began to rise . 
For more than an hour I sat close in the border of the trees , and no hare or eagle could have kept a more particular watch . 
All that time not a foot of man had come east from Silvermills , and the few that had gone west were honest countryfolk and their wives upon the road to bed . 
The strain of my attention had been great , for I had watched not the path only , but every bush and field within my vision . 
That was now at an end . 
had now no right to be lying where I was . 
was just the one wood in all broad Scotland that was , by every proper feeling , closed against me I admitted that , and yet stayed on , wondering at myself . 
A good conscience is eight parts of courage . 
No sooner had I lost conceit of my behaviour , than I seemed to stand disarmed amidst a throng of terrors . 
Of a sudden I sat up . 
Not Catriona here , too , I had my answer ready that I could not bear she should expose her father . 
These I traced to my lowness of spirits , that back to my late recklessness , and that again to the common , old , public , disconsidered sin of self indulgence . 
I have been the more careful to narrate this passage of my reflections , because I think it is of some utility , and may serve as an example to young men . 
in planting kale , and even in ethic and religion , room for common sense . 
It was already close on Alan's hour , and the moon was down . 
they might miss me in the dark and tack themselves to Alan by mistake . 
If I stayed , I could at the least of it set my friend upon his guard which might prove his mere salvation . 
I had adventured other peoples' safety in a course of self indulgence to have endangered them again , and now on a mere design of penance , would have been scarce rational . 
Presently after came a crackling in the thicket . 
Is this you at last , Davie ? he whispered . 
Just myself , said I. God , man , but I've been wearying to see ye ! says he . 
I've had the longest kind of a time . 
Ay , Alan , man , the day , sure enough , said I. It's past twelve now , surely , and ye sail the day . 
This'll be a long road you have before you . 
We'll have a long crack of it first , said he . 
was extraordinary friendly to my heart . 
But Simon Fraser and James More are my ain kind of cattle , and I'll give them the name that they deserve . 
I bloodied the nose of one , I mind , when I was still so wambly on my legs that I cowped upon the top of him . 
A proud man was my father that day , God rest him ! and I think he had the cause . 
It passes me , said I. And me too , says Alan . 
Do ye think this lass would keep her word to ye ? he asked . 
I do that , said I. Well , there's nae telling , said he . 
And anyway , that's over and done he'll be joined to the rest of them lang syne . 
How many would ye think there would be of them ? I asked . 
That depends , said Alan . 
It was no use , I gave a little crack of laughter . 
And I think your own two eyes will have seen me drive that number , or the double of it , nearer hand ! cries he . 
It matters the less , said I , because I am well rid of them for this time . 
Nae doubt that's your opinion , said he but I wouldnae be the least surprised if they were hunkering this wood . 
Ye see , David man they'll be Hieland folk . 
ten miles through a throng lowland country and the black soldiers maybe at his tail . 
It's there that I learned a great part of my penetration . 
And ye need nae tell me it's better than war which is the next best , however , though generally rather a bauchle of a business . 
Now the Gregara have had grand practice . 
No doubt that's a branch of education that was left out with me , said I. And I can see the marks of it upon ye constantly , said Alan . 
But that's the strange thing about you folk of the college learning ye're ignorat , and ye cannae see 't . 
Wae's me for my Greek and Hebrew but , man , I ken that I dinnae ken them there's the differ of it . 
Ye lie on your wame a bittie in the bield of this wood , and ye tell me that ye've cuist off these Frasers and Macgregors . 
Why ? BECAUSE I COULDNAE SEE THEM , says you . 
Ye blockhead , that's their livelihood . 
Take the worst of it , said I , and what are we to do ? I am thinking of that same , said he . 
It wouldnae be greatly to my taste and forbye that , I see reasons against it . 
First , it's now unco dark , and it's just humanly possible we might give them the clean slip . 
we'll have to think what you should be doing . 
I'm wae to leave ye here , wanting me . 
Have with ye , then ! says I. Do ye gang back where you were stopping ? Deil a fear ! said Alan . 
They were good folks to me , but I think they would be a good deal disappointed if they saw my bonny face again . 
For I amnae just what ye could call a Walcome Guest . 
With which he rose from his place , and we began to move quietly eastward through the wood . 
The whiteness of the path guided us into the sleeping town of Broughton , thence through Picardy , and beside my old acquaintance the gibbet of the two thieves . 
A little beyond we made a useful beacon , which was a light in an upper window of Lochend . 
Here , under a bush of whin , we lay down the remainder of that night and slumbered . 
The day called us about five . 
A beautiful morning it was , the high westerly wind still blowing strong , but the clouds all blown away to Europe . 
Alan was already sitting up and smiling to himself . 
It was my first sight of my friend since we were parted , and I looked upon him with enjoyment . 
he had now a pair of knitted boot hose drawn above the knee . 
Doubtless these were intended for disguise but , as the day promised to be warm , he made a most unseasonable figure . 
Well , Davie , said he , is this no a bonny morning ? Here is a day that looks the way that a day ought to . 
This is a great change of it from the belly of my haystack and while you were there sottering and sleeping I have done a thing that maybe I do very seldom . 
And what was that ? said I. O , just said my prayers , said he . 
And where are my gentry , as ye call them ? I asked . 
Gude kens , says he and the short and the long of it is that we must take our chance of them . 
Up with your foot soles , Davie ! Forth , Fortune , once again of it ! And a bonny walk we are like to have . 
So we went east by the beach of the sea , towards where the salt pans were smoking in by the Esk mouth . 
No doubt there was a by ordinary bonny blink of morning sun on Arthur's Seat and the green Pentlands and the pleasantness of the day appeared to set Alan among nettles . 
I feel like a gomeral , says he , to be leaving Scotland on a day like this . 
It sticks in my head I would maybe like it better to stay here and hing . 
Ay , but ye wouldnae , Alan , said I. No , but what France is a good place too , he explained but it's some way no the same . 
It's brawer I believe , but it's no Scotland . 
I like it fine when I'm there , man yet I kind of weary for Scots divots and the Scots peat reek . 
And so you were unco weary of your haystack ? I asked . 
Weary's nae word for it , said he . 
I'm not just precisely a man that's easily cast down but I do better with caller air and the lift above my head . 
that likit better to hear the laverock sing than the mouse cheep . 
And yon place , ye see , Davie whilk was a very suitable place to hide in , as I'm free to own was pit mirk from dawn to gloaming . 
that seemed to me as long as a long winter . 
How did you know the hour to bide your tryst ? I asked . 
The goodman brought me my meat and a drop brandy , and a candle dowp to eat it by , about eleeven , said he . 
So , when I had swallowed a bit , it would he time to be getting to the wood . 
Na , it was a driech employ , and praise the Lord that I have warstled through with it ! What did you do with yourself ? I asked . 
Faith , said he , the best I could ! Whiles I played at the knucklebones . 
I'm an extraordinar good hand at the knucklebones , but it's a poor piece of business playing with naebody to admire ye . 
And whiles I would make songs . 
And then whiles I would make believe I had a set of pipes and I was playing . 
So ye were frich'ened of Sim Fraser ? he asked once . 
In troth was I ! cried I. So would I have been , Davie , said he . 
And that is indeed a driedful man . 
But it is only proper to give the deil his due and I can tell you he is a most respectable person on the field of war . 
Is he so brave ? I asked . 
He is as brave as my steel sword . 
The story of my duel set him beside himself . 
To think of that ! he cried . 
I showed ye the trick in Corrynakiegh too . 
Alan , said I , this is midsummer madness . 
Here is no time for fencing lessons . 
I cannae well say no to that , he admitted . 
If I had the time , I would gang straight back and try a turn at him mysel' . 
The man must be a provost . 
You silly fellow , said I , you forget it was just me . 
Na , said he , but three times ! When ye ken yourself that I am fair incompetent , I cried . 
Well , I never heard tell the equal of it , said he . 
I promise you the one thing , Alan , said I. The next time that we forgather , I'll be better learned . 
You shall not continue to bear the disgrace of a friend that cannot strike . 
Ay , the next time ! says he . 
And when will that be , I would like to ken ? Well , Alan , I have had some thoughts of that , too , said I and my plan is this . 
It's my opinion to be called an advocate . 
That's but a weary trade , Davie , says Alan , and rather a blagyard one forby . 
Ye would be better in a king's coat than that . 
Naething could be mair proper than what I would get a leave to see Lieutenant Colonel Stewart of Halkett's . 
And Lord Melfort , who is a very scienteefic kind of a man , and writes books like Caesar , would be doubtless very pleased to have the advantage of my observes . 
Is Lord Meloort an author , then ? I asked , for much as Alan thought of soldiers , I thought more of the gentry that write books . 
The very same , Davie , said he . 
One would think a colonel would have something better to attend to . 
It might take long , or it might take short , but it would aye get to my hands at the last of it . 
We had a haddock to our breakfast in Musselburgh , where it amused me vastly to hear Alan . 
that was a rencounter we might very well avoid . 
The wind although still high , was very mild , the sun shone strong , and Alan began to suffer in proportion . 
From Prestonpans he had me aside to the field of Gladsmuir , where he exerted himself a great deal more than needful to describe the stages of the battle . 
Thence , at his old round pace , we travelled to Cockenzie . 
What do ye want ? says he . 
Now , if this had been a young lassie , or onyways bonnie , she would never have heard tell of my stomach , Davie . 
But aince they're too old to be seeking joes , they a' set up to be apotecaries . 
Why ? What do I ken ? They'll be just the way God made them , I suppose . 
But I think a man would be a gomeral that didnae give his attention to the same . 
And here , the luckie coming back , he turned from me as if with impatience to renew their former conversation . 
The lady had branched some while before from Alan's stomach to the case of a goodbrother of her own in Aberlady , whose last sickness and demise she was describing at extraordinary length . 
Sometimes it was merely dull , sometimes both dull and awful , for she talked with unction . 
The upshot was that I fell in a deep muse , looking forth of the window on the road , and scarce marking what I saw . 
Presently had any been looking they might have seen me to start . 
Sir , says I , cutting very quietly in , there's a friend of mine gone by the house . 
Is that e'en sae ? replies Alan , as though it were a thing of small account . 
And then , Ye were saying , mem ? says he and the wearyful wife went on . 
Presently , however , he paid her with a half crown piece , and she must go forth after the change . 
Was it him with the red head ? asked Alan . 
Ye have it , said I. What did I tell you in the wood ? he cried . 
And yet it's strange he should be here too ! Was he his lane ? His lee lane for what I could see , said I. Did he gang by ? he asked . 
Straight by , said I , and looked neither to the right nor left . 
And that's queerer yet , said Alan . 
It sticks in my mind , Davie , that we should be stirring . 
But where to ? deil hae't ! This is like old days fairly , cries he . 
There is one big differ , though , said I , that now we have money in our pockets . 
And another big differ , Mr. Balfour , says he , that now we have dogs at our tail . 
They're on the scent they're in full cry , David . 
It's a bad business and be damned to it . 
And he sat thinking hard with a look of his that I knew well . 
Then , sir , says he to me , I think that will be the shortest road for us . 
And here's good bye to ye , my braw woman and I'll no forget thon of the cinnamon water . 
We went out by way of the woman's kale yard , and up a lane among fields . 
Alan looked sharply to all sides , and seeing we were in a little hollow place of the country , out of view of men , sat down . 
Now for a council of war , Davie , said he . 
But first of all , a bit lesson to ye . 
Suppose that I had been like you , what would yon old wife have minded of the pair of us ! Just that we had gone out by the back gate . 
Never a sign of it , said I. Nhm ! said Alan , it looks queer . 
I think it's no you they're seeking , I think it's me and I think they ken fine where they're gaun . 
They ken ? I asked . 
Alan , I cried , if you're at all right there'll be folk there and to spare . 
It'll be small service to crack heads . 
It would aye be a satisfaction though , says Alan . 
But bide a bit bide a bit I'm thinking and thanks to this bonny westland wind , I believe I've still a chance of it . 
It's this way , Davie . 
I'm no trysted with this man Scougal till the gloaming comes . 
Now if your gentry kens the place , they ken the time forbye . 
If the ship's there , we'll try and get on board of her . 
If she's no there , I'll just have to get back to my weary haystack . 
But either way of it , I think we will leave your gentry whistling on their thumbs . 
It is my excuse that we travelled exceeding fast . 
Some part we ran , some trotted , and the rest walked at a vengeance of a pace . 
Has ye seen my horse ? he gasped . 
Na , man , I haenae seen nae horse the day , replied the countryman . 
And Alan spared the time to explain to him that we were travelling ride and tie that our charger had escaped , and it was feared he had gone home to Linton . 
to curse his own misfortune and my stupidity which was said to be its cause . 
Them that cannae tell the truth , he observed to myself as we went on again , should be aye mindful to leave an honest , handy lee behind them . 
by some door or window of these ruins the sea peeped through like a man's eye . 
Under the lee of Fidra there is a good anchorage in westerly winds , and there , from a far way off , we could see the THISTLE riding . 
The shore in face of these islets is altogether waste . 
Here is no dwelling of man , and scarce any passage , or at most of vagabond children running at their play . 
But here Alan came to a full stop . 
Davie , said he , this is a kittle passage ! As long as we lie here we're safe but I'm nane sae muckle nearer to my ship or the coast of France . 
And as soon as we stand up and signal the brig , it's another matter . 
For where will your gentry be , think ye ? Maybe they're no come yet , said I. And even if they are , there's one clear matter in our favour . 
They'll be all arranged to take us , that's true . 
But they'll have arranged for our coming from the east and here we are upon their west . 
Time flies , Alan , said I. I ken that , said Alan . 
I ken naething else , as the French folk say . 
But this is a dreidful case of heids or tails . 
O ! if I could but ken where your gentry were ! Alan , said I , this is no like you . 
It's got to be now or never . 
This is no me , quo' he , sang Alan , with a queer face betwixt shame and drollery . 
Neither you nor me , quo' he , neither you nor me . 
Wow , na , Johnnie man ! neither you nor me . 
And then of a sudden he stood straight up where he was , and with a handkerchief flying in his right hand , marched down upon the beach . 
I stood up myself , but lingered behind him , scanning the sand hills to the east . 
His appearance was at first unremarked Scougal not expecting him so early , and MY GENTRY watching on the other side . 
Alan had not seen this , looking straight to seaward at the ship and skiff . 
It maun be as it will ! said he , when I had told him , Weel may yon boatie row , or my craig'll have to thole a raxing . 
There is one thing I would like to ken , say Alan . 
I would like to ken these gentry's orders . 
Morally impossible , said I. The point is that they can have no guns . 
This thing has been gone about too secret pistols they may have , but never guns . 
I believe ye'll be in the right , says Alan . 
For all which I am wearing a good deal for yon boat . 
And he snapped his fingers and whistled to it like a dog . 
It was now perhaps a third of the way in , and we ourselves already hard on the margin of the sea , so that the soft sand rose over my shoes . 
And you would be the more mistaken , said he . 
What makes the differ with me is just my great penetration and knowledge of affairs . 
But for auld , cauld , dour , deadly courage , I am not fit to hold a candle to yourself . 
Look at us two here upon the sands . 
in two minds of it whether you'll no stop . 
It's there ye're coming , is it ? I cried . 
Ah , man Alan , you can wile your old wives , but you never can wile me . 
Remembrance of my temptation in the wood made me strong as iron . 
I have a tryst to keep , I continued . 
I am trysted with your cousin Charlie I have passed my word . 
Braw trysts that you'll can keep , said Alan . 
Ye'll just mistryst aince and for a' with the gentry in the bents . 
And what for ? he went on with an extreme threatening gravity . 
Alan , cried I , they're all rogues and liars , and I'm with ye there . 
The more reason there should be one decent man in such a land of thieves ! My word in passed , and I'll stick to it . 
I said long syne to your kinswoman that I would stumble at no risk . 
Do ye mind of that ? the night Red Colin fell , it was . 
No more I will , then . 
Prestongrange promised me my life if he's to be mansworn , here I'll have to die . 
Aweel aweel , said Alan . 
All this time we had seen or heard no more of our pursuers . 
had not yet reached the scene what there was of them was spread among the bents towards Gillane . 
It was quite an affair to call them in and bring them over , and the boat was making speed . 
they liked the look of us . 
Whoever had betrayed Alan it was not the captain he was in the skiff himself , steering and stirring up his oarsmen , like a man with his heart in his employ . 
This sound , arising from what appeared to be a quite deserted coast , was really very daunting , and the men in the boat held water instantly . 
What's this of it ? sings out the captain , for he was come within an easy hail . 
Freens o'mine , says Alan , and began immediately to wade forth in the shallow water towards the boat . 
Davie , he said , pausing , Davie , are ye no coming ? I am swier to leave ye . 
Not a hair of me , said I. He stood part of a second where he was to his knees in the salt water , hesitating . 
I stood where he had left me , with my hands behind my back Alan sat with his head turned watching me and the boat drew smoothly away . 
Of a sudden I came the nearest hand to shedding tears , and seemed to myself the most deserted solitary lad in Scotland . 
With that I turned my back upon the sea and faced the sandhills . 
There was no sight or sound of man the sun shone on the wet sand and the dry , the wind blew in the bents , the gulls made a dreary piping . 
As I passed higher up the beach , the sand lice were hopping nimbly about the stranded tangles . 
The devil any other sight or sound in that unchancy place . 
And yet I knew there were folk there , observing me , upon some secret purpose . 
But I perceived in time the folly of resistance . 
This was no doubt the joint expedient on which Prestongrange and Fraser were agreed . 
These thoughts brought me to the head of the beach . 
I cast a look behind , the boat was nearing the brig , and Alan flew his handkerchief for a farewell , which I replied to with the waving of my hand . 
But Alan himself was shrunk to a small thing in my view , alongside of this pass that lay in front of me . 
I set my hat hard on my head , clenched my teeth , and went right before me up the face of the sand wreath . 
It made a hard climb , being steep , and the sand like water underfoot . 
But I caught hold at last by the long bent grass on the brae top , and pulled myself to a good footing . 
The same moment men stirred and stood up here and there , six or seven of them , ragged like knaves , each with a dagger in his hand . 
The fair truth is , I shut my eyes and prayed . 
When I opened them again , the rogues were crept the least thing nearer without speech or hurry . 
Every eye was upon mine , which struck me with a strange sensation of their brightness , and of the fear with which they continued to approach me . 
I held out my hands empty whereupon one asked , with a strong Highland brogue , if I surrendered . 
Under protest , said I , if ye ken what that means , which I misdoubt . 
There they sat about their captive in a part of a circle and gazed upon him silently like something dangerous , perhaps a lion or a tiger on the spring . 
Presently this attention was relaxed . 
They drew nearer together , fell to speech in the Gaelic , and very cynically divided my property before my eyes . 
It was my diversion in this time that I could watch from my place the progress of my friend's escape . 
I saw the boat come to the brig and be hoisted in , the sails fill , and the ship pass out seaward behind the isles and by North Berwick . 
In the course of two hours or so , more and more ragged Highlandmen kept collecting . 
Neil among the first , until the party must have numbered near a score . 
I could name one who would be very ill pleased with your day's work , Neil Duncanson , said I , when the rest had moved away . 
He assured me in answer I should be tenderly used , for he knew he was acquent wi' the leddy . 
At which hour I was aware of a long , lean , bony like Lothian man of a very swarthy countenance , that came towards us among the bents on a farm horse . 
Lads , cried he , has ye a paper like this ? and held up one in his hand . 
Neil produced a second , which the newcomer studied through a pair of horn spectacles , and saying all was right and we were the folk he was seeking , immediately dismounted . 
I was then set in his place , my feet tied under the horse's belly , and we set forth under the guidance of the Lowlander . 
At last we came again within sound of the sea . 
There was moonlight , though not much and by this I could see the three huge towers and broken battlements of Tantallon , that old chief place of the Red Douglases . 
The horse was picketed in the bottom of the ditch to graze , and I was led within , and forth into the court , and thence into the tumble down stone hall . 
Here my conductors built a brisk fire in the midst of the pavement , for there was a chill in the night . 
I was given oatmeal bread and a pitcher of French brandy . 
This done , I was left once more alone with my three Highlandmen . 
I had no means of guessing at what hour I was wakened , only the moon was down and the fire was low . 
The thought chilled me the air was sharp upon the water , the stretchers of the boat drenched with a cold dew and I shivered in my place beside the steersman . 
This was the dark man whom I have called hitherto the Lowlander his name was Dale , ordinarily called Black Andie . 
Feeling the thrill of my shiver , he very kindly handed me a rough jacket full of fish scales , with which I was glad to cover myself . 
I thank you for this kindness , said I , and will make so free as to repay it with a warning . 
You take a high responsibility in this affair . 
You are not like these ignorant , barbarous Highlanders , but know what the law is and the risks of those that break it . 
I am no just exactly what ye would ca' an extremist for the law , says he , at the best of times but in this business I act with a good warranty . 
What are you going to do with me ? I asked . 
Nae harm , said he , nae harm ava' . 
Ye'll have strong freens , I'm thinking . 
Ye'll be richt eneuch yet . 
It is just the one crag of rock , as everybody knows , but great enough to carve a city from . 
The sea was extremely little , but there went a hollow plowter round the base of it . 
At the sight the truth came in upon me in a clap . 
It's there you're taking me ! I cried . 
Just to the Bass , mannie , said he Whaur the auld saints were afore ye , and I misdoubt if ye have come so fairly by your preeson . 
But none dwells there now , I cried the place is long a ruin . 
It'll be the mair pleisand a change for the solan geese , then , quoth Andie dryly . 
The day coming slowly brighter I observed on the bilge , among the big stones with which fisherfolk ballast their boats , several kegs and baskets , and a provision of fuel . 
All these were discharged upon the crag . 
, landed along with them . 
of the Bass , being at once the shepherd and the gamekeeper of that small and rich estate . 
He had to mind the dozen or so of sheep that fed and fattened on the grass of the sloping part of it , like beasts grazing the roof of a cathedral . 
He had charge besides of the solan geese that roosted in the crags and from these an extraordinary income is derived . 
There we saw by the ashes in the chimney and a standing bed place in one corner , that he made his usual occupation . 
This bed he now offered me to use , saying he supposed I would set up to be gentry . 
My gentrice has nothing to do with where I lie , said I. I bless God I have lain hard ere now , and can do the same again with thankfulness . 
He grumbled a little at this speech , but seemed upon reflection to approve it . 
His morals were of a more doubtful colour . 
I found he was deep in the free trade , and used the rains of Tantallon for a magazine of smuggled merchandise . 
As for a gauger , I do not believe he valued the life of one at half a farthing . 
But that part of the coast of Lothian is to this day as wild a place , and the commons there as rough a crew , as any in Scotland . 
One incident of my imprisonment is made memorable by a consequence it had long after . 
There was a warship at this time stationed in the Firth , the SEAHORSE , Captain Palliser . 
It chanced she was cruising in the month of September , plying between Fife and Lothian , and sounding for sunk dangers . 
And presently after having got her boat again , she came before the wind and was headed directly for the Base . 
could see the ship's company at their quarters and hear the leadsman singing at the lead . 
Then she suddenly wore and let fly a volley of I know not how many great guns . 
The rock was shaken with the thunder of the sound , the smoke flowed over our heads , and the geese rose in number beyond computation or belief . 
He was to pay dear for it in time . 
of my averting from a friend a great calamity , and inflicting on Captain Palliser himself a sensible disappointment . 
All the time of my stay on the rock we lived well . 
We had small ale and brandy , and oatmeal , of which we made our porridge night and morning . 
At times a boat came from the Castleton and brought us a quarter of mutton , for the sheep upon the rock we must not touch , these being specially fed to market . 
The geese were unfortunately out of season , and we let them be . 
The strange nature of this place , and the curiosities with which it abounded , held me busy and amused . 
Escape being impossible , I was allowed my entire liberty , and continually explored the surface of the isle wherever it might support the foot of man . 
The old garden of the prison was still to be observed , with flowers and pot herbs running wild , and some ripe cherries on a bush . 
A little lower stood a chapel or a hermit's cell who built or dwelt in it , none may know , and the thought of its age made a ground of many meditations . 
The prison , too , where I now bivouacked with Highland cattle thieves , was a place full of history , both human and divine . 
No doubt it was a good deal Andie and his tales that put these fancies in my head . 
He was extraordinarily well acquainted with the story of the rock in all particulars , down to the names of private soldiers , his father having served there in that same capacity . 
He was gifted besides with a natural genius for narration , so that the people seemed to speak and the things to be done before your face . 
This gift of his and my assiduity to listen brought us the more close together . 
I could not honestly deny but what I liked him I soon saw that he liked me and indeed , from the first I had set myself out to capture his good will . 
effected this beyond my expectation but even in early days we made a friendly pair to be a prisoner and his gaoler . 
I should trifle with my conscience if I pretended my stay upon the Bass was wholly disagreeable . 
It seemed to me a safe place , as though I was escaped there out of my troubles . 
But anon the fear would take me otherwise I would be shaken with a perfect panic of self esteem , and these supposed hard judgments appear an injustice impossible to be supported . 
At last , when we two were alone on the summit of the rock on a bright morning , I put in some hint about a bribe . 
He looked at me , cast back his head , and laughed out loud . 
Ay , you're funny , Mr. Dale , said I , but perhaps if you'll glance an eye upon that paper you may change your note . 
Troth , and ye're nane sae ill aff , said he . 
I thought that would maybe vary your opinions , said I. Hout ! said he . 
It shows me ye can bribe but I'm no to be bribit . 
We'll see about that yet a while , says I. And first , I'll show you that I know what I am talking . 
You have orders to detain me here till after Thursday , st September . 
Ye're no a'thegether wrong either , says Andie . 
I'm to let you gang , bar orders contrair , on Saturday , the rd . 
I could not but feel there was something extremely insidious in this arrangement . 
I have seen some of them myself since this affair began , and said my say into their faces too . 
It looks unco underhand , says Andie . 
And werenae the folk guid sound Whigs and true blue Presbyterians I would has seen them ayont Jordan and Jeroozlem or I would have set hand to it . 
The Master of Lovat'll be a braw Whig , says I , and a grand Presbyterian . 
I ken naething by him , said he . 
I hae nae trokings wi' Lovats . 
No , it'll be Prestongrange that you'll be dealing with , said I. Ah , but I'll no tell ye that , said Andie . 
Little need when I ken , was my retort . 
There's just the ae thing ye can be fairly sure of , Shaws , says Andie . 
I'm no dealing wi' yoursel' nor yet I amnae goin' to , he added . 
Well , Andie , I see I'll have to be speak out plain with you , I replied . 
And told him so much as I thought needful of the facts . 
He heard me out with some serious interest , and when I had done , seemed to consider a little with himself . 
Shaws , said he at last , I'll deal with the naked hand . 
It's a queer tale , and no very creditable , the way you tell it and I'm far frae minting that is other than the way that ye believe it . 
As for yoursel' , ye seem to me rather a dacent like young man . 
But me , that's aulder and mair judeecious , see perhaps a wee bit further forrit in the job than what ye can dae . 
And here the maitter clear and plain to ye . 
There'll be nae skaith to yoursel' if I keep ye here far free that , I think ye'll be a hantle better by it . 
Andie , said I , laying my hand upon his knee , this Hielantman's innocent . 
Ay , it's a peety about that , said he . 
But ye see , in this warld , the way God made it , we cannae just get a'thing that we want . 
CHAPTER XV BLACK ANDIE'S TALE OF TOD LAPRAIK I HAVE yet said little of the Highlanders . 
They were all three of the followers of James More , which bound the accusation very tight about their master's neck . 
his company was often tempted to the contrary opinion . 
I can find no word for it in the English , but Andie had an expression for it in the Scots from which he never varied . 
Ay , he would say , ITS AN UNCO PLACE , THE BASS . 
It is so I always think of it . 
It was chiefly so in moderate weather . 
This brings me to a story I heard , and a scene I took part in , which quite changed our terms of living , and had a great effect on my departure . 
It chanced one night I fell in a muse beside the fire and began to whistle . 
A hand was laid upon my arm , and the voice of Neil bade me to stop , for it was not canny musics . 
Not canny ? I asked . 
How can that be ? Na , said he it will be made by a bogle and her wanting ta heid upon his body . 
Well , said I , there can be no bogles here , Neil for it's not likely they would fash themselves to frighten geese . 
Ay ? says Andie , is that what ye think of it ! But I'll can tell ye there's been waur nor bogles here . 
What's waur than bogles , Andie ? said I. Warlocks , said he . 
Or a warlock at the least of it . 
And that's a queer tale , too , he added . 
And if ye would like , I'll tell it ye . 
To be sure we were all of the one mind , and even the Highlander that had the least English of the three set himself to listen with all his might . 
THE TALE OF TOD LAPRAIK MY faither , Tam Dale , peace to his banes , was a wild , sploring lad in his young days , wi' little wisdom and little grace . 
He was fond of a lass and fond of a glass , and fond of a ran dan but I could never hear tell that he was muckle use for honest employment . 
Sorrow upon that service ! The governor brewed his ain ale it seems it was the warst conceivable . 
The rock was proveesioned free the shore with vivers , the thing was ill guided , and there were whiles when they but to fish and shoot solans for their diet . 
To crown a' , thir was the Days of the Persecution . 
The perishin' cauld chalmers were all occupeed wi' sants and martyrs , the saut of the yearth , of which it wasnae worthy . 
But the truth is that he resisted the spirit . 
Day cam , there were the rousing compainions , and his guid resolves depairtit . 
In thir days , dwalled upon the Bass a man of God , Peden the Prophet was his name . 
Ye'll have heard tell of Prophet Peden . 
There was never the wale of him sinsyne , and it's a question wi' mony if there ever was his like afore . 
He was wild's a peat hag , fearsome to look at , fearsome to hear , his face like the day of judgment . 
The voice of him was like a solan's and dinnle'd in folks' lugs , and the words of him like coals of fire . 
But whan he spak , it was mair in sorrow than in anger . 
There cam a gowst of wind , claught her by the coats , and awa' wi' her bag and baggage . 
And it was remarked by the sodgers that she gied but the ae skirl . 
Nae doubt this judgment had some weicht upon Tam Dale but it passed again and him none the better . 
Ae day he was flyting wi' anither sodger lad . 
Deil hae me ! quo' Tam , for he was a profane swearer . 
Fy , fy , poor man ! cries he , the poor fool man ! DEIL HAE ME , quo' he an' I see the deil at his oxter . 
It was in the year seeventeen hunner and sax that the Bass cam in the hands o' the Da'rymples , and there was twa men soucht the chairge of it . 
Baith were weel qualified , for they had baith been sodgers in the garrison , and kent the gate to handle solans , and the seasons and values of them . 
Forby that they were baith or they baith seemed earnest professors and men of comely conversation . 
The first of them was just Tam Dale , my faither . 
The second was ane Lapraik , whom the folk ca'd Tod Lapraik maistly , but whether for his name or his nature I could never hear tell . 
Weel , Tam gaed to see Lapraik upon this business , and took me , that was a toddlin' laddie , by the hand . 
Tod had his dwallin' in the lang loan benorth the kirkyaird . 
The door was on the sneck that day , and me and my faither gaed straucht in . 
Tod was a wabster to his trade his loom stood in the but . 
There he sat , a muckle fat , white hash of a man like creish , wi' a kind of a holy smile that gart me scunner . 
The hand of him aye cawed the shuttle , but his een was steeked . 
We cried to him by his name , we skirted in the deid lug of him , we shook him by the shou'ther . 
Nae mainner o' service ! There he sat on his dowp , an' cawed the shuttle and smiled like creish . 
God be guid to us , says Tam Dale , this is no canny ? He had jimp said the word , when Tod Lapraik cam to himsel' . 
Is this you , Tam ? says he . 
Haith , man ! I'm blythe to see ye . 
I whiles fa' into a bit dwam like this , he says its frae the stamach . 
I mind weel that as my faither and me gaed hame again , he cam ower and ower the same expression , how little he likit Tod Lapraik and his dwams . 
I think folk hae brunt for dwams like yon . 
Aweel , my faither got the Bass and Tod had to go wantin' . 
It was remembered sinsyne what way he had ta'en the thing . 
Tam , says he , ye hae gotten the better o' me aince mair , and I hope , says he , ye'll find at least a' that ye expeckit at the Bass . 
Which have since been thought remarkable expressions . 
At last the time came for Tam Dale to take young solans . 
This was a business he was weel used wi' , he had been a craigsman frae a laddie , and trustit nane but himsel' . 
So there was he hingin' by a line an' speldering on the craig face , whaur its hieest and steighest . 
Fower tenty lads were on the tap , hauldin' the line and mindin' for his signals . 
But whaur Tam hung there was naething but the craig , and the sea belaw , and the solans skirlin and flying . 
It was a braw spring morn , and Tam whustled as he claught in the young geese . 
Mony's the time I've heard him tell of this experience , and aye the swat ran upon the man . 
It chanced , ye see , that Tam keeked up , and he was awaur of a muckle solan , and the solan pyking at the line . 
He thocht this by ordinar and outside the creature's habits . 
Awa' , bird ! Shoo , awa' wi' ye ! says he . 
The solan keekit doon into Tam's face , and there was something unco in the creature's ee . 
Just the ae keek it gied , and back to the rope . 
But now it wroucht and warstl't like a thing dementit . 
There gaed a cauld stend o' fear into Tam's heart . 
This thing is nae bird , thinks he . 
His een turnt backward in his heid and the day gaed black aboot him . 
If I get a dwam here , he toucht , it's by wi' Tam Dale . 
And he signalled for the lads to pu' him up . 
And it seemed the solan understood about signals . 
Tam had a knife , he gart the cauld steel glitter . 
And as sune as that thing was gane , Tam's heid drapt upon his shouther , and they pu'd him up like a deid corp , dadding on the craig . 
broucht him to his mind , or what was left of it . 
Rin , Geordie , rin to the boat , mak' sure of the boat , man rin ! he cries , or yon solan'll have it awa' , says he . 
The fower lads stared at ither , an' tried to whilly wha him to be quiet . 
But naething would satisfy Tam Dale , till ane o' them had startit on aheid to stand sentry on the boat . 
The ithers askit if he was for down again . 
Sure eneuch , nae time was lost , and that was ower muckle for before they won to North Berwick Tam was in a crying fever . 
I kenna for that but what I ken the best , that was the end of it . 
It was about this time o' the year my grandfaither was out at the white fishing and like a bairn , I but to gang wi' him . 
He's no lang deid neither , or ye could speir at himsel' . 
What's yon on the Bass ? says he . 
On the Bass ? says grandfaither . 
Ay , says Sandie , on the green side o't . 
Whatten kind of a thing ? says grandfaither . 
There cannae be naething on the Bass but just the sheep . 
It looks unco like a body , quo' Sandie , who was nearer in . 
A body ! says we , and we none of us likit that . 
For there was nae boat that could have brought a man , and the key o' the prison yett hung ower my faither's at hame in the press bed . 
We keept the twa boats close for company , and crap in nearer hand . 
Grandfaither had a gless , for he had been a sailor , and the captain of a smack , and had lost her on the sands of Tay . 
And when we took the glass to it , sure eneuch there was a man . 
It's Tod , says grandfather , and passed the gless to Sandie . 
Ay , it's him , says Sandie . 
Or ane in the likeness o' him , says grandfaither . 
Sma' is the differ , quo' Sandie . 
Haud your hand , Sandie , says grandfaither we maun see clearer first , says he , or this may be a dear day's wark to the baith of us . 
Hout ! says Sandie , this is the Lord's judgment surely , and be damned to it , says he . 
This was ower true , and Sandie was a wee thing set ajee . 
Aweel , Edie , says he , and what would be your way of it ? Ou , just this , says grandfaither . 
Let me that has the fastest boat gang back to North Berwick , and let you bide here and keep an eye on Thon . 
If I cannae find Lapraik , I'll join ye and the twa of us'll have a crack wi' him . 
But if Lapraik's at hame , I'll rin up the flag at the harbour , and ye can try Thon Thing wi' the gun . 
Aweel , so it was agreed between them twa . 
I was just a bairn , an' clum in Sandie's boat , whaur I thoucht I would see the best of the employ . 
My grandsire gied Sandie a siller tester to pit in his gun wi' the leid draps , bein mair deidly again bogles . 
And then the as boat set aff for North Berwick , an' the tither lay whaur it was and watched the wanchancy thing on the brae side . 
A' the time we lay there it lowped and flang and capered and span like a teetotum , and whiles we could hear it skelloch as it span . 
I hae seen lassies , the daft queans , that would lowp and dance a winter's nicht , and still be lowping and dancing when the winter's day cam in . 
But there would be fowk there to hauld them company , and the lads to egg them on and this thing was its lee lane . 
And there would be a fiddler diddling his elbock in the chimney side and this thing had nae music but the skirling of the solans . 
Say what ye like , I maun say what I believe . 
It was joy was in the creature's heart , the joy o' hell , I daursay joy whatever . 
That was a' Sandie waited for . 
He up wi' the gun , took a deleeberate aim , an' pu'd the trigger . 
There cam' a bang and then ae waefu' skirl frae the Bass . 
And there were we rubbin' our een and lookin' at ither like daft folk . 
For wi' the bang and the skirl the thing had clean disappeared . 
The sun glintit , the wund blew , and there was the bare yaird whaur the Wonder had been lowping and flinging but ae second syne . 
The hale way hame I roared and grat wi' the terror o' that dispensation . 
It seems they had fund Lapraik in ane of his dwams , cawing the shuttle and smiling . 
Ae lad they sent to hoist the flag , and the rest abode there in the wabster's house . 
and looking on thon awesome thing as it cawed the shuttle . 
Syne , upon a suddenty , and wi' the ae dreidfu' skelloch , Tod sprang up frae his hinderlands and fell forrit on the wab , a bluidy corp . 
Andie had scarce done when there befell a mighty silly affair that had its consequence . 
Neil , as I have said , was himself a great narrator . 
I have heard since that he knew all the stories in the Highlands and thought much of himself , and was thought much of by others on the strength of it . 
Now Andie's tale reminded him of one he had already heard . 
She would ken that story afore , he said . 
She was the story of Uistean More M'Gillie Phadrig and the Gavar Vore . 
It is no sic a thing , cried Andie . 
It is the story of my faither and Tod Lapraik . 
I had already remarked that Andie was continually on the point of quarrelling with our three MacGregors , and now , sure enough , it was to come . 
Thir will be no words to use to shentlemans , says Neil . 
Shentlemans , ye hielant stot ! If God would give ye the grace to see yoursel' the way that ithers see ye , ye would throw your denner up . 
There came some kind of a Gaelic oath from Neil , and the black knife was in his hand that moment . 
His comrades sprang to rescue him , Andie and I were without weapons , the Gregara three to two . 
I returned to him on the morrow . 
But if I thought Andie came not very well out in courage , I had no fault to find with him upon the account of gratitude . 
CHAPTER XVI THE MISSING WITNESS ON the seventeenth , the day I was trysted with the Writer , I had much rebellion against fate . 
The thought of him waiting in the KING'S ARMS , and of what he would think , and what he would say when next we met , tormented and oppressed me . 
I repeated this form of words with a kind of bitter relish , and re examined in that light the steps of my behaviour . 
It seemed I had behaved to James Stewart as a brother might all the past was a picture that I could be proud of , and there was only the present to consider . 
I could not swim the sea , nor yet fly in the air , but there was always Andie . 
I had done him a service , he liked me I had a lever there to work on if it were just for decency , I must try once more with Andie . 
If I thoucht it was to do guid to ye , Shaws ! said he , staring at me over his spectacles . 
It's to save another , said I , and to redeem my word . 
But where do I come in ! I have my word to redeem the same's yoursel' . 
It just comes to this if I am to service ye the way that you propose , I'll lose my lifelihood . 
Then it's clear ye'll have to make it up to me , and a pickle mair , for your ain credit like . 
And just awa' wi' ye like a bonny lad ! and let Andie read his chapter . 
of gratitude to Prestongrange , who had saved me , in this violent , illegal manner , out of the midst of my dangers , temptations , and perplexities . 
But this was both too flimsy and too cowardly to last me long , and the remembrance of James began to succeed to the possession of my spirits . 
The st , the day set for the trial , I passed in such misery of mind as I can scarce recall to have endured , save perhaps upon Isle Earraid only . 
Much of the time I lay on a brae side betwixt sleep and waking , my body motionless , my mind full of violent thoughts . 
I thought Andie seemed to observe me , but I paid him little heed . 
Verily , my bread was bitter to me , and my days a burthen . 
a boat came with provisions , and Andie placed a packet in my hand . 
The cover was without address but sealed with a Government seal . 
Mr. Balfour can now see for himself it is too late to meddle . 
His conduct will be observed and his discretion rewarded . 
So ran the first , which seemed to be laboriously writ with the left hand . 
my adversaries knew what they were doing , and to digest as well as I was able the threat that peeped under the promise . 
But the second enclosure was by far the more surprising . 
It was in a lady's hand of writ . 
Catriona's grey eyes shone in my remembrance . 
I thought , with a bound of pleasure , she must be the friend . 
No doubt , besides , but she lived in the same house as this letter came from . 
But even here I had a glimmering . 
For , first of all , there was something rather alarming about the young lady , and papa might be more under her domination than I knew . 
He must conceive that my imprisonment had incensed me . 
Perhaps this little jesting , friendly message was intended to disarm my rancour ? I will be honest and I think it did . 
I felt a sudden warmth towards that beautiful Miss Grant , that she should stoop to so much interest in my affairs . 
The summoning up of Catriona moved me of itself to milder and more cowardly counsels . 
Well , fowls must be wiser than folk ! For I thought I perceived the policy , and yet fell in with it . 
I was in this frame , my heart beating , the grey eyes plain before me like two stars , when Andie broke in upon my musing . 
I see ye has gotten guid news , said he . 
Trials , I reflected , sometimes draw out longer than is looked for . 
Even if I came to Inverary just too late , something might yet be attempted in the interests of James and in those of my own character , the best would be accomplished . 
In a moment , it seemed without thought , I had a plan devised . 
Andie , said I , is it still to be to morrow ? He told me nothing was changed . 
Was anything said about the hour ? I asked . 
He told me it was to be two o'clock afternoon . 
And about the place ? I pursued . 
Whatten place ? says Andie . 
The place I am to be landed at ? said I. He owned there was nothing as to that . 
Very well , then , I said , this shall be mine to arrange . 
Ye daft callant ! he cried ye would try for Inverary after a' ! Just that , Andie , says I. Weel , ye're ill to beat ! says he . 
And I was a kind o' sorry for ye a' day yesterday , he added . 
Ye see , I was never entirely sure till then , which way of it ye really wantit . 
Here was a spur to a lame horse ! A word in your ear , Andie , said I. This plan of mine has another advantage yet . 
We can leave these Hielandman behind us on the rock , and one of your boats from the Castleton can bring them off to morrow . 
Yon Neil has a queer eye when he regards you maybe , if I was once out of the gate there might be knives again these red shanks are unco grudgeful . 
And if there should come to be any question , here is your excuse . 
Tam Anster will make a better hand of it with the cattle onyway . 
Ay , ay ! says Andie , Tam'll can deal with them the best . 
And troth ! the mair I think of it , the less I see we would be required . 
The place ay , feggs ! they had forgot the place . 
Whereupon , with scarce more words , we stepped suddenly on board the boat , cast off , and set the lug . 
It was our first care to set Anster ashore in a cove by the Glenteithy Rocks , so that the deliverance of our maroons might be duly seen to the next day . 
Thence we kept away up Firth . 
The breeze , which was then so spirited , swiftly declined , but never wholly failed us . 
All day we kept moving , though often not much more and it was after dark ere we were up with the Queensferry . 
I must remain on board , but I thought no harm to communicate with the shore in writing . 
In about an hour he came again , with a purse of money and the assurance that a good horse should be standing saddled for me by two to morrow at Clackmannan Pool . 
This done , and the boat riding by her stone anchor , we lay down to sleep under the sail . 
We were in the Pool the next day long ere two and there was nothing left for me but to sit and wait . 
I felt little alacrity upon my errand . 
By shortly after one the horse was at the waterside , and I could see a man walking it to and fro till I should land , which vastly swelled my impatience . 
In a little more than an hour I had passed that town , and was already mounting Alan Water side , when the weather broke in a small tempest . 
the line of my journey with Alan . 
This I did with open eyes , foreseeing a great risk in it , which the tempest had now brought to a reality . 
The last that I knew of where I was , I think it must have been about Uam Var the hour perhaps six at night . 
I must still think it great good fortune that I got about eleven to my destination , the house of Duncan Dhu . 
Where I had wandered in the interval perhaps the horse could tell . 
I know we were twice down , and once over the saddle and for a moment carried away in a roaring burn . 
Steed and rider were bemired up to the eyes . 
From Duncan I had news of the trial . 
The more part of the night we walked blindfold among sheets of rain , and day found us aimless on the mountains . 
I stood certainly more in need of a change of raiment and a bed to lie on , than of all the benefits in Christianity . 
I set the door of the church with the dirty Duncan at my tails , and finding a vacant place sat down . 
The sermon was in English on account of the assize . 
The judges were present with their armed attendants , the halberts glittered in a corner by the door , and the seats were thronged beyond custom with the array of lawyers . 
The first that I singled out was Prestongrange . 
He sat well forward , like an eager horseman in the saddle , his lips moving with relish , his eyes glued on the minister the doctrine was clearly to his mind . 
Charles Stewart , on the other hand , was half asleep , and looked harassed and pale . 
In the course of this restlessness his eye alighted on myself . 
were whispering information the rest questions and the minister himself seemed quite discountenanced by the flutter in the church and sudden stir and whispering . 
His voice changed , he plainly faltered , nor did he again recover the easy conviction and full tones of his delivery . 
It would be a puzzle to him till his dying day , why a sermon that had gone with triumph through four parts , should this miscarry in the fifth . 
As for me , I continued to sit there , very wet and weary , and a good deal anxious as to what should happen next , but greatly exulting in my success . 
CHAPTER XVII THE MEMORIAL THE last word of the blessing was scarce out of the minister's mouth before Stewart had me by the arm . 
Am I yet in time ? I asked . 
Ay and no , said he . 
The thing has been public from the start . 
The panel kent it , 'YE MAY DO WHAT YE WILL FOR ME , whispers he two days ago . 
'YE KEN MY FATE BY WHAT THE DUKE OF ARGYLE HAS JUST SAID TO MR . 
The oak shall go over the myrtle yet we'll ding the Campbells yet in their own town . 
What remained to be done , or how I was to do it , was what he never told me nor , I believe , so much as thought of . 
We'll ding the Campbells yet ! that was still his overcome . 
And it was forced home upon my mind how this , that had the externals of a sober process of law , was in its essence a clan battle between savage clans . 
I thought my friend the Writer none of the least savage . 
These were covenanted to dine with the Writer after sermon , and I was very obligingly included of the party . 
No sooner the cloth lifted , and the first bowl very artfully compounded by Sheriff Miller , than we fell to the subject in hand . 
I made a short narration of my seizure and captivity , and was then examined and re examined upon the circumstances of the murder . 
You show him besides , at the risk of his own liberty , actively furthering the criminal's escape . 
depends on the bare word of Alan or of James , the two accused . 
I am of the same opinion , said Sheriff Miller . 
I think we may all be very much obliged to Prestongrange for taking a most uncomfortable witness out of our way . 
And chiefly , I think , Mr. Balfour himself might be obliged . 
For you talk of a third accomplice , but Mr. Balfour has very much the appearance of a fourth . 
Allow me , sirs ! interposed Stewart the Writer . 
And suppose we took up Mr. Balfour's cause to morrow ? said Stewart Hall . 
I am much deceived or we should find so many impediments thrown in our path , as that James should have been hanged before we had found a court to hear us . 
This is a great scandal , but I suppose we have none of us forgot a greater still , I mean the matter of the Lady Grange . 
This is a scene , gentleman , of clan animosity . 
The hatred of the name which I have the honour to bear , rages in high quarters . 
There is nothing here to be viewed but naked Campbell spite and scurvy Campbell intrigue . 
Through all this Mr. Miller sat quiet . 
It was plain he had a word to say , and waited for the fit occasion . 
Colstoun had wound up one of his speeches with some expression of their duty to their client . 
His brother sheriff was pleased , I suppose , with the transition . 
He took the table in his confidence with a gesture and a look . 
That suggests to me a consideration which seems overlooked , said he . 
The interest of our client goes certainly before all , but the world does not come to an end with James Stewart . 
Whereat he cocked his eye . 
I might condescend , EXEMPLI GRATIA , upon a Mr. George Brown , a Mr. Thomas Miller , and a Mr. David Balfour . 
The whole table turned to him with a common movement . 
Properly handled and carefully redd out , his is a story that could scarcely fail to have some consequence , he continued . 
The whole administration of justice , from its highest officer downward , would be totally discredited and it looks to me as if they would need to be replaced . 
He seemed to shine with cunning as he said it . 
And I need not point out to ye that this of Mr. Balfour's would be a remarkable bonny cause to appear in , he added . 
I shall give but the two specimens . 
It was proposed to approach Simon Fraser , whose testimony , if it could be obtained , would prove certainly fatal to Argyle and to Prestongrange . 
Miller highly approved of the attempt . 
We have here before us a dreeping roast , said he , here is cut and come again for all . 
And methought all licked their lips . 
The other was already near the end . 
Stewart the Writer was out of the body with delight , smelling vengeance on his chief enemy , the Duke . 
Gentlemen , cried he , charging his glass , here is to Sheriff Miller . 
His legal abilities are known to all . 
His culinary , this bowl in front of us is here to speak for . 
But when it comes to the poleetical ! cries he , and drains the glass . 
Ay , but it will hardly prove politics in your meaning , my friend , said the gratified Miller . 
A revolution , if you like , and I think I can promise you that historical writers shall date from Mr. Balfour's cause . 
But properly guided , Mr. Stewart , tenderly guided , it shall prove a peaceful revolution . 
And if the damned Campbells get their ears rubbed , what care I ? cries Stewart , smiting down his fist . 
It will be thought I was not very well pleased with all this , though I could scarce forbear smiling at a kind of innocency in these old intriguers . 
I have to thank you , gentlemen , for your advice , said I. And now I would like , by your leave , to set you two or three questions . 
To proceed , then , said I , will it do any good to Scotland ? We have a saying that it is an ill bird that fouls his own nest . 
Then came the year 'Forty five , which made Scotland to be talked of everywhere but I never heard it said we had anyway gained by the 'Forty five . 
And now we come to this cause of Mr. Balfour's , as you call it . 
Sheriff Miller tells us historical writers are to date from it , and I would not wonder . 
It is only my fear they would date from it as a period of calamity and public reproach . 
The nimble witted Miller had already smelt where I was travelling to , and made haste to get on the same road . 
Forcibly put , Mr. Balfour , says he . 
A weighty observe , sir . 
We have next to ask ourselves if it will be good for King George , I pursued . 
I have them a chance to answer , but none volunteered . 
I hope he will pardon me if I think otherwise . 
As for James , it seems at this date of the proceedings , with the sentence as good as pronounced he has no hope but in the King's mercy . 
But Miller was ready at all events . 
This plan has elements of success . 
They all nodded to each other , not without sighs , for the former alternative was doubtless more after their inclination . 
It can do none of us any harm , at least , says Colstoun , heaving another sigh , for he had seen himself Lord Advocate the last ten minutes . 
Methought I was a good deal sacrificed , and rather represented in the light of a firebrand of a fellow whom my cloud of lawyers had restrained with difficulty from extremes . 
This is a very confidential document , said he . 
And my position towards Prestongrange is highly peculiar , I replied . 
No question but I must have touched his heart at our first interview , so that he has since stood my friend consistently . 
But for him , gentlemen , I must now be lying dead or awaiting my sentence alongside poor James . 
For which reason I choose to communicate to him the fact of this memorial as soon as it is copied . 
You are to consider also that this step will make for my protection . 
The Advocate was at the castle dining with his Grace . 
So , Mr. David , this is you ? said he . 
I have heard of your gratitude before , he replied drily , and I think this can scarce be the matter you called me from my wine to listen to . 
I would remember also , if I were you , that you still stand on a very boggy foundation . 
Not now , my lord , I think , said I and if your lordship will but glance an eye along this , you will perhaps think as I do . 
He read it sedulously through , frowning heavily then turned back to one part and another which he seemed to weigh and compare the effect of . 
His face a little lightened . 
This is not so bad but what it might be worse , said he though I am still likely to pay dear for my acquaintance with Mr. David Balfour . 
Rather for your indulgence to that unlucky young man , my lord , said I. He still skimmed the paper , and all the while his spirits seemed to mend . 
And to whom am I indebted for this ? he asked presently . 
Other counsels must have been discussed , I think . 
And the mere truth is , that they were all in favour of a process which should have remarkable consequences in the Parliament House , and prove for them a dripping roast . 
Before I intervened , I think they were on the point of sharing out the different law appointments . 
Our friend Mr. Simon was to be taken in upon some composition . 
These are our friends , said he . 
And what were your reasons for dissenting , Mr. David ? I told them without concealment , expressing , however , with more force and volume those which regarded Prestongrange himself . 
You do me no more than justice , said he . 
I have fought as hard in your interest as you have fought against mine . 
And how came you here to day ? he asked . 
As the case drew out , I began to grow uneasy that I had clipped the period so fine , and I was even expecting you to morrow . 
But to day I never dreamed of it . 
I was not of course , going to betray Andie . 
Speaking of which , my lord , I return your letter . 
And I gave him the enclosure in the counterfeit hand . 
There was the cover also with the seal , said he . 
I have it not , said I. It bore not even an address , and could not compromise a cat . 
The second enclosure I have , and with your permission , I desire to keep it . 
I thought he winced a little , but he said nothing to the point . 
To morrow , he resumed , our business here is to be finished , and I proceed by Glasgow . 
I would be very glad to have you of my party , Mr David . 
I do not deny it will be of service to me , he interrupted . 
I desire even that , when we shall come to Edinburgh , you should alight at my house . 
You have very warm friends in the Miss Grants , who will be overjoyed to have you to themselves . 
If you think I have been of use to you , you can thus easily repay me , and so far from losing , may reap some advantage by the way . 
It is not every strange young man who is presented in society by the King's Advocate . 
this gentleman had caused my head to spin no doubt but what for a moment he did so again now . 
If I became his guest , repentance was excluded I could never think better of my present design and bring any action . 
As I thought upon this I could not quite refrain from smiling . 
Perhaps , however , you underrate friendly sentiments , which are perfectly genuine . 
I have a respect for you , David , mingled with awe , says he , smiling . 
There is one point in which we pull two ways . 
You are trying to hang James Stewart , I am trying to save him . 
I thought he swore to himself . 
You should certainly be called the Bar is the true scene for your talents , says he , bitterly , and then fell a while silent . 
and sold no memorial can help no defalcation of a faithful Mr. David hurt him . 
But will Mr. David Balfour consider why ? It is not because I pushed the case unduly against James for that , I am sure of condonation . 
Hence the scandal hence this damned memorial , striking the paper on his leg . 
My tenderness for you has brought me in this difficulty . 
I wish to know if your tenderness to your own conscience is too great to let you help me out of it . 
And I think my misses have some news for you , says he , dismissing me . 
CHAPTER XVIII THE TEE'D BALL ON the morrow , from the justices' private room , where none could see me , I heard the verdict given in and judgment rendered upon James . 
The Duke's words I am quite sure I have correctly and since that famous passage has been made a subject of dispute , I may as well commemorate my version . 
This is to let the cat out of the bag , indeed , thought I. And that was the general impression . 
Many songs were made in time for the hour's diversion , and are near all forgot . 
James was as fairly murdered as though the Duke had got a fowling piece and stalked him . 
So much of course I knew but others knew not so much , and were more affected by the items of scandal that came to light in the progress of the cause . 
One of the chief was certainly this sally of the justice's . 
But some of my new lawyer friends were still more staggered with an innovation that had disgraced and even vitiated the proceedings . 
One witness was never called . 
matter which was lead in James Stewart's shoes , and I saw was like to prove wings to his own . 
before it reached the counsel for the prisoner . 
This was counted a most insidious device and that the name of James More should be mingled up with it filled me with shame for Catriona and concern for myself . 
we continued to linger some time in a mixture of pleasure and affairs . 
It must be owned the view I had taken of the world in these last months was fit to cast a gloom upon my character . 
That he should affect to find pleasure in my discourse almost surprised me out of my patience . 
I would sit and watch him with a kind of a slow fire of anger in my bowels . 
But I had some warrant for my incredulity in the behaviour of that court of young advocates that hung about in the hope of patronage . 
The sudden favour of a lad not previously heard of troubled them at first out of measure but two days were not gone by before I found myself surrounded with flattery and attention . 
I told him I had not the pleasure of remembering it . 
Why says he , it was Miss Grant herself presented me ! My name is so and so . 
It may very well be , sir , said I but I have kept no mind of it . 
At which he desisted and in the midst of the disgust that commonly overflowed my spirits I had a glisk of pleasure . 
But I have not patience to dwell upon that time at length . 
When I was in company with these young politics I was borne down with shame for myself and my own plain ways , and scorn for them and their duplicity . 
Himself commented on the difference , and bid me be more of my age , and make friends with my young comrades . 
I told him I was slow of making friends . 
I will take the word back , said he . 
But there is such a thing as FAIR GUDE S'EN AND FAIR GUDE DAY , Mr. David . 
Somewhile after I was called to Prestongrange , where he was sitting in his bedgown and nightcap , with his letters round him . 
Mr. David , add he , I have a piece of news for you . 
It concerns some friends of yours , of whom I sometimes think you are a little ashamed , for you have never referred to their existence . 
See you understand , since you make the answering signal , said he . 
And I must compliment you on your excellent taste in beauty . 
But do you know , Mr. David ? this seems to me a very enterprising lass . 
She crops up from every side . 
with a certain Mr. David Balfour . 
This new example is more serious , however and I am afraid I must alarm you with the intelligence that she is now in prison . 
Yes , said he , the little lady is in prison . 
But I would not have you to despair . 
shall procure my downfall , she is to suffer nothing . 
But what has she done ? What is her offence ? I cried . 
It might be almost construed a high treason , he returned , for she has broke the king's Castle of Edinburgh . 
The lady is much my friend , I said . 
I know you would not mock me if the thing were serious . 
Here was one of my previsions justified James More was once again at liberty . 
had been employed to influence the jury . 
Now came his reward , and he was free . 
It might please the authorities to give to it the colour of an escape but I knew better I knew it must be the fulfilment of a bargain . 
The same course of thought relieved me of the least alarm for Catriona . 
She might be thought to have broke prison for her father she might have believed so herself . 
Whereupon thus came out of me the not very politic ejaculation Ah ! I was expecting that ! You have at times a great deal of discretion , too ! says Prestongrange . 
And what is my lord pleased to mean by that ? I asked . 
I was just marvelling , he replied , that being so clever as to draw these inferences , you should not be clever enough to keep them to yourself . 
But I think you would like to hear the details of the affair . 
I have received two versions and the least official is the more full and far the more entertaining , being from the lively pen of my eldest daughter . 
the malefactor is a PROTEGEE of his lordship my papa . 
to have forgotten Grey Eyes . 
making sport among his soldiers of the soutar's greatcoat . 
Presently they hear disputation and the sound of blows inside . 
Out flies the cobbler , his coat flying , the flaps of his hat beat about his face , and the lieutenant and his soldiers mock at him as he runs off . 
I drank Catriona's health this night in public . 
Indeed , the whole town admires her and I think the beaux would wear bits of her garters in their button holes if they could only get them . 
The same faithful gomeral is to despatch this letter by the express along with those of the wiseacres , so that you may hear Tom Fool in company with Solomon . 
Talking of GOMERALS , do tell DAUVIT BALFOUR . 
So my rascal signs herself ! continued Prestongrange . 
And you see , Mr. David , it is quite true what I tell you , that my daughters regard you with the most affectionate playfulness . 
The gomeral is much obliged , said I. And was not this prettily done ! he went on . 
Is not this Highland maid a piece of a heroine ? I was always sure she had a great heart , said I. And I wager she guessed nothing . 
But I beg your pardon , this is to tread upon forbidden subjects . 
I will go bail she did not , he returned , quite openly . 
I will go bail she thought she was flying straight into King George's face . 
Remembrance of Catriona and the thought of her lying in captivity , moved me strangely . 
I could see that even Prestongrange admired , and could not withhold his lips from smiling when he considered her behaviour . 
As for Miss Grant , for all her ill habit of mockery , her admiration shone out plain . 
A kind of a heat came on me . 
I am not your lordship's daughter . 
That I know of ! he put in , smiling . 
I speak like a fool , said I or rather I began wrong . 
There was self seeking in my heart , and I think shame of it now . 
It may be for your lordship's safety to say this fashious Davie Balfour is your friend and housemate . 
Say it then I'll never contradict you . 
But as for your patronage , I give it all back . 
I ask but the one thing let me go , and give me a pass to see her in her prison . 
He looked at me with a hard eye . 
You put the cart before the horse , I think , says he . 
That which I had given was a portion of my liking , which your thankless nature does not seem to have remarked . 
But for my patronage , it is not given , nor is it yet offered . 
And I warn you , you do not know yourself , he added . 
Youth is a hasty season you will think better of all this before a year . 
Well , and I would like to be that kind of youth ! I cried . 
I have seen too much of the other party in these young advocates that fawn upon your lordship and are even at the pains to fawn on me . 
And I have seen it in the old ones also . 
They are all for by ends , the whole clan of them ! It's this that makes me seem to misdoubt your lordship's liking . 
My lord , I ask your pardon , I resumed . 
I have nothing in my chafts but a rough country tongue . 
This might have been reached in fewer words , says Prestongrange grimly . 
It is easy , and it is at times gracious , to say a plain Scots 'ay' . 
If I stand aside when this young maid is in her trial , it's a thing I will be noways advantaged by I will lose by it , I will never gain . 
I would rather make a shipwreck wholly than to build on that foundation . 
He was a minute serious , then smiled . 
in a moss hag , you would find yourself to ride much easier without it . 
Perhaps not just entirely in the same direction though , my lord ! says I. And you shall have the last word , too ! cries he gaily . 
Indeed , he had some cause for gaiety , having now found the means to gain his purpose . 
To lessen the weight of the memorial , or to have a readier answer at his hand , he desired I should appear publicly in the character of his intimate . 
This was the little problem I had to set him of a sudden , and to which he had so briskly found an answer . 
I think shame to write of this man that loaded me with so many goodnesses . 
He was kind to me as any father , yet I ever thought him as false as a cracked bell . 
Him I found already at his desk and already bedabbled with maccabaw , in the same anteroom where I rencountered with James More . 
He read the note scrupulously through like a chapter in his Bible . 
H'm , says he ye come a wee thing ahint hand , Mr. Balfour . 
The bird's flaen we hae letten her out . 
Miss Drummond is set free ? I cried . 
What would we keep her for , ye ken ? To hae made a steer about the bairn would has pleased naebody . 
And where'll she be now ? says I. Gude kens ! says Doig , with a shrug . 
She'll have gone home to Lady Allardyce , I'm thinking , said I. That'll be it , said he . 
Then I'll gang there straight , says I. But ye'll be for a bite or ye go ? said he . 
Neither bite nor sup , said I. I had a good wauch of milk in by Ratho . 
Aweel , aweel , says Doig . 
But ye'll can leave your horse here and your bags , for it seems we're to have your up put . 
Na , na , said I. Tamson's mear would never be the thing for me this day of all days . 
The young lady , when I turned to her , stood in a morning gown , and her hands muffled in the same , as if to hold me at a distance . 
Yet I could not but think there was kindness in the eye with which she saw me . 
My best respects to you , Mistress Grant , said I , bowing . 
The like to yourself , Mr. David , she replied with a deep courtesy . 
And I beg to remind you of an old musty saw , that meat and mass never hindered man . 
The mass I cannot afford you , for we are all good Protestants . 
But the meat I press on your attention . 
And I would not wonder but I could find something for your private ear that would be worth the stopping for . 
Mistress Grant , said I , I believe I am already your debtor for some merry words and I think they were kind too on a piece of unsigned paper . 
Unsigned paper ? says she , and made a droll face , which was likewise wondrous beautiful , as of one trying to remember . 
Or else I am the more deceived , I went on . 
Mr. Doig and I would be blythe to take harder at your clever pen , says I. Once more I have to admire the discretion of all men folk , she replied . 
But if you will not eat , off with you at once you will be back the sooner , for you go on a fool's errand . 
Off with you , Mr. David , she continued , opening the door . 
He has lowpen on his bonny grey , He rade the richt gate and the ready I trow he would neither stint nor stay , For he was seeking his bonny leddy . 
I did not wait to be twice bidden , and did justice to Miss Grant's citation on the way to Dean . 
Old Lady Allardyce walked there alone in the garden , in her hat and mutch , and having a silver mounted staff of some black wood to lean upon . 
What brings you to my poor door ? she cried , speaking high through her nose . 
I was extremely put out at this reception , and the last remark , which seemed like a daft wife's , left me near hand speechless . 
I see I have fallen under your displeasure , ma'am , said I. Yet I will still be so bold as ask after Mistress Drummond . 
She considered me with a burning eye , her lips pressed close together into twenty creases , her hand shaking on her staff . 
This cows all ! she cried . 
Ye come to me to speir for her ? Would God I knew ! She is not here ? I cried . 
She threw up her chin and made a step and a cry at me , so that I fell back incontinent . 
Out upon your leeing throat ! she cried . 
What ! ye come and speir at me ! She's in jyle , whaur ye took her to that's all there is to it . 
I thought it not good to delay longer in that place , because I remarked her passion to be rising . 
As I turned to the horse post she even followed me and I make no shame to confess that I rode away with the one stirrup on and scrambling for the other . 
As I knew no other quarter where I could push my inquiries , there was nothing left me but to return to the Advocate's . 
But this was the end of her rigours , and presently , after making some excuse of which I have no mind , she carried me away in private to her father's library . 
I should not fail to say she was dressed to the nines , and appeared extraordinary handsome . 
Now , Mr. David , sit ye down here and let us have a two handed crack , said she . 
For I have much to tell you , and it appears besides that I have been grossly unjust to your good taste . 
In what manner , Mistress Grant ? I asked . 
I trust I have never seemed to fail in due respect . 
I will be your surety , Mr , David , said she . 
Your respect , whether to yourself or your poor neighbours , has been always and most fortunately beyond imitation . 
But that is by the question . 
You got a note from me ? she asked . 
I was so bold as to suppose so upon inference , said I , and it was kindly thought upon . 
It must have prodigiously surprised you , said she . 
But let us begin with the beginning . 
I fear I was sadly pedantical , said I , overcome with confusion at the memory . 
You are only to consider I am quite unused with the society of ladies . 
I will say the less about the grammar then , she replied . 
to the Bass Rock solan geese being perhaps more to your mind than bonny lasses . 
Through all this raillery there was something indulgent in the lady's eye which made me suppose there might be better coming . 
You take a pleasure to torment me , said I , and I make a very feckless plaything but let me ask you to be more merciful . 
At this time there is but the one thing that I care to hear of , and that will be news of Catriona . 
Do you call her by that name to her face , Mr. Balfour ? she asked . 
In troth , and I am not very sure , I stammered . 
I would not do so in any case to strangers , said Miss Grant . 
I may have the greater need of her , ma'am , said I. Come , this is better ! says Miss Grant . 
Well , here you have the pick of the two at your hand , and must needs speak of the other , said she . 
This is never the way to please the ladies , Mr. Balfour . 
But , mistress , said I , there are surely other things besides mere beauty . 
By which I am to understand that I am no better than I should be , perhaps ? she asked . 
There is a word well said at last , and I will reward you for it with my story . 
I went to her direct she rose as I came in , and I knew her at a look . 
'GREY EYES ! says I to myself , but was more wise than to let on . 
YOU WILL BE MISS GRANT AT LAST ? she says , rising and looking at me hard and pitiful . 
AY , IT WAS TRUE HE SAID , YOU ARE BONNY AT ALL EVENTS . 
LADY , she said , WE ARE KINSFOLK , WE ARE BOTH COME OF THE BLOOD OF THE SONS OF ALPIN . 
MY DEAR , I replied , I THINK NO MORE OF ALPIN OR HIS SONS THAN WHAT I DO OF A KALESTOCK . 
YOU HAVE A BETTER ARGUMENT IN THESE TEARS UPON YOUR BONNY FACE . 
And at that I was so weak minded as to kiss her , which is what you would like to do dearly , and I wager will never find the courage of . 
I say it was weak minded of me , for I knew no more of her than the outside but it was the wisest stroke I could have hit upon . 
her heart went out to me . 
Ay , it is a fine lass ! She is as clean as hill well water . 
She is e'en't ! I cried . 
AND THEN I MINDED AT LONG LAST , says she , THAT WE WERE KINSWOMEN , AND THAT MR . 
That was when I forgave yourself , Mr. Davie . 
You will have many hours to rally me in , said I and I think besides you do yourself injustice . 
I think it was Catriona turned your heart in my direction . 
She is too simple to perceive as you do the stiffness of her friend . 
I would not like to wager upon that , Mr. David , said she . 
The lasses have clear eyes . 
But at least she is your friend entirely , as I was to see . 
I carried her in to his lordship my papa and his Advocacy being in a favourable stage of claret , was so good as to receive the pair of us . 
, till I vow I was proud of my sex because it was done so pretty , and ashamed for it because of the smallness of the occasion . 
But we took him in hand , the pair of us , and brought that matter straight . 
Properly managed and that means managed by me there is no one to compare with my papa . 
He has been a good man to me , said I. Well , he was a good man to Katrine , and I was there to see to it , said she . 
And she pled for me ? say I. She did that , and very movingly , said Miss Grant . 
I would not like to tell you what she said I find you vain enough already . 
God reward her for it ! cried I. With Mr. David Balfour , I suppose ? says she . 
You do me too much injustice at the last ! I cried . 
I would tremble to think of her in such hard hands . 
She kissed that hand of mine . 
Ay , but she did . 
And why ? because she thought I was playing a brave part and might be going to my death . 
It was not for my sake but I need not be telling that to you , that cannot look at me without laughter . 
It was for the love of what she thought was bravery . 
I believe there is none but me and poor Prince Charlie had that honour done them . 
Me ? I cried , I would never dare . 
I can speak to you , Miss Grant , because it's a matter of indifference what ye think of me . 
But her ? no fear ! said I. I think you have the largest feet in all broad Scotland , says she . 
Troth they are no very small , said I , looking down . 
Ah , poor Catriona ! cries Miss Grant . 
, I was never swift at the uptake in such flimsy talk . 
Ah well , Mr. David , she said , it goes sore against my conscience , but I see I shall have to be your speaking board . 
Believe me , you will be in that way much better served than you could serve yourself , for I will keep the big feet out of the platter . 
You know where she is , then ? I exclaimed . 
That I do , Mr. David , and will never tell , said she . 
Why that ? I asked . 
Well , she said , I am a good friend , as you will soon discover and the chief of those that I am friend to is my papa . 
I assure you , you will never heat nor melt me out of that , so you may spare me your sheep's eyes and adieu to your David Balfourship for the now . 
But there is yet one thing more , I cried . 
There is one thing that must be stopped , being mere ruin to herself , and to me too . 
Well , she said , be brief I have spent half the day on you already . 
My Lady Allardyce believes , I began she supposes she thinks that I abducted her . 
You may leave it in my hands . 
And with that she withdrew out of the library . 
You are not to suppose my education was neglected on the contrary , I was kept extremely busy . 
One way with another , no doubt I was a good deal improved to look at , and acquired a bit of modest air that would have surprised the good folks at Essendean . 
The two younger misses were very willing to discuss a point of my habiliment , because that was in the line of their chief thoughts . 
The eldest daughter and the Advocate himself were thus my principal friends , and our familiarity was much increased by a pleasure that we took in common . 
Here Prestongrange alighted down , gave me his horse , an proceeded alone to visit my uncle . 
Poor David Balfour ! said Miss Grant . 
What passed during the visit I have never heard but it would doubtless not be very agreeable to Ebenezer , for when the Advocate came forth again his face was dark . 
I think you will soon be the laird indeed , Mr. Davie , says he , turning half about with the one foot in the stirrup . 
Thence we pushed to the Queensferry , where Rankeillor gave us a good welcome , being indeed out of the body to receive so great a visitor . 
a great esteem for myself and concern for my fortunes . 
To while this time , Miss Grant and I and young Rankeillor took boat and passed the Hope to Limekilns . 
she seemed , if anything , to be a little gratified . 
This was her own thought , for she had been taken with my account of Alison Hastie , and desired to see the lass herself . 
Is this all the welcome I am to get ? said I , holding out my hand . 
Though I kent ye were come to your ain folk by the grand present that ye sent me and that I thank ye for with a' my heart . 
There , said Miss Grant to me , run out by with ye , like a guid bairn . 
I didnae come here to stand and haud a candle it's her and me that are to crack . 
This very much affected me . 
About candlelight we came home from this excursion . 
For a good while I heard nothing further of Catriona my Miss Grant remaining quite impenetrable , and stopping my mouth with pleasantries . 
with nothing intended on my side . 
The causelessness of all this fuff stirred my own bile . 
I have said nothing you can properly object to , said I , and as for my knees , that is an attitude I keep for God . 
And as a goddess I am to be served ! she cried , shaking her brown locks at me and with a bright colour . 
But for these play acting postures , you can go to others . 
O Davie ! she said . 
I think it a bairnly thing , I said , not worthy in you to ask , or me to render . 
Yet I will not refuse you , neither , said I and the stain , if there be any , rests with yourself . 
And at that I kneeled fairly down . 
There is the proper station , there is where I have been manoeuvring to bring you . 
And then , suddenly , Kep , said she , flung me a folded billet , and ran from the apartment laughing . 
The billet had neither place nor date . 
Dear Mr. David , it began , I get your news continually by my cousin , Miss Grant , and it is a pleisand hearing . 
I am very well , in a good place , among good folk , but necessitated to be quite private , though I am hoping that at long last we may meet again . 
All your friendships have been told me by my loving cousin , who loves us both . 
She bids me to send you this writing , and oversees the same . 
I will be asking you to do all her commands , and rest your affectionate friend , Catriona Macgregor Drummond . 
that I should have done as I was here bidden and gone forthright to the house by Dean . 
But the old lady was now entirely changed and supple as a glove . 
These kept her private till all was ripe , heated and helped her to attempt her father's rescue , and after she was discharged from prison received her again into the same secrecy . 
Thus Prestongrange obtained and used his instrument nor did there leak out the smallest word of his acquaintance with the daughter of James More . 
was broken of his rank , and as for Catriona , all men were well enough pleased that her fault should be passed by in silence . 
I could never induce Miss Grant to carry back an answer . 
No , she would say , when I persisted , I am going to keep the big feet out of the platter . 
This was the more hard to bear , as I was aware she saw my little friend many times in the week , and carried her my news whenever I had behaved myself . 
At last she treated me to what she called an indulgence , and I thought rather more of a banter . 
was particular kind , and told me a great deal that was worth knowledge of old folks and past affairs in Scotland . 
Here , upon some pretext , Miss Grant left me one day alone with Miss Ramsay . 
I mind I thought that lady inattentive and like one preoccupied . 
I was besides very uncomfortable , for the window , contrary to custom , was left open and the day was cold . 
All at once the voice of Miss Grant sounded in my ears as from a distance . 
Here , Shaws ! she cried , keek out of the window and see what I have broughten you . 
I think it was the prettiest sight that ever I beheld . 
There ! says Miss Grant , I wanted her to see you in your braws like the lass of Limekilns . 
For so merry and sensible a lady , Miss Grant was certainly wonderful taken up with duds . 
Catriona ! was all I could get out . 
As for her , she said nothing in the world , but only waved her hand and smiled to me , and was suddenly carried away again from before the loophole . 
She had passed her word , she said , and I must be a good lad . 
It was impossible to burst the door , even if it had been mannerly it was impossible I should leap from the window , being seven storeys above ground . 
All I could do was to crane over the close and watch for their reappearance from the stair . 
It was little to see , being no more than the tops of their two heads each on a ridiculous bobbin of skirts , like to a pair of pincushions . 
by Miss Grant , who told her folk were never seen to less advantage than from above downward . 
On the way home , as soon as I was set free , I upbraided Miss Grant with her cruelty . 
I am sorry you was disappointed , says she demurely . 
For my part I was very pleased . 
You looked better than I dreaded you looked if it will not make you vain a mighty pretty young man when you appeared in the window . 
You are to remember that she could not see your feet , says she , with the manner of one reassuring me . 
O ! cried I , leave my feet be they are no bigger than my neighbours' . 
They are even smaller than some , said she , but I speak in parables like a Hebrew prophet . 
Oh , Barbara , let me see her properly ! I pleaded . 
YOU can you see her when you please let me have half an hour . 
There was never the least word heard of the memorial , or none by me . 
till the end of time . 
James was hanged and here was I dwelling in the house of Prestongrange , and grateful to him for his fatherly attention . 
He was hanged and behold ! when I met Mr. Simon in the causeway , I was fain to pull off my beaver to him like a good little boy before his dominie . 
For , upon a retrospect , it appeared I had not done so grandly , after all but with the greatest possible amount of big speech and preparation , had accomplished nothing . 
The th of the same month a ship was advertised to sail from Leith and I was suddenly recommended to make up my mails for Leyden . 
To Prestongrange I could , of course , say nothing for I had already been a long while sorning on his house and table . 
Have I not given you my advice ? she asked . 
I know you have , said I , and I know how much I am beholden to you already , and that I am bidden to obey your orders . 
But you must confess you are something too merry a lass at times to lippen to entirely . 
I will tell you , then , said she . 
Since I could make no more of her , I was fain to be content with this . 
The day came round at last when she and I were to separate . 
I knew she considered me too backward , and rather desired to rise in her opinion on that head . 
felt upon both sides , it would have looked cold like to be anyways stiff . 
You forget yourself strangely , Mr. Balfour , said she . 
I cannot call to mind that I have given you any right to presume on our acquaintancy . 
You inimitable bairn ? she cried . 
They're bound to answer 'No' God never made the lass that could resist the temptation . 
It's supposed by divines to be the curse of Eve because she did not say it when the devil offered her the apple , her daughters can say nothing else . 
Since I am so soon to lose my bonny professor , I began . 
This is gallant , indeed , says she curtseying . 
I would put the one question , I went on . 
May I ask a lass to marry to me ? You think you could not marry her without ! she asked . 
This was very little trouble some , for the reason that the day was a flat calm , very frosty and cloudy , and with a low shifting fog upon the water . 
The body of the vessel was thus quite hid as I drew near , but the tall spars of her stood high and bright in a sunshine like the flickering of a fire . 
, a very hearty , friendly tarpaulin of a man , but at the moment in rather of a bustle . 
No doubt we were both a good deal changed she seemed to have shot up like a young , comely tree . 
So fill up here with good advice . 
Do not be too blate , and for God's sake do not try to be too forward nothing acts you worse . 
I am Your affectionate friend and governess , BARBARA GRANT . 
Catriona ? said I. It seemed that was the first and last word of my eloquence . 
You will be glad to see me again ? says she . 
And I think that is an idle word , said I. We are too deep friends to make speech upon such trifles . 
Is she not the girl of all the world ? she cried again . 
I was never knowing such a girl so honest and so beautiful . 
And yet she cared no more for Alpin than what she did for a kale stock , said I. Ah , she will say so indeed ! cries Catriona . 
Yet it was for the name and the gentle kind blood that she took me up and was so good to me . 
Well , I will tell you why it was , said I. There are all sorts of people's faces in this world . 
There is Barbara's face , that everyone must look at and admire , and think her a fine , brave , merry girl . 
And then there is your face , which is quite different I never knew how different till to day . 
You cannot see yourself , and that is why you do not understand but it was for the love of your face that she took you up and was so good to you . 
And everybody in the world would do the same . 
She will have told me all there was of Mr. David , only just that he would sail upon this very same ship . 
And why it is you go ? I told her . 
I could say no more than just O ! the name of James More always drying up my very voice . 
She was quick to perceive it , and to guess some portion of my thought . 
There is one thing I must be saying first of all , Mr. David , said she . 
I think two of my kinsfolk have not behaved to you altogether very well . 
And the one of them two is James More , my father , and the other is the Laird of Prestongrange . 
Prestongrange will have spoken by himself , or his daughter in the place of him . 
And for the sake of all your friendships , I will be asking you to pardon my father and family for that same mistake . 
Catriona , said I , what that mistake was I do not care to know . 
I know but the one thing that you went to Prestongrange and begged my life upon your knees . 
O , I ken well enough it was for your father that you went , but when you were there you pleaded for me also . 
It is a thing I cannot speak of . 
Let us never speak more , we two , of pardon or offence . 
There were six passengers besides our two selves , which made of it a full cabin . 
Three were solid merchants out of Leith , Kirkcaldy , and Dundee , all engaged in the same adventure into High Germany . 
One was a Hollander returning the rest worthy merchants' wives , to the charge of one of whom Catriona was recommended . 
was by great good fortune heavily incommoded by the sea , and lay day and night on the broad of her back . 
We had the next seats together at the table , where I waited on her with extraordinary pleasure . 
from the first blink of the sun till eight or nine at night under the clear stars . 
to play the young lady of experience . 
But soon we grew plainer with each other . 
with a more deep emotion . 
About the same time the bottom seemed to fall out of our conversation , and neither one of us the less pleased . 
Whiles she would tell me old wives' tales , of which she had a wonderful variety , many of them from my friend red headed Niel . 
Whiles , again , we would sit entirely silent , not communicating even with a look , and tasting pleasure enough in the sweetness of that neighbourhood . 
I speak here only for myself . 
Of what was in the maid's mind , I am not very sure that ever I asked myself and what was in my own , I was afraid to consider . 
I need make no secret of it now , either to myself or to the reader I was fallen totally in love . 
She came between me and the sun . 
But I was too like a miser of what joys I had , and would venture nothing on a hazard . 
It befell one day when we were at this practice , that we came on a discourse of friends and friendship , and I think now that we were sailing near the wind . 
It is not much that I have done , said she , and I could be telling you the five fifths of it in two three words . 
It is only a girl I am , and what can befall a girl , at all events ? But I went with the clan in the year . 
The men marched with swords and fire locks , and some of them in brigades in the same set of tartan they were not backward at the marching , I can tell you . 
And there were gentlemen from the Low Country , with their tenants mounted and trumpets to sound , and there was a grant skirling of war pipes . 
I rode on a little Highland horse on the right hand of my father , James More , and of Glengyle himself . 
O , well , these were the good days , but it is all like a dream that I have seen and then awakened . 
Yes , I have walked in the night , many's the time , and my heart great in me for terror of the darkness . 
It is a strange thing I will never have been meddled with by a bogle but they say a maid goes safe . 
Next there was my uncle's marriage , and that was a dreadful affair beyond all . 
She would and she wouldn't she was for marrying Rob the one minute , and the next she would be for none of him . 
I will never have seen such a feckless creature of a woman surely all there was of her would tell her ay or no . 
Well , she was a widow and I can never be thinking a widow a good woman . 
Catriona ! says I , how do you make out that ? I do not know , said she I am only telling you the seeming in my heart . 
I have never thought much of any females since that day . 
And so in the end my father , James More , came to be cast in prison , and you know the rest of it an well as me . 
And through all you had no friends ? said I. No , said she I have been pretty chief with two three lasses on the braes , but not to call it friends . 
Well , mine is a plain tale , said I. I never had a friend to my name till I met in with you . 
And that brave Mr. Stewart ? she asked . 
O , yes , I was forgetting him , I said . 
But he in a man , and that in very different . 
I would think so , said she . 
O , yes , it is quite different . 
And then there was one other , said I. I once thought I had a friend , but it proved a disappointment . 
Eh , Catriona , it took me a long while to forgive the world . 
There is not anything more bitter than to lose a fancied friend . 
Here are his letters , said I , and all the letters that ever I got . 
That will be the last I'll can tell of myself ye know the lave as well as I do . 
Will you let me read them , then ? says she . 
I told her , IF SHE WOULD BE AT THE PAINS and she bade me go away and she would read them from the one end to the other . 
But of these last I had no particular mind at the moment . 
When I returned to her again , I had a faint , painful impression as of a buckle slipped , so coldly she returned the packet . 
You have read them ? said I and I thought my voice sounded not wholly natural , for I was turning in my mind for what could ail her . 
Did you mean me to read all ? she asked . 
I told her Yes , with a drooping voice . 
The last of them as well ? said she . 
I knew where we were now yet I would not lie to her either . 
I gave them all without afterthought , I said , as I supposed that you would read them . 
I see no harm in any . 
I will be differently made , said she . 
I thank God I am differently made . 
It was not a fit letter to be shown me . 
It was not fit to be written . 
I think it is sometimes the friendship that was fancied ! I cried . 
Yet you would show me that same letter ! says she . 
I want no such friends . 
I can be doing very well , Mr. Balfour , without her or you . 
This is your fine gratitude ! says I. I am very much obliged to you , said she . 
I will be asking you to take away your letters . 
She seemed to choke upon the word , so that it sounded like an oath . 
You shall never ask twice , said I picked up that bundle , walked a little way forward and cast them as far as possible into the sea . 
For a very little more I could have cast myself after them . 
The rest of the day I walked up and down raging . 
There were few names so ill but what I gave her them in my own mind before the sun went down . 
, perhaps she would have taken it pretty well and only because it had been written down , and with a spice of jocularity , up she must fuff in this ridiculous passion . 
It seemed to me there was a want of penetration in the female sex , to make angels weep over the case of the poor men . 
No sooner the meal done than she betook herself to attend on Mrs. Gebbie , which I think she had a little neglected heretofore . 
Not but what the Captain seemed a worthy , fatherly man but I hated to behold her in the least familiarity with anyone except myself . 
I have no guess how I have offended , said I it should scarce be beyond pardon , then . 
O , try if you can pardon me . 
I have no pardon to give , said she and the words seemed to come out of her throat like marbles . 
I will be very much obliged for all your friendships . 
And she made me an eighth part of a curtsey . 
But I had schooled myself beforehand to say more , and I was going to say it too . 
There is one thing , said I. If I have shocked your particularity by the showing of that letter , it cannot touch Miss Grant . 
She wrote not to you , but to a poor , common , ordinary lad , who might have had more sense than show it . 
If you are to blame me I will advise you to say no more about that girl , at all events ! said Catriona . 
It is her I will never look the road of , not if she lay dying . 
She turned away from me , and suddenly back . 
Will you swear you will have no more to deal with her ? she cried . 
Indeed , and I will never be so unjust then , said I nor yet so ungrateful . 
And now it was I that turned away . 
The song of the leadsman in the chains was now scarce ceasing , for we thrid all the way among shoals . 
About nine in the morning , in a burst of wintry sun between two squalls of hail , I had my first look of Holland a line of windmills birling in the breeze . 
It was besides my first knowledge of these daft like contrivances , which gave me a near sense of foreign travel and a new world and life . 
We came to an anchor about half past eleven , outside the harbour of Helvoetsluys , in a place where the sea sometimes broke and the ship pitched outrageously . 
Presently a boat , that was backed like a partancrab , came gingerly alongside , and the skipper of it hailed our master in the Dutch . 
Thence Captain Sang turned , very troubled like , to Catriona and the rest of us crowding about , the nature of the difficulty was made plain to all . 
declared himself still capable to save . 
Your father , said he , would be gey an little pleased if we was to break a leg to ye , Miss Drummond , let a be drowning of you . 
Take my way of it , says he , and come on by with the rest of us here to Rotterdam . 
But Catriona would hear of no change . 
My father , James More , will have arranged it so , was her first word and her last . 
So it fell out that captain and passengers , not knowing of her destitution and she being too proud to tell them spoke in vain . 
But you ken nae French and nae Dutch neither , said one . 
It is very true , says she , but since the year there are so many of the honest Scotch abroad that I will be doing very well . 
There was a pretty country simplicity in this that made some laugh , others looked the more sorry , and Mr. Gebbie fall outright in a passion . 
But this was to reckon without the lass's courage . 
of hesitation to be sure , she was not to be beat by her discarded friend . 
There was no minute lost , and scarce time given for any to interfere if they had wished the same . 
I was so happy as to catch her , and the fishers readily supporting us , escaped a fall . 
we were passed aft to our places by the steersman and Captain Sang and all the crew and passengers cheering and crying farewell , the boat was put about for shore . 
As soon as Catriona came a little to herself she unhanded me suddenly , but said no word . 
We were no sooner in smooth water than the patroon , according to their beastly Hollands custom , stopped his boat and required of us our fares . 
Two guilders was the man's demand between three and four shillings English money for each passenger . 
But at this Catriona began to cry out with a vast deal of agitation . 
She had asked of Captain Sang , she said , and the fare was but an English shilling . 
Do you think I will have come on board and not ask first ? cries she . 
I privately slipped in the rogue's hand six shillings , whereupon he was obliging enough to receive from her the other shilling without more complaint . 
No doubt I was a good deal nettled and ashamed . 
It will be time enough when I get you to your father , said I , little thinking that I spoke so true . 
I can tell him a fine tale of a loyal daughter . 
O , I do not think I will be a loyal girl , at all events , she cried , with a great deal of painfulness in the expression . 
I do not think my heart is true . 
Yet there are very few that would have made that leap , and all to obey a father's orders , I observed . 
I cannot have you to be thinking of me so , she cried again . 
When you had done that same , how would I stop behind ? And at all events that was not all the reasons . 
Whereupon , with a burning face , she told me the plain truth upon her poverty . 
You forget James More , my father , is a poor gentleman , said she . 
He is a hunted exile . 
But I think not all your friends are hunted exiles , I exclaimed . 
I will have lied to all of them , she replied . 
I will have told them all that I had plenty . 
I could not be lowering James More to them . 
But at the time I was ignorant of this , and the mere thought of her destitution and the perils in which see must have fallen , had ruffled me almost beyond reason . 
Well , well , well , said I , you will have to learn more sense . 
He was a big chafted , ruddy , lusty man , with a crooked hard look to him and he made us not that much civility as offer us a seat . 
Is James More Macgregor now in Helvoet , sir ? says I. I ken nobody by such a name , says he , impatient like . 
The young lady is that gentleman's daughter , sir , said I , before whom , I think you will agree with me , it is not very becoming to discuss his character . 
I have nothing to make either with him , or her , or you ! cries he in his gross voice . 
An error it seems to have been , but I think this places both you and me who am but her fellow traveller by accident under a strong obligation to help our countrywoman . 
Will you ding me daft ? he cries . 
I tell ye I ken naething and care less either for him or his breed . 
I tell ye the man owes me money . 
That may very well be , sir , said I , who was now rather more angry than himself . 
At least , I owe you nothing the young lady is under my protection and I am neither at all used with these manners , nor in the least content with them . 
The blood left his lusty countenance . 
For the Lord's sake dinna be hasty , sir ! he cried . 
I am truly wishfu' no to be offensive . 
But ye ken , sir , I'm like a wheen guid natured , honest , canty auld fellows my bark is waur nor my bite . 
Very good , sir , said I. Then I will make that much freedom with your kindness as trouble you for your last news of Mr. Drummond . 
You're welcome , sir ! said he . 
, he'll just have clean forgotten her . 
I ken the man , ye see I have lost siller by him ere now . 
For there is a sense in whilk I may be nearly almost said to be his correspondent . 
The fact is , we are employed thegether in a business affair , and I think it's like to turn out a dear affair for Sandie Sprott . 
The man's as guid's my pairtner , and I give ye my mere word I ken naething by where he is . 
Ye see what way I stand with it and it's clear I'm no very likely to meddle up with the young leddy , as ye ca' her . 
She cannae stop here , that's ae thing certain sure . 
Dod , sir , I'm a lone man ! If I was to tak her in , its highly possible the hellicat would try and gar me marry her when he turned up . 
Enough of this talk , said I. I will take the young leddy among better friends . 
Give me , pen , ink , and paper , and I will leave here for James More the address of my correspondent in Leyden . 
He can inquire from me where he is to seek his daughter . 
I advanced him to that effect a dollar or two to be a cover , and he gave me an acknowledgment in writing of the sum . 
we left the house of this unpalatable rascal . 
Now , said I , let us get back to yon same inn where they can speak the French , have a piece of dinner , and inquire for conveyances to Rotterdam . 
I will never be easy till I have you safe again in the hands of Mrs. Gebbie . 
I suppose it will have to be , said Catriona , though whoever will be pleased , I do not think it will be her . 
And I will remind you this once again that I have but one shilling , and three baubees . 
And just this once again , said I , I will remind you it was a blessing that I came alongst with you . 
What else would I be thinking all this time ? says she , and I thought weighed a little on my arm . 
It is you that are the good friend to me . 
Once or twice I inquired after the harbour or the berth of the ship ROSE but either fell on some who spoke only Hollands , or my own French failed me . 
A little after we issued forth upon an open place along the harbour . 
We shall be doing now , cries I , as soon as I spied masts . 
Let us walk here by the harbour . 
We are sure to meet some that has the English , and at the best of it we may light upon that very ship . 
It was impossible to chase after the Gebbies into the High Germany , and we had no other acquaintance to fall back upon but Captain Sang himself . 
It was the more gratifying to find the man friendly and wishful to assist . 
He seemed extremely friendly , as I say , but what surprised me a good deal , rather boisterous in the bargain and the cause of this was soon to appear . 
For at the ordinary , calling for Rhenish wine and drinking of it deep , he soon became unutterably tipsy . 
She came out of the ordinary clinging to me close . 
Take me away , David , she said . 
I am not afraid with you . 
And have no cause , my little friend ! cried I , and could have found it in my heart to weep . 
Where will you be taking me ? she said again . 
Don't leave me at all events never leave me . 
Where am I taking you to ? says I stopping , for I had been staving on ahead in mere blindness . 
I must stop and think . 
But I'll not leave you , Catriona the Lord do so to me , and more also , if I should fail or fash you . 
She crept close into me by way of a reply . 
Here , I said , is the stillest place we have hit on yet in this busy byke of a city . 
Let us sit down here under yon tree and consider of our course . 
stood hard by the harbour side . 
I suppose it was in the lane where the women jostled us but there is only the one thing certain , that my purse was gone . 
You will have thought of something good , said she , observing me to pause . 
At the pinch we were in , my mind became suddenly clear as a perspective glass , and I saw there was no choice of methods . 
David , she said , if you will just keep near , I will go anywhere and do anything . 
The courage of my heart , it is all broken . 
Do not be leaving me in this horrible country by myself , and I will do all else . 
Can you start now and march all night ? said I. I will do all that you can ask of me , she said , and never ask you why . 
This was Greek and Hebrew to me but I had other matters to consider , and the first of these was to get clear of that city on the Leyden road . 
It proved a cruel problem and it may have been one or two at night ere we had solved it . 
Once beyond the houses , there was neither moon nor stars to guide us only the whiteness of the way in the midst and a blackness of an alley on both hands . 
The walking was besides made most extraordinary difficult by a plain black frost that fell suddenly in the small hours and turned that highway into one long slide . 
Well , Catriona , said I , here we are like the king's sons and the old wives' daughters in your daft like Highland tales . 
Soon we'll be going over the 'SEVEN BENS , THE SEVEN GLENS AND THE SEVEN MOUNTAIN MOORS' . 
Which was a common byword or overcome in those tales of hers that had stuck in my memory . 
Ah , says she , but here are no glens or mountains ! Though I will never be denying but what the trees and some of the plain places hereabouts are very pretty . 
But our country is the best yet . 
I wish we could say as much for our own folk , says I , recalling Sprott and Sang , and perhaps James More himself . 
I will never complain of the country of my friend , said she , and spoke it out with an accent so particular that I seemed to see the look upon her face . 
It was a good day when you showed me so much love , said she . 
And yet I think shame to be happy too , I went on , and you here on the road in the black night . 
Where in the great world would I be else ? she cried . 
I am thinking I am safest where I am with you . 
I am quite forgiven , then ? I asked . 
Will you not forgive me that time so much as not to take it in your mouth again ? she cried . 
There is nothing in this heart to you but thanks . 
But I will be honest too , she added , with a kind of suddenness , and I'll never can forgive that girl . 
Is this Miss Grant again ? said I. You said yourself she was the best lady in the world . 
So she will be , indeed ! says Catriona . 
But I will never forgive her for all that . 
I will never , never forgive her , and let me hear tell of her no more . 
Well , said I , this beats all that ever came to my knowledge and I wonder that you can indulge yourself in such bairnly whims . 
But Catriona stopped square in the midst of the highway . 
It is this way of it , said she . 
My dear girl , said I , I can make neither head nor tails of this but God forbid that I should do anything to set you on the jee . 
As for talking of Miss Grant , I have no such a mind to it , and I believe it was yourself began it . 
was for your own improvement , for I hate the very look of injustice . 
Not that I do not wish you to have a good pride and a nice female delicacy they become you well but here you show them to excess . 
Well , then , have you done ? said she . 
I have done , said I. A very good thing , said she , and we went on again , but now in silence . 
It was an eerie employment to walk in the gross night , beholding only shadows and hearing nought but our own steps . 
Before the day peeped , came on a warmish rain , and the frost was all wiped away from among our feet . 
I took my cloak to her and sought to hap her in the same she bade me , rather impatiently , to keep it . 
There will be no end to your goodness , said she . 
And we went on again in silence but now all was changed and the happiness that was in my heart was like a fire in a great chimney . 
The rain passed ere day it was but a sloppy morning as we came into the town of Delft . 
Catriona , said I , I believe you have yet a shilling and three baubees ? Are you wanting it ? said she , and passed me her purse . 
She looked at me with open eyes . 
By the light of the new day she was all black and pale for weariness , so that my heart smote me for her . 
But as for her , she broke out laughing . 
My torture ! are we beggars then ! she cried . 
You too ? O , I could have wished for this same thing ! And I am glad to buy your breakfast to you . 
I could have kissed her for that word , not with a lover's mind , but in a heat of admiration . 
For it always warms a man to see a woman brave . 
That road from Delft to the Hague is just five miles of a fine avenue shaded with trees , a canal on the one hand , on the other excellent pastures of cattle . 
It was pleasant here indeed . 
I can come by money in Leyden that will be all well . 
But the trouble is how to dispose of you until your father come . 
I thought last night you seemed a little sweir to part from me ? It will be more than seeming then , said she . 
You are a very young maid , said I , and I am but a very young callant . 
This is a great piece of difficulty . 
I would be a fine man if I had such a sister . 
But the rub is that you are Catriona Drummond . 
And now I will be Catriona Balfour , she said . 
And who is to ken ? They are all strange folk here . 
If you think that it would do , says I. I own it troubles me . 
I would like it very ill , if I advised you at all wrong . 
David , I have no friend here but you , she said . 
The mere truth is , I am too young to be your friend , said I. I am too young to advise you , or you to be advised . 
I see not what else we are to do , and yet I ought to warn you . 
I will have no choice left , said she . 
If you will have me , good and well . 
If you will not she turned and touched her hand upon my arm David , I am afraid , said she . 
No , but I ought to warn you , I began and then bethought me I was the bearer of the purse , and it would never do to seem too churlish . 
I know I was in duty bounden to have spoke more plain . 
I know this was a great blot on my character , for which I was lucky that I did not pay more dear . 
And I daresay inclination pulled me very strong . 
A little beyond the Hague she fell very lame and made the rest of the distance heavily enough . 
It was her excuse , she said , that she was not much used with walking shod . 
I would have had her strip off her shoes and stockings and go barefoot . 
But she pointed out to me that the women of that country , even in the landward roads , appeared to be all shod . 
I must not be disgracing my brother , said she , and was very merry with it all , although her face told tales of her . 
Here I left Catriona , and went forward by myself to find my correspondent . 
There I drew on my credit , and asked to be recommended to some decent , retired lodging . 
Here I fell in a panic . 
, suppose he invite my sister to his house , and that I bring her . 
I shall have a fine ravelled pirn to unwind , and may end by disgracing both the lassie and myself . 
Thereupon I began hastily to expound to him my sister's character . 
She was of a bashful disposition , it appeared , and be extremely fearful of meeting strangers that I had left her at that moment sitting in a public place alone . 
In the midst of which I awoke to a sense of my behaviour , and was turned to one blush . 
The old gentleman was not so much deceived but what he discovered a willingness to be quit of me . 
This implied my presenting of the young man to Catriona . 
But there was one misfortune thinking to help , she was rather towardly than otherwise to my Dutchman . 
And I could not but reflect that Miss Balfour had rather suddenly outgrown her bashfulness . 
And there was another thing , the difference of our speech . 
But the young Hollander was a heavy dog , without so much spirit in his belly as to remark her prettiness , for which I scorned him . 
And as soon as he had found a cover to our heads , he left us alone , which was the greater service of the two . 
CHAPTER XXIV FULL STORY OF A COPY OF HEINECCIUS THE place found was in the upper part of a house backed on a canal . 
A full set of bells hung in that spire and made delightful music and when there was any sun at all , it shone direct in our two chambers . 
From a tavern hard by we had good meals sent in . 
The first night we were both pretty weary , and she extremely so . 
There was little talk between us , and I packed her off to her bed as soon as she had eaten . 
I was a little abashed when she came forth in her one habit , and the mud of the way upon her stockings . 
It pleased me to see her so innocent and thorough in this pleasure . 
The Dutch chintzes I should say were extraordinary cheap and fine but I would be ashamed to set down what I paid for stockings to her . 
that I was ashamed for a great while to spend more and by way of a set off , I left our chambers pretty bare . 
If we had beds , if Catriona was a little braw , and I had light to see her by , we were richly enough lodged for me . 
Here had I taken under my roof , and as good as to my bosom , a young lass extremely beautiful , and whose innocence was her peril . 
The more cause , since I had been entrapped and had entrapped the girl into an undue situation , that I should behave in it with scrupulous nicety . 
She depended on me wholly for her bread and shelter in case I should alarm her delicacy , she had no retreat . 
It was plain I should require a great deal of tact and conduct , perhaps more than my years afforded . 
But I had rushed in where angels might have feared to tread , and there was no way out of that position save by behaving right while I was in it . 
As I thought that name of home , and recalled the image of that figure awaiting me between four walls , my heart beat upon my bosom . 
My troubles began with my return . 
She ran to greet me with an obvious and affecting pleasure . 
I am sure I did it with an ill grace , for I thought to have choked upon the words . 
Well , she said , if you will not be caring for my pretty clothes , see what I have done with our two chambers . 
And she showed me the place all very finely swept , and the fires glowing in the two chimneys . 
I was glad of a chance to seem a little more severe than I quite felt . 
Catriona , said I , I am very much displeased with you , and you must never again lay a hand upon my room . 
She dropped me one of her curtseys which were extraordinary taking . 
If you will be cross , said she , I must be making pretty manners at you , Davie . 
I will be very obedient , as I should be when every stitch upon all there is of me belongs to you . 
But you will not be very cross either , because now I have not anyone else . 
This struck me hard , and I made haste , in a kind of penitence , to blot out all the good effect of my last speech . 
We made our meal with infinite mirth and tenderness and the two seemed to be commingled into one , so that our very laughter sounded like a kindness . 
In the midst of which I awoke to better recollections , made a lame word of excuse , and set myself boorishly to my studies . 
It was a substantial , instructive book that I had bought , by the late Dr . 
Heineccius , in which I was to do a great deal reading these next few days , and often very glad that I had no one to question me of what I read . 
Methought she bit her lip at me a little , and that cut me . 
Indeed it left her wholly solitary , the more as she was very little of a reader , and had never a book . 
But what was I to do ? So the rest of the evening flowed by almost without speech . 
I could have beat myself . 
I stood like a man between Scylla and Charybdis WHAT MUST SHE THINK OF ME ? was my one thought that softened me continually into weakness . 
WHAT IS TO BECOME OF US ? the other which steeled me again to resolution . 
But prayer is not very difficult , and the hitch comes in practice . 
In her presence , and above all if I allowed any beginning of familiarity , I found I had very little command of what should follow . 
But to sit all day in the same room with her , and feign to be engaged upon Heineccius , surpassed my strength . 
The evil of this course was unhappily near as great as its advantage . 
I had the less time of trial , but I believe , while the time lasted , I was tried the more extremely . 
For she being so much left to solitude , she came to greet my return with an increasing fervour that came nigh to overmaster me . 
These friendly offers I must barbarously cast back and my rejection sometimes wounded her so cruelly that I must unbend and seek to make it up to her in kindness . 
The base of my trouble was Catriona's extraordinary innocence , at which I was not so much surprised as filled with pity and admiration . 
that I was not worthy to be descended . 
There was one point in particular on which our warfare turned , and of all things , this was the question of her clothes . 
My baggage had soon followed me from Rotterdam , and hers from Helvoet . 
that when she was friendly she would wear my clothes , and when otherwise her own . 
the renunciation of her gratitude and I felt it so in my bosom , but was generally more wise than to appear to have observed the circumstance . 
Once , indeed , I was betrayed into a childishness greater than her own it fell in this way . 
myself out of that room again , of which I slammed she door as I went out . 
On the steep stair I came near falling , and this brought me to myself , so that I began at once to see the folly of my conduct . 
hanging in the leafless tree . 
I stood by the side of the canal , and looked upon the ice . 
Country people went by on their skates , and I envied them . 
I could see no way out of the pickle I was in no way so much as to return to the room I had just left . 
incivility to my helpless guest . 
I suppose she must have seen me from the open window . 
She was all changed again , to the clocked stockings . 
Are we not to have our walk to day ? said she . 
I was looking at her in a maze . 
Where is your brooch ? says I. She carried her hand to her bosom and coloured high . 
I will have forgotten it , said she . 
I bought it for you , Catriona , said I. She fixed it in the midst of her bosom with the brooch , I could have thought tenderly . 
It is none the better of my handling , said I again , and blushed . 
I will be liking it none the worse , you may be sure of that , said she . 
We did not speak so much that day she seemed a thought on the reserve , though not unkindly . 
We had our walk daily . 
Out in the streets I felt more safe I relaxed a little in my guardedness and for one thing , there was no Heineccius . 
This made these periods not only a relief to myself , but a particular pleasure to my poor child . 
When I came back about the hour appointed , I would generally find her ready dressed , and glowing with anticipation . 
the hour of the return and there is scarce a field or waterside near Leyden , scarce a street or lane there , where we have not lingered . 
Outside of these , I bade her confine herself entirely to our lodgings this in the fear of her encountering any acquaintance , which would have rendered our position very difficult . 
Indeed , there was scarce anything that more affected me , than thus to kneel down alone with her before God like man and wife . 
One day it was snowing downright hard . 
I had thought it not possible that we should venture forth , and was surprised to find her waiting for me ready dressed . 
I will not be doing without my walk , she cried . 
You are never a good boy , Davie , in the house I will never be caring for you only in the open air . 
I think we two will better turn Egyptian and dwell by the roadside . 
It was the dark night when we came to the house door . 
She pressed my arm upon her bosom . 
Thank you kindly for these same good hours , said she , on a deep note of her voice . 
Doubtless she was more than usually hurt and I know for myself , I found it more than usually difficult to maintain any strangeness . 
Methought , as I read , I could hear my heart strike like an eight day clock . 
Hard as I feigned to study , there was still some of my eyesight that spilled beyond the book upon Catriona . 
Suddenly she called out aloud . 
O , why does not my father come ? she cried , and fell at once into a storm of tears . 
I leaped up , flung Heineccius fairly in the fire , ran to her side , and cast an arm around her sobbing body . 
She put me from her sharply , You do not love your friend , says she . 
I raised her face to mine , I kissed it , and she bowed her brow upon my bosom , clasping me tight . 
I saw in a mere whirl like a man drunken . 
Then I heard her voice sound very small and muffled in my clothes . 
Did you kiss her truly ? she asked . 
There went through me so great a heave of surprise that I was all shook with it . 
Miss Grant ? I cried , all in a disorder . 
Yes , I asked her to kiss me good bye , the which she did . 
Ah , well ! said she , you have kissed me too , at all events . 
At the strangeness and sweetness of that word , I saw where we had fallen rose , and set her on her feet . 
This will never do , said I. This will never , never do . 
O Catrine , Catrine ! Then there came a pause in which I was debarred from any speaking . 
And then , Go away to your bed , said I. Go away to your bed and leave me . 
She turned to obey me like a child , and the next I knew of it , had stopped in the very doorway . 
Good night , Davie ! said she . 
The next moment I had thrust her from the room , shut to the door even with violence , and stood alone . 
The milk was spilt now , the word was out and the truth told . 
I repented , yet could not find it in my heart to blame myself for that great failure . 
It seemed not possible to have resisted the boldness of her innocence or that last temptation of her weeping . 
What was to become of us now ? It seemed we could no longer dwell in the one place . 
But where was I to go ? or where she ? Without either choice or fault of ours , life had conspired to wall us together in that narrow place . 
I had a wild thought of marrying out of hand and the next moment put it from me with revolt . 
Down I sat before the fire , and reflected , and repented , and beat my brains in vain for any means of escape . 
she called her forwardness and in the dead of the night solaced herself with tears . 
Tender and bitter feelings , love and penitence and pity , struggled in my soul it seemed I was under bond to heal that weeping . 
O , try to forgive me ! I cried out , try , try to forgive me . 
Let us forget it all , let us try if we'll no can forget it ! There came no answer , but the sobbing ceased . 
You can make no hand of this , Davie , thinks I. To bed with you like a wise lad , and try if you can sleep . 
To morrow you may see your way . 
I ought to have been glad perhaps without admixture , for there was a sense in which the man came like an answer to prayer . 
I had been saying till my head was weary that Catriona and I must separate , and looking till my head ached for any possible means of separation . 
Here were the means come to me upon two legs , and joy was the hindmost of my thoughts . 
Ah , said he , I have found you , Mr , Balfour . 
I took him by doubtfully . 
It is a remarkable circumstance how our affairs appear to intermingle , he continued . 
He shrugged his shoulders with a very French air . 
But indeed the man is very plausible , says he . 
And now it seems that you have busied yourself handsomely in the matter of my daughter , for whose direction I was remitted to yourself . 
I think , sir , said I , with a very painful air , that it will be necessary we two should have an explanation . 
There is nothing amiss ? he asked . 
My agent , Mr. Sprott For God's sake moderate your voice ! I cried . 
She must not hear till we have had an explanation . 
She is in this place ? cries he . 
That is her chamber door , said I. You are here with her alone ? he asked . 
And who else would I have got to stay with us ? cries I. I will do him the justice to admit that he turned pale . 
This is very unusual , said he . 
This is a very unusual circumstance . 
You are right , we must hold an explanation . 
So saying he passed me by , and I must own the tall old rogue appeared at that moment extraordinary dignified . 
At the same time came in on my mind the recollection of the clothes that I had bought for her and I thought this contrast of poverty and prodigality bore an ill appearance . 
For however this extraordinary interview might end , it must pass if possible without waking Catriona and the one thing needful was that we should sit close and talk low . 
with very much the feelings of a man who has heard the last trumpet . 
And Well , I began , but found myself unable to go further . 
You tell me she is here ? said he again , but now with a spice of impatience that seemed to brace me up . 
She is in this house , said I , and I knew the circumstance would be called unusual . 
But you are to consider how very unusual the whole business was from the beginning . 
Here is a young lady landed on the coast of Europe with two shillings and a penny halfpenny . 
She is directed to yon man Sprott in Helvoet . 
I hear you call him your agent . 
You speak of unusual circumstances , Mr. Drummond , if that be the name you prefer . 
Here was a circumstance , if you like , to which it was barbarity to have exposed her . 
But this is what I cannot understand the least , said James . 
My daughter was placed into the charge of some responsible persons , whose names I have forgot . 
Gebbie was the name , said I and there is no doubt that Mr. Gebbie should have gone ashore with her at Helvoet . 
But he did not , Mr. Drummond and I think you might praise God that I was there to offer in his place . 
I shall have a word to say to Mr. Gebbie before long , said he . 
As for yourself , I think it might have occurred that you were somewhat young for such a post . 
I shall wait until I understand my obligation a little more in the particular , says he . 
I gave her the name and the tenderness due to a sister . 
All this has not gone without expense , but that I scarce need to hint at . 
You are a young man , he began . 
So I hear you tell me , said I , with a good deal of heat . 
You are a very young man , he repeated , or you would have understood the significancy of the step . 
But I will be entrapped into no such attitude , said I. The character of Miss Drummond is far above inquiry , as her father ought to know . 
So is mine , and I am telling you that . 
There are but the two ways of it open . 
The one is to express your thanks to me as one gentleman to another , and to say no more . 
is to pay me , that which I have expended and be done . 
He seemed to soothe me with a hand in the air . 
There , there , said he . 
You go too fast , you go too fast , Mr. Balfour . 
It is a good thing that I have learned to be more patient . 
And I believe you forget that I have yet to see my daughter . 
I began to be a little relieved upon this speech and a change in the man's manner that I spied in him as soon as the name of money fell between us . 
Your hand , Mr. David you have the character that I respect the most you are one of those from whom a gentleman can take a favour and no more words about it . 
I am an old soldier , he went on , looking rather disgusted like around my chamber , and you need not fear I shall prove burthensome . 
I have ate too often at a dyke side , drank of the ditch , and had no roof but the rain . 
I should be telling you , said I , that our breakfasts are sent customarily in about this time of morning . 
Methought his nostrils wagged at this . 
O , an hour says he . 
Half an hour , Mr. David , or say twenty minutes I shall do very well in that . 
Tut tut , says he , that is fair destruction to the stomach , take an old campaigner's word for it . 
Our country spirit at home is perhaps the most entirely wholesome but as that is not come at able , Rhenish or a white wine of Burgundy will be next best . 
I stepped to the door accordingly , and cried through the panels , knocking thereon at the same time Miss Drummond , here is your father come at last . 
CHAPTER XXVI THE THREESOME WHETHER or not I was to be so much blamed , or rather perhaps pitied , I must leave others to judge . 
seems not so great with the ladies . 
Her father had cast doubts upon the innocence of my friendship and these , it was my first business to allay . 
But there is a kind of an excuse for Catriona also . 
At the breakfast , accordingly , it soon appeared we were at cross purposes . 
that I admired her in . 
But this was not for long . 
might have observed the opposition . 
At supper , as at all our meals , it was James More that did the talking . 
No doubt but he talked well if anyone could have believed him . 
But I will speak of him presently more at large . 
The meal at an end , he rose , got his great coat , and looking at me , observed he had affairs abroad . 
This appearance of indifference argued , upon her side , a good deal of anger very near to burst out . 
Can I do anything for YOU , Mr. Drummond ? says I. He stifled a yawn , which again I thought to be duplicity . 
where I hope to fall in with some old companions in arms . 
There was no more to say , and I got my hat and cloak to bear him company . 
And as for you , say he to his daughter , you had best go to your bed . 
I shall be late home , and EARLY TO BED AND EARLY TO RISE , GARS BONNY LASSES HAVE BRIGHT EYES . 
Whereupon he kissed her with a good deal of tenderness , and ushered me before him from the door . 
that it was scarce possible there should be any parting salutation but I observed she did not look at me , and set it down to terror of James More . 
It was some distance to that tavern . 
He talked all the way of matters which did not interest me the smallest , and at the door dismissed me with empty manners . 
Thence I walked to my new lodging , where I had not so much as a chimney to hold me warm , and no society but my own thoughts . 
And in the second place , there was our very irregular situation to be kept in view , and the rather scant measure of satisfaction I had given James More that morning . 
I concluded , on the whole , that delay would not hurt anything , yet I would not delay too long neither and got to my cold bed with a full heart . 
She greeted me on my admission civilly , but withdrew at once to her own room , of which she shut the door . 
I made my disposition , and paid and dismissed the men so that she might hear them go , when I supposed she would at once come forth again to speak to me . 
I waited yet awhile , then knocked upon her door . 
Catriona ! said I. The door was opened so quickly , even before I had the word out , that I thought she must have stood behind it listening . 
She remained there in the interval quite still but she had a look that I cannot put a name on , as of one in a bitter trouble . 
Are we not to have our walk to day either ? so I faltered . 
I am thanking you , said she . 
I will not be caring much to walk , now that my father is come home . 
But I think he has gone out himself and left you here alone , said I. And do you think that was very kindly said ? she asked . 
It was not unkindly meant , I replied . 
I will ever be grateful to my friend that was good to me I will ever be his friend in all that I am able . 
But I will ever be your friend in all that I am able , and if that is not all that . 
if it is not so much . 
Not that you will be caring ! But I would not have you think of me too hard . 
It was true what you said to me , that I was too young to be advised , and I am hoping you will remember I was just a child . 
I would not like to lose your friendship , at all events . 
Miss Drummond , I said , and stuck , and made the same beginning once again , I wish you could see into my heart , I cried . 
You would read there that my respect is undiminished . 
If that were possible , I should say it was increased . 
This is but the result of the mistake we made and had to come and the less said of it now the better . 
And as for a friend , you have one here that would die for you . 
I am thanking you , said she . 
Well , said I , we shall be friends always , that's a certain thing . 
But this is a kind of farewell , too it's a kind of a farewell after all I shall always ken Miss Drummond , but this is a farewell to my Catriona . 
I found no words to excuse myself , but bowed before her very deep , and went my ways out of the house with death in my bosom . 
I think it was about five days that followed without any change . 
I saw her scarce ever but at meals , and then of course in the company of James More . 
Her plea was good she had been placed in an unfair position if she had deceived herself and me , it was no more than was to have been looked for . 
And for another thing she was now very much alone . 
Indeed , I thought myself but an eyesore to the girl , and a reminder of a moment's weakness that she now abhorred to think of . 
There she must sit alone , and think of herself as of a maid who had most unmaidenly proffered her affections and had the same rejected . 
lessons upon human frailty and female delicacy . 
And altogether I suppose there were never two poor fools made themselves more unhappy in a greater misconception . 
As for James , he paid not so much heed to us , or to anything in nature but his pocket , and his belly , and his own prating talk . 
Before twelve hours were gone he had raised a small loan of me before thirty , he had asked for a second and been refused . 
Money and refusal he took with the same kind of high good nature . 
So that a man that had no business with him , and either very little penetration or a furious deal of prejudice , might almost have been taken in . 
as I might to the babbling of a parrot . 
This is one of the melancholy airs of my native land , he would say . 
You may think it strange to see a soldier weep , and indeed it is to make a near friend of you , says he . 
But the notes of this singing are in my blood , and the words come out of my heart . 
Then he would sing again , and translate to me pieces of the song , with a great deal of boggling and much expressed contempt against the English language . 
It says here , he would say , that the sun is gone down , and the battle is at an end , and the brave chiefs are defeated . 
and of rallying talk about Catriona , which it cut me to the quick to read in her very presence . 
This made a welcome diversion for all three of us , nor could any have foreseen the ill consequences that ensued . 
Is that not Alan Breck that was suspected of the Appin accident ? he inquired . 
He did there like a soldier if some that need not be named had done as well , the upshot need not have been so melancholy to remember . 
There were two that did their best that day , and it makes a bond between the pair of us , says he . 
Though , they tell me , the same was indeed not wholly regular . 
Meanwhile , I had opened Miss Grant's , and could not withhold an exclamation . 
She clapped her hands together leaping from her seat . 
The next moment it must have come over both of us at once what little cause of joy was left to either , and we stood opposite , staring on each other sadly . 
But James showed himself a ready hypocrite . 
Troth , sir , said I , turning to him in a kind of anger , I can make no such great faces . 
His death is as blithe news as ever I got . 
It's a good soldier's philosophy , says James . 
'Tis the way of flesh , we must all go , all go . 
And if the gentleman was so far from your favour , why , very well ! But we may at least congratulate you on your accession to your estates . 
Nor can I say that either , I replied , with the same heat . 
Come , come , said he , you are more affected than you let on , or you would never make yourself out so lonely . 
Here are three letters that means three that wish you well and I could name two more , here in this very chamber . 
I have known you not so very long , but Catriona , when we are alone , is never done with the singing of your praises . 
he continued to dwell upon with interest . 
But it was to no purpose he dissembled he had touched the matter with too gross a hand and I knew what to expect . 
Dinner was scarce ate when he plainly discovered his designs . 
He reminded Catriona of an errand , and bid her attend to it . 
I do not see you should be one beyond the hour , he added , and friend David will be good enough to bear me company till you return . 
She made haste to obey him without words . 
I do not know if she understood , I believe not but I was completely satisfied , and sat strengthening my mind for what should follow . 
The door had scarce closed behind her departure , when the man leaned back in his chair and addressed me with a good affectation of easiness . 
Only the one thing betrayed him , and that was his face which suddenly shone all over with fine points of sweat . 
My daughter stands beyond doubt . 
So do you , and I would make that good with my sword against all gainsayers . 
And he wagged his head like a minister in a pulpit . 
To what effect , Mr. Drummond ? said I. I would be obliged to you if you would approach your point . 
Ay , ay , said he , laughing , like your character , indeed ! and what I most admire in it . 
But the point , my worthy fellow , is sometimes in a kittle bit . 
He filled a glass of wine . 
Though between you and me , that are such fast friends , it need not bother us long . 
The point , I need scarcely tell you , is my daughter . 
And the first thing is that I have no thought in my mind of blaming you . 
In the unfortunate circumstances , what could you do else ? 'Deed , and I cannot tell . 
I thank you for that , said I , pretty close upon my guard . 
I am afraid I am dull , said I. What ways are these ? He bent his brows upon me formidably and uncrossed his legs . 
You are pleased to be quite plain at last , said I. And I believe I have been plain from the beginning ! cries he robustiously . 
I am a careful parent , Mr. Balfour but I thank God , a patient and deleeborate man . 
There is many a father , sir , that would have hirsled you at once either to the altar or the field . 
My esteem for your character Mr. Drummond , I interrupted , if you have any esteem for me at all , I will beg of you to moderate your voice . 
It is quite needless to rowt at a gentleman in the same chamber with yourself and lending you his best attention . 
Why , very true , says he , with an immediate change . 
And you must excuse the agitations of a parent . 
I was sure of it , I felt certain of you , David , he cried , and reached out his hand to me . 
I have told you that , upon my side , there is no objection to the marriage , but I have good reason to believe there will be much on the young lady's . 
This is all beside the mark , says he . 
I will engage for her acceptance . 
I think you forget , Mr. Drummond , said I , that , even in dealing with myself , you have been betrayed into two three unpalatable expressions . 
I will have none such employed to the young lady . 
He sat and glowered at me like one in doubt and a good deal of temper . 
So that is to be the way of it , I concluded . 
I will marry Miss Drummond , and that blithely , if she is entirely willing . 
But if there be the least unwillingness , as I have reason to fear marry her will I never . 
Well well , said he , this is a small affair . 
As soon as she returns I will sound her a bit , and hope to reassure you But I cut in again . 
I shall satisfy myself exactly and none else shall anyways meddle you the least of all . 
Upon my word , sir ! he exclaimed , and who are you to be the judge ? The bridegroom , I believe , said I. This is to quibble , he cried . 
You turn your back upon the fact . 
The girl , my daughter , has no choice left to exercise . 
And I ask your pardon , said I , but while this matter lies between her and you and me , that is not so . 
What security have I ! he cried . 
I refuse to regard myself as any way accountable for your neglect , and I will be browbeat by no man living . 
My mind is quite made up , and come what may , I will not depart from it a hair's breadth . 
If she can satisfy me that she is willing to this step , I will then make it and if she cannot , I will not . 
He leaped out of his chair like a man stung . 
And if I refuse ? cries he . 
But I might have spared myself alarms . 
A little while longer he continued to dispute with me , until I hit upon a word that silenced him . 
He gabbled some kind of an excuse . 
But all this is very exhausting to both of our tempers , I added , and I think we would do better to preserve a judicious silence . 
The which we did until the girl returned , and I must suppose would have cut a very ridiculous figure had there been any there to view us . 
CHAPTER XXVIII IN WHICH I AM LEFT ALONE I OPENED the door to Catriona and stopped her on the threshold . 
We took one of our old ways , where we had gone often together , and been more happy than I can tell of in the past . 
I came a half a step behind , so that I could watch her unobserved . 
She avoided even to look at me , only walked before her , like one who had a guess of what was coming . 
I saw I must speak soon before my courage was run out , but where to begin I knew not . 
She promised me that simply . 
Well , said I , this that I have got to say is very difficult , and I know very well I have no right to be saying it . 
After what passed between the two of us last Friday , I have no manner of right . 
But , my dear , it has become merely necessary , and no way by it . 
that it would be better to let them be the way they are . 
In my view , this part of the thing is vastly exagerate , and if I were you I would not wear two thoughts on it . 
Only it's right I should mention the same , because there's no doubt it has some influence on James More . 
Then I think we were none so unhappy when we dwelt together in this town before . 
I think we did pretty well together . 
If you would look back , my dear I will look neither back nor forward , she interrupted . 
He told you to ! she cried . 
It is no sense denying it , you said yourself that there was nothing farther from your thoughts . 
He spoke of it the first , if that is what you mean , I began . 
She was walking ever the faster , and looking fain in front of her but at this she made a little noise in her head , and I thought she would have run . 
Without which , I went on , after what you said last Friday , I would never have been so troublesome as make the offer . 
But when he as good as asked me , what was I to do ? She stopped and turned round upon me . 
Well , it is refused at all events , she cried , and there will be an end of that . 
And she began again to walk forward . 
I suppose I could expect no better , said I , but I think you might try to be a little kind to me for the last end of it . 
I see not why you should be harsh . 
I have loved you very well , Catriona no harm that I should call you so for the last time . 
I have done the best that I could manage , I am trying the same still , and only vexed that I can do no better . 
It is a strange thing to me that you can take any pleasure to be hard to me . 
I am not thinking of you , she said , I am thinking of that man , my father . 
Well , and that way , too ! said I. I can be of use to you that way , too I will have to be . 
It is very needful , my dear , that we should consult about your father for the way this talk has gone , an angry man will be James More . 
It is because I am disgraced ? she asked . 
That is what he is thinking , I replied , but I have told you already to make nought of it . 
It will be all one to me , she cried . 
I prefer to be disgraced ! I did not know very well what to answer , and stood silent . 
I am not thinking of my words , said I. My heart bleeds for you , Miss Drummond . 
Whatever I may say , be sure you have my pity in your difficult position . 
Take my word for it , it will need the two of us to make this matter end in peace . 
There sprang a patch of red in either of her cheeks . 
Was he for fighting you ? said she . 
Well , he was that , said I. She gave a dreadful kind of laugh . 
At all events , it is complete ! she cried . 
And then turning on me . 
My father and I are a fine pair , said she , but I am thanking the good God there will be somebody worse than what we are . 
I am thanking the good God that he has let me see you so . 
There will never be the girl made that will not scorn you . 
I had borne a good deal pretty patiently , but this was over the mark . 
She kept looking at me with a hateful smile . 
The word in your throat and in your father's ! I cried . 
I have dared him this day already in your interest . 
She shook her head at me with that same smile I could have struck her for . 
O , smile away ! I cried . 
I have seen your bonny father smile on the wrong side this day . 
Not that I mean he was afraid , of course , I added hastily , but he preferred the other way of it . 
What is this ? she asked . 
When I offered to draw with him , said I. You offered to draw upon James More ! she cried . 
And I did so , said I , and found him backward enough , or how would we be here ? There is a meaning upon this , said she . 
What is it you are meaning ? He was to make you take me , I replied , and I would not have it . 
I said you should be free , and I must speak with you alone little I supposed it would be such a speaking ! 'AND WHAT IF I REFUSE ? said he . 
I will see that your wishes are respected I will make the same my business , as I have all through . 
But I think you might have that decency as to affect some gratitude . 
'Deed , and I thought you knew me better ! I have not behaved quite well to you , but that was weakness . 
O , this is a dreadful business ! Me and mine , she gave a kind of a wretched cry at the word me and mine are not fit to speak to you . 
What can you be thinking of this miserable girl ? says she . 
O , that I must be going out into the world alone with such a man ! she cried , and seemed to catch herself in with a great effort . 
But trouble yourself no more for that , said she . 
He does not know what kind of nature is in my heart . 
He will pay me dear for this day of it dear , dear , will he pay . 
She turned , and began to go home and I to accompany her . 
I will be going alone , she said . 
It is alone I must be seeing him . 
Some little time I raged about the streets , and told myself I was the worst used lad in Christendom . 
I stopped and laughed at myself at a street corner a minute together , laughing out loud , so that a passenger looked at me , which brought me to myself . 
Well , I thought , I have been a gull and a ninny and a soft Tommy long enough . 
Here is a good lesson to have nothing to do with that accursed sex , that was the ruin of the man in the beginning and will be so to the end . 
God knows I was happy enough before ever I saw her God knows I can be happy enough again when I have seen the last of her . 
That seemed to me the chief affair to see them go . 
I was still angry I still hated her and yet I thought I owed it to myself that she should suffer nothing . 
Catriona was like a wooden doll James More breathed hard , his face was dotted with white spots , and his nose upon one side . 
As soon as I came in , the girl looked at him with a steady , clear , dark look that might have been followed by a blow . 
It was a hint that was more contemptuous than a command , and I was surprised to see James More accept it . 
I will tell you what James More is meaning , said she . 
He means we have come to you , beggar folk , and have not behaved to you very well , and we are ashamed of our ingratitude and ill behaviour . 
For that is what we are , at an events , beggar folk and sorners . 
By your leave , Miss Drummond , said I , I must speak to your father by myself . 
She went into her own room and shut the door , without a word or a look . 
You must excuse her , Mr. Balfour , says James More . 
I am not here to discuss that with you , said I , but to be quit of you . 
And to that end I must talk of your position . 
Now , Mr. Drummond , I have kept the run of your affairs more closely than you bargained for . 
I know you had money of your own when you were borrowing mine . 
I know you have had more since you were here in Leyden , though you concealed it even from your daughter . 
I will stand no more baiting , he broke out . 
I am sick of her and you . 
What kind of a damned trade is this to be a parent ! I have had expressions used to me There he broke off . 
If you would have let me finish , says I , you would have found I spoke for your advantage . 
My dear friend , he cried , I know I might have relied upon the generosity of your character . 
Man ! will you let me speak ? said I. The fact is that I cannot win to find out if you are rich or poor . 
However , I believe in your way you do still care something for your daughter after all and I must just be doing with that ground of confidence , such as it is . 
Our traffic is settled I am now going forth and will return in one half hour , when I expect to find my chambers purged of you . 
She had left behind at her departure all that she had ever had of me . 
Late in the night , in a strict frost , and my teeth chattering , I came again by some portion of my manhood and considered with myself . 
There was a corner cupboard in that chamber there I determined to bestow them . 
The which I did and made it a long business , folding them with very little skill indeed but the more care and sometimes dropping them with my tears . 
It was a kerchief of a very pretty hue , on which I had frequently remarked and once that she had it on , I remembered telling her that she wore my colours . 
There came a glow of hope and like a tide of sweetness in my bosom and the next moment I was plunged back in a fresh despair . 
For there was the corner crumpled in a knot and cast down by itself in another part of the floor . 
But when I argued with myself , I grew more hopeful . 
CHAPTER XXIX WE MEET IN DUNKIRK . 
I had altogether three letters in the time of our separation . 
One was to announce their arrival in the town of Dunkirk in France , from which place James shortly after started alone upon a private mission . 
This was to England and to see Lord Holderness and it has always been a bitter thought that my good money helped to pay the charges of the same . 
But he has need of a long spoon who soups with the de'il , or James More either . 
The fact of our correspondence aroused her suspicions , and he was no sooner gone than she had burst the seal . 
What I received began accordingly in the writing of James More My dear Sir , Your esteemed favour came to hand duly , and I have to acknowledge the inclosure according to agreement . 
It shall be all faithfully expended on my daughter , who is well , and desires to be remembered to her dear friend . 
I find her in rather a melancholy disposition , but trust in the mercy of God to see her re established . 
It was better days with me when I lay with five wounds upon my body on the field of Gladsmuir . 
I have found employment here in the HARAS of a French nobleman , where my experience is valued . 
My dear Sir , Your affectionate , obedient servant , JAMES MACGREGOR DRUMMOND . 
had discussed a good deal the nature of my relations with James More and his daughter . 
I was naturally diffident to give particulars and this disposition was not anyway lessened by the nature of Alan's commentary upon those I gave . 
I cannae make heed nor tail of it , he would say , but it sticks in my mind ye've made a gowk of yourself . 
There's few people that has had more experience than Alan Breck and I can never call to mind to have heard tell of a lassie like this one of yours . 
The way that you tell it , the thing's fair impossible . 
Ye must have made a terrible hash of the business , David . 
There are whiles that I am of the same mind , said I. The strange thing is that ye seem to have a kind of fancy for her too ! said Alan . 
The biggest kind , Alan , said I , and I think I'll take it to my grave with me . 
Well , ye beat me , whatever ! he would conclude . 
I showed him the letter with Catriona's postscript . 
And here again ! he cried . 
But the loss of him is that the man's boss . 
Ye see , Alan , said I , it goes against the grain with me to leave the maid in such poor hands . 
Ye couldnae weel find poorer , he admitted . 
But what are ye to do with it ? It's this way about a man and a woman , ye see , Davie The weemenfolk have got no kind of reason to them . 
Either they like the man , and then a' goes fine or else they just detest him , and ye may spare your breath ye can do naething . 
There's just the two sets of them them that would sell their coats for ye , and them that never look the road ye're on . 
That's a' that there is to women and you seem to be such a gomeral that ye cannae tell the tane frae the tither . 
Well , and I'm afraid that's true for me , said I. And yet there's naething easier ! cried Alan . 
I could easy learn ye the science of the thing but ye seem to me to be born blind , and there's where the deefficulty comes in . 
And can YOU no help me ? I asked , you that are so clever at the trade ? Ye see , David , I wasnae here , said he . 
Would ye so , man Alan ? said I. I would e'en't , says he . 
The third letter came to my hand while we were deep in some such talk and it will be seen how pat it fell to the occasion . 
You will now be enjoying the society of my old comrade Mr. Stewart , he wrote . 
As for you , my dear sir , my daughter and I would be proud to receive our benefactor , whom we regard as a brother and a son . 
The French nobleman has proved a person of the most filthy avarice of character , and I have been necessitate to leave the HARAS . 
I beg at least that Mr. Stewart would come here my business with him opens a very wide door . 
What does the man want with me ? cried Alan , when he had read . 
What he wants with you in clear enough it's siller . 
And he asks you because he thinks I would be less likely to come wanting you . 
Well , I wish that I kent , says Alan . 
Him and me were never onyways pack we used to girn at ither like a pair of pipers . 
'Something for my ear , quo' he ! I'll maybe have something for his hinder end , before we're through with it . 
Dod , I'm thinking it would be a kind of divertisement to gang and see what he'll be after ! Forby that I could see your lassie then . 
It was near dark of a January day when we rode at last into the town of Dunkirk . 
We left our horses at the post , and found a guide to Bazin's Inn , which lay beyond the walls . 
Night was quite fallen , so that we were the last to leave that fortress , and heard the doors of it close behind us as we passed the bridge . 
VOILA L'AUBERGE A BAZIN , says the guide . 
An unco lonely bit , said he , and I thought by his tone he was not wholly pleased . 
I took from my breast that kerchief wanting the corner , and knotted it about my throat . 
I could hear my heart go and Alan patting me on the shoulder with some of his laughable expressions , I could scarce refrain from a sharp word . 
But the time was not long to wait . 
I heard her step pass overhead , and saw her on the stair . 
This she descended very quietly , and greeted me with a pale face and a certain seeming of earnestness , or uneasiness , in her manner that extremely dashed me . 
My father , James More , will be here soon . 
He will be very pleased to see you , she said . 
And then of a sudden her face flamed , her eyes lightened , the speech stopped upon her lips and I made sure she had observed the kerchief . 
It was only for a breath that she was discomposed but methought it was with a new animation that she turned to welcome Alan . 
And you will be his friend , Alan Breck ? she cried . 
Many is the dozen times I will have heard him tell of you and I love you already for all your bravery and goodness . 
I do not know that ever I heard him speak so straight to people's hearts the sound of his voice was like song . 
What ? will he have been describing me ? she cried . 
Little else of it since I ever came out of France ! says he , forby a bit of a speciment one night in Scotland in a shaw of wood by Silvermills . 
But cheer up , my dear ! ye're bonnier than what he said . 
And now there's one thing sure you and me are to be a pair of friends . 
He's no very bonnie , my dear , but he's leal to them he loves . 
I thank you from my heart for your good words , said she . 
I have that honour for a brave , honest man that I cannot find any to be answering with . 
Using travellers' freedom , we spared to wait for James More , and sat down to meat , we threesome . 
If any had seen us there , it must have been supposed that Alan was the old friend and I the stranger . 
that he had not only much experience of life , but in his own way a great deal of natural ability besides . 
changed into the very sickness of hate . 
Of James More it is unnecessary to say much you know the man already , what there was to know of him and I am weary of writing out his lies . 
Enough that he drank a great deal , and told us very little that was to any possible purpose . 
As for the business with Alan , that was to be reserved for the morrow and his private hearing . 
It was the more easy to be put off , because Alan and I were pretty weary with four day's ride , and sat not very late after Catriona . 
We were soon alone in a chamber where we were to make shift with a single bed . 
Alan looked on me with a queer smile . 
Ye muckle ass ! said he . 
What do ye mean by that ? I cried . 
Mean ? What do I mean ! It's extraordinar , David man , say he , that you should be so mortal stupit . 
Again I begged him to speak out . 
Well , it's this of it , said he . 
I told ye there were the two kinds of women them that would sell their shifts for ye , and the others . 
Just you try for yoursel , my bonny man ! But what's that neepkin at your craig ? I told him . 
I thocht it was something thereabout said he . 
Nor would he say another word though I besieged him long with importunities . 
CHAPTER XXX THE LETTER FROM THE SHIP DAYLIGHT showed us how solitary the inn stood . 
It was plainly hard upon the sea , yet out of all view of it , and beset on every side with scabbit hills of sand . 
to see the turning and following of each other of these great sails behind the hillock . 
Scarce any road came by there but a number of footways travelled among the bents in all directions up to Mr. Bazin's door . 
The truth is , he was a man of many trades , not any one of them honest , and the position of his inn was the best of his livelihood . 
I slept little and ill . 
Long ere it was day , I had slipped from beside my bedfellow , and was warming myself at the fire or walking to and fro before the door . 
At times I could hear a creak of the machinery and by half past eight of the day , and I thought this dreary , desert place was like a paradise . 
For all which , as the day drew on and nobody came near , I began to be aware of an uneasiness that I could scarce explain . 
The meal was no sooner over than James seemed to come began to make apologies . 
, and we would please excuse him till about noon . 
Meanwhile he carried his daughter aside to the far end of the room , where he seemed to speak rather earnestly and she to listen with much inclination . 
I am caring less and less about this man James , said Alan . 
There's something no right with the man James , and I shouldnae wonder but what Alan Breck would give an eye to him this day . 
I cannae lee , Alan , I cannae do it naitural , says I , mocking him . 
The more fool you ! says he . 
Then ye'll can tell her that I recommended it that'll set her to the laughing and I wouldnae wonder but what that was the next best . 
And is she so pleased with ye , then , Alan ? I asked . 
She thinks a heap of me , says he . 
And I'm no like you I'm one that can tell . 
That she does she thinks a heap of Alan . 
One after another went , till I was left alone beside the breakfast table James to Dunkirk , Alan dogging him , Catriona up the stairs to her own chamber . 
Upon the whole , the best appeared to me to do like Alan . 
If I was out of view among the sandhills , the fine morning would decoy her forth and once I had her in the open , I could please myself . 
set out by a path that led directly seaward , and by which I followed her . 
The path rose and came at last to the head of a knowe . 
Only a little further on , the sea appeared and two or three ships upon it , pretty as a drawing . 
One of these was extremely close in to be so great a vessel and I was aware of a shock of new suspicion , when I recognised the trim of the SEAHORSE . 
I sat down where the rough grass a good deal covered me , and looked for what should follow . 
Catriona went straight to the boat the officer met her with civilities they had ten words together I saw a letter changing hands and there was Catriona returning . 
At the same time , as if this were all her business on the Continent , the boat shoved off and was headed for the SEAHORSE . 
But I observed the officer to remain behind and disappear among the bents . 
I liked the business little and the more I considered of it , liked it less . 
The next , she raised her face and recognised me seemed to hesitate , and then came on again , but more slowly , and I thought with a changed colour . 
I gave her good morning as she came up , which she returned with a good deal of composure . 
I never sent it for him , said I , but for you , as you know well . 
And you have no right to be sending it to either one of us , she said . 
David , it is not right . 
It is not , it is all wrong , said I , and I pray God he will help this dull fellow to make it better . 
Catriona , this is no kind of life for you to lead and I ask your pardon for the word , but yon man is no fit father to take care of you . 
Do not be speaking of him , even ! was her cry . 
And I need speak of him no more it is not of him that I am thinking , O , be sure of that ! says I. I think of the one thing . 
I have been alone now this long time in Leyden and when I was by way of at my studies , still I was thinking of that . 
Next Alan came , and I went among soldier men to their big dinners and still I had the same thought . 
And it was the same before , when I had her there beside me . 
Catriona , do you see this napkin at my throat ! You cut a corner from it once and then cast it from you . 
They're YOUR colours now I wear them in my heart . 
My dear , I cannot be wanting you . 
O , try to put up with me ! I stepped before her so as to intercept her walking on . 
Try to put up with me , I was saying , try and bear me with a little . 
Still she had never the word , and a fear began to rise in me like a fear of death . 
Catriona , I cried , gazing on her hard , is it a mistake again ? Am I quite lost ? She raised her face to me , breathless . 
Do you want me , Davie , truly ? said she , and I scarce could hear her say it . 
I do that , said I. O , sure you know it I do that . 
I have nothing left to give or to keep back , said she . 
All thought was wholly beaten from my mind by the vehemency of my discomposure . 
I knew not where I was . 
I had forgot why I was happy only I knew she stooped , and I felt her cherish me to her face and bosom , and heard her words out of a whirl . 
I have never seen the place that looked so pretty as those bents by Dunkirk and the windmill sails , as they bobbed over the knowe , were like a tune of music . 
I know not how much longer we might have continued to forget all else besides ourselves , had I not chanced upon a reference to her father , which brought us to reality . 
There came a sudden whiteness in her face , she plucked her hands from mine . 
Davie , take me away from him ! she cried . 
There's something wrong he's not true . 
There will be something wrong I have a dreadful terror here at my heart . 
What will he be wanting at all events with that King's ship ? What will this word be saying ? And she held the letter forth . 
My mind misgives me , it will be some ill to Alan . 
Open it , Davie open it and see . 
I took it , and looked at it , and shook my head . 
No , said I , it goes against me , I cannot open a man's letter . 
Not to save your friend ? she cried . 
I cannae tell , said I. I think not . 
If I was only sure ! And you have but to break the seal ! said she . 
I know it , said I , but the thing goes against me . 
Give it here , said she , and I will open it myself . 
Nor you neither , said I. You least of all . 
It concerns your father , and his honour , dear , which we are both misdoubting . 
No question but the place is dangerous like , and the English ship being here , and your father having word from it , and yon officer that stayed ashore . 
He would not be alone either there must be more along with him I daresay we are spied upon this minute . 
Ay , no doubt , the letter should be opened but somehow , not by you nor me . 
There , said I , there is the man that has the best right to open it or not , as he thinks fit . 
With which I called upon his name , and we both stood up to be a mark for him . 
If it is so if it be more disgrace will you can bear it ? she asked , looking upon me with a burning eye . 
The blood rose in her face she came close up and pressed upon me , holding my hand and it was so that we awaited Alan . 
He came with one of his queer smiles . 
What was I telling ye , David ? says he . 
There is a time for all things , Alan , said I , and this time is serious . 
How have you sped ? You can speak out plain before this friend of ours . 
I have been upon a fool's errand , said he . 
I doubt we have done better than you , then , said I and , at least , here is a great deal of matter that you must judge of . 
Do you see that ? I went on , pointing to the ship . 
That is the SEAHORSE , Captain Palliser . 
I should ken her , too , says Alan . 
I had fyke enough with her when she was stationed in the Forth . 
But what ails the man to come so close ? I will tell you why he came there first , said I. It was to bring this letter to James More . 
A letter to James More ? said he . 
The same , said I. Well , and I can tell ye more than that , said Alan . 
Alan ! cried I , you slept all night , and I am here to prove it . 
Ay , but I would never trust Alan whether he was asleep or waking ! says he . 
But the business looks bad . 
It is my wish , said Catriona . 
He opened it , glanced it through , and flung his hand in the air . 
The stinking brock ! says he , and crammed the paper in his pocket . 
Here , let's get our things together . 
This place is fair death to me . 
And he began to walk towards the inn . 
It was Catriona that spoke the first . 
He has sold you ? she asked . 
Sold me , my dear , said Alan . 
But thanks to you and Davie , I'll can jink him yet . 
Just let me win upon my horse , he added . 
Catriona must come with us , said I. She can have no more traffic with that man . 
She and I are to be married . 
At which she pressed my hand to her side . 
Are ye there with it ? says Alan , looking back . 
The best day's work that ever either of you did yet ! And I'm bound to say , my dawtie , ye make a real , bonny couple . 
The way that he was following brought us close in by the windmill , where I was aware of a man in seaman's trousers , who seemed to be spying from behind it . 
Only , of course , we took him in the rear . 
See , Alan ! Wheesht ! said , he , this is my affairs . 
The man was , no doubt , a little deafened by the clattering of the mill , and we got up close before he noticed . 
Then he turned , and we saw he was a big fellow with a mahogany face . 
I think , sir , says Alan , that you speak the English ? NON , MONSIEUR , says he , with an incredible bad accent . 
NON , MONSIEUR , cries Alan , mocking him . 
Then he stood , with a savage smile , and watched him scramble to his feet and scamper off into the sand hills . 
But it's high time I was clear of these empty bents ! said Alan and continued his way at top speed , and we still following , to the backdoor of Bazin's inn . 
It chanced that as we entered by the one door we came face to face with James More entering by the other . 
Here ! said I to Catriona , quick ! upstairs with you and make your packets this is no fit scene for you . 
In the meanwhile James and Alan had met in the midst of the long room . 
She passed them close by to reach the stairs and after she was some way up I saw her turn and glance at them again , though without pausing . 
Indeed , they were worth looking at . 
Alan's situation in that solitary place , and his enemies about him , might have daunted Caesar . 
It made no change in him and it was in his old spirit of mockery and daffing that he began the interview . 
A braw good day to ye again , Mr. Drummond , said he . 
I'm none so sure of that , said Alan . 
It sticks in my mind it's either now or never for the fact is me and Mr. Balfour here have gotten a line , and we're thinking of the road . 
I saw a little surprise in James's eye but he held himself stoutly . 
I have but the one word to say to cure you of that , said he , and that is the name of my business . 
Say it then , says Alan . 
Hout ! wha minds for Davie ? It is a matter that would make us both rich men , said James . 
Do you tell me that ? cries Alan . 
I do , sir , said James . 
The plain fact is that it is Cluny's Treasure . 
Have ye got word of it ? I ken the place , Mr. Stewart , and can take you there , said James . 
This crowns all ! says Alan . 
Well , and I'm glad I came to Dunkirk . 
And so this was your business , was it ? Halvers , I'm thinking ? That is the business , sir , said James . 
Or the lad that I have just kicked the bottom of behind yon windmill ? pursued Alan . 
Hut , man ! have done with your lees ! I have Palliser's letter here in my pouch . 
You're by with it , James More . 
You can never show your face again with dacent folk . 
James was taken all aback with it . 
He stood a second , motionless and white , then swelled with the living anger . 
Do you talk to me , you bastard ? he roared out . 
Ye glee'd swine ! cried Alan , and hit him a sounding buffet on the mouth , and the next wink of time their blades clashed together . 
At the first sound of the bare steel I instinctively leaped back from the collision . 
Keep back , Davie ! Are ye daft ! Damn ye , keep back ! roared Alan . 
Your blood be on your ain heid then ! I beat their blades down twice . 
I was knocked reeling against the wall I was back again betwixt them . 
They took no heed of me , thrusting at each other like two furies . 
In the same moment the point of my sword encountered some thing yielding . 
It came back to me reddened . 
I saw the blood flow on the girl's kerchief , and stood sick . 
Will you be killing him before my eyes , and me his daughter after all ! she cried . 
My dear , I have done with him , said Alan , and went , and sat on a table , with his arms crossed and the sword naked in his hand . 
Awhile she stood before the man , panting , with big eyes , then swung suddenly about and faced him . 
Begone ! was her word , take your shame out of my sight leave me with clean folk . 
The two stood facing , she with the red stain on her kerchief , he white as a rag . 
I knew him well enough I knew it must have pierced him in the quick place of his soul but he betook himself to a bravado air . 
James More , says Alan , this lady daughter of yours is to marry my friend Davie , upon the which account I let you pack with a hale carcase . 
But take you my advice of it and get that carcase out of harm's way or ower late . 
Little as you suppose it , there are leemits to my temper . 
Be damned , sir , but my money's there ! said James . 
I'm vexed about that , too , says Alan , with his funny face , but now , ye see , it's mines . 
And then with more gravity , Be you advised , James More , you leave this house . 
bade us farewell in a series . 
With which he was gone . 
At the same time a spell was lifted from me . 
Catriona , I cried , it was me it was my sword . 
O , are you much hurt ? I know it , Davie , I am loving you for the pain of it it was done defending that bad man , my father . 
See ! she said , and showed me a bleeding scratch , see , you have made a man of me now . 
I will carry a wound like an old soldier . 
Joy that she should be so little hurt , and the love of her brave nature , supported me . 
I embraced her , I kissed the wound . 
By all accounts , he was a very fine man , and he may weel be proud of you . 
If ever I was to get married , it's the marrow of you I would be seeking for a mother to my sons . 
And I bear's a king's name and speak the truth . 
He said it with a serious heat of admiration that was honey to the girl , and through her , to me . 
It seemed to wipe us clean of all James More's disgraces . 
And the next moment he was just himself again . 
The word recalled us to some wisdom . 
He had whipped under a table when the swords were drawn , but now he was as bold as a lion . 
There was his bill to be settled , there was a chair broken , Alan had sat among his dinner things , James More had fled . 
Here , I cried , pay yourself , and flung him down some Lewie d'ors for I thought it was no time to be accounting . 
He sprang upon that money , and we passed him by , and ran forth into the open . 
Alan gave but one glance , and laid himself down to run . 
As soon as we appeared , they cast off all disguise upon the other side and the seamen pursued us with shouts and view hullohs . 
We had a start of some two hundred yards , and they were but bandy legged tarpaulins after all , that could not hope to better us at such an exercise . 
I suppose they were armed , but did not care to use their pistols on French ground . 
And as soon as I perceived that we not only held our advantage but drew a little away , I began to feel quite easy of the issue . 
He stopped running at once and mopping at his brow , They're a real bonny folk , the French nation , says he . 
CONCLUSION NO sooner were we safe within the walls of Dunkirk than we held a very necessary council of war on our position . 
But we made it out at last , reached Paris early of a Sabbath morning , and made all speed , under Alan's guidance , to find Bohaldie . 
We asked of the news of James More . 
Poor James ! said he , and shook his head and smiled , so that I thought he knew further than he meant to tell . 
Then we showed him Palliser's letter , and he drew a long face at that . 
Poor James ! said he again . 
Well , there are worse folk than James More , too . 
But this is dreadful bad . 
Tut , tut , he must have forgot himself entirely ! This is a most undesirable letter . 
But , for all that , gentlemen , I cannot see what we would want to make it public for . 
It's an ill bird that fouls his own nest , and we are all Scots folk and all Hieland . 
I thought I saw by my wife's face what way her inclination pointed . 
And let us go see him , then , said I. If it is your pleasure , said Catriona . 
He lay propped in a pallet . 
The first look of him I saw he was upon his last business and , doubtless , this was a strange place for him to die in . 
But even now I find I can scarce dwell upon his end with patience . 
Doubtless , Bohaldie had prepared him he seemed to know we were married , complimented us on the event , and gave us a benediction like a patriarch . 
I have been never understood , said he . 
I could not trace even a hint of shame in any part of his behaviour but he was great upon forgiveness it seemed always fresh to him . 
I had him buried but what to put upon his tomb was quite beyond me , till at last I considered the date would look best alone . 
I thought it wiser to resign all thoughts of Leyden , where we had appeared once as brother and sister , and it would certainly look strange to return in a new character . 
Scotland would be doing for us and thither , after I had recovered that which I had left behind , we sailed in a Low Country ship . 
, and Mr. Alan Balfour younger of Shaws , here is the story brought fairly to an end . 
that you have seen and spoken with . 
Alison Hastie in Limekilns was the lass that rocked your cradle when you were too small to know of it , and walked abroad with you in the policy when you were bigger . 
As for Davie and Catriona , I shall watch you pretty close in the next days , and see if you are so bold as to be laughing at papa and mamma . 
For the life of man upon this world of ours is a funny business . 
