The palace court was built of rare marbles , exquisitely polished . 
And then Glinda smiled , glad to see her maids mixing play with work . 
Presently among the fields an object was seen moving , threading the broad path that led to the castle gate . 
The maids of honor had risen and stood with bowed heads to greet the royal Ozma , while Glinda came forward with outstretched arms to greet her guests . 
We've just come on a visit , you know , said Ozma . 
And we came so fast , added Dorothy , that our hair is blown all fuzzy , for the Sawhorse makes a wind of his own . 
Usually it's a day's journey from the Em'rald City , but I don't s'pose we were two hours on the way . 
You are most welcome , said Glinda the Sorceress , and led them through the court to her magnificent reception hall . 
This Book is one of the greatest treasures in Oz , and the Sorceress prizes it more highly than any of her magical possessions . 
And the records are always truthful , although sometimes they do not give as many details as one could wish . 
But then , lots of things happen , and so the records have to be brief or even Glinda's Great Book could not hold them all . 
Glinda looked at the records several times each day , and Dorothy , whenever she visited the Sorceress , loved to look in the Book and see what was happening everywhere . 
Not much was recorded about the Land of Oz , which is usually peaceful and uneventful , but today Dorothy found something which interested her . 
Indeed , the printed letters were appearing on the page even while she looked . 
This is funny ! she exclaimed . 
No one I know has ever seen them or heard of them . 
The Skeezer Country is 'way at the upper edge of the Gillikin Country , with the sandy , impassable desert on one side and the mountains of Oogaboo on another side . 
That is a part of the Land of Oz of which I know very little . 
I guess no one else knows much about it either , unless it's the Skeezers themselves , remarked Dorothy . 
But the Book says 'The Skeezers of Oz have declared war on the Flatheads of Oz , and there is likely to be fighting and much trouble as the result . 
Is that all the Book says ? asked Ozma . 
Every word , said Dorothy , and Ozma and Glinda both looked at the Record and seemed surprised and perplexed . 
Tell me , Glinda , said Ozma , who are the Flatheads ? I cannot , your Majesty , confessed the Sorceress . 
Until now I never have heard of them , nor have I ever heard the Skeezers mentioned . 
However , if you so desire , I can learn through my arts of sorcery something of the Skeezers and the Flatheads . 
I wish you would , answered Ozma seriously . 
Very well , your Majesty , said the Sorceress , I will try to get some information to guide you . 
Please excuse me for a time , while I retire to my Room of Magic and Sorcery . 
May I go with you ? asked Dorothy , eagerly . 
No , Princess , was the reply . 
It would spoil the charm to have anyone present . 
So Glinda locked herself in her own Room of Magic and Dorothy and Ozma waited patiently for her to come out again . 
In about an hour Glinda appeared , looking grave and thoughtful . 
Your Majesty , she said to Ozma , the Skeezers live on a Magic Isle in a great lake . 
For that reason because the Skeezers deal in magic I can learn little about them . 
Why , I didn't know there was a lake in that part of Oz , exclaimed Ozma . 
The map shows a river running through the Skeezer Country , but no lake . 
That is because the person who made the map never had visited that part of the country , explained the Sorceress . 
The lake surely is there , and in the lake is an island a Magic Isle and on that island live the people called the Skeezers . 
What are they like ? inquired the Ruler of Oz . 
My magic cannot tell me that , confessed Glinda , for the magic of the Skeezers prevents anyone outside of their domain knowing anything about them . 
The Flatheads must know , if they're going to fight the Skeezers , suggested Dorothy Perhaps so , Glinda replied , but I can get little information concerning the Flatheads , either . 
They are people who inhabit a mountain just south of the Lake of the Skeezers . 
The mountain has steep sides and a broad , hollow top , like a basin , and in this basin the Flatheads have their dwellings . 
They also are magic workers and usually keep to themselves and allow no one from outside to visit them . 
I have learned that the Flatheads number about one hundred people men , women and children while the Skeezers number just one hundred and one . 
What did they quarrel about , and why do they wish to fight one another ? was Ozma's next question . 
I cannot tell your Majesty that , said Glinda . 
Those who do not know me or my laws , she said , cannot be expected to obey my laws . 
If we know nothing of the Skeezers or the Flatheads , it is likely that they know nothing of us . 
But they ought to know , Ozma , and we ought to know . 
Who's going to tell them , and how are we going to make them behave ? That , returned Ozma , is what I am now considering . 
What would you advise , Glinda ? The Sorceress took a little time to consider this question , before she made reply . 
Then she said Had you not learned of the existence of the Flatheads and the Skeezers , through my Book of Records , you would never have worried about them or their quarrels . 
So , if you pay no attention to these peoples , you may never hear of them again . 
But that wouldn't be right , declared Ozma . 
That's a fact , Ozma , commented Dorothy . 
You've got to go up to the Gillikin Country and make these people behave themselves and make up their quarrels . 
But how are you going to do it ? That is what is puzzling me also , your Majesty , said the Sorceress . 
It may be dangerous for you to go into those strange countries , where the people are possibly fierce and warlike . 
I am not afraid , said Ozma , with a smile . 
'Tisn't a question of being 'fraid , argued Dorothy . 
Of course we know you're a fairy , and can't be killed or hurt , and we know you've a lot of magic of your own to help you . 
Perhaps I shall be in no danger at all , returned Ozma , with a little laugh . 
You mustn't imagine danger , Dorothy , for one should only imagine nice things , and we do not know that the Skeezers and Flatheads are wicked people or my enemies . 
Perhaps they would be good and listen to reason . 
Dorothy is right , your Majesty , asserted the Sorceress . 
It is true we know nothing of these faraway subjects , except that they intend to fight one another , and have a certain amount of magic power at their command . 
Such folks do not like to submit to interference and they are more likely to resent your coming among them than to receive you kindly and graciously , as is your due . 
If you had an army to take with you , added Dorothy , it wouldn't be so bad but there isn't such a thing as an army in all Oz . 
I have one soldier , said Ozma . 
Yes , the soldier with the green whiskers but he's dreadful 'fraid of his gun and never loads it . 
I'm sure he'd run rather than fight . 
And one soldier , even if he were brave , couldn't do much against two hundred and one Flatheads and Skeezers . 
What then , my friends , would you suggest ? inquired Ozma . 
Let the Wizard tell them they will be punished if they refuse to obey the commands of the Princess of all the Land of Oz . 
Ozma shook her head , to indicate that the advice was not to her satisfaction . 
If they refuse , what then ? she asked . 
I should be obliged to carry out my threat and punish them , and that would be an unpleasant and difficult thing to do . 
I am sure it would be better for me to go peacefully , without an army and armed only with my authority as Ruler , and plead with them to obey me . 
Then , if they prove obstinate I could resort to other means to win their obedience . 
It's a ticklish thing , anyhow you look at it , sighed Dorothy . 
I'm sorry now that I noticed the Record in the Great Book . 
But can't you realize , my dear , that I must do my duty , now that I am aware of this trouble ? asked Ozma . 
I am fully determined to go at once to the Magic Isle of the Skeezers and to the enchanted mountain of the Flatheads , and prevent war and strife between their inhabitants . 
The only question to decide is whether it is better for me to go alone , or to assemble a party of my friends and loyal supporters to accompany me . 
If you go I want to go , too , declared Dorothy . 
There are plenty of friends who would like to go with you , said the Sorceress , but none of them would afford your Majesty any protection in case you were in danger . 
You are yourself the most powerful fairy in Oz , although both I and the Wizard have more varied arts of magic at our command . 
However , you have one art that no other in all the world can equal the art of winning hearts and making people love to bow to your gracious presence . 
For that reason I believe you can accomplish more good alone than with a large number of subjects in your train . 
I believe that also , agreed the Princess . 
I shall be quite able to take care of myself , you know , but might not be able to protect others so well . 
I do not look for opposition , however . 
I shall speak to these people in kindly words and settle their dispute whatever it may be in a just manner . 
Aren't you going to take me ? pleaded Dorothy . 
You'll need some companion , Ozma . 
The Princess smiled upon her little friend . 
I see no reason why you should not accompany me , was her reply . 
Two girls are not very warlike and they will not suspect us of being on any errand but a kindly and peaceful one . 
But , in order to prevent war and strife between these angry peoples , we must go to them at once . 
Let us return immediately to the Emerald City and prepare to start on our journey early tomorrow morning . 
Glinda was not quite satisfied with this plan , but could not think of any better way to meet the problem . 
She knew that Ozma , with all her gentleness and sweet disposition , was accustomed to abide by any decision she had made and could not easily be turned from her purpose . 
Moreover she could see no great danger to the fairy Ruler of Oz in the undertaking , even though the unknown people she was to visit proved obstinate . 
But Dorothy was not a fairy she was a little girl who had come from Kansas to live in the Land of Oz . 
Dorothy might encounter dangers that to Ozma would be as nothing but to an Earth child would be very serious . 
But Dorothy was a mortal , nevertheless , and might possibly be destroyed , or hidden where none of her friends could ever find her . 
These facts Glinda was considering while she paced with stately tread her marble hall . 
Finally the good Sorceress paused and drew a ring from her finger , handing it to Dorothy . 
Wear this ring constantly until your return , she said to the girl . 
If serious danger threatens you , turn the ring around on your finger once to the right and another turn to the left . 
That will ring the alarm bell in my palace and I will at once come to your rescue . 
But do not use the ring unless you are actually in danger of destruction . 
While you remain with Princess Ozma I believe she will be able to protect you from all lesser ills . 
Thank you , Glinda , responded Dorothy gratefully , as she placed the ring on her finger . 
Once a Munchkin farmer had stuffed an old suit of clothes with straw and put stuffed boots on the feet and used a pair of stuffed cotton gloves for hands . 
The head of the Scarecrow was a stuffed sack fastened to the body , with eyes , nose , mouth and ears painted on the sack . 
When a hat had been put on the head , the thing was a good imitation of a man . 
The farmer placed the Scarecrow on a pole in his cornfield and it came to life in a curious manner . 
Dorothy , who was passing by the field , was hailed by the live Scarecrow and lifted him off his pole . 
He then went with her to the Emerald City , where the Wizard of Oz gave him some excellent brains , and the Scarecrow soon became an important personage . 
Ozma had warned Dorothy to keep their journey a secret and say nothing to anyone about the Skeezers and Flatheads until their return , and Dorothy promised to obey . 
Indeed , only Glinda the Sorceress knew they were going , until after they had gone , and even the Sorceress didn't know what their errand might be . 
Princess Ozma took the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon , although she was not sure there was a wagon road all the way to the Lake of the Skeezers . 
As the Emerald City was exactly in the center of Oz , it was no small journey from there to the Skeezers . 
Also those faraway sections are little known to the Oz people , except in the south , where Glinda lives and where Dorothy has often wandered on trips of exploration . 
I am really sorry , said Ozma to Dorothy , as they rode away in the Red Wagon , not to know more about the wonderful Land I rule . 
Well , replied Dorothy , we'll prob'bly find out a lot on this trip , and we'll learn all about the Skeezers and Flatheads , anyhow . 
Dorothy wore around her waist the Nome King's Magic Belt , which protected her from harm , and the Magic Ring which Glinda had given her was on her finger . 
The Silver Wand was Ozma's one weapon of offense and defense and by its use she could accomplish many things . 
At such times they crossed the fields , avoiding groups of trees and fording the streams and rivulets whenever they came to them . 
But finally they reached a broad hillside closely covered with scrubby brush , through which the wagon could not pass . 
It will be difficult even for you and me to get through without tearing our dresses , said Ozma , so we must leave the Sawhorse and the Wagon here until our return . 
That's all right , Dorothy replied , I'm tired riding , anyhow . 
The scrubby brush was almost like a grove of small trees , for it reached as high as the heads of the two girls , neither of whom was very tall . 
It doesn't look very strong , though , said Dorothy . 
I wonder if we couldn't break through . 
She tried but found the web stronger than it seemed . 
All her efforts could not break a single thread . 
We must go back , I think , and try to get around this peculiar web , Ozma decided . 
So they turned to the right and , following the web found that it seemed to spread in a regular circle . 
On and on they went until finally Ozma said they had returned to the exact spot from which they had started . 
Here is a handkerchief you dropped when we were here before , she said to Dorothy . 
In that case , they must have built the web behind us , after we walked into the trap , exclaimed the little girl . 
True , agreed Ozma , an enemy has tried to imprison us . 
And they did it , too , said Dorothy . 
I wonder who it was . 
It's a spider web , I'm quite sure , returned Ozma , but it must be the work of enormous spiders . 
Quite right ! cried a voice behind them . 
Turning quickly around they beheld a huge purple spider sitting not two yards away and regarding them with its small bright eyes . 
Dorothy did not like the looks of these spiders at all . 
They had big heads , sharp claws , small eyes and fuzzy hair all over their purple bodies . 
They look wicked , she whispered to Ozma . 
What shall we do ? Ozma gazed upon the spiders with a serious face . 
What is your object in making us prisoners ? she inquired . 
We need someone to keep house for us , answered the Spider King . 
There is sweeping and dusting to be done , and polishing and washing of dishes , and that is work my people dislike to do . 
So we decided that if any strangers came our way we would capture them and make them our servants . 
I am Princess Ozma , Ruler of all Oz , said the girl with dignity . 
Well , I am King of all Spiders , was the reply , and that makes me your master . 
Come with me to my palace and I will instruct you in your work . 
I won't , said Dorothy indignantly . 
We won't have anything to do with you . 
But the girl was wearing her Magic Belt and was not harmed . 
The Spider King could not even touch her . 
He turned swiftly and made a dash at Ozma , but she held her Magic Wand over his head and the monster recoiled as if it had been struck . 
You'd better let us go , Dorothy advised him , for you see you can't hurt us . 
So I see , returned the Spider King angrily . 
Your magic is greater than mine . 
But I'll not help you to escape . 
If you can break the magic web my people have woven you may go if not you must stay here and starve . 
With that the Spider King uttered a peculiar whistle and all the spiders disappeared . 
There is more magic in my fairyland than I dreamed of , remarked the beautiful Ozma , with a sigh of regret . 
It seems that my laws have not been obeyed , for even these monstrous spiders defy me by means of Magic . 
Never mind that now , said Dorothy let's see what we can do to get out of this trap . 
They now examined the web with great care and were amazed at its strength . 
Although finer than the finest silken hairs , it resisted all their efforts to work through , even though both girls threw all their weight against it . 
We must find some instrument which will cut the threads of the web , said Ozma , finally . 
Let us look about for such a tool . 
So they wandered among the bushes and finally came to a shallow pool of water , formed by a small bubbling spring . 
Dorothy stooped to get a drink and discovered in the water a green crab , about as big as her hand . 
The crab had two big , sharp claws , and as soon as Dorothy saw them she had an idea that those claws could save them . 
Come out of the water , she called to the crab I want to talk to you . 
Rather lazily the crab rose to the surface and caught hold of a bit of rock . 
You can do that , can't you ? I suppose so , replied the crab . 
But if I do what will you give me ? What do you wish ? Ozma inquired . 
I wish to be white , instead of green , said the crab . 
Green crabs are very common , and white ones are rare besides the purple spiders , which infest this hillside , are afraid of white crabs . 
Could you make me white if I should agree to cut the web for you ? Yes , said Ozma , I can do that easily . 
And , so you may know I am speaking the truth , I will change your color now . 
She waved her silver wand over the pool and the crab instantly became snow white all except his eyes , which remained black . 
He moved so very slowly that Dorothy cried out impatiently Dear me , this will never do ! Caching the crab in her hands she ran with him to the web . 
Nothing in the valley was visible except these rolling waves of mist , but beyond , on the other side , rose a grassy hill that appeared quite beautiful . 
If we wish to get on , I think we must venture into the mist . 
But we can't see where we're going , or what we're stepping on , protested Dorothy . 
There may be dreadful things mixed up in that fog , an' I'm scared just to think of wading into it . 
Even Ozma seemed to hesitate . 
She was silent and thoughtful for a little while , looking at the rolling drifts that were so gray and forbidding . 
Finally she said I believe this is a Mist Valley , where these moist clouds always remain , for even the sunshine above does not drive them away . 
Therefore the Mist Maids must live here , and they are fairies and should answer my call . 
She placed her two hands before her mouth , forming a hollow with them , and uttered a clear , thrilling , bird like cry . 
It floated far out over the mist waves and presently was answered by a similar sound , as of a far off echo . 
She had seen many strange things since coming to this fairy country , but here was a new experience . 
Presently out from the billows rose beautiful forms , clothed in fleecy , trailing garments of gray that could scarcely be distinguished from the mist . 
Their hair was mist color , too only their gleaming arms and sweet , pallid faces proved they were living , intelligent creatures answering the call of a sister fairy . 
Like sea nymphs they rested on the bosom of the clouds , their eyes turned questioningly upon the two girls who stood upon the bank . 
One came quite near and to her Ozma said Will you please take us to the opposite hillside ? We are afraid to venture into the mist . 
I am Princess Ozma of Oz , and this is my friend Dorothy , a Princess of Oz . 
The Mist Maids came nearer , holding out their arms . 
Without hesitation Ozma advanced and allowed them to embrace her and Dorothy plucked up courage to follow . 
Very gently the Mist Maids held them . 
Thank you ! said Ozma gratefully , and Dorothy also added her thanks for the service . 
The Mist Maids made no answer , but they smiled and waved their hands in good bye as again they floated out into the mist and disappeared from view . 
Chapter Four The Magic Tent Well , said Dorothy with a laugh , that was easier than I expected . 
It's worth while , sometimes , to be a real fairy . 
But I wouldn't like to be that kind , and live in a dreadful fog all the time . 
They now climbed the bank and found before them a delightful plain that spread for miles in all directions . 
Fragrant wild flowers were scattered throughout the grass there were bushes bearing lovely blossoms and luscious fruits now and then a group of stately trees added to the beauty of the landscape . 
But there were no dwellings or signs of life . 
The sides of this hill were straight up and down it was oblong in shape and the top seemed flat and level . 
Oh , ho ! cried Dorothy I'll bet that's the mountain Glinda told us of , where the Flatheads live . 
If it is , replied Ozma , the Lake of the Skeezers must be just beyond the line of palm trees . 
Can you walk that far , Dorothy ? Of course , in time , was the prompt answer . 
It was a longer tramp than they suspected , however , and night overtook them before they could reach the flat mountain . 
So Ozma proposed they camp for the night and Dorothy was quite ready to approve . 
She didn't like to admit to her friend she was tired , but she told herself that her legs had prickers in 'em , meaning they had begun to ache . 
The fairy Ruler of Oz only needed her silver wand tipped at one end with a great sparkling emerald to provide through its magic all that they might need . 
The canvas was striped purple and white , and from the center pole fluttered the royal banner of Oz . 
Come , dear , said Ozma , taking Dorothy's hand , I am hungry and I'm sure you must be also so let us go in and have our feast . 
Also , on either side of the tent were beds , with satin sheets , warm blankets and pillows filled with swansdown . 
There were chairs , too , and tall lamps that lighted the interior of the tent with a soft , rosy glow . 
Dorothy , resting herself at her fairy friend's command , and eating her dinner with unusual enjoyment , thought of the wonders of magic . 
But Ozma , looking into her friend's face and reading those thoughts , gave a laugh and said No , no , Dorothy , that wouldn't do at all . 
Instead of happiness your plan would bring weariness to the world . 
If every one could wave a wand and have his wants fulfilled there would be little to wish for . 
There would be nothing to do you see , and no interest in life and in our fellow creatures . 
That is all that makes life worth our while to do good deeds and to help those less fortunate than ourselves . 
Well , you're a fairy , Ozma . 
Aren't you happy ? asked Dorothy Yes , dear , because I can use my fairy powers to make others happy . 
Had I no kingdom to rule , and no subjects to look after , I would be miserable . 
Even the little Wizard of Oz can do some things I am unable to accomplish , while I can accomplish things unknown to the Wizard . 
This is to explain that I'm not all powerful , by any means . 
My magic is simply fairy magic , and not sorcery or wizardry . 
All the same , said Dorothy , I'm mighty glad you could make this tent appear , with our dinners and beds all ready for us . 
Yes , it is indeed wonderful , she agreed . 
Not all fairies know that sort of magic , but some fairies can do magic that fills me with astonishment . 
I think that is what makes us modest and unassuming the fact that our magic arts are divided , some being given each of us . 
I'm glad I don't know everything , Dorothy , and that there still are things in both nature and in wit for me to marvel at . 
Dorothy couldn't quite understand this , so she said nothing more on the subject and presently had a new reason to marvel . 
For when they had quite finished their meal table and contents disappeared in a flash . 
No dishes to wash , Ozma ! she said with a laugh . 
I guess you'd make a lot of folks happy if you could teach 'em just that one trick . 
For an hour Ozma told stories , and talked with Dorothy about various people in whom they were interested . 
And then it was bedtime , and they undressed and crept into their soft beds and fell asleep almost as soon as their heads touched their pillows . 
They finished dressing only to find a warm , delicious breakfast awaiting them , and having eaten they left the tent and started toward the mountain which was their first goal . 
After going a little way Dorothy looked back and found that the fairy tent had entirely disappeared . 
She was not surprised , for she knew this would happen . 
Can't your magic give us a horse an' wagon , or an automobile ? inquired Dorothy . 
No , dear I'm sorry that such magic is beyond my power , confessed her fairy friend . 
Perhaps Glinda could , said Dorothy thoughtfully . 
Glinda has a stork chariot that carries her through the air , said Ozma , but even our great Sorceress cannot conjure up other modes of travel . 
Don't forget what I told you last night , that no one is powerful enough to do everything . 
Don't try , laughed Ozma . 
But you have at least one magical art , Dorothy you know the trick of winning all hearts . 
No , I don't , said Dorothy earnestly . 
If I really can do it , Ozma , I am sure I don't know how I do it . 
Even my purple kitten couldn't climb 'em , remarked Dorothy , gazing upward . 
Let's walk around a ways perhaps we'll find a ladder or something . 
This entrance was arched overhead and not very deep because it merely led to a short flight of stone stairs . 
Oh , we've found a way to the top at last , announced Ozma , and the two girls turned and walked straight toward the entrance . 
Suddenly they bumped against something and stood still , unable to proceed farther . 
Dear me ! exclaimed Dorothy , rubbing her nose , which had struck something hard , although she could not see what it was this isn't as easy as it looks . 
What has stopped us , Ozma ? Is it magic of some sort ? Ozma was feeling around , her bands outstretched before her . 
Yes , dear , it is magic , she replied . 
I wonder why they did that ? mused Dorothy . 
A wall would keep folks out anyhow , whether it could be seen or not , so there wasn't any use making it invisible . 
Seems to me it would have been better to have left it solid , for then no one would have seen the entrance behind it . 
Now anybody can see the entrance , as we did . 
And prob'bly anybody that tries to go up the stairs gets bumped , as we did . 
Ozma made no reply at once . 
Her face was grave and thoughtful . 
I think I know the reason for making the wall invisible , she said after a while . 
The Flatheads use the stairs for coming down and going up . 
If there was a solid stone wall to keep them from reaching the plain they would themselves be imprisoned by the wall . 
I suppose the wall is really high and thick , and can't be broken through , so those who find it in their way are obliged to go away again . 
Well , said Dorothy , if there's a way around the wall , where is it ? We must find it , returned Ozma , and began feeling her way along the wall . 
Dorothy followed and began to get discouraged when Ozma had walked nearly a quarter of a mile away from the entrance . 
The girls went in , single file , and Ozma explained that they were now behind the barrier and could go back to the entrance . 
They met no further obstructions . 
Most people , Ozma , wouldn't have figured this thing out the way you did , remarked Dorothy . 
If I'd been alone the invisible wall surely would have stumped me . 
Reaching the entrance they began to mount the stone stairs . 
They went up ten stairs and then down five stairs , following a passage cut from the rock . 
The stairs were just wide enough for the two girls to walk abreast , arm in arm . 
Again the passage turned abruptly , this time to the left , and ten more stairs led upward . 
The passage was now quite dark , for they were in the heart of the mountain and all daylight had been shut out by the turns of the passage . 
Ten steps up , five steps down , and a turn , this way or that . 
That was the program , and Dorothy figured that they were only gaining five stairs upward each trip that they made . 
Those Flatheads must be funny people , she said to Ozma . 
They don't seem to do anything in a bold straightforward manner . 
In making this passage they forced everyone to walk three times as far as is necessary . 
And of course this trip is just as tiresome to the Flatheads as it is to other folks . 
That is true , answered Ozma yet it is a clever arrangement to prevent their being surprised by intruders . 
How do you know that ? demanded Dorothy , astonished . 
I've heard the bell ever since we started , Ozma told her . 
You could not hear it , I know , but when I am holding my wand in my hand I can hear sounds a great distance off . 
Do you hear anything on top of the mountain 'cept the bell ? inquired Dorothy Yes . 
The people are calling to one another in alarm and many footsteps are approaching the place where we will reach the flat top of the mountain . 
This made Dorothy feel somewhat anxious . 
I'd thought we were going to visit just common , ordinary people , she remarked , but they're pretty clever , it seems , and they know some kinds of magic , too . 
They may be dangerous , Ozma . 
P'raps we'd better stayed at home . 
Finally the upstairs and downstairs passage seemed coming to an end , for daylight again appeared ahead of the two girls and Ozma replaced her wand in the bosom of her gown . 
Dorothy knew at once why these mountain people were called Flatheads . 
Their heads were really flat on top , as if they had been cut off just above the eyes and ears . 
Their eyes were perhaps their best feature , being large and bright and a deep violet in color . 
The costumes of the Flatheads were all made of metals dug from their mountain . 
Aside from their flat heads , these people were not really bad looking . 
The men were armed with bows and arrows and had small axes of steel stuck in their metal belts . 
They wore no hats nor ornaments . 
It was shaped like a saucer , so that the houses and other buildings all made of rocks could not be seen over the edge by anyone standing in the plain below . 
Well , I've never heard of the Land of Oz , so you may be what you claim , returned the Flathead . 
This is the Land of Oz part of it , anyway , exclaimed Dorothy . 
So Princess Ozma rules you Flathead people , as well as all the other people in Oz . 
The man laughed , and all the others who stood around laughed , too . 
Some one in the crowd called She'd better not tell the Supreme Dictator about ruling the Flatheads . 
Eh , friends ? No , indeed ! they all answered in positive tones . 
Who is your Supreme Dictator ? answered Ozma . 
I think I'll let him tell you that himself , answered the man who had first spoken . 
You have broken our laws by coming here and whoever you are the Supreme Dictator must fix your punishment . 
He started down a path and Ozma and Dorothy followed him without protest , as they wanted to see the most important person in this queer country . 
The houses they passed seemed pleasant enough and each had a little yard in which were flowers and vegetables . 
Walls of rock separated the dwellings , and all the paths were paved with smooth slabs of rock . 
This seemed their only building material and they utilized it cleverly for every purpose . 
Directly in the center of the great saucer stood a larger building which the Flathead informed the girls was the palace of the Supreme Dictator . 
He led them through an entrance hall into a big reception room , where they sat upon stone benches and awaited the coming of the Dictator . 
He kept his eyes half closed and looked through the slits of them at Ozma and Dorothy , who rose to receive him . 
Are you the Supreme Dictator of the Flatheads ? inquired Ozma . 
Yes , that's me , he said , rubbing his hands slowly together . 
I'm the head of the Flatheads on this flat headland . 
Go away , Dictator Felo Flathead ! he commanded . 
Return to your duty and guard the Stairway . 
I will look after these strangers . 
The man bowed and departed , and Dorothy asked wonderingly Is he a Dictator , too ? Of course , was the answer . 
Everybody here is a dictator of something or other . 
That's what keeps them contented . 
But I'm the Supreme Dictator of all , and I'm elected once a year . 
This is a democracy , you know , where the people are allowed to vote for their rulers . 
A good many others would like to be Supreme Dictator , but as I made a law that I am always to count the votes myself , I am always elected . 
What is your name ? asked Ozma . 
I am called the Su dic , which is short for Supreme Dictator . 
I sent that man away because the moment you mentioned Ozma of Oz , and the Emerald City , I knew who you are . 
I suppose I'm the only Flathead that ever heard of you , but that's because I have more brains than the rest . 
Dorothy was staring hard at the Su dic . 
I don't see how you can have any brains at all , she remarked , because the part of your head is gone where brains are kept . 
I don't blame you for thinking that , he said . 
Once the Flatheads had no brains because , as you say , there is no upper part to their heads , to hold brains . 
See , he continued , here is one of the cans of brains the fairies gave us . 
He took from a pocket a bright tin can having a pretty red label on it which said Concentrated Brains , Extra Quality . 
And does every Flathead have the same kind of brains ? asked Dorothy . 
Yes , they're all alike . 
From another pocket he produced a second can of brains . 
Did the fairies give you a double supply ? inquired Dorothy . 
One day my wife scolded me severely , so I took away her can of brains . 
She didn't like that and went out and robbed several women of their brains . 
Then I made a law that if anyone stole another's brains , or even tried to borrow them , he would forfeit his own brains to the Su dic . 
So each one is content with his own canned brains and my wife and I are the only ones on the mountain with more than one can . 
I have three cans and that makes me very clever so clever that I'm a good Sorcerer , if I do say it myself . 
My poor wife had four cans of brains and became a remarkable witch , but alas ! that was before those terrible enemies , the Skeezers , transformed her into a Golden Pig . 
Good gracious ! cried Dorothy is your wife really a Golden Pig ? She is . 
The Skeezers did it and so I have declared war on them . 
But Ozma said to him , very sweetly and in a friendly voice I am sorry to hear this . 
Will you please tell me more about your troubles with the Skeezers ? Then perhaps I can help you . 
She was only a girl , but there was dignity in her pose and speech which impressed the Su dic . 
If you are really Princess Ozma of Oz , the Flathead said , you are one of that band of fairies who , under Queen Lurline , made all Oz a Fairyland . 
I have heard that Lurline left one of her own fairies to rule Oz , and gave the fairy the name of Ozma . 
If you knew this why did you not come to me at the Emerald City and tender me your loyalty and obedience ? asked the Ruler of Oz . 
Well , I only learned the fact lately , and I've been too busy to leave home , he explained , looking at the floor instead of into Ozma's eyes . 
We Flatheads love fish , and as we have no fish on this mountain we would sometimes go to the Lake of the Skeezers to catch fish . 
This made the Skeezers angry , for they declared the fish in their lake belonged to them and were under their protection and they forbade us to catch them . 
So she vowed she would destroy every fish in the lake , unless the Skeezers let us catch what we wanted . 
They defied us , so Rora prepared a kettleful of magic poison and went down to the lake one night to dump it all in the water and poison the fish . 
Then , said Ozma thoughtfully , the Queen of the Skeezers must be a Sorceress . 
Yes , said the Su dic , but she doesn't know much magic , after all . 
The Golden Pig can't be a witch any more , of course , observed Dorothy . 
No even had Queen Coo ee oh left her the four cans of brains , poor Rora , in a pig's shape , couldn't do any witchcraft . 
A witch has to use her fingers , and a pig has only cloven hoofs . 
It seems a sad story , was Ozma's comment , and all the trouble arose because the Flatheads wanted fish that did not belong to them . 
So the trouble was through the Skeezers defying my law . 
You can only make laws to govern your own people , asserted Ozma sternly . 
I , alone , am empowered to make laws that must be obeyed by all the peoples of Oz . 
Pooh ! cried the Su dic scornfully . 
You can't make me obey your laws , I assure you . 
I know the extent of your powers , Princess Ozma of Oz , and I know that I am more powerful than you are . 
To prove it I shall keep you and your companion prisoners in this mountain until after we have fought and conquered the Skeezers . 
Then , if you promise to be good , I may let you go home again . 
Dorothy was amazed by this effrontery and defiance of the beautiful girl Ruler of Oz , whom all until now had obeyed without question . 
But Ozma , still unruffled and dignified , looked at the Su dic and said You did not mean that . 
You are angry and speak unwisely , without reflection . 
I came here from my palace in the Emerald City to prevent war and to make peace between you and the Skeezers . 
No one has the right to work magic in my dominions without my consent , so the Flatheads and the Skeezers have both broken my laws which must be obeyed . 
If you want to make peace , said the Su dic , make the Skeezers restore my wife to her proper form and give back her four cans of brains . 
Also make them agree to allow us to catch fish in their lake . 
No , returned Ozma , I will not do that , for it would be unjust . 
I will have the Golden Pig again transformed into your wife Rora , and give her one can of brains , but the other three cans must be restored to those she robbed . 
Neither may you catch fish in the Lake of the Skeezers , for it is their lake and the fish belong to them . 
This arrangement is just and honorable , and you must agree to it . 
Never ! cried the Su dic . 
Just then a pig came running into the room , uttering dismal grunts . 
It was made of solid gold , with joints at the bends of the legs and in the neck and jaws . 
The Golden Pig's eyes were rubies , and its teeth were polished ivory . 
There ! said the Su dic , gaze on the evil work of Queen Coo ee oh , and then say if you can prevent my making war on the Skeezers . 
That grunting beast was once my wife the most beautiful Flathead on our mountain and a skillful witch . 
Now look at her ! Fight the Skeezers , fight the Skeezers , fight the Skeezers ! grunted the Golden Pig . 
I will fight the Skeezers , exclaimed the Flathead chief , and if a dozen Ozmas of Oz forbade me I would fight just the same . 
Not if I can prevent it ! asserted Ozma . 
But since you threaten me , I'll have you confined in the bronze prison until the war is over , said the Su dic . 
He whistled and four stout Flatheads , armed with axes and spears , entered the room and saluted him . 
Turning to the men he said Take these two girls , bind them with wire ropes and cast them into the bronze prison . 
had been considering how best to escape from his power . 
With the other hand she grasped the hand of Dorothy , but these motions were so natural that the Su dic did not notice them . 
Then when he turned to meet his four soldiers , Ozma instantly rendered both herself and Dorothy invisible and swiftly led her companion around the group of Flatheads and out of the room . 
As they reached the entry and descended the stone steps , Ozma whispered Let us run , dear ! We are invisible , so no one will see us . 
Dorothy understood and she was a good runner . 
Ozma had marked the place where the grand stairway that led to the plain was located , so they made directly for it . 
Some people were in the paths but these they dodged around . 
The Su dic had lost no time in starting the chase . 
He and his men ran so fast that they might have overtaken the girls before they reached the stairway had not the Golden Pig suddenly run across their path . 
The Su dic tripped over the pig and fell flat , and his four men tripped over him and tumbled in a heap . 
Before they could scramble up and reach the mouth of the passage it was too late to stop the two girls . 
There was a guard on each side of the stairway , but of course they did not see Ozma and Dorothy as they sped past and descended the steps . 
Then they had to go up five steps and down another ten , and so on , in the same manner in which they had climbed to the top of the mountain . 
Ozma lighted their way with her wand and they kept on without relaxing their speed until they reached the bottom . 
As for the Su dic , he realized he was foiled and soon turned and climbed his stairs again . 
However , it was now too late for regrets and he determined to make preparations at once to march all his forces against the Skeezers . 
What shall we do next ? asked Dorothy , when they were rested . 
Let us find the Lake of the Skeezers , replied Ozma . 
I s'pose we can't stop the war now , remarked Dorothy reflectively , as they walked toward the row of palm trees . 
No the Su dic is determined to fight the Skeezers , so all we can do is to warn them of their danger and help them as much as possible . 
Of course you'll punish the Flatheads , said Dorothy . 
Well , I do not think the Flathead people are as much to blame as their Supreme Dictator , was the answer . 
I hope so , said Dorothy with a sigh of doubt The palms were not far from the mountain and the girls reached them after a brisk walk . 
Beyond the palms they discovered a very beautiful scene . 
Between the glass building and the edge of the island was no grass , flowers or shrubbery , but only an expanse of highly polished white marble . 
There were no boats on either shore and no signs of life could be seen anywhere on the island . 
Well , said Dorothy , gazing wistfully at the island , we've found the Lake of the Skeezers and their Magic Isle . 
I guess the Skeezers are in that big glass palace , but we can't get at 'em . 
Chapter Eight Queen Coo ee oh Princess Ozma considered the situation gravely . 
Then she tied her handkerchief to her wand and , standing at the water's edge , waved the handkerchief like a flag , as a signal . 
For a time they could observe no response . 
I don't see what good that will do , said Dorothy . 
Even if the Skeezers are on that island and see us , and know we're friends , they haven't any boats to come and get us . 
But the Skeezers didn't need boats , as the girls soon discovered . 
To the girls this steel arrangement looked like a triangle , with the base nearest the water . 
So Dorothy summoned her courage and followed after . 
Before Ozma had taken three steps she halted and so forced Dorothy to halt , for the bridge was again moving and returning to the island . 
We need not walk after all , said Ozma . 
So they stood still in their places and let the steel bridge draw them onward . 
The two young men bowed profoundly to Ozma , and one of them said Queen Coo ee oh bids you welcome , O Strangers . 
Her Majesty is waiting to receive you in her palace . 
Lead on , replied Ozma with dignity . 
But instead of leading on , the platform of marble began to rise , carrying them upward through a square hole above which just fitted it . 
A moment later they found themselves within the great glass dome that covered almost all of the island . 
Within this dome was a little village , with houses , streets , gardens and parks . 
The houses were of colored marbles , prettily designed , with many stained glass windows , and the streets and gardens seemed well cared for . 
Toward this building the young men escorted Ozma and Dorothy . 
On the streets and in the doorways or open windows of the houses were men , women and children , all richly dressed . 
They had beautiful homes , splendid clothes , and ample food , but Dorothy at once decided something was wrong with their lives and that they were not happy . 
She said nothing , however , but looked curiously at the Skeezers . 
Their conductors bowed and left them , and the two in uniforms led the girls into the palace . 
In a beautiful throne room , surrounded by a dozen or more young men and women , sat the Queen of the Skeezers , Coo ee oh . 
But evidently Queen Coo ee oh did not realize this fact , for her air and manner betrayed her as proud and haughty and with a high regard for her own importance . 
Dorothy at once decided she was snippy and that she would not like Queen Coo ee oh as a companion . 
The Queen's hair was as black as her skin was white and her eyes were black , too . 
I know nothing of the Land of Oz , and I know nothing of Kansas . 
Why , this is the Land of Oz ! cried Dorothy . 
It's a part of the Land of Oz , anyhow , whether you know it or not . 
Oh , in deed ! answered Queen Coo ee oh , scornfully . 
I suppose you will claim next that this Princess Ozma , ruling the Land of Oz , rules me ! Of course , returned Dorothy . 
There's no doubt of it . 
The Queen turned to Ozma . 
Do you dare make such a claim ? she asked . 
By this time Ozma had made up her mind as to the character of this haughty and disdainful creature , whose self pride evidently led her to believe herself superior to all others . 
I did not come here to quarrel with your Majesty , said the girl Ruler of Oz , quietly . 
What and who I am is well established , and my authority comes from the Fairy Queen Lurline , of whose band I was a member when Lurline made all Oz a Fairyland . 
There are several countries and several different peoples in this broad land , each of which has its separate rulers , Kings , Emperors and Queens . 
But all these render obedience to my laws and acknowledge me as the supreme Ruler . 
If other Kings and Queens are fools that does not interest me in the least , replied Coo ee oh , disdainfully . 
In the Land of the Skeezers I alone am supreme . 
You are impudent to think I would defer to you or to anyone else . 
Let us not speak of this now , please , answered Ozma . 
Your island is in danger , for a powerful foe is preparing to destroy it . 
I do not fear them . 
Their Supreme Dictator is a Sorcerer . 
My magic is greater than his . 
Let the Flatheads come ! They will never return to their barren mountain top . 
I will see to that . 
She was also greatly disappointed in Coo ee oh , for the reports of Su dic had led her to imagine the Queen more just and honorable than were the Flatheads . 
I do not like wars , your Majesty , said Ozma . 
If differences arise between my people , they come to me and I judge the cases and award justice to all . 
So , when I learned there might be war between two faraway people of Oz , I came here to settle the dispute and adjust the quarrel . 
No one asked you to come , declared Queen Coo ee oh . 
It is my business to settle this dispute , not yours . 
You say you are a fairy , and that fairies gave you command over me . 
You two girls may even be spies of the vile Flatheads , for all I know , and may be trying to trick me . 
But understand this , she added , proudly rising from her jeweled throne to confront them , I have magic powers greater than any fairy possesses , and greater than any Flathead possesses . 
I am a Krumbic Witch the only Krumbic Witch in the world and I fear the magic of no other creature that exists ! You say you rule thousands . 
I rule one hundred and one Skeezers . 
But every one of them trembles at my word . 
Now that Ozma of Oz and Princess Dorothy are here , I shall rule one hundred and three subjects , for you also shall bow before my power . 
More than that , in ruling you I also rule the thousands you say you rule . 
Dorothy was very indignant at this speech . 
I've got a pink kitten that sometimes talks like that , she said , but after I give her a good whipping she doesn't think she's so high and mighty after all . 
If you only knew who Ozma is you'd be scared to death to talk to her like that ! Queen Coo ee oh gave the girl a supercilious look . 
Then she turned again to Ozma . 
I happen to know , said she , that the Flatheads intend to attack us tomorrow , but we are ready for them . 
Until the battle is over , I shall keep you two strangers prisoners on my island , from which there is no chance for you to escape . 
She turned and looked around the band of courtiers who stood silently around her throne . 
Lady Aurex , she continued , singling out one of the young women , take these children to your house and care for them , giving them food and lodging . 
You may allow them to wander anywhere under the Great Dome , for they are harmless . 
After I have attended to the Flatheads I will consider what next to do with these foolish girls . 
She resumed her seat and the Lady Aurex bowed low and said in a humble manner I obey your Majesty's commands . 
Then to Ozma and Dorothy she added , Follow me , and turned to leave the throne room . 
Dorothy looked to see what Ozma would do . 
To her surprise and a little to her disappointment Ozma turned and followed Lady Aurex . 
When they were seated Lady Aurex asked if they were hungry , and finding they were summoned a maid and ordered food to be brought . 
Why are you afraid to speak freely ? inquired Ozma . 
The Queen punishes us if we make remarks that she does not like . 
Are we not alone then , in this house ? The Queen can hear everything that is spoken on this island even the slightest whisper , declared Lady Aurex . 
She is a wonderful witch , as she has told you , and it is folly to criticise her or disobey her commands . 
Ozma looked into her eyes and saw that she would like to say more if she dared . 
We may now speak freely and as loudly as we wish , without fear of the Queen's anger . 
Lady Aurex brightened at this . 
Can I trust you ? she asked . 
Ev'rybody trusts Ozma , exclaimed Dorothy . 
She is true and honest , and your wicked Queen will be sorry she insulted the powerful Ruler of all the Land of Oz . 
Do not fear Coo ee oh's anger , for she cannot hear a word we say , I assure you . 
Lady Aurex was thoughtful a moment then she said I shall trust you , Princess Ozma , for I believe you are what you say you are our supreme Ruler . 
If you knew the dreadful punishments our Queen inflicts upon us , you would not wonder we are so unhappy . 
Hasn't she any heart , then ? asked Dorothy . 
She loves no one but herself , asserted Lady Aurex , but she trembled as she said it , as if afraid even yet of her terrible Queen . 
That's pretty bad , said Dorothy , shaking her head gravely . 
I see you've a lot to do here , Ozma , in this forsaken corner of the Land of Oz . 
First place , you've got to take the magic away from Queen Coo ee oh , and from that awful Su dic , too . 
My idea is that neither of them is fit to rule anybody , 'cause they're cruel and hateful . 
Then , when you've done that , we can go back home again . 
That these things should be done , there is no doubt , but just now a dreadful war is likely to break out , and frightful things may happen to us all . 
Do you know the reason ? asked the Lady Aurex . 
I don't s'pose there was any reason , 'cept just wickedness , replied Dorothy . 
Tell us the reason , said Ozma earnestly . 
Well , your Majesty , once a long time ago the Flatheads and the Skeezers were friendly . 
They visited our island and we visited their mountain , and everything was pleasant between the two peoples . 
At that time the Flatheads were ruled by three Adepts in Sorcery , beautiful girls who were not Flatheads , but had wandered to the Flat Mountain and made their home there . 
These three Adepts used their magic only for good , and the mountain people gladly made them their rulers . 
Coo ee oh was our Queen then , as now , but she knew no magic and so had nothing to be proud of . 
But the three Adepts were very kind to Coo ee oh . 
They built for us this wonderful dome of glass and our houses of marble and taught us to make beautiful clothing and many other things . 
In this she was more clever than anyone suspected . 
Frightened by this threat , Coo ee oh at once caught up the three fish and ran with them to the shore of the lake , where she cast them into the water . 
This revived the three Adepts and they swam away and disappeared . 
I , myself , witnessed this shocking scene , continued Lady Aurex , and so did many other Skeezers . 
The news was carried to the Flatheads , who then turned from friends to enemies . 
Some of the Adepts' magic tools had been left on the mountain , and these Rora seized and by the use of them she became a witch . 
The result of Coo ee oh's treachery was to make both the Skeezers and the Flatheads miserable instead of happy . 
Not only were the Su dic and his wife cruel to their people , but our Queen at once became proud and arrogant and treated us very unkindly . 
All the Skeezers knew she had stolen her magic powers and so she hated us and made us humble ourselves before her and obey her slightest word . 
That is why we fear her so greatly . 
This story filled Ozma's heart with sorrow and Dorothy's heart with indignation . 
I now understand , said Ozma , why the fishes in the lake have brought about war between the Skeezers and the Flatheads . 
Yes , Lady Aurex answered , now that you know the story it is easy to understand . 
Then they could easily conquer her . 
That was why Rora finally tried to poison all the fishes in the lake , at the time Coo ee oh transformed her into a Golden Pig . 
Of course this attempt to destroy the fishes frightened the Queen , for her safety lies in keeping the three fishes alive . 
I s'pose Coo ee oh will fight the Flatheads with all her might , observed Dorothy . 
And with all her magic , added Ozma , thoughtfully . 
I do not see how the Flatheads can get to this island to hurt us , said Lady Aurex . 
They have bows and arrows , and I guess they mean to shoot the arrows at your big dome , and break all the glass in it , suggested Dorothy . 
But Lady Aurex shook her head with a smile . 
They cannot do that , she replied . 
Why not ? I dare not tell you why , but if the Flatheads come to morrow morning you will yourselves see the reason . 
I do not think they will attempt to harm the island , Ozma declared . 
I believe they will first attempt to destroy the fishes , by poison or some other means . 
If they succeed in that , the conquest of the island will not be difficult . 
They have no boats , said Lady Aurex , and Coo ee oh , who has long expected this war , has been preparing for it in many astonishing ways . 
Ozma will take care of you , whatever happens , Dorothy assured her . 
But the Lady Aurex , not knowing the extent of Ozma's power which was , in fact , not so great as Dorothy imagined could not take much comfort in this promise . 
It was evident there would be exciting times on the morrow , if the Flatheads really attacked the Skeezers of the Magic Isle . 
Chapter Ten Under Water When night fell all the interior of the Great Dome , streets and houses , became lighted with brilliant incandescent lamps , which rendered it bright as day . 
Dorothy thought the island must look beautiful by night from the outer shore of the lake . 
They were prisoners , but treated with much consideration . 
Lady Aurex gave them a nice supper and when they wished to retire showed them to a pretty room with comfortable beds and wished them a good night and pleasant dreams . 
What do you think of all this , Ozma ? Dorothy anxiously inquired when they were alone . 
My task , therefore , is to liberate the Skeezers and the Flatheads and secure for them freedom and happiness . 
I have no doubt I can accomplish this in time . 
Just now , though , we're in a bad fix , asserted Dorothy . 
If Queen Coo ee oh conquers to morrow , she won't be nice to us , and if the Su dic conquers , he'll be worse . 
Do not worry , dear , said Ozma , I do not think we are in danger , whatever happens , and the result of our adventure is sure to be good . 
Dorothy was not worrying , especially . 
She had confidence in her friend , the fairy Princess of Oz , and she enjoyed the excitement of the events in which she was taking part . 
So she crept into bed and fell asleep as easily as if she had been in her own cosy room in Ozma's palace . 
A sort of grating , grinding sound awakened her . 
The whole island seemed to tremble and sway , as it might do in an earthquake . 
Dorothy sat up in bed , rubbing her eyes to get the sleep out of them , and then found it was daybreak . 
Ozma was hurriedly dressing herself . 
What is it ? asked Dorothy , jumping out of bed . 
I'm not sure , answered Ozma but it feels as if the island is sinking . 
As soon as possible they finished dressing , while the creaking and swaying continued . 
Then they rushed into the living room of the house and found Lady Aurex , fully dressed , awaiting them . 
Do not be alarmed , said their hostess . 
Coo ee oh has decided to submerge the island , that is all . 
But it proves the Flatheads are coming to attack us . 
What do you mean by sub sub merging the island ? asked Dorothy . 
Come here and see , was the reply . 
The Flatheads are not here yet , said Lady Aurex . 
They will come soon , but not until all of this dome is under the surface of the water . 
Won't the dome leak ? Dorothy inquired anxiously . 
Was the island ever sub sub sunk before ? Oh , yes on several occasions . 
But Coo ee oh doesn't care to do that often , for it requires a lot of hard work to operate the machinery . 
The dome was built so that the island could disappear . 
I think , she continued , that our Queen fears the Flatheads will attack the island and try to break the glass of the dome . 
Well , if we're under water , they can't fight us , and we can't fight them , asserted Dorothy . 
They could kill the fishes , however , said Ozma gravely We have ways to fight , also , even though our island is under water , claimed Lady Aurex . 
I cannot tell you all our secrets , but this island is full of surprises . 
Also our Queen's magic is astonishing . 
By this time the top of the dome was quite under water and suddenly the island stopped sinking and became stationary . 
See ! cried Lady Aurex , pointing to the shore . 
On the bank , which was now far above their heads , a crowd of dark figures could be seen . 
Now let us see what Coo ee oh will do to oppose them , continued Lady Aurex , in a voice that betrayed her excitement . 
The Flatheads , pushing their way through the line of palm trees , had reached the shore of the lake just as the top of the island's dome disappeared beneath the surface . 
Good ! exclaimed the Su dic , who had armed all his followers and had brought with him two copper vessels , which he carefully set down upon the ground beside him . 
Kill them , then , while we have time , and then we can go home again , advised one of the chief officers . 
Not yet , objected the Su dic . 
The Queen of the Skeezers has defied me , and I want to get her into my power , as well as to destroy her magic . 
She transformed my poor wife into a Golden Pig , and I must have revenge for that , whatever else we do . 
Look out ! suddenly exclaimed the officers , pointing into the lake something's going to happen . 
From the submerged dome a door opened and something black shot swiftly out into the water . 
The door instantly closed behind it and the dark object cleaved its way through the water , without rising to the surface , directly toward the place where the Flatheads were standing . 
What is that ? Dorothy asked the Lady Aurex . 
That is one of the Queen's submarines , was the reply . 
It is all enclosed , and can move under water . 
Coo ee oh has several of these boats which are kept in little rooms in the basement under our village . 
When the island is submerged , the Queen uses these boats to reach the shore , and I believe she now intends to fight the Flatheads with them . 
The Su dic and his people knew nothing of Coo ee oh's submarines , so they watched with surprise as the under water boat approached them . 
When it was quite near the shore it rose to the surface and the top parted and fell back , disclosing a boat full of armed Skeezers . 
At the head was the Queen , standing up in the bow and holding in one hand a coil of magic rope that gleamed like silver . 
The boat halted and Coo ee oh drew back her arm to throw the silver rope toward the Su dic , who was now but a few feet from her . 
A moment later there arose to the surface a beautiful White Swan . 
The head of the Diamond Swan had a bill of polished gold and its eyes were two sparkling amethysts . 
Hooray ! cried the Su dic , dancing up and down with wicked glee . 
My poor wife , Rora , is avenged at last . 
You made her a Golden Pig , Coo ee oh , and now I have made you a Diamond Swan . 
You will be punished for this . 
And then he carelessly tipped over the other copper vessel with his heel and its contents spilled on the sands and were lost to the last drop . 
The Su dic stopped short and looked at the overturned vessel with a rueful countenance . 
That's too bad too bad ! he exclaimed sorrowfully . 
Very well , said the Diamond Swan scornfully , as she floated upon the water and swam gracefully here and there . 
I'm glad to see you are foiled . 
The Su dic stared at the Swan a moment . 
When Coo ce oh rose to the surface she was far from the shore and she swiftly swam across the lake to where no arrows or spears could reach her . 
The Su dic rubbed his chin and thought what to do next . 
Near by floated the submarine in which the Queen had come , but the Skeezers who were in it were puzzled what to do with themselves . 
Perhaps they were not sorry their cruel mistress had been transformed into a Diamond Swan , but the transformation had left them quite helpless . 
The under water boat was not operated by machinery , but by certain mystic words uttered by Coo ee oh . 
As a matter of fact , they were now shut out of their village under the Great Dome and could not get back again . 
Then the Su dic laughed and answered Not so . 
I can't be bothered by caring for a lot of stupid Skeezers . 
Stay where you are , or go wherever you please , so long as you keep away from our mountain . 
He turned to his men and added We have conquered Queen Coo ee oh and made her a helpless swan . 
The Skeezers are under water and may stay there . 
I'm sorry we couldn't have roast pig , said the Su dic , but as the only pig we have is made of gold , we can't eat her . 
Also the Golden Pig happens to be my wife , and even were she not gold I am sure she would be too tough to eat . 
But , your Majesty , we must go home and we do not know how to get there , Ervic persisted . 
My eyes , remarked the Diamond Swan , are wonderfully blue and bright and will charm all beholders . 
Swans are lovelier than girls , especially when they're sprinkled with diamonds . 
Don't you think so ? And she gracefully swam away , without seeming to care whether they answered or not . 
Ervic and his companions were in despair . 
They saw plainly that Coo ee oh could not or would not help them . 
The former Queen had no further thought for her island , her people , or her wonderful magic she was only intent on admiring her own beauty . 
Many of the Skeezers had also crowded against the dome , wondering what would happen next . 
Although their vision was to an extent blurred by the water and the necessity of looking upward at an angle , they had observed the main points of the drama enacted above . 
I hate that old Su dic , but I'm glad Coo ee oh is punished . 
This is a dreadful misfortune ! cried Lady Aurex , pressing her hands upon her heart . 
Yes , agreed Ozma , nodding her head thoughtfully Coo ee oh's misfortune will prove a terrible blow to her people . 
What do you mean by that ? asked Dorothy in surprise . 
Seems to me the Skeezers are in luck to lose their cruel Queen . 
If that were all you would be right , responded Lady Aurex and if the island were above water it would not be so serious . 
But here we all are , at the bottom of the lake , and fast prisoners in this dome . 
Can't you raise the island ? inquired Dorothy . 
No. Only Coo ee oh knew how to do that , was the answer . 
We can try , insisted Dorothy . 
If it can be made to go down , it can be made to come up . 
The machinery is still here , I suppose . 
Yes but the machinery works by magic , and Coo ee oh would never share her secret power with any one of us . 
Dorothy's face grew grave but she was thinking . 
Ozma knows a lot of magic , she said . 
But not that kind of magic , Ozma replied . 
Can't you learn how , by looking at the machinery ? I'm afraid not , my dear . 
It isn't fairy magic at all it is witchcraft . 
Well , said Dorothy , turning to Lady Aurex , you say there are other sub sub sinking boats . 
We can get in one of those , and shoot out to the top of the water , like Coo ee oh did , and so escape . 
And then we can help to rescue all the Skeezers down here . 
No one knows how to work the under water boats but the Queen , declared Lady Aurex . 
The Skeezers , said Ozma , could not drown they only get wet and soggy and in that condition they would be very uncomfortable and unhappy . 
But you are a mortal girl , Dorothy , and if your Magic Belt protected you from death you would have to lie forever at the bottom of the lake . 
No , I'd rather die quickly , asserted the little girl . 
But there are doors in the basement that open to let out the bridges and the boats and that would not flood the dome , you know . 
Those doors open by a magic word , and only Coo ee oh knows the word that must be uttered , said Lady Aurex . 
Dear me ! exclaimed Dorothy , that dreadful Queen's witchcraft upsets all my plans to escape . 
I guess I'll give it up , Ozma , and let you save us . 
Ozma smiled , but her smile was not so cheerful as usual . 
In such a dilemma , said she , musingly , nothing is gained by haste . 
Careful thought may aid us , and so may the course of events . 
The unexpected is always likely to happen , and cheerful patience is better than reckless action . 
All right , returned Dorothy take your time , Ozma there's no hurry . 
How about some breakfast , Lady Aurex ? Their hostess led them back to the house , where she ordered her trembling servants to prepare and serve breakfast . 
All the Skeezers were frightened and anxious over the transformation of their Queen into a swan . 
On the contrary , such magic as Coo ee oh knew and practiced is unlawful witchcraft and her arts are such as no fairy would condescend to use . 
Do you promise to accept me as your Ruler and to obey my commands ? They promised willingly . 
Then , continued Ozma , I will go to Coo ee oh's palace and take possession of it . 
Perhaps what I find there will be of use to me . 
In the meantime tell all the Skeezers to fear nothing , but have patience . 
Let them return to their homes and perform their daily tasks as usual . 
Coo ee oh's loss may not prove a misfortune , but rather a blessing . 
This speech cheered the Skeezers amazingly . 
Really , they had no one now to depend upon but Ozma , and in spite of their dangerous position their hearts were lightened by the transformation and absence of their cruel Queen . 
They got out their brass band and a grand procession escorted Ozma and Dorothy to the palace , where all of Coo ee oh's former servants were eager to wait upon them . 
Ozma was somewhat disappointed in what she found in the palace . 
Moreover , from all reports these Adepts practiced only good witchcraft , such as would be helpful to their people , while Coo ee oh performed only evil . 
Perhaps she turned the good things to evil uses ? suggested Dorothy . 
Yes , and with the knowledge she gained Coo ee oh doubtless invented many evil things quite unknown to the good Adepts , who are now fishes , added Ozma . 
It is unfortunate for us that the Queen kept her secrets so closely guarded , for no one but herself could use any of these strange things gathered in this room . 
Couldn't we capture the Diamond Swan and make her tell the secrets ? asked Dorothy . 
No even were we able to capture her , Coo ee oh now has forgotten all the magic she ever knew . 
But until we ourselves escape from this dome we could not capture the Swan , and were we to escape we would have no use for Coo ee oh's magic . 
That's a fact , admitted Dorothy . 
It would be as hard for us to capture the three fishes , from among all the other fishes in the lake , as to capture the Swan . 
But if we could , it would be more help to us , persisted the little girl . 
That is true , answered Ozma , smiling at her friend's eagerness . 
You find a way to catch the fish , and I'll promise when they are caught to restore them to their proper forms . 
I know you think I can't do it , replied Dorothy , but I'm going to try . 
She left the palace and went to a place where she could look through a clear pane of the glass dome into the surrounding water . 
Immediately she became interested in the queer sights that met her view . 
The Lake of the Skeezers was inhabited by fishes of many kinds and many sizes . 
The water was so transparent that the girl could see for a long distance and the fishes came so close to the glass of the dome that sometimes they actually touched it . 
On the white sands at the bottom of the lake were star fish , lobsters , crabs and many shell fish of strange shapes and with shells of gorgeous hues . 
The water foliage was of brilliant colors and to Dorothy it resembled a splendid garden . 
But the fishes were the most interesting of all . 
Some were big and lazy , floating slowly along or lying at rest with just their fins waving . 
Many with big round eyes looked full at the girl as she watched them and Dorothy wondered if they could hear her through the glass if she spoke to them . 
It was among the smaller varieties that Dorothy hoped to spy the gold and silver and bronze fishes . 
Her eyes couldn't look in all directions and the fishes she sought might be on the other side of the dome , or far away in the lake . 
P'raps , because they were afraid of Coo ee oh , they've hid themselves somewhere , and don't know their enemy has been transformed , she reflected . 
She watched the fishes for a long time , until she became hungry and went back to the palace for lunch . 
But she was not discouraged . 
Anything new , Ozma ? she asked . 
Did you discover the three fishes ? Not yet . 
But there isn't anything better for me to do , Ozma , so I guess I'll go back and watch again . 
Then came the statement that the Flatheads had come to the lake to poison the fishes and that their Supreme Dictator had transformed Queen Coo ee oh into a swan . 
So Glinda was not worried about Ozma and Dorothy until one morning , while she sat with her maids , there came a sudden clang of the great alarm bell . 
This was so unusual that every maid gave a start and even the Sorceress for a moment could not think what the alarm meant . 
Then she remembered the ring she had given Dorothy when she left the palace to start on her venture . 
So the Sorceress now knew that danger threatened her beloved Ruler and Princess Dorothy , and she hurried to her magic room to seek information as to what sort of danger it was . 
Hasn't Ozma the power to raise the island to the surface ? inquired Glinda . 
Then Glinda consulted the past records of the Skeezers in the Great Book . 
Glinda reflected earnestly on this information and decided that someone must go to Ozma's assistance . 
The Sorceress looked through all her recipes and books of sorcery , but could find no magic that would raise a sunken island . 
Such a thing had never before been required in sorcery . 
She made several such experiments , but all were failures . 
It seemed a simple thing to do , yet she could not do it . 
Nevertheless , the wise Sorceress did not despair of finding a way to liberate her friends . 
Finally she concluded that the best thing to do was to go to the Skeezer country and examine the lake . 
While there she was more likely to discover a solution to the problem that bothered her , and to work out a plan for the rescue of Ozma and Dorothy . 
In Princess Ozma's palace the Scarecrow was now acting as Ruler of the Land of Oz . 
There wasn't much for him to do , because all the affairs of state moved so smoothly , but he was there in case anything unforeseen should happen . 
Something's happened ! cried Trot , as the chariot of the Sorceress descended near them . 
Glinda never comes here 'cept something's gone wrong . 
I hope no harm has come to Ozma , or Dorothy , said Betsy anxiously , as the lovely Sorceress stepped down from her chariot . 
Glinda approached the Scarecrow and told him of the dilemma of Ozma and Dorothy and she added We must save them , somehow , Scarecrow . 
Of course , replied the Scarecrow , stumbling over a wicket and falling flat on his painted face . 
We must have a Council of State as soon as possible , proposed the Sorceress . 
Please send messengers to summon all of Ozma's counsellors to this palace . 
Then we can decide what is best to be done . 
The Scarecrow lost no time in doing this . 
Fortunately most of the royal counsellors were in the Emerald City or near to it , so they all met in the throne room of the palace that same evening . 
Chapter Fourteen Ozma's Counsellors No Ruler ever had such a queer assortment of advisers as the Princess Ozma had gathered about her throne . 
Indeed , in no other country could such amazing people exist . 
But Ozma loved them for their peculiarities and could trust every one of them . 
First there was the Tin Woodman . 
Every bit of him was tin , brightly polished . 
All his joints were kept well oiled and moved smoothly . 
The Tin Woodman's name was Nick Chopper . 
He had a very good mind , but his heart was not of much account , so he was very careful to do nothing unkind or to hurt anyone's feelings . 
Another counsellor was Scraps , the Patchwork Girl of Oz , who was made of a gaudy patchwork quilt , cut into shape and stuffed with cotton . 
This Patchwork Girl was very intelligent , but so full of fun and mad pranks that a lot of more stupid folks thought she must be crazy . 
Then there was the Shaggy Man shaggy from head to foot , hair and whiskers , clothes and shoes but very kind and gentle and one of Ozma's most loyal supporters . 
Tik Tok was there , a copper man with machinery inside him , so cleverly constructed that he moved , spoke and thought by three separate clock works . 
A different sort of person was Jack Pumpkinhead , one of Ozma's oldest friends and her companion on many adventures . 
Jack's body was very crude and awkward , being formed of limbs of trees of different sizes , jointed with wooden pegs . 
But it was a substantial body and not likely to break or wear out , and when it was dressed the clothes covered much of its roughness . 
The head of Jack Pumpkinhead was , as you have guessed , a ripe pumpkin , with the eyes , nose and mouth carved upon one side . 
The pumpkin was stuck on Jack's wooden neck and was liable to get turned sidewise or backward and then he would have to straighten it with his wooden hands . 
The worst thing about this sort of a head was that it did not keep well and was sure to spoil sooner or later . 
He didn't always carve it the same way , so his friends never knew exactly what sort of an expression they would find on his face . 
But there was no mistaking him , because he was the only pumpkin headed man alive in the Land of Oz . 
A one legged sailor man was a member of Ozma's council . 
His name was Cap'n Bill and he had come to the Land of Oz with Trot , and had been made welcome on account of his cleverness , honesty and good nature . 
Professor H. M. Wogglebug , T. E. , was another member of the council . 
The H. M. meant Highly Magnified , for the Professor was once a little bug , who became magnified to the size of a man and always remained so . 
The T. E. meant that he was Thoroughly Educated . 
These useful pills made the college very popular and taught the boys and girls of Oz their lessons in the easiest possible way . 
Ozma found him of value in her councils , nevertheless . 
Perhaps the most splendidly dressed of all those present was a great frog as large as a man , called the Frogman , who was noted for his wise sayings . 
He had come to the Emerald City from the Yip Country of Oz and was a guest of honor . 
His long tailed coat was of velvet , his vest of satin and his trousers of finest silk . 
There were diamond buckles on his shoes and he carried a gold headed cane and a high silk hat . 
All of the bright colors were represented in his rich attire , so it tired one's eyes to look at him for long , until one became used to his splendor . 
The best farmer in all Oz was Uncle Henry , who was Dorothy's own uncle , and who now lived near the Emerald City with his wife Aunt Em . 
Uncle Henry taught the Oz people how to grow the finest vegetables and fruits and grains and was of much use to Ozma in keeping the Royal Storehouses well filled . 
He , too , was a counsellor . 
The reason I mention the little Wizard of Oz last is because he was the most important man in the Land of Oz . 
He wasn't a big man in size but he was a man in power and intelligence and second only to Glinda the Good in all the mystic arts of magic . 
The Wizard wasn't exactly handsome but he was pleasant to look at . 
His bald head was as shiny as if it had been varnished there was always a merry twinkle in his eyes and he was as spry as a schoolboy . 
That is why I have called you together in council . 
The easiest way , remarked the Shaggy Man , is to raise the sunken island of the Skeezers to the top of the water again . 
Tell me how ? said Glinda . 
I don't know how , your Highness , for I have never raised a sunken island . 
We might all get under it and lift , suggested Professor Wogglebug . 
How can we get under it when it rests on the bottom of the lake ? asked the Sorceress . 
Couldn't we throw a rope around it and pull it ashore ? inquired Jack Pumpkinhead . 
Why not pump the water out of the lake ? suggested the Patchwork Girl with a laugh . 
Do be sensible ! pleaded Glinda . 
This is a serious matter , and we must give it serious thought . 
How big is the lake and how big is the island ? was the Frogman's question . 
None of us can tell , for we have not been there . 
In that case , said the Scarecrow , it appears to me we ought to go to the Skeezer country and examine it carefully . 
Quite right , agreed the Tin Woodman . 
We will have to go there any how , remarked Tik Tok in his jerky machine voice . 
The question is which of us shall go , and how many of us ? said the Wizard . 
I shall go of course , declared the Scarecrow . 
And I , said Scraps . 
It is my duty to Ozma to go , asserted the Tin Woodman . 
I could not stay away , knowing our loved Princess is in danger , said the Wizard . 
We all feel like that , Uncle Henry said . 
Finally one and all present decided to go to the Skeezer country , with Glinda and the little Wizard to lead them . 
Magic must meet magic in order to conquer it , so these two skillful magic workers were necessary to insure the success of the expedition . 
They were all ready to start at a moment's notice , for none had any affairs of importance to attend to . 
Jack was wearing a newly made Pumpkin head and the Scarecrow had recently been stuffed with fresh straw . 
Tik Tok's machinery was in good running order and the Tin Woodman always was well oiled . 
So , as we must keep together , I will send my chariot back to my castle and we will plan to leave the Emerald City at sunrise to morrow . 
Chapter Fifteen The Great Sorceress Betsy and Trot , when they heard of the rescue expedition , begged the Wizard to permit them to join it and he consented . 
The Glass Cat , overhearing the conversation , wanted to go also and to this the Wizard made no objection . 
This Glass Cat was one of the real curiosities of Oz . 
It had been made and brought to life by a clever magician named Dr . 
Pipt , who was not now permitted to work magic and was an ordinary citizen of the Emerald City . 
The cat was of transparent glass , through which one could plainly see its ruby heart beating and its pink brains whirling around in the top of the head . 
The Glass Cat's eyes were emeralds its fluffy tail was of spun glass and very beautiful . 
The ruby heart , while pretty to look at , was hard and cold and the Glass Cat's disposition was not pleasant at all times . 
It scorned to catch mice , did not eat , and was extremely lazy . 
If you complimented the remarkable cat on her beauty , she would be very friendly , for she loved admiration above everything . 
The pink brains were always working and their owner was indeed more intelligent than most common cats . 
Three other additions to the rescue party were made the next morning , just as they were setting out upon their journey . 
The first was a little boy called Button Bright , because he had no other name that anyone could remember . 
He was a fine , manly little fellow , well mannered and good humored , who had only one bad fault . 
He was continually getting lost . 
To be sure , Button Bright got found as often as he got lost , but when he was missing his friends could not help being anxious about him . 
Some day , predicted the Patchwork Girl , he won't be found , and that will be the last of him . 
But that didn't worry Button Bright , who was so careless that he did not seem to be able to break the habit of getting lost . 
The second addition to the party was a Munchkin boy of about Button Bright's age , named Ojo . 
He was often called Ojo the Lucky , because good fortune followed him wherever he went . 
He and Button Bright were close friends , although of such different natures , and Trot and Betsy were fond of both . 
The third and last to join the expedition was an enormous lion , one of Ozma's regular guardians and the most important and intelligent beast in all Oz . 
Often he had saved Dorothy and Ozma in times of peril , but afterward he moaned and trembled and wept because he had been so scared . 
If Ozma needs help , I'm going to help her , said the great beast . 
Also , I suspect the rest of you may need me on the journey especially Trot and Betsy for you may pass through a dangerous part of the country . 
I know that wild Gillikin country pretty well . 
Its forests harbor many ferocious beasts . 
They followed a different route from that taken by Ozma and Dorothy , for they went through the Winkie Country and up north toward Oogaboo . 
But before they got there they swerved to the left and entered the Great Gillikin Forest , the nearest thing to a wilderness in all Oz . 
The forest was only reached after a tedious tramp , for some of the Rescue Expedition were quite awkward on their feet . 
Then , too , Tik Tok's machinery kept running down , so Betsy and Trot took turns in winding it up . 
Another awkward one was Jack Pumpkinhead , for walking would jar his head around on his neck and then he would be likely to go in the wrong direction . 
But the Frogman took Jack's arm and then he followed the path more easily . 
Cap'n Bill's wooden leg didn't prevent him from keeping up with the others and the old sailor could walk as far as any of them . 
When they entered the forest the Cowardly Lion took the lead . 
There was no path here for men , but many beasts had made paths of their own which only the eyes of the Lion , practiced in woodcraft , could discern . 
So he stalked ahead and wound his way in and out , the others following in single file , Glinda being next to the Lion . 
There are dangers in the forest , of course , but as the huge Lion headed the party he kept the wild denizens of the wilderness from bothering the travelers . 
Are you hurt ? Trot anxiously inquired of the Glass Cat . 
How silly ! exclaimed the creature in an irritated tone of voice nothing can hurt glass , and I'm too solid to break easily . 
But I'm annoyed at that leopard's impudence . 
He has no respect for beauty or intelligence . 
If he had noticed my pink brains work , I'm sure he would have realized I'm too important to be grabbed in a wild beast's jaws . 
Never mind , said Trot consolingly I'm sure he won't do it again . 
They were almost in the center of the forest when Ojo , the Munchkin boy , suddenly said Why , where's Button Bright ? They halted and looked around them . 
Button Bright was not with the party . 
Dear me , remarked Betsy , I expect he's lost again ! When did you see him last , Ojo ? inquired Glinda . 
It was some time ago , replied Ojo . 
He was trailing along at the end and throwing twigs at the squirrels in the trees . 
Then I went to talk to Betsy and Trot , and just now I noticed he was gone . 
This is too bad , declared the Wizard , for it is sure to delay our journey . 
We must find Button Bright before we go any farther , for this forest is full of ferocious beasts that would not hesitate to tear the boy to pieces . 
But what shall we do ? asked the Scarecrow . 
The Glass Cat could go , suggested the Frogman . 
The beasts can do her no harm , as we have discovered . 
The Wizard turned to Glinda . 
Cannot your sorcery discover where Button Bright is ? he asked . 
I think so , replied the Sorceress . 
On the surface of the glass she dusted a white powder and then wiped it away with her handkerchief and looked in the mirror . 
It reflected a part of the forest , and there , beneath a wide spreading tree , Button Bright was lying asleep . 
On one side of him crouched a tiger , ready to spring on the other side was a big gray wolf , its bared fangs glistening in a wicked way . 
Goodness me ! cried Trot , looking over Glinda's shoulder . 
They'll catch and kill him sure . 
Everyone crowded around for a glimpse at the magic mirror . 
Pretty bad pretty bad ! said the Scarecrow sorrowfully . 
Comes of getting lost ! said Cap'n Bill , sighing . 
Guess he's a goner ! said the Frogman , wiping his eyes on his purple silk handkerchief . 
But where is he ? Can't we save him ? asked Ojo the Lucky . 
Most of them watched the Sorceress with anxious eyes , despair giving way to the hope that she might be able to save their friend . 
the Wizard , however , watched the scene in the mirror , while over his shoulders peered Trot , the Scarecrow and the Shaggy Man . 
What they saw was more strange than Glinda's actions . 
The tiger started to spring on the sleeping boy , but suddenly lost its power to move and lay flat upon the ground . 
The gray wolf seemed unable to lift its feet from the ground . 
It pulled first at one leg and then at another , and finding itself strangely confined to the spot began to back and snarl angrily . 
They couldn't hear the barkings and snarls , but they could see the creature's mouth open and its thick lips move . 
Button Bright , however , being but a few feet away from the wolf , heard its cries of rage , which wakened him from his untroubled sleep . 
The boy sat up and looked first at the tiger and then at the wolf . 
Then he deliberately kicked the tiger's head with his foot and catching up a fallen branch of a tree he went to the wolf and gave it a good whacking . 
Both the beasts were furious at such treatment but could not resent it . 
Button Bright now threw down the stick and with his hands in his pockets wandered carelessly away . 
Now , said Glinda , let the Glass Cat run and find him . 
He is in that direction , pointing the way , but how far off I do not know . 
Make haste and lead him back to us as quickly as you can . 
The Wizard handed the mirror back to Glinda , for the woodland scene had now faded from the glass . 
Then those who cared to rest sat down to await Button Bright's coming . 
It was not long before be appeared through the trees and as he rejoined his friends he said in a peevish tone Don't ever send that Glass Cat to find me again . 
She was very impolite and , if we didn't all know that she had no manners , I'd say she insulted me . 
Glinda turned upon the boy sternly . 
You have caused all of us much anxiety and annoyance , said she . 
Only my magic saved you from destruction . 
I forbid you to get lost again . 
Of course , he answered . 
It won't be my fault if I get lost again but it wasn't my fault this time . 
The four Skeezers were all young men and their leader was Ervic . 
Coo ee oh had taken them with her in the boat to assist her if she captured the Flathead chief , as she hoped to do by means of her silver rope . 
They knew nothing about the witchcraft that moved the submarine and so , when left floating upon the lake , were at a loss what to do . 
The submarine could not be submerged by them or made to return to the sunken island . 
There were neither oars nor sails in the boat , which was not anchored but drifted quietly upon the surface of the lake . 
The Diamond Swan had no further thought or care for her people . 
She had sailed over to the other side of the lake and all the calls and pleadings of Ervic and his companions were unheeded by the vain bird . 
As there was nothing else for them to do , they sat quietly in their boat and waited as patiently as they could for someone to come to their aid . 
The Flatheads had refused to help them and had gone back to their mountain . 
All the Skeezers were imprisoned in the Great Dome and could not help even themselves . 
I'm hungry , said Ervic . 
I'm cold , said another Skeezer . 
I'm tired , said a third . 
I'm afraid , said the last one of them . 
But it did them no good to complain . 
Night fell and the moon rose and cast a silvery sheen over the surface of the water . 
Go to sleep , said Ervic to his companions . 
I'll stay awake and watch , for we may be rescued in some unexpected way . 
So the other three laid themselves down in the bottom of the boat and were soon fast asleep . 
Suddenly a tiny goldfish popped its head above the surface of the lake , not more than a foot from his eyes . 
A silverfish then raised its head beside that of the goldfish , and a moment later a bronzefish lifted its head beside the others . 
The three fish , all in a row , looked earnestly with their round , bright eyes into the astonished eyes of Ervic the Skeezer . 
We are the three Adepts whom Queen Coo ee oh betrayed and wickedly transformed , said the goldfish , its voice low and soft but distinctly heard in the stillness of the night . 
I know of our Queen's treacherous deed , replied Ervic , and I am sorry for your misfortune . 
Have you been in the lake ever since ? Yes , was the reply . 
I I hope you are well and comfortable , stammered Ervic , not knowing what else to say . 
We knew that some day Ooo ee oh would meet with the fate she so richly deserves , declared the bronzefish . 
We have waited and watched for this time . 
Well , said Ervic , you can depend on my doing the best I can . 
But I'm no witch , nor magician , you must know . 
All we ask is that you obey our instructions , returned the silverfish . 
We know that you are honest and that you served Coo ee oh only because you were obliged to in order to escape her anger . 
Do as we command and all will be well . 
I promise ! exclaimed the young man . 
Tell me what I am to do first . 
You will find in the bottom of your boat the silver cord which dropped from Coo ee oh's hand when she was transformed , said the goldfish . 
Tie one end of that cord to the bow of your boat and drop the other end to us in the water . 
Together we will pull your boat to the shore . 
At first the boat did not move at all , although the fishes pulled with all their strength . 
But presently the strain began to tell . 
Very slowly the boat crept toward the shore , gaining more speed at every moment . 
Cleanse it thoroughly in the water of the lake , for it has had poison in it . 
When it is cleaned , fill it with fresh water and hold it over the side of the boat , so that we three may swim into the kettle . 
We will then instruct you further . 
Do you wish me to catch you , then ? asked Ervic in surprise . 
Yes , was the reply . 
So Ervic jumped out of the boat and found the copper kettle . 
Ervic's comrades were still sound asleep and knew nothing of the three fishes or what strange happenings were taking place about them . 
Ervic dipped the kettle in the lake , holding fast to the handle until it was under water . 
The gold and silver and bronze fishes promptly swam into the kettle . 
Take one hundred steps to the east , along the edge of the lake , and then you will see a path leading through the meadows , up hill and down dale . 
Follow the path until you come to a cottage which is painted a purple color with white trimmings . 
When you stop at the gate of this cottage we will tell you what to do next . 
Be careful , above all , not to stumble and spill the water from the kettle , or you would destroy us and all you have done would be in vain . 
The goldfish issued these commands and Ervic promised to be careful and started to obey . 
He left his sleeping comrades in the boat , stepping cautiously over their bodies , and on reaching the shore took exactly one hundred steps to the east . 
Then he looked for the path and the moonlight was so bright that he easily discovered it , although it was hidden from view by tall weeds until one came full upon it . 
This path was very narrow and did not seem to be much used , but it was quite distinct and Ervic had no difficulty in following it . 
He walked through a broad meadow , covered with tall grass and weeds , up a hill and down into a valley and then up another hill and down again . 
It seemed to Ervic that he had walked miles and miles . 
Indeed the moon sank low and day was beginning to dawn when finally he discovered by the roadside a pretty little cottage , painted purple with white trimmings . 
It was a lonely place no other buildings were anywhere about and the ground was not tilled at all . 
No farmer lived here , that was certain . 
Who would care to dwell in such an isolated place ? But Ervic did not bother his head long with such questions . 
They halted awhile to decide whether they should call upon the Supreme Dictator first , or go on to the Lake of the Skeezers . 
If we go to the mountain , said the Wizard , we may get into trouble with that wicked Su dic , and then we would be delayed in rescuing Ozma and Dorothy . 
So I think our best plan will be to go to the Skeezer Country , raise the sunken island and save our friends and the imprisoned Skeezers . 
Afterward we can visit the mountain and punish the cruel magician of the Flatheads . 
That is sensible , approved the Shaggy Man . 
I quite agree with you . 
Pretty soon they came to the palms . 
These were set closely together , the branches , which came quite to the ground , being so tightly interlaced that even the Glass Cat could scarcely find a place to squeeze through . 
The path which the Flatheads used was some distance away . 
Here's a job for the Tin Woodman , said the Scarecrow . 
Of course every eye was at first fixed upon this dome , where Ozma and Dorothy and the Skeezers were still fast prisoners . 
That , said Glinda , is the transformation of Queen Coo ce oh , the haughty and wicked witch who betrayed the three Adepts at Magic and treated her people like slaves . 
She's wonderfully beautiful now , remarked the Frogman . 
It doesn't seem like much of a punishment , said Trot . 
The Flathead Su dic ought to have made her a toad . 
I am sure Coo ee oh is punished , said Glinda , for she has lost all her magic power and her grand palace and can no longer misrule the poor Skeezers . 
Let us call to her , and hear what she has to say , proposed the Wizard . 
So Glinda beckoned the Diamond Swan , which swam gracefully to a position near them . 
Admire me ! Handsome is as handsome does , replied the Scarecrow . 
Are your deeds lovely , Coo ce oh ? Deeds ? What deeds can a swan do but swim around and give pleasure to all beholders ? said the sparkling bird . 
Have you forgotten your former life ? Have you forgotten your magic and witchcraft ? inquired the Wizard . 
Magic witchcraft ? Pshaw , who cares for such silly things ? retorted Coo ee oh . 
As for my past life , it seems like an unpleasant dream . 
I wouldn't go back to it if I could . 
Tell us that and I'll give you a string of pearls to wear around your neck and add to your beauty . 
Nothing can add to my beauty , for I'm the most beautiful creature anywhere in the whole world . 
But how can we raise the island ? I don't know and I don't care . 
If ever I knew I've forgotten , and I'm glad of it , was the response . 
Just watch me circle around and see me glitter ! It's no use , said Button Bright the old Swan is too much in love with herself to think of anything else . 
That's a fact , agreed Betsy with a sigh but we've got to get Ozma and Dorothy out of that lake , somehow or other . 
And we must do it in our own way , added the Scarecrow . 
If it were just an ordinary sunken island , said the powerful sorceress , there would be several ways by which I might bring it to the surface again . 
I do not despair in the least , but it will require some deep study to solve this difficult problem . 
If we could find those fishes and return them to their former shapes , they could doubtless tell us what to do to bring the sunken island to the surface . 
But that act had been recorded in the Book after Glinda had set out on this journey , so it was all unknown to her . 
I think I see a boat yonder on the shore , said Ojo the Munchkin boy , pointing to a place around the edge of the lake . 
If we could get that boat and row all over the lake , calling to the magic fishes , we might be able to find them . 
Let us go to the boat , said the Wizard . 
They walked around the lake to where the boat was stranded upon the beach , but found it empty . 
After I have given a little thought to the matter , the boat will take us wherever we desire to go . 
Not all of us , returned the Wizard , for it won't hold so many . 
It will not be necessary to use the boat for that purpose , replied Glinda . 
Wherever in the lake the enchanted fishes may be , they will answer to my call . 
What I am trying to discover is how the boat came to be on this shore , while the island on which it belongs is under water yonder . 
Who are you , and where did you come from ? inquired the Wizard . 
We are Skeezers , answered one of them , and our home is on the Magic Isle of the Lake . 
If you belong on the island , why are you here ? demanded Glinda . 
Then followed the account of how the Su dic had transformed Coo ee oh into a swan , after which she had forgotten all the witchcraft she ever knew . 
That was all they knew . 
They had searched in vain for three days for Ervic . 
Being questioned by Glinda and the Wizard , they told all they knew about Ozma and Dorothy and declared the two girls were still in the village under the Great Dome . 
They were quite safe and would be well cared for by Lady Aurex , now that the Queen who opposed them was out of the way . 
But I cannot see that our going to the sunken island would enable our friends to escape . 
We would only Join them as prisoners . 
Not so , friend Wizard , replied Glinda . 
And leave all of our people still imprisoned ? asked one of the Skeezers reproachfully . 
By making several trips in the boat , Glinda could fetch all your people to the shore , replied the Wizard . 
But what could they do then ? inquired another Skeezer . 
They would have no homes and no place to go , and would be at the mercy of their enemies , the Flatheads . 
That is true , said Glinda the Good . 
I believe the best plan will be to summon the three fishes and learn from them how to raise the island . 
The little Wizard seemed to think that this was rather a forlorn hope . 
I think I can find a way . 
All of Ozma's counsellors applauded this sentiment , for they knew well the powers of the Sorceress . 
Very well , agreed the Wizard . 
Summon them , most noble Glinda . 
Do not be afraid of anything you see , for however you seem to be threatened with dangers , nothing can harm you . 
What her real form may be we do not know . 
This strange creature cannot be bribed with treasure , or coaxed through friendship , or won by pity . 
She has never assisted anyone , or done wrong to anyone , that we know of . 
All her wonderful powers are used for her own selfish amusement . 
She will order you out of the house but you must refuse to go . 
Remain and watch Reera closely and try to see what she uses to accomplish her transformations . 
If you can discover the secret whisper it to us and we will then tell you what to do next . 
That sounds easy , returned Ervic , who had listened carefully . 
You may be sure that nothing will harm you , so you must not be frightened at anything you see or hear . 
His hand trembled as he raised the latch , but he was resolved to obey his instructions . 
He pushed the door open , took three strides into the middle of the one room the cottage contained , and then stood still and looked around him . 
The sights that met his gaze were enough to frighten anyone who had not been properly warned . 
On the floor just before Ervic lay a great crocodile , its red eyes gleaming wickedly and its wide open mouth displaying rows of sharp teeth . 
But the most startling thing was a huge gray ape which sat upon a bench and knitted . 
It wore a lace cap , such as old ladies wear , and a little apron of lace , but no other clothing . 
Its eyes were bright and looked as if coals were burning in them . 
The ape moved as naturally as an ordinary person might , and on Ervic's entrance stopped knitting and raised its head to look at him . 
Get out ! cried a sharp voice , seeming to come from the ape's mouth . 
Ervic saw another bench , empty , just beyond him , so he stepped over the crocodile , sat down upon the bench and carefully placed the kettle beside him . 
Get out ! again cried the voice . 
No , said he , I'm going to stay . 
The spiders left their four corners , dropped to the floor and made a rush toward the young Skeezer , circling around his legs with their pinchers extended . 
Ervic paid no attention to them . 
An enormous black rat ran up Ervic's body , passed around his shoulders and uttered piercing squeals in his ears , but he did not wince . 
The crocodile raised its tail and , swinging around , swept Ervic off the bench with a powerful blow . 
But the Skeezer managed to save the kettle from upsetting and he got up , shook off the horned toads that were crawling over him and resumed his seat on the bench . 
All the creatures , after this first attack , remained motionless , as if awaiting orders . 
The old gray ape knitted on , not looking toward Ervic now , and the young Skeezer stolidly kept his seat . 
He expected something else to happen , but nothing did . 
A full hour passed and Ervic was growing nervous . 
What do you want ? the ape asked at last . 
You may have that ! retorted the ape , and at this all the strange creatures in the room broke into a chorus of cackling laughter . 
Do you know who I am ? questioned the ape . 
You must be Reera the Red the Yookoohoo , Ervic answered . 
Knowing so much , you must also know that I do not like strangers . 
Your presence here in my home annoys me . 
Do you not fear my anger ? No , said the young man . 
Do you intend to obey me , and leave this house ? No , replied Ervic , just as quietly as the Yookoohoo had spoken . 
The ape knitted for a long time before resuming the conversation . 
Curiosity , it said , has led to many a man's undoing . 
I suppose in some way you have learned that I do tricks of magic , and so through curiosity you have come here . 
You may have been told that I do not injure anyone , so you are bold enough to disobey my commands to go away . 
You imagine that you may witness some of the rites of witchcraft , and that they may amuse you . 
I am told that you work magic only for your own amusement . 
That seems to me very selfish . 
I'm told that you are the only real Yookoohoo in all Oz . 
Why don't you amuse others as well as yourself ? What right have you to question my actions ? None at all . 
And you say you are not here to demand any favors of me ? For myself I want nothing from you . 
You are wise in that . 
That doesn't worry me , declared Ervic . 
But you are curious ? You hope to witness some of my magic transformations ? If you wish to perform any magic , go ahead , said Ervic . 
It may interest me and it may not . 
If you'd rather go on with your knitting , it's all the same to me . 
I am in no hurry at all . 
This may have puzzled Red Reera , but the face beneath the lace cap could show no expression , being covered with hair . 
This attitude practically disarmed the witch and she began to regard the Skeezer in a more friendly way . 
She knitted for some time , seemingly in deep thought , and then she arose and walked to a big cupboard that stood against the wall of the room . 
When the cupboard door was opened Ervic could see a lot of drawers inside , and into one of these drawers the second from the bottom Reera thrust a hairy hand . 
Do you like me better this way ? Reera inquired with a smile . 
You look better , he said calmly , but I'm not sure I like you any better . 
She laughed , saying During the heat of the day I like to be an ape , for an ape doesn't wear any clothes to speak of . 
But if one has gentlemen callers it is proper to dress up . 
Ervic noticed her right hand was closed , as if she held something in it . 
She shut the cupboard door , bent over the crocodile and in a moment the creature had changed to a red wolf . 
It was not pretty even now , and the wolf crouched beside its mistress as a dog might have done . 
Its teeth looked as dangerous as had those of the crocodile . 
Next the Yookoohoo went about touching all the lizards and toads , and at her touch they became kittens . 
The rats she changed into chipmunks . 
Now the only horrid creatures remaining were the four great spiders , which hid themselves behind their thick webs . 
There ! Reera cried , now my cottage presents a more comfortable appearance . 
I love the toads and lizards and rats , because most people hate them , but I would tire of them if they always remained the same . 
Sometimes I change their forms a dozen times a day . 
You are clever , said Ervic . 
I did not hear you utter any incantations or magic words . 
All you did was to touch the creatures . 
Oh , do you think so ? she replied . 
Well , touch them yourself , if you like , and see if you can change their forms . 
No , said the Skeezer , I don't understand magic and if I did I would not try to imitate your skill . 
You are a wonderful Yookoohoo , while I am only a common Skeezer . 
This confession seemed to please Reera , who liked to have her witchcraft appreciated . 
Will you go away now ? she asked . 
I prefer to be alone . 
I prefer to stay here , said Ervic . 
In another person's home , where you are not wanted ? Yes . 
Is not your curiosity yet satisfied ? demanded Reera , with a smile . 
Is there anything else you can do ? Many things . 
But why should I exhibit my powers to a stranger ? I can think of no reason at all , he replied . 
She looked at him curiously . 
You want no power for yourself , you say , and you're too stupid to be able to steal my secrets . 
This isn't a pretty cottage , while outside are sunshine , broad prairies and beautiful wildflowers . 
Yet you insist on sitting on that bench and annoying me with your unwelcome presence . 
What have you in that kettle ? Three fishes , he answered readily . 
Where did you get them ? I caught them in the Lake of the Skeezers . 
What do you intend to do with the fishes ? I shall carry them to the home of a friend of mine who has three children . 
The children will love to have the fishes for pets . 
She came over to the bench and looked into the kettle , where the three fishes were swimming quietly in the water . 
They're pretty , said Reera . 
Let me transform them into something else . 
No , objected the Skeezer . 
I love to transform things it's so interesting . 
And I've never transformed any fishes in all my life . 
Let them alone , said Ervic . 
Let them alone ! repeated Ervic . 
You're not a very pleasant visitor , laughed Red Reera . 
People accuse me of being cross and crabbed and unsociable , and they are quite right . 
If you had come here pleading and begging for favors , and half afraid of my Yookoohoo magic , I'd have abused you until you ran away but you're quite different from that . 
You're the unsociable and crabbed and disagreeable one , and so I like you , and bear with your grumpiness . 
It's time for my midday meal are you hungry ? No , said Ervic , although he really desired food . 
Well , I am , Reera declared and clapped her hands together . 
Instantly a table appeared , spread with linen and bearing dishes of various foods , some smoking hot . 
The wolf squatted at her right hand and the kittens and chipmunks gathered at her left . 
Come , Stranger , sit down and eat , she called cheerfully , and while we're eating let us decide into what forms we shall change your fishes . 
They're all right as they are , asserted Ervic , drawing up his bench to the table . 
The fishes are beauties one gold , one silver and one bronze . 
Nothing that has life is more lovely than a beautiful fish . 
What ! Am I not more lovely ? Reera asked , smiling at his serious face . 
I don't object to you for a Yookoohoo , you know , he said , helping himself to the food and eating with good appetite . 
If you transformed my three fish into three girls girls who would be Adepts at Magic , you know they might please me as well as the fish do . 
You won't do that of course , because you can't , with all your skill . 
And , should you be able to do so , I fear my troubles would be more than I could bear . 
They would not consent to be my slaves especially if they were Adepts at Magic and so they would command me to obey them . 
No , Mistress Reeraq let us not transform the fishes at all . 
The Skeezer had put his case with remarkable cleverness . 
He realized that if he appeared anxious for such a transformation the Yookoohoo would not perform it , yet he had skillfully suggested that they be made Adepts at Magic . 
I wish you'd consent to my transforming your fishes , she said , as she took up her knitting again . 
The Skeezer made no reply . 
He thought it unwise to hurry matters . 
All during the afternoon they sat silent . 
Once Reera went to her cupboard and after thrusting her hand into the same drawer as before , touched the wolf and transformed it into a bird with gorgeous colored feathers . 
This bird was larger than a parrot and of a somewhat different form , but Ervic had never seen one like it before . 
Sing ! said Reera to the bird , which had perched itself on a big wooden peg as if it had been in the cottage before and knew just what to do . 
And the bird sang jolly , rollicking songs with words to them just as a person who had been carefully trained might do . 
The songs were entertaining and Ervic enjoyed listening to them . 
In an hour or so the bird stopped singing , tucked its head under its wing and went to sleep . 
Reera continued knitting but seemed thoughtful . 
Now Ervic had marked this cupboard drawer well and had concluded that Reera took something from it which enabled her to perform her transformations . 
Indeed , he had firmly resolved to carry out this plan when the Yookoohoo put down her knitting and walked toward the door . 
So Reera went out and closed the cottage door . 
As soon as she was gone , Ervic rose and tiptoed to the cupboard . 
Take care ! Take care ! cried several voices , coming from the kittens and chipmunks . 
You could not succeed by getting that magic powder , for only the Yookoohoo knows how to use it . 
You are acting wisely and in the most effective manner . 
We did not know you were so intelligent , or that Reera could be so easily deceived by you . 
Continue as you have begun and try to persuade her to transform us . 
But insist that we be given the forms of girls . 
The goldfish ducked its head down just as Reera re entered the cottage . 
She saw Ervic bent over the kettle , so she came and joined him . 
Can your fishes talk ? she asked . 
Sometimes , he replied , for all fishes in the Land of Oz know how to speak . 
Just now they were asking me for some bread . 
Well , they can have some bread , said Reera . 
Why not let me transform them ? Well , said Ervic , as if hesitating , ask the fishes . 
If they consent , why why , then , I'll think it over . 
Reera bent over the kettle and asked Can you hear me , little fishes ? All three popped their heads above water . 
We can hear you , said the bronzefish . 
I want to give you other forms , such as rabbits , or turtles or girls , or something but your master , the surly Skeezer , does not wish me to . 
However , he has agreed to the plan if you will consent . 
We'd like to be girls , said the silverfish . 
No , no ! exclaimed Ervic . 
If you promise to make us three beautiful girls , we will consent , said the goldfish . 
No , no ! exclaimed Ervic again . 
Also make us Adepts at Magic , added the bronzefish . 
I don't know exactly what that means , replied Reera musingly , but as no Adept at Magic is as powerful as Yookoohoo , I'll add that to the transformation . 
We won't try to harm you , or to interfere with your magic in any way , promised the goldfish . 
On the contrary , we will be your friends . 
Will you agree to go away and leave me alone in my cottage , whenever I command you to do so ? asked Reera . 
We promise that , cried the three fishes . 
Don't do it ! Don't consent to the transformation , urged Ervic . 
They have already consented , said the Yookoohoo , laughing in his face , and you have promised me to abide by their decision . 
So , friend Skeezer , I shall perform the transformation whether you like it or not . 
Ervic seated himself on the bench again , a deep scowl on his face but joy in his heart . 
Reera moved over to the cupboard , took something from the drawer and returned to the copper kettle . 
The one who had been a silverfish had snow white hair of the finest texture and deep brown eyes . 
The hair contrasted exquisitely with her pink cheeks and ruby red lips , nor did it make her look a day older than her two companions . 
As soon as they secured these girlish shapes , all three bowed low to the Yookoohoo and said We thank you , Reera . 
Then they bowed to the Skeezer and said We thank you , Ervic . 
Very good ! cried the Yookoohoo , examining her work with critical approval . 
You are much better and more interesting than fishes , and this ungracious Skeezer would scarcely allow me to do the transformations . 
You surely have nothing to thank him for . 
But now let us dine in honor of the occasion . 
She clapped her hands together and again a table loaded with food appeared in the cottage . 
It was a longer table , this time , and places were set for the three Adepts as well as for Reera and Ervic . 
So that I may appear properly at the banquet table I intend , in honor of this occasion , to take upon myself my natural shape . 
Scarcely had she finished this speech when Reera transformed herself into a young woman fully as lovely as the three Adepts . 
She was not quite so tall as they , but her form was more rounded and more handsomely clothed , with a wonderful jeweled girdle and a necklace of shining pearls . 
Her hair was a bright auburn red , and her eyes large and dark . 
Do you claim this is your natural form ? asked Ervic of the Yookoohoo . 
This is the only form I am really entitled to wear . 
But I seldom assume it because there is no one here to admire or appreciate it and I get tired admiring it myself . 
I see now why you are named Reera the Red , remarked Ervic . 
It is on account of my red hair , she explained smiling . 
I do not care for red hair myself , which is one reason I usually wear other forms . 
Gold and silver and brown hair are equally handsome . 
The three Adepts frankly told Reera who they were . 
how they became fishes and how they had planned secretly to induce the Yookoohoo to transform them . 
They admitted that they had feared , had they asked her to help , that she would have refused them . 
You were quite right , returned the Yookoohoo . 
But you must promise me that after you go away you will never come here again , nor tell anyone what I have done for you . 
The three Adepts and Ervic thanked the Yookoohoo warmly . 
They promised to remember her wish that they should not come to her cottage again and so , with a good bye , took their departure . 
She kept with her only the little Wizard of Oz , who was her pupil and knew how to assist her in her magic rites . 
Have you a skeropythrope with you ? Yes , I always carry one in my bag , replied the Wizard . 
He opened his black bag of magic tools and took out a brightly polished skeropythrope , which he handed to the Sorceress . 
Glinda had also brought a small wicker bag , containing various requirements of sorcery , and from this she took a parcel of powder and a vial of liquid . 
She poured the liquid into the skeropythrope and added the powder . 
At once the skeropythrope began to sputter and emit sparks of a violet color , which spread in all directions . 
The Sorceress instantly stepped into the middle of the boat and held the instrument so that the sparks fell all around her and covered every bit of the blackened steel boat . 
At the same time Glinda crooned a weird incantation in the language of sorcery , her voice sounding low and musical . 
After a little the violet sparks ceased , and those that had fallen upon the boat had disappeared and left no mark upon its surface . 
The ceremony was ended and Glinda returned the skeropythrope to the Wizard , who put it away in his black bag . 
That ought to do the business all right , he said confidently Let us make a trial and see , she replied . 
So they both entered the boat and seated themselves . 
Speaking in a tone of command the Sorceress said to the boat Carry us across the lake , to the farther shore . 
At once the boat backed off the sandy beach , turned its prow and moved swiftly over the water . 
Very good very good indeed ! cried the Wizard , when the boat slowed up at the shore opposite from that whence they had departed . 
Even Coo ee oh , with all her witchcraft , could do no better . 
There were four glass windows in this covering , one on each side and one on either end , so that the passengers could see exactly where they were going . 
Moving under water more slowly than on the surface , the submarine gradually approached the island and halted with its bow pressed against the huge marble door in the basement under the Dome . 
But what was this magic word ? Neither of them knew . 
I'm afraid , said the Wizard regretfully , that we can't get in , after all . 
Unless your sorcery can discover the word to open the marble door . 
That is probably some word only known to Coo ce oh , replied the Sorceress . 
I may be able to discover what it is , but that will require time . 
Let us go back again to our companions . 
It seems a shame , after we have made the boat obey us , to be balked by just a marble door , grumbled the Wizard . 
Glinda saw them , too , and held the boat close to the Dome while the friends exchanged greetings in pantomime . 
Their voices , unfortunately , could not be heard through the Dome and the water and the side of the boat . 
The two girl prisoners were smiling and in safety , and knowing this Glinda felt she could take all the time necessary in order to effect their final rescue . 
As nothing more could be done just then , Glinda ordered the boat to return to shore and it obeyed readily . 
All the Oz people and the Skeezers at once ran to the boat to ask if they had reached the island , and whether they had seen Ozma and Dorothy . 
The Wizard told them of the obstacle they had met in the way of a marble door , and how Glinda would now undertake to find a magic way to conquer the door . 
All the tents had the Royal Banner of Oz flying from the centerpoles and one big tent , not now occupied , had Ozma's own banner moving in the breeze . 
Betsy and Trot had a tent to themselves , and Button Bright and Ojo had another . 
The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman paired together in one tent and so did Jack Pumpkinhead and the Shaggy Man , Cap'n Bill and Uncle Henry , Tik Tok and Professor Wogglebug . 
Glinda had the most splendid tent of all , except that reserved for Ozma , while the Wizard had a little one of his own . 
She also made many magical experiments , hoping to discover something that would aid her . 
Yet the morning found the powerful Sorceress still unsuccessful . 
The magic word that guarded the door had probably been invented by Coo ee oh , who had now forgotten it . 
The only way , then , to gain entrance to the sunken island was to break the charm that held the door fast shut . 
If this could be done no magic would be required to open it . 
We shall have to abandon this attempt , I think , said Glinda . 
That is true , returned Glinda , but Ozma's magic is fairy magic , while you are a Wizard and I am a Sorceress . 
My idea therefore is to seek by such magic as we possess to accomplish our object in another way . 
They made the circle of the Dome again in their boat , and once more saw Ozma and Dorothy through their windows and exchanged signals with the two imprisoned girls . 
Ozma realized that her friends were doing all in their power to rescue her and smiled an encouragement to their efforts . 
Dorothy seemed a little anxious but was trying to be as brave as her companion . 
Three were young women of stately presence , very beautifully dressed , who moved with remarkable grace . 
They were followed at a little distance by a good looking young Skeezer . 
The Wizard saw at a glance that these people might be very important , so he advanced to meet them . 
The three maidens received him graciously and the one with the golden hair said I believe you are the famous Wizard of Oz , of whom I have often heard . 
We are seeking Glinda , the Sorceress , and perhaps you can lead us to her . 
I can , and will , right gladly , answered the Wizard . 
The little Wizard was puzzled as to the identity of the three lovely visitors but he gave no sign that might embarrass them . 
He understood they did not wish to be questioned , and so he made no remarks as he led the way to Glinda's tent . 
With a courtly bow the Wizard ushered the three visitors into the gracious presence of Glinda , the Good . 
The three knelt an instant before the great Sorceress and then stood upright and waited for her to speak . 
Whoever you may be , said Glinda , I bid you welcome . 
My name is Audah , said one . 
My name is Aurah , said another . 
My name is Aujah , said the third . 
We have heard of Ozma , who is the appointed Ruler of all this great fairyland , but her laws have not reached us , as yet . 
Glinda studied the strange maidens thoughtfully then she said to them Princess Ozma is even now imprisoned in the Skeezer village . 
I am seeking some way to overcome Coo ee oh's magic and raise the isle to the surface again . 
Can you help me do this ? The maidens exchanged glances , and the white haired one replied We do not know but we will try to assist you . 
It seems , continued Glinda musingly , that Coo ee oh derived most of her witchcraft from three Adepts at Magic , who at one time ruled the Flatheads . 
While the Adepts were being entertained by Coo ee oh at a banquet in her palace , she cruelly betrayed them and after transforming them into fishes cast them into the lake . 
If I could find these three fishes and return them to their natural shapes they might know what magic Coo ee oh used to sink the island . 
I was about to go to the shore and call these fishes to me when you arrived . 
So , if you will join me , we will try to find them . 
The maidens exchanged smiles now , and the golden haired one , Audah , said to Glinda It will not be necessary to go to the lake . 
We are the three fishes . 
Then you are the three Adepts at Magic , restored to your proper forms ? We are the three Adepts , admitted Aujah . 
Then , said Glinda , my task is half accomplished . 
Glinda looked at Ervic , who stood modestly behind the Adepts , hat in hand . 
He shall be properly rewarded , she declared , for in helping you he has helped us all , and perhaps saved his people from being imprisoned forever in the sunken isle . 
The Sorceress now asked her guests to seat themselves and a long talk followed , in which the Wizard of Oz shared . 
She may have added to these things , but they were the foundation of all her work . 
What means do you suggest for our getting into the Dome ? inquired Glinda . 
The three Adepts hesitated to reply , for they had not yet considered what could be done to reach the inside of the Great Dome . 
While they were in deep thought , and Glinda and the Wizard were quietly awaiting their suggestions , into the tent rushed Trot and Betsy , dragging between them the Patchwork Girl . 
Oh , Glinda , cried Trot , Scraps has thought of a way to rescue Ozma and Dorothy and all of the Skeezers . 
The three Adepts could not avoid laughing merrily , for not only were they amused by the queer form of the Patchwork Girl , but Trot's enthusiastic speech struck them as really funny . 
But Glinda , smiling indulgently at the earnest faces turned toward her , patted the children's heads and said Scraps is very clever . 
Tell us what she has thought of , my dear . 
You could give them a little , teeny pond to swim in , and they'd be just as happy as they are as fishes . 
No indeed ! replied the Wizard , severely . 
It is wicked to transform any living creatures without their consent , and the lake is the home of the fishes and belongs to them . 
All right , said Scraps , making a face at him I don't care . 
It's too bad , sighed Trot , for I thought we'd struck a splendid idea . 
So you did , declared Glinda , her face now grave and thoughtful . 
There is something in the Patchwork Girl's idea that may be of real value to us . 
I think so , too , agreed the golden haired Adept . 
The top of the Great Dome is only a few feet below the surface of the water . 
And there would be plenty of water left for the fishes to swim in , added the white haired maiden . 
If we succeed in raising the island we could fill up the lake again , suggested the brown haired Adept . 
I believe , said the Wizard , rubbing his hands together in delight , that the Patchwork Girl has shown us the way to success . 
They were especially pleased with the lively Patchwork Girl and loved to watch her antics . 
The only thing that marred their joy was the thought that their beloved Ozma and dear little Dorothy were yet confined in the Great Dome of the Sunken island . 
All the others came to watch them , but stood at a respectful distance in the background . 
At the right of the Sorceress stood Audah and Aurah , while at the left stood the Wizard and Aujah . 
Together they stretched their arms over the water's edge and in unison the five chanted a rhythmic incantation . 
Before long the highest point of the dome appeared above the water . 
Gradually the water fell , making the dome appear to rise . 
When it was three or four feet above the surface Glinda gave the signal to stop , for their work had been accomplished . 
The blackened submarine was now entirely out of water , but Uncle Henry and Cap'n Bill managed to push it into the lake . 
There's still plenty of water for the fish to swim in , observed the Wizard as they rode along . 
They might like more but I'm sure they can get along until we have raised the island and can fill up the lake again . 
Stout frames of steel supported the glass of the Dome , and around one of these frames the Wizard tied the end of a rope . 
I'll go down first , said he , for while I'm not as spry as Cap'n Bill I'm sure I can manage it easily . 
Are you sure the rope is long enough to reach the bottom ? Quite sure , replied the Sorceress . 
So the Wizard let down the rope and climbing through the opening lowered himself down , hand over hand , clinging to the rope with his legs and feet . 
Several Skeezers held fast to the rope's end to steady it and the Wizard reached the ground in safety . 
He hugged first Ozma and then Dorothy , while all the Skeezers cheered as loud as they could . 
In this way the Sorceress reached the ground quite comfortably and the three Adepts and Ervic soon followed her . 
The Skeezers quickly recognized the three Adepts at Magic , whom they had learned to respect before their wicked Queen betrayed them , and welcomed them as friends . 
All the inhabitants of the village had been greatly frightened by their imprisonment under water , but now realized that an attempt was to be made to rescue them . 
Glinda , the Wizard and the Adepts followed Ozma and Dorothy into the palace , and they asked Lady Aurex and Ervic to join them . 
I've tried every way in my power , said Ozma , but Coo ee oh used a very unusual sort of magic which I do not understand . 
She seems to have prepared her witchcraft in such a way that a spoken word is necessary to accomplish her designs , and these spoken words are known only to herself . 
That is a method we taught her , declared Aurah the Adept . 
I can do no more , Glinda , continued Ozma , so I wish you would try what your sorcery can accomplish . 
First , then , said Glinda , let us visit the basement of the island , which I am told is underneath the village . 
A flight of marble stairs led from one of Coo ee oh's private rooms down to the basement , but when the party arrived all were puzzled by what they saw . 
The three Adepts were carefully examining the mass of wheels , and soon the golden haired one said These wheels do not control the island at all . 
Each boat is kept in a little room with two doors , one to the basement room where we are now and the other letting into the lake . 
But how could she expect to get back again ? asked the Wizard . 
Why the boat would enter the room filled with water and after the outer door was closed a word of command started a pump which pumped all the water from the room . 
Then the boat would open and Coo ee oh could enter the basement . 
I see , said the Wizard . 
It is a clever contrivance , but won't work unless one knows the magic words . 
Another part of this machinery , explained the white haired Adept , is used to extend the bridge from the island to the mainland . 
The same magic command would make the bridge return to its former position . 
Of course the bridge could not be used unless the island was on the surface of the water . 
But how do you suppose Coo ee oh managed to sink the island , and make it rise again ? inquired Glinda . 
This the Adepts could not yet explain . 
They all carefully inspected this room , taking care to examine every article they came across . 
The island , said Glinda thoughtfully , rests on a base of solid marble . 
When it is submerged , as it is now , the base of the island is upon the bottom of the lake . 
What puzzles me is how such a great weight can be lifted and suspended in the water , even by magic . 
I noticed in the basement a big steel pillar that passed through the floor and extended upward to this palace . 
Perhaps the end of it is concealed in this very room . 
I've found the end of the steel pillar . 
It's just here , announced the Wizard , pointing to one side of the room where a great basin of polished steel seemed to have been set upon the floor . 
They all gathered around , and Ozma said Yes , I am quite sure that is the upper end of the pillar that supports the island . 
I noticed it when I first came here . 
It has been hollowed out , you see , and something has been burned in the basin , for the fire has left its marks . 
I wondered what was under the great basin and got several of the Skeezers to come up here and try to lift it for me . 
They were strong men , but could not move it at all . 
It seems to me , said Audah the Adept , that we have discovered the manner in which Coo ee oh raised the island . 
She would burn some sort of magic powder in the basin , utter the magic word , and the pillar would lengthen out and lift the island with it . 
What's this ? asked Dorothy , who had been searching around with the others , and now noticed a slight hollow in the wall , near to where the steel basin stood . 
As she spoke Dorothy pushed her thumb into the hollow and instantly a small drawer popped out from the wall . 
The three Adepts , Glinda and the Wizard sprang forward and peered into the drawer . 
It was half filled with a grayish powder , the tiny grains of which constantly moved as if impelled by some living force . 
It may be some kind of radium , said the Wizard . 
No , replied Glinda , it is more wonderful than even radium , for I recognize it as a rare mineral powder called Gaulau by the sorcerers . 
I wonder how Coo ee oh discovered it and where she obtained it . 
There is no doubt , said Aujah the Adept , that this is the magic powder Coo ee oh burned in the basin . 
If only we knew the magic word , I am quite sure we could raise the island . 
How can we discover the magic word ? asked Ozma , turning to Glinda as she spoke . 
That we must now seriously consider , answered the Sorceress . 
So all of them sat down in the Room of Magic and began to think . 
It was so still that after a while Dorothy grew nervous . 
And Coo ee oh's name is made up of just three words . 
One is 'Coo , and one is 'ee , and one is 'oh . 
The Wizard frowned but Glinda looked wonderingly at the young girl and Ozma cried out A good thought , Dorothy dear ! You may have solved our problem . 
I believe it is worth a trial , agreed Glinda . 
It would be quite natural for Coo ee oh to divide her name into three magic syllables , and Dorothy's suggestion seems like an inspiration . 
The three Adepts also approved the trial but the brown haired one said We must be careful not to use the wrong word , and send the bridge out under water . 
The main thing , if Dorothy's idea is correct , is to hit upon the one word that moves the island . 
Let us experiment , suggested the Wizard . 
In the drawer with the moving gray powder was a tiny golden cup , which they thought was used for measuring . 
Glinda filled this cup with the powder and carefully poured it into the shallow basin , which was the top of the great steel pillar supporting the island . 
Then Aurah the Adept lighted a taper and touched it to the powder , which instantly glowed fiery red and tumbled about the basin with astonishing energy . 
While the grains of powder still glowed red the Sorceress bent over it and said in a voice of command Coo ! They waited motionless to see what would happen . 
There was a grating noise and a whirl of machinery , but the island did not move a particle . 
Dorothy rushed to the window , which overlooked the glass side of the dome . 
The boats ! she exclaimed . 
The boats are all loose an' sailing under water . 
We've made a mistake , said the Wizard gloomily . 
But it's one which shows we are on the right track , declared Aujah the Adept . 
We know now that Coo ee oh used the syllables of her name for the magic words . 
If 'Coo' sends out the boats , it is probable that ee' works the bridge , suggested Ozma . 
So the last part of the name may raise the island . 
Let us try that next then , proposed the Wizard . 
He scraped the embers of the burned powder out of the basin and Glinda again filled the golden cup from the drawer and placed it on top the steel pillar . 
Why , we're way above the lake now ! exclaimed Dorothy from the window , when at last the island ceased to move . 
That is because we lowered the level of the water , explained Glinda . 
They could hear the Skeezers cheering lustily in the streets of the village as they realized that they were saved . 
Come , said Ozma eagerly , let us go down and join the people . 
Not just yet , returned Glinda , a happy smile upon her lovely face , for she was overjoyed at their success . 
First let us extend the bridge to the mainland , where our friends from the Emerald City are waiting . 
Now , said Glinda , we can go up and receive the congratulations of the Skeezers and of our friends of the Rescue Expedition . 
Across the water , on the shore of the lake , the Patchwork Girl was waving them a welcome . 
Chapter Twenty Four Glinda's Triumph Of course all those who had joined Glinda's expedition at once crossed the bridge to the island , where they were warmly welcomed by the Skeezers . 
In return she agreed to protect them from all future harm and declared they would no longer be subjected to cruelty and abuse . 
For her Prime Minister the Queen selected Ervic , for the three Adepts had told of his good judgment , faithfulness and cleverness , and all the Skeezers approved the appointment . 
When evening came Ozma ordered a great feast prepared , to which every Skeezer was invited . 
The village was beautifully decorated and brilliantly lighted and there was music and dancing until a late hour to celebrate the liberation of the people . 
For the Skeezers had been freed , not only from the water of the lake but from the cruelty of their former Queen . 
He is liable to come here at any time and try to annoy us , and my Skeezers are peaceful folks and unable to fight the wild and wilful Flatheads . 
Do not worry , returned Ozma , reassuringly . 
We intend to stop on our way at the Flatheads' Enchanted Mountain and punish the Su dic for his misdeeds . 
Glinda had been told all about the curious Flatheads and she had consulted with the Wizard and formed a plan to render them more intelligent and agreeable . 
He realized that his power would soon be gone and yet he determined to fight to the last . 
The three Adepts assured the excited Flatheads that they had nothing to fear . 
After this easy conquest of the Su dic , Glinda told the Adepts of her plan , which had already been approved by Ozma of Oz , and they joyfully agreed to it . 
So , during the next few days , the great Sorceress transformed , in a way , every Flathead on the mountain . 
When all had been treated in this manner there were no more Flatheads at all , and the Adepts decided to name their people Mountaineers . 
One good result of Glinda's sorcery was that no one could now be deprived of the brains that belonged to him and each person had exactly the share he was entitled to . 
These things being accomplished in a satisfactory manner , Princess Ozma and her people bade farewell to the three Adepts and departed for the Emerald City , well pleased with their interesting adventures . 
They returned by the road over which Ozma and Dorothy had come , stopping to get the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon where they had left them . 
Which proves that it is always wise to do one's duty , however unpleasant that duty may seem to be . 
