The Old Curiosity Shop By Charles Dickens CHAPTER Night is generally my time for walking . 
But my present purpose is not to expatiate upon my walks . 
It is a very long way from here , said I , 'my child . 
'I know that , sir , she replied timidly . 
'I am afraid it is a very long way , for I came from there to night . 
'Alone ? said I , in some surprise . 
'Oh , yes , I don't mind that , but I am a little frightened now , for I had lost my road . 
'Come , said I , 'I'll take you there . 
seemed to increase her confidence at every repetition . 
Though more scantily attired than she might have been she was dressed with perfect neatness , and betrayed no marks of poverty or neglect . 
'Who has sent you so far by yourself ? said I. 'Someone who is very kind to me , sir . 
'And what have you been doing ? 'That , I must not tell , said the child firmly . 
This was said with no appearance of cunning or deceit , but with an unsuspicious frankness that bore the impress of truth . 
While we were thus engaged , I revolved in my mind a hundred different explanations of the riddle and rejected them every one . 
I really felt ashamed to take advantage of the ingenuousness or grateful feeling of the child for the purpose of gratifying my curiosity . 
I love these little people and it is not a slight thing when they , who are so fresh from God , love us . 
As I had felt pleased at first by her confidence I determined to deserve it , and to do credit to the nature which had prompted her to repose it in me . 
for an answer to our summons . 
Though much altered by age , I fancied I could recognize in his spare and slender form something of that delicate mould which I had noticed in a child . 
Their bright blue eyes were certainly alike , but his face was so deeply furrowed and so very full of care , that here all resemblance ceased . 
There was nothing in the whole collection but was in keeping with himself nothing that looked older or more worn than he . 
As he turned the key in the lock , he surveyed me with some astonishment which was not diminished when he looked from me to my companion . 
The door being opened , the child addressed him as grandfather , and told him the little story of our companionship . 
The old man kissed her , then turning to me and begging me to walk in , I did so . 
The door was closed and locked . 
The child took a candle and tripped into this little room , leaving the old man and me together . 
'I don't think you consider I began . 
I waited for him to speak again , but he rested his chin upon his hand and shaking his head twice or thrice fixed his eyes upon the fire . 
She busied herself immediately in preparing supper , and while she was thus engaged I remarked that the old man took an opportunity of observing me more closely than he had done yet . 
I was surprised to see that all this time everything was done by the child , and that there appeared to be no other persons but ourselves in the house . 
It checks their confidence and simplicity two of the best qualities that Heaven gives them and demands that they share our sorrows before they are capable of entering into our enjoyments . 
'It will never check hers , said the old man looking steadily at me , 'the springs are too deep . 
Besides , the children of the poor know but few pleasures . 
Even the cheap delights of childhood must be bought and paid for . 
'But forgive me for saying this you are surely not so very poor' said I. 'She is not my child , sir , returned the old man . 
'Her mother was , and she was poor . 
Don't you think ill of me because I use her help . 
She gives it cheerfully as you see , and it would break her heart if she knew that I suffered anybody else to do for me what her little hands could undertake . 
'Foolish Nell ! said the old man fondling with her hair . 
'She always laughs at poor Kit . 
The child laughed again more heartily than before , I could not help smiling from pure sympathy . 
The little old man took up a candle and went to open the door . 
When he came back , Kit was at his heels . 
I entertained a grateful feeling towards the boy from that minute , for I felt that he was the comedy of the child's life . 
'A long way , wasn't it , Kit ? said the little old man . 
'Why , then , it was a goodish stretch , master , returned Kit . 
'Of course you have come back hungry ? 'Why , then , I do consider myself rather so , master , was the answer . 
he carried a large slice of bread and meat and a mug of beer into a corner , and applied himself to disposing of them with great voracity . 
'You must not attach too great weight to a remark founded on first appearances , my friend , said I. 'No , returned the old man thoughtfully , 'no . 
The little girl hastened from her seat , and put her arm about his neck . 
'Do I love thee , Nell ? said he . 
'Say do I love thee , Nell , or no ? The child only answered by her caresses , and laid her head upon his breast . 
'Why dost thou sob ? said the grandfather , pressing her closer to him and glancing towards me . 
'Indeed , indeed you do , replied the child with great earnestness , 'Kit knows you do . 
'She is poor now' said the old men , patting the child's cheek , 'but I say again that the time is coming when she shall be rich . 
It has been a long time coming , but it must come at last a very long time , but it surely must come . 
It has come to other men who do nothing but waste and riot . 
When WILL it come to me ! 'I am very happy as I am , grandfather , said the child . 
By this time it wanted but a few minutes of midnight and I rose to go , which recalled him to himself . 
'Good night , Miss Nell , returned the boy . 
'And thank this gentleman , interposed the old man , 'but for whose care I might have lost my little girl to night . 
'No , no , master , said Kit , 'that won't do , that won't . 
'What do you mean ? cried the old man . 
'I'd have found her , master , said Kit , 'I'd have found her . 
I'll bet that I'd find her if she was above ground , I would , as quick as anybody , master . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Once more opening his mouth and shutting his eyes , and laughing like a stentor , Kit gradually backed to the door , and roared himself out . 
I should be sorry that you went away , and thought I was unmindful of your goodness , or careless of her I am not indeed . 
I was sure of that , I said , from what I had seen . 
I have no right to feel hurt at what you say . 
It is true that in many respects I am the child , and she the grown person that you have seen already . 
Ah ! It's a weary life for an old man a weary , weary life but there is a great end to gain and that I keep before me . 
I was surprised to see the child standing patiently by with a cloak upon her arm , and in her hand a hat , and stick . 
'Those are not mine , my dear , said I. 'No , returned the child , 'they are grandfather's . 
'But he is not going out to night . 
'Oh , yes , he is , said the child , with a smile . 
'And what becomes of you , my pretty one ? 'Me ! I stay here of course . 
I looked in astonishment towards the old man , but he was , or feigned to be , busied in the arrangement of his dress . 
From him I looked back to the slight gentle figure of the child . 
Alone ! In that gloomy place all the long , dreary night . 
She evinced no consciousness of my surprise , but cheerfully helped the old man with his cloak , and when he was ready took a candle to light us out . 
Finding that we did not follow as she expected , she looked back with a smile and waited for us . 
I had no resource but to comply . 
When we reached the door , the child setting down the candle , turned to say good night and raised her face to kiss me . 
Then she ran to the old man , who folded her in his arms and bade God bless her . 
'Sleep soundly , Nell , he said in a low voice , 'and angels guard thy bed ! Do not forget thy prayers , my sweet . 
'No , indeed , answered the child fervently , 'they make me feel so happy ! 'That's well I know they do they should , said the old man . 
'Bless thee a hundred times ! Early in the morning I shall be home . 
'You'll not ring twice , returned the child . 
'The bell wakes me , even in the middle of a dream . 
With this , they separated . 
and with another farewell whose clear and tender note I have recalled a thousand times , held it until we had passed out . 
The old man paused a moment while it was gently closed and fastened on the inside , and satisfied that this was done , walked on at a slow pace . 
At the street corner he stopped , and regarding me with a troubled countenance said that our ways were widely different and that he must take his leave . 
I would have spoken , but summoning up more alacrity than might have been expected in one of his appearance , he hurried away . 
The obscurity of the night favoured his disappearance , and his figure was soon beyond my sight . 
I remained standing on the spot where he had left me , unwilling to depart , and yet unknowing why I should loiter there . 
I looked wistfully into the street we had lately quitted , and after a time directed my steps that way . 
I passed and repassed the house , and stopped and listened at the door all was dark , and silent as the grave . 
No , it was black , cold , and lifeless as before . 
There were few passengers astir the street was sad and dismal , and pretty well my own . 
Still I paced up and down , promising myself that every time should be the last , and breaking faith with myself on some new plea as often as I did so . 
The more I thought of what the old man had said , and of his looks and bearing , the less I could account for what I had seen and heard . 
I had a strong misgiving that his nightly absence was for no good purpose . 
These reflections naturally recalled again more strongly than before his haggard face , his wandering manner , his restless anxious looks . 
I could not admit the thought , remembering what had passed between us , and the tone of voice in which he had called her by her name . 
But all that night , waking or in my sleep , the same thoughts recurred and the same images retained possession of my brain . 
'You interrupted us at a critical moment , said he , pointing to the man whom I had found in company with him 'this fellow will murder me one of these days . 
He would have done so , long ago , if he had dared . 
'If oaths , or prayers , or words , could rid me of you , they should . 
I would be quit of you , and would be relieved if you were dead . 
'I know it , returned the other . 
'I said so , didn't I ? But neither oaths , or prayers , nor words , WILL kill me , and therefore I live , and mean to live . 
I tell you again that I want to see my sister . 
'YOUR sister ! said the old man bitterly . 
'Ah ! You can't change the relationship , returned the other . 
'If you could , you'd have done it long ago . 
I want to see her and I will . 
'Here's a moralist to talk of poisoned minds ! Here's a generous spirit to scorn scraped up shillings ! cried the old man , turning from him to me . 
'Strangers are nothing to me , grandfather , said the young fellow catching at the word , 'nor I to them , I hope . 
The best they can do , is to keep an eye to their business and leave me to mind . 
There's a friend of mine waiting outside , and as it seems that I may have to wait some time , I'll call him in , with your leave . 
It's Dick Swiveller , said the young fellow , pushing him in . 
'But is the old min agreeable ? said Mr Swiveller in an undertone . 
'Fred ! cried Mr Swiveller , tapping his nose , 'a word to the wise is sufficient for them we may be good and happy without riches , Fred . 
I know my cue smart is the word . 
Only one little whisper , Fred is the old min friendly ? 'Never you mind , repled his friend . 
'Right again , quite right , said Mr Swiveller , 'caution is the word , and caution is the act . 
with that , he winked as if in preservation of some deep secret , and folding his arms and leaning back in his chair , looked up at the ceiling with profound gravity . 
'No , but IS he ? said Dick . 
'It's a devil of a thing , gentlemen , said Mr Swiveller , 'when relations fall out and disagree . 
If the wing of friendship should never moult a feather , the wing of relationship should never be clipped , but be always expanded and serene . 
Why should a grandson and grandfather peg away at each other with mutual wiolence when all might be bliss and concord . 
Why not jine hands and forgit it ? 'Hold your tongue , said his friend . 
'Sir , replied Mr Swiveller , 'don't you interrupt the chair . 
'Why do you hunt and persecute me , God help me ! said the old man turning to his grandson . 
Leave Nell and me to toil and work . 
'Nell will be a woman soon , returned the other , 'and , bred in your faith , she'll forget her brother unless he shows himself sometimes . 
'Take care , said the old man with sparkling eyes , 'that she does not forget you when you would have her memory keenest . 
Take care that the day don't come when you walk barefoot in the streets , and she rides by in a gay carriage of her own . 
'You mean when she has your money ? retorted the other . 
Such hair as he had was of a grizzled black , cut short and straight upon his temples , and hanging in a frowzy fringe about his ears . 
His hands , which were of a rough , coarse grain , were very dirty his fingernails were crooked , long , and yellow . 
There was ample time to note these particulars , for besides that they were sufficiently obvious without very close observation , some moments elapsed before any one broke silence . 
glanced keenly at all present , and the curiosity dealer , who plainly had not expected his uncouth visitor , seemed disconcerted and embarrassed . 
'And that ? said the dwarf , pointing to Dick Swiveller . 
'Some friend of his , as welcome here as he , said the old man . 
'And that ? inquired the dwarf , wheeling round and pointing straight at me . 
'A gentleman who was so good as to bring Nell home the other night when she lost her way , coming from your house . 
'Well , Nelly , said the young fellow aloud . 
'Do they teach you to hate me , eh ? 'No , no . 
Oh , no ! cried the child . 
'To love me , perhaps ? pursued her brother with a sneer . 
'To do neither , she returned . 
'They never speak to me about you . 
'I dare be bound for that , he said , darting a bitter look at the grandfather . 
'I dare be bound for that Nell . 
Oh ! I believe you there ! 'But I love you dearly , Fred , said the child . 
We part good friends enough , if that's the matter . 
It's not a long one Daniel Quilp . 
'Harkee , Mr Quilp , then , pursued the other , 'You have some influence with my grandfather there . 
'Some , said Mr Quilp emphatically . 
'And are in a few of his mysteries and secrets . 
'A few , replied Quilp , with equal dryness . 
I care for the whim , then , of coming to and fro and reminding her of my existence . 
I WILL see her when I please . 
I came here to day to maintain it , and I'll come here again fifty times with the same object and always with the same success . 
I said I would stop till I had gained it . 
I have done so , and now my visit's ended . 
'Stop ! cried Mr Swiveller , as his companion turned toward the door . 
'Sir ! 'Sir , I am your humble servant , said Mr Quilp , to whom the monosyllable was addressed . 
'Before I leave the gay and festive scene , and halls of dazzling light , sir , said Mr Swiveller , 'I will with your permission , attempt a slight remark . 
I came here , sir , this day , under the impression that the old min was friendly . 
'Proceed , sir , said Daniel Quilp for the orator had made a sudden stop . 
'Is what ? demanded Quilp . 
'Is fork , sir , fork , replied Mr Swiveller slapping his picket . 
'You are awake , sir ? The dwarf nodded . 
Mr Swiveller drew back and nodded likewise , then drew a little further back and nodded again , and so on . 
Having performed the serious pantomime that was necessary for the due conveyance of these idea , he cast himself upon his friend's track , and vanished . 
'Humph ! said the dwarf with a sour look and a shrug of his shoulders , 'so much for dear relations . 
'What would you have me do ? he retorted in a kind of helpless desperation . 
'It is easy to talk and sneer . 
What would you have me do ? 'What would I do if I was in your case ? said the dwarf . 
'Something violent , no doubt . 
'You're right there , returned the little man , highly gratified by the compliment , for such he evidently considered it and grinning like a devil as he rubbed his dirty hands together . 
'Ask Mrs Quilp , pretty Mrs Quilp , obedient , timid , loving Mrs Quilp . 
But that reminds me I have left her all alone , and she will be anxious and know not a moment's peace till I return . 
Oh ! well trained Mrs Quilp . 
She need be accustomed to such loads betimes thought , neighbor , for she will carry weight when you are dead . 
'Heaven send she may ! I hope so , said the old man with something like a groan . 
'Hope so ! echoed the dwarf , approaching close to his ear 'neighbour , I would I knew in what good investment all these supplies are sunk . 
But you are a deep man , and keep your secret close . 
'My secret ! said the other with a haggard look . 
'Yes , you're right I I keep it close very close . 
He said no more , but taking the money turned away with a slow , uncertain step , and pressed his hand upon his head like a weary and dejected man . 
I had several times essayed to go myself , but the old man had always opposed it and entreated me to remain . 
It needed no great pressing to induce me to stay , for if my curiosity has been excited on the occasion of my first visit , it certainly was not diminished now . 
Nell joined us before long , and bringing some needle work to the table , sat by the old man's side . 
'I'll be of better cheer , Nell , he said 'there must be good fortune in store for thee I do not ask it for myself , but thee . 
'Grandfather ! cried the child in unfeigned surprise . 
'Not in intention no no , said he . 
'I have ever looked forward to the time that should enable thee to mix among the gayest and prettiest , and take thy station with the best . 
Go to him , Nell , go to him . 
'A word in your ear , sir , said the old man in a hurried whisper . 
All is for her sake . 
I have borne great poverty myself , and would spare her the sufferings that poverty carries with it . 
I would spare her the miseries that brought her mother , my own dear child , to an early grave . 
I would leave her not with resources which could be easily spent or squandered away , but with what would place her beyond the reach of want for ever . 
All that I had heard and seen , and a great part of what he had said himself , led me to suppose that he was a wealthy man . 
CHAPTER Mr and Mrs Quilp resided on Tower Hill and in her bower on Tower Hill . 
Mrs Quilp was left to pine the absence of her lord , when he quitted her on the business which he had already seen to transact . 
Mr Quilp could scarcely be said to be of any particular trade or calling , though his pursuits were diversified and his occupations numerous . 
It has been said that Mrs Quilp was pining in her bower . 
to drop in one after another , just about tea time . 
All the ladies then sighed in concert , shook their heads gravely , and looked at Mrs Quilp as a martyr . 
'Owe indeed , ma'am ! replied Mrs Jiniwin . 
'But you have no call to do it , said Mrs Jiniwin . 
'Luckily for you , you have no more occasion to do it than I had . 
'No woman need have , if she was true to herself , rejoined the stout lady . 
'Do you hear that , Betsy ? said Mrs Jiniwin , in a warning voice . 
Marry whom he pleased ! They would like to see him dare to think of marrying any of them they would like to see the faintest approach to such a thing . 
was quite certain she should stab him if he hinted at it . 
Come ! Everybody bridled up at this remark , as much as to say , 'I know you mean me . 
Let him try that's all . 
On the other hand , to exaggerate the captivating qualities of her son in law would be to weaken the cause of revolt , in which all her energies were deeply engaged . 
'Oh ! It's a sensible and proper thing indeed , what Mrs George has said , ! exclaimed the old lady . 
'If women are only true to themselves ! But Betsy isn't , and more's the shame and pity . 
Mrs Simmons corroborated this testimony and added strong evidence of her own . 
'Go on , ladies , go on , said Daniel . 
'Mrs Quilp , pray ask the ladies to stop to supper , and have a couple of lobsters and something light and palatable . 
'I I didn't ask them to tea , Quilp , stammered his wife . 
'And why not stop to supper , Quilp , said the old lady , 'if my daughter had a mind ? 'To be sure , rejoined Daniel . 
'Why not ? 'There's nothing dishonest or wrong in a supper , I hope ? said Mrs Jiniwin . 
'Surely not , returned the dwarf . 
'Why should there be ? Nor anything unwholesome , either , unless there's lobster salad or prawns , which I'm told are not good for digestion . 
'And you wouldn't like your wife to be attacked with that , or anything else that would make her uneasy would you ? said Mrs Jiniwin . 
'Not for a score of worlds , replied the dwarf with a grin . 
'So she is , certainly . 
So she is , observed the dwarf . 
'Hope she has ! he replied . 
I am sure he did . 
'Her father was a blessed creetur , Quilp , and worthy twenty thousand of some people , said Mrs Jiniwin 'twenty hundred million thousand . 
'I should like to have known him , remarked the dwarf . 
'I dare say he was a blessed creature then but I'm sure he is now . 
It was a happy release . 
'You look ill , Mrs Jiniwin I know you have been exciting yourself too much talking perhaps , for it is your weakness . 
'I shall go when I please , Quilp , and not before . 
'But please to do now . 
Do please to go now , said the dwarf . 
'Mrs Quilp , he said at last . 
'Yes , Quilp , she replead meekly . 
'If ever you listen to these beldames again , I'll bite you . 
'Now , Mrs Quilp , he said 'I feel in a smoking humour , and shall probably blaze away all night . 
But sit where you are , if you please , in case I want you . 
His wife returned no other reply than the necessary 'Yes , Quilp , and the small lord of the creation took his first cigar and mixed his first glass of grog . 
He might not have done so even then , but for certain impatient tapping at the door he seemed to denote that some pretty hard knuckles were actively engaged upon the other side . 
'Why dear me ! he said looking round with a malicious grin , 'it's day . 
Open the door , sweet Mrs Quilp ! His obedient wife withdrew the bolt , and her lady mother entered . 
'Yes she has ! 'All night ? cried Mrs Jiniwin . 
Is the dear old lady deaf ? said Quilp , with a smile of which a frown was part . 
'Who says man and wife are bad company ? Ha ha ! The time has flown . 
'You're a brute ! exclaimed Mrs Jiniwin . 
'Come come , said Quilp , wilfully misunderstanding her , of course , 'you mustn't call her names . 
She's married now , you know . 
And though she did beguile the time and keep me from my bed , you must not be so tenderly careful of me as to be out of humour with her . 
Bless you for a dear old lady . 
'Oh ! I'm very much obliged to you ! 'Grateful soul ! cried the dwarf . 
'Yes , Quilp , said the timid sufferer . 
'Help your mother to get breakfast , Mrs Quilp . 
I am going to the wharf this morning the earlier the better , so be quick . 
Mrs Jiniwin made a faint demonstration of rebellion by sitting down in a chair near the door and folding her arms as if in a resolute determination to do nothing . 
'Ah ! he said after a short effort of attention , 'it was not the towel over my ears , I thought it wasn't . 
I'm a little hunchy villain and a monster , am I , Mrs Jiniwin ? Oh ! The pleasure of this discovery called up the old doglike smile in full force . 
When he had quite done with it , he shook himself in a very doglike manner , and rejoined the ladies . 
It was flood tide when Daniel Quilp sat himself down in the ferry to cross to the opposite shore . 
'Come , you let me alone , said the boy , parrying Quilp's hand with both his elbows alternatively . 
'You'll get something you won't like if you don't and so I tell you . 
Having now carried his point and insisted on it , he left off . 
'I won't do it again , because I've done it as often as I want . 
'Why don't you hit one of your size ? said the boy approaching very slowly . 
'Where is there one of my size , you dog ? returned Quilp . 
'Take the key , or I'll brain you with it' indeed he gave him a smart tap with the handle as he spoke . 
'Now , open the counting house . 
The boy sulkily complied , muttering at first , but desisting when he looked round and saw that Quilp was following him with a steady look . 
And here it may be remarked , that between this boy and the dwarf that existed a strange kind of mutual liking . 
How born or bred , and or nourished upon blows and threats on one side , and retorts and defiances on the other , is not to the purpose . 
'Now , said Quilp , passing into the wooden counting house , 'you mind the wharf . 
Stand upon your head agin , and I'll cut one of your feet off . 
There were indeed four sides to the counting house , but he avoided that one where the window was , deeming it probable that Quilp would be looking out of it . 
Quilp was a light sleeper and started up directly . 
'Here's somebody for you , said the boy . 
'Who ? 'I don't know . 
Not caring to venture within range of such missles again , the boy discreetly sent in his stead the first cause of the interruption , who now presented herself at the door . 
'What , Nelly ! cried Quilp . 
'Come in , said Quilp , without getting off the desk . 
Just look out into the yard , and see whether there's a boy standing on his head . 
'No , sir , replied Nell . 
'You're sure he is ? said Quilp . 
Now , come in and shut the door . 
What's your message , Nelly ? The child handed him a letter . 
That Mr Quilp was himself perplexed , and that in no small degree , by the contents of the letter , was sufficiently obvious . 
After folding and laying it down beside him , he bit the nails of all of his ten fingers with extreme voracity and taking it up sharply , read it again . 
'Halloa here ! he said at length , in a voice , and with a suddenness , which made the child start as though a gun had been fired off at her ear . 
'Nelly ! 'Yes , sir . 
'Do you know what's inside this letter , Nell ? 'No , sir ! 'Are you sure , quite sure , quite certain , upon your soul ? 'Quite sure , sir . 
'Do you wish you may die if you do know , hey ? said the dwarf . 
'Indeed I don't know , returned the child . 
'Well ! muttered Quilp as he marked her earnest look . 
'You look very pretty to day , Nelly , charmingly pretty . 
Are you tired , Nelly ? 'No , sir . 
I'm in a hurry to get back , for he will be anxious while I am away . 
'There's no hurry , little Nell , no hurry at all , said Quilp . 
The child looked frightened , but seemed not to understand him , which Mr Quilp observing , hastened to make his meaning more distinctly . 
Say that Mrs Quilp lives five year , or only four , you'll be just the proper age for me . 
Ha ha ! Be a good girl , Nelly , a very good girl , and see if one of these days you don't come to be Mrs Quilp of Tower Hill . 
So far from being sustained and stimulated by this delightful prospect , the child shrank from him in great agitation , and trembled violently . 
'You shall home with me to Tower Hill and see Mrs Quilp that is , directly , said the dwarf . 
'She's very fond of you , Nell , though not so fond as I am . 
You shall come home with me . 
'I must go back indeed , said the child . 
'He told me to return directly I had the answer . 
Reach me yonder hat , my dear , and we'll go directly . 
Now , my boys , fight away . 
This being warmer work than they had calculated upon , speedily cooled the courage of the belligerents , who scrambled to their feet and called for quarter . 
'I'll beat you to a pulp , you dogs , said Quilp , vainly endeavoring to get near either of them for a parting blow . 
'I'll bruise you until you're copper coloured , I'll break your faces till you haven't a profile between you , I will . 
'Come , you drop that stick or it'll be worse for you , said his boy , dodging round him and watching an opportunity to rush in 'you drop that stick . 
'Come a little nearer , and I'll drop it on your skull , you dog , said Quilp , with gleaming eyes 'a little nearer nearer yet . 
But the boy declined the invitation until his master was apparently a little off his guard , when he darted in and seizing the weapon tried to wrest it from his grasp . 
the success of this manoeuvre tickled Mr Quilp beyond description , and he laughed and stamped upon the ground as at a most irresistible jest . 
'Do you mean to say , I'm not , you dog ? returned Quilp . 
'No ! retorted the boy . 
'Then what do you fight on my wharf for , you villain ? said Quilp . 
'Because he said so , replied to boy , pointing to Kit , 'not because you an't . 
said Quilp , with great suavity in his manner , but still more of quiet malice about his eyes and mouth . 
'Here's sixpence for you , Kit . 
At all times , Kit , speak the truth . 
Lock the counting house , you dog , and bring me the key . 
She had barely time to seem to be occupied in some needle work , when he entered , accompanied by the child having left Kit downstairs . 
'Here's Nelly Trent , dear Mrs Quilp , said her husband . 
'A glass of wine , my dear , and a biscuit , for she has had a long walk . 
She'll sit with you , my soul , while I write a letter . 
'Mind what I say to you , whispered Quilp . 
'See if you can get out of her anything about her grandfather , or what they do , or how they live , or what he tells her . 
I've my reasons for knowing , if I can . 
You women talk more freely to one another than you do to us , and you have a soft , mild way with you that'll win upon her . 
Do you hear ? 'Yes , Quilp . 
What's the matter now ? 'Dear Quilp , faltered his wife . 
the submissive little woman hurriedly entreated him not to be angry , and promised to do as he bade her . 
'Do you hear me , whispered Quilp , nipping and pinching her arm 'worm yourself into her secrets I know you can . 
If you're not sharp enough , I'll creak the door , and woe betide you if I have to creak it much . 
'How very often you have come backwards and forwards lately to Mr Quilp , my dear . 
'I have said so to grandfather , a hundred times , returned Nell innocently . 
How that door creaks ! 'It often does . 
returned Mrs Quilp , with an uneasy glance towards it . 
'I am very , very sorry , to hear you speak like this , my dear ! said Mrs Quilp . 
And she spoke the truth . 
'Thank you , returned the child , kissing her cheek , 'you are always kind to me , and it is a pleasure to talk to you . 
I can speak to no one else about him , but poor Kit . 
I am very happy still , I ought to feel happier perhaps than I do , but you cannot think how it grieves me sometimes to see him alter so . 
'He'll alter again , Nelly , said Mrs Quilp , 'and be what he was before . 
'Began to 'To be so thoughtful and dejected , and to forget our old way ot spending the time in the long evenings , said the child . 
I don't mind telling you my grief , for I know you will not tell it to any one again . 
Mrs Quilp turned away her head and made no answer . 
'Mind you don't suppose , said the child earnestly , 'that grandfather is less kind to me than he was . 
I think he loves me better every day , and is kinder and more afectionate than he was the day before . 
You do not know how fond he is of me ! 'I am sure he loves you dearly , said Mrs Quilp . 
'Indeed , indeed he does ! cried Nell , 'as dearly as I love him . 
But I have not told you the greatest change of all , and this you must never breathe again to any one . 
He has no sleep or rest , but that which he takes by day in his easy chair for every night and neary all night long he is away from home . 
'Nelly ! 'Hush ! said the child , laying her finger on her lip and looking round . 
'When he comes home in the morning , which is generally just before day , I let him in . 
Last night he was very late , and it was quite light . 
I saw that his face was deadly pale , that his eyes were bloodshot , and that his legs trembled as he walked . 
When I had gone to bed again , I heard him groan . 
'She's tired you see , Mrs Quilp , said the dwarf , squinting in a hideous manner to imply that his wife was to follow his lead . 
'It's a long way from her home to the wharf , and then she was alrmed to see a couple of young scoundrels fighting , and was timorous on the water besides . 
All this together has been too much for her . 
Poor Nell ! Mr Quilp unintentionally adopted the very best means he could have devised for the recovery of his young visitor , by patting her on the head . 
'But you'd better wait , and dine with Mrs Quilp and me . 
'I have been away too long , sir , already , returned Nell , drying her eyes . 
'Well , said Mr Quilp , 'if you will go , you will , Nelly . 
It's only to say that I shall see him to morrow or maybe next day , and that I couldn't do that little business for him this morning . 
'You're a keen questioner , an't you , Mrs Quilp ? said the dwarf , turning upon her as soon as they were left alone . 
I've led her on to tell her secret she supposed we were alone and you were by , God forgive me . 
'You led her on ! You did a great deal truly ! said Quilp . 
Mrs Quilp being fully persuaded of this , made no reply . 
So let me hear no more about this matter now or at any other time , and don't get anything too nice for dinner , for I shan't be home to it . 
CHAPTER 'Fred , said Mr Swiveller , 'remember the once popular melody of Begone dull care fan the sinking flame of hilarity with the wing of friendship and pass the rosy wine . 
By a like pleasant fiction his single chamber was always mentioned in a plural number . 
No word of its real use , no hint of its nightly service , no allusion to its peculiar properties , had ever passed between him and his most intimate friends . 
Implicit faith in the deception was the first article of his creed . 
To be the friend of Swiveller you must reject all circumstantial evidence , all reason , observation , and experience , and repose a blind belief in the bookcase . 
It was his pet weakness , and he cherished it . 
'Fred ! said Mr Swiveller , finding that his former adjuration had been productive of no effect . 
Young Trent with an impatient gesture pushed the glass towards him , and fell again in the the moddy attitude from which he had been unwillingly roused . 
'I'll give you , Fred , said his friend , stirring the mixture , 'a little sentiment appropriate to the occasion . 
Here's May the 'Pshaw ! interposed the other . 
'You worry me to death with your chattering . 
You can be merry under any circumstances . 
'Why , Mr Trent , returned Dick , 'there is a proverb which talks about being merry and wise . 
I'm one of the first sort . 
'Bah ! muttered his friend , peevishly . 
'With all my heart , said Mr Swiveller . 
'In the polite circles I believe this sort of thing isn't usually said to a gentleman in his own apartments , but never mind that . 
'You saw my sister Nell ? 'What about her ? returned Dick . 
'She has a pretty face , has she not ? 'Why , certainly , replied Dick . 
'I must say for her that there's not any very strong family likeness between her and you . 
'Has she a pretty face , repeated his friend impatiently . 
'Yes , said Dick , 'she has a pretty face , a very pretty face . 
What of that ? 'I'll tell you , returned his friend . 
'It's very plain that the old man and I will remain at daggers drawn to the end of our lives , and that I have nothing to expect from him . 
You see that , I suppose ? 'A bat might see that , with the sun shining , said Dick . 
It may have done so . 
It was powerful , Fred . 
'Here is a jolly old grandfather' that was strong , I thought very friendly and natural . 
Did it strike you in that way ? It didn't strike him , returned the other , 'so we needn't discuss it . 
'Fine girl of her age , but small , observed Richard Swiveller parenthetically . 
'If I am to go on , be quiet for one minute , returned Trent , fretting at the slight interest the other appeared to take in the conversation . 
'Now I'm coming to the point . 
'That's right , said Dick . 
'The girl has strong affections , and brought up as she has been , may , at her age , be easily influenced and persuaded . 
If I take her in hand , I will be bound by a very little coaxing and threatening to bend her to my will . 
'I don't mean marrying her now' returned the brother angrily 'say in two year's time , in three , in four . 
Does the old man look like a long liver ? 'He don't look like it , said Dick shaking his head , 'but these old people there's no trusting them , Fred . 
There's an aunt of mind down in Dorsetshire that was going to die when I was eight years old , and hasn't kept her word yet . 
'Look at the worst side of the question then , said Trent as steadily as before , and keeping his eyes upon his friend . 
'To be sure , said Dick . 
'I say , resumed his friend , 'suppose he lives , and I persuaded , or if the word sounds more feasible , forced Nell to a secret marriage with you . 
What do you think would come of that ? 'A family and an annual income of nothing , to keep 'em on , said Richard Swiveller after some reflection . 
He could not do it . 
You or any other man with eyes in his head may see that , if he chooses . 
'It seems improbable certainly , said Dick , musing . 
'It seems improbable because it is improbable , his friend returned . 
As to Nell , constant dropping will wear away a stone you know you may trust to me as far as she is concerned . 
'I suppose there's no doubt about his being rich' said Dick . 
The motives on the other side were something deeper than any which Richard Swiveller entertained or understood , but these being left to their own development , require no present elucidation . 
The door was opened , but nothing came in except a soapy arm and a strong gush of tobacco . 
'Sophy Wackles , said Dick . 
'She's lovely , she's divine . 
'I remember , said his companion carelessly . 
The Goddess Diana , sir , that calls aloud for the chase , is not more particular in her behavior than Sophia Wackles I can tell you that . 
'Am I to believe there's anything real in what you say ? demanded his friend 'you don't mean to say that any love making has been going on ? 'Love making , yes . 
Promising , no , said Dick . 
'There can be no action for breach , that's one comfort . 
I've never committed myself in writing , Fred . 
It must go , if it's only to begin breaking off the affair I'll do it , don't you be afraid . 
I should like to know whether she left this herself . 
If she did , unconscious of any bar to her happiness , it's affecting , Fred . 
to which the rich and powerful are strangers . 
Ah ! 'Man wants but little here below , nor wants that little long ! How true that it ! after dinner . 
The goods are gone , Fred , and there's an end of it . 
'Is that a reminder , in case you should forget to call ? said Trent with a sneer . 
'Not exactly , Fred , replied the imperturable Richard , continuing to write with a businesslike air . 
'I enter in this little book the names of the streets that I can't go down while the shops are open . 
This dinner today closes Long Acre . 
I bought a pair of boots in Great Queen Street last week , and made that no throughfare too . 
There's only one avenue to the Strand left often now , and I shall have to stop up that to night with a pair of gloves . 
'There's no fear of failing , in the end ? said Trent . 
I'll write another tom morrow morning . 
I mean to blot it a good deal and shake some water over it out of the pepper castor to make it look penitent . 
She's like the red red rose that's newly sprung in June there's no denying that she's also like a melody that's sweetly played in tune . 
Not that there's any need , on account of Fred's little sister , to turn cool directly , but its better not to go too far . 
If I begin to cool at all I must begin at once , I see that . 
There's the chance of an action for breach , that's another . 
There's the chance of no , there's no chance of that , but it's as well to be on the safe side . 
For all these reasons , he decided to pick a quarrel with Miss Wackles without delay , and casting about for a pretext determined in favour of groundless jealousy . 
The several duties of instruction in this establishment were this discharged . 
Miss Melissa Wackles was the eldest daughter , Miss Sophy the next , and Miss Jane the youngest . 
Mrs Wackles was an excellent but rather vemenous old lady of three score . 
'If he has any expectations at all or any means of keeping a wife well , said Mrs Wackles to her eldest daughter , 'he'll state 'em to us now or never . 
'If he really cares about me , thought Miss Sophy , 'he must tell me so , to night . 
'Too early , no ! replied Miss Sophy . 
It's all your fault , you naughty thing . 
and so gained an advantage over his rival , who sat despondingly in a corner and contemplated the glorious figure of the young lady as she moved through the mazy dance . 
'You must dance with Miss Chegs , said Miss Sophy to Dick Swiviller , after she had herself danced twice with Mr Cheggs and made great show of encouraging his advances . 
'She's a nice girl and her brother's quite delightful . 
'Quite delightful , is he ? muttered Dick . 
'Quite delighted too , I should say , from the manner in which he's looking this way . 
interposed her many curls and whispered her sister to observe how jealous Mr Cheggs was . 
'Jealous ! Like his impudence ! said Richard Swiviller . 
'His impudence , Mr Swiviller ! said Miss Jane , tossing her head . 
'Take care he don't hear you , sir , or you may be sorry for it . 
'Oh , pray , Jane said Miss Sophy . 
'Nonsense ! replied her sister . 
'Why shouldn't Mr Cheggs be jealous if he likes ? I like that , certainly . 
Mr Cheggs has a good a right to be jealous as anyone else has , and perhaps he may have a better right soon if he hasn't already . 
'Did you speak to me , sir ? said Mr Cheggs , following him into a corner . 
'Have the kindness to smile , sir , in order that we may not be suspected . 
'Hem ! said Mr Cheggs , glancing over his shoulder , 'have the goodness to smile again , sir . 
Perhaps you wished to speak to me , sir . 
'No , sir , I didn't do that , either . 
'Perhaps you may have nothing to say to me now , sir , said Mr Cheggs fiercely . 
'Oh , indeed , sir ! said Mr Cheggs . 
'I'm glad to hear it . 
'There's nothing more we need say , I believe , sir ? 'Nothing more , sir' With that they closed the tremendous dialog by frowning mutually . 
Mr Cheggs hastened to tender his hand to Miss Sophy , and Mr Swiviller sat himself down in a corner in a very moody state . 
'I've got such news for you , said Miss Cheggs approaching once more , 'Alick has been saying such things to Sophy . 
Upon my word , you know , it's quite serious and in earnest , that's clear . 
'What's he been saying , my dear ? demanded Mrs Wackles . 
with a feeble old gentleman who lodged in the parlour . 
'Are you going ? said Miss Sophy , whose heart sank within her at the result of her stratagem , but who affected a light indifference notwithstanding . 
'Am I going ! echoed Dick bitterly . 
What then ? 'Nothing , except that it's very early , said Miss Sophy 'but you are your own master , of course . 
'I would that I had been my own mistress too , said Dick , 'before I had ever entertained a thought of you . 
Miss Wackles , I believed you true , and I was blest in so believing , but now I mourn that e'er I knew , a girl so fair yet so deceiving . 
Miss Sophy bit her lip and affected to look with great interest after Mr Cheggs , who was quaffing lemonade in the distance . 
I thought I'd mention it . 
I have now merely to apologize for trespassing so long upon your attention . 
He shall know all about that to morrow , and in the mean time , as it's rather late , I'll try and get a wink of the balmy . 
'The balmy' came almost as soon as it was courted . 
None are so anxious as those who watch and wait at these times , mournful fancies came flocking on her mind , in crowds . 
The shops were closing fast , and lights began to shine from the upper windows , as the neighbours went to bed . 
By degrees , these dwindled away and disappeared or were replaced , here and there , by a feeble rush candle which was to burn all night . 
Still , there was one late shop at no great distance which sent forth a ruddy glare upon the pavement even yet , and looked bright and companionable . 
But these fears vanished before a well trimmed lamp and the familiar aspect of her own room . 
One night , the third after Nelly's interview with Mrs Quilp , the old man , who had been weak and ill all day , said he should not leave home . 
The child's eyes sparkled at the intelligence , but her joy subsided when they reverted to his worn and sickly face . 
'Two days , he said , 'two whole , clear , days have passed , and there is no reply . 
What did he tell thee , Nell ? 'Exactly what I told you , dear grandfather , indeed . 
'True , said the old man , faintly . 
But tell me again , Nell . 
What was it that he told thee ? Nothing more than that he would see me to morrow or next day ? That was in the note . 
'Nothing more , said the child . 
'Shall I go to him again to morrow , dear grandfather ? Very early ? I will be there and back , before breakfast . 
The old man shook his head , and sighing mournfully , drew her towards him . 
''Twould be of no use , my dear , no earthly use . 
If we are beggars ! 'What if we are ? said the child boldly . 
'Let us be beggars , and be happy . 
'Beggars and happy ! said the old man . 
'Nelly ! said the old man . 
'Yes , yes , rather than live as we do now , the child repeated , more earnestly than before . 
Dear grandfather , let us leave this sad place to morrow , and beg our way from door to door . 
The old man covered his face with his hands , and hid it in the pillow of the couch on which he lay . 
'Let us be beggars , said the child passing an arm round his neck , 'I have no fear but we shall have enough , I am sure we shall . 
The child's voice was lost in sobs as she dropped upon the old man's neck nor did she weep alone . 
These were not words for other ears , nor was it a scene for other eyes . 
And in this position the old man , happening in course of time to look that way , at length chanced to see him to his unbounded astonishment . 
Not at all disconcerted by this reception , Daniel Quilp preserved the same attitude , merely nodding twice or thrice with great condescension . 
At length , the old man pronounced his name , and inquired how he came there . 
'Through the door , said Quilp pointing over his shoulder with his thumb . 
'I'm not quite small enough to get through key holes . 
I want to have some talk with you , particularly , and in private . 
With nobody present , neighbour . 
Good bye , little Nelly . 
Nell looked at the old man , who nodded to her to retire , and kissed her cheek . 
'Ah ! said the dwarf , smacking his lips , 'what a nice kiss that was just upon the rosy part . 
What a capital kiss ! Nell was none the slower in going away , for this remark . 
Quilp looked after her with an admiring leer , and when she had closed the door , fell to complimenting the old man upon her charms . 
It was not lost upon Quilp , who delighted in torturing him , or indeed anybody else , when he could . 
I thought it was sluggish in its course , and cool , quite cool . 
I am pretty sure it ought to be . 
Yours must be out of order , neighbour . 
'I believe it is , groaned the old man , clasping his head with both hands . 
'There's burning fever here , and something now and then to which I fear to give a name . 
The dwarf said never a word , but watched his companion as he paced restlessly up and down the room , and presently returned to his seat . 
You have no secret from me now . 
The old man looked up , trembling . 
'You are surprised , said Quilp . 
'Well , perhaps that's natural . 
You have no secret from me now , I say no , not one . 
'To the gaming table , rejoined Quilp , 'your nightly haunt . 
this was your inexhaustible mine of gold , your El Dorado , eh ? 'Yes , cried the old man , turning upon him with gleaming eyes , 'it was . 
It will be , till I die . 
'That I should have been blinded , said Quilp looking contemptuously at him , 'by a mere shallow gambler ! 'I am no gambler , cried the old man fiercely . 
My winnings would have been from them , my winnings would have been bestowed to the last farthing on a young sinless child whose life they would have sweetened and made happy . 
What would they have contracted ? The means of corruption , wretchedness , and misery . 
'When did I first begin ? he rejoined , passing his hand across his brow . 
'After you first came to me to get your precious grandson packed off to sea ? said Quilp . 
'Shortly after that , replied the old man . 
'I thought of it a long time , and had it in my sleep for months . 
I found no pleasure in it , I expected none . 
'But did you never win ? 'Never ! groaned the old man . 
Quilp , I have dreamed , three nights , of winning the same large sum , I never could dream that dream before , though I have often tried . 
Do not desert me , now I have this chance . 
I have no resource but you , give me some help , let me try this one last hope . 
The dwarf shrugged his shoulders and shook his head . 
Look at these figures , the result of long calculation , and painful and hard experience . 
I only want a little help once more , a few pounds , but two score pounds , dear Quilp . 
'The last advance was seventy , said the dwarf 'and it went in one night . 
'I know it did , answered the old man , 'but that was the very worst fortune of all , and the time had not come then . 
'Nay , Quilp , good Quilp , gasped the old man , catching at his skirts , 'you and I have talked together , more than once , of her poor mother's story . 
The fear of her coming to poverty has perhaps been bred in me by that . 
Do not be hard upon me , but take that into account . 
You are a great gainer by me . 
'Who is it , retorted the old man desperately , 'that , notwithstanding all my caution , told you ? Come . 
Let me know the name the person . 
'How came you to think of him ? said the dwarf in a tone of great commiseration . 
'Yes , it was Kit . 
'Poor Kit ! muttered Quilp . 
'I think it was Kit who said I was an uglier dwarf than could be seen anywhere for a penny , wasn't it . 
Ha ha ha ! Poor Kit ! And with that he went his way , still chuckling as he went . 
CHAPTER Daniel Quilp neither entered nor left the old man's house , unobserved . 
This patient lounger attracted little attention from any of those who passed , and bestowed as little upon them . 
His eyes were constantly directed towards one object the window at which the child was accustomed to sit . 
It had been remarked that this personage evinced no weariness in his place of concealment nor did he , long as his waiting was . 
But as the time went on , he manifested some anxiety and surprise , glancing at the clock more frequently and at the window less hopefully than before . 
'Bless us ! cried a woman turning sharply round , 'who's that ? Oh ! It's you , Kit ! 'Yes , mother , it's me . 
'Why , how tired you look , my dear ! 'Old master an't gone out to night , said Kit 'and so she hasn't been at the window at all . 
With which words , he sat down by the fire and looked very mournful and discontented . 
It was rather a queer looking family Kit , his mother , and the children , being all strongly alike . 
'I hope there are many a great deal better , Kit , said Mrs Nubbles 'and that there are , or ought to be , accordin' to what the parson at chapel says . 
'Much he knows about it , returned Kit contemptuously . 
'Well , said Mrs Nubbles , evading the point , 'your beer's down there by the fender , Kit . 
'I see , replied her son , taking up the porter pot , 'my love to you , mother . 
And the parson's health too if you like . 
I don't bear him any malice , not I ! 'Did you tell me , just now , that your master hadn't gone out to night ? inquired Mrs Nubbles . 
'Yes , said Kit , 'worse luck ! 'You should say better luck , I think , returned his mother , 'because Miss Nelly won't have been left alone . 
'Ah ! said Kit , 'I forgot that . 
I said worse luck , because I've been watching ever since eight o'clock , and seen nothing of her . 
'Never mind what she'd say , replied Kit , with something like a blush on his uncouth face 'she'll never know nothing , and consequently , she'll never say nothing . 
'No , but they would indeed . 
Some people would say that you'd fallen in love with her , I know they would . 
To this , Kit only replied by bashfully bidding his mother 'get out , and forming sundry strange figures with his legs and arms , accompanied by sympathetic contortions of his face . 
It's a cruel thing to keep the dear child shut up there . 
I don't wonder that the old gentleman wants to keep it from you . 
No , no , that he wouldn't . 
I know him better than that . 
'Then what does he do it for , and why does he keep it so close from you ? said Mrs Nubbles . 
'That I don't know , returned her son . 
Hark ! what's that ? 'It's only somebody outside . 
'It's somebody crossing over here , said Kit , standing up to listen , 'and coming very fast too . 
'Miss Nelly ! What is the matter ! cried mother and son together . 
'I must not stay a moment , she returned , 'grandfather has been taken very ill . 
I found him in a fit upon the floor 'I'll run for a doctor' said Kit , seizing his brimless hat . 
'Never again , said the child . 
'Don't ask me why , for I don't know . 
'He complains and raves of you , said the child , 'I don't know what you have done , but I hope it's nothing very bad . 
'I done ! roared Kit . 
You must not return to us any more . 
I came to tell you . 
I thought it would be better that I should come than somebody quite strange . 
I hope he will be sorry and do well somewhere else and not take this to heart too much . 
It grieves me very much to part with him like this , but there is no help . 
She rocked herself upon a chair , wringing her hands and weeping bitterly , but Kit made no attempt to comfort her and remained quite bewildered . 
CHAPTER Quiet and solitude were destined to hold uninterrupted rule no longer , beneath the roof that sheltered the child . 
Next morning , the old man was in a raging fever accompanied with delirium and sinking under the influence of this disorder he lay for many weeks in imminent peril of his life . 
The house was no longer theirs . 
Even the sick chamber seemed to be retained , on the uncertain tenure of Mr Quilp's favour . 
To this end , Mr Quilp encamped in the back parlour , having first put an effectual stop to any further business by shutting up the shop . 
he caused them to be carried into this room , and took up his position in great state . 
These arrangements completed , Mr Quilp looked round him with chuckling satisfaction , and remarked that he called that comfort . 
He wore a long black surtout reaching nearly to his ankles , short black trousers , high shoes , and cotton stockings of a bluish grey . 
Luckily the boy was case hardened , and would have smoked a small lime kiln if anybody had treated him with it . 
Wherefore , he only muttered a brief defiance of his master , and did as he was ordered . 
'Is it good , Brass , is it nice , is it fragrant , do you feel like the Grand Turk ? said Quilp . 
'We must stop , I suppose , till the old gentleman up stairs is dead , returned Quilp . 
'He he he ! laughed Mr Brass , 'oh ! very good ! 'Smoke away ! cried Quilp . 
'Never stop ! You can talk as you smoke . 
'He he he ! cried Brass faintly , as he again applied himself to the odious pipe . 
'But if he should get better , Mr Quilp ? 'Then we shall stop till he does , and no longer , returned the dwarf . 
'How kind it is of you , Sir , to wait till then ! said Brass . 
'Some people , Sir , would have sold or removed the goods oh dear , the very instant the law allowed 'em . 
Some people , Sir , would have been all flintiness and granite . 
Some people , sir , would have 'Some people would have spared themselves the jabbering of such a parrot as you , interposed the dwarf . 
'He he he ! cried Brass . 
'You have such spirits ! The smoking sentinel at the door interposed in this place , and without taking his pipe from his lips , growled , 'Here's the gal a comin' down . 
'The what , you dog ? said Quilp . 
'The gal , returned the boy . 
'What a pretty little Nell ! cried Quilp . 
'Oh beautiful , sir , beautiful indeed , said Brass . 
'I'm not going to stay at all , faltered Nell . 
'I want a few things out of that room , and then I I won't come down here any more . 
'And a very nice little room it is ! said the dwarf looking into it as the child entered . 
'She's very sensitive , said Quilp , looking after her . 
'Very sensitive that's a pity . 
The bedstead is much about my size . 
I think I shall make it MY little room . 
Mr Brass encouraging this idea , as he would have encouraged any other emanating from the same source , the dwarf walked in to try the effect . 
This he did , by throwing himself on his back upon the bed with his pipe in his mouth , and then kicking up his legs and smoking violently . 
, took the opportunity of slinking away into the open air , where , in course of time , he recovered sufficiently to return with a countenance of tolerable composure . 
He was soon led on by the malicious dwarf to smoke himself into a relapse , and in that state stumbled upon a settee where he slept till morning . 
Such were Mr Quilp's first proceedings on entering upon his new property . 
Nell shrank timidly from all the dwarf's advances towards conversation , and fled from the very sound of his voice nor were the lawyer's smiles less terrible to her than Quilp's grimaces . 
Looking down , she recognised Kit , whose endeavours to attract her attention had roused her from her sad reflections . 
'Miss Nell ! said the boy in a low voice . 
You don't believe I hope you don't really believe that I deserve to be cast off as I have been do you , miss ? 'I must believe it , returned the child . 
'Or why would grandfather have been so angry with you ? 'I don't know , replied Kit . 
'I'm sure I never deserved it from him , no , nor from you . 
I can say that , with a true and honest heart , any way . 
And then to be driven from the door , when I only came to ask how old master was ! 'They never told me that , said the child . 
'I didn't know it indeed . 
I wouldn't have had them do it for the world . 
'Thank'ee , miss , returned Kit , 'it's comfortable to hear you say that . 
I said I never would believe that it was your doing . 
'That was right ! said the child eagerly . 
'Miss Nell , cried the boy coming under the window , and speaking in a lower tone , 'there are new masters down stairs . 
It's a change for you . 
'It is indeed , replied the child . 
'And so it will be for him when he gets better , said the boy , pointing towards the sick room . 
If he ever does , added the child , unable to restrain her tears . 
'Oh , he'll do that , he'll do that , said Kit . 
You mustn't be cast down , Miss Nell . 
We shall scarcely have bread to eat . 
'It's not that I may be taken back , said the boy , 'that I ask the favour of you . 
It isn't for the sake of food and wages that I've been waiting about so long in hopes to see you . 
Don't think that I'd come in a time of trouble to talk of such things as them . 
The child looked gratefully and kindly at him , but waited that he might speak again . 
'No , it's not that , said Kit hesitating , 'it's something very different from that . 
'Perhaps he mightn't think it over venturesome of me to say well then , to say this , cried Kit with sudden boldness . 
'This home is gone from you and him . 
Kit , in the relief of having made his proposition , found his tongue loosened , and spoke out in its favour with his utmost eloquence . 
'You think , said the boy , 'that it's very small and inconvenient . 
So it is , but it's very clean . 
Perhaps you think it would be noisy , but there's not a quieter court than ours in all the town . 
Don't be afraid of the children the baby hardly ever cries , and the other one is very good besides , I'd mind 'em . 
They wouldn't vex you much , I'm sure . 
Do try , Miss Nell , do try . 
The little front room up stairs is very pleasant . 
We don't mean money , bless you you're not to think of that ! Will you try him , Miss Nell ? Only say you'll try him . 
Do try to make old master come , and ask him first what I have done . 
By very slow and feeble degrees his consciousness came back but the mind was weakened and its functions were impaired . 
The child and he rode out the old man propped up with pillows , and the child beside him . 
They were hand in hand as usual . 
The noise and motion in the streets fatigued his brain at first , but he was not surprised , or curious , or pleased , or irritated . 
He was asked if he remembered this , or that . 
He was sitting in his easy chair one day , and Nell upon a stool beside him , when a man outside the door inquired if he might enter . 
'Yes , he said without emotion , 'it was Quilp , he knew . 
Of course he might come in . 
'I'm glad to see you well again at last , neighbour , said the dwarf , sitting down opposite him . 
'You're quite strong now ? 'Yes , said the old man feebly , 'yes . 
'Surely , said the old man . 
'The better for all parties . 
'You see , pursued Quilp after a short pause , 'the goods being once removed , this house would be uncomfortable uninhabitable in fact . 
'You say true , returned the old man . 
'Poor Nell too , what would she do ? 'Exactly , bawled the dwarf nodding his head 'that's very well observed . 
Then will you consider about it , neighbour ? 'I will , certainly , replied the old man . 
'We shall not stop here . 
'So I supposed , said the dwarf . 
'I have sold the things . 
They have not yielded quite as much as they might have done , but pretty well pretty well . 
When shall they be moved ? There's no hurry shall we say this afternoon ? 'Say Friday morning , returned the old man . 
'Very good , said the dwarf . 
'So be it with the understanding that I can't go beyond that day , neighbour , on any account . 
'Good , returned the old man . 
Mr Quilp seemed rather puzzled by the strange , even spiritless way in which all this was said but as the old man nodded his head and repeated 'on Friday morning . 
All that day , and all the next , the old man remained in this state . 
We call this a state of childishness , but it is the same poor hollow mockery of it , that death is of sleep . 
Send forth the child and childish man together , and blush for the pride that libels our own old happy state , and gives its title to an ugly and distorted image . 
Thursday arrived , and there was no alteration in the old man . 
But a change came upon him that evening as he and the child sat silently together . 
They suggested quiet places afar off , and rest , and peace . 
The child thought , more than once that he was moved and had forborne to speak . 
But now he shed tears tears that it lightened her aching heart to see and making as though he would fall upon his knees , besought her to forgive him . 
'Forgive you what ? said Nell , interposing to prevent his purpose . 
'Do not talk so , said the child . 
Let us speak of something else . 
'Yes , yes , we will , he rejoined . 
'It has come back upon me to day , it has all come back since we have been sitting here . 
I bless thee for it , Nell ! 'For what , dear grandfather ? 'For what you said when we were first made beggars , Nell . 
Hush ! for if they knew our purpose down stairs , they would cry that I was mad and take thee from me . 
We will not stop here another day . 
We will go far away from here . 
'Yes , let us go , said the child earnestly . 
'Let us begone from this place , and never turn back or think of it again . 
Let us wander barefoot through the world , rather than linger here . 
Thou and I together , Nell , may be cheerful and happy yet , and learn to forget this time , as if it had never been . 
'We will be happy , cried the child . 
'We never can be here . 
'No , we never can again never again that's truly said , rejoined the old man . 
'Let us steal away to morrow morning early and softly , that we may not be seen or heard and leave no trace or track for them to follow by . 
To morrow morning , dear , we'll turn our faces from this scene of sorrow , and be as free and happy as the birds . 
The child's heart beat high with hope and confidence . 
She had no thought of hunger , or cold , or thirst , or suffering . 
Sun , and stream , and meadow , and summer days , shone brightly in her view , and there was no dark tint in all the sparkling picture . 
The old man had slept , for some hours , soundly in his bed , and she was yet busily engaged in preparing for their flight . 
But this was not all her task for now she must visit the old rooms for the last time . 
And how different the parting with them was , from any she had expected , and most of all from that which she had oftenest pictured to herself . 
There were some trifles there poor useless things that she would have liked to take away but that was impossible . 
This brought to mind her bird , her poor bird , who hung there yet . 
She was calmed and comforted by the thought , and went to rest with a lighter heart . 
At length , the day began to glimmer , and the stars to grow pale and dim . 
As soon as she was sure of this , she arose , and dressed herself for the journey . 
The old man was yet asleep , and as she was unwilling to disturb him , she left him to slumber on , until the sun rose . 
He was anxious that they should leave the house without a minute's loss of time , and was soon ready . 
The child then took him by the hand , and they trod lightly and cautiously down the stairs , trembling whenever a board creaked , and often stopping to listen . 
The old man had forgotten a kind of wallet which contained the light burden he had to carry and the going back a few steps to fetch it seemed an interminable delay . 
At last they reached the passage on the ground floor , where the snoring of Mr Quilp and his legal friend sounded more terrible in their ears than the roars of lions . 
The bolts of the door were rusty , and difficult to unfasten without noise . 
When they were all drawn back , it was found to be locked , and worst of all , the key was gone . 
of his eyes distinctly visible . 
They got the door open without noise , and passing into the street , stood still . 
'Which way ? said the child . 
The old man looked , irresolutely and helplessly , first at her , then to the right and left , then at her again , and shook his head . 
It was plain that she was thenceforth his guide and leader . 
The child felt it , but had no doubts or misgiving , and putting her hand in his , led him gently away . 
It was the beginning of a day in June the deep blue sky unsullied by a cloud , and teeming with brilliant light . 
The old man and the child passed on through the glad silence , elate with hope and pleasure . 
Forth from the city , while it yet slumbered , went the two poor adventurers , wandering they knew not whither . 
D'ye know anything of it ? 'How should I know anything of it , sir ? returned Mr Brass . 
'How should you ? repeated Quilp with a sneer . 
legal knowledge in any material degree , Mr Brass humbly suggested that it must have been forgotten over night , and was , doubtless , at that moment in its native key hole . 
'That lady had begun when I came , but she knocked too soft , so I relieved her . 
As he said this , he pointed towards Mrs Quilp , who stood trembling at a little distance . 
I thought there was somebody dead here . 
'You came for some purpose , I suppose , said Quilp . 
I'm a friend of the family , sir at least I'm the friend of one of the family , and that's the same thing . 
'You'd better walk in then , said the dwarf . 
'Go on , sir , go on . 
Now , Mrs Quilp after you , ma'am . 
Mrs Quilp hesitated , but Mr Quilp insisted . 
'You seem to make yourself at home here , said Dick , who was unacquainted with Mr Quilp's authority . 
'I AM at home , young gentleman , returned the dwarf . 
'Empty , you fool ! said the dwarf . 
'I give you my word , Quilp , answered his trembling wife , 'that I have been into every room and there's not a soul in any of them . 
Nelly's very fond of me . 
Pretty Nell ! Mr Swiveller looked , as he was , all open mouthed astonishment . 
Still glancing furtively at him , Quilp turned to Mr Brass and observed , with assumed carelessness , that this need not interfere with the removal of the goods . 
'For indeed , he added , 'we knew that they'd go away to day , but not that they'd go so early , or so quietly . 
But they have their reasons , they have their reasons . 
'Where in the devil's name are they gone ? said the wondering Dick . 
Quilp shook his head , and pursed up his lips , in a manner which implied that he knew very well , but was not at liberty to say . 
'And what , said Dick , looking at the confusion about him , 'what do you mean by moving the goods ? 'That I have bought 'em , Sir , rejoined Quilp . 
In his secret heart , Daniel Quilp was both surprised and troubled by the flight which had been made . 
that he was tortured by any disinterested anxiety on behalf of either . 
In this frame of mind , it was some consolation to him to find that Richard Swiveller was , for different reasons , evidently irritated and disappointed by the same cause . 
'Well , said Dick , with a blank look , 'I suppose it's of no use my staying here . 
'Not the least in the world , rejoined the dwarf . 
'You'll mention that I called , perhaps ? said Dick . 
Mr Quilp nodded , and said he certainly would , the very first time he saw them . 
Will you have the goodness to charge yourself with that commission , Sir ? 'Certainly ! rejoined Quilp . 
Two distinct knocks , sir , will produce the slavey at any time . 
I beg your pardon will you allow me to look at that card again ? 'Oh ! by all means , rejoined Quilp . 
That is the proper document , Sir . 
Assured that it was Kit , though he saw little more than his nose , Mr Quilp hailed him by his name whereupon Kit came in and demanded what he wanted . 
'Come here , you sir , said the dwarf . 
'Well , so your old master and young mistress have gone ? 'Where ? rejoined Kit , looking round . 
'Do you mean to say you don't know where ? answered Quilp sharply . 
'Where have they gone , eh ? 'I don't know , said Kit . 
'You don't know that ? cried Quilp . 
'Don't I know that you were hanging about the house the other night , like a thief , eh ? Weren't you told then ? 'No , replied the boy . 
'You were not ? said Quilp . 
'Oh ! said the dwarf after a little consideration . 
'Then , I think they'll come to you yet . 
'Do you think they will ? cried Kit eagerly . 
'Aye , I think they will , returned the dwarf . 
'Now , when they do , let me know d'ye hear ? Let me know , and I'll give you something . 
I want to do 'em a kindness , and I can't do 'em a kindness unless I know where they are . 
'Oh no , don't do that , said Kit , stepping forward . 
'Oh yes , I dare say , cried the other boy . 
'Come ! You let the cage alone , and let me wring its neck will you ? He said I was to do it . 
You let the cage alone will you . 
'Give it here , give it to me , you dogs , roared Quilp . 
He did not stop once until he reached home , where his bleeding face occasioned great consternation , and caused the elder child to howl dreadfully . 
'Goodness gracious , Kit , what is the matter , what have you been doing ? cried Mrs Nubbles . 
'Never you mind , mother , answered her son , wiping his face on the jack towel behind the door . 
'I'm not hurt , don't you be afraid for me . 
I've been a fightin' for a bird and won him , that's all . 
Hold your noise , little Jacob . 
I never see such a naughty boy in all my days ! 'You have been fighting for a bird ! exclaimed his mother . 
It wouldn't do , mother , it wouldn't do at all . 
Ha ha ha ! Kit laughing so heartily , with his swoln and bruised face looking out of the towel , made little Jacob laugh , and then his mother laughed . 
There was no need of any caution this time , and no fear of being detained by having to play out a return match with Daniel Quilp's boy . 
The place was entirely deserted , and looked as dusty and dingy as if it had been so for months . 
It must be especially observed in justice to poor Kit that he was by no means of a sentimental turn , and perhaps had never heard that adjective in all his life . 
, he turned his thoughts to the vulgar expedient of making them more comfortable if he could . 
But on they all went , one after another , and there was not a penny stirring . 
If the old gentleman remonstrated by shaking the reins , the pony replied by shaking his head . 
As they passed where he sat , Kit looked so wistfully at the little turn out , that the old gentleman looked at him . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , said Kit . 
'I'm sorry you stopped , sir . 
I only meant did you want your horse minded . 
'I'm going to get down in the next street , returned the old gentleman . 
'If you like to come on after us , you may have the job . 
Kit thanked him , and joyfully obeyed . 
Having satisfied himself that they were of the same pattern and materials , he came to a stop apparently absorbed in meditation . 
'Oh you naughty Whisker , said the old lady . 
'Fie upon you ! I'm ashamed of such conduct . 
They went , as it was easy to tell from the sound of their voices , into the front parlour , which seemed to be a kind of office . 
The day being very warm and the street a quiet one , the windows were wide open and it was easy to hear through the Venetian blinds all that passed inside . 
'I brought it in honour of the occasion , Sir , said the old lady . 
'Ah ! an occasion indeed , ma'am , an occasion which does honour to me , ma'am , honour to me , rejoined Mr Witherden , the notary . 
'I have had many a gentleman articled to me , ma'am , many a one . 
'Oh dear ! said the old lady . 
I agree with the poet in every particular , ma'am . 
The mountainous Alps on the one hand , or a humming bird on the other , is nothing , in point of workmanship , to an honest man or woman or woman . 
'Anything that Mr Witherden can say of me , observed a small quiet voice , 'I can say , with interest , of him , I am sure . 
'It's a happy circumstance , a truly happy circumstance , said the Notary , 'to happen too upon his eight and twentieth birthday , and I hope I know how to appreciate it . 
I trust , Mr Garland , my dear Sir , that we may mutually congratulate each other upon this auspicious occasion . 
To this the old gentleman replied that he felt assured they might . 
'Of course it is , I have no doubt of it , returned the Notary in a sympathising voice . 
'It's the contemplation of this sort of thing , that makes me deplore my fate in being a bachelor . 
There was a young lady once , sir , the daughter of an outfitting warehouse of the first respectability but that's a weakness . 
Chuckster , bring in Mr Abel's articles . 
'You see , Mr Witherden , said the old lady , 'that Abel has not been brought up like the run of young men . 
He has always had a pleasure in our society , and always been with us . 
'He was not used to it , you know , said the old lady , 'and he couldn't bear it , that's the truth . 
Besides he had no comfort in being there without us , and had nobody to talk to or enjoy himself with . 
'That was it , you know , interposed the same small quiet voice that had spoken once before . 
'Mr Abel's feelings did credit to his nature , and credit to your nature , ma'am , and his father's nature , and human nature . 
I trace the same current now , flowing through all his quiet and unobtrusive proceedings . 
Mr Abel will place his name against the other wafer , repeating the same cabalistic words , and the business is over . 
appeared at the door , and condescending to address Kit by the jocose appellation of 'Young Snob , informed him that the visitors were coming out . 
In all other respects , in the neatness of the dress , and even in the club foot , he and the old gentleman were precisely alike . 
He had no sixpence , neither had the old lady , nor Mr Abel , nor the Notary , nor Mr Chuckster . 
The old gentleman thought a shilling too much , but there was no shop in the street to get change at , so he gave it to the boy . 
'There , he said jokingly , 'I'm coming here again next Monday at the same time , and mind you're here , my lad , to work it out . 
'Thank you , Sir , said Kit . 
'I'll be sure to be here . 
He was quite serious , but they all laughed heartily at his saying so , especially Mr Chuckster , who roared outright and appeared to relish the joke amazingly . 
trotted away pretty nimbly , Kit had no time to justify himself , and went his way also . 
It was enough to leave dumb things behind , and objects that were insensible both to her love and sorrow . 
To have parted from her only other friend upon the threshold of that wild journey , would have wrung her heart indeed . 
Men in their dungeons stretched their cramp cold limbs and cursed the stone that no bright sky could warm . 
The flowers that sleep by night , opened their gentle eyes and turned them to the day . 
The light , creation's mind , was everywhere , and all things owned its power . 
The two pilgrims , often pressing each other's hands , or exchanging a smile or cheerful look , pursued their way in silence . 
Some straggling carts and coaches rumbling by , first broke the charm , then others came , then others yet more active , then a crowd . 
This quarter passed , they came upon the haunts of commerce and great traffic , where many people were resorting , and business was already rife . 
The old man looked about him with a startled and bewildered gaze , for these were places that he hoped to shun . 
The shops sold goods that only poverty could buy , and sellers and buyers were pinched and griped alike . 
This was a wide , wide track for the humble followers of the camp of wealth pitch their tents round about it for many a mile but its character was still the same . 
She had had the precaution to furnish her basket with some slices of bread and meat , and here they made their frugal breakfast . 
The old man took off his hat he had no memory for the words but he said amen , and that they were very good . 
As she looked back upon the place they had left , one part of it came strongly on her mind . 
'No never to return never to return' replied the old man , waving his hand towards the city . 
'Thou and I are free of it now , Nell . 
They shall never lure us back . 
'Let us be stirring , Nell . 
We must be further away a long , long way further . 
We are too near to stop , and be at rest . 
Come ! There was a pool of clear water in the field , in which the child laved her hands and face , and cooled her feet before setting forth to walk again . 
'I can do nothing for myself , my darling , said the grandfather 'I don't know how it is , I could once , but the time's gone . 
Don't leave me , Nell say that thou'lt not leave me . 
I loved thee all the while , indeed I did . 
If I lose thee too , my dear , I must die ! He laid his head upon her shoulder and moaned piteously . 
The time had been , and a very few days before , when the child could not have restrained her tears and must have wept with him . 
But now she soothed him with gentle and tender words , smiled at his thinking they could ever part , and rallied him cheerfully upon the jest . 
He was soon calmed and fell asleep , singing to himself in a low voice , like a little child . 
He awoke refreshed , and they continued their journey . 
The road was pleasant , lying between beautiful pastures and fields of corn , about which , poised high in the clear blue sky , the lark trilled out her happy song . 
The air came laden with the fragrance it caught upon its way , and the bees , upborne upon its scented breath , hummed forth their drowsy satisfaction as they floated by . 
They were now in the open country the houses were very few and scattered at long intervals , often miles apart . 
Then came the trim hedged fields on either hand , and the open road again . 
They walked all day , and slept that night at a small cottage where beds were let to travellers . 
Next morning they were afoot again , and though jaded at first , and very tired , recovered before long and proceeded briskly forward . 
They often stopped to rest , but only for a short space at a time , and still kept on , having had but slight refreshment since the morning . 
It was not easy to determine , for she was timid and fearful of being repulsed . 
Here was a crying child , and there a noisy wife . 
In this , the people seemed too poor in that , too many . 
There were besides , the cottager and his wife , and three young sturdy children , brown as berries . 
The request was no sooner preferred , than granted . 
'From London ? inquired the old man . 
Ah ! He had been in London many a time used to go there often once , with waggons . 
It was nigh two and thirty year since he had been there last , and he did hear say there were great changes . 
Like enough ! He had changed , himself , since then . 
'Sit thee down , master , in the elbow chair , said the old man , knocking his stick upon the brick floor , and trying to do so sharply . 
He shook his head , and looking at his daughter with watery eyes , said she needn't be afraid that he was going to talk about that , any more . 
He didn't wish to trouble nobody , and if he had troubled anybody by what he said , he asked pardon , that was all . 
The milk arrived , and the child producing her little basket , and selecting its best fragments for her grandfather , they made a hearty meal . 
But everything was clean and neat , and as the child glanced round , she felt a tranquil air of comfort and content to which she had long been unaccustomed . 
'How far is it to any town or village ? she asked of the husband . 
'Further on , further on , darling , further away if we walk till midnight . 
'There's a good barn hard by , master , said the man , 'or there's travellers' lodging , I know , at the Plow an' Harrer . 
Excuse me , but you do seem a little tired , and unless you're very anxious to get on 'Yes , yes , we are , returned the old man fretfully . 
'Further away , dear Nell , pray further away . 
'We must go on , indeed , said the child , yielding to his restless wish . 
'We thank you very much , but we cannot stop so soon . 
I'm quite ready , grandfather . 
The driver on coming up to them stopped his horse and looked earnestly at Nell . 
'Didn't you stop to rest at a cottage yonder ? he said . 
'Yes , sir , replied the child . 
'Ah ! They asked me to look out for you , said the man . 
Give me your hand jump up , master . 
This was a great relief , for they were very much fatigued and could scarcely crawl along . 
To them the jolting cart was a luxurious carriage , and the ride the most delicious in the world . 
Nell had scarcely settled herself on a little heap of straw in one corner , when she fell asleep , for the first time that day . 
She was awakened by the stopping of the cart , which was about to turn up a bye lane . 
Accordingly , towards this spot , they directed their weary steps . 
The church was old and grey , with ivy clinging to the walls , and round the porch . 
The old man and the child quitted the gravel path , and strayed among the tombs for there the ground was soft , and easy to their tired feet . 
As they passed behind the church , they heard voices near at hand , and presently came on those who had spoken . 
They were two men who were seated in easy attitudes upon the grass , and so busily engaged as to be at first unconscious of intruders . 
In part scattered upon the ground at the feet of the two men , and in part jumbled together in a long flat box , were the other persons of the Drama . 
They raised their eyes when the old man and his young companion were close upon them , and pausing in their work , returned their looks of curiosity . 
The other that was he who took the money had rather a careful and cautious look , which was perhaps inseparable from his occupation also . 
'Why do you come here to do this ? said the old man , sitting down beside them , and looking at the figures with extreme delight . 
'Would you care a ha'penny for the Lord Chancellor if you know'd him in private and without his wig ? certainly not . 
'Good ! said the old man , venturing to touch one of the puppets , and drawing away his hand with a shrill laugh . 
Cheer up , Tommy , it can't be much . 
The little man accompanied these latter words with a wink , expressive of the estimate he had formed of the travellers' finances . 
If you stood in front of the curtain and see the public's faces as I do , you'd know human natur' better . 
'Ah ! it's been the spoiling of you , Tommy , your taking to that branch , rejoined his companion . 
'When you played the ghost in the reg'lar drama in the fairs , you believed in everything except ghosts . 
But now you're a universal mistruster . 
I never see a man so changed . 
'Never mind , said Mr Codlin , with the air of a discontented philosopher . 
'I know better now , and p'raps I'm sorry for it . 
You haven't got a needle and thread I suppose ? The little man shook his head , and scratched it ruefully as he contemplated this severe indisposition of a principal performer . 
Seeing that they were at a loss , the child said timidly 'I have a needle , Sir , in my basket , and thread too . 
Will you let me try to mend it for you ? I think I could do it neater than you could . 
Even Mr Codlin had nothing to urge against a proposal so seasonable . 
Nelly , kneeling down beside the box , was soon busily engaged in her task , and accomplishing it to a miracle . 
While she was thus engaged , the merry little man looked at her with an interest which did not appear to be diminished when he glanced at her helpless companion . 
When she had finished her work he thanked her , and inquired whither they were travelling . 
'N no further to night , I think , said the child , looking towards her grandfather . 
'If you're wanting a place to stop at , the man remarked , 'I should advise you to take up at the same house with us . 
The long , low , white house there . 
The old man , notwithstanding his fatigue , would have remained in the churchyard all night if his new acquaintances had remained there too . 
There was no other company in the kitchen but the two showmen , and the child felt very thankful that they had fallen upon such good quarters . 
The landlady was very much astonished to learn that they had come all the way from London , and appeared to have no little curiosity touching their farther destination . 
The child parried her inquiries as well as she could , and with no great trouble , for finding that they appeared to give her pain , the old lady desisted . 
'These two gentlemen have ordered supper in an hour's time , she said , taking her into the bar 'and your best plan will be to sup with them . 
Meanwhile you shall have a little taste of something that'll do you good , for I'm sure you must want it after all you've gone through to day . 
Now , don't look after the old gentleman , because when you've drank that , he shall have some too . 
Among the laughter none was more loud and frequent than the old man's . 
The supper was very good , but she was too tired to eat , and yet would not leave the old man until she had kissed him in his bed . 
It was but a loft partitioned into two compartments , where they were to rest , but they were well pleased with their lodging and had hoped for none so good . 
The old man was uneasy when he had lain down , and begged that Nell would come and sit at his bedside as she had done for so many nights . 
She hastened to him , and sat there till he slept . 
The sight of the old church , and the graves about it in the moonlight , and the dark trees whispering among themselves , made her more thoughtful than before . 
She closed the window again , and sitting down upon the bed , thought of the life that was before them . 
She had a little money , but it was very little , and when that was gone , they must begin to beg . 
There was one piece of gold among it , and an emergency might come when its worth to them would be increased a hundred fold . 
It would be best to hide this coin , and never produce it unless their case was absolutely desperate , and no other resource was left them . 
Her resolution taken , she sewed the piece of gold into her dress , and going to bed with a lighter heart sunk into a deep slumber . 
CHAPTER Another bright day shining in through the small casement , and claiming fellowship with the kindred eyes of the child , awoke her . 
But , another glance around called to her mind all that had lately passed , and she sprung from her bed , hoping and trustful . 
, passing on from one to another with increasing interest . 
Everything told of long use and quiet slow decay the very bell rope in the porch was frayed into a fringe , and hoary with old age . 
The old woman thanked her when she had done , saying that she had had the words by heart for many a long , long year , but could not see them now . 
'Were you his mother ? said the child . 
'I was his wife , my dear . 
She the wife of a young man of three and twenty ! Ah , true ! It was fifty five years ago . 
'You wonder to hear me say that , remarked the old woman , shaking her head . 
Older folk than you have wondered at the same thing before now . 
Yes , I was his wife . 
Death doesn't change us more than life , my dear . 
'Do you come here often ? asked the child . 
'I like no flowers so well as these , and haven't for five and fifty years . 
It's a long time , and I'm getting very old . 
The child left her gathering the flowers that grew upon the grave , and thoughtfully retraced her steps . 
The old man was by this time up and dressed . 
When he had sufficiently acknowledged his popularity he came in to breakfast , at which meal they all sat down together . 
'And where are you going to day ? said the little man , addressing himself to Nell . 
'Indeed I hardly know we have not determined yet , replied the child . 
'We're going on to the races , said the little man . 
'If that's your way and you like to have us for company , let us travel together . 
If you prefer going alone , only say the word and you'll find that we shan't trouble you . 
'We'll go with you , said the old man . 
'Nell with them , with them . 
'Now be gracious for once , Tommy , and say that you'd rather they went with us . 
'Trotters , said Mr Codlin , who talked very slowly and ate very greedily , as is not uncommon with philosophers and misanthropes 'you're too free . 
'Why what harm can it do ? urged the other . 
'No harm at all in this particular case , perhaps , replied Mr Codlin 'but the principle's a dangerous one , and you're too free I tell you . 
divided the sum total into two fair and equal parts , assigning one moiety to himself and friend , and the other to Nelly and her grandfather . 
These being duly discharged and all things ready for their departure , they took farewell of the landlord and landlady and resumed their journey . 
Mr Codlin trudged heavily on , exchanging a word or two at intervals with Short , and stopping to rest and growl occasionally . 
tied up in a bundle , and a brazen trumpet slung from his shoulder blade . 
Nell and her grandfather walked next him on either hand , and Thomas Codlin brought up the rear . 
If people hurried to the windows , Mr Codlin pitched the temple , and hastily unfurling the drapery and concealing Short therewith , flourished hysterically on the pipes and performed an air . 
When it had been gathered in to the last farthing , he resumed his load and on they went again . 
They made a long day's journey , despite these interruptions , and were yet upon the road when the moon was shining in the sky . 
Short beguiled the time with songs and jests , and made the best of everything that happened . 
, and limped along with the theatre on his back , a prey to the bitterest chagrin . 
'It's Grinder's lot , an't it ? cried Mr Short in a loud key . 
'Yes , replied a couple of shrill voices . 
'Come on then , said Short . 
'Let's have a look at you . 
I thought it was you . 
Thus invited , 'Grinder's lot' approached with redoubled speed and soon came up with the little party . 
Their Scotch bonnets , ornamented with plumes of jet black feathers , Mr Grinder carried on his instrument . 
'Bound for the races , I see , said Mr Grinder coming up out of breath . 
How are you , Short ? With that they shook hands in a very friendly manner . 
The young people being too high up for the ordinary salutations , saluted Short after their own fashion . 
The young gentleman twisted up his right stilt and patted him on the shoulder , and the young lady rattled her tambourine . 
'Practice ? said Short , pointing to the stilts . 
'It comes either to walkin' in 'em or carryin' of 'em , and they like walkin' in 'em best . 
It's wery pleasant for the prospects . 
Which road are you takin' ? We go the nighest . 
'Why , the fact is , said Short , 'that we are going the longest way , because then we could stop for the night , a mile and a half on . 
But three or four mile gained to night is so many saved to morrow , and if you keep on , I think our best way is to do the same . 
'Where's your partner ? inquired Grinder . 
'Well , don't say such things as them , in a spear which is dewoted to something pleasanter , urged Short . 
'Respect associations , Tommy , even if you do cut up rough . 
I put up at the Jolly Sandboys and nowhere else . 
If you like to come there , come there . 
If you like to go on by yourself , go on by yourself , and do without me if you can . 
So saying , Mr Codlin disappeared from the scene and immediately presented himself outside the theatre , took it on his shoulders at a jerk , and made off with most remarkable agility . 
Any further controversy being now out of the question , Short was fain to part with Mr Grinder and his pupils and to follow his morose companion . 
'All alone ? said Mr Codlin , putting down his burden and wiping his forehead . 
'All alone as yet , rejoined the landlord , glancing at the sky , 'but we shall have more company to night I expect . 
Here one of you boys , carry that show into the barn . 
Mr Codlin followed with a willing mind , and soon found that the landlord had not commended his preparations without good reason . 
He sat down in the chimney corner and smiled . 
'At what time will it be ready ? asked Mr Codlin faintly . 
'Then , said Mr Codlin , 'fetch me a pint of warm ale , and don't let nobody bring into the room even so much as a biscuit till the time arrives . 
This was soon done , and he handed it over to Mr Codlin with that creamy froth upon the surface which is one of the happy circumstances attendant on mulled malt . 
Greatly softened by this soothing beverage , Mr Codlin now bethought him of his companions , and acquainted mine host of the Sandboys that their arrival might be shortly looked for . 
Overpowered by the warmth and comfort and the fatigue they had undergone , Nelly and the old man had not long taken their seats here , when they fell asleep . 
'Who are they ? whispered the landlord . 
Short shook his head , and wished he knew himself . 
'Don't you know ? asked the host , turning to Mr Codlin . 
'Not I , he replied . 
'They're no good , I suppose . 
'They're no harm , said Short . 
'Here me out , won't you ? retorted his friend . 
'It's very plain to me , besides , that they're not used to this way of life . 
Don't tell me that that handsome child has been in the habit of prowling about as she's done these last two or three days . 
Have you seen how anxious the old man is to get on always wanting to be furder away furder away . 
Have you seen that ? 'Ah ! what then ? muttered Thomas Codlin . 
'This , then , said Short . 
'He has given his friends the slip . 
Now I'm not a going to stand that . 
'Here's a world to live in ! 'I , repeated Short emphatically and slowly , 'am not a going to stand it . 
Neither Short nor the landlord nor Thomas Codlin , however , was in the least surprised , merely remarking that these were Jerry's dogs and that Jerry could not be far behind . 
This posture it must be confessed did not much improve their appearance , as their own personal tails and their coat tails both capital things in their way did not agree together . 
'Your people don't usually travel in character , do they ? said Short , pointing to the dresses of the dogs . 
'It must come expensive if they do ? 'No , replied Jerry , 'no , it's not the custom with us . 
'Ah ! cried Short , 'let's have a look at him . 
'Here he is , said Jerry , producing a little terrier from his pocket . 
At length the dish was lifted on the table , and mugs of ale having been previously set round , little Nell ventured to say grace , and supper began . 
'No , my dear , no , not an atom from anybody's hand but mine if you please . 
That dog , said Jerry , pointing out the old leader of the troop , and speaking in a terrible voice , 'lost a halfpenny to day . 
He goes without his supper . 
The unfortunate creature dropped upon his fore legs directly , wagged his tail , and looked imploringly at his master . 
'You must be more careful , Sir , said Jerry , walking coolly to the chair where he had placed the organ , and setting the stop . 
Now , Sir , you play away at that , while we have supper , and leave off if you dare . 
The dog immediately began to grind most mournful music . 
'Now , gentlemen , said Jerry , looking at them attentively . 
'The dog whose name's called , eats . 
The dogs whose names an't called , keep quiet . 
Carlo ! The lucky individual whose name was called , snapped up the morsel thrown towards him , but none of the others moved a muscle . 
In this manner they were fed at the discretion of their master . 
Meanwhile the dog in disgrace ground hard at the organ , sometimes in quick time , sometimes in slow , but never leaving off for an instant . 
The name of the first of these newcomers was Vuffin the other , probably as a pleasant satire upon his ugliness , was called Sweet William . 
To render them as comfortable as he could , the landlord bestirred himself nimbly , and in a very short time both gentlemen were perfectly at their ease . 
'How's the Giant ? said Short , when they all sat smoking round the fire . 
'Rather weak upon his legs , returned Mr Vuffin . 
'I begin to be afraid he's going at the knees . 
'That's a bad look out , said Short . 
'Aye ! Bad indeed , replied Mr Vuffin , contemplating the fire with a sigh . 
'Once get a giant shaky on his legs , and the public care no more about him than they do for a dead cabbage stalk . 
'What becomes of old giants ? said Short , turning to him again after a little reflection . 
'They're usually kept in carawans to wait upon the dwarfs , said Mr Vuffin . 
'The maintaining of 'em must come expensive , when they can't be shown , eh ? remarked Short , eyeing him doubtfully . 
'It's better that , than letting 'em go upon the parish or about the streets , said Mr Vuffin . 
'Once make a giant common and giants will never draw again . 
If there was only one man with a wooden leg what a property he'd be ! 'So he would ! observed the landlord and Short both together . 
'Instead of which , pursued Mr Vuffin , 'if you was to advertise Shakspeare played entirely by wooden legs , it's my belief you wouldn't draw a sixpence . 
'I don't suppose you would , said Short . 
And the landlord said so too . 
There was one giant a black 'un as left his carawan some year ago and took to carrying coach bills about London , making himself as cheap as crossing sweepers . 
I make no insinuation against anybody in particular , said Mr Vuffin , looking solemnly round , 'but he was ruining the trade and he died . 
The landlord drew his breath hard , and looked at the owner of the dogs , who nodded and said gruffly that he remembered . 
'I know you do , Jerry , said Mr Vuffin with profound meaning . 
'I know you remember it , Jerry , and the universal opinion was , that it served him right . 
I know that's a fact , for Maunders told it me himself . 
'What about the dwarfs when they get old ? inquired the landlord . 
'The older a dwarf is , the better worth he is , returned Mr Vuffin 'a grey headed dwarf , well wrinkled , is beyond all suspicion . 
After bidding the old man good night , Nell retired to her poor garret , but had scarcely closed the door , when it was gently tapped at . 
She opened it directly , and was a little startled by the sight of Mr Thomas Codlin , whom she had left , to all appearance , fast asleep down stairs . 
'What is the matter ? said the child . 
'Nothing's the matter , my dear , returned her visitor . 
Perhaps you haven't thought so , but it's me that's your friend not him . 
'Not who ? the child inquired . 
I tell you what , said Codlin , 'for all his having a kind of way with him that you'd be very apt to like , I'm the real , open hearted man . 
I mayn't look it , but I am indeed . 
The child began to be alarmed , considering that the ale had taken effect upon Mr Codlin , and that this commendation of himself was the consequence . 
'Short's very well , and seems kind , resumed the misanthrope , 'but he overdoes it . 
Certainly if there were any fault in Mr Codlin's usual deportment , it was that he rather underdid his kindness to those about him , than overdid it . 
But the child was puzzled , and could not tell what to say . 
'Take my advice , said Codlin 'don't ask me why , but take it . 
As long as you travel with us , keep as near me as you can . 
Don't offer to leave us not on any account but always stick to me and say that I'm your friend . 
Will you bear that in mind , my dear , and always say that it was me that was your friend ? 'Say so where and when ? inquired the child innocently . 
'O , nowhere in particular , replied Codlin , a little put out as it seemed by the question 'I'm only anxious that you should think me so , and do me justice . 
You can't think what an interest I have in you . 
I think they're breaking up down stairs you needn't tell Short , you know , that we've had this little talk together . 
Codlin's the friend , not Short . 
Short's very well as far as he goes , but the real friend is Codlin not Short . 
She was still ruminating upon his curious behaviour , when the floor of the crazy stairs and landing cracked beneath the tread of the other travellers who were passing to their beds . 
'Yes , said the child from within . 
'It's me Short' a voice called through the keyhole . 
You'll be sure to be stirring early and go with us ? I'll call you . 
The child answered in the affirmative , and returning his 'good night' heard him creep away . 
Her uneasiness , however , was nothing , weighed against her fatigue and she soon forgot it in sleep . 
Surrounded by these influences , they walked on pleasantly enough . 
Even Short seemed to change in this respect , and to mingle with his good nature something of a desire to keep them in safe custody . 
This increased the child's misgivings , and made her yet more anxious and uneasy . 
It was dark before they reached the town itself , and long indeed the few last miles had been . 
And now they had come to the time when they must beg their bread . 
You needn't speak , dear . 
I recollect it very well . 
It was not likely that I should forget it . 
Grandfather , these men suspect that we have secretly left our friends , and mean to carry us before some gentleman and have us taken care of and sent back . 
If you let your hand tremble so , we can never get away from them , but if you're only quiet now , we shall do so , easily . 
'How ? muttered the old man . 
'Keep close to me all day . 
Never mind them , don't look at them , but me . 
I shall find a time when we can steal away . 
When I do , mind you come with me , and do not stop or speak a word . 
'Halloa ! what are you up to , my dear ? said Mr Codlin , raising his head , and yawning . 
Then observing that his companion was fast asleep , he added in an earnest whisper , 'Codlin's the friend , remember not Short . 
'Making some nosegays , the child replied 'I am going to try and sell some , these three days of the races . 
Will you have one as a present I mean ? Mr Codlin would have risen to receive it , but the child hurried towards him and placed it in his hand . 
, and left her to herself . 
At length , late in the day , Mr Codlin pitched the show in a convenient spot , and the spectators were soon in the very triumph of the scene . 
If they were ever to get away unseen , that was the very moment . 
If they were ever to get away unseen , that was the very moment . 
They seized it , and fled . 
They made a path through booths and carriages and throngs of people , and never once stopped to look behind . 
'I think they must certainly come to morrow , eh mother ? said Kit , laying aside his hat with a weary air and sighing as he spoke . 
'They have been gone a week . 
They surely couldn't stop away more than a week , could they now ? The mother shook her head , and reminded him how often he had been disappointed already . 
'For the matter of that , said Kit , 'you speak true and sensible enough , as you always do , mother . 
Kit was for a moment disposed to be vexed by this contradiction , and not the less so from having anticipated it in his own mind and knowing how just it was . 
But the impulse was only momentary , and the vexed look became a kind one before it had crossed the room . 
'But I can't help thinking that they have gone to some foreign country . 
'I say , cried Kit with a rueful face , 'don't talk like that , mother . 
'I am afraid they have , and that's the truth , she said . 
'I don't believe it , said Kit . 
'Not a word of it . 
Greatly relieved to find that he was not too late , Kit leant against a lamp post to take breath , and waited the advent of the pony and his charge . 
Behind the pony sat the little old gentleman , and by the old gentleman's side sat the little old lady , carrying just such a nosegay as she had brought before . 
'Now , Sir , will you ha' the goodness to go on this is not the place , said the old gentleman . 
The pony looked with great attention into a fire plug which was near him , and appeared to be quite absorbed in contemplating it . 
'Oh dear , such a naughty Whisker cried the old lady . 
'After being so good too , and coming along so well ! I am quite ashamed of him . 
I don't know what we are to do with him , I really don't . 
It was then that Kit presented himself at the pony's head , and touched his hat with a smile . 
'I hope you've had a pleasant ride , sir . 
He's a very nice little pony . 
'My dear , said the old gentleman . 
'This is an uncommon lad a good lad , I'm sure . 
'I'm sure he is , rejoined the old lady . 
'A very good lad , and I am sure he is a good son . 
Kit acknowledged these expressions of confidence by touching his hat again and blushing very much . 
Therefore he patted the pony more and more and this liberty the pony most handsomely permitted . 
was 'precious raw' or 'precious deep , but intimated by a distrustful shake of the head , that he inclined to the latter opinion . 
Mr Witherden too was a bustling gentleman who talked loud and fast , and all eyes were upon him , and he was very shabby . 
'I never thought of such a thing . 
'Father alive ? said the Notary . 
'Mother ? 'Yes , sir . 
Kit told him , and the old gentleman wrote down the address with his pencil . 
By these means Mr Chuckster was pushed and hustled to the office again , in a most inglorious manner , and arrived in a state of great exhaustion and discomfiture . 
'We are here before you , you see , Christopher , said Mr Garland smiling . 
'Yes , sir , said Kit and as he said it , he looked towards his mother for an explanation of the visit . 
, within whose personal knowledge the circumstances had occurred . 
It would be difficult to say which party appeared most pleased with this arrangement , the conclusion of which was hailed with nothing but pleasant looks and cheerful smiles on both sides . 
'Well , mother , said Kit , hurrying back into the house , 'I think my fortune's about made now . 
'I should think it was indeed , Kit , rejoined his mother . 
'What's that about six pound a year ? What about six pound a year ? And as the voice made this inquiry , Daniel Quilp walked in with Richard Swiveller at his heels . 
'Who said he was to have six pound a year ? said Quilp , looking sharply round . 
'Don't be frightened , mistress , said Quilp , after a pause . 
'Your son knows me I don't eat babies I don't like 'em . 
It will be as well to stop that young screamer though , in case I should be tempted to do him a mischief . 
Holloa , sir ! Will you be quiet ? Little Jacob stemmed the course of two tears which he was squeezing out of his eyes , and instantly subsided into a silent horror . 
'Mind you don't break out again , you villain , said Quilp , looking sternly at him , 'or I'll make faces at you and throw you into fits , I will . 
Now you sir , why haven't you been to me as you promised ? 'What should I come for ? retorted Kit . 
'I hadn't any business with you , no more than you had with me . 
'Here , mistress , said Quilp , turning quickly away , and appealing from Kit to his mother . 
'When did his old master come or send here last ? Is he here now ? If not , where's he gone ? 'He has not been here at all , she replied . 
'I wish we knew where they have gone , for it would make my son a good deal easier in his mind , and me too . 
If you're the gentleman named Mr Quilp , I should have thought you'd have known , and so I told him only this very day . 
'Humph ! muttered Quilp , evidently disappointed to believe that this was true . 
Quilp glanced at Richard Swiveller , and observed that having met him on the threshold , he assumed that he had come in search of some intelligence of the fugitives . 
He supposed he was right ? 'Yes , said Dick , 'that was the object of the present expedition . 
I fancied it possible but let us go ring fancy's knell . 
'You seem disappointed , observed Quilp . 
'A baffler , Sir , a baffler , that's all , returned Dick . 
'I have entered upon a speculation which has proved a baffler and a Being of brightness and beauty will be offered up a sacrifice at Cheggs's altar . 
He had no sooner adopted this resolution , than he conveyed as much honesty into his face as it was capable of expressing , and sympathised with Mr Swiveller exceedingly . 
'Why , of course it does , Dick observed , testily . 
'Upon my word , I'm very sorry , very sorry . 
I'm rather cast down myself . 
This they did , straightway . 
The moment their backs were turned , little Jacob thawed , and resumed his crying from the point where Quilp had frozen him . 
Its internal accommodations amply fulfilled the promise of the outside . 
This feat accomplished he drew himself together in his former position , and laughed excessively . 
Let's have a beauty for our toast and empty our glasses to the last drop . 
Her name , come ! 'If you want a name , said Dick , 'here's Sophy Wackles . 
Immolating herself upon the shrine of Cheggs 'Poison Cheggs , cut Cheggs's ears off , rejoined Quilp . 
'I won't hear of Cheggs . 
Her name is Swiveller or nothing . 
'That's the thing , that's the thing . 
It can be brought about , it shall be brought about . 
There's my hand upon it I am your friend from this minute . 
'What ! do you think there's still a chance ? inquired Dick , in surprise at this encouragement . 
'A chance ! echoed the dwarf , 'a certainty ! Sophy Wackles may become a Cheggs or anything else she likes , but not a Swiveller . 
Oh you lucky dog ! He's richer than any Jew alive you're a made man . 
I see in you now nothing but Nelly's husband , rolling in gold and silver . 
Mind my words , it shall be done . 
'But how ? said Dick . 
'There's plenty of time , rejoined the dwarf , 'and it shall be done . 
We'll sit down and talk it over again all the way through . 
Fill your glass while I'm gone . 
I shall be back directly directly . 
With these hasty words , Daniel Quilp withdrew into a dismantled skittle ground behind the public house , and , throwing himself upon the ground actually screamed and rolled about in uncontrollable delight . 
'Here's sport ! he cried , 'sport ready to my hand , all invented and arranged , and only to be enjoyed . 
Ha ha ha ! He shall marry Nell . 
He shall have her , and I'll be the first man , when the knot's tied hard and fast , to tell 'em what they've gained and what I've helped 'em to . 
Here will be a clearing of old scores , here will be a time to remind 'em what a capital friend I was , and how I helped them to the heiress . 
'You're afraid , you bully , you're afraid , you know you are . 
The dog tore and strained at his chain with starting eyes and furious bark , but there the dwarf lay , snapping his fingers with gestures of defiance and contempt . 
'No doubt about it , returned Kit , with a serious look 'upon my word , mother , I don't think it was right to trust it to itself . 
Somebody ought to have gone with it , I'm afraid . 
'We can't help it now , said his mother 'but it was foolish and wrong . 
People oughtn't to be tempted . 
Kit inwardly resolved that he would never tempt a carrier any more , save with an empty box and having formed this Christian determination , he turned his thoughts to the second question . 
'YOU know you must keep up your spirits , mother , and not be lonesome because I'm not at home . 
'I hope plays mayn't be sinful , Kit , but I'm a'most afraid , said Mrs Nubbles . 
'I know who has been putting that in your head , rejoined her son disconsolately 'that's Little Bethel again . 
'Oh , Kit , don't talk like that . 
After recovering twice or thrice , and as often relapsing , he wiped his eyes and said grace and a very cheerful meal their scanty supper was . 
Receiving from the wife of this immaculate man , a direction to Mr Garland's , he took the box upon his shoulder and repaired thither directly . 
On one side of the house was a little stable , just the size for the pony , with a little room over it , just the size for Kit . 
Everything within the house and without , seemed to be the perfection of neatness and order . 
He rang the bell a great many times , and yet nobody came . 
'I suppose you're Christopher , sir , said the servant girl . 
Kit got off the box , and said yes , he was . 
'I'm afraid you've rung a good many times perhaps , she rejoined , 'but we couldn't hear you , because we've been catching the pony . 
dodged the family round a small paddock in the rear , for one hour and three quarters . 
All these kindnesses , Kit acknowledged with various expressions of gratitude , and so many touches of the new hat , that the brim suffered considerably . 
instructed her to take him down stairs and give him something to eat and drink , after his walk . 
Barbara's little looking glass hung in a good light near the window , and Barbara's bonnet was on a nail behind the door . 
'You have deceived an orphan , Sir , said Mr Swiveller solemnly . 
'I ! I'm a second father to you , replied Quilp . 
'You my father , Sir ! retorted Dick . 
'Being all right myself , Sir , I request to be left alone instantly , Sir . 
'What a funny fellow you are ! cried Quilp . 
'Go , Sir , returned Dick , leaning against a post and waving his hand . 
'Go , deceiver , go , some day , Sir , p'r'aps you'll waken , from pleasure's dream to know , the grief of orphans forsaken . 
Will you go , Sir ? The dwarf taking no heed of this adjuration , Mr Swiveller advanced with the view of inflicting upon him condign chastisement . 
And then they went on arm in arm , very lovingly together . 
'I'm as sharp , said Quilp to him , at parting , 'as sharp as a ferret , and as cunning as a weazel . 
and you've both of you made your fortunes in perspective . 
'That's the worst of it , returned Dick . 
'These fortunes in perspective look such a long way off . 
'But they look smaller than they really are , on that account , said Quilp , pressing his arm . 
'You'll have no conception of the value of your prize until you draw close to it . 
'D'ye think not ? said Dick . 
'Aye , I do and I am certain of what I say , that's better , returned the dwarf . 
'You bring Trent to me . 
'I not a choice spirit ? cried Quilp . 
'Devil a bit , sir , returned Dick . 
'A man of your appearance couldn't be . 
If you're any spirit at all , sir , you're an evil spirit . 
Choice spirits , added Dick , smiting himself on the breast , 'are quite a different looking sort of people , you may take your oath of that , sir . 
, and recounted by very slow degrees what had yesterday taken place between him and Quilp . 
Nor was it without great surprise and much speculation on Quilp's probable motives , nor without many bitter comments on Dick Swiveller's folly , that his friend received the tale . 
If you had seen him drink and smoke , as I did , you couldn't have kept anything from him . 
He's a Salamander you know , that's what he is . 
The dwarf had twice encountered him when he was endeavouring to obtain intelligence of the fugitives . 
, and giving him the day to recover himself from his late salamandering , accompanied him at evening to Mr Quilp's house . 
Nothing of this appeared , however . 
On the contrary , Mr Quilp was all blandness and suavity , and presided over the case bottle of rum with extraordinary open heartedness . 
'Why , let me see , said Quilp . 
'It must be a matter of nearly two years since we were first acquainted . 
'Nearer three , I think , said Trent . 
'Nearer three ! cried Quilp . 
Does it seem as long as that to you , Mrs Quilp ? 'Yes , I think it seems full three years , Quilp , was the unfortunate reply . 
'Oh indeed , ma'am , thought Quilp , 'you have been pining , have you ? Very good , ma'am . 
'It seems to me but yesterday that you went out to Demerara in the Mary Anne , said Quilp 'but yesterday , I declare . 
Well , I like a little wildness . 
I was wild myself once . 
'I thought you'd come back directly , Fred . 
I always thought that , said Quilp setting down his glass . 
The young man made a movement of impatience , but Quilp went on as calmly as if he were discussing some abstract question in which nobody present had the slightest personal interest . 
'It's very true , said Quilp , 'that your grandfather urged repeated forgiveness , ingratitude , riot , and extravagance , and all that but as I told him these are common faults . 
But he's a scoundrel , said he . 
, a great many young noblemen and gentlemen are scoundrels too ! But he wouldn't be convinced . 
'I wonder at that , Mr Quilp , said the young man sarcastically . 
'Well , so did I at the time , returned Quilp , 'but he was always obstinate . 
He was in a manner a friend of mine , but he was always obstinate and wrong headed . 
Little Nell is a nice girl , a charming girl , but you're her brother , Frederick . 
You're her brother after all as you told him the last time you met , he can't alter that . 
'He would if he could , confound him for that and all other kindnesses , said the young man impatiently . 
'But nothing can come of this subject now , and let us have done with it in the Devil's name . 
'Agreed , returned Quilp , 'agreed on my part readily . 
Why have I alluded to it ? Just to show you , Frederick , that I have always stood your friend . 
Let's shake hands again , Fred . 
With his head sunk down between his shoulders , and a hideous grin over spreading his face , the dwarf stood up and stretched his short arm across the table . 
It is something to be appreciated , even in knavery . 
in a double degree and most ingenious manner . 
But it was not to Mrs Jiniwin alone that Mr Quilp's attention was restricted , as several other matters required his constant vigilance . 
And in any one of these his many cares , from first to last , Quilp never flagged nor faltered . 
The dwarf beckoning his remaining companion to the other end of the room , held a short conference with him in whispers . 
'It's as well not to say more than one can help before our worthy friend , said Quilp , making a grimace towards the slumbering Dick . 
'Of course I have , dear Fred , said Quilp , grinning to think how little he suspected what the real end was . 
'It's retaliation perhaps perhaps whim . 
I have influence , Fred , to help or oppose . 
Which way shall I use it ? There are a pair of scales , and it goes into one . 
'Throw it into mine then , said Trent . 
'It's done , Fred , rejoined Quilp , stretching out his clenched hand and opening it as if he had let some weight fall out . 
'It's in the scale from this time , and turns it , Fred . 
'Where have they gone ? asked Trent . 
Quilp shook his head , and said that point remained to be discovered , which it might be , easily . 
When it was , they would begin their preliminary advances . 
to feign to be so , to those about him . 
'He has feigned it often enough to me , of late , said Trent . 
'Oh ! and to me too ! replied the dwarf . 
'Which is more extraordinary , as I know how rich he really is . 
'I suppose you should , said Trent . 
'I think I should indeed , rejoined the dwarf and in that , at least , he spoke the truth . 
After a few more whispered words , they returned to the table , and the young man rousing Richard Swiveller informed him that he was waiting to depart . 
This was welcome news to Dick , who started up directly . 
After a few words of confidence in the result of their project had been exchanged , they bade the grinning Quilp good night . 
Quilp crept to the window as they passed in the street below , and listened . 
Trent was pronouncing an encomium upon his wife , and they were both wondering by what enchantment she had been brought to marry such a misshapen wretch as he . 
The dwarf after watching their retreating shadows with a wider grin than his face had yet displayed , stole softly in the dark to bed . 
In this hatching of their scheme , neither Trent nor Quilp had had one thought about the happiness or misery of poor innocent Nell . 
Here , though the course was hidden from their view , they could yet faintly distinguish the noise of distant shouts , the hum of voices , and the beating of drums . 
Some time elapsed before she could reassure her trembling companion , or restore him to a state of moderate tranquillity . 
His terrors affected the child . 
In one so young , and so unused to the scenes in which she had lately moved , this sinking of the spirit was not surprising . 
'We are quite safe now , and have nothing to fear indeed , dear grandfather , she said . 
'Nothing to fear ! returned the old man . 
'Nothing to fear if they took me from thee ! Nothing to fear if they parted us ! Nobody is true to me . 
Not even Nell ! 'Oh ! do not say that , replied the child , 'for if ever anybody was true at heart , and earnest , I am . 
I am sure you know I am . 
'Judge for yourself , dear grandfather look round , and see how quiet and still it is . 
We are alone together , and may ramble where we like . 
'What noise was that ? 'A bird , said the child , 'flying into the wood , and leading the way for us to follow . 
See what a pleasant path and there's the bird the same bird now he flies to another tree , and stays to sing . 
At length the path becoming clearer and less intricate , brought them to the end of the wood , and into a public road . 
A broken finger post announced that this led to a village three miles off and thither they resolved to bend their steps . 
The miles appeared so long that they sometimes thought they must have missed their road . 
It was a very small place . 
The men and boys were playing at cricket on the green and as the other folks were looking on , they wandered up and down , uncertain where to seek a humble lodging . 
'Speak to him , dear , the old man whispered . 
'I am almost afraid to disturb him , said the child timidly . 
'He does not seem to see us . 
Perhaps if we wait a little , he may look this way . 
They waited , but the schoolmaster cast no look towards them , and still sat , thoughtful and silent , in the little porch . 
He had a kind face . 
In his plain old suit of black , he looked pale and meagre . 
The slight noise they made in raising the latch of the wicket gate , caught his attention . 
He looked at them kindly but seemed disappointed too , and slightly shook his head . 
Nell dropped a curtsey , and told him they were poor travellers who sought a shelter for the night which they would gladly pay for , so far as their means allowed . 
The schoolmaster looked earnestly at her as she spoke , laid aside his pipe , and rose up directly . 
'If you could direct us anywhere , sir , said the child , 'we should take it very kindly . 
'You have been walking a long way , said the schoolmaster . 
'A long way , Sir , the child replied . 
'You're a young traveller , my child , he said , laying his hand gently on her head . 
'Your grandchild , friend ? 'Aye , Sir , cried the old man , 'and the stay and comfort of my life . 
'Come in , said the schoolmaster . 
Without further preface he conducted them into his little school room , which was parlour and kitchen likewise , and told them that they were welcome to remain under his roof till morning . 
The child looked round the room as she took her seat . 
'Yes , said the old schoolmaster , observing that her attention was caught by these latter specimens . 
'That's beautiful writing , my dear . 
'I couldn't write like that , now a days . 
No. They're all done by one hand a little hand it is , not so old as yours , but a very clever one . 
'A little hand indeed , said the poor schoolmaster . 
'I hope there is nothing the matter , sir , said Nell anxiously . 
'Not much , my dear , returned the schoolmaster . 
'I hoped to have seen him on the green to night . 
He was always foremost among them . 
But he'll be there to morrow . 
'Has he been ill ? asked the child , with a child's quick sympathy . 
They said he was wandering in his head yesterday , dear boy , and so they said the day before . 
But that's a part of that kind of disorder it's not a bad sign not at all a bad sign . 
He walked to the door , and looked wistfully out . 
The shadows of night were gathering , and all was still . 
'If he could lean upon anybody's arm , he would come to me , I know , he said , returning into the room . 
'He always came into the garden to say good night . 
But perhaps his illness has only just taken a favourable turn , and it's too late for him to come out , for it's very damp and there's a heavy dew . 
it's much better he shouldn't come to night . 
The schoolmaster lighted a candle , fastened the window shutter , and closed the door . 
The child readily complied , and he went out . 
When he returned , he took his seat in the chimney corner , but remained silent for a long time . 
At length he turned to her , and speaking very gently , hoped she would say a prayer that night for a sick child . 
'My favourite scholar ! said the poor schoolmaster , smoking a pipe he had forgotten to light , and looking mournfully round upon the walls . 
'It is a little hand to have done all that , and waste away with sickness . 
As the schoolmaster had already left his bed and gone out , she bestirred herself to make it neat and comfortable , and had just finished its arrangement when the kind host returned . 
He thanked her many times , and said that the old dame who usually did such offices for him had gone to nurse the little scholar whom he had told her of . 
The child asked how he was , and hoped he was better . 
'No , rejoined the schoolmaster shaking his head sorrowfully , 'no better . 
They even say he is worse . 
'I am very sorry for that , Sir , said the child . 
I don't think he can be worse . 
The child asked his leave to prepare breakfast , and her grandfather coming down stairs , they all three partook of it together . 
While the meal was in progress , their host remarked that the old man seemed much fatigued , and evidently stood in need of rest . 
'If the journey you have before you is a long one , he said , 'and don't press you for one day , you're very welcome to pass another night here . 
I should really be glad if you would , friend . 
If you can do a charity to a lone man , and rest yourself at the same time , do so . 
If you must proceed upon your journey , I wish you well through it , and will walk a little way with you before school begins . 
'What are we to do , Nell ? said the old man irresolutely , 'say what we're to do , dear . 
It required no great persuasion to induce the child to answer that they had better accept the invitation and remain . 
She was happy to show her gratitude to the kind schoolmaster by busying herself in the performance of such household duties as his little cottage stood in need of . 
Her grandfather was basking in the sun outside , breathing the perfume of the flowers , and idly watching the clouds as they floated on before the light summer wind . 
But this he would not allow , and as he seemed pleased to have her there , she remained , busying herself with her work . 
'Have you many scholars , sir ? she asked . 
The poor schoolmaster shook his head , and said that they barely filled the two forms . 
'Are the others clever , sir ? asked the child , glancing at the trophies on the wall . 
'Good boys , returned the schoolmaster , 'good boys enough , my dear , but they'll never do like that . 
No boy attempted to violate the sanctity of seat or peg , but many a one looked from the empty spaces to the schoolmaster , and whispered his idle neighbour behind his hand . 
But the tedium of his office reminded him more strongly of the willing scholar , and his thoughts were rambling from his pupils it was plain . 
, holding no book before his face , and his approving audience knew no constraint in their delight . 
'I think , boys , said the schoolmaster when the clock struck twelve , 'that I shall give an extra half holiday this afternoon . 
I'm sure you wouldn't disturb your old playmate and companion . 
in the negative and the tall boy , perhaps as sincerely as any of them , called those about him to witness that he had only shouted in a whisper . 
'Then pray don't forget , there's my dear scholars , said the schoolmaster , 'what I have asked you , and do it as a favour to me . 
Be as happy as you can , and don't be unmindful that you are blessed with health . 
It was more than boy could bear , and with a joyous whoop the whole cluster took to their heels and spread themselves about , shouting and laughing as they went . 
'It's natural , thank Heaven ! said the poor schoolmaster , looking after them . 
They stopped at a cottage door , and the schoolmaster knocked softly at it with his hand . 
It was opened without loss of time . 
'Oh , dame ! said the schoolmaster , drawing near her chair , 'is it so bad as this ? 'He's going fast , cried the old woman 'my grandson's dying . 
It's all along of you . 
You shouldn't see him now , but for his being so earnest on it . 
This is what his learning has brought him to . 
Oh dear , dear , dear , what can I do ! 'Do not say that I am in any fault , urged the gentle school master . 
'I am not hurt , dame . 
You are in great distress of mind , and don't mean what you say . 
I am sure you don't . 
'I do , returned the old woman . 
If he hadn't been poring over his books out of fear of you , he would have been well and merry now , I know he would . 
into another room , where his infant friend , half dressed , lay stretched upon a bed . 
He was a very young boy quite a little child . 
His hair still hung in curls about his face , and his eyes were very bright but their light was of Heaven , not earth . 
The schoolmaster took a seat beside him , and stooping over the pillow , whispered his name . 
The boy sprung up , stroked his face with his hand , and threw his wasted arms round his neck , crying out that he was his dear kind friend . 
'I hope I always was . 
I meant to be , God knows , said the poor schoolmaster . 
'Who is that ? said the boy , seeing Nell . 
'I am afraid to kiss her , lest I should make her ill . 
Ask her to shake hands with me . 
The sobbing child came closer up , and took the little languid hand in hers . 
Releasing his again after a time , the sick boy laid him gently down . 
You will come soon , my dear , very soon now won't you ? The boy smiled faintly so very , very faintly and put his hand upon his friend's grey head . 
He moved his lips too , but no voice came from them no , not a sound . 
In the silence that ensued , the hum of distant voices borne upon the evening air came floating through the open window . 
'What's that ? said the sick child , opening his eyes . 
'The boys at play upon the green . 
He took a handkerchief from his pillow , and tried to wave it above his head . 
But the feeble arm dropped powerless down . 
'Shall I do it ? said the schoolmaster . 
'Please wave it at the window , was the faint reply . 
'Tie it to the lattice . 
Some of them may see it there . 
Perhaps they'll think of me , and look this way . 
He raised his head , and glanced from the fluttering signal to his idle bat , that lay with slate and book and other boyish property upon a table in the room . 
And then he laid him softly down once more , and asked if the little girl were there , for he could not see her . 
She stepped forward , and pressed the passive hand that lay upon the coverlet . 
The poor schoolmaster sat in the same place , holding the small cold hand in his , and chafing it . 
It was but the hand of a dead child . 
He felt that and yet he chafed it still , and could not lay it down . 
CHAPTER Almost broken hearted , Nell withdrew with the schoolmaster from the bedside and returned to his cottage . 
She stole away to bed as quickly as she could , and when she was alone , gave free vent to the sorrow with which her breast was overcharged . 
, still she thought wisely enough , to draw a plain and easy moral from what she had seen that night , and to store it , deep in her mind . 
Her dreams were of the little scholar not coffined and covered up , but mingling with angels , and smiling happily . 
The sun darting his cheerful rays into the room , awoke her and now there remained but to take leave of the poor schoolmaster and wander forth once more . 
By the time they were ready to depart , school had begun . 
In the darkened room , the din of yesterday was going on again a little sobered and softened down , perhaps , but only a very little , if at all . 
The schoolmaster rose from his desk and walked with them to the gate . 
But he bade her put it up , and stooping to kiss her cheek , turned back into his house . 
They had not gone half a dozen paces when he was at the door again the old man retraced his steps to shake hands , and the child did the same . 
'Good fortune and happiness go with you ! said the poor schoolmaster . 
'I am quite a solitary man now . 
If you ever pass this way again , you'll not forget the little village school . 
'We shall never forget it , sir , rejoined Nell 'nor ever forget to be grateful to you for your kindness to us . 
'I have heard such words from the lips of children very often , said the schoolmaster , shaking his head , and smiling thoughtfully , 'but they were soon forgotten . 
At length they had left the village far behind , and even lost sight of the smoke among the trees . 
They trudged onward now , at a quicker pace , resolving to keep the main road , and go wherever it might lead them . 
But main roads stretch a long , long way . 
As they had no resource , however , but to go forward , they still kept on , though at a much slower pace , being very weary and fatigued . 
The afternoon had worn away into a beautiful evening , when they arrived at a point where the road made a sharp turn and struck across a common . 
sat a Christian lady , stout and comfortable to look upon , who wore a large bonnet trembling with bows . 
And that it was not an unprovided or destitute caravan was clear from this lady's occupation , which was the very pleasant and refreshing one of taking tea . 
'Hey ! cried the lady of the caravan , scooping the crumbs out of her lap and swallowing the same before wiping her lips . 
'Yes , to be sure Who won the Helter Skelter Plate , child ? 'Won what , ma'am ? asked Nell . 
'The Helter Skelter Plate at the races , child the plate that was run for on the second day . 
'On the second day , ma'am ? 'Second day ! Yes , second day , repeated the lady with an air of impatience . 
'Can't you say who won the Helter Skelter Plate when you're asked the question civilly ? 'I don't know , ma'am . 
'Don't know ! repeated the lady of the caravan 'why , you were there . 
I saw you with my own eyes . 
Nell was not a little alarmed to hear this , supposing that the lady might be intimately acquainted with the firm of Short and Codlin but what followed tended to reassure her . 
'I was not there by choice , returned the child 'we didn't know our way , and the two men were very kind to us , and let us travel with them . 
Do you do you know them , ma'am ? 'Know 'em , child ! cried the lady of the caravan in a sort of shriek . 
'Know them ! But you're young and inexperienced , and that's your excuse for asking sich a question . 
It was granted immediately , though the lady still appeared much ruffled and discomposed by the degrading supposition . 
The child then explained that they had left the races on the first day , and were travelling to the next town on that road , where they purposed to spend the night . 
As the countenance of the stout lady began to clear up , she ventured to inquire how far it was . 
This discouraging information a little dashed the child , who could scarcely repress a tear as she glanced along the darkening road . 
Her grandfather made no complaint , but he sighed heavily as he leaned upon his staff , and vainly tried to pierce the dusty distance . 
The lady of the caravan was in the act of gathering her tea equipage together preparatory to clearing the table , but noting the child's anxious manner she hesitated and stopped . 
'Come nearer , nearer still , said she , beckoning to her to ascend the steps . 
'Are you hungry , child ? 'Not very , but we are tired , and it's it IS a long way . 
'Well , hungry or not , you had better have some tea , rejoined her new acquaintance . 
'I suppose you are agreeable to that , old gentleman ? The grandfather humbly pulled off his hat and thanked her . 
'Set 'em out near the hind wheels , child , that's the best place , said their friend , superintending the arrangements from above . 
They might perhaps have carried out the lady's wish , if it had been less freely expressed , or even if it had not been expressed at all . 
But as this direction relieved them from any shadow of delicacy or uneasiness , they made a hearty meal and enjoyed it to the utmost . 
'Yes , Missus , said George . 
'How did you find the cold pie , George ? 'It warn't amiss , mum . 
from the stone bottle , and then smacked his lips , winked his eye , and nodded his head . 
No doubt with the same amiable desire , he immediately resumed his knife and fork , as a practical assurance that the beer had wrought no bad effect upon his appetite . 
The lady of the caravan looked on approvingly for some time , and then said , 'Have you nearly finished ? 'Wery nigh , mum . 
'I hope I haven't hurried you , George , said his mistress , who appeared to have a great sympathy with his late pursuit . 
'If you have , returned the follower , wisely reserving himself for any favourable contingency that might occur , 'we must make up for it next time , that's all . 
'If you see a woman a driving , you'll always perceive that she never will keep her whip still the horse can't go fast enough for her . 
If cattle have got their proper load , you never can persuade a woman that they'll not bear something more . 
'They'd make a difference in course , said George doggedly . 
'Would they make much difference ? repeated his mistress . 
'They can't be very heavy . 
CHAPTER When they had travelled slowly forward for some short distance , Nell ventured to steal a look round the caravan and observe it more closely . 
The other half served for a kitchen , and was fitted up with a stove whose small chimney passed through the roof . 
It held also a closet or larder , several chests , a great pitcher of water , and a few cooking utensils and articles of crockery . 
'That's the happiness of you young people , she continued . 
'You don't know what it is to be low in your feelings . 
You always have your appetites too , and what a comfort that is . 
She silently assented , however , as in duty bound , to what the lady had said , and waited until she should speak again . 
'There , child , she said , 'read that . 
Nell walked down it , and read aloud , in enormous black letters , the inscription , 'Jarley's WAX WORK . 
'Read it again , said the lady , complacently . 
'Jarley's Wax Work , repeated Nell . 
'That's me , said the lady . 
'Never go into the company of a filthy Punch any more , said Mrs Jarley , 'after this . 
'I never saw any wax work , ma'am , said Nell . 
'Is it funnier than Punch ? 'Funnier ! said Mrs Jarley in a shrill voice . 
'It is not funny at all . 
'Oh ! said Nell , with all possible humility . 
'It isn't funny at all , repeated Mrs Jarley . 
'It's calm and what's that word again critical ? no classical , that's it it's calm and classical . 
'Is it here , ma'am ? asked Nell , whose curiosity was awakened by this description . 
'Is what here , child ? 'The wax work , ma'am . 
You are going to the same town , and you'll see it I dare say . 
It's natural to expect that you'll see it , and I've no doubt you will . 
I suppose you couldn't stop away if you was to try ever so much . 
'I shall not be in the town , I think , ma'am , said the child . 
'Not there ! cried Mrs Jarley . 
'Then where will you be ? 'I I don't quite know . 
'You don't mean to say that you're travelling about the country without knowing where you're going to ? said the lady of the caravan . 
'We were there quite by accident , returned Nell , confused by this abrupt questioning . 
'We are poor people , ma'am , and are only wandering about . 
We have nothing to do I wish we had . 
'You amaze me more and more , said Mrs Jarley , after remaining for some time as mute as one of her own figures . 
'Why , what do you call yourselves ? Not beggars ? 'Indeed , ma'am , I don't know what else we are , returned the child . 
'Lord bless me , said the lady of the caravan . 
'I never heard of such a thing . 
This persuasion was rather confirmed than otherwise by the tone in which she at length broke silence and said , 'And yet you can read . 
And write too , I shouldn't wonder ? 'Yes , ma'am , said the child , fearful of giving new offence by the confession . 
'Well , and what a thing that is , returned Mrs Jarley . 
This conference at length concluded , she drew in her head again , and beckoned Nell to approach . 
'And the old gentleman too , said Mrs Jarley 'for I want to have a word with him . 
Do you want a good situation for your grand daughter , master ? If you do , I can put her in the way of getting one . 
What do you say ? 'I can't leave her , answered the old man . 
What would become of me without her ? 'I should have thought you were old enough to take care of yourself , if you ever will be , retorted Mrs Jarley sharply . 
'But he never will be , said the child in an earnest whisper . 
'I fear he never will be again . 
Pray do not speak harshly to him . 
We are very thankful to you , she added aloud 'but neither of us could part from the other if all the wealth of the world were halved between us . 
The duty's very light and genteel , the company particularly select , the exhibition takes place in assembly rooms , town halls , large rooms at inns , or auction galleries . 
There is none of your open air wagrancy at Jarley's , recollect there is no tarpaulin and sawdust at Jarley's , remember . 
Every expectation held out in the handbills is realised to the utmost , and the whole forms an effect of imposing brilliancy hitherto unrivalled in this kingdom . 
'Now , child ? cried Mrs Jarley , coming to a halt as Nell turned towards her . 
'We are very much obliged to you , ma'am , said Nell , 'and thankfully accept your offer . 
'And you'll never be sorry for it , returned Mrs Jarley . 
'I'm pretty sure of that . 
So as that's all settled , let us have a bit of supper . 
For herself , she was to sleep in Mrs Jarley's own travelling carriage , as a signal mark of that lady's favour and confidence . 
The child withdrew into a dark corner , and saw him pass close to her . 
'I've come on very fast , considering . 
'YOU have come fast , considering ! retorted Quilp 'you creep , you dog , you crawl , you measure distance like a worm . 
There are the chimes now , half past twelve . 
The boy replied , at one . 
'Come on then , said Quilp , 'or I shall be too late . 
Faster do you hear me ? Faster . 
The boy made all the speed he could , and Quilp led onward , constantly turning back to threaten him , and urge him to greater haste . 
But he was sleeping soundly , and she softly withdrew . 
She received Nell's apology for being so late with perfect good humour , and said that she should not have roused her if she had slept on until noon . 
'Have you had a bad night , ma'am ? asked Nell . 
'I seldom have anything else , child , replied Mrs Jarley , with the air of a martyr . 
'I sometimes wonder how I bear it . 
However , she expressed herself very sorry to hear such a dismal account of her state of health , and shortly afterwards sat down with her grandfather and Mrs Jarley to breakfast . 
'The wan will come on to bring the boxes , said Mrs Jarley , and you had better come in it , child . 
The caravan followed at no great distance . 
These had very little winking windows , and low arched doors , and , in some of the narrower ways , quite overhung the pavement . 
The streets were very clean , very sunny , very empty , and very dull . 
to the best advantage in the decoration of the room . 
They all got to work without loss of time , and very busy they were . 
'Lot ! who'd have thought of seeing you here ! ''Pon my soul and honour , said Mr Slum , 'that's a good remark . 
'Pon my soul and honour that's a wise remark . 
'I came here , said the military gentleman turning to Mrs Jarley ''pon my soul and honour I hardly know what I came here for . 
It would puzzle me to tell you , it would by Gad . 
'It'll look well enough when it comes to be finished , observed Mrs Jarley . 
'Well enough ! said Mr Slum . 
'Hush ! No , no ! returned Mr Slum , elevating his hand . 
Don't say it don't do good . 
I know better ! 'I don't think it does , said Mrs Jarley . 
'Ha , ha ! cried Mr Slum , 'you're giving way , you're coming down . 
It's an acrostic the name at this moment is Warren , and the idea's a convertible one , and a positive inspiration for Jarley . 
'I suppose it's very dear , said Mrs Jarley . 
'Five shillings , returned Mr Slum , using his pencil as a toothpick . 
'I couldn't give more than three , said Mrs Jarley . 
And six , retorted Slum . 
Mrs Jarley was not proof against the poet's insinuating manner , and Mr Slum entered the order in a small note book as a three and sixpenny one . 
As his presence had not interfered with or interrupted the preparations , they were now far advanced , and were completed shortly after his departure . 
Observe the blood which is trickling from her finger also the gold eyed needle of the period , with which she is at work . 
All this , Nell repeated twice or thrice pointing to the finger and the needle at the right times and then passed on to the next . 
Let this be a warning to all young ladies to be particular in the character of the gentlemen of their choice . 
Observe that his fingers are curled as if in the act of tickling , and that his face is represented with a wink , as he appeared when committing his barbarous murders . 
CHAPTER Unquestionably Mrs Jarley had an inventive genius . 
In the midst of the various devices for attracting visitors to the exhibition , little Nell was not forgotten . 
The beauty of the child , coupled with her gentle and timid bearing , produced quite a sensation in the little country place . 
Quilp indeed was a perpetual night mare to the child , who was constantly haunted by a vision of his ugly face and stunted figure . 
Cause for deeper and heavier sorrow was yet to come . 
One evening , a holiday night with them , Nell and her grandfather went out to walk . 
They had been rather closely confined for some days , and the weather being warm , they strolled a long distance . 
Clear of the town , they took a footpath which struck through some pleasant fields , judging that it would terminate in the road they quitted and enable them to return that way . 
The wind began to moan in hollow murmurs , as the sun went down carrying glad day elsewhere and a train of dull clouds coming up against it , menaced thunder and lightning . 
Large drops of rain soon began to fall , and , as the storm clouds came sailing onward , others supplied the void they left behind and spread over all the sky . 
Then was heard the low rumbling of distant thunder , then the lightning quivered , and then the darkness of an hour seemed to have gathered in an instant . 
'What were you going past for , eh ? he added , as he closed the door and led the way along a passage to a room behind . 
'We didn't see the house , sir , till we heard you calling , Nell replied . 
'No wonder , said the man , 'with this lightning in one's eyes , by the by . 
You had better stand by the fire here , and dry yourselves a bit . 
You can call for what you like if you want anything . 
If you don't want anything , you are not obliged to give an order . 
Don't be afraid of that . 
This is a public house , that's all . 
The Valiant Soldier is pretty well known hereabouts . 
'Is this house called the Valiant Soldier , Sir ? asked Nell . 
'I thought everybody knew that , replied the landlord . 
The night being warm , there was a large screen drawn across the room , for a barrier against the heat of the fire . 
'There an't many men , said Mr Groves , no answer being returned , 'who would ventur' to cross Jem Groves under his own roof . 
There's only one man , I know , that has nerve enough for that , and that man's not a hundred mile from here neither . 
But he's worth a dozen men , and I let him say of me whatever he likes in consequence he knows that . 
In return for this complimentary address , a very gruff hoarse voice bade Mr Groves 'hold his noise and light a candle . 
And the same voice remarked that the same gentleman 'needn't waste his breath in brag , for most people knew pretty well what sort of stuff he was made of . 
'Nell , they're they're playing cards , whispered the old man , suddenly interested . 
Game ! Seven and sixpence to me , old Isaac . 
'Do you hear , Nell , do you hear them ? whispered the old man again , with increased earnestness , as the money chinked upon the table . 
'Ah ! returned the gruff voice 'for all old Luke's winning through thick and thin of late years , I remember the time when he was the unluckiest and unfortunatest of men . 
He never took a dice box in his hand , or held a card , but he was plucked , pigeoned , and cleaned out completely . 
'Do you hear what he says ? whispered the old man . 
'Do you hear that , Nell ? The child saw with astonishment and alarm that his whole appearance had undergone a complete change . 
What money have we ? Give it to me . 
'No , no , let me keep it , grandfather , said the frightened child . 
'Let us go away from here . 
Do not mind the rain . 
'Give it to me , I say , returned the old man fiercely . 
'Hush , hush , don't cry , Nell . 
If I spoke sharply , dear , I didn't mean it . 
I have wronged thee , Nell , but I will right thee yet , I will indeed . 
Where is the money ? 'Do not take it , said the child . 
'Pray do not take it , dear . 
For both our sakes let me keep it , or let me throw it away better let me throw it away , than you take it now . 
Let us go do let us go . 
'Give me the money , returned the old man , 'I must have it . 
There there that's my dear Nell . 
I'll right thee one day , child , I'll right thee , never fear ! She took from her pocket a little purse . 
He seized it with the same rapid impatience which had characterised his speech , and hastily made his way to the other side of the screen . 
It was impossible to restrain him , and the trembling child followed close behind . 
The landlord had placed a light upon the table , and was engaged in drawing the curtain of the window . 
He wore his hat , which was of a brownish white , and had beside him a thick knotted stick . 
'Now old gentleman , said Isaac , looking round . 
'Do you know either of us ? This side of the screen is private , sir . 
'No offence , I hope , returned the old man . 
'But by G , sir , there is offence , said the other , interrupting him , 'when you intrude yourself upon a couple of gentlemen who are particularly engaged . 
'I had no intention to offend , said the old man , looking anxiously at the cards . 
'I thought that 'But you had no right to think , sir , retorted the other . 
'Yes , I can let him speak , Jemmy Groves . 
'Well then , do it , will you ? said the landlord . 
'That is what I mean . 
That is what I want now ! 'I thought so , returned the same man . 
'Oh ! That indeed , said Isaac 'if that's what the gentleman meant , I beg the gentleman's pardon . 
Is this the gentleman's little purse ? A very pretty little purse . 
Rather a light purse , added Isaac , throwing it into the air and catching it dexterously , 'but enough to amuse a gentleman for half an hour or so . 
'We'll make a four handed game of it , and take in Groves , said the stout man . 
The landlord , who conducted himself like one who was well used to such little parties , approached the table and took his seat . 
The child , in a perfect agony , drew her grandfather aside , and implored him , even then , to come away . 
'Come and we may be so happy , said the child . 
'We WILL be happy , replied the old man hastily . 
'Let me go , Nell . 
The means of happiness are on the cards and the dice . 
We must rise from little winnings to great . 
There's little to be won here but great will come in time . 
I shall but win back my own , and it's all for thee , my darling . 
'God help us ! cried the child . 
'Oh ! what hard fortune brought us here ? 'Hush ! rejoined the old man laying his hand upon her mouth , 'Fortune will not bear chiding . 
We must not reproach her , or she shuns us I have found that out . 
'Now , mister , said the stout man . 
'If you're not coming yourself , give us the cards , will you ? 'I am coming , cried the old man . 
'Sit thee down , Nell , sit thee down and look on . 
Be of good heart , it's all for thee all every penny . 
I don't tell them , no , no , or else they wouldn't play , dreading the chance that such a cause must give me . 
See what they are and what thou art . 
Who doubts that we must win ! 'The gentleman has thought better of it , and isn't coming , said Isaac , making as though he would rise from the table . 
'I'm sorry the gentleman's daunted nothing venture , nothing have but the gentleman knows best . 
You have all been slow but me , said the old man . 
The child sat by , and watched its progress with a troubled mind . 
Regardless of the run of luck , and mindful only of the desperate passion which had its hold upon her grandfather , losses and gains were to her alike . 
CHAPTER At length the play came to an end , and Mr Isaac List rose the only winner . 
Mat and the landlord bore their losses with professional fortitude . 
Isaac pocketed his gains with the air of a man who had quite made up his mind to win , all along , and was neither surprised nor pleased . 
He was quite absorbed in this occupation , when the child drew near and laid her hand upon his shoulder , telling him it was near midnight . 
'See the curse of poverty , Nell , he said , pointing to the packs he had spread out upon the table . 
'If I could have gone on a little longer , only a little longer , the luck would have turned on my side . 
Yes , it's as plain as the marks upon the cards . 
See here and there and here again . 
'Put them away , urged the child . 
'Try to forget them ! he rejoined , raising his haggard face to hers , and regarding her with an incredulous stare . 
'To forget them ! How are we ever to grow rich if I forget them ? The child could only shake her head . 
'No , no , Nell , said the old man , patting her cheek 'they must not be forgotten . 
We must make amends for this as soon as we can . 
Patience patience , and we'll right thee yet , I promise thee . 
Lose to day , win to morrow . 
And nothing can be won without anxiety and care nothing . 
Come , I am ready . 
'Do you know what the time is ? said Mr Groves , who was smoking with his friends . 
'Past twelve o'clock And a rainy night , added the stout man . 
'The Valiant Soldier , by James Groves . 
Cheap entertainment for man and beast , said Mr Groves , quoting his sign board . 
'It's very late , said the uneasy child . 
'I wish we had gone before . 
What will they think of us ! It will be two o'clock by the time we get back . 
She therefore took her grandfather aside , and telling him that she had still enough left to defray the cost of their lodging , proposed that they should stay there for the night . 
'If I had had but that money before If I had only known of it a few minutes ago ! muttered the old man . 
'We will decide to stop here if you please , said Nell , turning hastily to the landlord . 
'I think that's prudent , returned Mr Groves . 
'You shall have your suppers directly . 
As they would leave the house very early in the morning , the child was anxious to pay for their entertainment before they retired to bed . 
'Will you give me the change here , if you please ? said the child . 
The coin being genuine , however , and changed at his house , he probably felt , like a wise landlord , that it was no business of his . 
At any rate , he counted out the change , and gave it her . 
The child was returning to the room where they had passed the evening , when she fancied she saw a figure just gliding in at the door . 
But by whom ? When she re entered the room , she found its inmates exactly as she had left them . 
The stout fellow lay upon two chairs , resting his head on his hand , and the squinting man reposed in a similar attitude on the opposite side of the table . 
Between them sat her grandfather , looking intently at the winner with a kind of hungry admiration , and hanging upon his words as if he were some superior being . 
She was puzzled for a moment , and looked round to see if any else were there . 
No. Then she asked her grandfather in a whisper whether anybody had left the room while she was absent . 
'No , he said , 'nobody . 
She was still wondering and thinking of it , when a girl came to light her to bed . 
The old man took leave of the company at the same time , and they went up stairs together . 
It was a great , rambling house , with dull corridors and wide staircases which the flaring candles seemed to make more gloomy . 
She left her grandfather in his chamber , and followed her guide to another , which was at the end of a passage , and approached by some half dozen crazy steps . 
This was prepared for her . 
The girl lingered a little while to talk , and tell her grievances . 
She had not a good place , she said the wages were low , and the work was hard . 
Then there were some rambling allusions to a rejected sweetheart , who had threatened to go a soldiering a final promise of knocking at the door early in the morning and 'Good night . 
The child did not feel comfortable when she was left alone . 
She could not help thinking of the figure stealing through the passage down stairs and what the girl had said did not tend to reassure her . 
The men were very ill looking . 
They might get their living by robbing and murdering travellers . 
Here was the old passion awakened again in her grandfather's breast , and to what further distraction it might tempt him Heaven only knew . 
What fears their absence might have occasioned already ! Persons might be seeking for them even then . 
A deeper slumber followed this and then What ! That figure in the room . 
She had no voice to cry for help , no power to move , but lay still , watching it . 
On it came on , silently and stealthily , to the bed's head . 
The breath so near her pillow , that she shrunk back into it , lest those wandering hands should light upon her face . 
Back again it stole to the window then turned its head towards her . 
There it remained , motionless as she . 
At length , still keeping the face towards her , it busied its hands in something , and she heard the chink of money . 
The steps creaked beneath its noiseless tread , and it was gone . 
With no consciousness of having moved , she gained the door . 
There was the dreadful shadow , pausing at the bottom of the steps . 
She could not pass it she might have done so , perhaps , in the darkness without being seized , but her blood curdled at the thought . 
The figure stood quite still , and so did she not boldly , but of necessity for going back into the room was hardly less terrible than going on . 
The rain beat fast and furiously without , and ran down in plashing streams from the thatched roof . 
Some summer insect , with no escape into the air , flew blindly to and fro , beating its body against the walls and ceiling , and filling the silent place with murmurs . 
The child involuntarily did the same . 
Once in her grandfather's room , she would be safe . 
It crept along the passage until it came to the very door she longed so ardently to reach . 
The idea flashed suddenly upon her what if it entered there , and had a design upon the old man's life ! She turned faint and sick . 
There was a light inside . 
The figure was now within the chamber , and she , still dumb quite dumb , and almost senseless stood looking on . 
The door was partly open . 
Not knowing what she meant to do , but meaning to preserve him or be killed herself , she staggered forward and looked in . 
What sight was that which met her view ! The bed had not been lain on , but was smooth and empty . 
CHAPTER With steps more faltering and unsteady than those with which she had approached the room , the child withdrew from the door , and groped her way back to her own chamber . 
The terror she had lately felt was nothing compared with that which now oppressed her . 
Hark ! A footstep on the stairs , and now the door was slowly opening . 
The feeling which beset the child was one of dim uncertain horror . 
She could scarcely connect her own affectionate companion , save by his loss , with this old man , so like yet so unlike him . 
She had wept to see him dull and quiet . 
She stole down the stairs and passage again . 
The door was still ajar as she had left it , and the candle burning as before . 
Looking into the room , she saw him lying calmly on his bed , and so took courage to enter . 
No passion in the face , no avarice , no anxiety , no wild desire all gentle , tranquil , and at peace . 
She had no fear as she looked upon his slumbering features , but she had a deep and weighty sorrow , and it found its relief in tears . 
'God bless him ! said the child , stooping softly to kiss his placid cheek . 
'I see too well now , that they would indeed part us if they found us out , and shut him up from the light of the sun and sky . 
He has only me to help him . 
At last the day turned her waning candle pale , and she fell asleep . 
She was quickly roused by the girl who had shown her up to bed and , as soon as she was dressed , prepared to go down to her grandfather . 
But first she searched her pocket and found that her money was all gone not a sixpence remained . 
The old man was ready , and in a few seconds they were on their road . 
The child thought he rather avoided her eye , and appeared to expect that she would tell him of her loss . 
She felt she must do that , or he might suspect the truth . 
'Do I think them honest yes , they played honestly . 
'I'll tell you why I ask , rejoined Nell . 
'I lost some money last night out of my bedroom , I am sure . 
'Those who take money , take it to keep . 
'Then it was stolen out of my room , dear , said the child , whose last hope was destroyed by the manner of this reply . 
'We must get more , said the old man , 'we must earn it , Nell , hoard it up , scrape it together , come by it somehow . 
Tell nobody of it , and perhaps we may regain it . 
Don't ask how we may regain it , and a great deal more but tell nobody , or trouble may come of it . 
'Poor Nell , poor little Nell ! The child hung down her head and wept . 
The sympathising tone in which he spoke , was quite sincere she was sure of that . 
It was not the lightest part of her sorrow to know that this was done for her . 
'Not a word about it to any one but me , said the old man , 'no , not even to me , he added hastily , 'for it can do no good . 
All the losses that ever were , are not worth tears from thy eyes , darling . 
Why should they be , when we will win them back ? 'Let them go , said the child looking up . 
'Let them go , once and for ever , and I would never shed another tear if every penny had been a thousand pounds . 
'Well , well , returned the old man , checking himself as some impetuous answer rose to his lips , 'she knows no better . 
I ought to be thankful of it . 
It has always a sweet sound to me . 
It always had when it was her mother's , poor child . 
'We pursue this aim together , retorted her grandfather , still looking away and seeming to confer with himself . 
'It must not turn me , but it is the truth no doubt it is . 
If we have been tired or hungry , we have been soon refreshed , and slept the sounder for it . 
Think what beautiful things we have seen , and how contented we have felt . 
And why was this blessed change ? He stopped her with a motion of his hand , and bade her talk to him no more just then , for he was busy . 
Once she saw tears in his eyes . 
We must try 'em with a parcel of new bills , and you shall take it , my dear , and see what effect that has upon 'em . 
Even the tax gatherer , who was stout , and wore spectacles and a broad brimmed hat , had the taxes handed through the grating . 
More obdurate than gate of adamant or brass , this gate of Miss Monflathers's frowned on all mankind . 
The very butcher respected it as a gate of mystery , and left off whistling when he rang the bell . 
'You're the wax work child , are you not ? said Miss Monflathers . 
'Yes , ma'am , replied Nell , colouring deeply , for the young ladies had collected about her , and she was the centre on which all eyes were fixed . 
'Eh ? said Miss Monflathers , turning smartly round . 
'The little busy bee , said Miss Monflathers , drawing herself up , 'is applicable only to genteel children . 
In books , or work , or healthful play is quite right as far as they are concerned and the work means painting on velvet , fancy needle work , or embroidery . 
In work alway Let my first years be past , That I may give for ev'ry day Some good account at last . 
Just then somebody happened to discover that Nell was crying , and all eyes were again turned towards her . 
There were indeed tears in her eyes , and drawing out her handkerchief to brush them away , she happened to let it fall . 
She was gliding timidly away again , when she was arrested by the governess . 
'It was Miss Edwards who did that , I KNOW , said Miss Monflathers predictively . 
'Now I am sure that was Miss Edwards . 
It was Miss Edwards , and everybody said it was Miss Edwards , and Miss Edwards herself admitted that it was . 
'It was a momentary impulse , indeed . 
'An impulse ! repeated Miss Monflathers scornfully . 
The servant maids felt her inferiority , for they were better treated free to come and go , and regarded in their stations with much more respect . 
The teachers were infinitely superior , for they had paid to go to school in their time , and were paid now . 
and whose half yearly bill came to double that of any other young lady's in the school , making no account of the honour and reputation of her pupilage . 
'You will not take the air to day , Miss Edwards , said Miss Monflathers . 
'Have the goodness to retire to your own room , and not to leave it without permission . 
The poor girl was moving hastily away , when she was suddenly , in nautical phrase , 'brought to' by a subdued shriek from Miss Monflathers . 
'She has passed me without any salute ! cried the governess , raising her eyes to the sky . 
'She has actually passed me without the slightest acknowledgment of my presence ! The young lady turned and curtsied . 
Miss Monflathers only tossed her head in reply , and the great gate closed upon a bursting heart . 
CHAPTER Mrs Jarley's wrath on first learning that she had been threatened with the indignity of Stocks and Penance , passed all description . 
So ended Mrs Jarley's wrath , which subsided long before the going down of the sun . 
Nell's anxieties , however , were of a deeper kind , and the checks they imposed upon her cheerfulness were not so easily removed . 
That evening , as she had dreaded , her grandfather stole away , and did not come back until the night was far spent . 
'Get me money , he said wildly , as they parted for the night . 
'I must have money , Nell . 
for five years , and to bring whom to that place on a short visit , she had been saving her poor means all that time . 
Nell felt as if her heart would break when she saw them meet . 
They went a little apart from the knot of people who had congregated about the coach , and fell upon each other's neck , and sobbed , and wept with joy . 
Their plain and simple dress , the distance which the child had come alone , their agitation and delight , and the tears they shed , would have told their history by themselves . 
They became a little more composed in a short time , and went away , not so much hand in hand as clinging to each other . 
'Are you sure you're happy , sister ? said the child as they passed where Nell was standing . 
'Quite happy now , she answered . 
'But always ? said the child . 
'Ah , sister , why do you turn away your face ? Nell could not help following at a little distance . 
They went to the house of an old nurse , where the elder sister had engaged a bed room for the child . 
'I shall come to you early every morning , she said , 'and we can be together all the day . 
Their evening walk was by a river's side . 
, the stupendous collection shut up next day . 
'Are we going from this place directly , ma'am ? said Nell . 
'Look here , child , returned Mrs Jarley . 
'For now that the schools are gone , and the regular sight seers exhausted , said Mrs Jarley , 'we come to the General Public , and they want stimulating . 
In this depressed state of the classical market , Mrs Jarley made extraordinary efforts to stimulate the popular taste , and whet the popular curiosity . 
'So be in time , be in time , be in time , said Mrs Jarley at the close of every such address . 
'Remember that this is Jarley's stupendous collection of upwards of One Hundred Figures , and that it is the only collection in the world all others being imposters and deceptions . 
The intrepid aeronauts alight before a small dark house , once the residence of Mr Sampson Brass . 
There was not much to look at . 
The office commonly held two examples of animated nature , more to the purpose of this history , and in whom it has a stronger interest and more particular concern . 
Of these , one was Mr Brass himself , who has already appeared in these pages . 
These were , however , in all probability , nothing more than eyelashes in a wrong place , as the eyes of Miss Brass were quite free from any such natural impertinencies . 
Her voice was exceedingly impressive deep and rich in quality , and , once heard , not easily forgotten . 
Such was Miss Brass in person . 
And equally certain it is , by the way , that between these two stools a great many people had come to the ground . 
'Have you nearly done , Sammy ? said Miss Brass for in her mild and feminine lips , Sampson became Sammy , and all things were softened down . 
'No , returned her brother . 
'It would have been all done though , if you had helped at the right time . 
'Have we got any other client like him ? said Brass . 
'Have we got another client like him now will you answer me that ? 'Do you mean in the face ! said his sister . 
'Do I mean in the face ! sneered Sampson Brass , reaching over to take up the bill book , and fluttering its leaves rapidly . 
'Look here Daniel Quilp , Esquire Daniel Quilp , Esquire Daniel Quilp , Esquire all through . 
'But I know what it is , resumed Brass after a short silence . 
'You're afraid you won't have as long a finger in the business as you've been used to have . 
Do you think I don't see through that ? 'The business wouldn't go on very long , I expect , without me , returned his sister composedly . 
'Don't you be a fool and provoke me , Sammy , but mind what you're doing , and do it . 
You know that well enough , so don't talk nonsense . 
To this compliment Miss Sally replied , that she had a relish for the amusement , and had no intention to forego its gratification . 
Mr Brass not caring , as it seemed , to pursue the subject any further , they both plied their pens at a great pace , and there the discussion ended . 
While they were thus employed , the window was suddenly darkened , as by some person standing close against it . 
As Mr Brass and Miss Sally looked up to ascertain the cause , the top sash was nimbly lowered from without , and Quilp thrust in his head . 
'Hallo ! he said , standing on tip toe on the window sill , and looking down into the room . 
'Upon my word , it's quite extraordinary ! 'Open the door , said Quilp , 'I've got him here . 
Such a clerk for you , Brass , such a prize , such an ace of trumps . 
Be quick and open the door , or if there's another lawyer near and he should happen to look out of window , he'll snap him up before your eyes , he will . 
Oh Sally , Sally ! To this amorous address Miss Brass briefly responded 'Bother ! 'Hard hearted as the metal from which she takes her name , said Quilp . 
'Why don't she change it melt down the brass , and take another name ? 'Hold your nonsense , Mr Quilp , do , returned Miss Sally , with a grim smile . 
'I wonder you're not ashamed of yourself before a strange young man . 
'The strange young man , said Quilp , handing Dick Swiveller forward , 'is too susceptible himself not to understand me well . 
Perhaps some doubts of its pure delight presented themselves to Mr Swiveller , as he gave vent to one or two short abrupt sniffs , and looked incredulously at the grinning dwarf . 
'Mr Swiveller , said Quilp , 'being pretty well accustomed to the agricultural pursuits of sowing wild oats , Miss Sally , prudently considers that half a loaf is better than no bread . 
To be out of harm's way he prudently thinks is something too , and therefore he accepts your brother's offer . 
Brass , Mr Swiveller is yours . 
'I am very glad , Sir , said Mr Brass , 'very glad indeed . 
Mr Swiveller , Sir , is fortunate enough to have your friendship . 
You may be very proud , Sir , to have the friendship of Mr Quilp . 
'I suppose , said the dwarf , turning briskly to his legal friend , 'that Mr Swiveller enters upon his duties at once ? It's Monday morning . 
'At once , if you please , Sir , by all means , returned Brass . 
'With Miss Sally , Quilp went on , 'and the beautiful fictions of the law , his days will pass like minutes . 
'Oh , beautiful , beautiful ! Beau ti ful indeed ! cried Brass . 
'It's a treat to hear him ! 'Where will Mr Swiveller sit ? said Quilp , looking round . 
'Why , we'll buy another stool , sir , returned Brass . 
'We hadn't any thoughts of having a gentleman with us , sir , until you were kind enough to suggest it , and our accommodation's not extensive . 
We'll look about for a second hand stool , sir . 
'I have a word or two to say to you on points of business . 
'I'm ready , sir , quite ready . 
My time must be fully occupied indeed , sir , not to leave me time to walk with you . 
It's not everybody , sir , who has an opportunity of improving himself by the conversation of Mr Quilp . 
The dwarf glanced sarcastically at his brazen friend , and , with a short dry cough , turned upon his heel to bid adieu to Miss Sally . 
After a very gallant parting on his side , and a very cool and gentlemanly sort of one on hers , he nodded to Dick Swiveller , and withdrew with the attorney . 
At last he heaved a deep sigh , and began slowly pulling off his coat . 
But he had not written half a dozen words when , reaching over to the inkstand to take a fresh dip , he happened to raise his eyes . 
There was the intolerable brown head dress there was the green gown there , in short , was Miss Sally Brass , arrayed in all her charms , and more tremendous than ever . 
There was a very large ruler on the table a large , black , shining ruler . 
Mr Swiveller took it up and began to rub his nose with it . 
From rubbing his nose with the ruler , to poising it in his hand and giving it an occasional flourish after the tomahawk manner , the transition was easy and natural . 
Well , this was a great relief . 
'I am going out , said Miss Brass . 
'Very good , ma'am , returned Dick . 
'And don't hurry yourself on my account to come back , ma'am , he added inwardly . 
'If anybody comes on office business , take their messages , and say that the gentleman who attends to that matter isn't in at present , will you ? said Miss Brass . 
'I will , ma'am , replied Dick . 
'I shan't be very long , said Miss Brass , retiring . 
'I'm sorry to hear it , ma'am , rejoined Dick when she had shut the door . 
'I hope you may be unexpectedly detained , ma'am . 
If you could manage to be run over , ma'am , but not seriously , so much the better . 
'So I'm Brass's clerk , am I ? said Dick . 
'Brass's clerk , eh ? And the clerk of Brass's sister clerk to a female Dragon . 
No man knocks himself down if his destiny knocks him down , his destiny must pick him up again . 
Then I'm very glad that mine has brought all this upon itself , and I shall be as careless as I can , and make myself quite at home to spite it . 
He was occupied in this diversion when a coach stopped near the door , and presently afterwards there was a loud double knock . 
Mr Swiveller was wondering whether this might be another Miss Brass , twin sister to the Dragon , when there came a rapping of knuckles at the office door . 
'Come in ! said Dick . 
The business will get rather complicated if I've many more customers . 
She might as well have been dressed in a violin case . 
'Why , who are you ? said Dick . 
To which the only reply was , 'Oh , please will you come and show the lodgings ? There never was such an old fashioned child in her looks and manner . 
She must have been at work from her cradle . 
She seemed as much afraid of Dick , as Dick was amazed at her . 
'I hav'n't got anything to do with the lodgings , said Dick . 
'Tell 'em to call again . 
'Oh , but please will you come and show the lodgings , returned the girl 'It's eighteen shillings a week and us finding plate and linen . 
Boots and clothes is extra , and fires in winter time is eightpence a day . 
'Why don't you show 'em yourself ? You seem to know all about 'em , said Dick . 
'Miss Sally said I wasn't to , because people wouldn't believe the attendance was good if they saw how small I was first . 
'Well , but they'll see how small you are afterwards , won't they ? said Dick . 
'Ah ! But then they'll have taken 'em for a fortnight certain , replied the child with a shrewd look 'and people don't like moving when they're once settled . 
'This is a queer sort of thing , muttered Dick , rising . 
'What do you mean to say you are the cook ? 'Yes , I do plain cooking replied the child . 
'I'm housemaid too I do all the work of the house . 
'I suppose Brass and the Dragon and I do the dirtiest part of it , thought Dick . 
'I believe , sir , said Richard Swiveller , taking his pen out of his mouth , 'that you desire to look at these apartments . 
They are very charming apartments , sir . 
They command an uninterrupted view of of over the way , and they are within one minute's walk of of the corner of the street . 
There is exceedingly mild porter , sir , in the immediate vicinity , and the contingent advantages are extraordinary . 
'What's the rent ? said the single gentleman . 
'One pound per week , replied Dick , improving on the terms . 
'The boots and clothes are extras , said Dick 'and the fires in winter time are 'Are all agreed to , answered the single gentleman . 
'Two weeks certain , said Dick , 'are the 'Two weeks ! cried the single gentleman gruffly , eyeing him from top to toe . 
I shall live here for two years . 
'Why you see , said Dick , 'my name is not Brass , and 'Who said it was ? My name's not Brass . 
What then ? 'The name of the master of the house is , said Dick . 
'I'm glad of it , returned the single gentleman 'it's a good name for a lawyer . 
Coachman , you may go . 
So may you , Sir . 
Freed of these encumbrances , he went on to divest himself of his other clothing , which he folded up , piece by piece , and ranged in order on the trunk . 
Then , he pulled down the window blinds , drew the curtains , wound up his watch , and , quite leisurely and methodically , got into bed . 
'Take down the bill , were his parting words , as he looked out from between the curtains 'and let nobody call me till I ring the bell . 
With that the curtains closed , and he seemed to snore immediately . 
'This is a most remarkable and supernatural sort of house ! said Mr Swiveller , as he walked into the office with the bill in his hand . 
It's my destiny , however , and I hope Brass may like it . 
I shall be sorry if he don't . 
'Good morning , Mr Richard , said Brass , on the second day of Mr Swiveller's clerkship . 
'Sally found you a second hand stool , Sir , yesterday evening , in Whitechapel . 
She's a rare fellow at a bargain , I can tell you , Mr Richard . 
You'll find that a first rate stool , Sir , take my word for it . 
'It's rather a crazy one to look at , said Dick . 
'You'll find it a most amazing stool to sit down upon , you may depend , returned Mr Brass . 
'I hope it hasn't got any fevers or anything of that sort in it , said Dick , sitting himself down discontentedly , between Mr Sampson and the chaste Sally . 
'One of the legs is longer than the others . 
'Then we get a bit of timber in , Sir , retorted Brass . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! We get a bit of timber in , Sir , and that's another advantage of my sister's going to market for us . 
Miss Brass , Mr Richard is the 'Will you keep quiet ? interrupted the fair subject of these remarks , looking up from her papers . 
'How am I to work if you keep on chattering ? 'What an uncertain chap you are ! returned the lawyer . 
'Sometimes you're all for a chat . 
At another time you're all for work . 
A man never knows what humour he'll find you in . 
'I'm in a working humour now , said Sally , 'so don't disturb me , if you please . 
And don't take him , Miss Sally pointed with the feather of her pen to Richard , 'off his business . 
He won't do more than he can help , I dare say . 
'Done what , ma'am ? said Richard . 
'Ah ! I begin to think he'll never wake , observed Miss Sally . 
'It's a very remarkable circumstance , said Brass , laying down his pen 'really , very remarkable . 
Mr Swiveller took a large sheet of foolscap , and with a countenance of profound gravity , began to make a very small note in one corner . 
'We can never be too cautious , said Mr Brass . 
'There is a deal of wickedness going about the world , a deal of wickedness . 
Did the gentleman happen to say , Sir but never mind that at present , sir finish that little memorandum first . 
Dick did so , and handed it to Mr Brass , who had dismounted from his stool , and was walking up and down the office . 
'Oh , this is the memorandum , is it ? said Brass , running his eye over the document . 
Now , Mr Richard , did the gentleman say anything else ? 'No . 
'Are you sure , Mr Richard , said Brass , solemnly , 'that the gentleman said nothing else ? 'Devil a word , Sir , replied Dick . 
Dick looked at her , and then at Brass , and then at Miss Sally again , and still said 'No . 
'Pooh , pooh ! Deuce take it , Mr Richard , how dull you are ! cried Brass , relaxing into a smile . 
'Did he say anything about his property ? there ! 'That's the way to put it , said Miss Sally , nodding to her brother . 
'Why then , Mr Richard , said Brass , darting at him a supercilious and reproachful look , 'it's my opinion that you've mistaken your calling , and will never make a lawyer . 
'Not if you live a thousand years , added Miss Sally . 
Whereupon the brother and sister took each a noisy pinch of snuff from the little tin box , and fell into a gloomy thoughtfulness . 
Nothing further passed up to Mr Swiveller's dinner time , which was at three o'clock , and seemed about three weeks in coming . 
At the first stroke of the hour , the new clerk disappeared . 
At the last stroke of five , he reappeared , and the office , as if by magic , became fragrant with the smell of gin and water and lemon peel . 
'Mr Richard , said Brass , 'this man's not up yet . 
Nothing will wake him , sir . 
What's to be done ? 'I should let him have his sleep out , returned Dick . 
'Sleep out ! cried Brass 'why he has been asleep now , six and twenty hours . 
'Perhaps a ladder , suggested Dick , 'and getting in at the first floor window 'But then there's a door between besides , the neighbours would be up in arms , said Brass . 
'What do you say to getting on the roof of the house through the trap door , and dropping down the chimney ? suggested Dick . 
I dare say it would not be anything like as disagreeable as one supposes . 
Dick had made the suggestion , thinking that the duty might possibly fall within Miss Sally's department . 
'There are his boots , Mr Richard ! said Brass . 
'Very obstinate looking articles they are too , quoth Richard Swiveller . 
'I can't see anything but the curtain of the bed , said Brass , applying his eye to the keyhole of the door . 
'Is he a strong man , Mr Richard ? Very , answered Dick . 
It would be an extremely unpleasant circumstance if he was to bounce out suddenly , said Brass . 
I should be more than a match for him , of course , but I'm the master of the house , and the laws of hospitality must be respected . 
Suddenly the door was unlocked on the inside , and flung violently open . 
This idea , however , he abandoned . 
He was turning into his room again , still growling vengefully , when his eyes met those of the watchful Richard . 
'Have YOU been making that horrible noise ? said the single gentleman . 
'Is my peace nothing ? said the single gentleman . 
'Is their peace nothing , sir ? returned Dick . 
'Indeed ! cried the lodger . 
Instead of being thrown into a greater passion by these remarks , the lodger lapsed into a broad grin and looked at Mr Swiveller with twinkling eyes . 
He was a brown faced sun burnt man , and appeared browner and more sun burnt from having a white nightcap on . 
The lodger , in the testiness of being so rudely roused , had pushed his nightcap very much on one side of his bald head . 
'Come here , you impudent rascal ! was the lodger's answer as he re entered his room . 
Mr Swiveller followed him in , leaving the stool outside , but reserving the ruler in case of a surprise . 
He rather congratulated himself on his prudence when the single gentleman , without notice or explanation of any kind , double locked the door . 
'Can you drink anything ? was his next inquiry . 
Mr Swiveller replied that he had very recently been assuaging the pangs of thirst , but that he was still open to 'a modest quencher , if the materials were at hand . 
Greatly interested in his proceedings , Mr Swiveller observed him closely . 
'Hot water said the lodger , handing it to Mr Swiveller with as much coolness as if he had a kitchen fire before him 'extraordinary rum sugar and a travelling glass . 
Dick complied , his eyes wandering all the time from the temple on the table , which seemed to do everything , to the great trunk which seemed to hold everything . 
The lodger took his breakfast like a man who was used to work these miracles , and thought nothing of them . 
'The man of the house is a lawyer , is he not ? said the lodger . 
'The woman of the house what's she ? 'A dragon , said Dick . 
'So much the better , said the single gentleman , 'he can get rid of her when he likes . 
In this last respect , servants are the devil . 
'And a very little one , said Dick . 
'And a very little one , repeated the lodger . 
'Well , the place will suit me , will it ? 'Yes , said Dick . 
'Sharks , I suppose ? said the lodger . 
Dick nodded assent , and drained his glass . 
'Let them know my humour , said the single gentleman , rising . 
'If they disturb me , they lose a good tenant . 
If they know me to be that , they know enough . 
If they try to know more , it's a notice to quit . 
It's better to understand these things at once . 
'I beg your pardon , said Dick , halting in his passage to the door , which the lodger prepared to open . 
'Or in the case anybody should call . 
'Nobody ever calls on me . 
'If any mistake should arise from not having the name , don't say it was my fault , Sir , added Dick , still lingering . 
'Oh blame not the bard 'I'll blame nobody , said the lodger , with such irascibility that in a moment Dick found himself on the staircase , and the locked door between them . 
Mr Brass and Miss Sally were lurking hard by , having been , indeed , only routed from the keyhole by Mr Swiveller's abrupt exit . 
But quite apart from , and independent of , this source of popularity , Mr Swiveller had another , which promised to be equally enduring , and to lighten his position considerably . 
He found favour in the eyes of Miss Sally Brass . 
Miss Sally's accomplishments were all of a masculine and strictly legal kind . 
They began with the practice of an attorney and they ended with it . 
She was in a state of lawful innocence , so to speak . 
The law had been her nurse . 
By these means a friendship sprung up between them . 
Mr Swiveller gradually came to look upon her as her brother Sampson did , and as he would have looked upon any other clerk . 
Nobody ever came to see her , nobody spoke of her , nobody cared about her . 
, and that was all the information Richard Swiveller could obtain . 
'It's of no use asking the dragon , thought Dick one day , as he sat contemplating the features of Miss Sally Brass . 
'I suspect if I asked any questions on that head , our alliance would be at an end . 
I wonder whether she is a dragon by the bye , or something in the mermaid way . 
She has rather a scaly appearance . 
But mermaids are fond of looking at themselves in the glass , which she can't be . 
And they have a habit of combing their hair , which she hasn't . 
No , she's a dragon . 
'Where are you going , old fellow ? said Dick aloud , as Miss Sally wiped her pen as usual on the green dress , and uprose from her seat . 
'To dinner , answered the dragon . 
'To dinner ! thought Dick , 'that's another circumstance . 
I don't believe that small servant ever has anything to eat . 
'Sammy won't be home , said Miss Brass . 
'Stop till I come back . 
Dick nodded , and followed Miss Brass with his eyes to the door , and with his ears to a little back parlour , where she and her brother took their meals . 
My mother must have been a very inquisitive woman I have no doubt I'm marked with a note of interrogation somewhere . 
At that moment he caught a parting glimpse of the brown head dress of Miss Brass flitting down the kitchen stairs . 
'And by Jove ! thought Dick , 'she's going to feed the small servant . 
It was a very dark miserable place , very low and very damp the walls disfigured by a thousand rents and blotches . 
The water was trickling out of a leaky butt , and a most wretched cat was lapping up the drops with the sickly eagerness of starvation . 
The grate , which was a wide one , was wound and screwed up tight , so as to hold no more than a little thin sandwich of fire . 
Everything was locked up the coal cellar , the candle box , the salt box , the meat safe , were all padlocked . 
There was nothing that a beetle could have lunched upon . 
The pinched and meagre aspect of the place would have killed a chameleon . 
He would have known , at the first mouthful , that the air was not eatable , and must have given up the ghost in despair . 
The small servant stood with humility in presence of Miss Sally , and hung her head . 
'Are you there ? said Miss Sally . 
'Yes , ma'am , was the answer in a weak voice . 
'Go further away from the leg of mutton , or you'll be picking it , I know , said Miss Sally . 
The small servant looked hard enough at it with her hungry eyes to see every shred of it , small as it was , and answered , 'yes . 
'Then don't you ever go and say , retorted Miss Sally , 'that you hadn't meat here . 
There , eat it up . 
'Now , do you want any more ? said Miss Sally . 
The hungry creature answered with a faint 'No . 
They were evidently going through an established form . 
With those words , Miss Sally put the meat away and locked the safe , and then drawing near to the small servant , overlooked her while she finished the potatoes . 
But the secret of these discussions was of little importance . 
It was sufficient , in short , to know that Bevis Marks was revolutionised by these popular movements , and that peace and quietness fled from its precincts . 
'Come , said Mr Brass one afternoon , 'this is two days without a Punch . 
I'm in hopes he has run through 'em all , at last . 
'Why are you in hopes ? returned Miss Sally . 
'What harm do they do ? 'Here's a pretty sort of a fellow ! cried Brass , laying down his pen in despair . 
'Now here's an aggravating animal ! 'Well , what harm do they do ? retorted Sally . 
'What harm ! cried Brass . 
'Ah ! of brass , said the lawyer , glancing at his clerk , to assure himself that he had suggested the word in good faith and without any sinister intention . 
The single gentleman's door burst open . 
, the lodger returned with the show and showmen at his heels , and a strong addition to the body of spectators . 
The drama proceeded to its close , and held the spectators enchained in the customary manner . 
'Both of you , he called from the window for only the actual exhibitor a little fat man prepared to obey the summons . 
'I want to talk to you . 
Come both of you ! Come , Tommy , said the little man . 
I an't a talker , replied the other . 
What should I go and talk for ? 'Don't you see the gentleman's got a bottle and glass up there ? returned the little man . 
'And couldn't you have said so at first ? retorted the other with sudden alacrity . 
'Now , my men , said the single gentleman 'you have done very well . 
What will you take ? Tell that little man behind , to shut the door . 
'Shut the door , can't you ? said Mr Codlin , turning gruffly to his friend . 
'You might have knowed that the gentleman wanted the door shut , without being told , I think . 
The gentleman pointed to a couple of chairs , and intimated by an emphatic nod of his head that he expected them to be seated . 
'You're pretty well browned by the sun , both of you , said their entertainer . 
'Have you been travelling ? Mr Short replied in the affirmative with a nod and a smile . 
Mr Codlin added a corroborative nod and a short groan , as if he still felt the weight of the Temple on his shoulders . 
'To fairs , markets , races , and so forth , I suppose ? pursued the single gentleman . 
'Yes , sir , returned Short , 'pretty nigh all over the West of England . 
'It's our reg'lar summer circuit is the West , master , said Short 'that's where it is . 
We takes the East of London in the spring and winter , and the West of England in the summer time . 
Many's the hard day's walking in rain and mud , and with never a penny earned , we've had down in the West . 
'Let me fill your glass again . 
'Much obleeged to you sir , I think I will , said Mr Codlin , suddenly thrusting in his own and turning Short's aside . 
'I'm the sufferer , sir , in all the travelling , and in all the staying at home . 
In town or country , wet or dry , hot or cold , Tom Codlin suffers . 
But Tom Codlin isn't to complain for all that . 
Oh , no ! Short may complain , but if Codlin grumbles by so much as a word oh dear , down with him , down with him directly . 
It isn't his place to grumble . 
That's quite out of the question . 
'Codlin an't without his usefulness , observed Short with an arch look , 'but he don't always keep his eyes open . 
He falls asleep sometimes , you know . 
Remember them last races , Tommy . 
'Will you never leave off aggravating a man ? said Codlin . 
'You may as well drop the subject , Tom , said Short . 
'It isn't particular agreeable to the gentleman , I dare say . 
But , from the point where Mr Codlin was charged with sleepiness , he had shown an increasing interest in the discussion which now attained a very high pitch . 
They left you , you say at those races , as I understand . 
They have been traced to that place , and there lost sight of . 
Codlin's my friend , she says , with a tear of gratitude a trickling down her little eye Codlin's my friend , she says not Short . 
'Stay a minute , said Short . 
'A man of the name of Jerry you know Jerry , Thomas ? 'Oh , don't talk to me of Jerrys , replied Mr Codlin . 
Once , said that gentleman reflectively , 'she called me Father Codlin . 
'Is this man in town ? said the impatient single gentleman . 
'No he isn't , but he will be to morrow , for he lodges in our house , replied Mr Short rapidly . 
'Then bring him here , said the single gentleman . 
'Here's a sovereign a piece . 
If I can find these people through your means , it is but a prelude to twenty more . 
Return to me to morrow , and keep your own counsel on this subject though I need hardly tell you that for you'll do so for your own sakes . 
Now , give me your address , and leave me . 
In hollow voices from Workhouse , Hospital , and jail , this truth is preached from day to day , and has been proclaimed for years . 
It is no light matter no outcry from the working vulgar no mere question of the people's health and comforts that may be whistled down on Wednesday nights . 
'Pull up , Snobby , cried Mr Chuckster , addressing himself to Kit . 
'Has Mr Abel forgotten anything , I wonder ? said Kit as he dismounted . 
'Ask no questions , Snobby , returned Mr Chuckster , 'but go and see . 
Woa a a then , will you ? If that pony was mine , I'd break him . 
'You must be very gentle with him , if you please , said Kit , 'or you'll find him troublesome . 
You'd better not keep on pulling his ears , please . 
I know he won't like it . 
and tapped at the office door , which was quickly opened by the Notary himself . 
'Oh ! come in , Christopher , said Mr Witherden . 
'Is that the lad ? asked an elderly gentleman , but of a stout , bluff figure who was in the room . 
'That's the lad , said Mr Witherden . 
'He fell in with my client , Mr Garland , sir , at this very door . 
I have reason to think he is a good lad , sir , and that you may believe what he says . 
'Your servant , sir , said the stranger gentleman . 
'Yours , sir , I'm sure , replied Mr Abel mildly . 
'You were wishing to speak to Christopher , sir ? 'Yes , I was . 
Have I your permission ? 'By all means . 
'My business is no secret or I should rather say it need be no secret here , said the stranger , observing that Mr Abel and the Notary were preparing to retire . 
'It relates to a dealer in curiosities with whom he lived , and in whom I am earnestly and warmly interested . 
I have been a stranger to this country , gentlemen , for very many years , and if I am deficient in form and ceremony , I hope you will forgive me . 
'No forgiveness is necessary , sir none whatever , replied the Notary . 
And so said Mr Abel . 
'I have been making inquiries in the neighbourhood in which his old master lived , said the stranger , 'and I learn that he was served by this lad . 
I have found out his mother's house , and have been directed by her to this place as the nearest in which I should be likely to find him . 
That's the cause of my presenting myself here this morning . 
'I am very glad of any cause , sir , said the Notary , 'which procures me the honour of this visit . 
'Sir , retorted the stranger , 'you speak like a mere man of the world , and I think you something better . 
Therefore , pray do not sink your real character in paying unmeaning compliments to me . 
'Hem ! coughed the Notary . 
'You're a plain speaker , sir . 
'And a plain dealer , returned the stranger . 
If my speaking should offend you , sir , my dealing , I hope , will make amends . 
Don't be deceived , I beg of you , but rely upon my assurance . 
The fact is , gentlemen , he added , turning again to the Notary and his pupil , 'that I am in a very painful and wholly unexpected position . 
I came to this city with a darling object at my heart , expecting to find no obstacle or difficulty in the way of its attainment . 
I find myself suddenly checked and stopped short , in the execution of my design , by a mystery which I cannot penetrate . 
'Not by inquiry , said the gentleman shaking his head . 
'Live at Brass's the attorney's ! cried Mr Witherden in some surprise having professional knowledge of the gentleman in question . 
'Aye , was the reply . 
'I entered on his lodgings t'other day , chiefly because I had seen this very board . 
it matters little to me where I live , and I had a desperate hope that some intelligence might be cast in my way there , which would not reach me elsewhere . 
Yes , I live at Brass's more shame for me , I suppose ? 'That's a mere matter of opinion , said the Notary , shrugging his shoulders . 
'He is looked upon as rather a doubtful character . 
'Doubtful ? echoed the other . 
'I am glad to hear there's any doubt about it . 
I supposed that had been thoroughly settled , long ago . 
The stranger had left his hat in Mr Witherden's room , and seemed to have established himself in this short interval on quite a friendly footing . 
'I'll not detain you any longer now , he said , putting a crown into Kit's hand , and looking towards the Notary . 
'You shall hear from me again . 
Not a word of this , you know , except to your master and mistress . 
'Mother , sir , would be glad to know said Kit , faltering . 
'Glad to know what ? 'Anything so that it was no harm about Miss Nell . 
'Would she ? Well then , you may tell her if she can keep a secret . 
But mind , not a word of this to anybody else . 
'I'll take care , sir , said Kit . 
'Thankee , sir , and good morning . 
It was quite an accident , and the way in which it came about was this . 
Mr Chuckster , being a gentleman of a cultivated taste and refined spirit , was one of that Lodge of Glorious Apollos whereof Mr Swiveller was Perpetual Grand . 
'Hallo ! said Dick , 'who is that ? 'He called to see my Governor this morning , replied Mr Chuckster 'beyond that , I don't know him from Adam . 
'At least you know his name ? said Dick . 
To which Mr Chuckster replied , with an elevation of speech becoming a Glorious Apollo , that he was 'everlastingly blessed' if he did . 
re entered the house , and Kit came down the steps and joined them to whom Mr Swiveller again propounded his inquiry with no better success . 
'He is a very nice gentleman , Sir , said Kit , 'and that's all I know about him . 
'It's hard work , said Richard . 
'What do you say to some beer ? Kit at first declined , but presently consented , and they adjourned to the neighbouring bar together . 
'I must be going , sir , if you please , said Kit , moving away . 
'Don't be in a hurry , Christopher , replied his patron , 'we'll drink your mother . 
'An excellent woman that mother of yours , Christopher , said Mr Swiveller . 
'Who ran to catch me when I fell , and kissed the place to make it well ? My mother . 
He's a liberal sort of fellow . 
We must get him to do something for your mother . 
Does he know her , Christopher ? Kit shook his head , and glancing slyly at his questioner , thanked him , and made off before he could say another word . 
'Humph ! said Mr Swiveller pondering , 'this is queer . 
Nothing but mysteries in connection with Brass's house . 
I'll keep my own counsel , however . 
Everybody and anybody has been in my confidence as yet , but now I think I'll set up in business for myself . 
the Perpetual Grand Master of the Glorious Apollos thrust his hands into his pockets and sauntered away still pondering as he went . 
, and when the bell rang for them to go up stairs and receive their quarter's money in gold and silver . 
'We must have been made to know each other . 
'I haven't a doubt about it , returned Mrs Nubbles . 
'And what a pity it is we didn't know each other sooner . 
'But then , you know , it's such a pleasure , said Barbara's mother , 'to have it brought about by one's son and daughter , that it's fully made up for . 
she almost thought was a pity . 
'As handsome as her ? said Kit . 
'Oh Christopher ! I'm sure she was the beautifullest creature ever was , said Barbara . 
'She was well enough , I don't deny that but think how she was dressed and painted , and what a difference that made . 
Why YOU are a good deal better looking than her , Barbara . 
'Oh Christopher ! said Barbara , looking down . 
'You are , any day , said Kit , and so's your mother . 
But all happiness has an end hence the chief pleasure of its next beginning and as it was now growing late , they agreed it was time to turn their faces homewards . 
Then , Kit took little Jacob on his back , and giving his arm to his mother , and a kiss to the baby , they all trudged merrily home together . 
Such is the difference between yesterday and today . 
We are all going to the play , or coming home from it . 
However , the Sun himself is weak when he first rises , and gathers strength and courage as the day gets on . 
Barbara had been silent all the way , but she said so too . 
Poor little Barbara ! She was very quiet . 
Mr Abel walked out , to be overtaken by the London coach , and Kit and the old gentleman went to work in the garden . 
This was not the least pleasant of Kit's employments . 
The old lady and Whisker looked on as usual . 
'You have made a new friend , I hear from Mr Abel , said the old gentleman , 'at the office ! 'Oh ! Yes Sir , yes . 
He behaved very handsome , Sir . 
'I'm glad to hear it , returned the old gentlemen with a smile . 
'He is disposed to behave more handsomely still , though , Christopher . 
'Indeed , Sir ! It's very kind in him , but I don't want him to , I'm sure , said Kit , hammering stoutly at an obdurate nail . 
'He is rather anxious , pursued the old gentleman , 'to have you in his own service take care what you're doing , or you will fall down and hurt yourself . 
'To have me in his service , Sir ? cried Kit , who had stopped short in his work and faced about on the ladder like some dexterous tumbler . 
'Why , Sir , I don't think he can be in earnest when he says that . 
'Oh ! But he is indeed , said Mr Garland . 
'And he has told Mr Abel so . 
'I never heard of such a thing ! muttered Kit , looking ruefully at his master and mistress . 
'I wonder at him that I do . 
'You see , Christopher , said Mr Garland , 'this is a point of much importance to you , and you should understand and consider it in that light . 
'Well , said Kit , 'after that , Sir 'Wait a moment , interposed Mr Garland . 
Besides , added the old gentleman with stronger emphasis , 'besides having the pleasure of being again brought into communication with those to whom you seem to be very strongly and disinterestedly attached . 
You must think of all this , Christopher , and not be rash or hasty in your choice . 
But it was gone in a minute , and he sturdily rejoined that the gentleman must look out for somebody else , as he did think he might have done at first . 
'He has no right to think that I'd be led away to go to him , sir , said Kit , turning round again after half a minute's hammering . 
'Does he think I'm a fool ? 'He may , perhaps , Christopher , if you refuse his offer , said Mr Garland gravely . 
would he let anybody come near him but me , ma'am ? Here's the garden , sir , and Mr Abel , ma'am . 
'Oh ! said the old gentleman after reading it , 'ask the messenger to walk this way . 
Oh ! here is the young gentleman . 
'Hope I see you well sir , returned that gentleman . 
'Hope I see YOU well , ma'am . 
Charming box' this , sir . 
Delicious country to be sure . 
'You want to take Kit back with you , I find ? observed Mr Garland . 
'I have got a chariot cab waiting on purpose , replied the clerk . 
'A very spanking grey in that cab , sir , if you're a judge of horse flesh . 
That gentleman readily consenting , certain cold viands , flanked with ale and wine , were speedily prepared for his refreshment . 
of jewellery , perfumery , hair powder for five footmen , and two daily changes of kid gloves for a page . 
'And now that the nag has got his wind again , said Mr Chuckster rising in a graceful manner , 'I'm afraid I must cut my stick . 
'Christopher , said the gentleman , turning to him directly he entered the room , 'I have found your old master and young mistress . 
'No , Sir ! Have you , though ? returned Kit , his eyes sparkling with delight . 
'Where are they , Sir ? How are they , Sir ? Are they are they near here ? 'A long way from here , returned the gentleman , shaking his head . 
'But I am going away to night to bring them back , and I want you to go with me . 
'Me , Sir ? cried Kit , full of joy and surprise . 
'Humph ! If we travel post all night , we shall reach there in good time to morrow morning . 
'Take Christopher by all means . 
I should spoil all that you were doing if I went , I'm afraid . 
I'd give the world to go , but you had better not take me , Sir . 
'Another difficulty ! cried the impetuous gentleman . 
'Not one , Sir , replied Kit . 
'Yes , though there's my mother . 
'Did they know her ? said the single gentleman . 
'Know her , Sir ! why , she was always coming backwards and forwards . 
They were as kind to her as they were to me . 
Bless you , Sir , she expected they'd come back to her house . 
'Then where the devil is the woman ? said the impatient gentleman , catching up his hat . 
It was a gloomy autumn evening , and he thought the old place had never looked so dismal as in its dreary twilight . 
And sure enough there's no light , and the door's fast . 
A second knock brought no reply from within the house but caused a woman over the way to look out and inquire who that was , awanting Mrs Nubbles . 
'She's at at Little Bethel , I suppose ? getting out the name of the obnoxious conventicle with some reluctance , and laying a spiteful emphasis upon the words . 
'Then pray tell me where it is , said Kit , 'for I have come on a pressing matter , and must fetch her out , even if she was in the pulpit . 
Kit found it , at last , after some trouble , and pausing at the door to take breath that he might enter with becoming decency , passed into the chapel . 
, he signed to him to rouse his mother . 
'If I must do it openly , I must , thought Kit . 
'Hush , mother ! whispered Kit . 
'Come along with me , I've got something to tell you . 
'Where am I ? said Mrs Nubbles . 
'In this blessed Little Bethel , returned her son , peevishly . 
'Blessed indeed ! cried Mrs Nubbles , catching at the word . 
'Oh , Christopher , how have I been edified this night ! 'Yes , yes , I know , said Kit hastily 'but come along , mother , everybody's looking at us . 
Don't make a noise bring Jacob that's right ! 'Stay , Satan , stay ! cried the preacher , as Kit was moving off . 
'This gentleman says you're to stay , Christopher , whispered his mother . 
'Stay , Satan , stay ! roared the preacher again . 
'Tempt not the woman that doth incline her ear to thee , but harken to the voice of him that calleth . 
He hath a lamb from the fold ! cried the preacher , raising his voice still higher and pointing to the baby . 
'He's MY brother ! cried the preacher . 
'He isn't , said Kit indignantly . 
I wanted to do it very quiet , but you wouldn't let me . 
Now , you have the goodness to abuse Satan and them , as much as you like , Sir , and to let me alone if you please . 
'Oh Kit ! said his mother , with her handkerchief to her eyes , 'what have you done ! I never can go there again never ! 'I'm glad of it , mother . 
What was there in the little bit of pleasure you took last night that made it necessary for you to be low spirited and sorrowful tonight ? That's the way you do . 
If you're happy or merry ever , you come here to say , along with that chap , that you're sorry for it . 
More shame for you , mother , I was going to say . 
'Hush , dear ! said Mrs Nubbles 'you don't mean what you say I know , but you're talking sinfulness . 
'Don't mean it ? But I do mean it ! retorted Kit . 
I'll give you the news I bring , which will surprise you a little , I can tell you . 
That's what you've got to say to him , Jacob . 
'There's only ten minutes now , mother , said Kit when they reached home . 
Throw in what you want , and we'll be off directly . 
'With four horses I declare ! said Kit , quite aghast at the preparations . 
'Well you ARE going to do it , mother ! Here she is , Sir . 
She's quite ready , sir . 
'That's well , returned the gentleman . 
'Now , don't be in a flutter , ma'am you'll be taken great care of . 
Where's the box with the new clothing and necessaries for them ? 'Here it is , said the Notary . 
'In with it , Christopher . 
'All right , Sir , replied Kit . 
'Quite ready now , sir . 
'Then come along , said the single gentleman . 
And thereupon he gave his arm to Kit's mother , handed her into the carriage as politely as you please , and took his seat beside her . 
The sisters had gone home , and she was alone . 
The child sat silently beneath a tree , hushed in her very breath by the stillness of the night , and all its attendant wonders . 
Between the old man and herself there had come a gradual separation , harder to bear than any former sorrow . 
She sat meditating sorrowfully upon this change , and mingling it , as it were , with everything about her , when the distant church clock bell struck nine . 
Rising at the sound , she retraced her steps , and turned thoughtfully towards the town . 
, but quickened her pace a little , and kept straight on . 
A movement of timid curiosity impelled her , when she approached the spot , to glance towards the fire . 
There was a form between it and her , the outline strongly developed against the light , which caused her to stop abruptly . 
She turned , and looked back . 
The person had been seated before , but was now in a standing posture , and leaning forward on a stick on which he rested both hands . 
The attitude was no less familiar to her than the tone of voice had been . 
Her first impulse was to call to him her next to wonder who his associates could be , and for what purpose they were together . 
In this way she advanced within a few feet of the fire , and standing among a few young trees , could both see and hear , without much danger of being observed . 
One of the low , arched gipsy tents , common to that people , was pitched hard by , but it either was , or appeared to be , empty . 
'Well , are you going ? said the stout man , looking up from the ground where he was lying at his ease , into her grandfather's face . 
'You were in a mighty hurry a minute ago . 
Go , if you like . 
'You keep me poor , and plunder me , and make a sport and jest of me besides , said the old man , turning from one to the other . 
'Ye'll drive me mad among ye . 
The utter irresolution and feebleness of the grey haired child , contrasted with the keen and cunning looks of those in whose hands he was , smote upon the little listener's heart . 
But she constrained herself to attend to all that passed , and to note each look and word . 
'Confound you , what do you mean ? said the stout man rising a little , and supporting himself on his elbow . 
'Keep you poor ! You'd keep us poor if you could , wouldn't you ? That's the way with you whining , puny , pitiful players . 
When you lose , you're martyrs but I don't find that when you win , you look upon the other losers in that light . 
The old man stood helplessly among them for a little time , and then said , turning to his assailant 'You yourself were speaking of plunder just now , you know . 
Don't be so violent with me . 
'Don't be hard upon him , Jowl , said Isaac List . 
'He's very sorry for giving offence . 
There go on with what you were saying go on . 
But that's the way I've gone through life . 
Experience has never put a chill upon my warm heartedness . 
'I tell you he's very sorry , don't I ? remonstrated Isaac List , 'and that he wishes you'd go on . 
'Does he wish it ? said the other . 
'Ay , groaned the old man sitting down , and rocking himself to and fro . 
'Go on , go on . 
It's in vain to fight with it I can't do it go on . 
'I go on then , said Jowl , 'where I left off , when you got up so quick . 
, help yourself to what seems put in your way on purpose . 
Borrow it , I say , and , when you're able , pay it back again . 
I'd give him his revenge to the last farthing he brought , whatever the amount was . 
'But could you ? urged Isaac List . 
'Is your bank strong enough ? 'Strong enough ! answered the other , with assumed disdain . 
'Do you see this ? he said , gathering up the money in his hand and letting it drop back into the box , between his fingers , like water . 
'My advice , said Jowl , lying down again with a careless air , 'is plain I have given it , in fact . 
I act as a friend . 
'I blame you ! returned the person addressed 'not for the world , Mr Jowl . 
'I'll have it , every penny . 
'Why , that's brave , cried Isaac , jumping up and slapping him on the shoulder 'and I respect you for having so much young blood left . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Joe Jowl's half sorry he advised you now . 
We've got the laugh against him . 
Remember that ! 'I'm witness , returned Isaac . 
'I'll see fair between you . 
'I have passed my word , said Jowl with feigned reluctance , 'and I'll keep it . 
When does this match come off ? I wish it was over . 
To night ? 'I must have the money first , said the old man 'and that I'll have to morrow 'Why not to night ? urged Jowl . 
'It's late now , and I should be flushed and flurried , said the old man . 
'It must be softly done . 
No , to morrow night . 
'Then to morrow be it , said Jowl . 
'A drop of comfort here . 
Luck to the best man ! Fill ! The gipsy produced three tin cups , and filled them to the brim with brandy . 
The old man turned aside and muttered to himself before he drank . 
Her own name struck upon the listener's ear , coupled with some wish so fervent , that he seemed to breathe it in an agony of supplication . 
The old man then shook hands with his tempters , and withdrew . 
It was not until they had seen him gradually diminish into a mere speck upon the distant road , that they turned to each other , and ventured to laugh aloud . 
'So , said Jowl , warming his hands at the fire , 'it's done at last . 
He wanted more persuading than I expected . 
It's three weeks ago , since we first put this in his head . 
What'll he bring , do you think ? 'Whatever he brings , it's halved between us , returned Isaac List . 
'We must make quick work of it , he said , 'and then cut his acquaintance , or we may be suspected . 
List and the gipsy acquiesced . 
Then , she remembered that the crime was not to be committed until next night , and there was the intermediate time for thinking , and resolving what to do . 
It was impossible to bear such torture . 
She stole to the room where the money was , opened the door , and looked in . 
God be praised ! He was not there , and she was sleeping soundly . 
She went back to her own room , and tried to prepare herself for bed . 
But who could sleep sleep ! who could lie passively down , distracted by such terrors ? They came upon her more and more strongly yet . 
Half undressed , and with her hair in wild disorder , she flew to the old man's bedside , clasped him by the wrist , and roused him from his sleep . 
'What's this ! he cried , starting up in bed , and fixing his eyes upon her spectral face . 
'I have had a dreadful dream , said the child , with an energy that nothing but such terrors could have inspired . 
'A dreadful , horrible dream . 
I have had it once before . 
It is a dream of grey haired men like you , in darkened rooms by night , robbing sleepers of their gold . 
Up , up ! The old man shook in every joint , and folded his hands like one who prays . 
'Not to me , said the child , 'not to me to Heaven , to save us from such deeds ! This dream is too real . 
I cannot sleep , I cannot stay here , I cannot leave you alone under the roof where such dreams come . 
Up ! We must fly . 
He looked at her as if she were a spirit she might have been for all the look of earth she had and trembled more and more . 
'There is no time to lose I will not lose one minute , said the child . 
'Up ! and away with me ! 'To night ? murmured the old man . 
'Yes , to night , replied the child . 
'To morrow night will be too late . 
The dream will have come again . 
Nothing but flight can save us . 
She took him by the hand and led him on . 
As they passed the door of the room he had proposed to rob , she shuddered and looked up into his face . 
The old man took his wallet from her hands and strapped it on his shoulders his staff , too , she had brought away and then she led him forth . 
Through the strait streets , and narrow crooked outskirts , their trembling feet passed quickly . 
Up the steep hill too , crowned by the old grey castle , they toiled with rapid steps , and had not once looked behind . 
There was no divided responsibility now the whole burden of their two lives had fallen upon her , and henceforth she must think and act for both . 
'I have saved him , she thought . 
'In all dangers and distresses , I will remember that . 
But now , all other considerations were lost in the new uncertainties and anxieties of their wild and wandering life and the very desperation of their condition roused and stimulated her . 
The night crept on apace , the moon went down , the stars grew pale and dim , and morning , cold as they , slowly approached . 
When it had climbed higher into the sky , and there was warmth in its cheerful beams , they laid them down to sleep , upon a bank , hard by some water . 
But Nell retained her grasp upon the old man's arm , and long after he was slumbering soundly , watched him with untiring eyes . 
Fatigue stole over her at last her grasp relaxed , tightened , relaxed again , and they slept side by side . 
A confused sound of voices , mingling with her dreams , awoke her . 
'Holloa ! said the man roughly . 
'What's the matter here ? 'We were only asleep , Sir , said Nell . 
'We have been walking all night . 
'A pair of queer travellers to be walking all night , observed the man who had first accosted them . 
'One of you is a trifle too old for that sort of work , and the other a trifle too young . 
Where are you going ? Nell faltered , and pointed at hazard towards the West , upon which the man inquired if she meant a certain town which he named . 
Nell , to avoid more questioning , said 'Yes , that was the place . 
'I thought somebody had been robbing and ill using you , might be , said the man . 
Returning his salute and feeling greatly relieved by his departure , Nell looked after him as he mounted one of the horses , and the boat went on . 
It had not gone very far , when it stopped again , and she saw the men beckoning to her . 
'Did you call to me ? said Nell , running up to them . 
'You may go with us if you like , replied one of those in the boat . 
'We're going to the same place . 
The child hesitated for a moment . 
They were , in truth , very rugged , noisy fellows , and quite brutal among themselves , though civil enough to their two passengers . 
The same spirit which had supported her on the previous night , upheld and sustained her now . 
Her grandfather lay sleeping safely at her side , and the crime to which his madness urged him , was not committed . 
Let me hear a song this minute . 
'I don't think I know one , sir , returned Nell . 
'You know forty seven songs , said the man , with a gravity which admitted of no altercation on the subject . 
Let me hear one of 'em the best . 
Give me a song this minute . 
At length the morning dawned . 
It was no sooner light than it began to rain heavily . 
As the day advanced the rain increased . 
At noon it poured down more hopelessly and heavily than ever without the faintest promise of abatement . 
They had , for some time , been gradually approaching the place for which they were bound . 
The boat floated into the wharf to which it belonged . 
The men were occupied directly . 
They withdrew into a low archway for shelter from the rain , and watched the faces of those who passed , to find in one among them a ray of encouragement or hope . 
It was like being in the confidence of all these people to stand quietly there , looking into their faces as they flitted past . 
The working day faces come nearer to the truth , and let it out more plainly . 
No one passed who seemed to notice them , or to whom she durst appeal . 
After some time , they left their place of refuge from the weather , and mingled with the concourse . 
They were still wandering up and down , with fewer people about them , but with the same sense of solitude in their own breasts , and the same indifference from all around . 
The lights in the streets and shops made them feel yet more desolate , for with their help , night and darkness seemed to come on faster . 
Shivering with the cold and damp , ill in body , and sick to death at heart , the child needed her utmost firmness and resolution even to creep along . 
But here again they were disappointed , for the gate was closed , and some fierce dogs , barking at their approach , obliged them to retreat . 
'Why did you bring me here ? returned the old man fiercely . 
'I cannot bear these close eternal streets . 
We came from a quiet part . 
Dear grandfather , you are old and weak , I know but look at me . 
I never will complain if you will not , but I have some suffering indeed . 
'How came you to think of resting there ? he said . 
'What can I do ! The man looked at Nell again , and gently touched her garments , from which the rain was running off in little streams . 
'I can give you warmth , he said , after a pause 'nothing else . 
Such lodging as I have , is in that house , pointing to the doorway from which he had emerged , 'but she is safer and better there than here . 
The fire is in a rough place , but you can pass the night beside it safely , if you'll trust yourselves to me . 
You see that red light yonder ? They raised their eyes , and saw a lurid glare hanging in the dark sky the dull reflection of some distant fire . 
'It's not far , said the man . 
'Shall I take you there ? You were going to sleep upon cold bricks I can give you a bed of warm ashes nothing better . 
Without waiting for any further reply than he saw in their looks , he took Nell in his arms , and bade the old man follow . 
'This is the place , he said , pausing at a door to put Nell down and take her hand . 
There's nobody here will harm you . 
It needed a strong confidence in this assurance to induce them to enter , and what they saw inside did not diminish their apprehension and alarm . 
Others , reposing upon heaps of coals or ashes , with their faces turned to the black vault above , slept or rested from their toil . 
Others again , opening the white hot furnace doors , cast fuel on the flames , which came rushing and roaring forth to meet it , and licked it up like oil . 
The old man was stretched beside her , and with her hand upon his neck she lay and dreamed . 
It was yet night when she awoke , nor did she know how long , or for how short a time , she had slept . 
'I feared you were ill , she said . 
'The other men are all in motion , and you are so very quiet . 
'They leave me to myself , he replied . 
They laugh at me , but don't harm me in it . 
See yonder there that's my friend . 
'The fire ? said the child . 
'It has been alive as long as I have , the man made answer . 
'We talk and think together all night long . 
The child glanced quickly at him in her surprise , but he had turned his eyes in their former direction , and was musing as before . 
'It's like a book to me , he said 'the only book I ever learned to read and many an old story it tells me . 
It's music , for I should know its voice among a thousand , and there are other voices in its roar . 
It has its pictures too . 
You don't know how many strange faces and different scenes I trace in the red hot coals . 
It's my memory , that fire , and shows me all my life . 
The child , bending down to listen to his words , could not help remarking with what brightened eyes he continued to speak and muse . 
'Yes , he said , with a faint smile , 'it was the same when I was quite a baby , and crawled about it , till I fell asleep . 
My father watched it then . 
'Had you no mother ? asked the child . 
'No , she was dead . 
Women work hard in these parts . 
She worked herself to death they told me , and , as they said so then , the fire has gone on saying the same thing ever since . 
I suppose it was true . 
I have always believed it . 
'Were you brought up here , then ? said the child . 
'Summer and winter , he replied . 
'Secretly at first , but when they found it out , they let him keep me here . 
So the fire nursed me the same fire . 
It has never gone out . 
'You are fond of it ? said the child . 
I saw him fall down just there , where those ashes are burning now and wondered , I remember , why it didn't help him . 
'Have you been here ever since ? asked the child . 
'Ever since I came to watch it but there was a while between , and a very cold dreary while it was . 
It burned all the time though , and roared and leaped when I came back , as it used to do in our play days . 
I thought of those old times again , when I saw you sleeping by it . 
You should be sleeping now . 
The clang and tumult were still going on , and the remorseless fires were burning fiercely as before for few changes of night and day brought rest or quiet there . 
Her friend parted his breakfast a scanty mess of coffee and some coarse bread with the child and her grandfather , and inquired whither they were going . 
She told him that they sought some distant country place remote from towns or even other villages , and with a faltering tongue inquired what road they would do best to take . 
But there are such places yonder . 
'And far from here ? said Nell . 
'We are here and must go on , said the child boldly for she saw that the old man listened with anxious ears to this account . 
'Rough people paths never made for little feet like yours a dismal blighted way is there no turning back , my child ! 'There is none , cried Nell , pressing forward . 
'If you can direct us , do . 
If not , pray do not seek to turn us from our purpose . 
'God forbid , if it is so ! said their uncouth protector , glancing from the eager child to her grandfather , who hung his head and bent his eyes upon the ground . 
'I'll direct you from the door , the best I can . 
I wish I could do more . 
He showed them , then , by which road they must leave the town , and what course they should hold when they had gained it . 
He lingered so long on these instructions , that the child , with a fervent blessing , tore herself away , and stayed to hear no more . 
CHAPTER In all their journeying , they had never longed so ardently , they had never so pined and wearied , for the freedom of pure air and open country , as now . 
'Two days and nights ! thought the child . 
'He said two days and nights we should have to spend among such scenes as these . 
I saw that he looked at us and thought of that , when he said how long we should be upon the road . 
'It was a dreary way he told us of , returned her grandfather , piteously . 
We would not , dear , would we ? 'No , replied the old man , wavering in his voice , no less than in his manner . 
I am quite ready , Nell . 
The child walked with more difficulty than she had led her companion to expect , for the pains that racked her joints were of no common severity , and every exertion increased them . 
But they wrung from her no complaint , or look of suffering and , though the two travellers proceeded very slowly , they did proceed . 
Clearing the town in course of time , they began to feel that they were fairly on their way . 
Advancing more and more into the shadow of this mournful place , its dark depressing influence stole upon their spirits , and filled them with a dismal gloom . 
She tried to recall the way they had come , and to look in the direction where the fire by which they had slept last night was burning . 
A penny loaf was all they had had that day . 
It was very little , but even hunger was forgotten in the strange tranquillity that crept over her senses . 
She lay down , very gently , and , with a quiet smile upon her face , fell into a slumber . 
It was not like sleep and yet it must have been , or why those pleasant dreams of the little scholar all night long ! Morning came . 
She felt a hopelessness of their ever being extricated together from that forlorn place a dull conviction that she was very ill , perhaps dying but no fear or anxiety . 
A loathing of food that she was not conscious of until they expended their last penny in the purchase of another loaf , prevented her partaking even of this poor repast . 
Her grandfather ate greedily , which she was glad to see . 
Their way lay through the same scenes as yesterday , with no variety or improvement . 
There was the same thick air , difficult to breathe the same blighted ground , the same hopeless prospect , the same misery and distress . 
Poor child ! the cause was in her tottering feet . 
Towards the afternoon , her grandfather complained bitterly of hunger . 
She approached one of the wretched hovels by the way side , and knocked with her hand upon the door . 
'What would you have here ? said a gaunt man , opening it . 
'Do you see that ? returned the man hoarsely , pointing to a kind of bundle on the ground . 
I and five hundred other men were thrown out of work , three months ago . 
That is my third dead child , and last . 
Do you think I have charity to bestow , or a morsel of bread to spare ? The child recoiled from the door , and it closed upon her . 
Impelled by strong necessity , she knocked at another a neighbouring one , which , yielding to the slight pressure of her hand , flew open . 
It seemed that a couple of poor families lived in this hovel , for two women , each among children of her own , occupied different portions of the room . 
In the centre , stood a grave gentleman in black who appeared to have just entered , and who held by the arm a boy . 
'Here , woman , he said , 'here's your deaf and dumb son . 
You may thank me for restoring him to you . 
He was brought before me , this morning , charged with theft and with any other boy it would have gone hard , I assure you . 
But , as I had compassion on his infirmities , and thought he might have learnt no better , I have managed to bring him back to you . 
Take more care of him for the future . 
'And won't you give me back MY son ! said the other woman , hastily rising and confronting him . 
'Won't you give me back MY son , Sir , who was transported for the same offence ! 'Was he deaf and dumb , woman ? asked the gentleman sternly . 
'Was he not , Sir ? 'You know he was not . 
'He was , cried the woman . 
'He was deaf , dumb , and blind , to all that was good and right , from his cradle . 
'He was , cried the mother 'and he was the more easy to be led astray because he had them . 
'You are desperate , said the gentleman , taking out his snuff box , 'and I am sorry for you . 
'I AM desperate , returned the woman , 'and you have made me so . 
Give me back my son , to work for these helpless children . 
She led the old man softly from the door , and they pursued their journey . 
Evening was drawing on , but had not closed in , when still travelling among the same dismal objects they came to a busy town . 
Faint and spiritless as they were , its streets were insupportable . 
They were dragging themselves along through the last street , and the child felt that the time was close at hand when her enfeebled powers would bear no more . 
It was not an easy matter to come up with him , and beseech his aid , for he walked fast , and was a little distance in advance . 
At length , he stopped , to look more attentively at some passage in his book . 
The child clapped her hands together , uttered a wild shriek , and fell senseless at his feet . 
CHAPTER It was the poor schoolmaster . 
No other than the poor schoolmaster . 
'She is quite exhausted , said the schoolmaster , glancing upward into his face . 
'You have taxed her powers too far , friend . 
'She is perishing of want , rejoined the old man . 
'I never thought how weak and ill she was , till now . 
There was a small inn within sight , to which , it would seem , he had been directing his steps when so unexpectedly overtaken . 
The company , who rose in confusion on the schoolmaster's entrance , did as people usually do under such circumstances . 
Then he looked at her tongue , then he felt her pulse again , and while he did so , he eyed the half emptied wine glass as if in profound abstraction . 
'I should give her , said the doctor at length , 'a tea spoonful , every now and then , of hot brandy and water . 
'Why , that's exactly what we've done , sir ! said the delighted landlady . 
'Ay , said the doctor , in the tone of a man who makes a dignified concession . 
'And a toast of bread . 
But be very particular to make it of bread , if you please , ma'am . 
With which parting injunction , slowly and portentously delivered , the doctor departed , leaving the whole house in admiration of that wisdom which tallied so closely with their own . 
Everybody said he was a very shrewd doctor indeed , and knew perfectly what people's constitutions were which there appears some reason to suppose he did . 
While her supper was preparing , the child fell into a refreshing sleep , from which they were obliged to rouse her when it was ready . 
Finding her still very restless on this head , they made him up a bed in an inner room , to which he presently retired . 
The landlady , by no means satisfied with this assurance , which she considered an ingenious evasion of the question , rejoined that he had his reasons of course . 
Heaven forbid that she should wish to pry into the affairs of her customers , which indeed were no business of hers , who had so many of her own . 
She had merely asked a civil question , and to be sure she knew it would meet with a civil answer . 
She was quite satisfied quite . 
She had rather perhaps that he would have said at once that he didn't choose to be communicative , because that would have been plain and intelligible . 
However , she had no right to be offended of course . 
He was the best judge , and had a perfect right to say what he pleased nobody could dispute that for a moment . 
Oh dear , no ! 'I assure you , my good lady , said the mild schoolmaster , 'that I have told you the plain truth . 
As I hope to be saved , I have told you the truth . 
'Why then , I do believe you are in earnest , rejoined the landlady , with ready good humour , 'and I'm very sorry I have teazed you . 
But curiosity you know is the curse of our sex , and that's the fact . 
'As it is , please to take care of her in the morning , and let me know early how she is and to understand that I am paymaster for the three . 
, the schoolmaster went to his bed , and the host and hostess to theirs . 
The schoolmaster received this communication with perfect cheerfulness , observing that he had a day to spare two days for that matter and could very well afford to wait . 
'It makes me unhappy even in the midst of all this kindness' said the child , 'to think that we should be a burden upon you . 
How can I ever thank you ? If I had not met you so far from home , I must have died , and he would have been left alone . 
'We'll not talk about dying , said the schoolmaster 'and as to burdens , I have made my fortune since you slept at my cottage . 
'Indeed ! cried the child joyfully . 
'Oh yes , returned her friend . 
Five and thirty pounds ! 'I am very glad , said the child , 'so very , very glad . 
'I am on my way there now , resumed the schoolmaster . 
'They allowed me the stage coach hire outside stage coach hire all the way . 
Bless you , they grudge me nothing . 
But as the time at which I am expected there , left me ample leisure , I determined to walk instead . 
I have felt since that time as if my love for him who died , had been transferred to you who stood beside his bed . 
The schoolmaster heard her with astonishment . 
'We shall be sure to succeed , said the schoolmaster , heartily . 
'The cause is too good a one to fail . 
Then the going on again so fresh at first , and shortly afterwards so sleepy . 
The doors , too , were arched and low , some with oaken portals and quaint benches , where the former inhabitants had sat on summer evenings . 
The windows were latticed in little diamond panes , that seemed to wink and blink upon the passengers as if they were dim of sight . 
When they had passed through this town , they entered again upon the country , and began to draw near their place of destination . 
It was a fine , clear , autumn morning , when they came upon the scene of his promotion , and stopped to contemplate its beauties . 
'See here's the church ! cried the delighted schoolmaster in a low voice 'and that old building close beside it , is the school house , I'll be sworn . 
It was for such a spot the child had wearied in the dense , dark , miserable haunts of labour . 
'I must leave you somewhere for a few minutes , said the schoolmaster , at length breaking the silence into which they had fallen in their gladness . 
'I have a letter to present , and inquiries to make , you know . 
Where shall I take you ? To the little inn yonder ? 'Let us wait here , rejoined Nell . 
We will sit in the church porch till you come back . 
'A good place too , said the schoolmaster , leading the way towards it , disencumbering himself of his portmanteau , and placing it on the stone seat . 
Upon these tenements , the attention of the child became exclusively riveted . 
To have been indifferent to the companionship of the single gentleman would have been tantamount to being gifted with nerves of steel . 
Never did chaise inclose , or horses draw , such a restless gentleman as he . 
'Are you comfortable ? the single gentleman would say after one of these exploits , turning sharply round . 
'Quite , Sir , thank you . 
'Are you sure ? An't you cold ? 'It is a little chilly , Sir , Kit's mother would reply . 
'I knew it ! cried the single gentleman , letting down one of the front glasses . 
'She wants some brandy and water ! Of course she does . 
How could I forget it ? Hallo ! Stop at the next inn , and call out for a glass of hot brandy and water . 
It was in vain for Kit's mother to protest that she stood in need of nothing of the kind . 
The single gentleman was inexorable and whenever he had exhausted all other modes and fashions of restlessness , it invariably occurred to him that Kit's mother wanted brandy and water . 
'You're faint , said the single gentleman , who did nothing himself but walk about the room . 
'I see what's the matter with you , ma'am . 
'Thank you , sir , I'm not indeed . 
I drag this poor woman from the bosom of her family at a minute's notice , and she goes on getting fainter and fainter before my eyes . 
I'm a pretty fellow ! How many children have you got , ma'am ? 'Two , sir , besides Kit . 
'Boys , ma'am ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Are they christened ? 'Only half baptised as yet , sir . 
'I'm godfather to both of 'em . 
Remember that , if you please , ma'am . 
You had better have some mulled wine . 
'I couldn't touch a drop indeed , sir . 
'You must , said the single gentleman . 
'I see you want it . 
I ought to have thought of it before . 
'This is the place ! cried her companion , letting down all the glasses . 
They drove up to a door round which a crowd of persons were collected , and there stopped . 
'What's this ? said the single gentleman thrusting out his head . 
'Is anything the matter here ? 'A wedding Sir , a wedding ! cried several voices . 
'The world has gone mad , I think , said the single gentleman , pressing through the concourse with his supposed bride . 
'Stand back here , will you , and let me knock . 
Anything that makes a noise is satisfactory to a crowd . 
Having rendered these voluntary services , the throng modestly retired a little , preferring that the single gentleman should bear their consequences alone . 
'Who has been married here , my friend ? said the single gentleman . 
'You ! and to whom in the devil's name ? 'What right have you to ask ? returned the bridegroom , eyeing him from top to toe . 
'What right ! cried the single gentleman , drawing the arm of Kit's mother more tightly through his own , for that good woman evidently had it in contemplation to run away . 
'A right you little dream of . 
Mind , good people , if this fellow has been marrying a minor tut , tut , that can't be . 
Where is the child you have here , my good fellow . 
'Where is she ! cried this lady . 
, with looks of conflicting apprehension , disappointment , and incredulity . 
'No , not so bad as that . 
'I thank God ! cried the single gentleman feebly . 
They drew back to admit him , and when he had entered , closed the door . 
'You see in me , good people , he said , turning to the newly married couple , 'one to whom life itself is not dearer than the two persons whom I seek . 
They would not know me . 
If you deny them from any mistaken regard or fear for them , judge of my intentions by their recognition of this person as their old humble friend . 
To all this , the single gentleman listened with the air of a man quite borne down by grief and disappointment . 
He shed tears when they spoke of the grandfather , and appeared in deep affliction . 
In the end , the happy couple jolted away in the caravan to spend their honeymoon in a country excursion and the single gentleman and Kit's mother stood ruefully before their carriage door . 
'Where shall we drive you , sir ? said the post boy . 
'Any room will do , said the single gentleman . 
'Let it be near at hand , that's all . 
'Close here , sir , if you please to walk this way . 
'He's quite welcome to it . 
He's as welcome as flowers in May , or coals at Christmas . 
Would you like this room , sir ? Honour me by walking in . 
Do me the favour , pray . 
'Would you do me the honour ? said Quilp . 
'I prefer being alone , replied the single gentleman . 
And with that , he darted in again with one jerk and clapped the little door to , like a figure in a Dutch clock when the hour strikes . 
'Why it was only last night , sir , whispered Kit's mother , 'that I left him in Little Bethel . 
'Indeed ! said her fellow passenger . 
'When did that person come here , waiter ? 'Come down by the night coach , this morning , sir . 
'Humph ! And when is he going ? 'Can't say , sir , really . 
When the chambermaid asked him just now if he should want a bed , sir , he first made faces at her , and then wanted to kiss her . 
'Beg him to walk this way , said the single gentleman . 
'I should be glad to exchange a word with him , tell him . 
He departed on his errand , however , and immediately returned , ushering in its object . 
'Your servant , sir , said the dwarf , 'I encountered your messenger half way . 
I thought you'd allow me to pay my compliments to you . 
I hope you're very well . 
There was a short pause , while the dwarf , with half shut eyes and puckered face , stood waiting for an answer . 
Receiving none , he turned towards his more familiar acquaintance . 
'Christopher's mother ! he cried . 
'Mr Quilp , said the single gentleman . 
The dwarf put his hand to his great flapped ear , and counterfeited the closest attention . 
'We two have met before 'Surely , cried Quilp , nodding his head . 
Such an honour and pleasure it's both , Christopher's mother , it's both is not to be forgotten so soon . 
'We had warrant for what we did , my good sir , rejoined Quilp , 'we had our warrant . 
He went of his own accord vanished in the night , sir . 
'No matter , said the single gentleman angrily . 
'Yes , he was gone , said Quilp , with the same exasperating composure . 
'No doubt he was gone . 
The only question was , where . 
And it's a question still . 
'Why , are you not ? returned his questioner , fretted into a state of the utmost irritation . 
'I might say , if I was inclined to be rude , how do I know but you are dogging MY footsteps . 
Yes , I was at chapel . 
What then ? I've read in books that pilgrims were used to go to chapel before they went on journeys , to put up petitions for their safe return . 
Wise men ! journeys are very perilous especially outside the coach . 
Wheels come off , horses take fright , coachmen drive too fast , coaches overturn . 
I always go to chapel before I start on journeys . 
It's the last thing I do on such occasions , indeed . 
'If I was , I should tell my own fortune and make it . 
'Ah ! we have said all we need say , I see , returned the other , throwing himself impatiently upon a sofa . 
'Pray leave us , if you please . 
Christopher's mother , my good soul , farewell . 
A pleasant journey back , sir . 
'Oho ! he said when he had regained his own room , and sat himself down in a chair with his arms akimbo . 
First , he reviewed the circumstances which had led to his repairing to that spot , which were briefly these . 
Watchful as a lynx , one glance showed the dwarf that he had come on business . 
'You are there , are you , my friend ? he repeated , greedily biting his nails . 
'I am suspected and thrown aside , and Kit's the confidential agent , is he ? I shall have to dispose of him , I fear . 
If we had come up with them this morning , he continued , after a thoughtful pause , 'I was ready to prove a pretty good claim . 
I could have made my profit . 
At the worst , it's a golden opportunity , not to be lost . 
But all was in vain . 
Not the slightest trace or clue could be obtained . 
'How are you , Christopher ? croaked the dwarf from the coach top . 
'Why , how did he come here , mother ? whispered Kit . 
'He has ? cried Kit . 
'You wouldn't believe it , that you wouldn't , replied his mother , 'but don't say a word to him , for I really don't believe he's human . 
Mr Quilp was serenely gazing at the stars , quite absorbed in celestial contemplation . 
'Oh , he's the artfullest creetur ! cried Mrs Nubbles . 
Don't speak to him for the world . 
'Yes I will , mother . 
I say , sir Mr Quilp affected to start , and looked smilingly round . 
'You let my mother alone , will you ? said Kit . 
'How dare you tease a poor lone woman like her , making her miserable and melancholy as if she hadn't got enough to make her so , without you . 
An't you ashamed of yourself , you little monster ? 'Monster ! said Quilp inwardly , with a smile . 
You have no right to do it I'm sure we never interfered with you . 
'Ha ! cried the jealous dwarf , 'What's this ! Do they entertain visitors while I'm away ! A smothered cough from above , was the reply . 
He felt in his pockets for his latch key , but had forgotten it . 
There was no resource but to knock at the door . 
'A light in the passage , said Quilp , peeping through the keyhole . 
'A very soft knock and , by your leave , my lady , I may yet steal upon you unawares . 
Soho ! A very low and gentle rap received no answer from within . 
'You'll throttle me , master , whispered the boy . 
'Let go , will you . 
'Who's up stairs , you dog ? retorted Quilp in the same tone . 
And don't speak above your breath , or I'll choke you in good earnest . 
'Will you answer me ? said Quilp . 
'What's going on , above ? 'You won't let one speak , replied the boy . 
'They ha , ha , ha ! they think you're you're dead . 
Ha ha ha ! 'Dead ! cried Quilp , relaxing into a grim laugh himself . 
Do they ? Do they really , you dog ? 'They think you're you're drowned , replied the boy , who in his malicious nature had a strong infusion of his master . 
'You was last seen on the brink of the wharf , and they think you tumbled over . 
'Not a word , said Quilp , making towards the door on tiptoe . 
'Not a sound , not so much as a creaking board , or a stumble against a cobweb . 
, enabled him not only to hear , but to see distinctly , what was passing . 
'If I could poison that dear old lady's rum and water , murmured Quilp , 'I'd die happy . 
'I can almost fancy , said the lawyer shaking his head , 'that I see his eye glistening down at the very bottom of my liquor . 
To think that I should be drinking his very rum ! It seems like a dream . 
'The search has been quite unsuccessful then ? 'Quite , master . 
'Then we have nothing for it but resignation , said Mr Brass 'nothing but resignation and expectation . 
It would be a comfort to have his body it would be a dreary comfort . 
'Oh , beyond a doubt , assented Mrs Jiniwin hastily 'if we once had that , we should be quite sure . 
'With regard to the descriptive advertisement , said Sampson Brass , taking up his pen . 
'It is a melancholy pleasure to recall his traits . 
Respecting his legs now ? 'Crooked , certainly , said Mrs Jiniwin . 
'Do you think they WERE crooked ? said Brass , in an insinuating tone . 
'I think I see them now coming up the street very wide apart , in nankeen' pantaloons a little shrunk and without straps . 
Ah ! what a vale of tears we live in . 
Do we say crooked ? 'I think they were a little so , observed Mrs Quilp with a sob . 
'Legs crooked , said Brass , writing as he spoke . 
'Large head , short body , legs crooked Very crooked , suggested Mrs Jiniwin . 
'We'll not say very crooked , ma'am , said Brass piously . 
'Let us not bear hard upon the weaknesses of the deceased . 
He is gone , ma'am , to where his legs will never come in question . 
We will content ourselves with crooked , Mrs Jiniwin . 
'I thought you wanted the truth , said the old lady . 
'Bless your eyes , how I love you , muttered Quilp . 
'True , ma'am , true , cried Mr Brass . 
'Our faculties must not freeze with grief . 
I'll trouble you for a little more of that , ma'am . 
A question now arises , with relation to his nose . 
'Flat , said Mrs Jiniwin . 
'Aquiline ! cried Quilp , thrusting in his head , and striking the feature with his fist . 
Do you see it ? Do you call this flat ? Do you ? Eh ? 'Oh capital , capital ! shouted Brass , from the mere force of habit . 
'Not yet , Sampson , said Quilp . 
'Not just yet ! 'Oh very good indeed ! cried Brass , recovering his spirits a little . 
'Ha ha ha ! Oh exceedingly good ! There's not another man alive who could carry it off like that . 
A most difficult position to carry off . 
But he has such a flow of good humour , such an amazing flow ! 'Good night , said the dwarf , nodding expressively . 
'Good night , sir , good night , cried the lawyer , retreating backwards towards the door . 
'This is a joyful occasion indeed , extremely joyful . 
, Quilp advanced towards the two men , who yet lingered in a kind of stupid amazement . 
'Have you been dragging the river all day , gentlemen ? said the dwarf , holding the door open with great politeness . 
'And yesterday too , master . 
'Dear me , you've had a deal of trouble . 
Pray consider everything yours that you find upon the upon the body . 
Good night ! The men looked at each other , but had evidently no inclination to argue the point just then , and shuffled out of the room . 
The speedy clearance effected , Quilp locked the doors and still embracing the case bottle with shrugged up shoulders and folded arms , stood looking at his insensible wife like a dismounted nightmare . 
CHAPTER Matrimonial differences are usually discussed by the parties concerned in the form of dialogue , in which the lady bears at least her full half share . 
'So you thought I was dead and gone , did you ? said Quilp . 
'You thought you were a widow , eh ? Ha , ha , ha , you jade . 
'Indeed , Quilp , returned his wife . 
'I'm very sorry 'Who doubts it ! cried the dwarf . 
'You very sorry ! to be sure you are . 
I am glad to see you , Quilp indeed I am . 
'How could you go away so long , without saying a word to me or letting me hear of you or know anything about you ? asked the poor little woman , sobbing . 
'How could you be so cruel , Quilp ? 'How could I be so cruel ! cruel ! cried the dwarf . 
'Because I was in the humour . 
I'm in the humour now . 
I shall be cruel when I like . 
'Not again ! 'Yes , again . 
I mean to go and live wherever the fancy seizes me at the wharf at the counting house and be a jolly bachelor . 
You were a widow in anticipation . 
Damme , screamed the dwarf , 'I'll be a bachelor in earnest . 
'You can't be serious , Quilp , sobbed his wife . 
And mind too that I don't pounce in upon you at unseasonable hours again , for I'll be a spy upon you , and come and go like a mole or a weazel . 
Tom Scott where's Tom Scott ? 'Here I am , master , cried the voice of the boy , as Quilp threw up the window . 
'Wait there , you dog , returned the dwarf , 'to carry a bachelor's portmanteau . 
Pack it up , Mrs Quilp . 
Knock up the dear old lady to help knock her up . 
still tightly clasped under his arm . 
'Snug ! said Quilp , when he had groped his way to the wooden counting house , and opened the door with a key he carried about with him . 
'Beautifully snug ! Call me at eight , you dog . 
, bestirred himself to improve his retreat , and render it more commodious and comfortable . 
Nobody near me here , but rats , and they are fine stealthy secret fellows . 
I shall be as merry as a grig among these gentry . 
'How's the cream of clerkship , eh ? 'Why , rather sour , sir , replied Mr Swiveller . 
'Beginning to border upon cheesiness , in fact . 
'What's the matter ? said the dwarf , advancing . 
Of all the girls that are so smart , there's none like eh , Dick ! 'Certainly not , replied Mr Swiveller , eating his dinner with great gravity , 'none like her . 
She's the sphynx of private life , is Sally B. 'You're out of spirits , said Quilp , drawing up a chair . 
'What's the matter ? 'The law don't agree with me , returned Dick . 
'It isn't moist enough , and there's too much confinement . 
I have been thinking of running away . 
'Bah ! said the dwarf . 
'Where would you run to , Dick ? 'I don't know' returned Mr Swiveller . 
'Towards Highgate , I suppose . 
Perhaps the bells might strike up Turn again Swiveller , Lord Mayor of London . 
I wish cats were scarcer . 
'Perhaps you'd like a bit of cake' said Dick , at last turning to the dwarf . 
'You're quite welcome to it . 
You ought to be , for it's of your making . 
'What do you mean ? said Quilp . 
'What should you say this was ? demanded Mr Swiveller . 
'It looks like bride cake , replied the dwarf , grinning . 
'And whose should you say it was ? inquired Mr Swiveller , rubbing the pastry against his nose with a dreadful calmness . 
'Whose ? 'Not 'Yes , said Dick , 'the same . 
You needn't mention her name . 
There's no such name now . 
Her name is Cheggs now , Sophy Cheggs . 
Yet loved I as man never loved that hadn't wooden legs , and my heart , my heart is breaking for the love of Sophy Cheggs . 
'Now , I hope you're satisfied , sir , said Dick 'and I hope Fred's satisfied . 
You went partners in the mischief , and I hope you like it . 
But it's Destiny , and mine's a crusher . 
, which he put about with great alacrity , calling upon Mr Swiveller to pledge him in various toasts derisive of Cheggs , and eulogistic of the happiness of single men . 
'It will be our turn to giggle soon . 
'That's unfortunate , said the dwarf , 'for I came , in fact , to ask you about him . 
A thought has occurred to me , Dick your friend over the way 'Which friend ? 'In the first floor . 
'Yes ? 'Your friend in the first floor , Dick , may know him . 
'No , he don't , said Mr Swiveller , shaking his head . 
'Have been ! cried the dwarf , looking suspiciously at his companion . 
'Through whose means ? 'Through mine , said Dick , slightly confused . 
'Didn't I mention it to you the last time you called over yonder ? 'You know you didn't , returned the dwarf . 
'I believe you're right , said Dick . 
I didn't , I recollect . 
Oh yes , I brought 'em together that very day . 
'That's strange , said the dwarf , musing . 
'So we remarked to each other at the time , returned Dick coolly , 'but quite true . 
Quilp was plainly staggered by this intelligence , over which he brooded for some time in moody silence , often raising his eyes to Mr Swiveller's face , and sharply scanning its expression . 
'Have been brought together , eh ? said the dwarf as he walked the streets alone . 
'My friend has stolen a march upon me . 
It led him to nothing , and therefore is no great matter , save in the intention . 
I'm glad he has lost his mistress . 
Ha ha ! The blockhead mustn't leave the law at present . 
You're useful to me , Dick , and cost nothing but a little treating now and then . 
Thus he amused himself until nearly midnight , when he turned into his hammock with the utmost satisfaction . 
'How you frightened me ! 'I meant to , you jade , returned the dwarf . 
'Out of your anxiety , grinned the dwarf . 
'Yes , I know that out of your anxiety for my death . 
I shall come home when I please , I tell you . 
I shall come home when I please , and go when I please . 
Will you begone ? Mrs Quilp durst only make a gesture of entreaty . 
'I tell you no , cried the dwarf . 
Will you begone ? 'Do forgive me . 
Do come back , said his wife , earnestly . 
'No o o o o ! roared Quilp . 
'Not till my own good time , and then I'll return again as often as I choose , and be accountable to nobody for my goings or comings . 
You see the door there . 
This duty performed , and his repast ended , he again betook himself to Bevis Marks . 
This visit was not intended for Mr Swiveller , but for his friend and employer Mr Sampson Brass . 
Both gentlemen however were from home , nor was the life and light of law , Miss Sally , at her post either . 
'There's a servant , I suppose , said the dwarf , knocking at the house door . 
he encountered the gaze of the small servant . 
He looked at her , long and earnestly . 
'How are you ? said the dwarf , moistening a wafer with horrible grimaces . 
'Do they use you ill here ? is your mistress a Tartar ? said Quilp with a chuckle . 
In reply to the last interrogation , the small servant , with a look of infinite cunning mingled with fear , screwed up her mouth very tight and round , and nodded violently . 
'Where do you come from ? he said after a long pause , stroking his chin . 
'What's your name ? 'Nothing . 
'What does your mistress call you when she wants you ? 'A little devil , said the child . 
The result of this secret survey was , that he shaded his face with his hands , and laughed slyly and noiselessly , until every vein in it was swollen almost to bursting . 
Pulling his hat over his brow to conceal his mirth and its effects , he tossed the letter to the child , and hastily withdrew . 
'You're fond of the beauties of nature , said Quilp with a grin . 
'Is this charming , Brass ? Is it unusual , unsophisticated , primitive ? 'It's delightful indeed , sir , replied the lawyer . 
'N not particularly so , I think , sir , rejoined Brass , with his teeth chattering in his head . 
'Perhaps a little damp and ague ish ? said Quilp . 
'Just damp enough to be cheerful , sir , rejoined Brass . 
'Nothing more , sir , nothing more . 
'And Sally ? said the delighted dwarf . 
'Does she like it ? 'She'll like it better , returned that strong minded lady , 'when she has tea so let us have it , and don't bother . 
'Sweet Sally ! cried Quilp , extending his arms as if about to embrace her . 
'Gentle , charming , overwhelming Sally . 
'He's a very remarkable man indeed ! soliloquised Mr Brass . 
Though the wet came stealing through the roof and trickling down upon their heads , Miss Brass uttered no complaint , but presided over the tea equipage with imperturbable composure . 
'A word , said the dwarf , 'before we go farther . 
Sally , hark'ee for a minute . 
Miss Sally drew closer , as if accustomed to business conferences with their host which were the better for not having air . 
'Business , said the dwarf , glancing from brother to sister . 
Lay your heads together when you're by yourselves . 
'Certainly , sir , returned Brass , taking out his pocket book and pencil . 
'I'll take down the heads if you please , sir . 
Remarkable documents , added the lawyer , raising his eyes to the ceiling , 'most remarkable documents . 
He states his points so clearly that it's a treat to have 'em ! I don't know any act of parliament that's equal to him in clearness . 
'I shall deprive you of a treat , said Quilp . 
We don't want any documents . 
There's a lad named Kit Miss Sally nodded , implying that she knew of him . 
'Kit ! said Mr Sampson . 
'He's extremely pleasant ! cried the obsequious Sampson . 
'His acquaintance with Natural History too is surprising . 
'Don't let's have any wrangling , said Miss Sally , staying his hand . 
'I've showed you that I know him , and that's enough . 
'She's always foremost ! said the dwarf , patting her on the back and looking contemptuously at Sampson . 
'I don't like Kit , Sally . 
'Nor I , rejoined Miss Brass . 
'Nor I , said Sampson . 
'Why , that's right ! cried Quilp . 
'Half our work is done already . 
'Fearfully eloquent ! cried Brass with a sneeze . 
'Quite appalling ! 'Come to the point , said Miss Sally , 'and don't talk so much . 
In short , I owe him a grudge . 
'That's enough , sir , said Sampson . 
Apart from that , I repeat that he crosses my humour , and I hate him . 
Now , you know the lad , and can guess the rest . 
Devise your own means of putting him out of my way , and execute them . 
Shall it be done ? 'It shall , sir , said Sampson . 
'Then give me your hand , retorted Quilp . 
'Sally , girl , yours . 
I rely as much , or more , on you than him . 
The trio were well accustomed to act together , and were linked to each other by ties of mutual interest and advantage , and nothing more was needed . 
He was quite breathless with pleasure and haste when he reached the porch , and at first could only point towards the old building which the child had been contemplating so earnestly . 
'You see those two old houses , he said at last . 
'Yes , surely , replied Nell . 
'I have been looking at them nearly all the time you have been away . 
'And you would have looked at them more curiously yet , if you could have guessed what I have to tell you , said her friend . 
'One of those houses is mine . 
They stopped before its low arched door . 
After trying several of the keys in vain , the schoolmaster found one to fit the huge lock , which turned back , creaking , and admitted them into the house . 
An open door leading to a small room or cell , dim with the light that came through leaves of ivy , completed the interior of this portion of the ruin . 
It was not quite destitute of furniture . 
The child looked around her , with that solemn feeling with which we contemplate the work of ages that have become but drops of water in the great ocean of eternity . 
'It is a very beautiful place ! said the child , in a low voice . 
'I almost feared you thought otherwise , returned the schoolmaster . 
'You shivered when we first came in , as if you felt it cold or gloomy . 
'It was not that , said Nell , glancing round with a slight shudder . 
'Indeed I cannot tell you what it was , but when I saw the outside , from the church porch , the same feeling came over me . 
It is its being so old and grey perhaps . 
'A peaceful place to live in , don't you think so ) said her friend . 
'Oh yes , rejoined the child , clasping her hands earnestly . 
'A place to live , and learn to live , and gather health of mind and body in , said the schoolmaster 'for this old house is yours . 
'Ours ! cried the child . 
'Ay , returned the schoolmaster gaily , 'for many a merry year to come , I hope . 
I shall be a close neighbour only next door but this house is yours . 
'There's a small allowance of money , said the schoolmaster . 
'It is not much , but still enough to live upon in this retired spot . 
By clubbing our funds together , we shall do bravely no fear of that . 
'Heaven bless and prosper you ! sobbed the child . 
'Amen , my dear , returned her friend cheerfully 'and all of us , as it will , and has , in leading us through sorrow and trouble to this tranquil life . 
But we must look at MY house now . 
Come ! They repaired to the other tenement tried the rusty keys as before at length found the right one and opened the worm eaten door . 
It led into a chamber , vaulted and old , like that from which they had come , but not so spacious , and having only one other little room attached . 
Like the adjoining habitation , it held such old articles of furniture as were absolutely necessary , and had its stack of fire wood . 
To make these dwellings as habitable and full of comfort as they could , was now their pleasant care . 
In a short time , each had its cheerful fire glowing and crackling on the hearth , and reddening the pale old wall with a hale and healthy blush . 
The old man , sometimes by his side and sometimes with the child , lent his aid to both , went here and there on little patient services , and was happy . 
Neighbours , too , as they came from work , proffered their help or sent their children with such small presents or loans as the strangers needed most . 
It was a busy day and night came on , and found them wondering that there was yet so much to do , and that it should be dark so soon . 
Before they separated , the schoolmaster read some prayers aloud and then , full of gratitude and happiness , they parted for the night . 
A change had been gradually stealing over her , in the time of her loneliness and sorrow . 
Some of those dreamless sleepers lay close within the shadow of the church touching the wall , as if they clung to it for comfort and protection . 
Others had chosen to lie beneath the changing shade of trees others by the path , that footsteps might come near them others , among the graves of little children . 
Perhaps not one of the imprisoned souls had been able quite to separate itself in living thought from its old companion . 
It was long before the child closed the window , and approached her bed . 
Again something of the same sensation as before an involuntary chill a momentary feeling akin to fear but vanishing directly , and leaving no alarm behind . 
It was a sweet and happy dream . 
The quiet spot , outside , seemed to remain the same , saving that there was music in the air , and a sound of angels' wings . 
After a time the sisters came there , hand in hand , and stood among the graves . 
And then the dream grew dim , and faded . 
With the brightness and joy of morning , came the renewal of yesterday's labours , the revival of its pleasant thoughts , the restoration of its energies , cheerfulness , and hope . 
They worked gaily in ordering and arranging their houses until noon , and then went to visit the clergyman . 
His wife had died in the house in which he still lived , and he had long since lost sight of any earthly cares or hopes beyond it . 
The schoolmaster had already told her story . 
They had no other friends or home to leave , he said , and had come to share his fortunes . 
He loved the child as though she were his own . 
'Well , well , said the clergyman . 
'Let it be as you desire . 
'Old in adversity and trial , sir , replied the schoolmaster . 
Let her rest , and forget them , said the old gentleman . 
'But an old church is a dull and gloomy place for one so young as you , my child . 
'Oh no , sir , returned Nell . 
'I have no such thoughts , indeed . 
You must look to this , and see that her heart does not grow heavy among these solemn ruins . 
Your request is granted , friend . 
After more kind words , they withdrew , and repaired to the child's house where they were yet in conversation on their happy fortune , when another friend appeared . 
ever since the death of the clergyman's wife , which had happened fifteen years before . 
None of the simple villagers had cared to ask his name , or , when they knew it , to store it in their memory . 
The name pleased him , or suited him as well as any other , and the Bachelor he had ever since remained . 
And the bachelor it was , it may be added , who with his own hands had laid in the stock of fuel which the wanderers had found in their new habitation . 
'You are Mr Marton , the new schoolmaster ? he said , greeting Nell's kind friend . 
'You come well recommended , and I am glad to see you . 
This is our young church keeper ? You are not the less welcome , friend , for her sake , or for this old man's nor the worse teacher for having learnt humanity . 
'She has been ill , sir , very lately , said the schoolmaster , in answer to the look with which their visitor regarded Nell when he had kissed her cheek . 
I know she has , he rejoined . 
'There have been suffering and heartache here . 
'Indeed there have , sir . 
The little old gentleman glanced at the grandfather , and back again at the child , whose hand he took tenderly in his , and held . 
'You will be happier here , he said 'we will try , at least , to make you so . 
You have made great improvements here already . 
Are they the work of your hands ? 'Yes , sir . 
'We may make some others not better in themselves , but with better means perhaps , said the bachelor . 
'Let us see now , let us see . 
When nothing more was left to be done , he charged the boy to run off and bring his schoolmates to be marshalled before their new master , and solemnly reviewed . 
That wouldn't do , at all . 
It's beautiful ! John Owen having been thus rebuked , and being in perfect possession of the speech aside , the bachelor singled out another boy . 
'Now , look at that lad , sir , said the bachelor . 
'You see that fellow ? Richard Evans his name is , sir . 
This hopeful pupil edified by the above terrible reproval , the bachelor turned to another . 
This is the lad , sir this one with the blue eyes and light hair . 
The sky was serene and bright , the air clear , perfumed with the fresh scent of newly fallen leaves , and grateful to every sense . 
The neighbouring stream sparkled , and rolled onward with a tuneful sound the dew glistened on the green mounds , like tears shed by Good Spirits over the dead . 
Some young children sported among the tombs , and hid from each other , with laughing faces . 
They had an infant with them , and had laid it down asleep upon a child's grave , in a little bed of leaves . 
She drew near and asked one of them whose grave it was . 
The child answered that that was not its name it was a garden his brother's . 
It was greener , he said , than all the other gardens , and the birds loved it better because he had been used to feed them . 
When he had done speaking , he looked at her with a smile , and kneeling down and nestling for a moment with his cheek against the turf , bounded merrily away . 
She passed the church , gazing upward at its old tower , went through the wicket gate , and so into the village . 
The old sexton , leaning on a crutch , was taking the air at his cottage door , and gave her good morrow . 
'You are better ? said the child , stopping to speak with him . 
'Ay surely , returned the old man . 
'I'm thankful to say , much better . 
'YOU will be quite well soon . 
'With Heaven's leave , and a little patience . 
'It is but one room you see . 
There is another up above , but the stair has got harder to climb o' late years , and I never use it . 
I'm thinking of taking to it again , next summer , though . 
The child wondered how a grey headed man like him one of his trade too could talk of time so easily . 
He saw her eyes wandering to the tools that hung upon the wall , and smiled . 
'I warrant now , he said , 'that you think all those are used in making graves . 
'Indeed , I wondered that you wanted so many . 
I dig the ground , and plant things that are to live and grow . 
My works don't all moulder away , and rot in the earth . 
You see that spade in the centre ? 'The very old one so notched and worn ? Yes . 
'That's the sexton's spade , and it's a well used one , as you see . 
We're healthy people here , but it has done a power of work . 
That's nothing new , he added hastily . 
'There are flowers and shrubs to speak to your other work , said the child . 
But they are not so separate from the sexton's labours as you think . 
'No ! 'Not in my mind , and recollection such as it is , said the old man . 
'Indeed they often help it . 
For say that I planted such a tree for such a man . 
There it stands , to remind me that he died . 
'But it may remind you of one who is still alive , said the child . 
So it happens that the sexton's spade gets worn and battered . 
I shall need a new one next summer . 
The child looked quickly towards him , thinking that he jested with his age and infirmity but the unconscious sexton was quite in earnest . 
'Ah ! he said , after a brief silence . 
It's only we who turn up the ground , where nothing grows and everything decays , who think of such things as these who think of them properly , I mean . 
You have been into the church ? 'I am going there now , the child replied . 
'There's an old well there , said the sexton , 'right underneath the belfry a deep , dark , echoing well . 
In ten years' time , the water fell again , and a third knot was made . 
'A dreadful place to come on in the dark ! exclaimed the child , who had followed the old man's looks and words until she seemed to stand upon its brink . 
'What is it but a grave ! said the sexton . 
'I shall be seventy nine next summer . 
'You still work when you are well ? 'Work ! To be sure . 
You shall see my gardens hereabout . 
Look at the window there . 
I made , and have kept , that plot of ground entirely with my own hands . 
By this time next year I shall hardly see the sky , the boughs will have grown so thick . 
I have my winter work at night besides . 
He opened , as he spoke , a cupboard close to where he sat , and produced some miniature boxes , carved in a homely manner and made of old wood . 
'Some gentlefolks who are fond of ancient days , and what belongs to them , he said , 'like to buy these keepsakes from our church and ruins . 
Sometimes , I make them of scraps of oak , that turn up here and there sometimes of bits of coffins which the vaults have long preserved . 
I haven't many by me at this time of year , but these shelves will be full next summer . 
Full of these meditations , she reached the church . 
It was easy to find the key belonging to the outer door , for each was labelled on a scrap of yellow parchment . 
Its very turning in the lock awoke a hollow sound , and when she entered with a faltering step , the echoes that it raised in closing , made her start . 
Some of these knights had their own weapons , helmets , coats of mail , hanging upon the walls hard by , and dangling from rusty hooks . 
Broken and dilapidated as they were , they yet retained their ancient form , and something of their ancient aspect . 
What if the spot awakened thoughts of death ! Die who would , it would still remain the same these sights and sounds would still go on , as happily as ever . 
It would be no pain to sleep amidst them . 
At length she gained the end of the ascent and stood upon the turret top . 
The children were gone , when she emerged into the porch , and locked the door . 
As she passed the school house she could hear the busy hum of voices . 
Her friend had begun his labours only on that day . 
The noise grew louder , and , looking back , she saw the boys come trooping out and disperse themselves with merry shouts and play . 
'It's a good thing , thought the child , 'I am very glad they pass the church . 
And then she stopped , to fancy how the noise would sound inside , and how gently it would seem to die away upon the ear . 
They found her there , at last , and took her home . 
CHAPTER The bachelor , among his various occupations , found in the old church a constant source of interest and amusement . 
deny the glory of Queen Bess , and assert the immeasurably greater glory of the meanest woman in her realm , who had a merciful and tender heart . 
In a word , he would have had every stone , and plate of brass , the monument only of deeds whose memory should survive . 
All others he was willing to forget . 
They might be buried in consecrated ground , but he would have had them buried deep , and never brought to light again . 
It was from the lips of such a tutor , that the child learnt her easy task . 
It was another world , where sin and sorrow never came a tranquil place of rest , where nothing evil entered . 
The old sexton soon got better , and was about again . 
From him the child learnt many other things , though of a different kind . 
He was not able to work , but one day there was a grave to be made , and he came to overlook the man who dug it . 
Now , the man who did the sexton's duty was a little older than he , though much more active . 
'I'm sorry to see there is this to do , said the child when she approached . 
'I heard of no one having died . 
'She lived in another hamlet , my dear , returned the sexton . 
'Was she young ? 'Ye yes' said the sexton not more than sixty four , I think . 
David , was she more than sixty four ? David , who was digging hard , heard nothing of the question . 
'What's the matter now ? said David , looking up . 
'How old was Becky Morgan ? asked the sexton . 
'Becky Morgan ? repeated David . 
'Let me think' quoth he . 
'I saw last night what they had put upon the coffin was it seventy nine ? 'No , no , said the sexton . 
'Ah yes , it was though , returned the old man with a sigh . 
'For I remember thinking she was very near our age . 
Yes , it was seventy nine . 
'Are you sure you didn't mistake a figure , Davy ? asked the sexton , with signs of some emotion . 
'What ? said the old man . 
He's very deaf indeed , cried the sexton petulantly 'are you sure you're right about the figures ? 'Oh quite , replied the old man . 
'Why not ? 'He's exceedingly deaf , muttered the sexton to himself . 
'I think he's getting foolish . 
As the sexton said nothing more just then , however , she forgot it for the time , and spoke again . 
'You were telling me , she said , 'about your gardening . 
I thought they were of your rearing , though indeed they grow but poorly . 
'They grow as Heaven wills , said the old man 'and it kindly ordains that they shall never flourish here . 
'I do not understand you . 
'Why , this it is , said the sexton . 
'They mark the graves of those who had very tender , loving friends . 
'I was sure they did ! the child exclaimed . 
'I am very glad to know they do ! 'Aye , returned the old man , 'but stay . 
See how they hang their heads , and droop , and wither . 
Do you guess the reason ? 'No , the child replied . 
'Because the memory of those who lie below , passes away so soon . 
Such tokens seldom flourish long . 
I have known the briefest summer flowers outlive them . 
'I grieve to hear it , said the child . 
'Ah ! so say the gentlefolks who come down here to look about them , returned the old man , shaking his head , 'but I say otherwise . 
I crave their pardon and tell them that , as I take it , 'tis a good sign for the happiness of the living . 
'Perhaps so , replied the old man doubtfully . 
'Whether it be as I believe it is , or no , thought the child within herself , 'I'll make this place my garden . 
It will be no harm at least to work here day by day , and pleasant thoughts will come of it , I am sure . 
Her glowing cheek and moistened eye passed unnoticed by the sexton , who turned towards old David , and called him by his name . 
It was plain that Becky Morgan's age still troubled him though why , the child could scarcely understand . 
The second or third repetition of his name attracted the old man's attention . 
Pausing from his work , he leant on his spade , and put his hand to his dull ear . 
'Did you call ? he said . 
'I have been thinking , Davy , replied the sexton , 'that she , he pointed to the grave , 'must have been a deal older than you or me . 
'Seventy nine , answered the old man with a shake of the head , 'I tell you that I saw it . 
'Saw it ? replied the sexton 'aye , but , Davy , women don't always tell the truth about their age . 
'That's true indeed , said the other old man , with a sudden sparkle in his eye . 
'She might have been older . 
'I'm sure she must have been . 
Why , only think how old she looked . 
You and I seemed but boys to her . 
'She did look old , rejoined David . 
'Call to mind how old she looked for many a long , long year , and say if she could be but seventy nine at last only our age , said the sexton . 
'Five year older at the very least ! cried the other . 
'Five ! retorted the sexton . 
I call to mind the time her daughter died . 
She was eighty nine if she was a day , and tries to pass upon us now , for ten year younger . 
When they had settled this question to their mutual satisfaction , the sexton , with his friend's assistance , rose to go . 
'It's chilly , sitting here , and I must be careful till the summer , he said , as he prepared to limp away . 
'What ? asked old David . 
'He's very deaf , poor fellow ! cried the sexton . 
'Good bye ! 'Ah ! said old David , looking after him . 
At length she turned away , and walking thoughtfully through the churchyard , came unexpectedly upon the schoolmaster , who was sitting on a green grave in the sun , reading . 
'Nell here ? he said cheerfully , as he closed his book . 
'It does me good to see you in the air and light . 
I feared you were again in the church , where you so often are . 
'Feared ! replied the child , sitting down beside him . 
'Is it not a good place ? 'Yes , yes , said the schoolmaster . 
'But you must be gay sometimes nay , don't shake your head and smile so sadly . 
'Not sadly , if you knew my heart . 
Do not look at me as if you thought me sorrowful . 
There is not a happier creature on earth , than I am now . 
Full of grateful tenderness , the child took his hand , and folded it between her own . 
'It's God's will ! she said , when they had been silent for some time . 
'What ? 'All this , she rejoined 'all this about us . 
But which of us is sad now ? You see that I am smiling . 
'And so am I , said the schoolmaster 'smiling to think how often we shall laugh in this same place . 
Were you not talking yonder ? 'Yes , 'the child rejoined . 
'Of something that has made you sorrowful ? There was a long pause . 
'What was it ? said the schoolmaster , tenderly . 
Tell me what it was . 
'I rather grieve I do rather grieve to think , said the child , bursting into tears , 'that those who die about us , are so soon forgotten . 
'Tell me no more , said the child quickly . 
I feel , I know it . 
Let us hold to that faith , or none . 
There is not an angel added to the Host of Heaven but does its blessed work on earth in those that loved it here . 
They were yet seated in the same place , when the grandfather approached . 
Before they had spoken many words together , the church clock struck the hour of school , and their friend withdrew . 
'A good man , said the grandfather , looking after him 'a kind man . 
Surely he will never harm us , Nell . 
We are safe here , at last , eh ? We will never go away from here ? The child shook her head and smiled . 
'She needs rest , said the old man , patting her cheek 'too pale too pale . 
She is not like what she was . 
When ? asked the child . 
'Ha ! said the old man , 'to be sure when ? How many weeks ago ? Could I count them on my fingers ? Let them rest though they're better gone . 
'Much better , dear , replied the child . 
'We will forget them or , if we ever call them to mind , it shall be only as some uneasy dream that has passed away . 
'Hush ! said the old man , motioning hastily to her with his hand and looking over his shoulder 'no more talk of the dream , and all the miseries it brought . 
There are no dreams here . 
'Tis a quiet place , and they keep away . 
Let us never think about them , lest they should pursue us again . 
Sunken eyes and hollow cheeks wet , cold , and famine and horrors before them all , that were even worse we must forget such things if we would be tranquil here . 
But do not hide from me do not steal away alone let me keep beside you . 
Indeed , I will be very true and faithful , Nell . 
'I steal away alone ! why that , replied the child , with assumed gaiety , 'would be a pleasant jest indeed . 
'It is a brave thought ! cried her grandfather . 
'A kind office , said the little gentleman , nodding to Nell as she curtseyed to him . 
'Have you done all that , this morning ? 'It is very little , sir , returned the child , with downcast eyes , 'to what we mean to do . 
'Good work , good work , said the bachelor . 
It was a slight incident , and might have been design or accident , or the child's unconscious sympathy with youth . 
But it seemed to strike upon her grandfather , though he had not noticed it before . 
He looked in hurried manner at the graves , then anxiously at the child , then pressed her to his side , and bade her stop to rest . 
Something he had long forgotten , appeared to struggle faintly in his mind . 
It did not pass away , as weightier things had done but came uppermost again , and yet again , and many times that day , and often afterwards . 
CHAPTER From that time , there sprung up in the old man's mind , a solicitude about the child which never slept or left him . 
Sometimes weeks had crept on , then the child , exhausted , though with little fatigue , would pass whole evenings on a couch beside the fire . 
But these were rare occasions , happily for the child yearned to be out of doors , and walking in her solemn garden . 
The very schoolboys , light hearted and thoughtless as they were , even they cared for her . 
Some feeling was abroad which raised the child above them all . 
So , when Sunday came . 
There , as elsewhere , they had an interest in Nell . 
None of them , young or old , thought of passing the child without a friendly word . 
Many who came from three or four miles distant , brought her little presents the humblest and rudest had good wishes to bestow . 
She had sought out the young children whom she first saw playing in the churchyard . 
It was his delight to help her , or to fancy that he did so , and they soon became close companions . 
'What now ? said Nell , soothing him . 
'What is the matter ? 'She is not one yet ! cried the boy , embracing her still more closely . 
She looked at him wonderingly , and putting his hair back from his face , and kissing him , asked what he meant . 
'You must not be one , dear Nell , cried the boy . 
They never come to play with us , or talk to us . 
'I do not understand you , said the child . 
'Tell me what you mean . 
'Why , they say , replied the boy , looking up into her face , that you will be an Angel , before the birds sing again . 
But you won't be , will you ? Don't leave us Nell , though the sky is bright . 
Do not leave us ! The child dropped her head , and put her hands before her face . 
'She cannot bear the thought ! cried the boy , exulting through his tears . 
You know how sorry we should be . 
Dear Nell , tell me that you'll stay amongst us . 
Oh ! Pray , pray , tell me that you will . 
The little creature folded his hands , and knelt down at her feet . 
'Only look at me , Nell , said the boy , 'and tell me that you'll stop , and then I shall know that they are wrong , and will cry no more . 
Won't you say yes , Nell ? Still the drooping head and hidden face , and the child quite silent save for her sobs . 
Yet the child could make him no answer , and sobbed as though her heart were bursting . 
'Why would you go , dear Nell ? I know you would not be happy when you heard that we were crying for your loss . 
But if you do go , Nell , said the boy , caressing her , and pressing his face to hers , 'be fond of him for my sake . 
'And a good little friend he is , too , said the old sexton to her once . 
'When his elder brother died elder seems a strange word , for he was only seven years old I remember this one took it sorely to heart . 
The child thought of what the schoolmaster had told her , and felt how its truth was shadowed out even in this infant . 
'It has given him something of a quiet way , I think , said the old man , 'though for that he is merry enough at times . 
I'd wager now that you and he have been listening by the old well . 
'Indeed we have not , the child replied . 
'I have been afraid to go near it for I am not often down in that part of the church , and do not know the ground . 
'Come down with me , said the old man . 
'I have known it from a boy . 
Come ! They descended the narrow steps which led into the crypt , and paused among the gloomy arches , in a dim and murky spot . 
'This is the place , said the old man . 
'Give me your hand while you throw back the cover , lest you should stumble and fall in . 
I am too old I mean rheumatic to stoop , myself . 
'A black and dreadful place ! exclaimed the child . 
'Look in , said the old man , pointing downward with his finger . 
The child complied , and gazed down into the pit . 
'It looks like a grave itself , said the old man . 
'It does , replied the child . 
'I have often had the fancy , said the sexton , 'that it might have been dug at first to make the old place more gloomy , and the old monks more religious . 
It's to be closed up , and built over . 
The child still stood , looking thoughtfully into the vault . 
'We shall see , said the sexton , 'on what gay heads other earth will have closed , when the light is shut out from here . 
God knows ! They'll close it up , next spring . 
'The birds sing again in spring , thought the child , as she leaned at her casement window , and gazed at the declining sun . 
These arrangements perfected to his entire satisfaction , he thrust his hands into his pockets , and walked up and down the office with measured steps . 
'It has always been the same with me , said Mr Swiveller , 'always . 
Overpowered by these reflections , Mr Swiveller stopped short at the clients' chair , and flung himself into its open arms . 
'And this , said Mr Swiveller , with a kind of bantering composure , 'is life , I believe . 
Why not ! I'm quite satisfied . 
Opening the door with all speed , he beheld the expressive countenance of Mr Chuckster , between whom and himself a fraternal greeting ensued . 
'You're devilish early at this pestiferous old slaughter house , said that gentleman , poising himself on one leg , and shaking the other in an easy manner . 
'Rather ! retorted Mr Chuckster , with that air of graceful trifling which so well became him . 
Why , my good feller , do you know what o'clock it is half past nine a . 
in the morning ? 'Won't you come in ? said Dick . 
'Tis now the witching Hour of night ! When churchyards yawn , And graves give up their dead . 
At the end of this quotation in dialogue , each gentleman struck an attitude , and immediately subsiding into prose walked into the office . 
Such morsels of enthusiasm are common among the Glorious Apollos , and were indeed the links that bound them together , and raised them above the cold dull earth . 
'Well , and how are you my buck ? said Mr Chuckster , taking a stool . 
It is so everlastingly early . 
'And what's the news ? said Richard . 
'The town's as flat , my dear feller , replied Mr Chuckster , 'as the surface of a Dutch oven . 
By the bye , that lodger of yours is a most extraordinary person . 
He quite eludes the most vigorous comprehension , you know . 
Never was such a feller ! 'What has he been doing now ? said Dick . 
Sir , that man has made friends with our articled clerk . 
There's no harm in him , but he is so amazingly slow and soft . 
Now , if he wanted a friend , why couldn't he have one that knew a thing or two , and could do him some good by his manners and conversation . 
I have my faults , sir , said Mr Chuckster 'No , no , interposed Mr Swiveller . 
'Oh yes I have , I have my faults , no man knows his faults better than I know mine . 
But , said Mr Chuckster , 'I'm not meek . 
My worst enemies every man has his enemies , Sir , and I have mine never accused me of being meek . 
I'd die degraded , as I had lived . 
I would upon my honour . 
'Not contented , Sir , said Mr Chuckster , 'with making friends with Abel , he has cultivated the acquaintance of his father and mother . 
Since he came home from that wild goose chase , he has been there actually been there . 
I should have no alternative . 
Mr Swiveller , who sat on another stool opposite to his friend , stirred the fire in an excess of sympathy , but said nothing . 
'As to young Snob , sir , pursued Mr Chuckster with a prophetic look , 'you'll find he'll turn out bad . 
He's a low thief , sir . 
'Is the gentleman at home ? said Kit , rather astonished by this uncommon reception . 
should have mentioned his name , leaving it to his hearers to determine his degree as they thought proper . 
might find to their cost . 
'I mean the gentleman up stairs , said Kit , turning to Richard Swiveller . 
'Is he at home ? 'Why ? rejoined Dick . 
'Because if he is , I have a letter for him . 
'From whom ? said Dick . 
'Oh ! said Dick , with extreme politeness . 
'Then you may hand it over , Sir . 
And if you're to wait for an answer , Sir , you may wait in the passage , Sir , which is an airy and well ventilated apartment , sir . 
'Thank you , returned Kit . 
'But I am to give it to himself , if you please . 
, when the single gentleman was heard to call violently down the stairs . 
'Didn't I see somebody for me , come in ? cried the lodger . 
'Yes , Sir , replied Dick . 
'Then where is he ? roared the single gentleman . 
'He's here , sir , rejoined Mr Swiveller . 
'Didn't I tell you so ? said Mr Chuckster . 
He was relieved from his perplexity , however , by the entrance of Mr Sampson and his sister , Sally , at sight of whom Mr Chuckster precipitately retired . 
Mr Brass and his lovely companion appeared to have been holding a consultation over their temperate breakfast , upon some matter of great interest and importance . 
In the present instance , they seemed particularly gay Miss Sally's aspect being of a most oily kind , and Mr Brass rubbing his hands in an exceedingly jocose and light hearted manner . 
'Well , Mr Richard , said Brass . 
'How are we this morning ? Are we pretty fresh and cheerful sir eh , Mr Richard ? 'Pretty well , sir , replied Dick . 
'That's well , said Brass . 
'Ha ha ! We should be as gay as larks , Mr Richard why not ? It's a pleasant world we live in sir , a very pleasant world . 
There are bad people in it , Mr Richard , but if there were no bad people , there would be no good lawyers . 
Ha ha ! Any letters by the post this morning , Mr Richard ? Mr Swiveller answered in the negative . 
'Ha ! said Brass , 'no matter . 
If there's little business to day , there'll be more to morrow . 
A contented spirit , Mr Richard , is the sweetness of existence . 
Anybody been here , sir ? 'Only my friend' replied Dick . 
May we ne'er want a 'Friend , Brass chimed in quickly , 'or a bottle to give him . 
Ha ha ! That's the way the song runs , isn't it ? A very good song , Mr Richard , very good . 
I like the sentiment of it . 
'Oh indeed ! cried Brass . 
'With him now ! cried Brass 'Ha ha ! There let 'em be , merry and free , toor rul rol le . 
Eh , Mr Richard ? Ha ha ! 'Oh certainly , replied Dick . 
'Kit , they call him . 
'Kit , eh ! said Brass . 
At length , in one of these pauses , he heard his lodger's door opened and shut , and footsteps coming down the stairs . 
'You are not to go , if you please , Kit , said the attorney in a mysterious and yet business like way . 
'You are to step in here , if you please . 
I remember your coming there , twice or thrice , when we were in possession . 
'Shorn indeed ! thought Kit . 
'Pretty close ! But he didn't say SO . 
to obtain them the indulgence they had . 
It might have cost me a client . 
But suffering virtue inspired me , and I prevailed . 
'He's not so bad after all , thought honest Kit , as the attorney pursed up his lips and looked like a man who was struggling with his better feelings . 
'I respect you , Kit , said Brass with emotion . 
'I saw enough of your conduct , at that time , to respect you , though your station is humble , and your fortune lowly . 
It isn't the waistcoat that I look at . 
The checks in the waistcoat are but the wires of the cage . 
But the heart is the bird . 
'Well , well , said Sampson , smiling as good men smile when they compassionate their own weakness or that of their fellow creatures , 'this is wide of the bull's eye . 
You're to take that , if you please . 
As he spoke , he pointed to a couple of half crowns on the desk . 
Kit looked at the coins , and then at Sampson , and hesitated . 
'For yourself , said Brass . 
'From 'No matter about the person they came from , replied the lawyer . 
'Say me , if you like . 
Mr Brass remained airing himself at the fire , and resumed his vocal exercise , and his seraphic smile , simultaneously . 
'May I come in ? said Miss Sally , peeping . 
'Oh yes , you may come in , returned her brother . 
'Ahem ! coughed Miss Brass interrogatively . 
'Why , yes , returned Sampson , 'I should say as good as done . 
CHAPTER Mr Chuckster's indignant apprehensions were not without foundation . 
Certainly the friendship between the single gentleman and Mr Garland was not suffered to cool , but had a rapid growth and flourished exceedingly . 
Whenever the sound reached his ears , he would immediately lay down his pen and fall to rubbing his hands and exhibiting the greatest glee . 
'Ha ha ! he would cry . 
'The old gentleman again ! he would exclaim , 'a very prepossessing old gentleman , Mr Richard charming countenance sir extremely calm benevolence in every feature , sir . 
'Admirably groomed , Kit' Mr Brass is patting the pony 'does you great credit amazingly sleek and bright to be sure . 
He literally looks as if he had been varnished all over . 
Kit touches his hat , smiles , pats the pony himself , and expresses his conviction , 'that Mr Brass will not find many like him . 
'A beautiful animal indeed ! cries Brass . 
'Sagacious too ? 'Bless you ! replies Kit , 'he knows what you say to him as well as a Christian does . 
'Ah ! rejoins Mr Brass , brim full of moral precepts and love of virtue . 
'A charming subject of reflection for you , very charming . 
A subject of proper pride and congratulation , Christopher . 
Honesty is the best policy . 
I always find it so myself . 
I lost forty seven pound ten by being honest this morning . 
But it's all gain , it's gain ! Mr Brass slyly tickles his nose with his pen , and looks at Kit with the water standing in his eyes . 
Kit thinks that if ever there was a good man who belied his appearance , that man is Sampson Brass . 
'A man , says Sampson , 'who loses forty seven pound ten in one morning by his honesty , is a man to be envied . 
If it had been eighty pound , the luxuriousness of feeling would have been increased . 
Every pound lost , would have been a hundredweight of happiness gained . 
Mr Swiveller out of sight , Miss Sally immediately withdrew . 
Mr Brass would then set the office door wide open , hum his old tune with great gaiety of heart , and smile seraphically as before . 
'Oh ! I didn't mean any harm indeed , upon my word I didn't , cried the small servant , struggling like a much larger one . 
'It's so very dull , down stairs , Please don't you tell upon me , please don't . 
'Tell upon you ! said Dick . 
'Do you mean to say you were looking through the keyhole for company ? 'Yes , upon my word I was , replied the small servant . 
'How long have you been cooling your eye there ? said Dick . 
'Oh ever since you first began to play them cards , and long before . 
'Well come in' he said , after a little consideration . 
'Here sit down , and I'll teach you how to play . 
'Oh ! I durstn't do it , rejoined the small servant 'Miss Sally 'ud kill me , if she know'd I come up here . 
'Have you got a fire down stairs ? said Dick . 
'A very little one , replied the small servant . 
'Miss Sally couldn't kill me if she know'd I went down there , so I'll come , said Richard , putting the cards into his pocket . 
'Why , how thin you are ! What do you mean by it ? 'It ain't my fault . 
'Could you eat any bread and meat ? said Dick , taking down his hat . 
'Yes ? Ah ! I thought so . 
Did you ever taste beer ? 'I had a sip of it once , said the small servant . 
'Here's a state of things ! cried Mr Swiveller , raising his eyes to the ceiling . 
'She never tasted it it can't be tasted in a sip ! Why , how old are you ? 'I don't know . 
Mr Swiveller opened his eyes very wide , and appeared thoughtful for a moment then , bidding the child mind the door until he came back , vanished straightway . 
Relieving the boy of his burden at the door , and charging his little companion to fasten it to prevent surprise , Mr Swiveller followed her into the kitchen . 
'There ! said Richard , putting the plate before her . 
'First of all clear that off , and then you'll see what's next . 
The small servant needed no second bidding , and the plate was soon empty . 
'Next , said Dick , handing the purl , 'take a pull at that but moderate your transports , you know , for you're not used to it . 
Well , is it good ? 'Oh ! isn't it ? said the small servant . 
Mr Swiveller appeared gratified beyond all expression by this reply , and took a long draught himself , steadfastly regarding his companion while he did so . 
These preliminaries disposed of , he applied himself to teaching her the game , which she soon learnt tolerably well , being both sharp witted and cunning . 
'Now , said Mr Swiveller , putting two sixpences into a saucer , and trimming the wretched candle , when the cards had been cut and dealt , 'those are the stakes . 
If you win , you get 'em all . 
If I win , I get 'em . 
To make it seem more real and pleasant , I shall call you the Marchioness , do you hear ? The small servant nodded . 
You will excuse my wearing my hat , but the palace is damp , and the marble floor is if I may be allowed the expression sloppy . 
at the Play ? said Mr Swiveller , leaning his left arm heavily upon the table , and raising his voice and his right leg after the manner of a theatrical bandit . 
'Ha ! said Mr Swiveller , with a portentous frown . 
Marchioness ! but no matter . 
Ho ! He illustrated these melodramatic morsels by handing the tankard to himself with great humility , receiving it haughtily , drinking from it thirstily , and smacking his lips fiercely . 
'Miss Sally's such a one er for that , she is . 
'Such a what ? said Dick . 
'Such a one er , returned the Marchioness . 
'Not half what Miss Sally is , he isn't , replied the small servant , shaking her head . 
'Bless you , he'd never do anything without her . 
'Oh ! He wouldn't , wouldn't he ? said Dick . 
'Miss Sally keeps him in such order , said the small servant 'he always asks her advice , he does and he catches it sometimes . 
Bless you , you wouldn't believe how much he catches it . 
'Complimentary ? said Mr Swiveller . 
'Well , Marchioness , said Mr Swiveller , 'that's not uncomplimentary . 
Merriment , Marchioness , is not a bad or a degrading quality . 
Old King Cole was himself a merry old soul , if we may put any faith in the pages of history . 
'But she says , pursued his companion , 'that you an't to be trusted . 
'Why , really Marchioness , said Mr Swiveller , thoughtfully 'several ladies and gentlemen not exactly professional persons , but tradespeople , ma'am , tradespeople have made the same remark . 
The obscure citizen who keeps the hotel over the way , inclined strongly to that opinion to night when I ordered him to prepare the banquet . 
I am your friend , and I hope we shall play many more rubbers together in this same saloon . 
'You didn't find it then ? said Dick . 
'But of course you didn't , or you'd be plumper . 
Fare thee well , and if for ever , then for ever fare thee well and put up the chain , Marchioness , in case of accidents . 
, wisely resolved to betake himself to his lodgings , and to bed at once . 
'These rubbers , said Mr Swiveller , putting on his nightcap in exactly the same style as he wore his hat , 'remind me of the matrimonial fireside . 
Cheggs's wife plays cribbage all fours likewise . 
She rings the changes on 'em now . 
From sport to sport they hurry her to banish her regrets , and when they win a smile from her , they think that she forgets but she don't . 
At last , undressing himself with a gloomy resolution , he got into bed . 
This difficulty overcome , he took his seat at the desk . 
'No , but have you ? returned Miss Brass . 
'What a dull dog you must be to ask me such a question seriously , said Mr Swiveller . 
'Halloa ! thought Richard , 'I hope the Marchioness hasn't been at work here . 
'There was a knife too , said Miss Sally , 'of the same pattern . 
They were given to me by my father , years ago , and are both gone . 
In particular , I have missed three half crowns at three different times . 
'You don't mean that ? cried Dick . 
'Be careful what you say , old boy , for this is a serious matter . 
Are you quite sure ? Is there no mistake ? 'It is so , and there can't be any mistake at all , rejoined Miss Brass emphatically . 
Mr Richard not receiving his remarks with anything like enthusiasm , his employer turned his eyes to his face , and observed that it wore a troubled expression . 
'You're out of spirits , sir , said Brass . 
'Mr Richard , sir , we should fall to work cheerfully , and not in a despondent state . 
It becomes us , Mr Richard , sir , to Here the chaste Sarah heaved a loud sigh . 
The countenance of Sampson fell , and anxiety overspread his features . 
Richard Swiveller pointed to it , and admonished him to take it up . 
'No , Mr Richard , sir , rejoined Brass with emotion , 'I will not take it up . 
I will let it lie there , sir . 
To take it up , Mr Richard , sir , would imply a doubt of you and in you , sir , I have unlimited confidence . 
We will let it lie there , Sir , if you please , and we will not take it up by any means . 
When he had made a suitable reply , Mr Brass wrung him by the hand , and fell into a brown study , as did Miss Sally likewise . 
Richard too remained in a thoughtful state fearing every moment to hear the Marchioness impeached , and unable to resist the conviction that she must be guilty . 
'Well , cried Brass anxiously . 
'Why , what do you call him Kit . 
'Mr Garland's young man ? 'To be sure . 
I'll not hear of it . 
Don't tell me' said Sampson , shaking his head , and working with both his hands as if he were clearing away ten thousand cobwebs . 
'I'll never believe it of him . 
Never ! 'I say , repeated Miss Brass , taking another pinch of snuff , 'that he's the thief . 
'I say , returned Sampson violently , 'that he is not . 
They were addressed to some person who had knocked at the office door and they had hardly passed the lips of Mr Brass , when this very Kit himself looked in . 
I am glad to see you Kit , I am rejoiced to see you . 
Look in again , as you come down stairs , Kit . 
That lad a robber ! cried Brass when he had withdrawn , 'with that frank and open countenance ! I'd trust him with untold gold . 
Mr Richard , sir , have the goodness to step directly to Wrasp and Co . 
's in Broad Street , and inquire if they have had instructions to appear in Carkem and Painter . 
THAT lad a robber , sneered Sampson , flushed and heated with his wrath . 
He was not singing as usual , nor was he seated at his desk . 
The open door showed him standing before the fire with his back towards it , and looking so very strange that Kit supposed he must have been suddenly taken ill . 
'Is anything the matter , sir ? said Kit . 
Why anything the matter ? 'You are so very pale , said Kit , 'that I should hardly have known you . 
'Pooh pooh ! mere fancy , cried Brass , stooping to throw up the cinders . 
'Never better , Kit , never better in all my life . 
Ha ha ! How's our friend above stairs , eh ? 'A great deal better , said Kit . 
'I'm glad to hear it , rejoined Brass 'thankful , I may say . 
An excellent gentleman worthy , liberal , generous , gives very little trouble an admirable lodger . 
Ha ha ! Mr Garland he's well I hope , Kit and the pony my friend , my particular friend you know . 
Ha ha ! Kit gave a satisfactory account of all the little household at Abel Cottage . 
Mr Brass , who seemed remarkably inattentive and impatient , mounted on his stool , and beckoning him to come nearer , took him by the button hole . 
'A widow , I think ? an industrious widow ? 'A harder working woman or a better mother never lived , Sir . 
'That's affecting , truly affecting . 
A poor widow struggling to maintain her orphans in decency and comfort , is a delicious picture of human goodness . 
Put down your hat , Kit . 
'Thank you Sir , I must be going directly . 
'I was thinking , Kit , that we have often houses to let for people we are concerned for , and matters of that sort . 
Now you know we're obliged to put people into those houses to take care of 'em very often undeserving people that we can't depend upon . 
Now what do you think of that ? Do you see any objection ? My only desire is to serve you , Kit therefore if you do , say so freely . 
As Brass spoke , he moved the hat twice or thrice , and shuffled among the papers again , as if in search of something . 
'How can I see any objection to such a kind offer , sir ? replied Kit with his whole heart . 
'I don't know how to thank you sir , I don't indeed . 
'Why then , it's done . 
Kit looked at him in some confusion . 
'Done , I say , added Sampson , rubbing his hands and veiling himself again in his usual oily manner . 
'Ha ha ! and so you shall find Kit , so you shall find . 
I'll not detain you an instant longer , on any account , Kit . 
Talking as he went , Mr Brass bustled out of the office , and in a very short time returned . 
'Oh ! sneered Sally , looking after him as she entered . 
'There goes your pet , Sammy , eh ? 'Ah ! There he goes , replied Brass . 
'My pet , if you please . 
An honest fellow , Mr Richard , sir a worthy fellow indeed ! 'Hem ! coughed Miss Brass . 
'I tell you , you aggravating vagabond , said the angry Sampson , 'that I'd stake my life upon his honesty . 
Miss Sally pulled out the tin snuff box , and took a long , slow pinch , regarding her brother with a steady gaze all the time . 
'She drives me wild , Mr Richard , sir , said Brass , 'she exasperates me beyond all bearing . 
I am heated and excited , sir , I know I am . 
These are not business manners , sir , nor business looks , but she carries me out of myself . 
'Why don't you leave him alone ? said Dick . 
But never mind , said Brass , 'never mind . 
I've shown my confidence in the lad . 
He has minded the office again . 
Ha ha ! Ugh , you viper ! The beautiful virgin took another pinch , and put the snuff box in her pocket still looking at her brother with perfect composure . 
'Gone ! Now who's right ? Now who's got it ? Never mind five pounds what's five pounds ? He's honest , you know , quite honest . 
It would be mean to suspect him . 
No , no , not for the world ! 'Is it really gone though ? said Dick , looking at Brass with a face as pale as his own . 
'Upon my word , Mr Richard , Sir , replied the lawyer , feeling in all his pockets with looks of the greatest agitation , 'I fear this is a black business . 
It's certainly gone , Sir . 
What's to be done ? 'Don't run after him , said Miss Sally , taking more snuff . 
'Don't run after him on any account . 
Give him time to get rid of it , you know . 
It happened that Kit had been running too , though not so fast , and having the start of them by some few minutes , was a good distance ahead . 
'Stop ! cried Sampson , laying his hand on one shoulder , while Mr Swiveller pounced upon the other . 
You're in a hurry ? 'Yes , I am , said Kit , looking from one to the other in great surprise . 
'I I can hardly believe it , panted Sampson , 'but something of value is missing from the office . 
I hope you don't know what . 
'Know what ! good Heaven , Mr Brass ! cried Kit , trembling from head to foot 'you don't suppose 'No , no , rejoined Brass quickly , 'I don't suppose anything . 
Don't say I said you did . 
You'll come back quietly , I hope ? 'Of course I will , returned Kit . 
'Why not ? 'To be sure ! said Brass . 
'Why not ? I hope there may turn out to be no why not . 
If you knew the trouble I've been in , this morning , through taking your part , Christopher , you'd be sorry for it . 
'And I am sure you'll be sorry for having suspected me sir , replied Kit . 
Let us make haste back . 
'Certainly ! cried Brass , 'the quicker , the better . 
Mr Richard have the goodness , sir , to take that arm . 
It's not easy walking three abreast , but under these circumstances it must be done , sir there's no help for it . 
Kit did turn from white to red , and from red to white again , when they secured him thus , and for a moment seemed disposed to resist . 
'Search me , said Kit , proudly holding up his arms . 
'But mind , sir I know you'll be sorry for this , to the last day of your life . 
Nothing here , Mr Richard , Sir , all perfectly satisfactory . 
Nor in the waistcoat , Mr Richard , nor in the coat tails . 
So far , I am rejoiced , I am sure . 
'Here's a handkerchief , said Dick . 
'No harm in that sir , rejoined Brass , applying his eye to the other sleeve , and speaking in the voice of one who was contemplating an immense extent of prospect . 
'No harm in a handkerchief Sir , whatever . 
An exclamation , at once from Richard Swiveller , Miss Sally , and Kit himself , cut the lawyer short . 
He turned his head , and saw Dick standing with the bank note in his hand . 
'In the hat ? cried Brass in a sort of shriek . 
'Under the handkerchief , and tucked beneath the lining , said Dick , aghast at the discovery . 
Mr Brass looked at him , at his sister , at the walls , at the ceiling , at the floor everywhere but at Kit , who stood quite stupefied and motionless . 
Sally my dear , forgive me , and catch hold of him on the other side . 
Mr Richard , sir , have the goodness to run and fetch a constable . 
The weakness is past and over sir , and moral strength returns . 
Between the brother and sister he remained in this posture , quite unresisting and passive , until Mr Swiveller returned , with a police constable at his heels . 
'We had better , said this subordinate minister of justice , 'get to the office while there's a magistrate sitting . 
'The lady , eh ? said Sampson . 
'Ah ! replied the constable . 
Likewise the young man that found the property . 
'Mr Richard , Sir , said Brass in a mournful voice . 
carelessly by the arm , a little above the elbow . 
'Be so good as send for one , will you ? 'But , hear me speak a word , cried Kit , raising his eyes and looking imploringly about him . 
'Hear me speak a word . 
I am no more guilty than any one of you . 
Upon my soul I am not . 
I a thief ! Oh , Mr Brass , you know me better . 
I am sure you know me better . 
This is not right of you , indeed . 
'I give you my word , constable said Brass . 
But here the constable interposed with the constitutional principle 'words be blowed observing that words were but spoon meat for babes and sucklings , and that oaths were the food for strong men . 
'Quite true , constable , assented Brass in the same mournful tone . 
Was I ever once dishonest when I was poor and hungry , and is it likely I would begin now ! Oh consider what you do . 
'And he can hardly believe it , either , said Sampson , when he returned , 'nor nobody will . 
I wish I could doubt the evidence of my senses , but their depositions are unimpeachable . 
It's of no use cross examining my eyes , cried Sampson , winking and rubbing them , 'they stick to their first account , and will . 
Now , Sarah , I hear the coach in the Marks get on your bonnet , and we'll be off . 
A sad errand ! a moral funeral , quite ! 'Mr Brass , said Kit . 
Take me to Mr Witherden's first . 
Sampson shook his head irresolutely . 
For Heaven's sake , take me there , first . 
'Well , I don't know , stammered Brass , who perhaps had his reasons for wishing to show as fair as possible in the eyes of the notary . 
, thrust him into the vehicle and followed himself . 
Miss Sally entered next and there being now four inside , Sampson Brass got upon the box , and made the coachman drive on . 
Dream like as the story was , it was true . 
He stood charged with robbery the note had been found upon him , though he was innocent in thought and deed and they were carrying him back , a prisoner . 
Mr Brass , on recognising him , immediately stopped the coach . 
As it came to a halt directly opposite to where he stood , the dwarf pulled off his hat , and saluted the party with a hideous and grotesque politeness . 
'Very much so ! Ah , sir a sad business ! Never believe in honesty any more , sir . 
'Why not ? returned the dwarf . 
'Why not , you rogue of a lawyer , why not ? 'Bank note lost in our office sir , said Brass , shaking his head . 
'Found in his hat sir he previously left alone there no mistake at all sir chain of evidence complete not a link wanting . 
'What ! cried the dwarf , leaning half his body out of window . 
'Kit a thief ! Kit a thief ! Ha ha ha ! Why , he's an uglier looking thief than can be seen anywhere for a penny . 
'Is it coming to that , Kit ! cried the dwarf , rubbing his hands violently . 
'Ha ha ha ha ! What a disappointment for little Jacob , and for his darling mother ! Let him have the Bethel minister to comfort and console him , Brass . 
Eh , Kit , eh ? Drive on coachey , drive on . 
Bye bye , Kit all good go with you keep up your spirits my love to the Garlands the dear old lady and gentleman . 
Say I inquired after 'em , will you ? Blessings on 'em , on you , and on everybody , Kit . 
Miss Sally complying , he desired Mr Swiveller to accompany them . 
So , into the office they went Mr Sampson and his sister arm in arm and Mr Swiveller following , alone . 
'Sir , said Sampson , taking off his hat , and kissing the two fore fingers of his right hand beaver glove , 'my name is Brass Brass of Bevis Marks , Sir . 
I have had the honour and pleasure , Sir , of being concerned against you in some little testamentary matters . 
How do you do , sir ? 'My clerk will attend to any business you may have come upon , Mr Brass , said the notary , turning away . 
'Thank you Sir , said Brass , 'thank you , I am sure . 
Allow me , Sir , to introduce my sister quite one of us Sir , although of the weaker sex of great use in my business Sir , I assure you . 
, and speaking in the tone of an injured man , 'really Sir , I must , under favour , request a word or two with you , indeed . 
'Mr Brass , said the other , in a decided tone , 'I am engaged . 
You see that I am occupied with these gentlemen . 
If you will communicate your business to Mr Chuckster yonder , you will receive every attention . 
I am of the law . 
I am styled gentleman by Act of Parliament . 
I maintain the title by the annual payment of twelve pound sterling for a certificate . 
I am none of your strollers or vagabonds . 
If any man brings his action against me , he must describe me as a gentleman , or his action is null and void . 
I appeal to you is this quite respectful ? Really gentlemen 'Well , will you have the goodness to state your business then , Mr Brass ? said the notary . 
'Sir , rejoined Brass , 'I will . 
Ah Mr Witherden ! you little know the but I will not be tempted to travel from the point , sir , I believe the name of one of these gentlemen is Garland . 
'Of both , said the notary . 
'In deed ! rejoined Brass , cringing excessively . 
'But I might have known that , from the uncommon likeness . 
Extremely happy , I am sure , to have the honour of an introduction to two such gentlemen , although the occasion is a most painful one . 
One of you gentlemen has a servant called Kit ? 'Both , replied the notary . 
'Two Kits ? said Brass smiling . 
'Dear me ! 'One Kit , sir , returned Mr Witherden angrily , 'who is employed by both gentlemen . 
What of him ? 'This of him , sir , rejoined Brass , dropping his voice impressively . 
'This must be some falsehood ! cried the notary . 
'It is not possible , said Mr Abel . 
'I'll not believe one word of it , exclaimed the old gentleman . 
Hows'ever , sir , being what I am , I merely scorn such expressions . 
The honest warmth of the other gentleman I respect , and I'm truly sorry to be the messenger of such unpleasant news . 
Mr Swiveller , though an unwilling witness , could not help proving to demonstration , from the position in which it was found , that it must have been designedly secreted . 
'It's very distressing , said Brass , 'immensely distressing , I am sure . 
When he comes to be tried , I shall be very happy to recommend him to mercy on account of his previous good character . 
I did lose money before , certainly , but it doesn't quite follow that he took it . 
'But that , as he always told me , was given him by Mr Brass himself . 
'Yes to be sure , said Kit eagerly . 
'You can bear me out in that , Sir ? 'Eh ? cried Brass , looking from face to face with an expression of stupid amazement . 
'The money you know , the half crowns , that you gave me from the lodger , said Kit . 
'Oh dear me ! cried Brass , shaking his head and frowning heavily . 
'This is a bad case , I find a very bad case indeed . 
'What ! Did you give him no money on account of anybody , Sir ? asked Mr Garland , with great anxiety . 
'I give him money , Sir ! returned Sampson . 
'Oh , come you know , this is too barefaced . 
Constable , my good fellow , we had better be going . 
'Does he deny that he did ? ask him , somebody , pray . 
Ask him to tell you whether he did or not ! 'Did you , sir ? asked the notary . 
Did I , sir ? Of course I never did . 
Which of us looks the guilty person he , or I ? 'You hear him , gentlemen ? said Brass , smiling , 'you hear him . 
These arrangements perfected , they drove to the justice room with all speed , followed by the notary and his two friends in another coach . 
At the justice room , they found the single gentleman , who had gone straight there , and was expecting them with desperate impatience . 
The world , however , was not in fault in Kit's case . 
At last , the morning dawned , and there was the jail itself cold , black , and dreary , and very real indeed . 
He was left to himself , however , and there was comfort in that . 
, until he heard the key in the lock , and the man entered again . 
'Now then , he said , 'come on ! 'Where to , Sir ? asked Kit . 
Beyond this grating , at the distance of about four or five feet , was another exactly like it . 
Poor Kit could not help joining them , and not one of them could speak a word . 
'Now , ladies , ladies , he said , looking round with surprise , 'I'd advise you not to waste time like this . 
It's allowanced here , you know . 
You mustn't let that child make that noise either . 
'I'm his poor mother , sir , sobbed Mrs Nubbles , curtseying humbly , 'and this is his brother , sir . 
'It can't be helped you know . 
He ain't the only one in the same fix . 
You mustn't make a noise about it ! With that he went on reading . 
The man was not unnaturally cruel or hard hearted . 
He had come to look upon felony as a kind of disorder , like the scarlet fever or erysipelas some people had it some hadn't just as it might be . 
At this the poor woman fell a crying again , and Barbara's mother too . 
'I have brought him a little something to eat , said the good woman . 
'If you please , Sir , might he have it ? 'Yes , he may have it . 
There's no rule against that . 
Give it to me when you go , and I'll take care he has it . 
And again the tears of Kit's mother burst forth , and of Barbara's mother , and of little Jacob . 
As to the baby , it was crowing and laughing with its might under the idea , apparently , that the whole scene had been invented and got up for its particular satisfaction . 
Kit was taken off in an instant , with a blessing from his mother , and a scream from little Jacob , ringing in his ears . 
'This is Christopher Nubbles , isn't it , that come in last night for felony ? said the man . 
His comrade replied that this was the chicken in question . 
'Then here's your beer , said the other man to Christopher . 
'What are you looking at ? There an't a discharge in it . 
'I beg your pardon , said Kit . 
'Who sent it me ? 'Why , your friend , replied the man . 
'You're to have it every day , he says . 
And so you will , if he pays for it . 
'My friend ! repeated Kit . 
'You're all abroad , seemingly , returned the other man . 
Take hold ! Kit took it , and when he was locked up again , read as follows . 
'Drink of this cup , you'll find there's a spell in its every drop 'gainst the ills of mortality . 
If they ever send it in a flat state , complain to the Governor . 
Yours , R. S. 'R . 
S. ! said Kit , after some consideration . 
'It must be Mr Richard Swiveller . 
Well , its very kind of him , and I thank him heartily . 
'A treacherous place to pick one's steps in , of a dark night , muttered Sampson , as he stumbled for the twentieth time over some stray lumber , and limped in pain . 
'I believe that boy strews the ground differently every day , on purpose to bruise and maim one unless his master does it with his own hands , which is more than likely . 
I hate to come to this place without Sally . 
She's more protection than a dozen men . 
As he paid this compliment to the merit of the absent charmer , Mr Brass came to a halt looking doubtfully towards the light , and over his shoulder . 
I'm always afraid to come here by myself , when his account's a pretty large one . 
Every time he came to this concluding word , and had exhausted all possible stress upon it , Quilp burst into a shriek of laughter , and began again . 
'He's dreadfully imprudent , muttered Brass , after he had listened to two or three repetitions of the chant . 
I wish he was dumb . 
I wish he was deaf . 
I wish he was blind . 
Hang him , cried Brass , as the chant began again . 
'Come in ! cried the dwarf . 
'How do you do to night sir ? said Sampson , peeping in . 
'What , Judas ? 'Judas ! cried Brass . 
Being originally much too large for the apartment which it was now employed to decorate , it had been sawn short off at the waist . 
'Do you know it ? said the dwarf , watching Sampson's eyes . 
'Do you see the likeness ? 'Eh ? said Brass , holding his head on one side , and throwing it a little back , as connoisseurs do . 
'Excellent indeed ! cried Brass . 
'He he ! Oh , very good Sir . 
You know , said Sampson , looking round as if in appeal to the bruised animal , 'he's quite a remarkable man quite ! 'Sit down , said the dwarf . 
'I bought the dog yesterday . 
I've been screwing gimlets into him , and sticking forks in his eyes , and cutting my name on him . 
I mean to burn him at last . 
'Ha ha ! cried Brass . 
'Extremely entertaining , indeed ! 'Come here , said Quilp , beckoning him to draw near . 
'What's injudicious , hey ? 'Nothing Sir nothing . 
'Why ? inquired Quilp , without looking up . 
'Eh ! said Quilp , looking up with a perfectly vacant countenance . 
'What do you mean ? 'Cautious , exceedingly cautious , very right and proper ! cried Brass , nodding his head . 
'Mum , sir , even here my meaning , sir , exactly . 
'YOUR meaning exactly , you brazen scarecrow , what's your meaning ? retorted Quilp . 
'if you so wink and nod at me , said the dwarf , looking about him as if for his poker , 'I'll spoil the expression of your monkey's face , I will . 
'Don't put yourself out of the way I beg , sir , rejoined Brass , checking himself with great alacrity . 
'You're quite right , sir , quite right . 
I shouldn't have mentioned the subject , sir . 
It's much better not to . 
You're quite right , sir . 
Let us change it , if you please . 
You were asking , sir , Sally told me , about our lodger . 
He has not returned , sir . 
'No ? said Quilp , heating some rum in a little saucepan , and watching it to prevent its boiling over . 
'You have forgotten the water , sir , said Brass . 
'And excuse me , sir but it's burning hot . 
Having swallowed this gentle stimulant , and shaken his fist at the admiral , he bade Mr Brass proceed . 
'But first , said Quilp , with his accustomed grin , 'have a drop yourself a nice drop a good , warm , fiery drop . 
'The lodger , said Quilp , what about him ? 'He is still , sir , returned Brass , with intervals of coughing , 'stopping with the Garland family . 
He has only been home once , Sir , since the day of the examination of that culprit . 
A very excellent lodger Sir . 
I hope we may not lose him . 
'Yah ! cried the dwarf . 
I do indeed , Mr Quilp . 
'Moisten your clay , wet the other eye , drink , man ! cried the dwarf . 
'You took a clerk to oblige me . 
'Delighted , sir , I am sure , at any time , replied Sampson . 
'Yes , Sir , I did . 
'Then now you may discharge him , said Quilp . 
'There's a means of retrenchment for you at once . 
'Discharge Mr Richard , sir ? cried Brass . 
'Have you more than one clerk , you parrot , that you ask the question ? Yes . 
should be , while he and his precious friend believed them rich , in reality as poor as frozen rats ? 'I quite understood that , sir , rejoined Brass . 
'Of course you do , retorted the dwarf , viciously snapping at his words . 
You can't put any confidence in him , sir . 
If you'll believe me I've found that fellow , in the commonest little matters of the office that have been trusted to him , blurting out the truth , though expressly cautioned . 
The aggravation of that chap sir , has exceeded anything you can imagine , it has indeed . 
There's no chance of his comrade and friend returning . 
The scamp has been obliged to fly , as I learn , for some knavery , and has found his way abroad . 
Forcible ! cried Brass , glancing at the admiral again , as if he made a third in company . 
'Extremely forcible ! 'I hate him , said Quilp between his teeth , 'and have always hated him , for family reasons . 
Besides , he was an intractable ruffian otherwise he would have been of use . 
This fellow is pigeon hearted and light headed . 
I don't want him any longer . 
Let him hang or drown starve go to the devil . 
'By all means , sir , returned Brass . 
'When would you wish him , sir , to ha , ha ! to make that little excursion ? 'When this trial's over , said Quilp . 
'As soon as that's ended , send him about his business . 
'It shall be done , sir , returned Brass 'by all means . 
It will be rather a blow to Sarah , sir , but she has all her feelings under control . 
Sarah was his pride and joy , sir . 
He would have closed his eyes in bliss , would Foxey , Mr Quilp , if he could have found her such a partner . 
You esteem her , sir ? 'I love her , croaked the dwarf . 
'You're very good , Sir , returned Brass , 'I am sure . 
Is there any other order , sir , that I can take a note of , besides this little matter of Mr Richard ? 'None , replied the dwarf , seizing the saucepan . 
'Let us drink the lovely Sarah . 
'If we could do it in something , sir , that wasn't quite boiling , suggested Brass humbly , 'perhaps it would be better . 
But to these remonstrances , Mr Quilp turned a deaf ear . 
After a brief stupor , he awoke to a consciousness of being partly under the table and partly under the grate . 
Mr Brass's first impression was , that his host was gone and had left him there alone perhaps locked him in for the night . 
A strong smell of tobacco , however , suggested a new train of ideas , he looked upward , and saw that the dwarf was smoking in his hammock . 
'Good bye , Sir , cried Brass faintly . 
'Won't you stop all night ? said the dwarf , peeping out . 
'Do stop all night ! 'I couldn't indeed , Sir , replied Brass , who was almost dead from nausea and the closeness of the room . 
'To be sure , he said , taking up a lantern , which was now the only light in the place . 
'Be careful how you go , my dear friend . 
Be sure to pick your way among the timber , for all the rusty nails are upwards . 
There's a dog in the lane . 
He bit a man last night , and a woman the night before , and last Tuesday he killed a child but that was in play . 
Don't go too near him . 
'Which side of the road is he , sir ? asked Brass , in great dismay . 
'He lives on the right hand , said Quilp , 'but sometimes he hides on the left , ready for a spring . 
He's uncertain in that respect . 
Mind you take care of yourself . 
I'll never forgive you if you don't . 
At length , however , he got quit of the place , and was out of hearing . 
The dwarf shut himself up again , and sprang once more into his hammock . 
In eight days' time , the sessions commenced . 
To him succeeds Sarah , who in like manner is easy to be managed by Mr Brass's gentleman , but very obdurate to Kit's . 
, and therefore lets her go , in some confusion . 
Then , Mr Brass's gentleman calls Richard Swiveller , and Richard Swiveller appears accordingly . 
Wherefore , he begins by requesting the officer to be quite sure that this witness kisses the book , then goes to work at him , tooth and nail . 
just over the way , repeats Mr Brass's gentleman , with a glance at the court . 
, says Mr Brass's gentleman , with a nod of the head , insinuating that the dock is Mr Swiveller's legitimate sphere of action 'and attend to me . 
You were waiting about here , yesterday , in expectation that this trial was coming on . 
You dined over the way . 
'And a very pretty witness YOU are ! Down sits Mr Brass's gentleman . 
Kit's gentleman , not knowing how the matter really stands , is afraid to pursue the subject . 
Judge , jury and spectators have visions of his lounging about , with an ill looking , large whiskered , dissolute young fellow of six feet high . 
The reality is , little Jacob , with the calves of his legs exposed to the open air , and himself tied up in a shawl . 
Nobody knows the truth everybody believes a falsehood and all because of the ingenuity of Mr Brass's gentleman . 
Then come the witnesses to character , and here Mr Brass's gentleman shines again . 
The jury think so too , and find Kit guilty . 
He is taken off , humbly protesting his innocence . 
, and a sad interview ensues . 
The newspaper reading turnkey has told them all . 
He don't think it will be transportation for life , because there's time to prove the good character yet , and that is sure to serve him . 
He wonders what he did it for . 
'He never did it ! cries Kit's mother . 
'Well , says the turnkey , 'I won't contradict you . 
It's all one , now , whether he did it or not . 
Kit's mother can reach his hand through the bars , and she clasps it God , and those to whom he has given such tenderness , only know in how much agony . 
Kit bids her keep a good heart , and , under pretence of having the children lifted up to kiss him , prays Barbara's mother in a whisper to take her home . 
'Some friend will rise up for us , mother , cried Kit , 'I am sure . 
If not now , before long . 
My innocence will come out , mother , and I shall be brought back again I feel confidence in that . 
Well Richard took her home . 
And what astonishing absurdities in the way of quotation from song and poem he perpetrated on the road , no man knows . 
wait at the door while he went in for 'change . 
'Money ? cried Brass , taking out his purse . 
'Ha ha ! To be sure , Mr Richard , to be sure , sir . 
You haven't change for a five pound note , have you sir ? 'No , returned Dick , shortly . 
'Oh ! said Brass , 'here's the very sum . 
You're very welcome I'm sure . 
Mr Richard , sir Dick , who had by this time reached the door , turned round . 
'You needn't , said Brass , 'trouble yourself to come back any more , Sir . 
I hope you'll look in to see us now and then . 
Sally , Sir , will be delighted I'm sure . 
She's extremely sorry to lose you , Mr Richard , but a sense of her duty to society reconciles her . 
An amazing creature that , sir ! You'll find the money quite correct , I think . 
There's a cracked window sir , but I've not made any deduction on that account . 
Whenever we part with friends , Mr Richard , let us part liberally . 
He only took it under his arm , however , and marched out of the office in profound silence . 
He paid the coachman , and turned his back on Bevis Marks , big with great designs for the comforting of Kit's mother and the aid of Kit himself . 
But the lives of gentlemen devoted to such pleasures as Richard Swiveller , are extremely precarious . 
The spiritual excitement of the last fortnight , working upon a system affected in no slight degree by the spirituous excitement of some years , proved a little too much for him . 
That very night , Mr Richard was seized with an alarming illness , and in twenty four hours was stricken with a raging fever . 
Happening , in the midst of these cogitations , to raise his hand , he was astonished to find how heavy it seemed , and yet how thin and light it really was . 
Still , he felt indifferent and happy and having no curiosity to pursue the subject , remained in the same waking slumber until his attention was attracted by a cough . 
This made him doubt whether he had locked his door last night , and feel a little surprised at having a companion in the room . 
He was rambling in imagination on these terraces , and had quite lost himself among them indeed , when he heard the cough once more . 
The walks shrunk into stripes again at the sound , and raising himself a little in the bed , and holding the curtain open with one hand , he looked out . 
'I'm dreaming , thought Richard , 'that's clear . 
When I went to bed , my hands were not made of egg shells and now I can almost see through 'em . 
If this is not a dream , I have woke up , by mistake , in an Arabian Night , instead of a London one . 
But I have no doubt I'm asleep . 
Here the small servant had another cough . 
'Very remarkable ! thought Mr Swiveller . 
'I never dreamt such a real cough as that before . 
I don't know , indeed , that I ever dreamt either a cough or a sneeze . 
Perhaps it's part of the philosophy of dreams that one never does . 
There's another and another I say ! I'm dreaming rather fast ! For the purpose of testing his real condition , Mr Swiveller , after some reflection , pinched himself in the arm . 
'Queerer still ! he thought . 
'I came to bed rather plump than otherwise , and now there's nothing to lay hold of . 
'It's an Arabian Night that's what it is , said Richard . 
'I'm in Damascus or Grand Cairo . 
'Arabian Night , certainly , thought Mr Swiveller 'they always clap their hands instead of ringing the bell . 
'Marchioness , said Mr Swiveller , thoughtfully , 'be pleased to draw nearer . 
felt his own eyes affected likewise . 
'I begin to infer , from your manner , and these appearances , Marchioness , said Richard after a pause , and smiling with a trembling lip , 'that I have been ill . 
'You just have ! replied the small servant , wiping her eyes . 
'And haven't you been a talking nonsense ! 'Oh ! said Dick . 
'Very ill , Marchioness , have I been ? 'Dead , all but , replied the small servant . 
'I never thought you'd get better . 
Thank Heaven you have ! Mr Swiveller was silent for a long while . 
By and bye , he began to talk again , inquiring how long he had been there . 
'Three weeks to morrow , replied the servant . 
'Three what ? said Dick . 
'Weeks , returned the Marchioness emphatically 'three long , slow weeks . 
The bare thought of having been in such extremity , caused Richard to fall into another silence , and to lie flat down again , at his full length . 
the doctor had left word he might refresh himself when he awoke . 
Having cleared away , and disposed everything comfortably about him again , she sat down at the table to take her own tea . 
'Marchioness , said Mr Swiveller , 'how's Sally ? The small servant screwed her face into an expression of the very uttermost entanglement of slyness , and shook her head . 
'What , haven't you seen her lately ? said Dick . 
'Seen her ! cried the small servant . 
'Bless you , I've run away ! Mr Swiveller immediately laid himself down again quite flat , and so remained for about five minutes . 
By slow degrees he resumed his sitting posture after that lapse of time , and inquired 'And where do you live , Marchioness ? 'Live ! cried the small servant . 
'Here ! 'Oh ! said Mr Swiveller . 
And with that he fell down flat again , as suddenly as if he had been shot . 
'And so , said Dick , 'you have run away ? 'Yes , said the Marchioness , 'and they've been a tizing of me . 
'Been I beg your pardon , said Dick 'what have they been doing ? 'Been a tizing of me tizing you know in the newspapers , rejoined the Marchioness . 
'Aye , aye , said Dick , 'advertising ? The small servant nodded , and winked . 
Her eyes were so red with waking and crying , that the Tragic Muse might have winked with greater consistency . 
'Tell me , said he , 'how it was that you thought of coming here . 
But one morning , when I was 'Was near a keyhole ? suggested Mr Swiveller , observing that she faltered . 
So I run away that night , and come here , and told 'em you was my brother , and they believed me , and I've been here ever since . 
'This poor little Marchioness has been wearing herself to death ! cried Dick . 
'No I haven't , she returned , 'not a bit of it . 
Don't you mind about me . 
I like sitting up , and I've often had a sleep , bless you , in one of them chairs . 
'Liverer indeed ! said Dick thoughtfully . 
'It's well I am a liverer . 
I strongly suspect I should have died , Marchioness , but for you . 
'The doctor , she told him , 'said you was to be kept quite still , and there was to be no noise nor nothing . 
Now , take a rest , and then we'll talk again . 
I'll sit by you , you know . 
If you shut your eyes , perhaps you'll go to sleep . 
You'll be all the better for it , if you do . 
Richard Swiveller being indeed fatigued , fell into a slumber , and waking in about half an hour , inquired what time it was . 
'Just gone half after six , replied his small friend , helping him to sit up again . 
'Has he gone ? asked Dick 'his mother how is she , what has become of her ? His nurse shook her head , and answered that she knew nothing about them . 
'But , if I thought , said she , very slowly , 'that you'd keep quiet , and not put yourself into another fever , I could tell you but I won't now . 
'Yes , do , said Dick . 
'Oh ! would it though ! rejoined the small servant , with a horrified look . 
'I know better than that . 
Wait till you're better and then I'll tell you . 
What had already fallen from her , however , had not only piqued his curiosity , but seriously alarmed him , wherefore he urged her to tell him the worst at once . 
'Oh there's no worst in it , said the small servant . 
'It hasn't anything to do with you . 
'Has it anything to do with is it anything you heard through chinks or keyholes and that you were not intended to hear ? asked Dick , in a breathless state . 
'Yes , replied the small servant . 
'In in Bevis Marks ? pursued Dick hastily . 
'Conversations between Brass and Sally ? 'Yes , cried the small servant again . 
'But if you begin to do that , said the small servant , 'I'll leave off . 
And so I tell you . 
'You can't leave off , till you have gone on , said Dick . 
'And do go on , there's a darling . 
Speak , sister , speak . 
Miss Sally used to keep the key of the kitchen door in her pocket , and she always come down at night to take away the candle and rake out the fire . 
I was terrible afraid of being kept like this , because if there was a fire , I thought they might forget me and only take care of themselves you know . 
Here , Mr Swiveller made a violent demonstration with his legs . 
But the small servant immediately pausing in her talk , he subsided again , and pleading a momentary forgetfulness of their compact , entreated her to proceed . 
'They kept me very short , said the small servant . 
Did you ever taste orange peel and water ? Mr Swiveller replied that he had never tasted that ardent liquor and once more urged his friend to resume the thread of her narrative . 
Mr Swiveller gathered up his knees so as to make a great cone of the bedclothes , and conveyed into his countenance an expression of the utmost concern . 
But the small servant pausing , and holding up her finger , the cone gently disappeared , though the look of concern did not . 
'There was him and her , said the small servant , 'a sittin' by the fire , and talking softly together . 
Then does it signify , she says , about ruining this Kit when Quilp desires it ? It certainly does not signify , says Mr Brass . 
We'll agree that way , then , he says . 
Kit's coming to morrow morning , I know . 
While he's up stairs , you'll get out of the way , and I'll clear off Mr Richard . 
Having Kit alone , I'll hold him in conversation , and put this property in his hat . 
I'll manage so , besides , he says , 'that Mr Richard shall find it there , and be the evidence . 
And if that don't get Christopher out of Mr Quilp's way , and satisfy Mr Quilp's grudges , he says , the Devil's in it . 
'How could it be ? replied his nurse . 
'I was almost afraid to think about it , and hoped the young man would be let off . 
'You mustn't think of such a thing , cried his nurse . 
'I must indeed , said the patient , looking round the room . 
'Whereabouts are my clothes ? 'Oh , I'm so glad you haven't got any , replied the Marchioness . 
'Ma'am ! said Mr Swiveller , in great astonishment . 
'I've been obliged to sell them , every one , to get the things that was ordered for you . 
But don't take on about that , urged the Marchioness , as Dick fell back upon his pillow . 
'You're too weak to stand , indeed . 
'I am afraid , said Richard dolefully , 'that you're right . 
It was very possible that Mr Abel had not yet left the office . 
Armed with these slender powers , she hurried away , commissioned to bring either old Mr Garland or Mr Abel , bodily , to that apartment . 
'It's embarrassing , said Mr Swiveller , 'in case of fire even an umbrella would be something but you did quite right , dear Marchioness . 
So the Marchioness dried her eyes with the backs of her hands , and , stealing softly up the steps , peeped in through the glass door . 
With this purpose she slipped out again , and crossing the road , sat down upon a door step just opposite . 
She had hardly taken this position , when there came dancing up the street , with his legs all wrong , and his head everywhere by turns , a pony . 
'Oh ! you're a precious creatur ! said the man who didn't venture by the bye to come out in his true colours until he was safe on the pavement . 
'I wish I had the rewarding of you I do . 
'What has he been doing ? said Mr Abel , tying a shawl round his neck as he came down the steps . 
'He's enough to fret a man's heart out , replied the hostler . 
'He's a very good fellow if you know how to manage him . 
This is the first time he has been out , this long while , for he has lost his old driver and wouldn't stir for anybody else , till this morning . 
The lamps are right , are they ? That's well . 
Be here to take him to morrow , if you please . 
Good night ! And , after one or two strange plunges , quite of his own invention , the pony yielded to Mr Abel's mildness , and trotted gently off . 
All this time Mr Chuckster had been standing at the door , and the small servant had been afraid to approach . 
She had nothing for it now , therefore , but to run after the chaise , and to call to Mr Abel to stop . 
Being out of breath when she came up with it , she was unable to make him hear . 
The case was desperate for the pony was quickening his pace . 
'Oh I've run such a way after you ! 'What do you want with me ? said Mr Abel . 
'How did you come here ? 'I got in behind , replied the Marchioness . 
'Oh please drive on , sir don't stop and go towards the City , will you ? And oh do please make haste , because it's of consequence . 
There's somebody wants to see you there . 
He sent me to say would you come directly , and that he knowed all about Kit , and could save him yet , and prove his innocence . 
'What do you tell me , child ? 'The truth , upon my word and honour I do . 
But please to drive on quick , please ! I've been such a time gone , he'll think I'm lost . 
Mr Abel involuntarily urged the pony forward . 
'See ! It's the room up there , said the Marchioness , pointing to one where there was a faint light . 
His regard for Kit , however , overcame every other consideration . 
He was not a little surprised to find himself conducted into a dimly lighted sick chamber , where a man was sleeping tranquilly in bed . 
'An't it nice to see him lying there so quiet ? said his guide , in an earnest whisper . 
'Oh ! you'd say it was , if you had only seen him two or three days ago . 
Mr Abel made no answer , and , to say the truth , kept a long way from the bed and very near the door . 
His guide , who appeared to understand his reluctance , trimmed the candle , and taking it in her hand , approached the bed . 
As she did so , the sleeper started up , and he recognised in the wasted face the features of Richard Swiveller . 
'Why , how is this ? said Mr Abel kindly , as he hurried towards him . 
'You have been ill ? 'Very , replied Dick . 
You might have chanced to hear of your Richard on his bier , but for the friend I sent to fetch you . 
Another shake of the hand , Marchioness , if you please . 
Mr Abel seemed rather astonished to hear of the quality of his guide , and took a chair by the bedside . 
'I have sent for you , Sir , said Dick 'but she told you on what account ? 'She did . 
I am quite bewildered by all this . 
I really don't know what to say or think , replied Mr Abel . 
'You'll say that presently , retorted Dick . 
'Marchioness , take a seat on the bed , will you ? Now , tell this gentleman all that you told me and be particular . 
Don't you speak another word , Sir . 
The story was repeated it was , in effect , exactly the same as before , without any deviation or omission . 
Richard Swiveller kept his eyes fixed on his visitor during its narration , and directly it was concluded , took the word again . 
'You have heard it all , and you'll not forget it . 
I'm too giddy and too queer to suggest anything but you and your friends will know what to do . 
After this long delay , every minute is an age . 
If ever you went home fast in your life , go home fast to night . 
Don't stop to say one word to me , but go . 
She will be found here , whenever she's wanted and as to me , you're pretty sure to find me at home , for a week or two . 
There are more reasons than one for that . 
Marchioness , a light ! If you lose another minute in looking at me , sir , I'll never forgive you ! Mr Abel needed no more remonstrance or persuasion . 
'That's right ! said Dick 'and hearty of him and I honour him from this time . 
But get some supper and a mug of beer , for I am sure you must be tired . 
Do have a mug of beer . 
It will do me as much good to see you take it as if I might drink it myself . 
Nothing but this assurance could have prevailed upon the small nurse to indulge in such a luxury . 
Mr Swiveller was by that time murmuring in his sleep , 'Strew then , oh strew , a bed of rushes . 
Here will we stay , till morning blushes . 
Good night , Marchioness ! CHAPTER On awaking in the morning , Richard Swiveller became conscious , by slow degrees , of whispering voices in his room . 
He lost no time in letting them know that this precaution was unnecessary , and all four gentlemen directly approached his bedside . 
Old Mr Garland was the first to stretch out his hand , and inquire how he felt . 
'And that is , said Dick , returning the pressure of Mr Garland's hand , 'that you answer me this question truly , before I take a bit or drop . 
Is it too late ? 'For completing the work you began so well last night ? returned the old gentleman . 
Set your mind at rest on that point . 
It is not , I assure you . 
At length and to say the truth before very long Mr Swiveller had despatched as much toast and tea as in that stage of his recovery it was discreet to let him have . 
To these various attentions , Mr Swiveller submitted in a kind of grateful astonishment beyond the reach of language . 
, he turned his face away for some few moments , and shook hands heartily with the air . 
'Gentlemen , said Dick , rousing himself from this pause , and turning round again , 'you'll excuse me . 
Men who have been brought so low as I have been , are easily fatigued . 
I am fresh again now , and fit for talking . 
'if you could make the Marchioness yonder , a Marchioness , in real , sober earnest , returned Dick , 'I'd thank you to get it done off hand . 
'It's chiefly on that account that we have come just now , said the single gentleman , 'for you will have another visitor presently . 
We feared you would be anxious unless you knew from ourselves what steps we intended to take , and therefore came to you before we stirred in the matter . 
'Gentlemen , returned Dick , 'I thank you . 
Anybody in the helpless state that you see me in , is naturally anxious . 
Don't let me interrupt you , sir . 
Meaning hers , of course . 
You'll agree with us , that to give him even the most distant chance of escape , if we could help it , would be monstrous . 
You say with us , no doubt , if somebody must escape , let it be any one but he . 
'Yes , returned Dick , 'certainly . 
That is if somebody must but upon my word , I'm unwilling that Anybody should . 
If we could do that , she might go scot free for aught I cared . 
But it was in vain to urge them to adopt some other course . 
The communication performed its errand so well , that within ten minutes of the messenger's return and report of its delivery , Miss Brass herself was announced . 
'Pray ma'am , said the single gentleman , whom she found alone in the room , 'take a chair . 
'You did not expect to see me ? said the single gentleman . 
'I didn't think much about it , returned the beauty . 
'I supposed it was business of some kind or other . 
If it's about the apartments , of course you'll give my brother regular notice , you know or money . 
You're a responsible party , and in such a case lawful money and lawful notice are pretty much the same . 
'I am obliged to you for your good opinion , retorted the single gentleman , 'and quite concur in these sentiments . 
But that is not the subject on which I wish to speak with you . 
'Then just state the particulars , will you ? I suppose it's professional business ? 'Why , it is connected with the law , certainly . 
'Very well , returned Miss Brass . 
'My brother and I are just the same . 
I can take any instructions , or give you any advice . 
'As there are other parties interested besides myself , said the single gentleman , rising and opening the door of an inner room , 'we had better confer together . 
Miss Brass is here , gentlemen . 
Her brother Sampson under such circumstances would certainly have evinced some confusion or anxiety , but she all composure pulled out the tin box , and calmly took a pinch of snuff . 
'Who found her ? demanded Sarah hastily . 
'We did , ma'am we three . 
Only last night , or you would have heard from us before . 
Prove it , will you that's all . 
You have found her , you say . 
that you have found the most artful , lying , pilfering , devilish little minx that was ever born . 
Have you got her here ? she added , looking sharply round . 
'No , she is not here at present , returned the Notary . 
'But she is quite safe . 
'I hope so , replied the Notary . 
Now , you know the pains and penalties you are liable to , and so I need not dilate upon them , but I have a proposal to make to you . 
For his sake , Miss Brass , do us the favour to reveal the whole history of this affair . 
, but it is a necessity to which we are reduced , and I recommend it to you as a matter of the very best policy . 
Time , said Mr Witherden , pulling out his watch , 'in a business like this , is exceedingly precious . 
Favour us with your decision as speedily as possible , ma'am . 
The charming creature was opening her lips to speak in reply , when the door was hastily opened too , and the head of Sampson Brass was thrust into the room . 
'Excuse me , said the gentleman hastily . 
'Sarah , said Brass , 'hold your tongue if you please , and let me speak . 
But though I am unfortunate nay , gentlemen , criminal , if we are to use harsh expressions in a company like this still , I have my feelings like other men . 
I have heard of a poet , who remarked that feelings were the common lot of all . 
If he could have been a pig , gentlemen , and have uttered that sentiment , he would still have been immortal . 
'If you're not an idiot , said Miss Brass harshly , 'hold your peace . 
'Sarah , my dear , returned her brother , 'thank you . 
But I know what I am about , my love , and will take the liberty of expressing myself accordingly . 
'He shuns me , said Sampson , 'even when I would , as I may say , heap coals of fire upon his head . 
Since then , I have been listening . 
'If you're not mad , interposed Miss Sally , 'stop there , and say no more . 
'Sarah , my dear , rejoined Brass with undiminished politeness , 'I thank you kindly , but will still proceed . 
Now , my dear Sir , cried Brass , seeing that the Notary was about to interrupt him , 'suffer me to speak , I beg . 
Mr Witherden was silent , and Brass went on . 
If you look from that , to my face , you will wonder what could have been the cause of all these scratches . 
And if from them to my hat , how it came into the state in which you see it . 
Gentlemen , said Brass , striking the hat fiercely with his clenched hand , 'to all these questions I answer Quilp ! The three gentlemen looked at each other , but said nothing . 
He gives me the cold shoulder on this very matter as if he had had nothing to do with it , instead of being the first to propose it . 
Brass stood smirking for a little while , as if he had propounded some choice conundrum and then said 'To be short with you , then , it leads me to this . 
It's clear to me that I am done for . 
Therefore , if anybody is to split , I had better be the person and have the advantage of it . 
Sarah , my dear , comparatively speaking you're safe . 
I relate these circumstances for my own profit . 
He concluded thus 'Now , gentlemen , I am not a man who does things by halves . 
Being in for a penny , I am ready , as the saying is , to be in for a pound . 
You must do with me what you please , and take me where you please . 
If you wish to have this in writing , we'll reduce it into manuscript immediately . 
You will be tender with me , I am sure . 
I am quite confident you will be tender with me . 
You are men of honour , and have feeling hearts . 
I yielded from necessity to Quilp , for though necessity has no law , she has her lawyers . 
I yield to you from necessity too from policy besides and because of feelings that have been a pretty long time working within me . 
He has done as much by me , for many and many a day . 
Having now arrived at the conclusion of his discourse , Sampson checked the current of his wrath , kissed his glove again , and smiled as only parasites and cowards can . 
Besides you you're disappointed , Sarah , and , not knowing what you say , expose yourself . 
'Yes , you pitiful dastard , retorted the lovely damsel , 'I understand you . 
You feared that I should be beforehand with you . 
But do you think that I would have been enticed to say a word ! I'd have scorned it , if they had tried and tempted me for twenty years . 
'You think so , Sarah , you think so perhaps but you would have acted quite different , my good fellow . 
You will not have forgotten that it was a maxim with Foxey our revered father , gentlemen Always suspect everybody . 
And therefore I've done it myself , and spared you the trouble as well as the shame . 
The shame , gentlemen , added Brass , allowing himself to be slightly overcome , 'if there is any , is mine . 
It's better that a female should be spared it . 
Still , the doubt may be gently insinuated . 
, he would probably have found himself much better off in the end . 
The three gentlemen spoke together apart , for a few moments . 
Dear me ! Mr Brass found himself so exceedingly affected , at this point , that he could say or do nothing more until some refreshment arrived . 
Having partaken of it , pretty freely for one in his agitated state , he sat down to write . 
She continued to pace up and down until she was quite tired , and then fell asleep on a chair near the door . 
It has been since supposed , with some reason , that this slumber was a sham or feint , as she contrived to slip away unobserved in the dusk of the afternoon . 
In whatever state she walked away , she certainly did not walk back again . 
Mention having been made of the dusk of the afternoon , it will be inferred that Mr Brass's task occupied some time in the completion . 
, would no doubt procure Kit's free pardon and liberation without delay . 
Unmindful of her stealthy tread , her victim holds his course in fancied triumph . 
Mrs Garland had gone home some time since , but Mr Abel was still sitting with him . 
The idea of any professional intelligence from a gentleman connected with legal matters , appeared to afford Richard any thing but a pleasing anticipation . 
Perhaps he connected it in his own mind with one or two outstanding accounts , in reference to which he had already received divers threatening letters . 
His countenance fell as he replied , 'Certainly , sir . 
I hope it's not anything of a very disagreeable nature , though ? 'if I thought it so , I should choose some better time for communicating it , replied the Notary . 
It may do a thoughtless , careless man , good , to know that . 
Dick thanked him , and said he hoped it would . 
'I have been making some inquiries about you , said Mr Witherden , 'little thinking that I should find you under such circumstances as those which have brought us together . 
You are the nephew of Rebecca Swiveller , spinster , deceased , of Cheselbourne in Dorsetshire . 
of five and twenty thousand pounds . 
As it is , you have fallen into an annuity of one hundred and fifty pounds a year but I think I may congratulate you even upon that . 
'Sir , said Dick , sobbing and laughing together , 'you may . 
, Mr Quilp remained shut up in his hermitage , undisturbed by any suspicion , and extremely well satisfied with the result of his machinations . 
Being engaged in the adjustment of some accounts an occupation to which the silence and solitude of his retreat were very favourable he had not strayed from his den for two whole days . 
The third day of his devotion to this pursuit found him still hard at work , and little disposed to stir abroad . 
The figure head had not yet disappeared , but remained in its old place . 
The day , in the highest and brightest quarters of the town , was damp , dark , cold and gloomy . 
In that low and marshy spot , the fog filled every nook and corner with a thick dense cloud . 
Every object was obscure at one or two yards' distance . 
The mist , though sluggish and slow to move , was of a keenly searching kind . 
No muffling up in furs and broadcloth kept it out . 
It seemed to penetrate into the very bones of the shrinking wayfarers , and to rack them with cold and pains . 
Everything was wet and clammy to the touch . 
The warm blaze alone defied it , and leaped and sparkled merrily . 
The dwarf's humour , as we know , was to have a fireside to himself and when he was disposed to be convivial , to enjoy himself alone . 
At this moment , a low knocking at the cabin door arrested his attention . 
When it had been twice or thrice repeated , he softly opened the little window , and thrusting his head out , demanded who was there . 
'Only me , Quilp , replied a woman's voice . 
'Only you ! cried the dwarf , stretching his neck to obtain a better view of his visitor . 
'And what brings you here , you jade ? How dare you approach the ogre's castle , eh ? 'I have come with some news , rejoined his spouse . 
'Don't be angry with me . 
'Is it good news , pleasant news , news to make a man skip and snap his fingers ? said the dwarf . 
'Is the dear old lady dead ? 'I don't know what news it is , or whether it's good or bad , rejoined his wife . 
'Then she's alive , said Quilp , 'and there's nothing the matter with her . 
Go home again , you bird of evil note , go home ! 'I have brought a letter , cried the meek little woman . 
'Toss it in at the window here , and go your ways , said Quilp , interrupting her , 'or I'll come out and scratch you . 
'No , but please , Quilp do hear me speak , urged his submissive wife , in tears . 
'Please do ! 'Speak then , growled the dwarf with a malicious grin . 
'Be quick and short about it . 
But please , she added , as her husband stretched out his hand for it , 'please let me in . 
You don't know how wet and cold I am , or how many times I have lost my way in coming here through this thick fog . 
Let me dry myself at the fire for five minutes . 
I'll go away directly you tell me to , Quilp . 
Upon my word I will . 
Mrs Quilp obeyed right willingly , and , kneeling down before the fire to warm her hands , delivered into his a little packet . 
'I'm glad you're wet , said Quilp , snatching it , and squinting at her . 
I'm glad you lost your way . 
I'm glad your eyes are red with crying . 
It does my heart good to see your little nose so pinched and frosty . 
'Oh Quilp ! sobbed his wife . 
'How cruel it is of you ! 'Did she think I was dead ? said Quilp , wrinkling his face into a most extraordinary series of grimaces . 
'So ! That little job being disposed of , said the dwarf , coolly , 'I'll read my letter . 
Humph ! he muttered , looking at the direction . 
'I ought to know this writing . 
Beautiful Sally ! Opening it , he read , in a fair , round , legal hand , as follows 'Sammy has been practised upon , and has broken confidence . 
It has all come out . 
You had better not be in the way , for strangers are going to call upon you . 
They have been very quiet as yet , because they mean to surprise you . 
I am not to be found anywhere . 
If I was you , I wouldn't either . 
'Too easy a death , too short , too quick but the river runs close at hand . 
'Such a bloodless cur ! said Quilp , rubbing his hands very slowly , and pressing them tight together . 
'I thought his cowardice and servility were the best guarantee for his keeping silence . 
'There ! said the dwarf , pulling him in . 
Don't come here to morrow , for this place will be shut up . 
Come back no more till you hear from me or see me . 
Do you mind ? Tom nodded sulkily , and beckoned Mrs Quilp to lead the way . 
'As for you , said the dwarf , addressing himself to her , 'ask no questions about me , make no search for me , say nothing concerning me . 
I shall not be dead , mistress , and that'll comfort you . 
He'll take care of you . 
'Has anything happened ? cried his wife . 
'Oh ! Do tell me that ? 'Yes , snarled the dwarf . 
What matter which ? I have told you what to do . 
Woe betide you if you fail to do it , or disobey me by a hair's breadth . 
Will you go ! 'I am going , I'll go directly but , faltered his wife , 'answer me one question first . 
Has this letter any connexion with dear little Nell ? I must ask you that I must indeed , Quilp . 
You cannot think what days and nights of sorrow I have had through having once deceived that child . 
I don't know what harm I may have brought about , but , great or little , I did it for you , Quilp . 
My conscience misgave me when I did it . 
'It will be a good night for travelling anonymously , he said , as he returned slowly , being pretty well breathed with his run . 
We may look better here . 
This is too hospitable and free . 
By a great exertion of strength , he closed the two old gates , which were deeply sunken in the mud , and barred them with a heavy beam . 
That done , he shook his matted hair from about his eyes , and tried them . 
'The fence between this wharf and the next is easily climbed , said the dwarf , when he had taken these precautions . 
'There's a back lane , too , from there . 
That shall be my way out . 
A man need know his road well , to find it in this lovely place to night . 
I need fear no unwelcome visitors while this lasts , I think . 
, he returned to his lair and , after musing for some time over the fire , busied himself in preparations for a speedy departure . 
This time , Sampson , this moment when all had gone on so well , was so nicely chosen ! It was so thoughtful of you , so penitent , so good . 
Setting it down abruptly , and resuming his preparations , he went on with his soliloquy . 
'There's Sally , he said , with flashing eyes 'the woman has spirit , determination , purpose was she asleep , or petrified ? She could have stabbed him poisoned him safely . 
She might have seen this coming on . 
And you , sweet Kit , honest Kit , virtuous , innocent Kit , look to yourself . 
Where I hate , I bite . 
I hate you , my darling fellow , with good cause , and proud as you are to night , I'll have my turn . 
What's that ? A knocking at the gate he had closed . 
A loud and violent knocking . 
Then , a pause as if those who knocked had stopped to listen . 
Then , the noise again , more clamorous and importunate than before . 
'So soon ! said the dwarf . 
'And so eager ! I am afraid I shall disappoint you . 
It's well I'm quite prepared . 
Sally , I thank you ! As he spoke , he extinguished the candle . 
The noise at the gate still continuing , he felt his way to the door , and stepped into the open air . 
At that moment the knocking ceased . 
Nothing was to be heard in that deserted place , but , at intervals , the distant barkings of dogs . 
The sound was far away now in one quarter , now answered in another nor was it any guide , for it often came from shipboard , as he knew . 
'If I could find a wall or fence , said the dwarf , stretching out his arms , and walking slowly on , 'I should know which way to turn . 
He answered the shout with a yell , which seemed to make the hundred fires that danced before his eyes tremble and flicker , as if a gust of wind had stirred them . 
It was of no avail . 
The strong tide filled his throat , and bore him on , upon its rapid current . 
The hull of a ship ! He could touch its smooth and slippery surface with his hand . 
One loud cry , now but the resistless water bore him down before he could give it utterance , and , driving him under it , carried away a corpse . 
And there it lay alone . 
The sky was red with flame , and the water that bore it there had been tinged with the sullen light as it flowed along . 
The place the deserted carcass had left so recently , a living man , was now a blazing ruin . 
There was something of the glare upon its face . 
They are awaiting him , he knows . 
He fears he will die of joy , before he gets among them . 
They have prepared him for this , all day . 
He is not to be carried off to morrow with the rest , they tell him first . 
By degrees they let him know that doubts have arisen , that inquiries are to be made , and perhaps he may be pardoned after all . 
At last , the evening being come , they bring him to a room where some gentlemen are assembled . 
Foremost among them is his good old master , who comes and takes him by the hand . 
He hears that his innocence is established , and that he is pardoned . 
He cannot see the speaker , but he turns towards the voice , and in trying to answer , falls down insensible . 
They recover him again , and tell him he must be composed , and bear this like a man . 
Somebody says he must think of his poor mother . 
It is because he does think of her so much , that the happy news had overpowered him . 
They crowd about him , and tell him that the truth has gone abroad , and that all the town and country ring with sympathy for his misfortunes . 
He has no ears for this . 
His thoughts , as yet , have no wider range than home . 
Does she know it ? what did she say ? who told her ? He can speak of nothing else . 
They make him drink a little wine , and talk kindly to him for a while , until he is more collected , and can listen , and thank them . 
He is free to go . 
Mr Garland thinks , if he feels better , it is time they went away . 
The gentlemen cluster round him , and shake hands with him . 
As they come through the dismal passages , some officers of the jail who are in waiting there , congratulate him , in their rough way , on his release . 
The newsmonger is of the number , but his manner is not quite hearty there is something of surliness in his compliments . 
He looks upon Kit as an intruder , as one who has obtained admission to that place on false pretences , who has enjoyed a privilege without being duly qualified . 
He may be a very good sort of young man , he thinks , but he has no business there , and the sooner he is gone , the better . 
The last door shuts behind them . 
It seems wider and more busy than it used to be . 
The night is bad , and yet how cheerful and gay in his eyes ! One of the gentlemen , in taking leave of him , pressed some money into his hand . 
He has not counted it but when they have gone a few paces beyond the box for poor Prisoners , he hastily returns and drops it in . 
Mr Garland has a coach waiting in a neighbouring street , and , taking Kit inside with him , bids the man drive home . 
At first , they can only travel at a foot pace , and then with torches going on before , because of the heavy fog . 
But there is no stopping then , for the old gentleman speaks stoutly to him , the horses mend their pace , and they are already at the garden gate . 
Next minute , they are at the door . 
There is a noise of tongues , and tread of feet , inside . 
Kit rushes in , and finds his mother clinging round his neck . 
'Oh ! but is it him indeed ? and Barbara's mother says 'To be sure it is , my dear there's nothing the matter now . 
It is the crowning circumstance of his earnest , heartfelt reception and Kit fairly puts his arm round Whisker's neck and hugs him . 
But how comes Barbara to trip in there ? and how smart she is again ! she has been at her glass since she recovered . 
Blushing little Barbara ! It may be that Kit has caressed the pony enough it may be that there are even better things to caress than ponies . 
He leaves him for Barbara at any rate , and hopes she is better . 
Barbara is a great deal better . 
She is afraid and here Barbara looks down and blushes more that he must have thought her very foolish . 
'Not at all , says Kit . 
Barbara is glad of that , and coughs Hem ! just the slightest cough possible not more than that . 
What a discreet pony when he chooses ! He is as quiet now as if he were of marble . 
He has a very knowing look , but that he always has . 
'We have hardly had time to shake hands , Barbara , says Kit . 
Why , she is trembling now ! Foolish , fluttering Barbara ! Arm's length ? The length of an arm is not much . 
Barbara's was not a long arm , by any means , and besides , she didn't hold it out straight , but bent a little . 
Kit was so near her when they shook hands , that he could see a small tiny tear , yet trembling on an eyelash . 
It was natural that he should look at it , unknown to Barbara . 
It was natural that Barbara should raise her eyes unconsciously , and find him out . 
Was it natural that at that instant , without any previous impulse or design , Kit should kiss Barbara ? He did it , whether or no . 
Barbara said 'for shame , but let him do it too twice . 
'For a journey , sir ! cried Kit . 
'In company with me and my friend in the next room . 
Can you guess its purpose ? Kit turned paler yet , and shook his head . 
I think you do already , said his master . 
But Mr Garland , instead of saying 'Try again , as Kit had made sure he would , told him very seriously , that he had guessed right . 
'The place of their retreat is indeed discovered , he said , 'at last . 
And that is our journey's end . 
'And well , I I trust she will be soon . 
She has been weak and ailing , as I learn , but she was better when I heard this morning , and they were full of hope . 
Sit you down , and you shall hear the rest . 
Scarcely venturing to draw his breath , Kit did as he was told . 
, and how this brother lived a long way off , in a country place , with an old clergyman who had been his early friend . 
, and had every one experienced his charity and benevolence . 
Nor was he alone excited and eager . 
Before he had been up a quarter of an hour the whole house were astir and busy . 
Everybody hurried to do something towards facilitating the preparations . 
The single gentleman , it is true , could do nothing himself , but he overlooked everybody else and was more locomotive than anybody . 
The work of packing and making ready went briskly on , and by daybreak every preparation for the journey was completed . 
Yes there was , though . 
Barbara was busy , to be sure , but so much the better Kit could help her , and that would pass away the time better than any means that could be devised . 
Now , Barbara , if the truth must . 
'But for such a purpose , returned Kit . 
'You'll say she has the sweetest and beautifullest face you ever saw , I know , said Kit , rubbing his hands . 
'I'm sure you'll say that . 
Barbara tossed her head again . 
'What's the matter , Barbara ? said Kit . 
And Barbara pouted not sulkily , or in an ugly manner , but just enough to make her look more cherry lipped than ever . 
There is no school in which a pupil gets on so fast , as that in which Kit became a scholar when he gave Barbara the kiss . 
He saw what Barbara meant now he had his lesson by heart all at once she was the book there it was before him , as plain as print . 
Barbara didn't see why it was of course , at all . 
Kit was sure she must . 
Would she think again ? Certainly , Barbara would think again . 
No , she didn't see why it was of course . 
She didn't understand what Christopher meant . 
I was always thinking of you , in my troubles . 
I should have been a great deal more miserable than I was , if it hadn't been for you . 
'When I want you to be pleased to see Miss Nell , it's only because I like you to be pleased with what pleases me that's all . 
As to her , Barbara , I think I could almost die to do her service , but you would think so too , if you knew her as I do . 
I am sure you would . 
Barbara was touched , and sorry to have appeared indifferent . 
'I have been used , you see , said Kit , 'to talk and think of her , almost as if she was an angel . 
I think of seeing her happy , and with friends about her , and brought up as she deserves , and as she ought to be . 
If I'm the better for that and I don't think I'm the worse I am grateful to her for it , and love and honour her the more . 
Simultaneously with the travelling equipage , arrived Mr Chuckster in a hackney cab , with certain papers and supplies of money for the single gentleman , into whose hands he delivered them . 
'Snobby's in this , I see , Sir ? he said to Mr Abel Garland . 
'I thought he wasn't in the last trip because it was expected that his presence wouldn't be acceptable to the ancient buffalo . 
'To whom , Sir ? demanded Mr Abel . 
'To the old gentleman , returned Mr Chuckster , slightly abashed . 
'Our client prefers to take him now , said Mr Abel , drily . 
'Ah ! thought Mr Chuckster , looking out of window , 'anybody but me ! Snobby before me , of course . 
He didn't happen to take that particular five pound note , but I have not the smallest doubt that he's always up to something of that sort . 
I always said it , long before this came out . 
, that gentleman was suddenly seized with a strong interest in the proceedings , which impelled him to swagger down the garden , and take up his position at a convenient ogling distance . 
This is a favourite attitude in the polite circles , and , accompanied with a graceful whistling , has been known to do immense execution . 
It was a bitter day . 
A keen wind was blowing , and rushed against them fiercely bleaching the hard ground , shaking the white frost from the trees and hedges , and whirling it away like dust . 
But little cared Kit for weather . 
There was a freedom and freshness in the wind , as it came howling by , which , let it cut never so sharp , was welcome . 
The harder the gusts , the better progress they appeared to make . 
All day long , it blew without cessation . 
The night was clear and starlight , but the wind had not fallen , and the cold was piercing . 
Meantime the two gentlemen inside , who were little disposed to sleep , beguiled the time with conversation . 
Of the former they had many , of the latter few none perhaps beyond that indefinable uneasiness which is inseparable from suddenly awakened hope , and protracted expectation . 
'I can be , if I am interested and if not interested , I should still try to appear so . 
Why do you ask ? 'I have a short narrative on my lips , rejoined his friend , 'and will try you with it . 
Pausing for no reply , he laid his hand on the old gentleman's sleeve , and proceeded thus 'There were once two brothers , who loved each other dearly . 
There was a disparity in their ages some twelve years . 
I am not sure but they may insensibly have loved each other the better for that reason . 
Wide as the interval between them was , however , they became rivals too soon . 
The deepest and strongest affection of both their hearts settled upon one object . 
'The youngest there were reasons for his being sensitive and watchful was the first to find this out . 
I will not tell you what misery he underwent , what agony of soul he knew , how great his mental struggle was . 
He had been a sickly child . 
I may not dwell on all he did , to make the poor , weak creature love him , or my tale would have no end . 
But when the time of trial came , the younger brother's heart was full of those old days . 
Heaven strengthened it to repay the sacrifices of inconsiderate youth by one of thoughtful manhood . 
He left his brother to be happy . 
The truth never passed his lips , and he quitted the country , hoping to die abroad . 
'The elder brother married her . 
She was in Heaven before long , and left him with an infant daughter . 
You may judge with what devotion he who lost that mother almost in the winning , clung to this girl , her breathing image . 
She grew to womanhood , and gave her heart to one who could not know its worth . 
Well ! Her fond father could not see her pine and droop . 
He might be more deserving than he thought him . 
He surely might become so , with a wife like her . 
He joined their hands , and they were married . 
of her ill usage and unhappiness , she never , but for him , bewailed her fate . 
'The elder brother , grandfather to these two children , was now a broken man crushed and borne down , less by the weight of years than by the heavy hand of sorrow . 
With the wreck of his possessions , he began to trade in pictures first , and then in curious ancient things . 
He had entertained a fondness for such matters from a boy , and the tastes he had cultivated were now to yield him an anxious and precarious subsistence . 
The wayward boy soon spurned the shelter of his roof , and sought associates more congenial to his taste . 
The old man and the child dwelt alone together . 
He had no thought for himself in this . 
His fear was for the child . 
It was a spectre in his house , and haunted him night and day . 
'The younger brother had been a traveller in many countries , and had made his pilgrimage through life alone . 
reproach and slight for doing that which had wrung his heart , and cast a mournful shadow on his path . 
'The rest , said Mr Garland , pressing his hand after a pause , 'I know . 
'Yes , rejoined his friend , 'we may spare ourselves the sequel . 
You know the poor result of all my search . 
Pray God , we are not too late again ! 'We cannot be , said Mr Garland . 
'This time we must succeed . 
'I have believed and hoped so , returned the other . 
'I try to believe and hope so still . 
But a heavy weight has fallen on my spirits , my good friend , and the sadness that gathers over me , will yield to neither hope nor reason . 
A dismal night , indeed ! Hark ! how the wind is howling ! CHAPTER Day broke , and found them still upon their way . 
Since leaving home , they had halted here and there for necessary refreshment , and had frequently been delayed , especially in the night time , by waiting for fresh horses . 
They had made no other stoppages , but the weather continued rough , and the roads were often steep and heavy . 
It would be night again before they reached their place of destination . 
Though his impatience , and that of his fellow travellers , rapidly increased as the day waned , the hours did not stand still . 
The short daylight of winter soon faded away , and it was dark again when they had yet many miles to travel . 
By degrees it lulled and died away , and then it came on to snow . 
The flakes fell fast and thick , soon covering the ground some inches deep , and spreading abroad a solemn stillness . 
The rolling wheels were noiseless , and the sharp ring and clatter of the horses' hoofs , became a dull , muffled tramp . 
The life of their progress seemed to be slowly hushed , and something death like to usurp its place . 
He could descry objects enough at such times , but none correctly . 
Now , a tall church spire appeared in view , which presently became a tree , a barn , a shadow on the ground , thrown on it by their own bright lamps . 
A wall , a ruin , a sturdy gable end , would rise up in the road and , when they were plunging headlong at it , would be the road itself . 
He descended slowly from his seat for his limbs were numbed when they arrived at a lone posting house , and inquired how far they had to go to reach their journey's end . 
It was a late hour in such by places , and the people were abed but a voice answered from an upper window , Ten miles . 
The distance seemed interminable , and the walk was most laborious . 
As each was thinking within himself that the driver must have lost his way , a church bell , close at hand , struck the hour of midnight , and the carriage stopped . 
It had moved softly enough , but when it ceased to crunch the snow , the silence was as startling as if some great noise had been replaced by perfect stillness . 
'This is the place , gentlemen , said the driver , dismounting from his horse , and knocking at the door of a little inn . 
'Halloa ! Past twelve o'clock is the dead of night here . 
The knocking was loud and long , but it failed to rouse the drowsy inmates . 
All continued dark and silent as before . 
They fell back a little , and looked up at the windows , which were mere black patches in the whitened house front . 
The house might have been deserted , or the sleepers dead , for any air of life it had about it . 
They spoke together with a strange inconsistency , in whispers unwilling to disturb again the dreary echoes they had just now raised . 
'Let us go on , said the younger brother , 'and leave this good fellow to wake them , if he can . 
I cannot rest until I know that we are not too late . 
Let us go on , in the name of Heaven ! They did so , leaving the postilion to order such accommodation as the house afforded , and to renew his knocking . 
She would be glad to see her bird , he knew . 
The road wound gently downward . 
As they proceeded , they lost sight of the church whose clock they had heard , and of the small village clustering round it . 
The knocking , which was now renewed , and which in that stillness they could plainly hear , troubled them . 
They wished the man would forbear , or that they had told him not to break the silence until they returned . 
The old church tower , clad in a ghostly garb of pure cold white , again rose up before them , and a few moments brought them close beside it . 
A venerable building grey , even in the midst of the hoary landscape . 
An ancient sun dial on the belfry wall was nearly hidden by the snow drift , and scarcely to be known for what it was . 
Time itself seemed to have grown dull and old , as if no day were ever to displace the melancholy night . 
There was a faint light in a chamber window not far off , and Kit ran towards that house to ask their way . 
''Tis hard weather this , he grumbled , 'and not a night to call me up in . 
My trade is not of that kind that I need be roused from bed . 
The business on which folks want me , will keep cold , especially at this season . 
What do you want ? 'I would not have roused you , if I had known you were old and ill , said Kit . 
'Old ! repeated the other peevishly . 
'How do you know I am old ? Not so old as you think , friend , perhaps . 
As to being ill , you will find many young people in worse case than I am . 
More's the pity that it should be so not that I should be strong and hearty for my years , I mean , but that they should be weak and tender . 
I ask your pardon though , said the old man , 'if I spoke rather rough at first . 
My eyes are not good at night that's neither age nor illness they never were and I didn't see you were a stranger . 
The right hand path , friend , is the road . 
Looking up , he saw a very little creature at a neighbouring window . 
'What is that ? cried the child , earnestly . 
'Has my dream come true ? Pray speak to me , whoever that is , awake and up . 
'But no , that can never be ! How could it be Oh ! how could it ! 'I guess his meaning , said the sexton . 
'To bed again , poor boy ! 'Ay ! cried the child , in a burst of despair . 
'I knew it could never be , I felt too sure of that , before I asked ! But , all to night , and last night too , it was the same . 
I never fall asleep , but that cruel dream comes back . 
'Try to sleep again , said the old man , soothingly . 
'It will go in time . 
'No no , I would rather that it staid cruel as it is , I would rather that it staid , rejoined the child . 
'I am not afraid to have it in my sleep , but I am so sad so very , very sad . 
The old man blessed him , the child in tears replied Good night , and Kit was again alone . 
He hurried back , moved by what he had heard , though more by the child's manner than by anything he had said , as his meaning was hidden from him . 
They took the path indicated by the sexton , and soon arrived before the parsonage wall . 
Turning round to look about them when they had got thus far , they saw , among some ruined buildings at a distance , one single solitary light . 
It shone from what appeared to be an old oriel window , and being surrounded by the deep shadows of overhanging walls , sparkled like a star . 
'What light is that ! said the younger brother . 
'It is surely , said Mr Garland , 'in the ruin where they live . 
I see no other ruin hereabouts . 
Obtaining the permission he desired , he darted off with breathless eagerness , and , still carrying the birdcage in his hand , made straight towards the spot . 
It was not easy to hold that pace among the graves , and at another time he might have gone more slowly , or round by the path . 
Unmindful of all obstacles , however , he pressed forward without slackening his speed , and soon arrived within a few yards of the window . 
He approached as softly as he could , and advancing so near the wall as to brush the whitened ivy with his dress , listened . 
There was no sound inside . 
The church itself was not more quiet . 
Touching the glass with his cheek , he listened again . 
No. And yet there was such a silence all around , that he felt sure he could have heard even the breathing of a sleeper , if there had been one there . 
A strange circumstance , a light in such a place at that time of night , with no one near it . 
A curtain was drawn across the lower portion of the window , and he could not see into the room . 
But there was no shadow thrown upon it from within . 
Again and again he listened again and again the same wearisome blank . 
Leaving the spot with slow and cautious steps , and skirting the ruin for a few paces , he came at length to a door . 
But there was a curious noise inside . 
It was difficult to determine what it was . 
It bore a resemblance to the low moaning of one in pain , but it was not that , being far too regular and constant . 
Now it seemed a kind of song , now a wail seemed , that is , to his changing fancy , for the sound itself was never changed or checked . 
It was unlike anything he had ever heard and in its tone there was something fearful , chilling , and unearthly . 
The listener's blood ran colder now than ever it had done in frost and snow , but he knocked again . 
There was no answer , and the sound went on without any interruption . 
He laid his hand softly upon the latch , and put his knee against the door . 
It was secured on the inside , but yielded to the pressure , and turned upon its hinges . 
He saw the glimmering of a fire upon the old walls , and entered . 
The attitude was that of one who sought the heat . 
It was , and yet was not . 
The heavy door had closed behind him on his entrance , with a crash that made him start . 
The figure neither spoke , nor turned to look , nor gave in any other way the faintest sign of having heard the noise . 
The form was that of an old man , his white head akin in colour to the mouldering embers upon which he gazed . 
He , and the failing light and dying fire , the time worn room , the solitude , the wasted life , and gloom , were all in fellowship . 
Ashes , and dust , and ruin ! Kit tried to speak , and did pronounce some words , though what they were he scarcely knew . 
Still the same terrible low cry went on still the same rocking in the chair the same stricken figure was there , unchanged and heedless of his presence . 
He had his hand upon the latch , when something in the form distinctly seen as one log broke and fell , and , as it fell , blazed up arrested it . 
He returned to where he had stood before advanced a pace another another still . 
Another , and he saw the face . 
Yes ! Changed as it was , he knew it well . 
'Master ! he cried , stooping on one knee and catching at his hand . 
No one but your old servant . 
You know me now , I am sure ? Miss Nell where is she where is she ? 'They all say that ! cried the old man . 
'They all ask the same question . 
A spirit ! 'Where is she ? demanded Kit . 
'Oh tell me but that , but that , dear master ! 'She is asleep yonder in there . 
'Thank God ! 'Aye ! Thank God ! returned the old man . 
'I have prayed to Him , many , and many , and many a livelong night , when she has been asleep , He knows . 
Hark ! Did she call ? 'I heard no voice . 
Do you tell me that you don't hear THAT ? He started up , and listened again . 
he returned , bearing in his hand a lamp . 
'She is still asleep , he whispered . 
She did not call unless she did so in her slumber . 
I feared the light might dazzle her eyes and wake her , so I brought it here . 
Then , as if forgetting his motive in the very action , he turned away and put it down again . 
'She is sleeping soundly , he said 'but no wonder . 
Angel hands have strewn the ground deep with snow , that the lightest footstep may be lighter yet and the very birds are dead , that they may not wake her . 
She used to feed them , Sir . 
Though never so cold and hungry , the timid things would fly from us . 
They never flew from her ! Again he stopped to listen , and scarcely drawing breath , listened for a long , long time . 
She was always gentle with children . 
The wildest would do her bidding she had a tender way with them , indeed she had ! Kit had no power to speak . 
His eyes were filled with tears . 
'Her little homely dress , her favourite ! cried the old man , pressing it to his breast , and patting it with his shrivelled hand . 
'She will miss it when she wakes . 
They have hid it here in sport , but she shall have it she shall have it . 
I would not vex my darling , for the wide world's riches . 
See here these shoes how worn they are she kept them to remind her of our last long journey . 
You see where the little feet went bare upon the ground . 
They told me , afterwards , that the stones had cut and bruised them . 
She never told me that . 
He pressed them to his lips , and having carefully put them back again , went on communing with himself looking wistfully from time to time towards the chamber he had lately visited . 
'She was not wont to be a lie abed but she was well then . 
When she is well again , she will rise early , as she used to do , and ramble abroad in the healthy morning time . 
I often tried to track the way she had gone , but her small footstep left no print upon the dewy ground , to guide me . 
Who is that ? Shut the door . 
These were the schoolmaster , and the bachelor . 
The former held a light in his hand . 
He had , it seemed , but gone to his own cottage to replenish the exhausted lamp , at the moment when Kit came up and found the old man alone . 
Of the strangers , he took no heed whatever . 
He had seen them , but appeared quite incapable of interest or curiosity . 
The younger brother stood apart . 
The bachelor drew a chair towards the old man , and sat down close beside him . 
After a long silence , he ventured to speak . 
'Another night , and not in bed ! he said softly 'I hoped you would be more mindful of your promise to me . 
Why do you not take some rest ? 'Sleep has left me , returned the old man . 
'It is all with her ! 'It would pain her very much to know that you were watching thus , said the bachelor . 
'You would not give her pain ? 'I am not so sure of that , if it would only rouse her . 
She has slept so very long . 
And yet I am rash to say so . 
It is a good and happy sleep eh ? 'Indeed it is , returned the bachelor . 
'Indeed , indeed , it is ! 'That's well ! and the waking faltered the old man . 
Happier than tongue can tell , or heart of man conceive . 
They watched him as he rose and stole on tiptoe to the other chamber where the lamp had been replaced . 
They listened as he spoke again within its silent walls . 
They looked into the faces of each other , and no man's cheek was free from tears . 
He came back , whispering that she was still asleep , but that he thought she had moved . 
It was her hand , he said a little a very , very little but he was pretty sure she had moved it perhaps in seeking his . 
He had known her do that , before now , though in the deepest sleep the while . 
And when he had said this , he dropped into his chair again , and clasping his hands above his head , uttered a cry never to be forgotten . 
The poor schoolmaster motioned to the bachelor that he would come on the other side , and speak to him . 
They gently unlocked his fingers , which he had twisted in his grey hair , and pressed them in their own . 
'He will hear me , said the schoolmaster , 'I am sure . 
He will hear either me or you if we beseech him . 
She would , at all times . 
'I will hear any voice she liked to hear , cried the old man . 
'I love all she loved ! 'I know you do , returned the schoolmaster . 
'I am certain of it . 
Think of her think of all the sorrows and afflictions you have shared together of all the trials , and all the peaceful pleasures , you have jointly known . 
I think of nothing else . 
'I would have you think of nothing else to night of nothing but those things which will soften your heart , dear friend , and open it to old affections and old times . 
It is so that she would speak to you herself , and in her name it is that I speak now . 
'You do well to speak softly , said the old man . 
'We will not wake her . 
I should be glad to see her eyes again , and to see her smile . 
There is a smile upon her young face now , but it is fixed and changeless . 
I would have it come and go . 
That shall be in Heaven's good time . 
We will not wake her . 
'She was always cheerful very cheerful , cried the old man , looking steadfastly at him . 
'There was ever something mild and quiet about her , I remember , from the first but she was of a happy nature . 
'We have heard you say , pursued the schoolmaster , 'that in this and in all goodness , she was like her mother . 
You can think of , and remember her ? He maintained his steadfast look , but gave no answer . 
'Or even one before her , said the bachelor . 
Say , that you could remember , long ago , another child who loved you dearly , you being but a child yourself . 
still , dear brother , we are not apart , and have that comfort in our great affliction . 
By little and little , the old man had drawn back towards the inner chamber , while these words were spoken . 
He pointed there , as he replied , with trembling lips . 
'You plot among you to wean my heart from her . 
You never will do that never while I have life . 
I have no relative or friend but her I never had I never will have . 
She is all in all to me . 
It is too late to part us now . 
Waving them off with his hand , and calling softly to her as he went , he stole into the room . 
They who were left behind , drew close together , and after a few whispered words not unbroken by emotion , or easily uttered followed him . 
They moved so gently , that their footsteps made no noise but there were sobs from among the group , and sounds of grief and mourning . 
There , upon her little bed , she lay at rest . 
The solemn stillness was no marvel now . 
No sleep so beautiful and calm , so free from trace of pain , so fair to look upon . 
She seemed a creature fresh from the hand of God , and waiting for the breath of life not one who had lived and suffered death . 
Her couch was dressed with here and there some winter berries and green leaves , gathered in a spot she had been used to favour . 
'When I die , put near me something that has loved the light , and had the sky above it always . 
Dear , gentle , patient , noble Nell was dead . 
Where were the traces of her early cares , her sufferings , and fatigues ? All gone . 
Sorrow was dead indeed in her , but peace and perfect happiness were born imaged in her tranquil beauty and profound repose . 
And still her former self lay there , unaltered in this change . 
So shall we know the angels in their majesty , after death . 
The old man held one languid arm in his , and had the small hand tight folded to his breast , for warmth . 
It was the hand she had stretched out to him with her last smile the hand that had led him on , through all their wanderings . 
She was dead , and past all help , or need of it . 
She had been dead two days . 
They were all about her at the time , knowing that the end was drawing on . 
She died soon after daybreak . 
They had read and talked to her in the earlier portion of the night , but as the hours crept on , she sunk to sleep . 
Waking , she never wandered in her mind but once , and that was of beautiful music which she said was in the air . 
Opening her eyes at last , from a very quiet sleep , she begged that they would kiss her once again . 
They did not know that she was dead , at first . 
She had spoken very often of the two sisters , who , she said , were like dear friends to her . 
She wished they could be told how much she thought about them , and how she had watched them as they walked together , by the river side at night . 
She would like to see poor Kit , she had often said of late . 
She wished there was somebody to take her love to Kit . 
And , even then , she never thought or spoke about him , but with something of her old , clear , merry laugh . 
He had a fancy , it seemed , that they had left her there alone and could not bear the thought . 
He told them of his dream again , and that it was of her being restored to them , just as she used to be . 
They let him have his wish and indeed he kept his word , and was , in his childish way , a lesson to them all . 
Up to that time , the old man had not spoken once except to her or stirred from the bedside . 
But , when he saw her little favourite , he was moved as they had not seen him yet , and made as though he would have him come nearer . 
Soothing him with his artless talk of her , the child persuaded him to take some rest , to walk abroad , to do almost as he desired him . 
They were to gather fresh leaves and berries for her bed . 
Some shook the old man kindly by the hand , some stood uncovered while he tottered by , and many cried 'God help him ! as he passed along . 
She could not tell , the woman said . 
'Why , you yourself you wear the colour too ? he said . 
'Windows are closed that never used to be by day . 
What does this mean ? Again the woman said she could not tell . 
'We must go back , said the old man , hurriedly . 
'We must see what this is . 
'No , no , cried the child , detaining him . 
Our way is to the old green lane , where she and I so often were , and where you found us , more than once , making those garlands for her garden . 
Do not turn back ! 'Where is she now ? said the old man . 
'Do you not know ? returned the child . 
'Did we not leave her , but just now ? 'True . 
He and his deaf assistant were sitting before the fire . 
Both rose up , on seeing who it was . 
The child made a hasty sign to them with his hand . 
It was the action of an instant , but that , and the old man's look , were quite enough . 
'Do you do you bury any one to day ) he said , eagerly . 
'No , no ! Who should we bury , Sir ? returned the sexton . 
'Aye , who indeed ! I say with you , who indeed ! 'It is a holiday with us , good Sir , returned the sexton mildly . 
'We have no work to do to day . 
'Why then , I'll go where you will , said the old man , turning to the child . 
'You're sure of what you tell me ? You would not deceive me ? I am changed , even in the little time since you last saw me . 
'Go thy ways with him , Sir , cried the sexton , 'and Heaven be with ye both ! 'I am quite ready , said the old man , meekly . 
'Come , boy , come and so submitted to be led away . 
Under the porch , where she had sat when Heaven in its mercy brought her to that peaceful spot , she passed again and the old church received her in its quiet shade . 
They carried her to one old nook , where she had many and many a time sat musing , and laid their burden softly on the pavement . 
The light streamed on it through the coloured window a window , where the boughs of trees were ever rustling in the summer , and where the birds sang sweetly all day long . 
With every breath of air that stirred among those branches in the sunshine , some trembling , changing light , would fall upon her grave . 
Earth to earth , ashes to ashes , dust to dust ! Many a young hand dropped in its little wreath , many a stifled sob was heard . 
Some and they were not a few knelt down . 
All were sincere and truthful in their sorrow . 
The service done , the mourners stood apart , and the villagers closed round to look into the grave before the pavement stone should be replaced . 
They saw the vault covered , and the stone fixed down . 
Of every tear that sorrowing mortals shed on such green graves , some good is born , some gentler nature comes . 
In the Destroyer's steps there spring up bright creations that defy his power , and his dark path becomes a way of light to Heaven . 
It was late when the old man came home . 
He was perfectly exhausted , and they were careful not to rouse him . 
The slumber held him a long time , and when he at length awoke the moon was shining . 
The younger brother , uneasy at his protracted absence , was watching at the door for his coming , when he appeared in the pathway with his little guide . 
He advanced to meet them , and tenderly obliging the old man to lean upon his arm , conducted him with slow and trembling steps towards the house . 
He repaired to her chamber , straight . 
Not finding what he had left there , he returned with distracted looks to the room in which they were assembled . 
From that , he rushed into the schoolmaster's cottage , calling her name . 
They followed close upon him , and when he had vainly searched it , brought him home . 
With such persuasive words as pity and affection could suggest , they prevailed upon him to sit among them and hear what they should tell him . 
The moment it had passed their lips , he fell down among them like a murdered man . 
For many hours , they had little hope of his surviving but grief is strong , and he recovered . 
Whatever power of thought or memory he retained , was all bound up in her . 
He never understood , or seemed to care to understand , about his brother . 
To every endearment and attention he continued listless . 
If they spoke to him on this , or any other theme save one he would hear them patiently for awhile , then turn away , and go on seeking as before . 
On that one theme , which was in his and all their minds , it was impossible to touch . 
Dead ! He could not hear or bear the word . 
The slightest hint of it would throw him into a paroxysm , like that he had had when it was first spoken . 
They bethought them of a removal from the scene of this last sorrow of trying whether change of place would rouse or cheer him . 
His brother sought the advice of those who were accounted skilful in such matters , and they came and saw him . 
Some of the number staid upon the spot , conversed with him when he would converse , and watched him as he wandered up and down , alone and silent . 
Move him where they might , they said , he would ever seek to get back there . 
His mind would run upon that spot . 
The boy , to whom he had submitted at first , had no longer any influence with him . 
At other times , he would entreat him not unkindly to be gone , and would not brook him near . 
They hastened there , and going softly to the door , espied him in the attitude of one who waited patiently . 
They did not disturb him then , but kept a watch upon him all that day . 
He did not return at the usual hour , and they went to seek him . 
He was lying dead upon the stone . 
CHAPTER The magic reel , which , rolling on before , has led the chronicler thus far , now slackens in its pace , and stops . 
It lies before the goal the pursuit is at an end . 
It remains but to dismiss the leaders of the little crowd who have borne us company upon the road , and so to close the journey . 
Foremost among them , smooth Sampson Brass and Sally , arm in arm , claim our polite attention . 
was referred to the judges for their decision , Sampson being meantime removed to his former quarters . 
Of Sally Brass , conflicting rumours went abroad . 
The body of Quilp being found though not until some days had elapsed an inquest was held on it near the spot where it had been washed ashore . 
The general supposition was that he had committed suicide , and , this appearing to be favoured by all the circumstances of his death , the verdict was to that effect . 
He was left to be buried with a stake through his heart in the centre of four lonely roads . 
It was rumoured afterwards that this horrible and barbarous ceremony had been dispensed with , and that the remains had been secretly given up to Tom Scott . 
But even here , opinion was divided for some said Tom dug them up at midnight , and carried them to a place indicated to him by the widow . 
It is probable that both these stories may have had their origin in the simple fact of Tom's shedding tears upon the inquest which he certainly did , extraordinary as it may appear . 
Being cast upon the world by his master's death , he determined to go through it upon his head and hands , and accordingly began to tumble for his bread . 
, he assumed the name of an Italian image lad , with whom he had become acquainted and afterwards tumbled with extraordinary success , and to overflowing audiences . 
Little Mrs Quilp never quite forgave herself the one deceit that lay so heavy on her conscience , and never spoke or thought of it but with bitter tears . 
Her husband had no relations , and she was rich . 
He had made no will , or she would probably have been poor . 
Having married the first time at her mother's instigation , she consulted in her second choice nobody but herself . 
, and in due time the latter went into partnership with his friend the notary , on which occasion there was a dinner , and a ball , and great extent of dissipation . 
Unto this ball there happened to be invited the most bashful young lady that was ever seen , with whom Mr Abel happened to fall in love . 
HOW it happened , or how they found it out , or which of them first communicated the discovery to the other , nobody knows . 
was to kick his doctor . 
of her advancement , on his monthly visits to the governess , who looked upon him as a literary gentleman of eccentric habits , and of a most prodigious talent in quotation . 
Which gave Mr Swiveller frequent occasion to remark at divers subsequent periods that there had been a young lady saving up for him after all . 
To this retreat Mr Chuckster repaired regularly every Sunday to spend the day usually beginning with breakfast and here he was the great purveyor of general news and fashionable intelligence . 
was to her an attached and domesticated husband . 
And they played many hundred thousand games of cribbage together . 
This defeat had its origin in the untoward detection of a new associate young Frederick Trent who thus became the unconscious instrument of their punishment and his own . 
But the stranger kept his own counsel until he returned home , and it was never claimed or cared for . 
But the humble village teacher was timid of venturing into the noisy world , and had become fond of his dwelling in the old churchyard . 
That friend single gentleman , or younger brother , which you will had at his heart a heavy sorrow but it bred in him no misanthropy or monastic gloom . 
He went forth into the world , a lover of his kind . 
, to halt where they had halted , sympathise where they had suffered , and rejoice where they had been made glad . 
Those who had been kind to them , did not escape his search . 
Kit's story having got abroad , raised him up a host of friends , and many offers of provision for his future life . 
Through the same kind agency , his mother was secured from want , and made quite happy . 
Thus , as Kit often said , his great misfortune turned out to be the source of all his subsequent prosperity . 
Nor was there wanting an exact facsimile and copy of little Jacob , as he appeared in those remote times when they taught him what oysters meant . 
Of course there was an Abel , own godson to the Mr Garland of that name and there was a Dick , whom Mr Swiveller did especially favour . 
The little group would often gather round him of a night and beg him to tell again that story of good Miss Nell who died . 
He sometimes took them to the street where she had lived but new improvements had altered it so much , it was not like the same . 
The old house had been long ago pulled down , and a fine broad road was in its place . 
At first he would draw with his stick a square upon the ground to show them where it used to stand . 
But he soon became uncertain of the spot , and could only say it was thereabouts , he thought , and these alterations were confusing . 
