Theresa is still preserved with all the first rigour of the reformation brought about by that illustrious woman . 
Extraordinary as this may seem , it is none the less true . 
The storms of many kinds which shook the first fifteen years of the nineteenth century spent their force before they reached those cliffs at so short a distance from the coast of Andalusia . 
The convent stands on the highest point of the crags at the uttermost end of the island . 
Any assault is made impossible by the dangerous reefs that stretch far out to sea , with the sparkling waves of the Mediterranean playing over them . 
The church itself , built by the munificence of a Spanish family , is the crowning edifice of the town . 
Its fine , bold front gives an imposing and picturesque look to the little city in the sea . 
Religion towering above daily life , to put men continually in mind of the End and the way , is in truth a thoroughly Spanish conception . 
There is sound and silence everywhere oftener still there is silence over all . 
The church is divided within into a sombre mysterious nave and narrow aisles . 
Outside there is simply the heavy wall structure , a solid mass of grey stone further strengthened by huge piers placed at intervals . 
The larger part of the nave and aisles was left for the townsfolk , who came and went and heard mass there . 
The General had asked for the mission to gratify private motives of curiosity , though never was curiosity more hopeless . 
This final attempt was a matter of conscience . 
The Carmelite convent on the island was the only nunnery in Spain which had baffled his search . 
And , indeed , however faint those so unaccountable presentiments might be , never was human passion more vehemently excited than the General's curiosity at that moment . 
So here are the facts in all their prosaic simplicity . 
The facts first , the emotions will follow . 
An hour after the General landed on the island , the royal authority was re established there . 
Some few Constitutional Spaniards who had found their way thither after the fall of Cadiz were allowed to charter a vessel and sail for London . 
So there was neither resistance nor reaction . 
But the change of government could not be effected in the little town without a mass , at which the two divisions under the General's command were obliged to be present . 
His hopes were cruelly dashed at once . 
Mass , it is true , was celebrated in state . 
But all the nuns had taken refuge in the organ loft . 
The sister who played the organ aroused such intense enthusiasm , that not a single man regretted that he had come to the service . 
Even the men in the ranks were delighted , and the officers were in ecstasy . 
As for the General , he was seemingly calm and indifferent . 
Strangely enough , the organ music seemed to belong to the school of Rossini , the musician who brings most human passion into his art . 
Some day his works , by their number and extent , will receive the reverence due to the Homer of music . 
Perhaps the soul of the great musician , so gloriously known to Europe , and the soul of this unknown executant had met in the intuitive apprehension of the same poetry . 
So at least thought two dilettanti officers who must have missed the Theatre Favart in Spain . 
At last in the Te Deum no one could fail to discern a French soul in the sudden change that came over the music . 
Joy for the victory of the Most Christian King evidently stirred this nun's heart to the depths . 
She was a Frenchwoman beyond mistake . 
A Spaniard's fingers would not have brought this warmth into a graceful tribute paid to the victorious arms of France . 
The musician's nationality was revealed . 
We find France everywhere , it seems , said one of the men . 
The General had left the church during the Te Deum he could not listen any longer . 
The suspicion aroused in the General's heart became all but a certainty with the vague reminiscence of a sad , delicious melody , the air of Fleuve du Tage . 
The General walked away down the steep street which led to the port , and only stopped when he could not hear the deep notes of the organ . 
Casting about for a plea for prolonging his stay , it at once occurred to him to make the most of this excuse , framed on the spur of the moment . 
This commonplace but very plausible stratagem relieved him of all responsibility for the time necessary to carry out his plans . 
The very next day , while the division was marching out of the town , the General went to the convent to be present at vespers . 
He found an empty church . 
The townsfolk , devout though they were , had all gone down to the quay to watch the embarkation of the troops . 
He felt glad to be the only man there . 
Was this singular warning heard and understood ? He thought so . 
It seemed to him that in the Magnificat the organ made response which was borne to him on the vibrating air . 
The nun's spirit found wings in music and fled towards him , throbbing with the rhythmical pulse of the sounds . 
Then , in all its might , the music burst forth and filled the church with warmth . 
The organ is in truth the grandest , the most daring , the most magnificent of all instruments invented by human genius . 
It is a whole orchestra in itself . 
It can express anything in response to a skilled touch . 
In those long vaulted aisles the melodies inspired by the sense of things divine are blent with a grandeur unknown before , are decked with new glory and might . 
And this wealth of holy things seemed to be flung down like a grain of incense upon the fragile altar raised to Love beneath the eternal throne of a jealous and avenging God . 
Indeed , in the joy of the nun there was little of that awe and gravity which should harmonise with the solemnities of the Magnificat . 
She had enriched the music with graceful variations , earthly gladness throbbing through the rhythm of each . 
In such brilliant quivering notes some great singer might strive to find a voice for her love , her melodies fluttered as a bird flutters about her mate . 
There were moments when she seemed to leap back into the past , to dally there now with laughter , now with tears . 
Her changing moods , as it were , ran riot . 
She was like a woman excited and happy over her lover's return . 
With a swift transition from the major to the minor , the organist told her hearer of her present lot . 
She gave the story of long melancholy broodings , of the slow course of her moral malady . 
How day by day she deadened the senses , how every night cut off one more thought , how her heart was slowly reduced to ashes . 
The sadness deepened shade after shade through languid modulations , and in a little while the echoes were pouring out a torrent of grief . 
Pathetic hope ! Then followed the Amen . 
No more Joy , no more tears in the air , no sadness , no regrets . 
The Amen was the return to God . 
Slowly the reverberations died away it seemed as if the church , but now so full of light , had returned to thick darkness . 
The General had been caught up and borne swiftly away by this strong winged spirit he had followed the course of its flight from beginning to end . 
He understood to the fullest extent the imagery of that burning symphony for him the chords reached deep and far . 
For him , as for the sister , the poem meant future , present , and past . 
And these three forms of poetry ascend to God , in whom all passion on earth finds its end . 
Was this her manner of offering up her love as a sacrifice to God ? Or was it Love exultant in triumph over God ? The questions were hard to answer . 
But one thing at least the General could not mistake in this heart , dead to the world , the fire of passion burned as fiercely as in his own . 
Vespers over , he went back to the alcalde with whom he was staying . 
There followed a longing to see her again , to contend with God for her , to snatch her away a rash scheme , which appealed to a daring nature . 
He went to bed , when the meal was over , to avoid questions to be alone and think at his ease and he lay absorbed by deep thought till day broke . 
He rose only to go to mass . 
The organ sounded , but it was another player , and not the nun of the last two days whose hands touched the keys . 
It was all colourless and cold for the General . 
It was like a golden or silver thread in dark frieze . 
It was she ! There could be no mistake . 
Parisienne now as ever , she had not laid coquetry aside when she threw off worldly adornments for the veil and the Carmelite's coarse serge . 
She who had affirmed her love last evening in the praise sent up to God , seemed now to say to her lover , Yes , it is I. I am here . 
My love is unchanged , but I am beyond the reach of love . 
You will hear my voice , my soul shall enfold you , and I shall abide here under the brown shroud in the choir from which no power on earth can tear me . 
You shall never see me more ! It is she indeed ! the General said to himself , raising his head . 
Storm was without , and calm within the sanctuary . 
The alcalde coming to join his guest found him in tears during the elevation , while the nun was singing , and brought him back to his house . 
Surprised to find so much piety in a French military man , the worthy magistrate invited the confessor of the convent to meet his guest . 
He informed himself as to the manner of life led by the holy women . 
Were they allowed to go out of the convent , or to see visitors ? Senor , replied the venerable churchman , the rule is strict . 
A woman cannot enter a monastery of the order of St . 
Bruno without a special permission from His Holiness , and the rule here is equally stringent . 
No man may enter a convent of Barefoot Carmelites unless he is a priest specially attached to the services of the house by the Archbishop . 
None of the nuns may leave the convent though the great Saint , St . 
Theresa , often left her cell . 
Now we are one of the principal houses , and consequently we have a Mother Superior here . 
Among other foreign sisters there is one Frenchwoman , Sister Theresa she it is who directs the music in the chapel . 
Oh ! said the General , with feigned surprise . 
She must have rejoiced over the victory of the House of Bourbon . 
I told them the reason of the mass they are always a little bit inquisitive . 
But Sister Theresa may have interests in France . 
Perhaps she would like to send some message or to hear news . 
I do not think so . 
She would have come to ask me . 
As a fellow countryman , I should be quite curious to see her , said the General . 
I will speak about it . 
How old is Sister Theresa ? enquired the lover . 
He dared not ask any questions of the priest as to the nun's beauty . 
She does not reckon years now , the good man answered , with a simplicity that made the General shudder . 
Next day before siesta , the confessor came to inform the French General that Sister Theresa and the Mother consented to receive him at the grating in the parlour before vespers . 
The General spent the siesta in pacing to and fro along the quay in the noonday heat . 
Thither the priest came to find him , and brought him to the convent by way of the gallery round the cemetery . 
Fountains , green trees , and rows of arcading maintained a cool freshness in keeping with the place . 
At the further end of the long gallery the priest led the way into a large room divided in two by a grating covered with a brown curtain . 
The ceiling consisted of bare unornamented joists and cross beams of ilex wood . 
Tumultuous as the General's feelings were , they took something of the melancholy of the place . 
He grew calm in that homely quiet . 
A sense of something vast as the tomb took possession of him beneath the chill unceiled roof . 
The monk's life is scarcely comprehensible . 
A man seems confessed a weakling in a monastery he was born to act , to live out a life of work he is evading a man's destiny in his cell . 
A woman has but one motive she is a woman still she betrothes herself to a Heavenly Bridegroom . 
Between him and the light stood a woman . 
Her face was hidden by the veil that drooped from the folds upon her head she was dressed according to the rule of the order in a gown of the colour become proverbial . 
An ice cold hand , belonging , no doubt , to the Mother Superior , held back the curtain . 
The General gave the enforced witness of their interview a searching glance , and met the dark , inscrutable gaze of an aged recluse . 
The Mother might have been a century old , but the bright , youthful eyes belied the wrinkles that furrowed her pale face . 
Mme la Duchesse , he began , his voice shaken with emotion , does your companion understand French ? The veiled figure bowed her head at the sound of his voice . 
There is no duchess here , she replied . 
It is Sister Theresa whom you see before you . 
She whom you call my companion is my mother in God , my superior here on earth . 
The words were so meekly spoken by the voice that sounded in other years amid harmonious surroundings of refined luxury , the voice of a queen of fashion in Paris . 
Such words from the lips that once spoke so lightly and flippantly struck the General dumb with amazement . 
The Holy Mother only speaks Latin and Spanish , she added . 
Dear Antoinette , make my excuses to her . 
My brother , she said , drawing her sleeve under her veil , perhaps to brush tears away , I am Sister Theresa . 
Do you know this gentleman ? she asked , with a keen glance . 
Go back to your cell , my daughter ! said the Mother imperiously . 
The Duchess went towards the door , but she turned back . 
Mother , she said , with dreadful calmness , the Frenchman is one of my brothers . 
Then stay , my daughter , said the Superior , after a pause . 
Oh ! how precious words , looks , and gestures became when love must baffle lynx eyes and tiger's claws ! Sister Theresa came back . 
I am committing mortal sin . 
I have told a lie . 
How many days of penance must expiate that lie ! But I shall endure it for your sake . 
Do not call me Antoinette , I implore you . 
Memories of the past hurt me . 
You must see no one here but Sister Theresa , a creature who trusts in the Divine mercy . 
She paused for a little , and then added , You must control yourself , my brother . 
Our Mother would separate us without pity if there is any worldly passion in your face , or if you allow the tears to fall from your eyes . 
The General bowed his head to regain self control when he looked up again he saw her face beyond the grating the thin , white , but still impassioned face of the nun . 
The wonderful hair in which she took such pride had been shaven there was a bandage round her forehead and about her face . 
An ascetic life had left dark traces about the eyes , which still sometimes shot out fevered glances their ordinary calm expression was but a veil . 
In a few words , she was but the ghost of her former self . 
Ah ! you that have come to be my life , you must come out of this tomb ! You were mine you had no right to give yourself , even to God . 
I have sought you all through the world . 
You have been in my thoughts at every moment for five years my life has been given to you . 
My friends , very powerful friends , as you know , have helped with all their might to search every convent in France , Italy , Spain , Sicily , and America . 
Love burned more brightly for every vain search . 
Again and again I made long journeys with a false hope I have wasted my life and the heaviest throbbings of my heart in vain under many a dark convent wall . 
I am not speaking of a faithfulness that knows no bounds , for what is it ? nothing compared with the infinite longings of my love . 
If your remorse long ago was sincere , you ought not to hesitate to follow me today . 
You forget that I am not free . 
The Duke is dead , he answered quickly . 
May heaven be open to him ! she cried with a quick rush of feeling . 
He was generous to me . 
But I did not mean such ties it was one of my sins that I was ready to break them all without scruple for you . 
Are you speaking of your vows ? the General asked , frowning . 
I did not think that anything weighed heavier with your heart than love . 
But do not think twice of it , Antoinette the Holy Father himself shall absolve you of your oath . 
I will surely go to Rome , I will entreat all the powers of earth if God could come down from heaven , I would Do not blaspheme . 
So do not fear the anger of God . 
Ah ! I would far rather hear that you would leave your prison for me that this very night you would let yourself down into a boat at the foot of the cliffs . 
And we would go away to be happy somewhere at the world's end , I know not where . 
And with me at your side , you should come back to life and health under the wings of love . 
You must not talk like this , said Sister Theresa you do not know what you are to me now . 
I love you far better than I ever loved you before . 
Every day I pray for you I see you with other eyes . 
My eternal life is all that trouble has left me to offer up to you . 
If you will follow me into solitude , I will hear no voice but yours , I will see no other face . 
Hush , Armand ! You are shortening the little time that we may be together here on earth . 
Antoinette , will you come with me ? I am never away from you . 
You do not love me you have never loved me Oh , my brother ! You do not wish to leave this tomb . 
You love my soul , do you say ? Very well , through you it will be lost forever . 
I shall make away with myself Mother ! Sister Theresa called aloud in Spanish , I have lied to you this man is my lover ! The curtain fell at once . 
The General , in his stupor , scarcely heard the doors within as they clanged . 
Ah ! she loves me still ! he cried , understanding all the sublimity of that cry of hers . 
She must be carried off . 
The General left the island , returned to headquarters , pleaded ill health , asked for leave of absence , and forthwith took his departure for France . 
And now for the incidents which brought the two personages in this Scene into their present relation to each other . 
The thing known in France as the Faubourg Saint Germain is neither a Quarter , nor a sect , nor an institution , nor anything else that admits of a precise definition . 
So , to begin with , the whole Faubourg is not within the Faubourg . 
In every age the great nobles , and the rich who always ape the great nobles , build their houses as far as possible from crowded streets . 
Their day's calculations never coincide the one class represents the expenditure , the other the receipts . 
Consequently their manners and customs are diametrically opposed . 
Nothing contemptuous is intended by this statement . 
An aristocracy is in a manner the intellect of the social system , as the middle classes and the proletariat may be said to be its organising and working power . 
Sint ut sunt , aut non sint , the grand words of the Jesuit , might be taken as a motto by the great in all countries . 
Equality may be a RIGHT , but no power on earth can convert it into FACT . 
It would be a good thing for France if this idea could be popularised . 
The benefits of political harmony are obvious to the least intelligent classes . 
Harmony is , as it were , the poetry of order , and order is a matter of vital importance to the working population . 
France is the one country in the world where a little phrase may bring about a great revolution . 
Whenever the masses have risen , it has been to bring men , affairs , and principles into agreement . 
France has been led astray many a time , but she is deluded , woman like , by generous ideas , by a glow of enthusiasm which at first outstrips sober reason . 
If they lack the strength for this , they perish as Rome perished , and Venice , and so many other states . 
Nations , like women , love strength in those who rule them they cannot give love without respect they refuse utterly to obey those of whom they do not stand in awe . 
An aristocracy fallen into contempt is a roi faineant , a husband in petticoats first it ceases to be itself , and then it ceases to be . 
The Faubourg Saint Germain failed to recognise the conditions of its being , while it would still have been easy to perpetuate its existence , and therefore was brought low for a time . 
And in some few families all this is realised . 
There are noble characters here and there in the Faubourg , but they are marked exceptions to a general rule of egoism which has been the ruin of this world within a world . 
There is a sort of moral fief held on a tenure of service rendered to the sovereign , and here in France the people are undoubtedly the sovereigns nowadays . 
The times are changed , and so are the weapons . 
A stout heart was enough in the days of old in our days he is required to have a capacious brain pan . 
Skill and knowledge and capital these three points mark out a social triangle on which the scutcheon of power is blazoned our modern aristocracy must take its stand on these . 
A fine theorem is as good as a great name . 
The Rothschilds , the Fuggers of the nineteenth century , are princes de facto . 
A great artist is in reality an oligarch he represents a whole century , and almost always he is a law to others . 
It inverted the terms of the proposition which called it into existence . 
And in our days those means of action must be living forces , and not historical memories . 
Perhaps this is a national defect . 
He is very far from heartless , but too often he prefers to listen to his intellect . 
The national instinct which brings the Frenchman to the front , the vanity that wastes his substance , is as much a dominant passion as thrift in the Dutch . 
For three centuries it swayed the noblesse , who , in this respect , were certainly pre eminently French . 
The scion of the Faubourg Saint Germain , beholding his material superiority , was fully persuaded of his intellectual superiority . 
At that time the party of the Faubourg Saint Germain was rather like an army without a base of operation . 
It had utterly failed to take advantage of the peace to plant itself in the heart of the nation . 
It sinned for want of learning its lesson , and through an utter incapability of regarding its interests as a whole . 
A future certainty was sacrificed to a doubtful present gain . 
This blunder in policy may perhaps be attributed to the following cause . 
The class isolation so strenuously kept up by the noblesse brought about fatal results during the last forty years even caste patriotism was extinguished by it , and rivalry fostered among themselves . 
could choose their chiefs and obey them in the hour of danger . 
As their power diminished , they grew less amenable to discipline and as in the last days of the Byzantine Empire , everyone wished to be emperor . 
They mistook their uniform weakness for uniform strength . 
Each family ruined by the Revolution and the abolition of the law of primogeniture thought only of itself , and not at all of the great family of the noblesse . 
It seemed to them that as each individual grew rich , the party as a whole would gain in strength . 
And herein lay their mistake . 
Money , likewise , is only the outward and visible sign of power . 
There was a certain intrinsic merit in all these people , but the merit was on the surface , and none of them were worth their face value . 
The most intelligent nation in the world perceived clearly that the restored nobles were organising everything for their own particular benefit . 
From that day the noblesse was doomed . 
And this was even more notably the case in . 
The Faubourg Saint Germain might very easily have led and amused the middle classes in days when people's heads were turned with distinctions , and art and science were all the rage . 
But the narrow minded leaders of a time of great intellectual progress all of them detested art and science . 
They had not even the wit to present religion in attractive colours , though they needed its support . 
The Faubourg scoffed at a minister if he was not gently born , and produced no one of gentle birth that was fit to be a minister . 
For their misfortune there was just precisely enough of their former wealth left them as a class to keep up their bitter pride . 
They were content with their past . 
Not one of them seriously thought of bidding the son of the house take up arms from the pile of weapons which the nineteenth century flings down in the market place . 
It was their place to carry out at Paris the programme which their seniors should have been following in the country . 
There are examples and lessons for the future in all this . 
And now it is easy to give a summary of this semi political survey . 
In short , however effete individuals might be , the party as a whole was none the less armed with all the great principles which lie at the roots of national existence . 
In the Emigration of there were some traces of a loftier feeling but in the Emigration of from Paris into the country there was nothing discernible but self interest . 
In every living organism the work of bringing the whole into harmony within itself is always going on . 
There was nothing either very frivolous or very serious about the woman of the Restoration . 
She was hypocritical as a rule in her passion , and compounded , so to speak , with its pleasures . 
Some few families led the domestic life of the Duchesse d'Orleans , whose connubial couch was exhibited so absurdly to visitors at the Palais Royal . 
Two or three kept up the traditions of the Regency , filling cleverer women with something like disgust . 
The great lady of the new school exercised no influence at all over the manners of the time and yet she might have done much . 
She might , at worst , have presented as dignified a spectacle as English women of the same rank . 
But she hesitated feebly among old precedents , became a bigot by force of circumstances , and allowed nothing of herself to appear , not even her better qualities . 
Not one among the Frenchwomen of that day had the ability to create a salon whither leaders of fashion might come to take lessons in taste and elegance . 
Their voices , which once laid down the law to literature , that living expression of a time , now counted absolutely for nought . 
Now when a literature lacks a general system , it fails to shape a body for itself , and dies out with its period . 
It is in the nature of things that the man should be identified with the company in which history finds him . 
This was a woman artificially educated , but in reality ignorant a woman whose instincts and feelings were lofty while the thought which should have controlled them was wanting . 
She squandered the wealth of her nature in obedience to social conventions she was ready to brave society , yet she hesitated till her scruples degenerated into artifice . 
Like some straight growing reed , she made a show of independence yet , like the reed , she was ready to bend to a strong hand . 
She talked much of religion , and had it not at heart , though she was prepared to find in it a solution of her life . 
She trusted nothing and no one , yet there were times when she quitted her sceptical attitude for a submissive credulity . 
She was wholly self contained she put herself proudly above the world and beneath the shelter of her name . 
had been married for about four years when the Restoration was finally consummated , which is to say , in . 
By that time the revolution of the Hundred Days had let in the light on the mind of Louis XVIII . 
The Duchesse de Langeais , a Navarreins by birth , came of a ducal house which had made a point of never marrying below its rank since the reign of Louis XIV . 
Every daughter of the house must sooner or later take a tabouret at Court . 
So , Antoinette de Navarreins , at the age of eighteen , came out of the profound solitude in which her girlhood had been spent to marry the Duc de Langeais's eldest son . 
The Ducs de Navarreins and de Langeais had been faithful throughout to the exiled Princes , nobly resisting all the temptations of glory under the Empire . 
The families of Langeais and Navarreins remained about the Court , condemned to perform the duties required by Court ceremonial amid the reproaches and sneers of the Liberal party . 
The Duke , moreover , besides his military duties , had a place at Court , to which he came during his term of waiting , leaving his major general in command . 
The Duke and Duchess were leading lives entirely apart , the world none the wiser . 
Their marriage of convention shared the fate of nearly all family arrangements of the kind . 
Two more antipathetic dispositions could not well have been found they were brought together they jarred upon each other there was soreness on either side then they were divided once for all . 
Then they went their separate ways , with a due regard for appearances . 
He recognised in her a spirit pre eminently proud , a cold heart , a profound submissiveness to the usages of the world , and a youthful loyalty . 
Under the eyes of great relations , with the light of a prudish and bigoted Court turned full upon the Duchess , his honour was safe . 
So the Duke calmly did as the grands seigneurs of the eighteenth century did before him , and left a young wife of two and twenty to her own devices . 
She herself did not reflect upon it . 
It was the time of the rejoicings over the Duc de Berri's marriage . 
The Court and the Faubourg roused itself from its listlessness and reserve . 
This was the real beginning of that unheard of splendour which the Government of the Restoration carried too far . 
At that time the Duchess , whether for reasons of her own , or from vanity , never appeared in public without a following of women equally distinguished by name and fortune . 
As queen of fashion she had her dames d'atours , her ladies , who modelled their manner and their wit on hers . 
They had been cleverly chosen . 
None of her satellites belonged to the inmost Court circle , nor to the highest level of the Faubourg Saint Germain but they had set their minds upon admission to those inner sanctuaries . 
Being as yet simple dominations , they wished to rise to the neighbourhood of the throne , and mingle with the seraphic powers in the high sphere known as le petit chateau . 
Thus surrounded , the Duchess's position was stronger and more commanding and secure . 
Her ladies defended her character and helped her to play her detestable part of a woman of fashion . 
She could laugh at men at her ease , play with fire , receive the homage on which the feminine nature is nourished , and remain mistress of herself . 
At Paris , in the highest society of all , a woman is a woman still she lives on incense , adulation , and honours . 
No beauty , however undoubted , no face , however fair , is anything without admiration . 
Flattery and a lover are proofs of power . 
And what is power without recognition ? Nothing . 
If the prettiest of women were left alone in a corner of a drawing room , she would droop . 
It was a day of small things , a cold prosaic era . 
Perhaps it takes a long time for a Restoration to become a Monarchy . 
Her tone and bearing and everything else about her imposed her will upon others . 
Her life was a sort of fever of vanity and perpetual enjoyment , which turned her head . 
She was daring enough in conversation she would listen to anything , corrupting the surface , as it were , of her heart . 
For women know how to say everything among themselves , and more of them are ruined by each other than corrupted by men . 
There came a moment when she discerned that not until a woman is loved will the world fully recognise her beauty and her wit . 
A lover constantly bears witness to her personal perfections . 
There was more than one demure feminine hypocrite to instruct her in the art of playing such dangerous comedies . 
So the Duchess had her court , and the number of her adorers and courtiers guaranteed her virtue . 
She was amiable and fascinating she flirted till the ball or the evening's gaiety was at an end . 
She was cold , indifferent , self contained again till the next day brought its renewed sensations , superficial as before . 
Two or three men were completely deceived , and fell in love in earnest . 
She laughed at them , she was utterly insensible . 
I am loved ! she told herself . 
He loves me ! The certainty sufficed her . 
In a friendship of this sort both sides are on their guard , and never lay their armour aside confidences are ingeniously indiscreet , and not unfrequently treacherous . 
Do introduce him he ought to be interesting . 
Nobody more tiresome and dull , dear . 
But he is the fashion . 
The Marquis was the only son of General de Montriveau , one of the ci devants who served the Republic nobly , and fell by Joubert's side at Novi . 
Bonaparte had placed his son at the school at Chalons , with the orphans of other generals who fell on the battlefield , leaving their children under the protection of the Republic . 
Armand de Montriveau left school with his way to make , entered the artillery , and had only reached a major's rank at the time of the Fontainebleau disaster . 
In his section of the service the chances of advancement were not many . 
The artillery was a separate corps in those days , and only came under Napoleon in action . 
Besides these general causes , other reasons , inherent in Armand de Montriveau's character , were sufficient in themselves to account for his tardy promotion . 
He was alone in the world . 
Like all shy men , he was habitually silent but his shyness sprang by no means from timidity it was a kind of modesty in him he found any demonstration of vanity intolerable . 
He was kindly but his expression was haughty and stern , and his face gained him this character . 
In everything he was rigorous as arithmetic he never permitted the slightest deviation from duty on any plausible pretext , nor blinked the consequences of a fact . 
People were afraid of Montriveau they respected him , but he was not very popular . 
Men may indeed allow you to rise above them , but to decline to descend as low as they can do is the one unpardonable sin . 
In their feeling towards loftier natures , there is a trace of hate and fear . 
Too much honour with them implies censure of themselves , a thing forgiven neither to the living nor to the dead . 
After the Emperor's farewells at Fontainebleau , Montriveau , noble though he was , was put on half pay . 
Perhaps the heads of the War Office took fright at uncompromising uprightness worthy of antiquity , or perhaps it was known that he felt bound by his oath to the Imperial Eagle . 
During the Hundred Days he was made a Colonel of the Guard , and left on the field of Waterloo . 
The scientific expedition was long and unfortunate . 
Physical strength , and a mind braced to endurance , enabled him to survive the horrors of that captivity but his miraculous escape well nigh exhausted his energies . 
When he reached the French colony at Senegal , a half dead fugitive covered with rags , his memories of his former life were dim and shapeless . 
The great sacrifices made in his travels were all forgotten like his studies of African dialects , his discoveries , and observations . 
One story will give an idea of all that he passed through . 
Once for several days the children of the sheikh of the tribe amused themselves by putting him up for a mark and flinging horses' knuckle bones at his head . 
Montriveau came back to Paris in a ruined man . 
He had no interest , and wished for none . 
He would have died twenty times over sooner than ask a favour of anyone he would not even press the recognition of his claims . 
His merits and adventures became known , however , through his acquaintances , among the principal men of science in Paris , and some few well read military men . 
Montriveau's position suddenly changed towards the end of that year . 
He had been a poor man , he was now rich or , externally at any rate , he had all the advantages of wealth . 
M. de Montriveau's name once more appeared in the army list with the rank of colonel he received his arrears of pay and passed into the Guards . 
All these favours , one after another , came to seek the Marquis de Montriveau he had asked for nothing however small . 
Friends had taken the steps for him which he would have refused to take for himself . 
After this , his habits were modified all at once contrary to his custom , he went into society . 
He was well received , everywhere he met with great deference and respect . 
His social success was great , precisely because he stood out in such strong contrast to the conventional faces which line the walls of Paris salons . 
He was , indeed , something quite new there . 
Terse of speech , like a hermit or a savage , his shyness was thought to be haughtiness , and people were greatly taken with it . 
He was something strange and great . 
Their Parisian's grimaces were lost upon M. de Montriveau his nature only responded to the sonorous vibration of lofty thought and feeling . 
For these reasons the Duchesse de Langeais's curiosity was no less lively than natural . 
The district that he wished to explore could only be reached on foot across a tract of desert . 
Only one of his guides knew the way no traveller had penetrated before into that part of the country , where the undaunted officer hoped to find a solution of several scientific problems . 
In spite of the representations made to him by the guide and the older men of the place , he started upon the formidable journey . 
Summoning up courage , already highly strung by the prospect of dreadful difficulties , he set out in the morning . 
That promise kept up his courage and gave him new strength . 
In spite of his sufferings , he continued his march , with some blasphemings against science he was ashamed to complain to his guide , and kept his pain to himself . 
After marching for a third of the day , he felt his strength failing , his feet were bleeding , he asked if they should reach the place soon . 
In an hour's time , said the guide . 
Armand braced himself for another hour's march , and they went on . 
I have made a mistake , he remarked coolly . 
I could not make out the track , it is so long since I came this way we are surely on it now , but we must push on for two hours . 
The man is right , thought M. de Montriveau . 
So he went on again , struggling to follow the pitiless native . 
It seemed as if he were bound to his guide by some thread like the invisible tie between the condemned man and the headsman . 
But the two hours went by , Montriveau had spent his last drops of energy , and the skyline was a blank , there were no palm trees , no hills . 
At last M. Montriveau recovered strength enough for a last curse . 
If I had not , you would not be even here . 
Do you want the truth ? Here it is . 
WE HAVE STILL ANOTHER FIVE HOURS' MARCH BEFORE US , AND WE CANNOT GO BACK . 
Sound yourself if you have not courage enough , here is my dagger . 
It lay only a hundred paces away a vast ledge of granite hid the glorious landscape . 
It seemed to Armand that he had taken a new lease of life . 
His guide , that giant in courage and intelligence , finished his work of devotion by carrying him across the hot , slippery , scarcely discernible track on the granite . 
Behind him lay the hell of burning sand , before him the earthly paradise of the most beautiful oasis in the desert . 
He was short , deep chested , and muscular as a lion . 
There was something of the despot about him , and an indescribable suggestion of the security of strength in his gait , bearing , and slightest movements . 
He seemed to know that his will was irresistible , perhaps because he wished for nothing unjust . 
There was a certain drawing in of the inner line of the lips which , to a close observer , indicated an ironical bent . 
She would prefer him above the others she would attach him to herself , display all her powers of coquetry for him . 
It was a fancy , such a merest Duchess's whim as furnished a Lope or a Calderon with the plot of the Dog in the Manger . 
She would not suffer another woman to engross him but she had not the remotest intention of being his . 
Nature had given the Duchess every qualification for the part of coquette , and education had perfected her . 
Women envied her , and men fell in love with her , not without reason . 
Nothing that can inspire love , justify it , and give it lasting empire was wanting in her . 
Her style of beauty , her manner , her voice , her bearing , all combined to give her that instinctive coquetry which seems to be the consciousness of power . 
Her great lady's grace , her most striking characteristic , had not destroyed the very French quick mobility of her person . 
There was an extraordinary fascination in her swift , incessant changes of attitude . 
She seemed as if she surely would be a most delicious mistress when her corset and the encumbering costume of her part were laid aside . 
All the rapture of love surely was latent in the freedom of her expressive glances , in her caressing tones , in the charm of her words . 
She gave glimpses of the high born courtesan within her , vainly protesting against the creeds of the duchess . 
You might sit near her through an evening , she would be gay and melancholy in turn , and her gaiety , like her sadness , seemed spontaneous . 
She could be gracious , disdainful , insolent , or confiding at will . 
Her apparent good nature was real she had no temptation to descend to malignity . 
But at each moment her mood changed she was full of confidence or craft her moving tenderness would give place to a heart breaking hardness and insensibility . 
Her face was slightly too long . 
There was a grace in it , and a certain thinness and fineness that recalled the portraits of the Middle Ages . 
Her skin was white , with a faint rose tint . 
Everything about her erred , as it were , by an excess of delicacy . 
Yet her whole conversation was but , in a manner , the body of the letter the postscript with the principal thought in it was still to come . 
If I should be so fortunate as to find that my house is agreeable to you , you will always find me at home in the evening until ten o'clock . 
The invitation was given with such irresistible grace , that M. de Montriveau could not refuse to accept it . 
The difficult and brilliant conquest had been made beyond a doubt , and the glory of it was reserved for the Artillery of the Guard . 
All unconsciously , the General felt flattered by this nonsense . 
From his place where he had taken his stand , his eyes were drawn again and again to the Duchess by countless wavering reflections . 
Love would soon be convalescent , as the eighteenth century moralist remarked , were it not for vanity . 
And it is certainly true that for everyone , man or woman , there is a wealth of pleasure in the superiority of the beloved . 
He had been thrown , when little more than a boy , into the hurricane of Napoleon's wars his life had been spent on fields of battle . 
Of women he knew just so much as a traveller knows of a country when he travels across it in haste from one inn to another . 
Of women he had nothing to learn of love he knew nothing and thus , desires , quite unknown before , sprang from this virginity of feeling . 
Every man in Paris is supposed to have been in love . 
No woman in Paris cares to take what other women have passed over . 
Vehement desire seized on M. de Montriveau , desire that had gathered strength from the heat of the desert and the first stirrings of a heart unknown as yet in its suppressed turbulence . 
Armand de Montriveau suddenly took flight and went home in the first hot fever fit of the first love that he had known . 
A sort of childish impatience seizes him , he wants the thing the more , and trembles or cries . 
The woman so cavalierly treated in his thoughts of yesterday had become a most sacred and dreadful power . 
She was to be his world , his life , from this time forth . 
The greatest joy , the keenest anguish , that he had yet known grew colourless before the bare recollection of the least sensation stirred in him by her . 
The swiftest revolutions in a man's outward life only touch his interests , while passion brings a complete revulsion of feeling . 
In a flash , with one single reflection , Armand de Montriveau wiped out his whole past life . 
He was to see the woman ah ! not the woman the idol that he had seen yesterday , among lights , a fresh innocent girl in gauze and silken lace and veiling . 
He burst in upon her to declare his love , as if it were a question of firing the first shot on a field of battle . 
Poor novice ! He found his ethereal sylphide shrouded in a brown cashmere dressing gown ingeniously befrilled , lying languidly stretched out upon a sofa in a dimly lighted boudoir . 
Mme de Langeais did not so much as rise , nothing was visible of her but her face , her hair was loose but confined by a scarf . 
I will go , Armand said to himself . 
, but the vapours have left my head . 
Then may I stay ? Oh , I should be very sorry to allow you to go . 
And I forgave your ingratitude in advance . 
An explorer from the deserts is not supposed to know how exclusive we are in our friendships in the Faubourg . 
The gracious , half murmured words dropped one by one , as if they had been weighted with the gladness that apparently brought them to her lips . 
The Duchess meant to have the full benefit of her headache , and her speculation was fully successful . 
The General , poor man , was really distressed by the lady's simulated distress . 
Like Crillon listening to the story of the Crucifixion , he was ready to draw his sword against the vapours . 
With a single thought came understanding of the delicacies of feeling , of the soul's requirements . 
But no power on earth could veil his glances the heat and the Infinite of the desert blazed in eyes calm as a panther's , beneath the lids that fell so seldom . 
The Duchess enjoyed the steady gaze that enveloped her in light and warmth . 
Mme la Duchesse , he answered , I am afraid I express my gratitude for your goodness very badly . 
At this moment I have but one desire I wish it were in my power to cure the pain . 
Permit me to throw this off , I feel too warm now , she said , gracefully tossing aside a cushion that covered her feet . 
Madame , in Asia your feet would be worth some ten thousand sequins . 
A traveller's compliment ! smiled she . 
She began by laughing at him , but nevertheless it pleased her to make him forget how time went . 
The length of a first visit is frequently a compliment , but Armand was innocent of any such intent . 
The most graceful movement succeeded to complete repose . 
It is a man's great pretension with us . 
And we always believe it ! Out of pure politeness . 
So she prepared with no little dexterity to raise a certain number of redoubts for him to carry by storm before he should gain an entrance into her heart . 
And yet it gave the Duchess inexpressible happiness to see that this strong man had told her the truth . 
Armand had never loved , as he had said . 
Will you come tomorrow evening ? she asked . 
I am going to a ball , but I shall stay at home for you until ten o'clock . 
Even he himself felt that he had fallen so low already in his happiness that to save his life he could not have told his love to one of his closest friends . 
Mme la Duchesse cannot see visitors , monsieur , said the man she is dressing , she begs you to wait for her here . 
Armand walked up and down the drawing room , studying her taste in the least details . 
He admired Mme de Langeais herself in the objects of her choosing they revealed her life before he could grasp her personality and ideas . 
About an hour later the Duchess came noiselessly out of her chamber . 
Montriveau turned , saw her flit like a shadow across the room , and trembled . 
I have kept you waiting , she said , with the tone that a woman can always bring into her voice for the man whom she wishes to please . 
Suffer me only to kiss your scarf . 
Oh , fie ! she said , with a commanding gesture , I esteem you enough to give you my hand . 
She held it out for his kiss . 
A woman's hand , still moist from the scented bath , has a soft freshness , a velvet smoothness that sends a tingling thrill from the lips to the soul . 
Will you always give it me like this ? the General asked humbly when he had pressed that dangerous hand respectfully to his lips . 
Yes , but there we must stop , she said , smiling . 
Ah ! you were punctual , she said that is right . 
It is the courtesy of kings , His Majesty says but to my thinking , from you men it is the most respectful flattery of all . 
Now , is it not ? Just tell me . 
You will never forget to come at nine o'clock . 
Besides , she added , what is that to you ? You shall be my escort . 
That would be difficult tonight , he objected I am not properly dressed . 
You do not know the world , I see I like you the better for it . 
And even as she spoke she swept him into the pettiness of that world by the attempt to initiate him into the vanities of a woman of fashion . 
If she chooses to do a foolish thing for me , I should be a simpleton to prevent her , said Armand to himself . 
She has a liking for me beyond a doubt and as for the world , she cannot despise it more than I do . 
So , now for the ball if she likes . 
And the General was well pleased that the queen of fashion should think of compromising herself for him hope gave him wit . 
He had gained confidence , he brought out his thoughts and views he felt nothing of the restraint that weighed on his spirits yesterday . 
His talk was interesting and animated , and full of those first confidences so sweet to make and to receive . 
Ah ! you have made me too late for the ball ! she exclaimed , surprised and vexed that she had forgotten how time was going . 
The next moment she approved the exchange of pleasures with a smile that made Armand's heart give a sudden leap . 
I certainly promised Mme de Beauseant , she added . 
They are all expecting me . 
Your Eastern adventures fascinate me . 
Tell me the whole story of your life . 
WE are fit for nothing , she went on . 
Ah ! we are contemptible , selfish , frivolous creatures . 
We can bore ourselves with amusements , and that is all we can do . 
Not one of us that understands that she has a part to play in life . 
In old days in France , women were beneficent lights they lived to comfort those that mourned , to encourage high virtues , to reward artists and stir new life with noble thoughts . 
If the world has grown so petty , ours is the fault . 
You make me loathe the ball and this world in which I live . 
No , I am not giving up much for you . 
She could show her swan's neck . 
I shall not go out tonight , she told the footman . 
There was a pause , filled with many thoughts , before she spoke with that tenderness which is often in women's voices , and not so often in their hearts . 
You have had a hard life , she said . 
Until today I did not know what happiness was . 
Then you know it now ? she asked , looking at him with a demure , keen glance . 
What is happiness for me henceforth but this to see you , to hear you ? . 
Until now I have only known privation now I know that I can be unhappy That will do , that will do , she said . 
You must go it is past midnight . 
People must not talk about us . 
I do not know quite what I shall say but the headache is a good natured friend , and tells no tales . 
Is there to be a ball tomorrow night ? You would grow accustomed to the life , I think . 
Yes , we will go again tomorrow night . 
There was not a happier man in the world than Armand when he went out from her . 
Every evening he came to Mme de Langeais's at the hour kept for him by a tacit understanding . 
If sentiment went too fast , she would raise a quarrel over a word , or when words flagged behind her thoughts , she appealed to the feelings . 
Perhaps the only way of following such Penelope's progress is by marking its outward and visible signs . 
As , for instance , within a few days of their first meeting , the assiduous General had won and kept the right to kiss his lady's insatiable hands . 
Wherever Mme de Langeais went , M. de Montriveau was certain to be seen , till people jokingly called him Her Grace's orderly . 
And already he had made enemies others were jealous , and envied him his position . 
Mme de Langeais had attained her end . 
Decidedly , M. de Montriveau is the man for whom the Duchess shows a preference , pronounced Mme de Serizy . 
And who in Paris does not know what it means when a woman shows a preference ? All went on therefore according to prescribed rule . 
And those lesser powers were delighted to take a lover away from Mme de Langeais . 
The Duchess was keen sighted enough to see these desertions and treaties with the enemy and her pride would not suffer her to be the dupe of them . 
Her mocking disdain contributed not a little to increase her reputation as an extremely clever woman and a person to be feared . 
Her character for virtue was consolidated while she amused herself with other people's secrets , and kept her own to herself . 
You will not tame HIM , dear Duchess , the old Vidame de Pamiers had said . 
'Tis a first cousin to the eagle he will carry you off to his eyrie if you do not take care . 
Then Mme de Langeais felt afraid . 
The shrewd old noble's words sounded like a prophecy . 
The next day she tried to turn love to hate . 
She was harsh , exacting , irritable , unbearable Montriveau disarmed her with angelic sweetness . 
She so little knew the great generosity of a large nature , that the kindly jests with which her first complaints were met went to her heart . 
She sought a quarrel , and found proofs of affection . 
When a man idolises you , how can he have vexed you ? asked Armand . 
You do not vex me , she answered , suddenly grown gentle and submissive . 
But why do you wish to compromise me ? For me you ought to be nothing but a FRIEND . 
Nothing but your FRIEND ! he cried out . 
The terrible word sent an electric shock through his brain . 
On the faith of these happy hours that you grant me , I sleep and wake in your heart . 
And now today , for no reason , you are pleased to destroy all the secret hopes by which I live . 
Oh , it is wrong of a woman to yield to such intoxication when she must not and cannot make any return . 
You have merely been coquetting with me , and Coquetting ? she repeated . 
A coquette Armand , makes promises to many , and gives herself to none and a woman who keeps such promises is a libertine . 
This much I believed I had grasped of our code . 
Such talk is the moral counterpart of the toilette . 
You take it up and lay it aside with the plumed head dress . 
Do you call this coquetry ? Why , I have never treated you as I treat everyone else . 
With you , my friend , I am sincere . 
I have thought it over . 
I am a married woman , Armand . 
My way of life with M. de Langeais gives me liberty to bestow my heart but law and custom leave me no right to dispose of my person . 
, that affair made it clear to my mind that these very sacrifices on the woman's part are almost always the cause of the man's desertion . 
If you had loved me sincerely , you would have kept away for a time . 
They will rob me of the very qualities that mortify them . 
So long as my reputation is safe , what do I care if my rivals deny my merits ? They certainly will not inherit them . 
Come , my friend give up something for her who sacrifices so much for you . 
Do not come quite so often I shall love you none the less . 
Ah ! said Armand , with the profound irony of a wounded heart in his words and tone . 
Love , so the scribblers say , only feeds on illusions . 
Nothing could be truer , I see I am expected to imagine that I am loved . 
But , there ! there are some thoughts like wounds , from which there is no recovery . 
My belief in you was one of the last left to me , and now I see that there is nothing left to believe in this earth . 
And now my happiness is to be one more lying delusion I am expected to delude myself , to be willing to give gold coin for silver to the end . 
You think that the whole question is opened because I ask you to be careful . 
In her heart of hearts she was delighted with the anger that leapt out in her lover's eyes . 
Even as she tortured him , she was criticising him , watching every slightest change that passed over his face . 
, he would have been a banished man forever , accused and convicted of not knowing how to love . 
Most women are not displeased to have their code of right and wrong broken through . 
So much of the child was there in the strong man in love . 
Monsieur , you frighten me ! . 
Thank you , she added , coldly thank you , Armand . 
You have given me timely warning of imprudence committed quite unconsciously , believe it , my friend . 
You know how to endure , you say . 
I also know how to endure . 
I am young , Armand a man with no delicacy might tempt a woman of four and twenty to do many foolish , wild things for his sake . 
But YOU ! You will be my friend , promise me that you will ? The woman of four and twenty , returned he , knows what she is about . 
He sat down on the sofa in the boudoir , and leant his head on his hands . 
Do you love me , madame ? he asked at length , raising his head , and turning a face full of resolution upon her . 
Dear Antoinette , I wield a more absolute power than the Autocrat of all the Russias . 
I have a compact with Fate I can advance or retard destiny , so far as men are concerned , at my fancy , as you alter the hands of a watch . 
that you understand the ins and outs of it . 
You shall be free before very long , and then you must remember your promise . 
M. de Langeais may have given me reason to hate him , but I wish him no manner of harm . 
M. de Montriveau beat a tattoo on the marble chimneypiece , and only looked composedly at the lady . 
Dear , continued she , respect him . 
He does not love me , he is not kind to me , but I have duties to fulfil with regard to him . 
If I refused once or twice , it was pure coquetry , indeed it was . 
But let us understand each other , she added as he came closer . 
And then , doubtless she meant to elicit some confidence , for she raised herself on tiptoe , and laid her forehead against Armand's burning lips . 
And then , Montriveau finished her sentence for her , you shall not speak to me of your husband . 
You ought not to think of him again . 
Mme de Langeais was silent awhile . 
You are too good ever to think of crimes . 
I can trust you , Antoinette I shall have no suspicion , no unfounded jealousy of you . 
Pure accident , she repeated . 
If anything should happen to M. de Langeais by your fault , I should never be yours . 
And so they parted , mutually content . 
The Duchess had made a pact that left her free to prove to the world by words and deeds that M. de Montriveau was no lover of hers . 
And as for him , the wily Duchess vowed to tire him out . 
He should have nothing of her beyond the little concessions snatched in the course of contests that she could stop at her pleasure . 
After all , the Duchess was practically separated from her husband a marriage long since annulled was no great sacrifice to make to her love . 
He had gained ground a little , and congratulated himself . 
And so for a time he took unfair advantage of the rights so hardly won . 
More a boy than he had ever been in his life , he gave himself up to all the childishness that makes first love the flower of life . 
Every Sunday she went to Mass she never missed a service then , when evening came , she was steeped in the intoxicating bliss of repressed desire . 
Armand and Mme de Langeais , like Hindoo fakirs , found the reward of their continence in the temptations to which it gave rise . 
There was a languid defence then she grew less unkind . 
Her words were sweet and soothing . 
They were lovers lovers only could have been thus . 
She evoked the terrors of religion . 
Never did Father of the Church , however eloquent , plead the cause of God better than the Duchess . 
Never was the wrath of the Most High better justified than by her voice . 
She used no preacher's commonplaces , no rhetorical amplifications . 
No. She had a pulpit tremor of her own . 
To Armand's most passionate entreaty , she replied with a tearful gaze , and a gesture in which a terrible plenitude of emotion found expression . 
She stopped his mouth with an appeal for mercy . 
She would not hear another word if she did , she must succumb and better death than criminal happiness . 
Your joys are sins for me to expiate , Armand they are paid for by penitence and remorse , she cried . 
And Montriveau , now at two chairs' distance from that aristocratic petticoat , betook himself to blasphemy and railed against Providence . 
The Duchess grew angry at such times . 
My friend , she said drily , I do not understand why you decline to believe in God , for it is impossible to believe in man . 
Hush , do not talk like that . 
You have too great a nature to take up their Liberal nonsense with its pretension to abolish God . 
Few women venture to be democrats the attitude of democratic champion is scarcely compatible with tyrannous feminine sway . 
At such times she was something sublime in Armand's eyes she was not acting , she was genuine the unhappy lover was convinced that she loved him . 
She wanted to bring him back to a Christian frame of mind she brought out her edition of Le Genie du Christianisme , adapted for the use of military men . 
Montriveau chafed his yoke was heavy . 
In the ecclesiastic's bearing there was a stateliness befitting a dignitary of the Church and the episcopal violet hue already appeared in his dress . 
The lover apart , Montriveau was not wanting in tact so a few glances exchanged with the bishop designate told him that here was the real forger of the Duchess's armoury of scruples . 
Any other woman would have been put out by her lover's gloomy silence it was quite otherwise with Mme de Langeais . 
She continued her conversation with M. de Gondrand on the necessity of re establishing the Church in its ancient splendour . 
Nevertheless , the Abbe rose , yielded his place to the General , and took his leave , knowing that in Lent he could play a return game . 
As for the Duchess , Montriveau's behaviour had excited her curiosity to such a pitch that she scarcely rose to return her director's low bow . 
What is the matter with you , my friend ? Why , I cannot stomach that Abbe of yours . 
Why did you not take a book ? she asked , careless whether the Abbe , then closing the door , heard her or no . 
The General paused , for the gesture which accompanied the Duchess's speech further increased the exceeding insolence of her words . 
My dear Antoinette , thank you for giving love precedence of the Church but , for pity's sake , allow me to ask one question . 
Oh ! you are questioning me ! I am quite willing . 
You are my friend , are you not ? I certainly can open the bottom of my heart to you you will see only one image there . 
Do you talk about our love to that man ? He is my confessor . 
But leave God alone where He is , for the love of God and me . 
Madame , you SHALL NOT go to confession again , or Or ? she repeated sweetly . 
Or I will never come back here . 
Good bye , good bye forever . 
She rose and went to her boudoir without so much as a glance at Armand , as he stood with his hand on the back of a chair . 
How long he stood there motionless he himself never knew . 
The soul within has the mysterious power of expanding as of contracting space . 
He opened the door of the boudoir . 
A faint voice was raised to say sharply I did not ring . 
What made you come in without orders ? Go away , Suzette . 
Then you are ill , exclaimed Montriveau . 
Stand up , monsieur , and go out of the room for a minute at any rate , she said , ringing the bell . 
Mme la Duchesse rang for lights ? said the footman , coming in with the candles . 
When the lovers were alone together , Mme de Langeais still lay on her couch she was just as silent and motionless as if Montriveau had not been there . 
Dear , I was wrong , he began , a note of pain and a sublime kindness in his voice . 
Indeed , I would not have you without religion It is fortunate that you can recognise the necessity of a conscience , she said in a hard voice , without looking at him . 
I thank you in God's name . 
The General was broken down by her harshness this woman seemed as if she could be at will a sister or a stranger to him . 
He made one despairing stride towards the door . 
He would leave her forever without another word . 
He was wretched and the Duchess was laughing within herself over mental anguish far more cruel than the old judicial torture . 
But as for going away , it was not in his power to do it . 
Mme de Langeais had not said all that was in her mind . 
She took up her parable and said We have not the same convictions , General , I am pained to think . 
It would be dreadful if a woman could not believe in a religion which permits us to love beyond the grave . 
I set Christian sentiments aside you cannot understand them . 
Let me simply speak to you of expediency . 
Would you forbid a woman at court the table of the Lord when it is customary to take the sacrament at Easter ? People must certainly do something for their party . 
The Liberals , whatever they may wish to do , will never destroy the religious instinct . 
Religion will always be a political necessity . 
Would you undertake to govern a nation of logic choppers ? Napoleon was afraid to try he persecuted ideologists . 
If you want to keep people from reasoning , you must give them something to feel . 
So let us accept the Roman Catholic Church with all its consequences . 
Religion and the rights of property are intimately connected . 
The priest and the king that means you , and me , and the Princess my neighbour and , in a word , the interests of all honest people personified . 
There , my friend , just be so good as to belong to your party , you that might be its Sylla if you had the slightest ambition that way . 
Now was your battle of Dreux . 
Like the royal power of those days , you won in fact , while you lost in right . 
Political Protestantism has gained an ascendancy over people's minds . 
It will not be the Revolution that will go into exile she is the very soil of France . 
Men die , but people's interests do not die . 
Eh , great Heavens ! what are France and the crown and rightful sovereigns , and the whole world besides , to us ? Idle words compared with my happiness . 
Let them reign or be hurled from the throne , little do I care . 
Where am I now ? In the Duchesse de Langeais's boudoir , my friend . 
No more of the Duchess , no more of Langeais I am with my dear Antoinette . 
Will you do me the pleasure to stay where you are , she said , laughing and pushing him back , gently however . 
So you have never loved me , he retorted , and anger flashed in lightning from his eyes . 
No , dear but the No was equivalent to Yes . 
I am a great ass , he said , kissing her hands . 
The terrible queen was a woman once more . 
Antoinette , he went on , laying his head on her feet , you are too chastely tender to speak of our happiness to anyone in this world . 
Oh ! she cried , rising to her feet with a swift , graceful spring , you are a great simpleton . 
And without another word she fled into the drawing room . 
What is it now ? wondered the General , little knowing that the touch of his burning forehead had sent a swift electric thrill through her from foot to head . 
In hot wrath he followed her to the drawing room , only to hear divinely sweet chords . 
The Duchess was at the piano . 
For the poet and the man of science there is a music existing apart , underlying the double expression of this language of the spirit and senses . 
The General was listening now to such a song a mysterious music unknown to all other ears , as the solitary plaint of some mateless bird dying alone in a virgin forest . 
Great Heavens ! what are you playing there ? he asked in an unsteady voice . 
The prelude of a ballad , called , I believe , Fleuve du Tage . 
I did not know that there was such music in a piano , he returned . 
If I did not , I should yield But you see nothing . 
And you will not make me happy ! Armand , I should die of sorrow the next day . 
The General turned abruptly from her and went . 
But out in the street he brushed away the tears that he would not let fall . 
The religious phase lasted for three months . 
At the end of that time the Duchess grew weary of vain repetitions the Deity , bound hand and foot , was delivered up to her lover . 
Possibly she may have feared that by sheer dint of talking of eternity she might perpetuate his love in this world and the next . 
For her own sake , it must be believed that no man had touched her heart , or her conduct would be inexcusable . 
She was young the time when men and women feel that they cannot afford to lose time or to quibble over their joys was still far off . 
She , no doubt , was on the verge not of first love , but of her first experience of the bliss of love . 
And from inexperience , for want of the painful lessons which would have taught her to value the treasure poured out at her feet , she was playing with it . 
Knowing nothing of the glory and rapture of the light , she was fain to stay in the shadow . 
Armand was just beginning to understand this strange situation he put his hope in the first word spoken by nature . 
He was waiting patiently for the sun to gain power , not doubting but that he should receive the earliest fruits . 
The married woman's hesitations and the religious scruples he could quite well understand . 
He even rejoiced over those battles . 
He mistook the Duchess's heartless coquetry for modesty and he would not have had her otherwise . 
So he made up his mind to demand more , to demand all . 
Embarrassed like a young lover who cannot dare to believe that his idol can stoop so low , he hesitated for a long time . 
He passed through the experience of terrible reactions within himself . 
A set purpose was annihilated by a word , and definite resolves died within him on the threshold . 
He despised himself for his weakness , and still his desire remained unuttered . 
Nevertheless , one evening , after sitting in gloomy melancholy , he brought out a fierce demand for his illegally legitimate rights . 
The Duchess had not to wait for her bond slave's request to guess his desire . 
As a reward for my generosity , you would dishonour me ? Just reflect a little . 
I myself have thought much over this and I think always for us BOTH . 
There is such a thing as a woman's loyalty , and we can no more fail in it than you can fail in honour . 
No , not another word . 
I will not , I cannot listen to you . 
Mme de Langeais raised both hands to her head to push back the tufted curls from her hot forehead she seemed very much excited . 
You come to a weak woman with your purpose definitely planned out . 
You say For a certain length of time she will talk to me of her husband , then of God , and then of the inevitable consequences . 
Now , be frank these are your thoughts ! Oh ! you calculate , and you say that you love . 
Simple bourgeoises may be the victims of your treachery I , never ! Nothing gives me assurance of your love . 
You speak of my beauty I may lose every trace of it in six months , like the dear Princess , my neighbour . 
You are captivated by my wit , my grace . 
Great Heavens ! you would soon grow used to them and to the pleasures of possession . 
Then , rank and fortune and honour and all that was the Duchesse de Langeais will be swallowed up in one disappointed hope . 
I am only too fortunate in that I can still break these bonds which you think so strong . 
Hush , that will do , that will do , she continued , seeing that he was about to speak , you have no heart , no soul , no delicacy . 
I know what you want to tell me . 
Very well , then yes . 
Your selfish love is not worth so many sacrifices . 
The words give but a very inadequate idea of the discourse which the Duchess trilled out with the quick volubility of a bird organ . 
Then , as he heard her reproach him with detestable motives , he felt something like shame as he remembered that unconsciously he had made those very calculations . 
In his despair he longed to fling himself from the window . 
The egoism of it was intolerable . 
What indeed can a man say when a woman will not believe in love ? Let me prove how much I love you . 
The I is always there . 
The heroes of the boudoir , in such circumstances , can follow the example of the primitive logician who preceded the Pyrrhonists and denied movement . 
Montriveau was not equal to this feat . 
With all his audacity , he lacked this precise kind which never deserts an adept in the formulas of feminine algebra . 
Now the Duchess and Montriveau were alike in this they were both equally unversed in love lore . 
The lady's knowledge of theory was but scanty in practice she knew nothing whatever she felt nothing , and reflected over everything . 
Montriveau had had but little experience , was absolutely ignorant of theory , and felt too much to reflect at all . 
Both therefore were enduring the consequences of the singular situation . 
Something nevertheless he must say . 
Mme la Duchesse , I am in despair that God should have invented no way for a woman to confirm the gift of her heart save by adding the gift of her person . 
The high value which you yourself put upon the gift teaches me that I cannot attach less importance to it . 
But you must pardon a man of spirit if he feels humiliated at being taken for a spaniel . 
We become bond slaves when we give ourselves body and soul , but a man is bound to nothing by accepting the gift . 
I have no wish to be a second edition of Mme de Beauseant . 
No woman in this world as yet has really read the riddle of man's heart . 
When she spoke again it was in a different tone . 
The poignant irony of her answer had changed before the end into the most musical accents in which a woman could find utterance for ingenuous love . 
To listen to her words was to pass in a moment from martyrdom to heaven . 
Montriveau grew pale and for the first time in his life , he fell on his knees before a woman . 
The Duchess thought herself generous when she suffered herself to be adored . 
But Montriveau was in a wild frenzy of joy over her complete surrender of the position . 
Dear Antoinette , he cried . 
Yes , you are right I will not have you doubt any longer . 
I too am trembling at this moment lest the angel of my life should leave me I wish I could invent some tie that might bind us to each other irrevocably . 
Ah ! she said , under her breath , so I was right , you see . 
Let me say all that I have to say I will scatter all your fears with a word . 
Listen ! if I deserted you , I should deserve to die a thousand deaths . 
Be wholly mine , and I will give you the right to kill me if I am false . 
I myself will write a letter explaining certain reasons for taking my own life I will make my final arrangements , in short . 
You shall have the letter in your keeping in the eye of the law it will be a sufficient explanation of my death . 
You can avenge yourself , and fear nothing from God or men . 
Then what is it that you wish ? Your obedience and my liberty . 
Ah , God ! cried he , I am a child . 
A wayward , much spoilt child , she said , stroking the thick hair , for his head still lay on her knee . 
Ah ! and loved far more than he believes , and yet he is very disobedient . 
Armand de Montriveau stayed with her till two o'clock in the morning . 
He went along the Quais to see the widest possible space of sky his heart had grown in him he would fain have had the bounds of the firmament and of earth enlarged . 
It seemed to him that his lungs drew an ampler breath . 
Love would be naught without the belief that it would last forever love grows great through constancy . 
It was thus that , wholly absorbed by his happiness , Montriveau understood passion . 
We belong to each other forever ! The thought was like a talisman fulfilling the wishes of his life . 
He did not ask whether the Duchess might not change , whether her love might not last . 
No , for he had faith . 
Without that virtue there is no future for Christianity , and perhaps it is even more necessary to society . 
Next day M. de Montriveau went early in the direction of the Faubourg Saint Germain . 
He had made an appointment at a house not far from the Hotel de Langeais and the business over , he went thither as if to his own home . 
The General's companion chanced to be a man for whom he felt a kind of repulsion whenever he met him in other houses . 
This was the Marquis de Ronquerolles , whose reputation had grown so great in Paris boudoirs . 
He was witty , clever , and what was more courageous he set the fashion to all the young men in Paris . 
Where are you going ? asked M. de Ronquerolles . 
I forgot that you had allowed her to lime you . 
You are wasting your affections on her when they might be much better employed elsewhere . 
The Duchess is an angel of innocence . 
Things being thus , dear boy , said he , it is my duty to enlighten you . 
Just a word there is no harm in it between ourselves . 
Has the Duchess surrendered ? If so , I have nothing more to say . 
Come , give me your confidence . 
There is no occasion to waste your time in grafting your great nature on that unthankful stock , when all your hopes and cultivation will come to nothing . 
Armand ingenuously made a kind of general report of his position , enumerating with much minuteness the slender rights so hardly won . 
Ronquerolles burst into a peal of laughter so heartless , that it would have cost any other man his life . 
They have made a sort of compromise with human nature . 
The code of their parish gives them a pretty wide latitude short of the last transgression . 
The sweets enjoyed by this fair Duchess of yours are so many venial sins to be washed away in the waters of penitence . 
The tender Antoinette would dismiss everything from her memory you would be less than a cipher for her . 
She would wipe away your kisses , my dear friend , as indifferently as she would perform her ablutions . 
She would sponge love from her cheeks as she washes off rouge . 
We know women of that sort the thorough bred Parisienne . 
Have you ever noticed a grisette tripping along the street ? Her face is as good as a picture . 
A pretty cap , fresh cheeks , trim hair , a guileful smile , and the rest of her almost neglected . 
Is not this true to the life ? Well , that is the Parisienne . 
She knows that her face is all that will be seen , so she devotes all her care , finery , and vanity to her head . 
The Duchess is the same the head is everything with her . 
She can only feel through her intellect , her heart lies in her brain , she is a sort of intellectual epicure , she has a head voice . 
We call that kind of poor creature a Lais of the intellect . 
You have been taken in like a boy . 
If you doubt it , you can have proof of it tonight , this morning , this instant . 
Go up to her , try the demand as an experiment , insist peremptorily if it is refused . 
You might set about it like the late Marechal de Richelieu , and get nothing for your pains . 
Armand was dumb with amazement . 
Has your desire reached the point of infatuation ? I want her at any cost ! Montriveau cried out despairingly . 
Be as inexorable as she is herself . 
Try to humiliate her , to sting her vanity . 
Do NOT try to move her heart , nor her soul , but the woman's nerves and temperament , for she is both nervous and lymphatic . 
If you can once awaken desire in her , you are safe . 
But you must drop these romantic boyish notions of yours . 
Be as inflexible as law . 
Show no more charity than the headsman . 
Hit hard , and then hit again . 
Strike and keep on striking as if you were giving her the knout . 
The steel feminine system will glow red hot like iron in the forge that kind of heat lasts longer than any other , and the glow of it may possibly turn to love . 
Still , he continued , I have my doubts . 
A pleasant time to you , my children , added Ronquerolles , after a pause . 
Then with a laugh I have decided myself for facile beauties they are tender , at any rate , the natural woman appears in their love without any of your social seasonings . 
A woman that haggles over herself , my poor boy , and only means to inspire love ! Well , have her like an extra horse for show . 
The match between the sofa and confessional , black and white , queen and knight , conscientious scruples and pleasure , is an uncommonly amusing game of chess . 
And if a man knows the game , let him be never so little of a rake , he wins in three moves . 
As for Montriveau , he sprang at a bound across the courtyard of the Hotel de Langeais , went unannounced up the stairs straight to the Duchess's bedroom . 
This is an unheard of thing , she said , hastily wrapping her dressing gown about her . 
Armand ! this is abominable of you ! Come , leave the room , I beg . 
Just go out of the room , and go at once . 
Wait for me in the drawing room . 
He came up to the Duchess , took her in his arms , and held her tightly to him . 
Forgive , dear Antoinette but a host of horrid doubts are fermenting in my heart . 
DOUBTS ? Fie ! Oh , fie on you ! Doubts all but justified . 
Often in a ballroom a longing has come upon me to spring to your side and put my arms about your neck . 
Then I have still to find favour in your sight ? Oh , I should think so . 
Come , added she , with a little imperious air , go out of the room , leave me . 
I am not like you I wish always to find favour in your eyes . 
He guessed the terrible truth revealed by the Duchess's nonchalance , and his heart swelled with the storm like a lake rising in flood . 
My woman might overhear you . 
Respect me , I beg of you . 
Your familiarity is all very well in my boudoir in an evening here it is quite different . 
Besides , what may your you shall' mean ? You shall . 
No one as yet has ever used that word to me . 
It is quite ridiculous , it seems to me , absolutely ridiculous . 
Then Montriveau felt the hardness of a woman as cold and keen as a steel blade she was crushing in her scorn . 
In one moment she had snapped the bonds which held firm only for her lover . 
She had read Armand's intention in his face , and held that the moment had come for teaching the Imperial soldier his lesson . 
Madame , returned Armand , I have not time to wait . 
I am a spoilt child , as you told me yourself . 
When I seriously resolve to have that of which we have been speaking , I shall have it . 
You will have it ? queried she , and there was a trace of surprise in her loftiness . 
Oh ! you would do me a great pleasure by resolving' to have it . 
Will you permit me to take you to the ball tonight ? A thousand thanks . 
M. de Marsay has been beforehand with you . 
I gave him my promise . 
Montriveau bowed gravely and went . 
So Ronquerolles was right , thought he , and now for a game of chess . 
Thenceforward he hid his agitation by complete composure . 
No man is strong enough to bear such sudden alternations from the height of happiness to the depths of wretchedness . 
When I am with her my wits desert me . 
She does not know how vile and contemptible she is . 
Nobody has ventured to bring her face to face with herself . 
She has played with many a man , no doubt I will avenge them all . 
That very evening he went to the ball at which he was sure of seeing the Duchesse de Langeais , and almost despaired of reaching her heart . 
Everyone laughed at Montriveau and he , having omitted to consult his cornac , was abstracted and ill at ease . 
Steel against steel we shall see which heart will leave the deeper mark . 
For a week or so Mme de Langeais hoped to see the Marquis de Montriveau again but he contented himself with sending his card every morning to the Hotel de Langeais . 
The Duchess could not help shuddering each time that the card was brought in , and a dim foreboding crossed her mind , but the thought was vague as a presentiment of disaster . 
She had studied him too well not to dread him . 
There were hours when , if he had come , she would have gone to his arms in complete self surrender . 
Every night before she slept she saw Montriveau's face every night it wore a different aspect . 
Sometimes she saw his bitter smile , sometimes the Jovelike knitting of the brows or his leonine look , or some disdainful movement of the shoulders made him terrible for her . 
Next day the card seemed stained with blood . 
The name of Montriveau stirred her now as the presence of the fiery , stubborn , exacting lover had never done . 
Her apprehensions gathered strength in the silence . 
She was forced , without aid from without , to face the thought of a hideous duel of which she could not speak . 
Her proud hard nature was more responsive to thrills of hate than it had ever been to the caresses of love . 
The Duchess felt that she was under the lion's paws she quaked , but she did not hate him . 
The man and woman thus singularly placed with regard to each other met three times in society during the course of that week . 
Armand was the first person whom the Duchess saw when she came into the room , and this time Armand was looking out for her , or so she thought at least . 
The two exchanged a look , and suddenly the woman felt a cold perspiration break from every pore . 
Lightnings flashed from the foiled lover's eyes , his face was radiant with exultant vengeance . 
And the Duchess ? Her eyes were haggard in spite of her resolution to be cool and insolent . 
I shall be all right after a quadrille , she answered , giving a hand to a young man who came up at that moment . 
Mme de Langeais waltzed that evening with a sort of excitement and transport which redoubled Montriveau's lowering looks . 
He stood in front of the line of spectators , who were amusing themselves by looking on . 
Every time that SHE came past him , his eyes darted down upon her eddying face he might have been a tiger with the prey in his grasp . 
The King made it first of all to some inquisitive person , and they repeat it still in memory of him . 
What does the man say ? asked Mme de Serizy . 
Do not touch the axe ! replied Montriveau , and there was menace in the sound of his voice . 
The Duchess was in a cold sweat , but nevertheless she laughed as she spoke the last words . 
But circumstances give the story a quite new application , returned he . 
How so pray tell me , for pity's sake ? In this way , madame you have touched the axe , said Montriveau , lowering his voice . 
What an enchanting prophecy ! returned she , smiling with assumed grace . 
And when is my head to fall ? I have no wish to see that pretty head of yours cut off . 
I only fear some great misfortune for you . 
After it is over we find out those who love us sincerely . 
And when will the punishment begin ? At this Montriveau coolly took out his watch , and ascertained the hour with a truly appalling air of conviction . 
A dreadful misfortune will befall you before this day is out . 
I am not a child to be easily frightened , or rather , I am a child ignorant of danger , said the Duchess . 
I shall dance now without fear on the edge of the precipice . 
I am delighted to know that you have so much strength of character , he answered , as he watched her go to take her place in a square dance . 
But the Duchess , in spite of her apparent contempt for Armand's dark prophecies , was really frightened . 
Her late lover's presence weighed upon her morally and physically with a sense of oppression that scarcely ceased when he left the ballroom . 
The regret was not love , but it was certainly akin to other feelings which prepare the way for love . 
By this time it was about midnight . 
One of her servants , waiting with her pelisse , went down to order her carriage . 
On her way home she fell naturally enough to musing over M. de Montriveau's prediction . 
Arrived in her own courtyard , as she supposed , she entered a vestibule almost like that of her own hotel , and suddenly saw that the staircase was different . 
She was in a strange house . 
Turning to call her servants , she was attacked by several men , who rapidly flung a handkerchief over her mouth , bound her hand and foot , and carried her off . 
Madame , our orders are to kill you if you scream , a voice said in her ear . 
So great was the Duchess's terror , that she could never recollect how nor by whom she was transported . 
When she came to herself , she was lying on a couch in a bachelor's lodging , her hands and feet tied with silken cords . 
In spite of herself , she shrieked aloud as she looked round and met Armand de Montriveau's eyes . 
He was sitting in his dressing gown , quietly smoking a cigar in his armchair . 
Do not cry out , Mme la Duchesse , he said , coolly taking the cigar out of his mouth I have a headache . 
Besides , I will untie you . 
But listen attentively to what I have the honour to say to you . 
Very carefully he untied the knots that bound her feet . 
What would be the use of calling out ? Nobody can hear your cries . 
You are too well bred to make any unnecessary fuss . 
If you do not stay quietly , if you insist upon a struggle with me , I shall tie your hands and feet again . 
You have made me shed many tears on this couch , tears that I hid from all other eyes . 
While Montriveau was speaking , the Duchess glanced about her it was a woman's glance , a stolen look that saw all things and seemed to see nothing . 
She was much pleased with the room . 
It was rather like a monk's cell . 
The man's character and thoughts seemed to pervade it . 
No decoration of any kind broke the grey painted surface of the walls . 
A green carpet covered the floor . 
The other door by which the band had entered was likewise curtained , but the drapery hung from an ordinary curtain rod . 
Monsieur , if it is not indiscreet , may I ask what you mean to do with me ? The insolence and irony of the tone stung through the words . 
The Duchess quite believed that she read extravagant love in Montriveau's speech . 
He had carried her off was not that in itself an acknowledgment of her power ? Nothing whatever , madame , he returned , gracefully puffing the last whiff of cigar smoke . 
You will remain here for a short time . 
First of all , I should like to explain to you what you are , and what I am . 
Here my mind is unfettered . 
Here nobody can turn me out . 
Here you shall be my victim for a few seconds , and you are going to be so exceedingly kind as to listen to me . 
I did not carry you off to insult you , nor yet to take by force what you refused to grant of your own will to my unworthiness . 
I could not stoop so low . 
You possibly think of outrage for myself , I have no such thoughts . 
He flung his cigar coolly into the fire . 
The Duchess's astonishment was only equalled by her humiliation . 
She was in this man's power and he would not abuse his power . 
The eyes in which love had once blazed like flame were now quiet and steady as stars . 
Her dread of Armand was increased by a nightmare sensation of restlessness and utter inability to move she felt as if she were turned to stone . 
She lay passive in the grip of fear . 
Listen carefully to me , he continued , pausing to add solemnity to his words . 
Love will always come at your call . 
You played with it , and you committed a crime . 
So listen to me still . 
In any case I have rights over you but I only choose to exercise one the right of the judge over the criminal , so that I may arouse your conscience . 
As he spoke the Duchess heard the smothered sound of a pair of bellows . 
Those mysterious figures which she had just seen were blowing up the fire , no doubt the glow shone through the curtain . 
But Montriveau's lurid face was turned upon her she could not choose but wait with a fast beating heart and eyes fixed in a stare . 
However curious she felt , the heat in Armand's words interested her even more than the crackling of the mysterious flames . 
Well , you that are religious , and even a little of a bigot , may have masses said for such a man's soul . 
You both belong to the same family , but yours is the elder branch and the elder branch may occupy high places in peace and live happily and without cares . 
The murderer simply lay in wait for his victim , and killed him reluctantly , and in fear of the scaffold but YOU . 
You asked innumerable sacrifices of him , only to refuse to make any in return . 
They can give and forgive they know how to love and suffer . 
The grandeur of their devotion dwarfs us . 
Rising higher in the social scale , one finds just as much mud as at the lower end but with this difference , at the upper end it is hard and gilded over . 
Yes , to find baseness in perfection , you must look for a noble bringing up , a great name , a fair woman , a duchess . 
You cannot fall lower than the lowest unless you are set high above the rest of the world . 
I express my thoughts badly the wounds you dealt me are too painful as yet , but do not think that I complain . 
My words are not the expression of any hope for myself there is no trace of bitterness in them . 
Know this , madame , for a certainty I forgive you . 
My forgiveness is so complete that you need not feel in the least sorry that you came hither to find it against your will . 
But you might take advantage of other hearts as child like as my own , and it is my duty to spare them anguish . 
So you have inspired the thought of justice . 
Expiate your sin here on earth God may perhaps forgive you I wish that He may , but He is inexorable , and will strike . 
The broken spirited , broken hearted woman looked up , her eyes filled with tears . 
Why do you cry ? Be true to your nature . 
You could look on indifferently at the torture of a heart as you broke it . 
That will do , madame , do not cry . 
I cannot bear it any longer . 
Other men will tell you that you have given them life as for myself , I tell you , with rapture , that you have given me blank extinction . 
Pray spare your tears , madame . 
If I believed in them at all , it would merely set me on my guard . 
That is all I have to say . 
Mme de Langeais rose to her feet , with a great dignity and humility in her bearing . 
I punish you , madame ! A man must love still , to punish , must he not ? From me you must expect no feeling , nothing resembling it . 
If I chose , I might be accuser and judge in my cause , and pronounce and carry out the sentence . 
But I am about to fulfil a duty , not a desire of vengeance of any kind . 
The cruellest revenge of all , I think , is scorn of revenge when it is in our power to take it . 
And then , you will love ! The Duchess sat listening her meekness was unfeigned it was no coquettish device . 
When she spoke at last , it was after a silence . 
I was weak you have turned all my weaknesses against me , and made so many crimes of them . 
I was as sincere in my wrongdoing , I swear to you , as in my remorse . 
There was far more love for you in my severity than in my concessions . 
And besides , of what do you complain ? I gave you my heart that was not enough you demanded , brutally , that I should give my person Brutally ? repeated Montriveau . 
But to himself he said , If I once allow her to dispute over words , I am lost . 
You came to me as if I were one of those women . 
You showed none of the respect , none of the attentions of love . 
Had I not reason to reflect ? Very well , I reflected . 
The unseemliness of your conduct is not inexcusable love lay at the source of it let me think so , and justify you to myself . 
Well , Armand , this evening , even while you were prophesying evil , I felt convinced that there was happiness in store for us both . 
Yes , I put my faith in the noble , proud nature so often tested and proved . 
And I was yours wholly , she murmured in his ear . 
I felt a longing that I cannot express to give happiness to a man so violently tried by adversity . 
If I must have a master , my master should be a great man . 
As I felt conscious of my height , the less I cared to descend . 
I felt I could trust you , I saw a whole lifetime of love , while you were pointing to death . 
Strength and kindness always go together . 
My friend , you are so strong , you will not be unkind to a helpless woman who loves you . 
Yours ! yours ! my one and only master ! Armand tried to raise her . 
Madame , it is too late ! Antoinette cannot save the Duchesse de Langeais . 
I cannot believe in either . 
Today you may give yourself tomorrow , you may refuse . 
No power in earth or heaven can insure me the sweet constancy of love . 
All love's pledges lay in the past and now nothing of that past exists . 
The light behind the curtain blazed up so brightly , that the Duchess could not help turning her head this time she distinctly saw the three masked figures . 
Armand , she said , I would not wish to think ill of you . 
Think of them simply as my hands and my heart . 
One of them is a surgeon A surgeon ! Armand , my friend , of all things , suspense is the hardest to bear . 
He held out a Lorraine cross , fastened to the tip of a steel rod . 
Two of my friends at this very moment are heating another cross , made on this pattern , red hot . 
In short , you shall bear on your forehead the brand of infamy which your brothers the convicts wear on their shoulders . 
The pain is a mere trifle , but I feared a nervous crisis of some kind , of resistance Resistance ? she cried , clapping her hands for joy . 
Oh no , no ! I would have the whole world here to see . 
Ah , my Armand , brand her quickly , this creature of yours brand her with your mark as a poor little trifle belonging to you . 
You asked for pledges of my love here they are all in one . 
Ah ! for me there is nothing but mercy and forgiveness and eternal happiness in this revenge of yours . 
Come in , gentlemen ! come in and brand her , this Duchesse de Langeais . 
He said some word , and his three friends vanished . 
The women of Paris salons know how one mirror reflects another . 
The Duchess , with every motive for reading the depths of Armand's heart , was all eyes and Armand , all unsuspicious of the mirror , brushed away two tears as they fell . 
Her whole future lay in those two tears . 
When he turned round again to help her to rise , she was standing before him , sure of love . 
Her pulses must have throbbed fast when he spoke with the firmness she had known so well how to use of old while she played with him . 
I spare you , madame . 
All that has taken place shall be as if it had never been , you may believe me . 
But now , let us bid each other goodbye . 
I like to think that you were sincere in your coquetries on your sofa , sincere again in this outpouring of your heart . 
I feel that there is no faith in you left in me . 
You would torment me again you would always be the Duchess , and But there , good bye , we shall never understand each other . 
Neither your servants nor anyone else can possibly know what has passed between us in the last quarter of an hour . 
Your servants have no idea that you have left the ballroom your carriage never left Mme de Serizy's courtyard your brougham may likewise be found in the court of your own hotel . 
Where do you wish to be ? What do you counsel , Armand ? There is no Armand now , Mme la Duchesse . 
We are strangers to each other . 
Then take me to the ball , she said , still curious to put Armand's power to the test . 
Thrust a soul that suffered in the world , and must always suffer there , if there is no happiness for her now , down into hell again . 
The hateful world has not corrupted me . 
I am young at least , and I have grown younger still . 
I am a child , yes , your child , your new creature . 
Ah ! do not drive me forth out of my Eden ! Armand shook his head . 
No , I am NOT like all those depraved women . 
You do not know the world , and so you cannot know my worth . 
Oh , my Armand , there are noble , high , and chaste and pure natures among us and then they are lovely indeed . 
I would have all nobleness that I might offer it all up to you . 
Misfortune willed that I should be a duchess I would I were a royal princess , that my offering might be complete . 
I would be a grisette for you , and a queen for everyone besides . 
He listened , damping his cigars with his lips . 
You will let me know when you wish to go , he said . 
But I should like to stay That is another matter ! Stay , that was badly rolled , she cried , seizing on a cigar and devouring all that Armand's lips had touched . 
Do you smoke ? Oh , what would I not do to please you ? Very well . 
I will obey you , she answered , with tears in her eyes . 
You must be blindfolded you must not see a glimpse of the way . 
I am ready , Armand , she said , bandaging her eyes . 
Can you see ? No. Noiselessly he knelt before her . 
Ah ! I can hear you ! she cried , with a little fond gesture , thinking that the pretence of harshness was over . 
He made as if he would kiss her lips she held up her face . 
You can see , madame . 
I am just a little bit curious . 
Armand felt sure of her after that cry . 
He led the way the Duchess nobly true to her word , was blind . 
At length , after some journey made together , Armand bade her go forward the opening was doubtless narrow , for as she went she felt that his hand protected her dress . 
His care touched her it was a revelation surely that there was a little love still left yet it was in some sort a farewell , for Montriveau left her without a word . 
The air was warm the Duchess , feeling the heat , opened her eyes , and found herself standing by the fire in the Comtesse de Serizy's boudoir . 
Her first thought was for her disordered toilette in a moment she had adjusted her dress and restored her picturesque coiffure . 
Well , dear Antoinette , we have been looking for you everywhere . 
It was the Comtesse de Serizy who spoke as she opened the door . 
I came here to breathe , said the Duchess it is unbearably hot in the rooms . 
People thought that you had gone but my brother Ronquerolles told me that your servants were waiting for you . 
I am tired out , dear , let me stay and rest here for a minute , and the Duchess sat down on the sofa . 
Why , what is the matter with you ? You are shaking from head to foot ! The Marquis de Ronquerolles came in . 
Mme la Duchesse , I was afraid that something might have happened . 
I have just come across your coachman , the man is as tipsy as all the Swiss in Switzerland . 
The Duchess made no answer she was looking round the room , at the chimney piece and the tall mirrors , seeking the trace of an opening . 
Then with an extraordinary sensation she recollected that she was again in the midst of the gaiety of the ballroom after that terrific scene which had changed the whole course of her life . 
She began to shiver violently . 
M. de Montriveau's prophecy has shaken my nerves , she said . 
It was a joke , but still I will see whether his axe from London will haunt me even in my sleep . 
So good bye , dear . 
Good bye , M. le Marquis . 
As she went through the rooms she was beset with enquiries and regrets . 
Her world seemed to have dwindled now that she , its queen , had fallen so low , was so diminished . 
She looked , in spite of herself , at the servant who had attended her to the ball . 
Have you been here all the time ? she asked . 
She reached home , at any rate , without accident but even there she felt a change in herself , a new feeling that she could not shake off . 
For her , there was now but one man in the world which is to say that henceforth she cared to shine for his sake alone . 
A rigid application of this line explains the nature of the crisis through which the Duchess , like most women , was to pass . 
Passion she knew , but she did not love as yet . 
Love and passion are two different conditions which poets and men of the world , philosophers and fools , alike continually confound . 
But Passion is the foreshadowing of Love , and of that Infinite to which all suffering souls aspire . 
Passion is a hope that may be cheated . 
Passion means both suffering and transition . 
Passion dies out when hope is dead . 
Men and women may pass through this experience many times without dishonour , for it is so natural to spring towards happiness but there is only one love in a lifetime . 
But the belief that she still had in herself gave her hope of success . 
She spent the next day in a state of moral torpor , troubled by a physical unrest , which no words could express . 
She wrote letters and tore them all up , and invented a thousand impossible fancies . 
When M. de Montriveau's usual hour arrived , she tried to think that he would come , and enjoyed the feeling of expectation . 
Her whole life was concentrated in the single sense of hearing . 
In her tense self concentration , the ticking of the clock grew hateful to her she stopped its ill omened garrulity . 
The twelve strokes of midnight sounded from the drawing room . 
Ah , God ! she cried , to see him here would be happiness . 
And yet , it is not so very long since he came here , brought by desire , and the tones of his voice filled this boudoir . 
And now there is nothing . 
She remembered the times that she had played the coquette with him , and how that her coquetry had cost her her lover , and the despairing tears flowed for long . 
Her woman came at length with , Mme la Duchesse does not know , perhaps , that it is two o'clock in the morning I thought that madame was not feeling well . 
Yes , I am going to bed , said the Duchess , drying her eyes . 
But remember , Suzanne , never to come in again without orders I tell you this for the last time . 
For a week , Mme de Langeais went to every house where there was a hope of meeting M. de Montriveau . 
Contrary to her usual habits , she came early and went late gave up dancing , and went to the card tables . 
She did not succeed in getting a glimpse of Armand . 
She did not dare to utter his name now . 
So he does not come here either ? she returned . 
He is not to be seen anywhere , for that matter . 
He is interested in some woman , no doubt . 
I used to think that the Marquis de Ronquerolles was one of his friends the Duchess began sweetly . 
I have never heard my brother say that he was acquainted with him . 
Mme de Langeais did not reply . 
So you miss that melancholy personage , do you ? I have heard most extraordinary things of him . 
Wound his feelings , he never comes back , he forgives nothing and , if you love him , he keeps you in chains . 
Pooh ! society does not want such tremendous natures . 
Men of that stamp are all very well at home let them stay there and leave us to our pleasant littlenesses . 
I took a great interest in him , and promised to myself to be his sincere friend . 
I like great natures , dear friend , ridiculous though you may think it . 
She sent her footman with it next day . 
On the servant's return , she asked whether he had given the letter to M. de Montriveau himself , and could not restrain the movement of joy at the affirmative answer . 
Again and again , when impatience grew unbearable , Antoinette found reasons for his delay . 
Armand felt embarrassed the reply would come by post but night came , and she could not deceive herself any longer . 
It was a dreadful day , a day of pain grown sweet , of intolerable heart throbs , a day when the heart squanders the very forces of life in riot . 
Next day she sent for an answer . 
M. le Marquis sent word that he would call on Mme la Duchesse , reported Julien . 
She fled lest her happiness should be seen in her face , and flung herself on her couch to devour her first sensations . 
He is coming ! The thought rent her soul . 
The constant putting forth of strength and longing , called suspense , is surely , to the human soul , as fragrance to the flower that breathes it forth . 
The Duchess learned the joys of this new life of hers through the rapture with which she received the scourgings of love . 
As this change wrought in her , she saw other destinies before her , and a better meaning in the things of life . 
As she hurried to her dressing room , she understood what studied adornment and the most minute attention to her toilet mean when these are undertaken for love's sake and not for vanity . 
Even now this making ready helped her to bear the long time of waiting . 
A relapse of intense agitation set in when she was dressed she passed through nervous paroxysms brought on by the dreadful power which sets the whole mind in ferment . 
Perhaps that power is only a disease , though the pain of it is sweet . 
The Duchess was dressed and waiting at two o clock in the afternoon . 
At half past eleven that night M. de Montriveau had not arrived . 
Can he be playing with me ? she said , as the clocks struck midnight . 
She grew white her teeth chattered she struck her hands together and leapt up and crossed the boudoir , recollecting as she did so how often he had come thither without a summons . 
If a woman goes beyond her beloved , she makes a mistake which few men can forgive almost every man would feel that a woman lowers herself by this piece of angelic flattery . 
But Armand's was a great nature he surely must be one of the very few who can repay such exceeding love by love that lasts forever . 
Well , I will make the advance , she told herself , as she tossed on her bed and found no sleep there I will go to him . 
I will not weary myself with holding out a hand to him , but I will hold it out . 
A man of a thousand will see a promise of love and constancy in every step that a woman takes towards him . 
Yes , the angels must come down from heaven to reach men and I wish to be an angel for him . 
It was a billet of the kind in which the intellects of the ten thousand Sevignes that Paris now can number particularly excel . 
Julien went with the note . 
Julien , like his kind , was the victim of love's marches and countermarches . 
What did M. de Montriveau reply ? she asked , as indifferently as she could , when the man came back to report himself . 
M. le Marquis requested me to tell Mme la Duchesse that it was all right . 
Mme de Langeais wrote again and again , and no answer came from Montriveau . 
At last she gave out that she was ill , to gain a dispensation from attendance on the Princess and from social duties . 
, and to her husband's uncle , the Duc de Grandlieu . 
These persons found no difficulty in believing that the Duchess was ill , seeing that she grew thinner and paler and more dejected every day . 
She was paying the arrears of her life of make believe . 
She went out at last to a review . 
M. de Montriveau was to be there . 
For the Duchess , on the balcony of the Tuileries with the Royal Family , it was one of those festival days that are long remembered . 
She looked supremely beautiful in her languor she was greeted with admiration in all eyes . 
It was Montriveau's presence that made her so fair . 
Once or twice they exchanged glances . 
The General came almost to her feet in all the glory of that soldier's uniform , which produces an effect upon the feminine imagination to which the most prudish will confess . 
Only women or young men can imagine the dull , frenzied hunger in the Duchess's eyes . 
Religious ecstasy is the aberration of a soul that has shaken off its bonds of flesh whereas in amorous ecstasy all the forces of soul and body are embraced and blended in one . 
Thought after thought rises and flits across her brain , as clouds are whirled by the wind across the grey veil of mist that shuts out the sun . 
Thenceforth the facts reveal all . 
And the facts are these . 
The first of these was the Baron de Maulincour . 
Some among them threw the blame on Armand . 
That savage of a Montriveau is a man of bronze , said they he insisted on making this scandal , no doubt . 
Very well , then , others replied , Mme de Langeais has been guilty of a most generous piece of imprudence . 
Not one of the women who blame the Duchess would make a declaration worthy of ancient times . 
It is heroic of Mme de Langeais to proclaim herself so frankly . 
Now there is nothing left to her but to love Montriveau . 
There must be something great about a woman if she says , I will have but one passion . 
But what is to become of society , monsieur , if you honour vice in this way without respect for virtue ? asked the Comtesse de Granville , the attorney general's wife . 
And Armand ? he had been out all night , and at that moment was walking with M. de Marsay in the Gardens of the Tuileries . 
To them , as to all curious enquirers , the servants said that their mistress was not at home the Duchess had made no exceptions to her orders . 
The Princesse de Blamont Chauvry , in the feminine world , was a most poetic wreck of the reign of Louis Quinze . 
In her beautiful prime , so it was said , she had done her part to win for that monarch his appellation of le Bien aime . 
Add a few powdered curls , high heeled pantoufles , a cap with upstanding loops of lace , black mittens , and a decided taste for ombre . 
, wore long gloves , and raddled her cheeks with Martin's classic rouge . 
The whole Cabinet des Chartes was entered in duplicate on the parchment of her brain . 
She knew all the genealogies of every noble house in Europe princes , dukes , and counts and could put her hand on the last descendants of Charlemagne in the direct line . 
No usurpation of title could escape the Princesse de Blamont Chauvry . 
Young men who wished to stand well at Court , ambitious men , and young married women paid her assiduous homage . 
Her salon set the tone of the Faubourg Saint Germain . 
The words of this Talleyrand in petticoats were taken as final decrees . 
People came to consult her on questions of etiquette or usages , or to take lessons in good taste . 
This curious antique , seated in a low chair by the fireside , was chatting with the Vidame de Pamiers , a contemporary ruin . 
The Vidame was a big , tall , and spare man , a seigneur of the old school , and had been a Commander of the Order of Malta . 
His wide prominent eyes seemed to see everything , and as a matter of fact there was not much that they had not seen . 
Altogether , his person was a perfect model of aristocratic outline , slim and slender , supple and agreeable . 
He seemed as if he could be pliant or rigid at will , and twist and bend , or rear his head like a snake . 
The Duc de Navarreins was pacing up and down the room with the Duc de Grandlieu . 
Such were the representatives of the great noblesse that determined to perish rather than submit to any change . 
Another noticeable trait in all the four was a thin voice that agreed peculiarly well with their ideas and bearing . 
Among themselves , at any rate , they were on terms of perfect equality . 
None of them betrayed any sign of annoyance over the Duchess's escapade , but all of them had learned at Court to hide their feelings . 
And , in truth , the tinsel jargon which circulates among the upper ranks in every country yields mighty little gold to the crucible when washed in the ashes of literature or philosophy . 
the curious observer finds folly a constant quantity beneath a more or less transparent varnish . 
Conversation with any substance in it is a rare exception , and boeotianism is current coin in every zone . 
In the higher regions they must perforce talk more , but to make up for it they think the less . 
Thinking is a tiring exercise , and the rich like their lives to flow by easily and without effort . 
In the eyes of the poet the advantage rests with the lower classes , for they seldom fail to give a certain character of rude poetry to their thoughts . 
The Duke suddenly stopped as if some bright idea occurred to him , and remarked to his neighbour So you have sold Tornthon ? No , he is ill . 
I am very much afraid I shall lose him , and I should be uncommonly sorry . 
He is a very good hunter . 
Do you know how the Duchesse de Marigny is ? No. I did not go this morning . 
I was just going out to call when you came in to speak about Antoinette . 
But yesterday she was very ill indeed they had given her up , she took the sacrament . 
Her death will make a change in your cousin's position . 
She gave away her property in her lifetime , only keeping an annuity . 
She made over the Guebriant estate to her niece , Mme de Soulanges , subject to a yearly charge . 
It will be a great loss for society . 
She was a kind woman . 
Her family will miss her her experience and advice carried weight . 
Her son Marigny is an amiable man he has a sharp wit , he can talk . 
He is pleasant , very pleasant . 
Pleasant ? oh , that no one can deny , but ill regulated to the last degree . 
Well , and yet it is an extraordinary thing , he is very acute . 
He was dining at the club the other day with that moneyed Chaussee d'Antin set . 
found him there to his astonishment , and asked if he was a member . 
Yes , said he , I don't go into society now I am living among the bankers . 
You know why ? added the Marquis , with a meaning smile . 
No , said the Duke . 
He is smitten with that little Mme Keller , Gondreville's daughter she is only lately married , and has a great vogue , they say , in that set . 
Well , Antoinette does not find time heavy on her hands , it seems , remarked the Vidame . 
My affection for that little woman has driven me to find a singular pastime , replied the Princess , as she returned her snuff box to her pocket . 
Dear aunt , I am extremely vexed , said the Duke , stopping short in his walk . 
Nobody but one of Buonaparte's men could ask such an indecorous thing of a woman of fashion . 
Between ourselves , Antoinette might have made a better choice . 
The Montriveaus are a very old family and very well connected , my dear , replied the Princess they are related to all the noblest houses of Burgundy . 
If the Dulmen branch of the Arschoot Rivaudoults should come to an end in Galicia , the Montriveaus would succeed to the Arschoot title and estates . 
They inherit through their great grandfather . 
Are you sure ? I know it better than this Montriveau's father did . 
I told him about it , I used to see a good deal of him and , Chevalier of several orders though he was , he only laughed he was an encyclopaedist . 
But his brother turned the relationship to good account during the emigration . 
I have heard it said that his northern kinsfolk were most kind in every way Yes , to be sure . 
The Comte de Montriveau died at St . 
Petersburg , said the Vidame . 
He was a big man with an incredible passion for oysters . 
However many did he eat ? asked the Duc de Grandlieu . 
And did they not disagree with him ? Not the least bit in the world . 
By accident ! Nature prompted him to eat oysters , so probably he required them for up to a certain point our predominant tastes are conditions of our existence . 
I am of your opinion , said the Princess , with a smile . 
Madame , you always put a malicious construction on things , returned the Marquis . 
Bah ! returned the Princess . 
What do you think , Vidame ? asked the Marquis . 
If the Duchess were an artless simpleton , I should think that But when a woman is in love she becomes an artless simpleton , retorted the Princess . 
Really , my poor Vidame , you must be getting older . 
After all , what is to be done ? asked the Duke . 
There are hundreds of ways of explaining things and if the Marquis de Montriveau is a gentleman , he will come to our assistance . 
We will bring these children to listen to reason But , dear aunt , it is not easy to tell M. de Montriveau the truth to his face . 
He is one of Buonaparte's pupils , and he has a position . 
Why , he is one of the great men of the day he is high up in the Guards , and very useful there . 
He has not a spark of ambition . 
He is just the man to say , Here is my commission , leave me in peace , if the King should say a word that he did not like . 
Then , pray , what are his opinions ? Very unsound . 
Really , sighed the Princess , the King is , as he always has been , a Jacobin under the Lilies of France . 
Oh ! not quite so bad , said the Vidame . 
Yes I have known him for a long while . 
I can see Monsieur exactly the same as ever in the King . 
The bad brother who voted so wrongly in his department of the Constituent Assembly was sure to compound with the Liberals and allow them to argue and talk . 
If the Guises had shown a little more resolution , His Majesty would be a nobody at this day . 
It is time I went out of this world , the noblesse is dead . 
Yes , it is all over with you , my children , she continued , looking as she spoke at the Vidame . 
She had recognised her aunt's voice and heard the name of Montriveau . 
The Duke took his daughter's face in both hands and kissed her on the forehead . 
My dear Antoinette , you were at home all the time , were you not ? said the Princess , holding out a hand , which the Duchess kissed with affectionate respect . 
Yes , dear mother I was at home all the time . 
And , she added , as she turned to greet the Vidame and the Marquis , I wished that all Paris should think that I was with M. de Montriveau . 
The Duke flung up his hands , struck them together in despair , and folded his arms . 
Then , cannot you see what will come of this mad freak ? he asked at last . 
But the aged Princess had suddenly risen , and stood looking steadily at the Duchess , the younger woman flushed , and her eyes fell . 
We are not under the Valois now , dear child . 
You have compromised your husband and your position . 
Still , we will arrange to make everything right . 
But , dear aunt , I do not wish to make it right at all . 
It is my wish that all Paris should say that I was with M. de Montriveau this morning . 
If you destroy that belief , however ill grounded it may be , you will do me a singular disservice . 
You may , perhaps , blame me for seeking alleviations , but you will certainly feel for me . 
After all the endless pains you take to settle your daughters suitably ! muttered M. de Navarreins , addressing the Vidame . 
The Princess shook a stray grain of snuff from her skirts . 
My dear little girl , she said , be happy , if you can . 
We are not talking of troubling your felicity , but of reconciling it with social usages . 
We all of us here assembled know that marriage is a defective institution tempered by love . 
So I am not here to talk about my nephew , but of your own interests . 
Let us look ahead a little . 
The income of a hundred thousand livres that you have just inherited from your maternal great aunt will go to pay for his mistresses' amusements . 
You will be bound and gagged by the law you will have to say Amen to all these arrangements . 
I am supposing that you are happy and loved to the end , and I am leaving unpleasant or unfortunate events altogether out of the reckoning . 
This being so , fortunately or unfortunately , you may have children . 
What are they to be ? Montriveaus ? Very well they certainly will not succeed to their father's whole fortune . 
You will want to give them all that you have he will wish to do the same . 
Nothing more natural , dear me ! And you will find the law against you . 
How many times have we seen heirs at law bringing a law suit to recover the property from illegitimate children ? Every court of law rings with such actions all over the world . 
You will create a fidei commissum perhaps and if the trustee betrays your confidence , your children have no remedy against him and they are ruined . 
You see the perplexities of the position . 
In every possible way your children will be sacrificed of necessity to the fancies of your heart they will have no recognised status . 
While they are little they will be charming but , Lord ! some day they will reproach you for thinking of no one but your two selves . 
We old gentlemen know all about it . 
Little boys grow up into men , and men are ungrateful beings . 
IF brought about the Revolution . 
When a man cannot lay the blame on his father or mother , he holds God responsible for his hard lot . 
In short , dear child , we are here to open your eyes . 
I will say all I have to say in a few words , on which you had better meditate A woman ought never to put her husband in the right . 
Uncle , so long as I cared for nobody , I could calculate I looked at interests then , as you do now , I can only feel . 
And what have we been asking you to do to keep them all ? To manoeuvre carefully instead of falling foul of social conventions . 
The Duchess silenced the Vidame with a look if Montriveau could have seen that glance , he would have forgiven all . 
It would be very effective on the stage , remarked the Duc de Grandlieu , but it all amounts to nothing when your jointure and position and independence is concerned . 
You are not grateful , my dear niece . 
You will not find many families where the relatives have courage enough to teach the wisdom gained by experience , and to make rash young heads listen to reason . 
Renounce your salvation in two minutes , if it pleases you to damn yourself well and good but reflect well beforehand when it comes to renouncing your income . 
I know of no confessor who remits the pains of poverty . 
I have a right , I think , to speak in this way to you for if you are ruined , I am the one person who can offer you a refuge . 
I am almost an uncle to Langeais , and I alone have a right to put him in the wrong . 
The Duc de Navarreins roused himself from painful reflections . 
You would not be alone in your dishonour Come , come ! said the Princess . 
Dishonour ? Do not make such a fuss about the journey of an empty carriage , children , and leave me alone with Antoinette . 
Ail three of you come and dine with me . 
I will undertake to arrange matters suitably . 
You men understand nothing you are beginning to talk sourly already , and I have no wish to see a quarrel between you and my dear child . 
Do me the pleasure to go . 
The three gentlemen probably guessed the Princess's intentions they took their leave . 
M. de Navarreins kissed his daughter on the forehead with , Come , be good , dear child . 
It is not too late yet if you choose . 
Couldn't we find some good fellow in the family to pick a quarrel with this Montriveau ? said the Vidame , as they went downstairs . 
When the two women were alone , the Princess beckoned her niece to a little low chair by her side . 
Novelists and scribblers brought the reign of Louis XV into disrepute . 
The du Barry , my dear , was quite as good as the Widow Scarron , and the more agreeable woman of the two . 
In my time a woman could keep her dignity among her gallantries . 
Indiscretion was the ruin of us , and the beginning of all the mischief . 
The people are not in a position to judge of anything whatsoever they looked at the facts , not at the form . 
But the men and women of those times , my heart , were quite as remarkable as at any other period of the Monarchy . 
These modern gentlemen are worth less , and think more of themselves . 
Believe me , my dear , all these adventures that have been made public , and now are turned against our good Louis XV , were kept quite secret at first . 
I am justifying the century and not its fringe . 
And in any case I do not know that the Revolution and the Empire can reproach us they were coarse , dull , licentious times . 
Faugh ! it is revolting . 
Those are the brothels of French history . 
This preamble , my dear child , she continued after a pause , brings me to the thing that I have to say . 
If you care for Montriveau , you are quite at liberty to love him at your ease , and as much as you can . 
, you will do as you please I should have done the same at your age . 
Only , sweetheart , I should not have given up my right to be the mother of future Ducs de Langeais . 
No man is worth a single one of the sacrifices which we are foolish enough to make for their love . 
Put yourself in such a position that you may still be M. de Langeais's wife , in case you should have the misfortune to repent . 
When you are an old woman , you will be very glad to hear mass said at Court , and not in some provincial convent . 
Therein lies the whole question . 
It would be a hundred times better to go to Montriveau's at night in a cab , and disguised , instead of sending your carriage in broad daylight . 
You are a little fool , my dear child ! Your carriage flattered his vanity your person would have ensnared his heart . 
All this that I have said is just and true but , for my own part , I do not blame you . 
You are two centuries behind the times with your false ideas of greatness . 
In Heaven's name , aunt , do not slander him ! The old Princess's eyes flashed . 
Dear child , she said , I should have liked to spare such of your illusions as were not fatal . 
But there must be an end of all illusions now . 
You would soften me if I were not so old . 
Come , now , do not vex him , or us , or anyone else . 
I will undertake to satisfy everybody but promise me not to permit yourself a single step henceforth until you have consulted me . 
Tell me all , and perhaps I may bring it all right again . 
Aunt , I promise To tell me everything ? Yes , everything . 
Everything that can be told . 
But , my sweetheart , it is precisely what cannot be told that I want to know . 
Let us understand each other thoroughly . 
Come , let me put my withered old lips on your beautiful forehead . 
No let me do as I wish . 
I forbid you to kiss my bones . 
Old people have a courtesy of their own . 
There , take me down to my carriage , she added , when she had kissed her niece . 
Then may I go to him in disguise , dear aunt ? Why yes . 
The story can always be denied , said the old Princess . 
This was the one idea which the Duchess had clearly grasped in the sermon . 
When Mme de Chauvry was seated in the corner of her carriage , Mme de Langeais bade her a graceful adieu and went up to her room . 
She was quite happy again . 
My person would have snared his heart my aunt is right a man cannot surely refuse a pretty woman when she understands how to offer herself . 
So many officers and other persons had seen Montriveau walking in the Tuileries that morning , that the silly story was set down to chance , which takes all that is offered . 
But , at two o'clock , M. de Ronquerolles passed Montriveau in a deserted alley , and said with a smile , She is coming on , is your Duchess . 
Go on , keep it up ! he added , and gave a significant cut of the riding whip to his mare , who sped off like a bullet down the avenue . 
Two days after the fruitless scandal , Mme de Langeais wrote to M. de Montriveau . 
That letter , like the preceding ones , remained unanswered . 
This time she took her own measures , and bribed M. de Montriveau's man , Auguste . 
And so at eight o'clock that evening she was introduced into Armand's apartment . 
It was not the room in which that secret scene had passed it was entirely different . 
The Duchess was told that the General would not be at home that night . 
Had he two houses ? The man would give no answer . 
Mme de Langeais had bought the key of the room , but not the man's whole loyalty . 
When she was left alone she saw her fourteen letters lying on an old fashioned stand , all of them uncreased and unopened . 
He had not read them . 
She sank into an easy chair , and for a while she lost consciousness . 
When she came to herself , Auguste was holding vinegar for her to inhale . 
A carriage quick ! she ordered . 
She hastened downstairs with convulsive speed , and left orders that no one was to be admitted . 
For twenty four hours she lay in bed , and would have no one near her but her woman , who brought her a cup of orange flower water from time to time . 
Suzette heard her mistress moan once or twice , and caught a glimpse of tears in the brilliant eyes , now circled with dark shadows . 
The next day , amid despairing tears , Mme de Langeais took her resolution . 
Her man of business came for an interview , and no doubt received instructions of some kind . 
Afterwards she sent for the Vidame de Pamiers and while she waited , she wrote a letter to M. de Montriveau . 
You owe this assignation to your eighty four years , dear cousin , she said . 
Ah ! do not smile , I beg of you , when an unhappy woman has reached the lowest depths of wretchedness . 
You are a gentleman , and after the adventures of your youth you must feel some indulgence for women . 
None whatever , said he . 
Indeed ! Everything is in their favour . 
I beg of you to do my bidding , and then to forget what you have done , whatever may come of it . 
Certain feelings men hide from each other . 
I give you authority to say , if you think it necessary to bring him , that it is a question of life or death for me . 
If he deigns DEIGNS ! repeated the Vidame . 
If he deigns to read it , the Duchess continued with dignity , say one thing more . 
You will go to see him about five o'clock , for I know that he will dine at home today at that time . 
By way of answer he must come to see me . 
If , three hours afterwards , by eight o'clock , he does not leave his house , all will be over . 
The Duchesse de Langeais will have vanished from the world . 
I shall not be dead , dear friend , no , but no human power will ever find me again on this earth . 
Come and dine with me I shall at least have one friend with me in the last agony . 
Yes , dear cousin , tonight will decide my fate and whatever happens to me , I pass through an ordeal by fire . 
There ! not a word . 
I will hear nothing of the nature of comment or advice Let us chat and laugh together , she added , holding out a hand , which he kissed . 
We will be like two grey headed philosophers who have learned how to enjoy life to the last moment . 
I will look my best I will be very enchanting for you . 
You perhaps will be the last man to set eyes on the Duchesse de Langeais . 
The Vicomte bowed , took the letter , and went without a word . 
At five o'clock he returned . 
His cousin had studied to please him , and she looked lovely indeed . 
The room was gay with flowers as if for a festivity the dinner was exquisite . 
For the grey headed Vidame the Duchess displayed all the brilliancy of her wit she was more charming than she had ever been before . 
He detected a shudder caused by some kind of sudden dread , and once she seemed to listen during a pause . 
What is the matter ? he asked . 
At seven o'clock the Duchess left him for a few minutes . 
When she came back again she was dressed as her maid might have dressed for a journey . 
She asked her guest to be her escort , took his arm , sprang into a hackney coach , and by a quarter to eight they stood outside M. de Montriveau's door . 
Armand meantime had been reading the following letter MY FRIEND , I went to your rooms for a few minutes without your knowledge I found my letters there , and took them away . 
This cannot be indifference , Armand , between us and hatred would show itself quite differently . 
If I have not rightly understood you , if you have no feeling towards me but aversion , which implies both contempt and disgust , then I give up all hope . 
A man never recovers from those feelings . 
You will have no regrets . 
Dreadful though that thought may be , it will comfort me in my long sorrow . 
The eyes that you loved for a little while shall never look on another man's face and may the glory of God blind them to all besides . 
And now may the will of God consume me . 
Between His wrath and yours , my friend , there will be nothing left for me but a little space for tears and prayers . 
I am in a hideous position . 
I feel all the inward serenity that comes when a great resolution has been taken , even while I hear the last growlings of the storm . 
Well , I am going out of the oasis into the desert , and you are a pitiless guide to me . 
If you grant my entreaty , I shall be happy if you are inexorable , I shall expiate the wrong that I have done . 
Your harshness led me to reflect and now that I love you so , it seems to me that I am less guilty than you think . 
Listen to my justification , I owe it to you and you that are all the world to me , owe me at least a moment's justice . 
I have learned by my own anguish all that I made you suffer by my coquetry but in those days I was utterly ignorant of love . 
YOU know what the torture is , and you mete it out to me ! During those first eight months that you gave me you never roused any feeling of love in me . 
Do you ask why this was so , my friend ? I can no more explain it than I can tell you why I love you now . 
Oh ! certainly it flattered my vanity that I should be the subject of your passionate talk , and receive those burning glances of yours but you left me cold . 
No , I was not a woman I had no conception of womanly devotion and happiness . 
You will never know what they confessed all the love and the passion and the madness I will say no more , Armand I will stop . 
I will not say another word of my feelings . 
If my prayers have not echoed from my soul through yours , I also , woman that I am , decline to owe your love to your pity . 
It is my wish to be loved , because you cannot choose but love me , or else to be left without mercy . 
If you refuse to read this letter , it shall be burnt . 
The Duchesse de la Valliere wept for lost happiness and vanished power but the Duchesse de Langeais will be happy that she may weep and be a power for you still . 
Yes , you will regret me . 
I see clearly that I was not of this world , and I thank you for making it clear to me . 
Farewell you will never touch MY axe . 
Yours was the executioner's axe , mine is God's yours kills , mine saves . 
Your love was but mortal , it could not endure disdain or ridicule mine can endure all things without growing weaker , it will last eternally . 
I have a presentiment of your answer our trysting place shall be in heaven . 
Strength and weakness can both enter there , dear Armand the strong and the weak are bound to suffer . 
This thought soothes the anguish of my final ordeal . 
So calm am I that I should fear that I had ceased to love you if I were not about to leave the world for your sake . 
Dear Vidame , said the Duchess as they reached Montriveau's house , do me the kindness to ask at the door whether he is at home . 
She grasped his hand tightly in hers , suffered him to kiss her on either cheek , and begged him to go at once . 
He must not watch her movements nor try to protect her . 
But the people passing in the street , he objected . 
No one can fail in respect to me , she said . 
It was the last word spoken by the Duchess and the woman of fashion . 
Mme de Langeais wrapped herself about in her cloak , and stood on the doorstep until the clocks struck eight . 
The last stroke died away . 
The unhappy woman waited ten , fifteen minutes to the last she tried to see a fresh humiliation in the delay , then her faith ebbed . 
She turned to leave the fatal threshold . 
Oh , God ! the cry broke from her in spite of herself it was the first word spoken by the Carmelite . 
Montriveau and some of his friends were talking together . 
Then she hailed a cab , and drove away , never to return . 
When the Marquis de Montriveau reached the Hotel de Langeais , and found no trace of his mistress , he thought that he had been duped . 
He hurried away at once to the Vidame , and found that worthy gentleman in the act of slipping on his flowered dressing gown , thinking the while of his fair cousin's happiness . 
Montriveau gave him one of the terrific glances that produced the effect of an electric shock on men and women alike . 
Is it possible that you have lent yourself to some cruel hoax , monsieur ? Montriveau exclaimed . 
I have just come from Mme de Langeais's house the servants say that she is out . 
Then a great misfortune has happened , no doubt , returned the Vidame , and through your fault . 
I left the Duchess at your door When ? At a quarter to eight . 
Good evening , returned Montriveau , and he hurried home to ask the porter whether he had seen a lady standing on the doorstep that evening . 
Yes , my Lord Marquis , a handsome woman , who seemed very much put out . 
She was crying like a Magdalen , but she never made a sound , and stood as upright as a post . 
Montriveau , in spite of all his firmness , turned pale at those few words . 
He wrote a few lines to Ronquerolles , sent off the message at once , and went up to his rooms . 
Ronquerolles came just about midnight . 
Armand gave him the Duchess's letter to read . 
She was here at my door at eight o'clock at a quarter past eight she had gone . 
I have lost her , and I love her . 
Oh ! if my life were my own , I could blow my brains out . 
Pooh , pooh ! Keep cool , said Ronquerolles . 
Duchesses do not fly off like wagtails . 
She cannot travel faster than three leagues an hour , and tomorrow we will ride six . 
Confound it ! Mme de Langeais is no ordinary woman , he continued . 
Tomorrow we will all of us mount and ride . 
The police will put us on her track during the day . 
She must have a carriage angels of that sort have no wings . 
We shall find her whether she is on the road or hidden in Paris . 
But , my dear fellow , you have made a blunder , of which men of your energy are very often guilty . 
They judge others by themselves , and do not know the point when human nature gives way if you strain the cords too tightly . 
Why did you not say a word to me sooner ? I would have told you to be punctual . 
Good bye till tomorrow , he added , as Montriveau said nothing . 
Sleep if you can , he added , with a grasp of the hand . 
Neither Montriveau nor his friends could find any trace of the Duchess . 
It was clear that she had entered a convent . 
Montriveau determined to search , or to institute a search , for her through every convent in the world . 
He must have her , even at the cost of all the lives in a town . 
And in justice to this extraordinary man , it must be said that his frenzied passion awoke to the same ardour daily and lasted through five years . 
In the Duc de Langeais was dead , and his wife was free . 
Antoinette de Navarreins was living , consumed by love , on a ledge of rock in the Mediterranean but it was in the Pope's power to dissolve Sister Theresa's vows . 
The happiness bought by so much love might yet bloom for the two lovers . 
These thoughts sent Montriveau flying from Cadiz to Marseilles , and from Marseilles to Paris . 
A few months after his return to France , a merchant brig , fitted out and munitioned for active service , set sail from the port of Marseilles for Spain . 
Twenty fours hours later the brig lay to off the north west shore of an island within sight of the Spanish coast . 
Montriveau hoisted the flag of the United States before they came in sight of the island , and the crew of the vessel were all American sailors , who spoke nothing but English . 
One of M. de Montriveau's companions took the men ashore in the ship's longboat , and made them so drunk at an inn in the little town that they could not talk . 
The presence of the brig among the reefs was now sufficiently explained . 
The owners of the vessel , according to the self styled boatswain's mate , were looking for the wreck of a galleon which foundered thereabouts in with a cargo of treasure from Mexico . 
The people at the inn and the authorities asked no more questions . 
Wherefore these bold spirits , with one accord , determined to take the bull by the horns . 
They would make a way to the convent at the most seemingly inaccessible point like General Lamarque , at the storming of Capri , they would conquer Nature . 
The cliff at the end of the island , a sheer block of granite , afforded even less hold than the rock of Capri . 
So it seemed at least to Montriveau , who had taken part in that incredible exploit , while the nuns in his eyes were much more redoubtable than Sir Hudson Lowe . 
To raise a hubbub over carrying off the Duchess would cover them with confusion . 
They might as well set siege to the town and convent , like pirates , and leave not a single soul to tell of their victory . 
So for them their expedition wore but two aspects . 
An extremely light pirogue , made at Marseilles on a Malayan model , enabled them to cross the reef , until the rocks rose from out of the water . 
Then two cables of iron wire were fastened several feet apart between one rock and another . 
The Chinese , an essentially imitative people , were the first to take a lesson from the work of instinct . 
Against this cunningly devised line the angry surge is powerless the law of that curve was a secret wrested from Nature by that faculty of observation in which nearly all human genius consists . 
M. de Montriveau's companions were alone on board the vessel , and out of sight of every human eye . 
Eleven days were spent in preparation , before the Thirteen , with all their infernal power , could reach the foot of the cliffs . 
The body of the rock rose up straight from the sea to a height of thirty fathoms . 
Any attempt to climb the sheer wall of granite seemed impossible a mouse might as well try to creep up the slippery sides of a plain china vase . 
Still there was a cleft , a straight line of fissure so fortunately placed that large blocks of wood could be wedged firmly into it at a distance of about a foot apart . 
Into these blocks the daring workers drove iron cramps , specially made for the purpose , with a broad iron bracket at the outer end , through which a hole had been drilled . 
That miraculously light , yet perfectly firm , staircase cost them twenty two days of toil . 
A little tinder and the surf of the sea would destroy all trace of it forever in a single night . 
A betrayal of the secret was impossible and all search for the violators of the convent was doomed to failure . 
At the top of the rock there was a platform with sheer precipice on all sides . 
After such great efforts they would not risk the success of their enterprise , and were compelled to wait till the moon passed out of her last quarter . 
For two nights Montriveau , wrapped in his cloak , lay out on the rock platform . 
The singing at vespers and matins filled him with unutterable joy . 
He stood under the wall to hear the music of the organ , listening intently for one voice among the rest . 
But in spite of the silence , the confused effect of music was all that reached his ears . 
All the love within him seemed to break into blossom again at the breath of that music he tried to find auguries of happiness in the air . 
During the last night he sat with his eyes fixed upon an ungrated window , for bars were not needed on the side of the precipice . 
In some faces love awakens amid the wrinkles carved by sorrow and the ruin made by melancholy Montriveau could not but feel drawn to these . 
The General left his post before sunrise , but not before he had heard voices singing together , sweet voices full of tenderness sounding faintly from the cell . 
That night eleven of his devoted comrades made the ascent in the darkness . 
Each man carried a poniard , a provision of chocolate , and a set of house breaking tools . 
They climbed the outer walls with scaling ladders , and crossed the cemetery of the convent . 
Montriveau recognised the long , vaulted gallery through which he went to the parlour , and remembered the windows of the room . 
His plans were made and adopted in a moment . 
In two hours the bars were sawn through . 
Three men stood on guard outside , and two inside the parlour . 
The rest , barefooted , took up their posts along the corridor . 
The clock struck three just as the two men reached the dormitory cells . 
They soon saw the position . 
Montriveau reached Sister Theresa's door and read the inscription , Sub invocatione sanctae matris Theresae , and her motto , Adoremus in aeternum . 
Suddenly his companion laid a hand on his shoulder . 
A bright light was streaming through the chinks of the door . 
M. de Ronquerolles came up at that moment . 
All the nuns are in the church , he said they are beginning the Office for the Dead . 
I will stay here , said Montriveau . 
Go back into the parlour , and shut the door at the end of the passage . 
He threw open the door and rushed in , preceded by his disguised companion , who let down the veil over his face . 
There before them lay the dead Duchess her plank bed had been laid on the floor of the outer room of her cell , between two lighted candles . 
Neither Montriveau nor de Marsay spoke a word or uttered a cry but they looked into each other's faces . 
The General's dumb gesture tried to say , Let us carry her away ! Quickly shouted Ronquerolles , the procession of nuns is leaving the church . 
By nine o'clock that morning there was not a sign to show that either staircase or wire cables had ever existed , and Sister Theresa's body had been taken on board . 
The brig came into the port to ship her crew , and sailed that day . 
Montriveau , down in the cabin , was left alone with Antoinette de Navarreins . 
For some hours it seemed as if her dead face was transfigured for him by that unearthly beauty which the calm of death gives to the body before it perishes . 
Look here , said Ronquerolles when Montriveau reappeared on deck , THAT was a woman once , now it is nothing . 
Yes , assented Montriveau , it is nothing now but a dream . 
That is sensible of you . 
