The Death of the Lion by Henry James Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
Mr. Pinhorn was my chief , as he was called in the office he had the high mission of bringing the paper up . 
This was a weekly periodical , which had been supposed to be almost past redemption when he took hold of it . 
It was Mr. Deedy who had let the thing down so dreadfully he was never mentioned in the office now save in connexion with that misdemeanour . 
I could account for my continuity but on the supposition that I had been cheap . 
At the same time I was aware of my exposure to suspicion as a product of the old lowering system . 
Call it that if you like . 
And what's your inducement ? Bless my soul my admiration ! Mr. Pinhorn pursed up his mouth . 
Is there much to be done with him ? Whatever there is we should have it all to ourselves , for he hasn't been touched . 
This argument was effective and Mr. Pinhorn responded . 
Very well , touch him . 
Then he added But where can you do it ? Under the fifth rib ! Mr. Pinhorn stared . 
Where's that ? You want me to go down and see him ? I asked when I had enjoyed his visible search for the obscure suburb I seemed to have named . 
I don't 'want' anything the proposal's your own . 
But you must remember that that's the way we do things NOW , said Mr. Pinhorn with another dig Mr. Deedy . 
Unregenerate as I was I could read the queer implications of this speech . 
The present owner's superior virtue as well as his deeper craft spoke in his reference to the late editor as one of that baser sort who deal in false representations . 
It was as if Mr. Deedy had published reports without his young men's having , as Pinhorn would have said , really been there . 
Really to be there this time moreover was a vision that made the idea of writing something subtle about Neil Paraday only the more inspiring . 
I would be as considerate as even Mr. Deedy could have wished , and yet I should be as present as only Mr. Pinhorn could conceive . 
It struck him as inconsistent with the success of his paper that any one should be so sequestered as that . 
I had succeeded better than I wished , and I had , as it happened , work nearer at hand . 
A few days later I called on Lord Crouchley and carried off in triumph the most unintelligible statement that had yet appeared of his lordship's reasons for his change of front . 
I thus set in motion in the daily papers columns of virtuous verbiage . 
If ever an article flowed from the primal fount it was that article on Mrs. Bounder . 
He bundled me off we would at least not lose another . 
I've always thought his sudden alertness a remarkable example of the journalistic instinct . 
Nothing had occurred , since I first spoke to him , to create a visible urgency , and no enlightenment could possibly have reached him . 
It was a pure case of profession flair he had smelt the coming glory as an animal smells its distant prey . 
I MAY as well say at once that this little record pretends in no degree to be a picture either of my introduction to Mr. Paraday or of certain proximate steps and stages . 
The scheme of my narrative allows no space for these things , and in any case a prohibitory sentiment would hang about my recollection of so rare an hour . 
The curtain fell lately enough on the lamentable drama . 
Some voice of the air had taught me the right moment , the moment of his life at which an act of unexpected young allegiance might most come home to him . 
He had recently recovered from a long , grave illness . 
I had gone to the neighbouring inn for the night , but I spent the evening in his company , and he insisted the next day on my sleeping under his roof . 
I hadn't an indefinite leave Mr. Pinhorn supposed us to put our victims through on the gallop . 
It was later , in the office , that the rude motions of the jig were set to music . 
Then thinking to commend myself to Mr. Pinhorn by my celerity , I walked out and posted my little packet before luncheon . 
There was nothing he loved so much as to print on the right occasion a thing he hated . 
I had begun my visit to the great man on a Monday , and on the Wednesday his book came out . 
That was the meaning of the question , if not exactly its form , and it made my mistake immense to me . 
Such as this mistake was I could now only look it in the face and accept it . 
I knew where I had failed , but it was exactly where I couldn't have succeeded . 
approached the subject of our enterprise only to stand off so helplessly . 
For myself , I knew but too well what had happened , and how a miracle as pretty as some old miracle of legend had been wrought on the spot to save me . 
He held me only till the danger was over , and it all took place in a minute . 
It was the written scheme of another book something put aside long ago , before his illness , but that he had lately taken out again to reconsider . 
He had been turning it round when I came down on him , and it had grown magnificently under this second hand . 
Loose liberal confident , it might have passed for a great gossiping eloquent letter the overflow into talk of an artist's amorous plan . 
I remember rather profanely wondering whether the ultimate production could possibly keep at the pitch . 
It was a high distinction simply to be told such things . 
I had never been so throbbingly present at such an unveiling . 
Time isn't what I've lacked hitherto the question hasn't been to find it , but to use it . 
Of course my illness made , while it lasted , a great hole but I dare say there would have been a hole at any rate . 
The earth we tread has more pockets than a billiard table . 
The great thing is now to keep on my feet . 
That's exactly what I mean . 
He was fifty years old , and his illness had been cruel , his convalescence slow . 
It isn't as if I weren't all right . 
Oh if you weren't all right I wouldn't look at you ! I tenderly said . 
We had both got up , quickened as by this clearer air , and he had lighted a cigarette . 
I had taken a fresh one , which with an intenser smile , by way of answer to my exclamation , he applied to the flame of his match . 
If I weren't better I shouldn't have thought of THAT ! He flourished his script in his hand . 
I don't want to be discouraging , but that's not true , I returned . 
I'm sure that during the months you lay here in pain you had visitations sublime . 
You thought of a thousand things . 
You think of more and more all the while . 
That's what makes you , if you'll pardon my familiarity , so respectable . 
At a time when so many people are spent you come into your second wind . 
But , thank God , all the same , you're better ! Thank God , too , you're not , as you were telling me yesterday , 'successful . 
If YOU weren't a failure what would be the use of trying ? That's my one reserve on the subject of your recovery that it makes you 'score , as the newspapers say . 
It looks well in the newspapers , and almost anything that does that's horrible . 
'We are happy to announce that Mr. Paraday , the celebrated author , is again in the enjoyment of excellent health . 
Somehow I shouldn't like to see it . 
You won't see it I'm not in the least celebrated my obscurity protects me . 
But couldn't you bear even to see I was dying or dead ? my host enquired . 
Dead passe encore there's nothing so safe . 
One never knows what a living artist may do one has mourned so many . 
However , one must make the worst of it . 
You must be as dead as you can . 
Don't I meet that condition in having just published a book ? Adequately , let us hope for the book's verily a masterpiece . 
He allowed half his income to his wife , from whom he had succeeded in separating without redundancy of legend . 
I had a general faith in his having behaved well , and I had once , in London , taken Mrs. Paraday down to dinner . 
When I retraced my steps he had gone into the house , and the woman the second London post had come in had placed my letters and a newspaper on a bench . 
I sat down there to the letters , which were a brief business , and then , without heeding the address , took the paper from its envelope . 
It was the journal of highest renown , THE EMPIRE of that morning . 
It regularly came to Paraday , but I remembered that neither of us had yet looked at the copy already delivered . 
I instantly divined that THE EMPIRE had spoken of him , and I've not forgotten the odd little shock of the circumstance . 
It checked all eagerness and made me drop the paper a moment . 
As I sat there conscious of a palpitation I think I had a vision of what was to be . 
I had also a vision of the letter I would presently address to Mr. Pinhorn , breaking , as it were , with Mr. Pinhorn . 
Of course , however , the next minute the voice of THE EMPIRE was in my ears . 
The article wasn't , I thanked heaven , a review it was a leader , the last of three , presenting Neil Paraday to the human race . 
The guns had been booming these three hours in the house without our suspecting them . 
The big blundering newspaper had discovered him , and now he was proclaimed and anointed and crowned . 
The article was epoch making , a landmark in his life he had taken rank at a bound , waked up a national glory . 
A national glory was needed , and it was an immense convenience he was there . 
What all this meant rolled over me , and I fear I grew a little faint it meant so much more than I could say yea to on the spot . 
In a flash , somehow , all was different the tremendous wave I speak of had swept something away . 
It had knocked down , I suppose , my little customary altar , my twinkling tapers and my flowers , and had reared itself into the likeness of a temple vast and bare . 
When Neil Paraday should come out of the house he would come out a contemporary . 
That was what had happened the poor man was to be squeezed into his horrible age . 
I felt as if he had been overtaken on the crest of the hill and brought back to the city . 
A little more and he would have dipped down the short cut to posterity and escaped . 
This is Mr. Morrow , said Paraday , looking , I thought , rather white he wants to publish heaven knows what about me . 
I winced as I remembered that this was exactly what I myself had wanted . 
Already ? I cried with a sort of sense that my friend had fled to me for protection . 
I saw his momentum was irresistible . 
I was confident that I should be the first in the field . 
A great interest is naturally felt in Mr. Paraday's surroundings , he heavily observed . 
I hadn't the least idea of it , said Paraday , as if he had been told he had been snoring . 
I find he hasn't read the article in THE EMPIRE , Mr. Morrow remarked to me . 
That's so very interesting it's something to start with , he smiled . 
He had begun to pull off his gloves , which were violently new , and to look encouragingly round the little garden . 
As a surrounding I felt how I myself had already been taken in I was a little fish in the stomach of a bigger one . 
They would greatly appreciate any expression of his views on the subject of the art he so nobly exemplifies . 
I was honoured only last week , as a representative of THE TATLER , with the confidence of Guy Walsingham , the brilliant author of 'Obsessions . 
She pronounced herself thoroughly pleased with my sketch of her method she went so far as to say that I had made her genius more comprehensible even to herself . 
One had heard of unfortunate people's having a man in the house , and this was just what we had . 
Not because I had brought my mind back , but because our visitors last words were in my ear , I presently enquired with gloomy irrelevance if Guy Walsingham were a woman . 
Oh yes , a mere pseudonym rather pretty , isn't it ? and convenient , you know , for a lady who goes in for the larger latitude . 
'Obsessions , by Miss So and so , would look a little odd , but men are more naturally indelicate . 
Have you peeped into 'Obsessions' ? Mr. Morrow continued sociably to our companion . 
Imperturbably bland , he was a man of resources he only needed to be on the spot . 
He had pocketed the whole poor place while Paraday and I were wool gathering , and I could imagine that he had already got his heads . 
His system , at any rate , was justified by the inevitability with which I replied , to save my friend the trouble Dear no he hasn't read it . 
He doesn't read such things ! I unwarily added . 
Things that are TOO far over the fence , eh ? I was indeed a godsend to Mr. Morrow . 
There's no point on which distinguished views are so acceptable as on this question raised perhaps more strikingly than ever by Guy Walsingham of the permissibility of the larger latitude . 
I've an appointment , precisely in connexion with it , next week , with Dora Forbes , author of 'The Other Way Round , which everybody's talking about . 
Has Mr. Paraday glanced at 'The Other Way Round' ? Mr. Morrow now frankly appealed to me . 
I took on myself to repudiate the supposition , while our companion , still silent , got up nervously and walked away . 
His visitor paid no heed to his withdrawal but opened out the note book with a more fatherly pat . 
Dora Forbes , I gather , takes the ground , the same as Guy Walsingham's , that the larger latitude has simply got to come . 
He holds that it has got to be squarely faced . 
Of course his sex makes him a less prejudiced witness . 
But an authoritative word from Mr. Paraday from the point of view of HIS sex , you know would go right round the globe . 
He takes the line that we HAVEN'T got to face it ? I was bewildered it sounded somehow as if there were three sexes . 
My interlocutor's pencil was poised , my private responsibility great . 
I simply sat staring , none the less , and only found presence of mind to say Is this Miss Forbes a gentleman ? Mr. Morrow had a subtle smile . 
It wouldn't be 'Miss' there's a wife ! I mean is she a man ? The wife ? Mr. Morrow was for a moment as confused as myself . 
He goes in for the slight mystification because the ladies are such popular favourites . 
A great deal of interest is felt in his acting on that idea which IS clever , isn't it ? and there's every prospect of its being widely imitated . 
His young friend might be trusted to answer for him , but he hoped Mr. Morrow didn't expect great things even of his young friend . 
My cab was at the door twenty minutes after THE EMPIRE had been laid on my breakfast table . 
Now what have you got for me ? he continued , dropping again into his chair , from which , however , he the next moment eagerly rose . 
He wouldn't be lying down on his study table ? There's a great interest always felt in the scene of an author's labours . 
Sometimes we're favoured with very delightful peeps . 
No , no we shan't get at his life that way , I said . 
His life's here , I went on , and I'm so full of this admirable thing that I can't talk of anything else . 
The artist's life's his work , and this is the place to observe him . 
What he has to tell us he tells us with THIS perfection . 
My dear sir , the best interviewer is the best reader . 
Mr. Morrow good humouredly protested . 
Do you mean to say that no other source of information should be open to us ? None other till this particular one by far the most copious has been quite exhausted . 
It's the course to which the artist himself at every step , and with such pathetic confidence , refers us . 
This last book of Mr. Paraday's is full of revelations . 
Revelations ? panted Mr. Morrow , whom I had forced again into his chair . 
The only kind that count . 
It tells you with a perfection that seems to me quite final all the author thinks , for instance , about the advent of the 'larger latitude . 
Where does it do that ? asked Mr. Morrow , who had picked up the second volume and was insincerely thumbing it . 
Everywhere in the whole treatment of his case . 
Extract the opinion , disengage the answer those are the real acts of homage . 
Mr. Morrow , after a minute , tossed the book away . 
Ah but you mustn't take me for a reviewer . 
These pages overflow with the testimony we want let us read them and taste them and interpret them . 
Take up your book again and let me listen , while you pay it out , to that wonderful fifteenth chapter . 
If you feel you can't do it justice , compose yourself to attention while I produce for you I think I can ! this scarcely less admirable ninth . 
Even the poor roses were common kinds . 
Presently his eyes fell on the manuscript from which Paraday had been reading to me and which still lay on the bench . 
As my own followed them I saw it looked promising , looked pregnant , as if it gently throbbed with the life the reader had given it . 
Mr. Morrow indulged in a nod at it and a vague thrust of his umbrella . 
What's that ? Oh , it's a plan a secret . 
A secret ! There was an instant's silence , and then Mr. Morrow made another movement . 
An instant later Mr. Morrow quitted me abruptly , as if he had really carried something off with him . 
To reassure myself , watching his broad back recede , I only grasped my manuscript the tighter . 
He went to the back door of the house , the one he had come out from , but on trying the handle he appeared to find it fastened . 
So he passed round into the front garden , and by listening intently enough I could presently hear the outer gate close behind him with a bang . 
I thought again of the thirty seven influential journals and wondered what would be his revenge . 
I hasten to add that he was magnanimous which was just the most dreadful thing he could have been . 
A WEEK later , early in May , my glorified friend came up to town , where , it may be veraciously recorded he was the king of the beasts of the year . 
No advancement was ever more rapid , no exaltation more complete , no bewilderment more teachable . 
His book sold but moderately , though the article in THE EMPIRE had done unwonted wonders for it but he circulated in person to a measure that the libraries might well have envied . 
His formula had been found he was a revelation . 
His momentary terror had been real , just as mine had been the overclouding of his passionate desire to be left to finish his work . 
He was far from unsociable , but he had the finest conception of being let alone that I've ever met . 
Observation too was a kind of work and experience a kind of success London dinners were all material and London ladies were fruitful toil . 
He once told me that he had had no personal life to speak of since his fortieth year , but had had more than was good for him before . 
Nothing could exceed her enthusiasm over her capture , and nothing could exceed the confused apprehensions it excited in me . 
I had an instinctive fear of her which I tried without effect to conceal from her victim , but which I let her notice with perfect impunity . 
Paraday heeded it , but she never did , for her conscience was that of a romping child . 
She was a blind violent force to which I could attach no more idea of responsibility than to the creaking of a sign in the wind . 
It was difficult to say what she conduced to but circulation . 
She was constructed of steel and leather , and all I asked of her for our tractable friend was not to do him to death . 
He had consented for a time to be of india rubber , but my thoughts were fixed on the day he should resume his shape or at least get back into his box . 
It was evidently all right , but I should be glad when it was well over . 
I had a special fear the impression was ineffaceable of the hour when , after Mr. Morrow's departure , I had found him on the sofa in his study . 
That pretext of indisposition had not in the least been meant as a snub to the envoy of THE TATLER he had gone to lie down in very truth . 
He had felt a pang of his old pain , the result of the agitation wrought in him by this forcing open of a new period . 
His old programme , his old ideal even had to be changed . 
Say what one would , success was a complication and recognition had to be reciprocal . 
The monastic life , the pious illumination of the missal in the convent cell were things of the gathered past . 
It didn't engender despair , but at least it required adjustment . 
Before I left him on that occasion we had passed a bargain , my part of which was that I should make it my business to take care of him . 
I should represent the interest in his work or otherwise expressed in his absence . 
One day in Sloane Street I found myself questioning Paraday's landlord , who had come to the door in answer to my knock . 
Two vehicles , a barouche and a smart hansom , were drawn up before the house . 
In the drawing room , sir ? Mrs. Weeks Wimbush . 
And in the dining room ? A young lady , sir waiting I think a foreigner . 
It was three o'clock , and on days when Paraday didn't lunch out he attached a value to these appropriated hours . 
On which days , however , didn't the dear man lunch out ? Mrs. Wimbush , at such a crisis , would have rushed round immediately after her own repast . 
No one took such an interest as herself in his doing only what was good for him , and she was always on the spot to see that he did it . 
She made appointments with him to discuss the best means of economising his time and protecting his privacy . 
because I had nothing , and all I had as yet achieved was to find myself also in the menagerie . 
THE young lady in the dining room had a brave face , black hair , blue eyes , and in her lap a big volume . 
I've come for his autograph , she said when I had explained to her that I was under bonds to see people for him when he was occupied . 
I've been waiting half an hour , but I'm prepared to wait all day . 
I don't know whether it was this that told me she was American , for the propensity to wait all day is not in general characteristic of her race . 
I was enlightened probably not so much by the spirit of the utterance as by some quality of its sound . 
At any rate I saw she had an individual patience and a lovely frock , together with an expression that played among her pretty features like a breeze among flowers . 
Putting her book on the table she showed me a massive album , showily bound and full of autographs of price . 
The collection of faded notes , of still more faded thoughts , of quotations , platitudes , signatures , represented a formidable purpose . 
I could only disclose my dread of it . 
Most people apply to Mr. Paraday by letter , you know . 
Yes , but he doesn't answer . 
Very true , I reflected the sort of letter you mean goes straight into the fire . 
I didn't add that I had convinced him he ought to . 
Isn't he then in danger of burning things of importance ? He would perhaps be so if distinguished men hadn't an infallible nose for nonsense . 
She looked at me a moment her face was sweet and gay . 
Do YOU burn without reading too ? in answer to which I assured her that if she'd trust me with her repository I'd see that Mr. Paraday should write his name in it . 
That's very well , but it wouldn't make me see him . 
Enough to have come from America for the purpose . 
All alone ? I don't see that that's exactly your business , but if it will make me more seductive I'll confess that I'm quite by myself . 
I had to come alone or not come at all . 
She was interesting I could imagine she had lost parents , natural protectors could conceive even she had inherited money . 
I was at a pass of my own fortunes when keeping hansoms at doors seemed to me pure swagger . 
As a trick of this bold and sensitive girl , however , it became romantic a part of the general romance of her freedom , her errand , her innocence . 
The confidence of young Americans was notorious , and I speedily arrived at a conviction that no impulse could have been more generous than the impulse that had operated here . 
I foresaw at that moment that it would make her my peculiar charge , just as circumstances had made Neil Paraday . 
She would be another person to look after , so that one's honour would be concerned in guiding her straight . 
She appeared to have had fruitful access to the great ones of the earth there were people moreover whose signatures she had presumably secured without a personal interview . 
She couldn't have worried George Washington and Friedrich Schiller and Hannah More . 
She met this argument , to my surprise , by throwing up the album without a pang . 
It wasn't even her own she was responsible for none of its treasures . 
It belonged to a girl friend in America , a young lady in a western city . 
This young lady had insisted on her bringing it , to pick up more autographs she thought they might like to see , in Europe , in what company they would be . 
Thus it was that my informant had encumbered herself with the ponderous tome but she hastened to assure me that this was the first time she had brought it out . 
For her visit to Mr. Paraday it had simply been a pretext . 
She didn't really care a straw that he should write his name what she did want was to look straight into his face . 
Oh yes , I'm a student of physiognomy . 
Do you mean , I pursued , that you've a passion for Mr. Paraday's books ? They've been everything to me and a little more beside I know them by heart . 
They've completely taken hold of me . 
There's no author about whom I'm in such a state as I'm in about Neil Paraday . 
Permit me to remark then , I presently returned , that you're one of the right sort . 
One of the enthusiasts ? Of course I am ! Oh there are enthusiasts who are quite of the wrong . 
I mean you're one of those to whom an appeal can be made . 
An appeal ? Her face lighted as if with the chance of some great sacrifice . 
If she was ready for one it was only waiting for her , and in a moment I mentioned it . 
Give up this crude purpose of seeing him ! Go away without it . 
That will be far better . 
She looked mystified , then turned visibly pale . 
Why , hasn't he any personal charm ? The girl was terrible and laughable in her bright directness . 
Ah that dreadful word 'personally' ! I wailed we're dying of it , for you women bring it out with murderous effect . 
When you meet with a genius as fine as this idol of ours let him off the dreary duty of being a personality as well . 
Know him only by what's best in him and spare him for the same sweet sake . 
He hasn't any disfigurement ? Nothing to speak of ! Do you mean that social engagements interfere with his occupations ? That but feebly expresses it . 
So that he can't give himself up to his beautiful imagination ? He's beset , badgered , bothered he's pulled to pieces on the pretext of being applauded . 
People expect him to give them his time , his golden time , who wouldn't themselves give five shillings for one of his books . 
Five ? I'd give five thousand ! Give your sympathy give your forbearance . 
Two thirds of those who approach him only do it to advertise themselves . 
Why it's too bad ! the girl exclaimed with the face of an angel . 
It's the first time I was ever called crude ! she laughed . 
I followed up my advantage . 
There's a lady with him now who's a terrible complication , and who yet hasn't read , I'm sure , ten pages he ever wrote . 
My visitor's wide eyes grew tenderer . 
Then how does she talk ? Without ceasing . 
I only mention her as a single case . 
Do you want to know how to show a superlative consideration ? Simply avoid him . 
Avoid him ? she despairingly breathed . 
Don't force him to have to take account of you admire him in silence , cultivate him at a distance and secretly appropriate his message . 
The more you get into his writings the less you'll want to , and you'll be immensely sustained by the thought of the good you're doing him . 
She looked at me without resentment or spite , and at the truth I had put before her with candour , credulity , pity . 
I was afterwards happy to remember that she must have gathered from my face the liveliness of my interest in herself . 
I think I see what you mean . 
Oh I express it badly , but I should be delighted if you'd let me come to see you to explain it better . 
She made no response to this , and her thoughtful eyes fell on the big album , on which she presently laid her hands as if to take it away . 
I did use to say out West that they might write a little less for autographs to all the great poets , you know and study the thoughts and style a little more . 
What do they care for the thoughts and style ? They didn't even understand you . 
I'm not sure , I added , that I do myself , and I dare say that you by no means make me out . 
She had got up to go , and though I wanted her to succeed in not seeing Neil Paraday I wanted her also , inconsequently , to remain in the house . 
I was at any rate far from desiring to hustle her off . 
Sinking again into her chair to listen she showed a deep interest in the anecdote . 
I assured her I'd bring it back to her myself . 
Well , you'll find my address somewhere in it on a paper ! she sighed all resignedly at the door . 
I BLUSH to confess it , but I invited Mr. Paraday that very day to transcribe into the album one of his most characteristic passages . 
This was why I carried it to Albemarle Street no later than on the morrow . 
I failed to find her at home , but she wrote to me and I went again she wanted so much to hear more about Neil Paraday . 
I returned repeatedly , I may briefly declare , to supply her with this information . 
She had been immensely taken , the more she thought of it , with that idea of mine about the act of homage it had ended by filling her with a generous rapture . 
We read him together when I could find time , and the generous creature's sacrifice was fed by our communion . 
There were twenty selfish women about whom I told her and who stirred her to a beautiful rage . 
Immediately after my first visit her sister , Mrs. Milsom , came over from Paris , and the two ladies began to present , as they called it , their letters . 
I thanked our stars that none had been presented to Mr. Paraday . 
They received invitations and dined out , and some of these occasions enabled Fanny Hurter to perform , for consistency's sake , touching feats of submission . 
Nothing indeed would now have induced her even to look at the object of her admiration . 
Once , hearing his name announced at a party , she instantly left the room by another door and then straightway quitted the house . 
At another time when I was at the opera with them Mrs. Milsom had invited me to their box I attempted to point Mr. Paraday out to her in the stalls . 
To torment her tenderly I pressed the glass upon her , telling her how wonderfully near it brought our friend's handsome head . 
By way of answer she simply looked at me in charged silence , letting me see that tears had gathered in her eyes . 
These tears , I may remark , produced an effect on me of which the end is not yet . 
There was a moment when I felt it my duty to mention them to Neil Paraday , but I was deterred by the reflexion that there were questions more relevant to his happiness . 
Such conditions could never all come back , for there was a new one that took up too much place but some perhaps were not beyond recall . 
I wanted above all things to see him sit down to the subject he had , on my making his acquaintance , read me that admirable sketch of . 
Something told me there was no security but in his doing so before the new factor , as we used to say at Mr. Pinhorn's , should render the problem incalculable . 
There would even not be wanting critics to declare , I foresaw , that the plan was a thing to be more thankful for than the structure to have been reared on it . 
My impatience for the structure , none the less , grew and grew with the interruptions . 
Paraday had been promptly caught and saddled , accepting with characteristic good humour his confidential hint that to figure in his show was not so much a consequence as a cause of immortality . 
From Mrs. Wimbush to the last representative who called to ascertain his twelve favourite dishes , it was the same ingenuous assumption that he would rejoice in the repercussion . 
There were moments when I fancied I might have had more patience with them if they hadn't been so fatally benevolent . 
A young artist in whom she was intensely interested , and who had no connexion with Mr. Rumble , was to show how far he could make him go . 
Poor Paraday , in return , was naturally to write something somewhere about the young artist . 
She played her victims against each other with admirable ingenuity , and her establishment was a huge machine in which the tiniest and the biggest wheels went round to the same treadle . 
I had a scene with her in which I tried to express that the function of such a man was to exercise his genius not to serve as a hoarding for pictorial posters . 
A sultry air of promises , of ponderous parties , hung over his August , and he would greatly profit by the interval of rest . 
He hadn't told me he was ill again that he had had a warning but I hadn't needed this , for I found his reticence his worst symptom . 
I'm afraid I shall have presented him as a martyr in a very small cause if I fail to explain that he surrendered himself much more liberally than I surrendered him . 
He filled his lungs , for the most part with the comedy of his queer fate the tragedy was in the spectacles through which I chose to look . 
I don't think her august presence had had to do with Paraday's consenting to go , but it's not impossible he had operated as a bait to the illustrious stranger . 
The party had been made up for him , Mrs. Wimbush averred , and every one was counting on it , the dear Princess most of all . 
If he was well enough he was to read them something absolutely fresh , and it was on that particular prospect the Princess had set her heart . 
And then he read like an angel . 
Mrs. Wimbush reminded me that he had again and again given her , Mrs. Wimbush , the privilege of listening to him . 
I looked at her a moment . 
What has he read to you ? I crudely enquired . 
For a moment too she met my eyes , and for the fraction of a moment she hesitated and coloured . 
Oh all sorts of things ! I wondered if this were an imperfect recollection or only a perfect fib , and she quite understood my unuttered comment on her measure of such things . 
But if she could forget Neil Paraday's beauties she could of course forget my rudeness , and three days later she invited me , by telegraph , to join the party at Prestidge . 
This time she might indeed have had a story about what I had given up to be near the master . 
I SUPPOSE I ought to enjoy the joke of what's going on here , I wrote , but somehow it doesn't amuse me . 
Pessimism on the contrary possesses me and cynicism deeply engages . 
I positively feel my own flesh sore from the brass nails in Neil Paraday's social harness . 
The house is full of people who like him , as they mention , awfully , and with whom his talent for talking nonsense has prodigious success . 
I'm made restless by the selfishness of the insincere friend I want to monopolise Paraday in order that he may push me on . 
All the disinterested people here are his particular admirers and have been carefully selected as such . 
There's supposed to be a copy of his last book in the house , and in the hall I come upon ladies , in attitudes , bending gracefully over the first volume . 
I discreetly avert my eyes , and when I next look round the precarious joy has been superseded by the book of life . 
There's a sociable circle or a confidential couple , and the relinquished volume lies open on its face and as dropped under extreme coercion . 
Somebody else presently finds it and transfers it , with its air of momentary desolation , to another piece of furniture . 
Every one's asking every one about it all day , and every one's telling every one where they put it last . 
I'm sure it's rather smudgy about the twentieth page . 
You see therefore that the beautiful book plays a great part in our existence . 
The Princess is a massive lady with the organisation of an athlete and the confusion of tongues of a valet de place . 
I feel as if I ought to 'tip' some custode for my glimpse of it . 
Mrs. Wimbush delights in her wit and says there's nothing so charming as to hear Mr. Paraday draw it out . 
He's perpetually detailed for this job , and he tells me it has a peculiarly exhausting effect . 
Every one's beginning at the end of two days to sidle obsequiously away from her , and Mrs. Wimbush pushes him again and again into the breach . 
None of the uses I have yet seen him put to infuriate me quite so much . 
Mrs. Wimbush would never forgive him if he should leave her before the Princess has received the last hand . 
It's strange , when she's so kind ! At any rate , I'd as soon overturn that piece of priceless Sevres as tell her I must go before my date . 
in the place of others and makes him feel , even against himself , their feelings , their appetites , their motives . 
It's indeed inveterately against himself that he makes his imagination act . 
What a pity he has such a lot of it ! He's too beastly intelligent . 
Besides , the famous reading's still to come off , and it has been postponed a day to allow Guy Walsingham to arrive . 
It appears this eminent lady's staying at a house a few miles off , which means of course that Mrs. Wimbush has forcibly annexed her . 
She's to come over in a day or two Mrs. Wimbush wants her to hear Mr. Paraday . 
To day's wet and cold , and several of the company , at the invitation of the Duke , have driven over to luncheon at Bigwood . 
I saw poor Paraday wedge himself , by command , into the little supplementary seat of a brougham in which the Princess and our hostess were already ensconced . 
If the front glass isn't open on his dear old back perhaps he'll survive . 
Bigwood , I believe , is very grand and frigid , all marble and precedence , and I wish him well out of the adventure . 
I can't tell you how much more and more your attitude to him , in the midst of all this , shines out by contrast . 
Mrs. Wimbush goes by the calendar , the temperature goes by the weather , the weather goes by God knows what , and the Princess is easily heated . 
I've nothing but my acrimony to warm me , and have been out under an umbrella to restore my circulation . 
Coming in an hour ago I found Lady Augusta Minch rummaging about the hall . 
When I asked her what she was looking for she said she had mislaid something that Mr. Paraday had lent her . 
I ascertained in a moment that the article in question is a manuscript , and I've a foreboding that it's the noble morsel he read me six weeks ago . 
'Is that the piece he's to read , I asked , 'when Guy Walsingham arrives ? 'It's not for Guy Walsingham they're waiting now , it's for Dora Forbes , Lady Augusta said . 
'She's coming , I believe , early to morrow . 
Meanwhile Mrs. Wimbush has found out about him , and is actively wiring to him . 
She says he also must hear him . 
'You bewilder me a little , I replied 'in the age we live in one gets lost among the genders and the pronouns . 
The clear thing is that Mrs. Wimbush doesn't guard such a treasure so jealously as she might . 
'Poor dear , she has the Princess to guard ! Mr. Paraday lent her the manuscript to look over . 
'She spoke , you mean , as if it were the morning paper ? Lady Augusta stared my irony was lost on her . 
'She didn't have time , so she gave me a chance first because unfortunately I go to morrow to Bigwood . 
'And your chance has only proved a chance to lose it ? 'I haven't lost it . 
I remember now it was very stupid of me to have forgotten . 
I told my maid to give it to Lord Dorimont or at least to his man . 
'And Lord Dorimont went away directly after luncheon . 
'Of course he gave it back to my maid or else his man did , said Lady Augusta . 
'I dare say it's all right . 
The conscience of these people is like a summer sea . 
They haven't time to look over a priceless composition they've only time to kick it about the house . 
But I added that if the manuscript had gone astray our little circle would have the less of an effort of attention to make . 
The piece in question was very long it would keep them three hours . 
'Three hours ! Oh the Princess will get up ! said Lady Augusta . 
'I thought she was Mr. Paraday's greatest admirer . 
'I dare say she is she's so awfully clever . 
But what's the use of being a Princess 'If you can't dissemble your love ? I asked as Lady Augusta was vague . 
She said at any rate she'd question her maid and I'm hoping that when I go down to dinner I shall find the manuscript has been recovered . 
CHAPTER X. IT has NOT been recovered , I wrote early the next day , and I'm moreover much troubled about our friend . 
He came back from Bigwood with a chill and , being allowed to have a fire in his room , lay down a while before dinner . 
He came down to dinner , but Lady Augusta Minch was very shy of him . 
To day he's in great pain , and the advent of ces dames I mean of Guy Walsingham and Dora Forbes doesn't at all console me . 
It does Mrs. Wimbush , however , for she has consented to his remaining in bed so that he may be all right to morrow for the listening circle . 
Guy Walsingham's already on the scene , and the Doctor for Paraday also arrived early . 
I haven't yet seen the author of 'Obsessions , but of course I've had a moment by myself with the Doctor . 
I tried to get him to say that our invalid must go straight home I mean to morrow or next day but he quite refuses to talk about the future . 
Absolute quiet and warmth and the regular administration of an important remedy are the points he mainly insists on . 
He returns this afternoon , and I'm to go back to see the patient at one o'clock , when he next takes his medicine . 
It consoles me a little that he certainly won't be able to read an exertion he was already more than unfit for . 
Lady Augusta went off after breakfast , assuring me her first care would be to follow up the lost manuscript . 
I can see she thinks me a shocking busybody and doesn't understand my alarm , but she'll do what she can , for she's a good natured woman . 
'So are they all honourable men . 
That was precisely what made her give the thing to Lord Dorimont and made Lord Dorimont bag it . 
What use HE has for it God only knows . 
I've the worst forebodings , but somehow I'm strangely without passion desperately calm . 
Lady Augusta promises me to trace the precious object and let me have it through the post by the time Paraday's well enough to play his part with it . 
The last evidence is that her maid did give it to his lordship's valet . 
One would suppose it some thrilling number of THE FAMILY BUDGET . 
Mrs. Wimbush , who's aware of the accident , is much less agitated by it than she would doubtless be were she not for the hour inevitably engrossed with Guy Walsingham . 
I spent most of the day hovering about Neil Paraday's room , but it was communicated to me from below that Guy Walsingham , at Prestidge , was a success . 
Toward evening I became conscious somehow that her superiority was contagious , and by the time the company separated for the night I was sure the larger latitude had been generally accepted . 
I thought of Dora Forbes and felt that he had no time to lose . 
Before dinner I received a telegram from Lady Augusta Minch . 
Lord Dorimont thinks he must have left bundle in train enquire . 
How could I enquire if I was to take the word as a command ? I was too worried and now too alarmed about Neil Paraday . 
The Doctor came back , and it was an immense satisfaction to me to be sure he was wise and interested . 
He was proud of being called to so distinguished a patient , but he admitted to me that night that my friend was gravely ill . 
It was really a relapse , a recrudescence of his old malady . 
There could be no question of moving him we must at any rate see first , on the spot , what turn his condition would take . 
Meanwhile , on the morrow , he was to have a nurse . 
I did laugh , I'm sure , as I remembered this to be the mystic scroll I had scarcely allowed poor Mr. Morrow to point his umbrella at . 
Fool that I had been the thirty seven influential journals wouldn't have destroyed it , they'd only have printed it . 
Of course I said nothing to Paraday . 
When the nurse arrived she turned me out of the room , on which I went downstairs . 
Indeed I think every one did so , and that , like the money market or the national honour , her Imperial Highness was constitutionally sensitive . 
There was a certain gladness , a perceptible bustle in the air , however , which I thought slightly anomalous in a house where a great author lay critically ill . 
Le roy est mort vive le roy I was reminded that another great author had already stepped into his shoes . 
When I came down again after the nurse had taken possession I found a strange gentleman hanging about the hall and pacing to and fro by the closed door of the drawing room . 
This personage was florid and bald he had a big red moustache and wore showy knickerbockers characteristics all that fitted to my conception of the identity of Dora Forbes . 
I recognised his scruple when , pausing to listen at his gesture of caution , I heard a shrill voice lifted in a sort of rhythmic uncanny chant . 
The famous reading had begun , only it was the author of Obsessions who now furnished the sacrifice . 
The new visitor whispered to me that he judged something was going on he oughtn't to interrupt . 
Miss Collop arrived last night , I smiled , and the Princess has a thirst for the inedit . 
Dora Forbes lifted his bushy brows . 
Miss Collop ? Guy Walsingham , your distinguished confrere or shall I say your formidable rival ? Oh ! growled Dora Forbes . 
Then he added Shall I spoil it if I go in ? I should think nothing could spoil it ! I ambiguously laughed . 
Dora Forbes evidently felt the dilemma he gave an irritated crook to his moustache . 
SHALL I go in ? he presently asked . 
What happened at Prestidge later in the day is of course contemporary history . 
He decreed in the interest of his patient an absolutely soundless house and a consequent break up of the party . 
Little country practitioner as he was , he literally packed off the Princess . 
She departed as promptly as if a revolution had broken out , and Guy Walsingham emigrated with her . 
I was kindly permitted to remain , and this was not denied even to Mrs. Wimbush . 
The privilege was withheld indeed from Dora Forbes so Mrs. Wimbush kept her latest capture temporarily concealed . 
This was not the kind of performance for which she had invited him to Prestidge , let alone invited the Princess . 
He took advantage to the utmost of the singular favour . 
Day by day I saw him sink , and I roamed alone about the empty terraces and gardens . 
His wife never came near him , but I scarcely noticed it as I paced there with rage in my heart I was too full of another wrong . 
I couldn't have the matter out with Mrs. Wimbush , for I didn't want to be taunted by her with desiring to aggrandise myself by a public connexion with Mr. Paraday's sweepings . 
She had signified her willingness to meet the expense of all advertising , as indeed she was always ready to do . 
The last night of the horrible series , the night before he died , I put my ear closer to his pillow . 
That thing I read you that morning , you know . 
In your garden that dreadful day ? Yes ! Won't it do as it is ? It would have been a glorious book . 
It IS a glorious book , Neil Paraday murmured . 
Print it as it stands beautifully . 
Beautifully ! I passionately promised . 
It may be imagined whether , now that he's gone , the promise seems to me less sacred . 
I'm convinced that if such pages had appeared in his lifetime the Abbey would hold him to day . 
I've kept the advertising in my own hands , but the manuscript has not been recovered . 
It's impossible , and at any rate intolerable , to suppose it can have been wantonly destroyed . 
Perhaps some hazard of a blind hand , some brutal fatal ignorance has lighted kitchen fires with it . 
Every stupid and hideous accident haunts my meditations . 
My undiscourageable search for the lost treasure would make a long chapter . 
Sometimes I believe her , but I've quite ceased to believe myself . 
