Dombey and Son was contributed by Neil McLachlan , nmclachlan delphi . 
com and Ted Davis , . 
com on behalf of the Talking Newspaper of the UK . 
Words split at the end of lines have been re united , maintaining hyphenation where appropriate except for the Prefaces , the text has been reformatted to columns . 
Structure Contents Chapters to Preface of Preface of Dombey and Son by Charles Dickens CONTENTS . 
In which Timely Provision is made for an Emergency that will sometimes arise in the best regulated Families . 
In which Mr Dombey , as a Man and a Father , is seen at the Head of the Home Department . 
In which some more First Appearances are made on the Stage of these Adventures . 
A Bird's eye Glimpse of Miss Tox's Dwelling place also of the State of Miss Tox's Affections . 
Paul's further Progress , Growth , and Character . 
In which the Wooden Midshipman gets into Trouble . 
Containing the Sequel of the Midshipman's Disaster . 
Paul's Introduction to a New Scene . 
Shipping Intelligence and Office Business . 
Paul grows more and more Old fashioned , and goes Home for the holidays . 
Amazing Artfulness of Captain Cuttle , and a new Pursuit for Walter Gay . 
What the Waves were always saying . 
Captain Cuttle does a little Business for the Young people . 
Mr Dombey goes upon a journey . 
A Trifle of Management by Mr Carker the Manager . 
Florence solitary , and the Midshipman mysterious . 
The Study of a Loving Heart . 
Strange News of Uncle Sol . 
Shadows of the Past and Future . 
The Opening of the Eyes of Mrs Chick . 
The Interval before the Marriage . 
The Wooden Midshipman goes to Pieces . 
Miss Tox improves an Old Acquaintance . 
Further Adventures of Captain Edward Cuttle , Mariner . 
New Voices in the Waves . 
The Watches of the Night . 
The Midshipman makes a Discovery . 
Mr Dombey and the World . 
Rob the Grinder loses his Place . 
Several People delighted , and the Game Chicken disgusted . 
Dombey was about eight and forty years of age . 
Son about eight and forty minutes . 
Dombey was rather bald , rather red , and though a handsome well made man , too stern and pompous in appearance , to be prepossessing . 
an undeniably fine infant , somewhat crushed and spotty in his general effect , as yet . 
Son , with his little fists curled up and clenched , seemed , in his feeble way , to be squaring at existence for having come upon him so unexpectedly . 
and said , 'Mrs Dombey , my my dear . 
A transient flush of faint surprise overspread the sick lady's face as she raised her eyes towards him . 
'He will be christened Paul , my Mrs Dombey of course . 
She feebly echoed , 'Of course , or rather expressed it by the motion of her lips , and closed her eyes again . 
It doesn't enter into the correspondence of the House . 
Its signature remains the same . 
And again he said 'Dombey and Son , in exactly the same tone as before . 
Those three words conveyed the one idea of Mr Dombey's life . 
The earth was made for Dombey and Son to trade in , and the sun and moon were made to give them light . 
Common abbreviations took new meanings in his eyes , and had sole reference to them . 
A. D. had no concern with Anno Domini , but stood for anno Dombey and Son . 
Dombey and Son had often dealt in hides , but never in hearts . 
They left that fancy ware to boys and girls , and boarding schools and books . 
Mr Dombey would have reasoned That a matrimonial alliance with himself must , in the nature of things , be gratifying and honourable to any woman of common sense . 
That Mrs Dombey had had daily practical knowledge of his position in society . 
That Mrs Dombey had always sat at the head of his table , and done the honours of his house in a remarkably lady like and becoming manner . 
That Mrs Dombey must have been happy . 
That she couldn't help it . 
Or , at all events , with one drawback . 
That he would have allowed . 
With only one but that one certainly involving much . 
With the drawback of hope deferred . 
To speak of none worth mentioning . 
So he said , 'Florence , you may go and look at your pretty brother , if you lIke , I daresay . 
'Oh Lord bless me ! said Mr Dombey , rising testily . 
'A very illadvised and feverish proceeding this , I am sure . 
Please to ring there for Miss Florence's nurse . 
Really the person should be more care 'Wait ! I had better ask Doctor Peps if he'll have the goodness to step upstairs again perhaps . 
'Of this young gentleman , Mrs Blockitt . 
'No , Sir , indeed . 
I remember when Miss Florence was born 'Ay , ay , ay , said Mr Dombey , bending over the basket bedstead , and slightly bending his brows at the same time . 
'Miss Florence was all very well , but this is another matter . 
This young gentleman has to accomplish a destiny . 
Mr Dombey was quite discomfited by the question . 
He had thought so little of the patient , that he was not in a condition to answer it . 
He said that it would be a satisfaction to him , if Doctor Parker Peps would walk upstairs again . 
That there is a certain degree of languor , and a general absence of elasticity , which we would rather not 'See , interposed the family practitioner with another inclination of the head . 
'Quite so , said Doctor Parker Peps , which we would rather not see . 
'Quite so , assented the Doctor 'and vigorous effort . 
Mr Pilkins here , who from his position of medical adviser in this family no one better qualified to fill that position , I am sure . 
'Oh ! murmured the family practitioner . 
Praise from Sir Hubert Stanley ! 'You are good enough , returned Doctor Parker Peps , 'to say so . 
'To make , said Doctor Parker Peps . 
'That effort , said the family practitioner . 
'Successfully , said they both together . 
'Then , added Doctor Parker Peps , alone and very gravely , a crisis might arise , which we should both sincerely deplore . 
With that , they stood for a few seconds looking at the ground . 
To record of Mr Dombey that he was not in his way affected by this intelligence , would be to do him an injustice . 
Though it would be a cool , . 
business like , gentlemanly , self possessed regret , no doubt . 
Don't agitate yourself , Louisa . 
'It's very foolish of me , said Louisa , sitting down , and taking out her pocket handkerchief , 'but he's he's such a perfect Dombey ! Mr Dombey coughed . 
'It's so extraordinary , said Louisa smiling through her tears , which indeed were not overpowering , 'as to be perfectly ridiculous . 
I never saw anything like it in my life ! 'But what is this about Fanny , herself ? said Mr Dombey . 
'How is Fanny ? 'My dear Paul , returned Louisa , 'it's nothing whatever . 
Take my word , it's nothing whatever . 
There is exhaustion , certainly , but nothing like what I underwent myself , either with George or Frederick . 
If dear Fanny were a Dombey ! But I daresay she'll make it I have no doubt she'll make it . 
Knowing it to be required of her , as a duty , of course she'll make it . 
Mr Dombey promptly supplied her with these refreshments from a tray on the table . 
'I shall not drink my love to you , Paul , said Louisa 'I shall drink to the little Dombey . 
Good gracious me ! it's the most astonishing thing I ever knew in all my days , he's such a perfect Dombey . 
Quenching this expression of opinion in a short hysterical laugh which terminated in tears , Louisa cast up her eyes , and emptied her glass . 
I thought I should have fallen out of the staircase window as I came down from seeing dear Fanny , and that tiddy ickle sing . 
These last words originated in a sudden vivid reminiscence of the baby . 
They were succeeded by a gentle tap at the door . 
The kindest creature ! I never could have got here without her ! Miss Tox , my brother Mr Dombey . 
Paul , my dear , my very particular friend Miss Tox . 
But for this she might have been described as the very pink of general propitiation and politeness . 
Her hands had contracted a spasmodic habit of raising themselves of their own accord as in involuntary admiration . 
Her eyes were liable to a similar affection . 
Miss Tox's dress , though perfectly genteel and good , had a certain character of angularity and scantiness . 
She was accustomed to wear odd weedy little flowers in her bonnets and caps . 
She had furry articles for winter wear , as tippets , boas , and muffs , which stood up on end in rampant manner , and were not at all sleek . 
Possibly her mincing gait encouraged the belief , and suggested that her clipping a step of ordinary compass into two or three , originated in her habit of making the most of everything . 
You have been almost as anxious as I have been , and must want it , I am sure . 
Miss Tox is ingenuity itself . 
'My dear Louisa , said Miss Tox . 
'Miss Tox is very good , said Mr Dombey . 
I call Welcome little Dombey Poetry , myself ! 'Is that the device ? inquired her brother . 
'That is the device , returned Louisa . 
But the uncertainty attendant on angelic strangers , will , I hope , excuse what must otherwise appear an unwarrantable familiarity . 
Miss Tox made a graceful bend as she spoke , in favour of Mr Dombey , which that gentleman graciously acknowledged . 
Mr Dombey being hastily summoned out of the room at this moment , the two ladies were left alone together . 
Miss Tox immediately became spasmodic . 
'I knew you would admire my brother . 
I told you so beforehand , my dear , said Louisa . 
Miss Tox's hands and eyes expressed how much . 
'And as to his property , my dear ! 'Ah ! said Miss Tox , with deep feeling . 
'Im mense ! 'But his deportment , my dear Louisa ! said Miss Tox . 
'His presence ! His dignity ! No portrait that I have ever seen of anyone has been half so replete with those qualities . 
'That's what I should designate him . 
Do not allow yourself to receive a turn unnecessarily . 
Remember of what importance you are to society , and do not allow yourself to be worried by what is so very inconsiderately told you by people who ought to know better . 
Really I'm surprised at them . 
'I hope I know , Louisa , said Mr Dombey , stiffly , 'how to bear myself before the world . 
'Nobody better , my dear Paul . 
They would be ignorant and base indeed who doubted it . 
'Ignorant and base indeed ! echoed Miss Tox softly . 
'But , pursued Louisa , 'if you have any reliance on my experience , Paul , you may rest assured that there is nothing wanting but an effort on Fanny's part . 
Now , my dear Paul , come upstairs with me . 
The lady lay upon her bed as he had left her , clasping her little daughter to her breast . 
'Restless without the little girl , the Doctor whispered Mr Dombey . 
'We found it best to have her in again . 
'Can nothing be done ? asked Mr Dombey . 
The Doctor shook his head . 
'We can do no more . 
The windows stood open , and the twilight was gathering without . 
The scent of the restoratives that had been tried was pungent in the room , but had no fragrance in the dull and languid air the lady breathed . 
'Fanny , my dear , said Mrs Chick , with assumed lightness , 'here's Mr Dombey come to see you . 
'Eh ? she repeated , 'what was it you said , Fanny ? I didn't hear you . 
No word or sound in answer . 
Mr Dombey's watch and Dr Parker Peps's watch seemed to be racing faster . 
Come ! Try ! I must really scold you if you don't ! The race in the ensuing pause was fierce and furious . 
The watches seemed to jostle , and to trip each other up . 
'Fanny ! said Louisa , glancing round , with a gathering alarm . 
'Mama ! said the child . 
The little voice , familiar and dearly loved , awakened some show of consciousness , even at that ebb . 
For a moment , the closed eye lids trembled , and the nostril quivered , and the faintest shadow of a smile was seen . 
'Mama ! cried the child sobbing aloud . 
'Oh dear Mama ! oh dear Mama ! The Doctor gently brushed the scattered ringlets of the child , aside from the face and mouth of the mother . 
'Don't you over exert yourself , Loo , said Mr Chick , 'or you'll be laid up with spasms , I see . 
There's a moral in everything , if we would only avail ourselves of it . 
It will be our own faults if we lose sight of this one . 
'Merely habit , my dear , pleaded Mr Chick . 
'Nonsense ! Habit ! returned his wife . 
'If you're a rational being , don't make such ridiculous excuses . 
of walking on the ceiling , like the flies , I should hear enough of it , I daresay . 
It appeared so probable that such a habit might be attended with some degree of notoriety , that Mr Chick didn't venture to dispute the position . 
'Bow wow wow ! repeated Mrs Chick with an emphasis of blighting contempt on the last syllable . 
'More like a professional singer with the hydrophobia , than a man in your station of life ! 'How's the Baby , Loo ? asked Mr Chick to change the subject . 
'What Baby do you mean ? answered Mrs Chick . 
'The poor bereaved little baby , said Mr Chick . 
'I don't know of any other , my dear . 
'You don't know of any other , 'retorted Mrs Chick . 
'More shame for you , I was going to say . 
'I am sure the morning I have had , with that dining room downstairs , one mass of babies , no one in their senses would believe . 
'One mass of babies ! repeated Mr Chick , staring with an alarmed expression about him . 
'Oh ! Ah ! said Mr Chick . 
'Toor ru ! such is life , I mean . 
I hope you are suited , my dear . 
Meanwhile , of course , the child is 'Going to the Devil , said Mr Chick , thoughtfully , 'to be sure . 
After looking at him for some moments in silent resignation , Mrs Chick said she trusted he hadn't said it in aggravation , because that would do very little honour to his heart . 
She trusted he hadn't said it seriously , because that would do very little honour to his head . 
Mrs Chick then walked majestically to the window and peeped through the blind , attracted by the sound of wheels . 
Mr Chick , finding that his destiny was , for the time , against him , said no more , and walked off . 
But it was not always thus with Mr Chick . 
He was often in the ascendant himself , and at those times punished Louisa roundly . 
In their matrimonial bickerings they were , upon the whole , a well matched , fairly balanced , give and take couple . 
It would have been , generally speaking , very difficult to have betted on the winner . 
Often when Mr Chick seemed beaten , he would suddenly make a start , turn the tables , clatter them about the ears of Mrs Chick , and carry all before him . 
Being liable himself to similar unlooked for checks from Mrs Chick , their little contests usually possessed a character of uncertainty that was very animating . 
Miss Tox had arrived on the wheels just now alluded to , and came running into the room in a breathless condition . 
'My dear Louisa , 'said Miss Tox , 'is the vacancy still unsupplied ? 'You good soul , yes , said Mrs Chick . 
'Then , my dear Louisa , returned Miss Tox , 'I hope and believe but in one moment , my dear , I'll introduce the party . 
Running downstairs again as fast as she had run up , Miss Tox got the party out of the hackney coach , and soon returned with it under convoy . 
When they gave me that answer , I do assure you , my dear , I was almost driven to despair on your account . 
The moment I heard this , and had it corroborated by the matron excellent references and unimpeachable character I got the address , my dear , and posted off again . 
'Like the dear good Tox , you are ! said Louisa . 
'Not at all , returned Miss Tox . 
This gentleman , said Miss Tox , pointing out the apple faced man , 'is the father . 
Will you have the goodness to come a little forward , Sir ? The apple faced man having sheepishly complied with this request , stood chuckling and grinning in a front row . 
'This is his wife , of course , said Miss Tox , singling out the young woman with the baby . 
'How do you do , Polly ? 'I'm pretty well , I thank you , Ma'am , said Polly . 
By way of bringing her out dexterously , Miss Tox had made the inquiry as in condescension to an old acquaintance whom she hadn't seen for a fortnight or so . 
'I'm glad to hear it , said Miss Tox . 
'The other young woman is her unmarried sister who lives with them , and would take care of her children . 
How do you do , Jemima ? 'I'm pretty well , I thank you , Ma'am , returned Jemima . 
'I'm very glad indeed to hear it , said Miss Tox . 
'I hope you'll keep so . 
'I beg your pardon , Sir , said Miss Tox , 'did you ? 'Flat iron , he repeated . 
'Oh yes , said Miss Tox . 
The little creature , in his mother's absence , smelt a warm flat iron . 
You're quite right , Sir . 
You were going to have the goodness to inform me , when we arrived at the door that you were by trade a 'Stoker , said the man . 
'A choker ! said Miss Tox , quite aghast . 
'Stoker , said the man . 
'Oh h ! Yes ! returned Miss Tox , looking thoughtfully at him , and seeming still to have but a very imperfect understanding of his meaning . 
'And how do you like it , Sir ? 'Which , Mum ? said the man . 
'That , replied Miss Tox . 
'Oh ! Pretty well , Mum . 
The ashes sometimes gets in here touching his chest 'and makes a man speak gruff , as at the present time . 
But it is ashes , Mum , not crustiness . 
Miss Tox seemed to be so little enlightened by this reply , as to find a difficulty in pursuing the subject . 
But Mrs Chick relieved her , by entering into a close private examination of Polly , her children , her marriage certificate , testimonials , and so forth . 
Toodle being the family name of the apple faced family . 
Mr Dombey had remained in his own apartment since the death of his wife , absorbed in visions of the youth , education , and destination of his baby son . 
The time had now come , however , when he could no longer be divided between these two sets of feelings . 
'These children look healthy , said Mr Dombey . 
'Is there , did you say , Louisa ! 'Can there be , I mean 'Why none , said Mr Dombey , sternly . 
'The whole world knows that , I presume . 
Grief has not made me idiotic , Louisa . 
Take them away , Louisa ! Let me see this woman and her husband . 
Mrs Chick bore off the tender pair of Toodles , and presently returned with that tougher couple whose presence her brother had commanded . 
I have no objection to your adding to the comforts of your family by that means . 
So far as I can tell , you seem to be a deserving object . 
But I must impose one or two conditions on you , before you enter my house in that capacity . 
While you are here , I must stipulate that you are always known as say as Richards an ordinary name , and convenient . 
Have you any objection to be known as Richards ? You had better consult your husband . 
'Well ? said Mr Dombey , after a pretty long pause . 
'Oh , of course , said Mr Dombey . 
'I desire to make it a question of wages , altogether . 
Now , Richards , if you nurse my bereaved child , I wish you to remember this always . 
You will receive a liberal stipend in return for the discharge of certain duties , in the performance of which , I wish you to see as little of your family as possible . 
When those duties cease to be required and rendered , and the stipend ceases to be paid , there is an end of all relations between us . 
Do you understand me ? Mrs Toodle seemed doubtful about it and as to Toodle himself , he had evidently no doubt whatever , that he was all abroad . 
'You have children of your own , said Mr Dombey . 
'It is not at all in this bargain that you need become attached to my child , or that my child need become attached to you . 
I don't expect or desire anything of the kind . 
When you go away from here , you will have concluded what is a mere matter of bargain and sale , hiring and letting and will stay away . 
The child will cease to remember you and you will cease , if you please , to remember the child . 
Mrs Toodle , with a little more colour in her cheeks than she had had before , said 'she hoped she knew her place . 
'I hope you do , Richards , said Mr Dombey . 
'I have no doubt you know it very well . 
Indeed it is so plain and obvious that it could hardly be otherwise . 
Louisa , my dear , arrange with Richards about money , and let her have it when and how she pleases . 
'You have a son , I believe ? said Mr Dombey . 
'Four on 'em , Sir . 
Four hims and a her . 
All alive ! 'Why , it's as much as you can afford to keep them ! said Mr Dombey . 
'I couldn't hardly afford but one thing in the world less , Sir . 
'What is that ? 'To lose 'em , Sir . 
'Can you read ? asked Mr Dombey . 
'Why , not partick'ler , Sir . 
'So I'm a going to , Sir . 
One of my little boys is a going to learn me , when he's old enough , and been to school himself . 
and still drawing his hand across and across his mouth . 
'But I ask you if you heard it . 
You did , I suppose , and understood it ? pursued Mr Dombey . 
'I heerd it , said Toodle , 'but I don't know as I understood it rightly Sir , 'account of being no scholar , and the words being ask your pardon rayther high . 
'Not a bit , said Toodle . 
'I won't detain you any longer then , returned Mr Dombey , disappointed . 
'Where have you worked all your life ? 'Mostly underground , Sir , 'till I got married . 
I come to the level then . 
I'm a going on one of these here railroads when they comes into full play . 
As he added in one of his hoarse whispers , 'We means to bring up little Biler to that line , Mr Dombey inquired haughtily who little Biler was . 
'The eldest on 'em , Sir , said Toodle , with a smile . 
'It ain't a common name . 
Sermuchser that when he was took to church the gen'lm'n said , it wam't a chris'en one , and he couldn't give it . 
But we always calls him Biler just the same . 
For we don't mean no harm . 
'I should hope not ! No , Sir . 
He motioned his child's foster father to the door , who departed by no means unwillingly and then turning the key , paced up and down the room in solitary wretchedness . 
Her infant was a boy too . 
In another moment , he was remembering how few such cases seemed to have ever happened . 
In another moment he was wondering whether they ever happened and were not found out . 
'You'll take a glass yourself , Sir , won't you ? said Miss Tox , as Toodle appeared . 
'Thankee , Mum , said Toodle , 'since you are suppressing . 
'And you're very glad to leave your dear good wife in such a comfortable home , ain't you , Sir ? 'said Miss Tox , nodding and winking at him stealthily . 
'No , Mum , said Toodle . 
'Here's wishing of her back agin . 
Polly cried more than ever at this . 
, hastened to the rescue . 
You have been already measured for your mourning , haven't you , Richards ? 'Ye es , Ma'am , sobbed Polly . 
I know , said Mrs Chick , 'for the same young person has made me many dresses . 
Toodle was evidently not to be bought over . 
'As to living , Richards , you know , pursued Mrs Chick , 'why , the very best of everything will be at your disposal . 
You will order your little dinner every day and anything you take a fancy to , I'm sure will be as readily provided as if you were a Lady . 
'Yes to be sure ! said Miss Tox , keeping up the ball with great sympathy . 
'And as to porter ! quite unlimited , will it not , Louisa ? 'Oh , certainly ! returned Mrs Chick in the same tone . 
'With a little abstinence , you know , my dear , in point of vegetables . 
'And pickles , perhaps , suggested Miss Tox . 
'With such exceptions , said Louisa , 'she'll consult her choice entirely , and be under no restraint at all , my love . 
That's the only rule as I know on , that'll carry anyone through life . 
You always have held up your head and fought low , Polly . 
Do it now , or Bricks is no longer so . 
beat a demoniacal tattoo with his boots , expressive of grief in which he was joined by the rest of the family . 
The children , under the guardianship of Jemima , blocked up the window , and dropped out oranges and halfpence all the way along . 
Mr Toodle himself preferred to ride behind among the spikes , as being the mode of conveyance to which he was best accustomed . 
On Richards , who was established upstairs in a state of honourable captivity , the dawn of her new life seemed to break cold and grey . 
Mr Dombey's house was a large one , on the shady side of a tall , dark , dreadfully genteel street in the region between Portland Place and Bryanstone Square . 
It was a corner house , with great wide areas containing cellars frowned upon by barred windows , and leered at by crooked eyed doors leading to dustbins . 
It was as blank a house inside as outside . 
Accordingly , mysterious shapes were made of tables and chairs , heaped together in the middle of rooms , and covered over with great winding sheets . 
Bell handles , window blinds , and looking glasses , being papered up in journals , daily and weekly , obtruded fragmentary accounts of deaths and dreadful murders . 
Every chandelier or lustre , muffled in holland , looked like a monstrous tear depending from the ceiling's eye . 
Odours , as from vaults and damp places , came out of the chimneys . 
The dead and buried lady was awful in a picture frame of ghastly bandages . 
These three rooms opened upon one another . 
Sensible that she was plainly to be seen by him' however , she never dared to pry in that direction but very furtively and for a moment at a time . 
Consequently she made out nothing , and Mr Dombey in his den remained a very shade . 
when , as she was sitting in her own room , the door was slowly and quietly opened , and a dark eyed little girl looked in . 
'It's Miss Florence come home from her aunt's , no doubt , thought Richards , who had never seen the child before . 
'Hope I see you well , Miss . 
'Is that my brother ? asked the child , pointing to the Baby . 
'Yes , my pretty , answered Richards . 
'What have they done with my Mama ? inquired the child , with exactly the same look and manner . 
'I never saw such a melting thing in all my life ! said Richards , who naturally substituted 'for this child one of her own , inquiring for herself in like circumstances . 
'Come nearer here , my dear Miss ! Don't be afraid of me . 
'I am not afraid of you , said the child , drawing nearer . 
'But I want to know what they have done with my Mama . 
Her heart swelled so as she stood before the woman , looking into her eyes , that she was fain to press her little hand upon her breast and hold it there . 
Yet there was a purpose in the child that prevented both her slender figure and her searching gaze from faltering . 
'My darling , said Richards , 'you wear that pretty black frock in remembrance of your Mama . 
'I can remember my Mama , returned the child , with tears springing to her eyes , 'in any frock . 
'But people put on black , to remember people when they're gone . 
'Where gone ? asked the child . 
'Come and sit down by me , said Richards , 'and I'll tell you a story . 
'Once upon a time , said Richards , 'there was a lady a very good lady , and her little daughter dearly loved her . 
'A very good lady and her little daughter dearly loved her , repeated the child . 
'Who , when God thought it right that it should be so , was taken ill and died . 
'Died , never to be seen again by anyone on earth , and was buried in the ground where the trees grow . 
'The cold ground ? said the child , shuddering again . 
Where good people turn into bright angels , and fly away to Heaven ! The child , who had dropped her head , raised it again , and sat looking at her intently . 
'It was my Mama ! exclaimed the child , springing up , and clasping her round the neck . 
'When it was 'tickerlerly given out that you wasn't to go and worrit the wet nurse . 
'She don't worry me , was the surprised rejoinder of Polly . 
'I am very fond of children . 
'I may be very fond of pennywinkles , Mrs Richards , but it don't follow that I'm to have 'em for tea . 
'Well , it don't matter , said Polly . 
'Oh , thank'ee , Mrs Richards , don't it ! returned the sharp girl . 
'Remembering , however , if you'll be so good , that Miss Floy's under my charge , and Master Paul's under your'n . 
'But still we needn't quarrel , said Polly . 
'Oh no , Mrs Richards , rejoined Spitfire . 
'Not at all , I don't wish it , we needn't stand upon that footing , Miss Floy being a permanency , Master Paul a temporary . 
Spitfire made use of none but comma pauses shooting out whatever she had to say in one sentence , and in one breath , if possible . 
'Miss Florence has just come home , hasn't she ? asked Polly . 
But she seemed to do it , more in the excessively sharp exercise of her official functions , than with any deliberate unkindness . 
'Lork , Mrs Richards ! cried Miss Nipper , taking up her words with a jerk . 
See her dear Papa indeed ! I should like to see her do it ! 'Won't she then ? asked Polly . 
The child looked quickly from one nurse to the other , as if she understood and felt what was said . 
'You surprise me ! cried Folly . 
'Hasn't Mr Dombey seen her since 'No , interrupted Susan Nipper . 
'Pretty dear ! said Richards meaning , not Miss Nipper , but the little Florence . 
'Oh dear ! after it was given out so 'tickerlerly , that Mrs Richards wasn't to be made free with ! exclaimed Susan . 
'Very well , Miss Floy ! 'God bless the sweet thing ! said Richards , 'Good bye , dear ! 'Good bye ! returned the child . 
'God bless you ! I shall come to see you again soon , and you'll come to see me ? Susan will let us . 
Richards assented to the proposition . 
'This house ain't so exactly ringing with merry making , said Miss Nipper , 'that one need be lonelier than one must be . 
Your Toxes and your Chickses may draw out my two front double teeth , Mrs Richards , but that's no reason why I need offer 'em the whole set . 
This proposition was also assented to by Richards , as an obvious one . 
Notwithstanding Mr Toodle's great reliance on Polly , she was perhaps in point of artificial accomplishments very little his superior . 
But this is from the purpose . 
An opening happened to present itself that very night . 
Just the same austere , stiff gentleman , as he had appeared to her on that first day . 
Such a hard looking gentleman , that she involuntarily dropped her eyes and her curtsey at the same time . 
'How is Master Paul , Richards ? 'Quite thriving , Sir , and well . 
'He looks so , said Mr Dombey , glancing with great interest at the tiny face she uncovered for his observation , and yet affecting to be half careless of it . 
'They give you everything you want , I hope ? 'Oh yes , thank you , Sir . 
She suddenly appended such an obvious hesitation to this reply , however , that Mr Dombey , who had turned away stopped , and turned round again , inquiringly . 
'I begged them to take you out for airings , constantly , said Mr Dombey . 
'Very well ! You shall go out oftener . 
You're quite right to mention it . 
'I beg your pardon , Sir , faltered Polly , 'but we go out quite plenty Sir , thank you . 
'What would you have then ? asked Mr Dombey . 
'Oh dear yes , Sir , I wasn't so much as thinking of that . 
'I am glad of it , said Mr Dombey hastily . 
'You can continue your walk if you please . 
Next night , she found him walking about the conservatory when she came down . 
As she stopped at the door , checked by this unusual sight , and uncertain whether to advance or retreat , he called her in . 
His mind was too much set on Dombey and Son , it soon appeared , to admit of his having forgotten her suggestion . 
'Tell them always to let Miss Florence be with Richards when she chooses , and go out with her , and so forth . 
Tell them to let the children be together , when Richards wishes it . 
Let him be absorbed as he would in the Son on whom he built such high hopes , he could not forget that closing scene . 
He could not forget that he had had no part in it . 
even more than the usual amount of childish simplicity and confidence , he almost felt as if she watched and distrusted him . 
As if she held the clue to something secret in his breast , of the nature of which he was hardly informed himself . 
As if she had an innate knowledge of one jarring and discordant string within him , and her very breath could sound it . 
His feeling about the child had been negative from her birth . 
He had never conceived an aversion to her it had not been worth his while or in his humour . 
She had never been a positively disagreeable object to him . 
But now he was ill at ease about her . 
He would have preferred to put her idea aside altogether , if he had known how . 
Perhaps who shall decide on such mysteries ! he was afraid that he might come to hate her . 
When little Florence timidly presented herself , Mr Dombey stopped in his pacing up and down and looked towards her . 
But he saw nothing of this . 
He saw her pause irresolutely at the door and look towards him and he saw no more . 
'Come here , Florence , said her father , coldly . 
'Do you know who I am ? 'Yes , Papa . 
'Have you nothing to say to me ? The tears that stood in her eyes as she raised them quickly to his face , were frozen by the expression it wore . 
She looked down again , and put out her trembling hand . 
'There ! Be a good girl , he said , patting her on the head , and regarding her as it were by stealth with a disturbed and doubtful look . 
She looked up in his face once more . 
He thought how like her expression was then , to what it had been when she looked round at the Doctor that night and instinctively dropped her hand and turned away . 
It was not difficult to perceive that Florence was at a great disadvantage in her father's presence . 
It was not only a constraint upon the child's mind , but even upon the natural grace and freedom of her actions . 
it changed upon the instant and became forced and embarrassed . 
It's hard indeed , thought Polly , 'if he takes only to one little motherless child , when he has another , and that a girl , before his eyes . 
'Miss Florence was afraid of interrupting , Sir , if she came in to say good night , said Richards . 
'It doesn't matter , returned Mr Dombey . 
'You can let her come and go without regarding me . 
The child shrunk as she listened and was gone , before her humble friend looked round again . 
'I thought you would have been pleased , said Polly . 
'You don't show it , said Polly . 
'Oh ! Being only a permanency I couldn't be expected to show it like a temporary , said Susan Nipper . 
Many minor incidents in the household life of the Ships' Instrument maker who was proud of his little Midshipman , assisted and bore out this fancy . 
His acquaintance lying chiefly among ship chandlers and so forth , he had always plenty of the veritable ships' biscuit on his table . 
It was familiar with dried meats and tongues , possessing an extraordinary flavour of rope yarn . 
Pickles were produced upon it , in great wholesale jars , with 'dealer in all kinds of Ships' Provisions' on the label spirits were set forth in case bottles with no throats . 
was far from having a maritime appearance . 
It is half past five o'clock , and an autumn afternoon , when the reader and Solomon Gills become acquainted . 
Solomon Gills is in the act of seeing what time it is by the unimpeachable chronometer . 
The usual daily clearance has been making in the City for an hour or more and the human tide is still rolling westward . 
'The streets have thinned , as Mr Gills says , 'very much . 
It threatens to be wet to night . 
All the weatherglasses in the shop are in low spirits , and the rain already shines upon the cocked hat of the wooden Midshipman . 
'Where's Walter , I wonder ! said Solomon Gills , after he had carefully put up the chronometer again . 
All in the Downs , eh ! Lots of moisture ! Well ! it's wanted . 
And the parlour couldn't bear straighter either . 
Not the twentieth part of a point either way . 
'Halloa , Uncle Sol ! 'Halloa , my boy ! cried the Instrument maker , turning briskly round . 
'What ! you are here , are you ? A cheerful looking , merry boy , fresh with running home in the rain fair faced , bright eyed , and curly haired . 
'Well , Uncle , how have you got on without me all day ? Is dinner ready ? I'm so hungry . 
'As to getting on , said Solomon good naturedly , 'it would be odd if I couldn't get on without a young dog like you a great deal better than with you . 
As to dinner being ready , it's been ready this half hour and waiting for you . 
As to being hungry , I am ! 'Come along then , Uncle ! cried the boy . 
'Hurrah for the admiral ! 'Confound the admiral ! returned Solomon Gills . 
'You mean the Lord Mayor . 
'No I don't ! cried the boy . 
'The Lord Mayor , Wally , said Solomon , 'for ever ! No more admirals . 
The Lord Mayor's your admiral . 
'Oh , is he though ! said the boy , shaking his head . 
'Why , the Sword Bearer's better than him . 
He draws his sword sometimes . 
'And a pretty figure he cuts with it for his pains , returned the Uncle . 
'Listen to me , Wally , listen to me . 
'Why who has cocked my silver mug up there , on a nail ? exclaimed the boy . 
I have , said his Uncle . 
We must begin to drink out of glasses to day , Walter . 
We are men of business . 
We belong to the City . 
We started in life this morning . 
'Well , Uncle , said the boy , 'I'll drink out of anything you like , so long as I can drink to you . 
Here's to you , Uncle Sol , and Hurrah for the 'Lord Mayor , interrupted the old man . 
'For the Lord Mayor , Sheriffs , Common Council , and Livery , said the boy . 
'Long life to 'em ! The uncle nodded his head with great satisfaction . 
'And now , he said , 'let's hear something about the Firm . 
'Oh ! there's not much to be told about the Firm , Uncle , said the boy , plying his knife and fork . 
'Nothing else ? said the Uncle . 
'Oh yes , plenty of that I suppose , returned his nephew carelessly 'but all that sort of thing's in Mr Carker's room , or Mr Morfin's , or MR Dombey's . 
'Has Mr Dombey been there to day ? inquired the Uncle . 
'Oh yes ! In and out all day . 
'He didn't take any notice of you , I suppose ? . 
Nephew , Sir , I said . 
I said nephew , boy , said he . 
But I could take my oath he said son , Uncle . 
'No , it's no matter , but he needn't have been so sharp , I thought . 
There was no harm in it though he did say son . 
I thought he didn't seem to like me much . 
'You mean , I suppose , observed the Instrument maker , 'that you didn't seem to like him much ? 'Well , Uncle , returned the boy , laughing . 
'Perhaps so I never thought of that . 
Solomon looked a little graver as he finished his dinner , and glanced from time to time at the boy's bright face . 
, he lighted a candle , and went down below into a little cellar , while his nephew , standing on the mouldy staircase , dutifully held the light . 
After a moment's groping here and there , he presently returned with a very ancient looking bottle , covered with dust and dirt . 
My love to you ! Some of the fog that hung about old Sol seemed to have got into his throat for he spoke huskily . 
His hand shook too , as he clinked his glass against his nephew's . 
But having once got the wine to his lips , he tossed it off like a man , and smacked them afterwards . 
I shall now beg to propose Mr Solomon Gills with three times three and one cheer more . 
His Uncle sat looking at him for some time in silence . 
When their eyes at last met , he began at once to pursue the theme that had occupied his thoughts , aloud , as if he had been speaking all the time . 
'You see , Walter , he said , 'in truth this business is merely a habit with me . 
I am so accustomed to the habit that I could hardly live if I relinquished it but there's nothing doing , nothing doing . 
When that uniform was worn , pointing out towards the little Midshipman , 'then indeed , fortunes were to be made , and were made . 
But competition , competition new invention , new invention alteration , alteration the world's gone past me . 
I hardly know where I am myself , much less where my customers are . 
'Two , Uncle , don't you recollect ? There was the man who came to ask for change for a sovereign 'That's the one , said Solomon . 
'Why Uncle ! don't you call the woman anybody , who came to ask the way to Mile End Turnpike ? 'Oh ! it's true , said Solomon , 'I forgot her . 
'To be sure , they didn't buy anything , cried the boy . 
They didn't buy anything , said Solomon , quietly . 
'Nor want anything , cried the boy . 
If they had , they'd gone to another shop , said Solomon , in the same tone . 
'But there were two of 'em , Uncle , cried the boy , as if that were a great triumph . 
As I said just now , the world has gone past me . 
I don't blame it but I no longer understand it . 
Tradesmen are not the same as they used to be , apprentices are not the same , business is not the same , business commodities are not the same . 
Seven eighths of my stock is old fashioned . 
I am an old fashioned man in an old fashioned shop , in a street that is not the same as I remember it . 
I have fallen behind the time , and am too old to catch it again . 
Even the noise it makes a long way ahead , confuses me . 
Walter was going to speak , but his Uncle held up his hand . 
'Therefore , Wally therefore it is that I am anxious you should be early in the busy world , and on the world's track . 
I am only the ghost of this business its substance vanished long ago and when I die , its ghost will be laid . 
Some people suppose me to be wealthy . 
I wish for your sake they were right . 
But whatever I leave behind me , or whatever I can give you , you in such a House as Dombey's are in the road to use well and make the most of . 
Indeed I will , said the boy , earnestly 'I know it , said Solomon . 
'I am sure of it , and he applied himself to a second glass of the old Madeira , with increased relish . 
'As to the Sea , he pursued , 'that's well enough in fiction , Wally , but it won't do in fact it won't do at all . 
It's natural enough that you should think about it , associating it with all these familiar things but it won't do , it won't do . 
Solomon Gills rubbed his hands with an air of stealthy enjoyment , as he talked of the sea , though and looked on the seafaring objects about him with inexpressible complacency . 
Think of the pitch dark nights , the roaring winds , and rolling seas 'The thunder , lightning , rain , hail , storm of all kinds , said the boy . 
'To be sure , said Solomon , 'that this wine has passed through . 
'Exactly so , said Solomon 'has gone on , over the old cask that held this wine . 
going to work to stave the casks , got drunk and died drunk , singing Rule Britannia , when she settled and went down , and ending with one awful scream in chorus . 
'And when , said old Sol , 'when the Polyphemus 'Private West India Trader , burden three hundred and fifty tons , Captain , John Brown of Deptford . 
Owners , Wiggs and Co . 
And then the younger , rising in the boat , cried out , Dear Edward , think of your promised wife at home . 
No one waits at home for me . 
He wore a loose black silk handkerchief round his neck , and such a very large coarse shirt collar , that it looked like a small sail . 
He took it up , and having surveyed and smelt it , said with extraordinary expression 'The ? 'The , returned the Instrument maker . 
Upon that he whistled as he filled his glass , and seemed to think they were making holiday indeed . 
'But I never wanted two or three words in my life that I didn't know where to lay my hand upon 'em , Gills , he observed . 
'It comes of not wasting language as some do . 
The reflection perhaps reminded him that he had better , like young Norval's father , ncrease his store . 
'And it would go ! said Captain Cuttle , making a species of serpent in the air with his hook . 
'But he's chockful of science , he observed , waving his hook towards the stock in trade . 
'Look'ye here ! Here's a collection of 'em . 
Earth , air , or water . 
Only say where you'll have it . 
Up in a balloon ? There you are . 
Down in a bell ? There you are . 
D'ye want to put the North Star in a pair of scales and weigh it ? He'll do it for you . 
'Ah ! he said , with a sigh , 'it's a fine thing to understand 'em . 
And yet it's a fine thing not to understand 'em . 
I hardly know which is best . 
It's so comfortable to sit here and feel that you might be weighed , measured , magnified , electrified , polarized , played the very devil with and never know how . 
, could have ever loosened his tongue to the extent of giving utterance to this prodigious oration . 
Becoming a sadder and a wiser man , he mused and held his peace . 
'Come ! cried the subject of this admiration , returning . 
'Before you have your glass of grog , Ned , we must finish the bottle . 
'Stand by ! said Ned , filling his glass . 
'Give the boy some more . 
'No more , thank'e , Uncle ! 'Yes , yes , said Sol , 'a little more . 
We'll finish the bottle , to the House , Ned Walter's House . 
Why it may be his House one of these days , in part . 
Who knows ? Sir Richard Whittington married his master's daughter . 
Turn again Whittington , Lord Mayor of London , and when you are old you will never depart from it , interposed the Captain . 
'Wal'r ! Overhaul the book , my lad . 
'And although Mr Dombey hasn't a daughter , Sol began . 
'Yes , yes , he has , Uncle , said the boy , reddening and laughing . 
'Has he ? cried the old man . 
'Indeed I think he has too . 
'Oh ! I know he has , said the boy . 
'Some of 'em were talking about it in the office today . 
walking in the Docks , looking at his ships and property and all that , as if he was exulting like , over what he and his son will possess together . 
Of course , I don't know . 
'He knows all about her already , you see , said the instrument maker . 
'Nonsense , Uncle , cried the boy , still reddening and laughing , boy like . 
'How can I help hearing what they tell me ? 'The Son's a little in our way at present , I'm afraid , Ned , said the old man , humouring the joke . 
'Very much , said the Captain . 
'Nevertheless , we'll drink him , pursued Sol . 
'So , here's to Dombey and Son . 
'Oh , very well , Uncle , said the boy , merrily . 
'Since you have introduced the mention of her , and have connected me with her and have said that I know all about her , I shall make bold to amend the toast . 
So here's to Dombey and Son and Daughter ! CHAPTER . 
Paul's Progress and Christening Little Paul , suffering no contamination from the blood of the Toodles , grew stouter and stronger every day . 
, that Miss Tox's constancy and zeal were a heavy discouragement to Richards , who lost flesh hourly under her patronage , and was in some danger of being superintended to death . 
She would preside over the innocent repasts of the young heir , with ineffable satisfaction , almost with an air of joint proprietorship with Richards in the entertainment . 
At the little ceremonies of the bath and toilette , she assisted with enthusiasm . 
'Louisa , said Mr Dombey , one day , to his sister , 'I really think I must present your friend with some little token , on the occasion of Paul's christening . 
, that it would really be agreeable to me to notice her . 
It was not so much their merit that they knew themselves , as that they knew him , and bowed low before him . 
'My dear Paul , returned his sister , 'you do Miss Tox but justice , as a man of your penetration was sure , I knew , to do . 
I believe if there are three words in the English language for which she has a respect amounting almost to veneration , those words are , Dombey and Son . 
'Well , said Mr Dombey , 'I believe it . 
It does Miss Tox credit . 
But there is a way , my dear Paul , of showing your sense of Miss Tox's friendliness in a still more flattering and acceptable manner , if you should be so inclined . 
'How is that ? asked Mr Dombey . 
'Godfathers , of course , continued Mrs Chick , 'are important in point of connexion and influence . 
'I don't know why they should be , to my son , said Mr Dombey , coldly . 
'Very true , my dear Paul , retorted Mrs Chick , with an extraordinary show of animation , to cover the suddenness of her conversion 'and spoken like yourself . 
I might have expected nothing else from you . 
I might have known that such would have been your opinion . 
That it would be received as a great honour and distinction , Paul , I need not say . 
Mr Dombey looked at her impatiently . 
'Don't flurry me , my dear Paul , said his sister 'for that destroys me . 
I am far from strong . 
I have not been quite myself , since poor dear Fanny departed . 
'Good Heaven , Louisa ! said Mr Dombey . 
'No , my dear Paul , she remonstrated with tearful dignity , 'I must really be allowed to speak . 
I am not so clever , or so reasoning , or so eloquent , or so anything , as you are . 
I know that very well . 
So much the worse for me . 
And what is more , added Mrs Chick with increased dignity , as if she had withheld her crushing argument until now , 'I never did think it was . 
Mr Dombey walked to the window and back again . 
, 'but that there are many persons who , supposing that I recognised any claim at all in such a case , have a claim upon me superior to Miss Tox's . 
I recognise no such thing . 
The kind of foreign help which people usually seek for their children , I can afford to despise being above it , I hope . 
He will make what powerful friends he pleases in after life , when he is actively maintaining and extending , if that is possible the dignity and credit of the Firm . 
Until then , I am enough for him , perhaps , and all in all . 
I have no wish that people should step in between us . 
I would much rather show my sense of the obliging conduct of a deserving person like your friend . 
Therefore let it be so and your husband and myself will do well enough for the other sponsors , I daresay . 
In the course of these remarks , delivered with great majesty and grandeur , Mr Dombey had truly revealed the secret feelings of his breast . 
In all his life , he had never made a friend . 
His cold and distant nature had neither sought one , nor found one . 
From beneath a leaf of torn and cancelled scraps of paper , he took one letter that remained entire . 
He read it slowly and attentively , and with a nice particularity to every syllable . 
Otherwise than as his great deliberation seemed unnatural , and perhaps the result of an effort equally great , he allowed no sign of emotion to escape him . 
When he had read it through , he folded and refolded it slowly several times , and tore it carefully into fragments . 
Her feelings were so much excited on the occasion , that she found it indispensable to afford them this relief , even without having the comfort of any audience or sympathy whatever . 
'How sound she sleeps ! said Miss Tox . 
'Why , you know , my dear , she takes a great deal of exercise in the course of the day , returned Mrs Chick , 'playing about little Paul so much . 
'She is a curious child , said Miss Tox . 
'My dear , retorted Mrs Chick , in a low voice 'Her Mama , all over ! 'In deed ! said Miss Tox . 
'Ah dear me ! A tone of most extraordinary compassion Miss Tox said it in , though she had no distinct idea why , except that it was expected of her . 
'Florence will never , never , never be a Dombey , 'said Mrs Chick , 'not if she lives to be a thousand years old . 
Miss Tox elevated her eyebrows , and was again full of commiseration . 
'I quite fret and worry myself about her , said Mrs Chick , with a sigh of modest merit . 
'I really don't see what is to become of her when she grows older , or what position she is to take . 
She don't gain on her Papa in the least . 
'And the child , you see , said Mrs Chick , in deep confidence , 'has poor dear Fanny's nature . 
She'll never make an effort in after life , I'll venture to say . 
Never ! She'll never wind and twine herself about her Papa's heart like 'Like the ivy ? suggested Miss Tox . 
'Like the ivy , Mrs Chick assented . 
'Never ! She'll never glide and nestle into the bosom of her Papa's affections like the 'Startled fawn ? suggested Miss Tox . 
'Like the startled fawn , said Mrs Chick . 
'Never ! Poor Fanny ! Yet , how I loved her ! 'You must not distress yourself , my dear , said Miss Tox , in a soothing voice . 
'Now really ! You have too much feeling . 
'We have all our faults , said Mrs Chick , weeping and shaking her head . 
I never was blind to hers . 
I never said I was . 
She had risen , as the nurse said , and the lashes of her eyes were wet with tears . 
But no one saw them glistening save Polly . 
No one else leant over her , and whispered soothing words to her , or was near enough to hear the flutter of her beating heart . 
'Oh ! dear nurse ! said the child , looking earnestly up in her face , 'let me lie by my brother ! 'Why , my pet ? said Richards . 
'Oh ! I think he loves me , cried the child wildly . 
'Let me lie by him . 
'I'll not wake him , she said , covering her face and hanging down her head . 
'I'll only touch him with my hand , and go to sleep . 
'Poor little thing , said Miss Tox 'she has been dreaming , I daresay . 
The two friends accordingly soon made an end of their tea , and a servant was despatched to fetch a hackney cabriolet for Miss Tox . 
Miss Tox had great experience in hackney cabs , and her starting in one was generally a work of time , as she was systematic in the preparatory arrangements . 
'Have the goodness , if you please , Towlinson , said Miss Tox , 'first of all , to carry out a pen and ink and take his number legibly . 
'Yes , Miss , said Towlinson . 
'Then , if you please , Towlinson , 'said Miss Tox , 'have the goodness to turn the cushion . 
Which , said Miss Tox apart to Mrs Chick , 'is generally damp , my dear . 
'Yes , Miss , said Towlinson . 
'I'll trouble you also , if you please , Towlinson , said Miss Tox , 'with this card and this shilling . 
He's to drive to the card , and is to understand that he will not on any account have more than the shilling . 
'No , Miss , said Towlinson . 
'And I'm sorry to give you so much trouble , Towlinson , said Miss Tox , looking at him pensively . 
'Not at all , Miss , said Towlinson . 
You can pretend to say that , if you please , Towlinson , in a friendly way , and because you know it was done to another man , who died . 
'Certainly , Miss , said Towlinson . 
But the nursery being at length free of visitors , she made herself some recompense for her late restraint . 
'Oh you beauties ! cried Susan Nipper , affecting to salute the door by which the ladies had departed . 
'Never be a Dombey won't she ? It's to be hoped she won't , we don't want any more such , one's enough . 
'Don't wake the children , Susan dear , said Polly . 
Mrs Richards , if there's any other orders , you can give me , pray mention 'em . 
'Nonsense orders , said Polly . 
, you may bear in mind , please , that it's one thing to give orders , and quite another thing to take 'em . 
A person may tell a person to dive off a bridge head foremost into five and forty feet of water , Mrs Richards , but a person may be very far from diving . 
'There now , said Polly , 'you're angry because you're a good little thing , and fond of Miss Florence and yet you turn round on me , because there's nobody else . 
It happened to be an iron grey autumnal day , with a shrewd east wind blowing a day in keeping with the proceedings . 
Mr Dombey represented in himself the wind , the shade , and the autumn of the christening . 
Ugh ! They were black , cold rooms and seemed to be in mourning , like the inmates of the house . 
The bookcase , glazed and locked , repudiated all familiarities . 
Mr Pitt , in bronze , on the top , with no trace of his celestial origin' about him , guarded the unattainable treasure like an enchanted Moor . 
But this was before the arrival of Mr and Mrs Chick , his lawful relatives , who soon presented themselves . 
'How do you do , Mr John ? 'How do you do , Sir ? said Chick . 
He gave Mr Dombey his hand , as if he feared it might electrify him . 
Mr Dombey tool it as if it were a fish , or seaweed , or some such clammy substance , and immediately returned it to him with exalted politeness . 
'How do you do , Miss Tox ? said Mr Dombey . 
'I can never forget this occasion , Sir , said Miss Tox , softly . 
My dear Louisa , I can hardly believe the evidence of my senses . 
If Miss Tox could believe the evidence of one of her senses , it was a very cold day . 
The baby soon appeared , carried in great glory by Richards while Florence , in custody of that active young constable , Susan Nipper , brought up the rear . 
Though the whole nursery party were dressed by this time in lighter mourning than at first , there was enough in the appearance of the bereaved children to make the day no brighter . 
The baby too it might have been Miss Tox's nose began to cry . 
Thereby , as it happened , preventing Mr Chick from the awkward fulfilment of a very honest purpose he had which was , to make much of Florence . 
Some honest act of Richards's may have aided the effect , but he did look down , and held his peace . 
Was Mr Dombey pleased to see this ? He testified no pleasure by the relaxation of a nerve but outward tokens of any kind of feeling were unusual with him . 
If any sunbeam stole into the room to light the children at their play , it never reached his face . 
He looked on so fixedly and coldly , that the warm light vanished even from the laughing eyes of little Florence , when , at last , they happened to meet his . 
It was a dull , grey , autumn day indeed , and in a minute's pause and silence that took place , the leaves fell sorrowfully . 
'Mr John , said Mr Dombey , referring to his watch , and assuming his hat and gloves . 
'Take my sister , if you please my arm today is Miss Tox's . 
You had better go first with Master Paul , Richards . 
In Mr Dombey's carriage , Dombey and Son , Miss Tox , Mrs Chick , Richards , and Florence . 
In a little carriage following it , Susan Nipper and the owner Mr Chick . 
Once upon the road to church , Mr Dombey clapped his hands for the amusement of his son . 
At which instance of parental enthusiasm Miss Tox was enchanted . 
But exclusive of this incident , the chief difference between the christening party and a party in a mourning coach consisted in the colours of the carriage and horses . 
Arrived at the church steps , they were received by a portentous beadle . 
Mr Dombey dismounting first to help the ladies out , and standing near him at the church door , looked like another beadle . 
A beadle less gorgeous but more dreadful the beadle of private life the beadle of our business and our bosoms . 
Miss Tox's hand trembled as she slipped it through Mr Dombey's arm , and felt herself escorted up the steps , preceded by a cocked hat and a Babylonian collar . 
It seemed for a moment like that other solemn institution , 'Wilt thou have this man , Lucretia ? 'Yes , I will . 
'Please to bring the child in quick out of the air there , whispered the beadle , holding open the inner door of the church . 
Little Paul might have asked with Hamlet 'into my grave ? so chill and earthy was the place . 
It was a cold and dismal scene . 
'There's a wedding just on , Sir , said the beadle , 'but it'll be over directly , if you'll walk into the westry here . 
remembered to have had the pleasure of attending on him when he buried his wife , and hoped he had enjoyed himself since . 
The very wedding looked dismal as they passed in front of the altar . 
His arrogance contrasted strangely with its history . 
not forgotten , they got into the carriage again , and drove home in the same bleak fellowship . 
On their arrival Miss Tox produced a mug for her godson , and Mr Chick a knife and fork and spoon in a case . 
Mr Dombey also produced a bracelet for Miss Tox and , on the receipt of this token , Miss Tox was tenderly affected . 
'What have you got there , Sir ? 'This , returned Mr Dombey , 'is some cold preparation of calf's head , I think . 
I see cold fowls ham patties salad lobster . 
Miss Tox will do me the honour of taking some wine ? Champagne to Miss Tox . 
There was a toothache in everything . 
Mr Dombey alone remained unmoved . 
He might have been hung up for sale at a Russian fair as a specimen of a frozen gentleman . 
The prevailing influence was too much even for his sister . 
She made no effort at flattery or small talk , and directed all her efforts to looking as warm as she could . 
'Bless him ! murmured Miss Tox , taking a sip of wine . 
'Dear little Dombey ! murmured Mrs Chick . 
The tone in which this was said admitting of nothing more , Mr Chick relapsed into low spirits and silence . 
'Onerous nature of our position in public may I have forgotten the exact term . 
'Expose him to , said Mrs Chick . 
'Pardon me , my dear , returned Miss Tox , 'I think not . 
It was more rounded and flowing . 
Obliging disposition of relations and friends in private , or onerous nature of position in public may impose upon him ! 'Impose upon him , to be sure , said Mrs Chick . 
'During the six months or so , Richards , which have seen you an inmate of this house , you have done your duty . 
'Oh , hush if you please ! said Miss Tox . 
Richards quailed under the magnificence of the reproof . 
'I am far from being friendly , pursued Mr Dombey , 'to what is called by persons of levelling sentiments , general education . 
But it is necessary that the inferior classes should continue to be taught to know their position , and to conduct themselves properly . 
So far I approve of schools . 
nominated your eldest son to an existing vacancy and he has this day , I am informed , assumed the habit . 
Louisa , you can tell her . 
One might wear the articles one's self , said Mrs Chick , with enthusiasm , 'and be grateful . 
'There , Richards ! said Miss Tox . 
'Now , indeed , you may be proud . 
The Charitable Grinders ! 'I am sure I am very much obliged , Sir , returned Richards faintly , 'and take it very kind that you should remember my little ones . 
'I am very glad to see you have so much feeling , Richards , said Miss Tox . 
Such temporary indications of a partial thaw that had appeared with her , vanished with her and the frost set in again , as cold and hard as ever . 
Mr Chick was twice heard to hum a tune at the bottom of the table , but on both occasions it was a fragment of the Dead March in Saul . 
The party seemed to get colder and colder , and to be gradually resolving itself into a congealed and solid state , like the collation round which it was assembled . 
At length Mrs Chick looked at Miss Tox , and Miss Tox returned the look , and they both rose and said it was really time to go . 
Richards , though she had little Paul on her lap , could not forget her own first born . 
She spoke , too , in the nursery , of his 'blessed legs , and was again troubled by his spectre in uniform . 
'I don't know what I wouldn't give , said Polly , 'to see the poor little dear before he gets used to 'em . 
'Why , then , I tell you what , Mrs Richards , retorted Nipper , who had been admitted to her confidence , 'see him and make your mind easy . 
'Mr Dombey wouldn't like it , said Polly . 
'Oh , wouldn't he , Mrs Richards ! retorted Nipper , 'he'd like it very much , I think when he was asked . 
'You wouldn't ask him , I suppose , at all ? said Polly . 
At length , arguing that there could be no great harm in calling for a moment at the door , she yielded to the Nipper proposition . 
The matter being settled thus , little Paul began to cry most piteously , as if he had a foreboding that no good would come of it . 
'What's the matter with the child ? asked Susan . 
'He's cold , I think , said Polly , walking with him to and fro , and hushing him . 
on pocket handkerchiefs , condenses , with some show of reason , into Camden Town . 
The first shock of a great earthquake had , just at that period , rent the whole neighbourhood to its centre . 
Traces of its course were visible on every side . 
Hot springs and fiery eruptions , the usual attendants upon earthquakes , lent their contributions of confusion to the scene . 
But as yet , the neighbourhood was shy to own the Railroad . 
One or two bold speculators had projected streets and one had built a little , but had stopped among the mud and ashes to consider farther of it . 
Lodging house keepers were favourable in like manner and for the like reasons were not to be trusted . 
The general belief was very slow . 
Posts , and rails , and old cautions to trespassers , and backs of mean houses , and patches of wretched vegetation , stared it out of countenance . 
Nothing was the better for it , or thought of being so . 
If the miserable waste ground lying near it could have laughed , it would have laughed it to scorn , like many of the miserable neighbours . 
Staggs's Gardens was uncommonly incredulous . 
, dried clothes , and smoked pipes . 
Some were of opinion that Staggs's Gardens derived its name from a deceased capitalist , one Mr Staggs , who had built it for his delectation . 
'Is it , indeed , Mrs Richards ? said Susan , condescendingly . 
'Why , Polly ! cried Jemima . 
'Oh do come in and sit down a minute , Susan , please , said Polly . 
'This is my sister Jemima , this is . 
Jemima , I don't know what I should ever do with myself , if it wasn't for Susan Nipper I shouldn't be here now but for her . 
'Oh do sit down , Miss Nipper , if you please , quoth Jemima . 
Susan took the extreme corner of a chair , with a stately and ceremonious aspect . 
'I never was so glad to see anybody in all my life now really I never was , Miss Nipper , said Jemima . 
Susan relaxing , took a little more of the chair , and smiled graciously . 
'Do untie your bonnet strings , and make yourself at home , Miss Nipper , please , entreated Jemima . 
'I am afraid it's a poorer place than you're used to but you'll make allowances , I'm sure . 
The black eyed was so softened by this deferential behaviour , that she caught up little Miss Toodle who was running past , and took her to Banbury Cross immediately . 
'But where's my pretty boy ? said Polly . 
'My poor fellow ? I came all this way to see him in his new clothes . 
'Ah what a pity ! cried Jemima . 
'He'll break his heart , when he hears his mother has been here . 
He's at school , Polly . 
He went for the first time yesterday , for fear he should lose any learning . 
'And how does he look , Jemima , bless him ! faltered Polly . 
'Well , really he don't look so bad as you'd suppose , returned Jemima . 
'Ah ! said Polly , with emotion , 'I knew his legs must be too short . 
His legs is short , returned Jemima 'especially behind but they'll get longer , Polly , every day . 
It was a slow , prospective kind of consolation but the cheerfulness and good nature with which it was administered , gave it a value it did not intrinsically possess . 
'There again ! said Jemima . 
'What a pity ! Father took his dinner with him this morning , and isn't coming home till night . 
'Oh you needn't thank me , Polly , said her sister , giving her a sounding kiss upon the cheek , and then dancing little Paul cheerfully . 
'I say the same of you sometimes , and think it too . 
Also an exact inventory of her personal wardrobe , and some account of her principal relations and friends . 
Having relieved her mind of these disclosures , she partook of shrimps and porter , and evinced a disposition to swear eternal friendship . 
on her degenerate nature , while washing her face and hands and predicted that she would bring the grey hairs of her family in general , with sorrow to the grave . 
'Do you think that we might make time to go a little round in that direction , Susan ? inquired Polly , when they halted to take breath . 
'Why not , Mrs Richards ? returned Susan . 
'It's getting on towards our dinner time you know , said Polly . 
But lunch had rendered her companion more than indifferent to this grave consideration , so she allowed no weight to it , and they resolved to go 'a little round . 
Now , it happened that poor Biler's life had been , since yesterday morning , rendered weary by the costume of the Charitable Grinders . 
The youth of the streets could not endure it . 
No young vagabond could be brought to bear its contemplation for a moment , without throwing himself upon the unoffending wearer , and doing him a mischief . 
His social existence had been more like that of an early Christian , than an innocent child of the nineteenth century . 
He had been stoned in the streets . 
He had been overthrown into gutters bespattered with mud violently flattened against posts . 
Entire strangers to his person had lifted his yellow cap off his head , and cast it to the winds . 
His legs had not only undergone verbal criticisms and revilings , but had been handled and pinched . 
Thus it fell out that Biler , on his way home , sought unfrequented paths and slunk along by narrow passages and back streets , to avoid his tormentors . 
These , finding a Charitable Grinder in the midst of them unaccountably delivered over , as it were , into their hands set up a general yell and rushed upon him . 
She no sooner saw it than , uttering a hasty exclamation , and giving Master Dombey to the black eyed , she started to the rescue of her unhappy little son . 
Surprises , like misfortunes , rarely come alone . 
a thundering alarm of 'Mad Bull ! was raised . 
'Susan ! Susan ! cried Florence , clapping her hands in the very ecstasy of her alarm . 
'Why did you run away from 'em ? 'I was frightened , answered Florence . 
'I didn't know what I did . 
I thought they were with me . 
Where are they ? The old woman took her by the wrist , and said , 'I'll show you . 
She was a very ugly old woman , with red rims round her eyes , and a mouth that mumbled and chattered of itself when she was not speaking . 
She was miserably dressed , and carried some skins over her arm . 
Florence was afraid of her , and looked , hesitating , up the street , of which she had almost reached the bottom . 
It was a solitary place more a back road than a street and there was no one in it but her self and the old woman . 
'You needn't be frightened now , said the old woman , still holding her tight . 
'I I don't know you . 
What's your name ? asked Florence . 
'Mrs Brown , said the old woman . 
'Are they near here ? asked Florence , beginning to be led away . 
'Susan ain't far off , said Good Mrs Brown 'and the others are close to her . 
'Is anybody hurt ? cried Florence . 
'Not a bit of it , said Good Mrs Brown . 
She stopped before a shabby little house , as closely shut up as a house that was full of cracks and crevices could be . 
The child became so terrified the she was stricken speechless , and looked as though about to swoon . 
'Now don't be a young mule , said Good Mrs Brown , reviving her with a shake . 
'I'm not a going to hurt you . 
Florence obeyed her , holding out her folded hands , in mute supplication . 
'I'm not a going to keep you , even , above an hour , said Mrs Brown . 
'D'ye understand what I say ? The child answered with great difficulty , 'Yes . 
'Then , said Good Mrs Brown , taking her own seat on the bones , 'don't vex me . 
If you don't , I tell you I won't hurt you . 
But if you do , I'll kill you . 
I could have you killed at any time even if you was in your own bed at home . 
Now let's know who you are , and what you are , and all about it . 
Mrs Brown listened attentively , until she had finished . 
'So your name's Dombey , eh ? said Mrs Brown . 
'I want that pretty frock , Miss Dombey , said Good Mrs Brown , 'and that little bonnet , and a petticoat or two , and anything else you can spare . 
Come ! Take 'em off . 
Florence obeyed , as fast as her trembling hands would allow keeping , all the while , a frightened eye on Mrs Brown . 
When she had divested herself of all the articles of apparel mentioned by that lady , Mrs B. examined them at leisure , and seemed tolerably well satisfied with their quality and value . 
'Humph ! she said , running her eyes over the child's slight figure , 'I don't see anything else except the shoes . 
I must have the shoes , Miss Dombey . 
Poor little Florence took them off with equal alacrity , only too glad to have any more means of conciliation about her . 
In this dainty raiment , she instructed Florence to dress herself and as such preparation seemed a prelude to her release , the child complied with increased readiness , if possible . 
Good Mrs Brown whipped out a large pair of scissors , and fell into an unaccountable state of excitement . 
'Why couldn't you let me be ! said Mrs Brown , 'when I was contented ? You little fool ! 'I beg your pardon . 
I don't know what I have done , panted Florence . 
'Couldn't help it ! cried Mrs Brown . 
'If I hadn't once had a gal of my own beyond seas now that was proud of her hair , said Mrs Brown , 'I'd have had every lock of it . 
, but to her father's office in the City also to wait at the street corner where she would be left , until the clock struck three . 
These directions Mrs Brown enforced with assurances that there would be potent eyes and ears in her employment cognizant of all she did and these directions Florence promised faithfully and earnestly to observe . 
With a lighter heart , but still sore afraid , Florence felt herself released , and tripped off to the corner . 
But though she often looked back afterwards every minute , at least , in her nervous recollection of the old woman she could not see her again . 
All she knew of her father's offices was that they belonged to Dombey and Son , and that that was a great power belonging to the City . 
But few people noticed her at those times , in the garb she wore or if they did , believed that she was tutored to excite compassion , and passed on . 
'Now then ! 'said this man , happening to turn round . 
'We haven't got anything for you , little girl . 
Be off ! 'If you please , is this the City ? asked the trembling daughter of the Dombeys . 
'Ah ! It's the City . 
You know that well enough , I daresay . 
Be off ! We haven't got anything for you . 
'I don't want anything , thank you , was the timid answer . 
'Except to know the way to Dombey and Son's . 
The man looked at her yet more curiously , and rubbed the back of his head so hard in his wonderment that he knocked his own hat off . 
'Joe ! he called to another man a labourer as he picked it up and put it on again . 
'Joe it is ! said Joe . 
'Where's that young spark of Dombey's who's been watching the shipment of them goods ? 'Just gone , by t'other gate , said Joe . 
'Call him back a minute . 
Joe ran up an archway , bawling as he went , and very soon returned with a blithe looking boy . 
'You're Dombey's jockey , ain't you ? said the first man . 
'I'm in Dombey's House , Mr Clark , returned the boy . 
'Look'ye here , then , said Mr Clark . 
Obedient to the indication of Mr Clark's hand , the boy approached towards Florence , wondering , as well he might , what he had to do with her . 
'I am lost , if you please ! said Florence . 
'Lost ! cried the boy . 
Mr Clark stood rapt in amazement observing under his breath , I never saw such a start on this wharf before . 
Walter picked up the shoe , and put it on the little foot as the Prince in the story might have fitted Cinderella's slipper on . 
'Don't cry , Miss Dombey , said Walter , in a transport of enthusiasm . 
'I won't cry any more , said Florence . 
'I am only crying for joy . 
'Crying for joy ! thought Walter , 'and I'm the cause of it ! Come along , Miss Dombey . 
There's the other shoe off now ! Take mine , Miss Dombey . 
'No , no , no , said Florence , checking him in the act of impetuously pulling off his own . 
'Why , to be sure , said Walter , glancing at her foot , 'mine are a mile too large . 
What am I thinking about ! You never could walk in mine ! Come along , Miss Dombey . 
Let me see the villain who will dare molest you now . 
'Have we far to go ? asked Florence at last , lilting up her eyes to her companion's face . 
'Ah ! By the bye , said Walter , stopping , 'let me see where are we ? Oh ! I know . 
But the offices are shut up now , Miss Dombey . 
Mr Dombey has gone home long ago . 
I suppose we must go home too ? or , stay . 
Won't that be best ? 'I think so , answered Florence . 
'Why , I think it's Mr Carker , said Walter . 
Not Carker our Manager , Miss Dombey the other Carker the Junior Halloa ! Mr Carker ! 'Is that Walter Gay ? said the other , stopping and returning . 
'I couldn't believe it , with such a strange companion . 
As he stood near a lamp , listening with surprise to Walter's hurried explanation , he presented a remarkable contrast to the two youthful figures arm in arm before him . 
'What do you advise , Mr Carker ? said Walter , smiling . 
'You always give me good advice , you know , when you do speak to me . 
That's not often , though . 
'I think your own idea is the best , he answered looking from Florence to Walter , and back again . 
'Mr Carker , said Walter , brightening with a generous thought , 'Come ! Here's a chance for you . 
Go you to Mr Dombey's , and be the messenger of good news . 
It may do you some good , Sir . 
'I ! returned the other . 
Why not , Mr Carker ? said the boy . 
'Come , Miss Dombey , said Walter , looking after him as they turned away also , 'we'll go to my Uncle's as quick as we can . 
Did you ever hear Mr Dombey speak of Mr Carker the Junior , Miss Florence ? 'No , returned the child , mildly , 'I don't often hear Papa speak . 
'Ah ! true ! more shame for him , thought Walter . 
, is our head Manager , you would be as much puzzled about him as I am . 
'Holloa , Uncle Sol ! cried Walter , bursting into the shop , and speaking incoherently and out of breath , from that time forth , for the rest of the evening . 
'It can't be ! Well , I 'No , nor anybody else , said Walter , anticipating the rest . 
'Nobody would , nobody could , you know . 
'Here , wait a minute , Uncle , he continued , catching up a candle , 'till I run upstairs , and get another jacket on , and then I'll be off . 
'Yes , yes , yes , cried Solomon , cutting instantly into a leg of mutton , as if he were catering for a giant . 
'I'll take care of her , Wally ! I understand . 
Pretty dear ! Famished , of course . 
You go and get ready . 
Lord bless me ! Sir Richard Whittington thrice Lord Mayor of London . 
Thus , when the boy returned , she was sleeping peacefully . 
'That's capital ! he whispered , giving Solomon such a hug that it squeezed a new expression into his face . 
I'll just take a crust of bread with me , for I'm very hungry and don't wake her , Uncle Sol . 
'No , no , said Solomon . 
'Pretty , indeed ! cried Walter . 
'I never saw such a face , Uncle Sol . 
'That's right , said Solomon , greatly relieved . 
'I say , Uncle Sol , cried Walter , putting his face in at the door . 
'Here he is again , said Solomon . 
'How does she look now ? 'Quite happy , said Solomon . 
'That's famous ! now I'm off . 
'I hope you are , said Solomon to himself . 
'I say , Uncle Sol , cried Walter , reappearing at the door . 
'Here he is again ! said Solomon . 
'We met Mr Carker the Junior in the street , queerer than ever . 
How does she look now , Uncle ? 'Pretty much the same as before , Wally , replied Uncle Sol . 
'Oh ! I beg your pardon , Sir , said Walter , rushing up to him , 'but I'm happy to say it's all right , Sir . 
'I told you , Louisa , that she would certainly be found , said Mr Dombey , looking slightly over his shoulder at that lady , who wept in company with Miss Tox . 
'Let the servants know that no further steps are necessary . 
This boy who brings the information , is young Gay , from the office . 
How was my daughter found , Sir ? I know how she was lost . 
Here he looked majestically at Richards . 
It was quite out of Walter's power to be coherent but he rendered himself as explanatory as he could , in his breathless state , and stated why he had come alone . 
'You hear this , girl ? said Mr Dombey sternly to the black eyed . 
'Take what is necessary , and return immediately with this young man to fetch Miss Florence home . 
Gay , you will be rewarded to morrow . 
'Oh ! thank you , Sir , said Walter . 
I'm sure I was not thinking of any reward , Sir . 
'You are a boy , said Mr Dombey , suddenly and almost fiercely 'and what you think of , or affect to think of , is of little consequence . 
You have done well , Sir . 
Louisa , please to give the lad some wine . 
caught her in her arms without a word of contradiction or reproach , and made a very hysterical meeting of it . 
'Good night ! said Florence , running up to Solomon . 
'You have been very good to me . 
Old Sol was quite delighted , and kissed her like her grand father . 
'Good night , Walter ! Good bye ! said Florence . 
'Good bye ! said Walter , giving both his hands . 
'I'll never forget you , pursued Florence . 
'No ! indeed I never will . 
Good bye , Walter ! In the innocence of her grateful heart , the child lifted up her face to his . 
Walter , bending down his own , raised it again , all red and burning and looked at Uncle Sol , quite sheepishly . 
In good time Mr Dombey's mansion was gained again , and again there was a noise of tongues in the library . 
Again , too , the coach was ordered to wait 'for Mrs Richards , one of Susan's fellow servants ominously whispered , as she passed with Florence . 
The entrance of the lost child made a slight sensation , but not much . 
Mr Dombey , who had never found her , kissed her once upon the forehead , and cautioned her not to run away again , or wander anywhere with treacherous attendants . 
Miss Tox regulated her feelings by the models before her . 
Richards , the culprit Richards , alone poured out her heart in broken words of welcome , and bowed herself over the little wandering head as if she really loved it . 
'Ah , Richards ! said Mrs Chick , with a sigh . 
'Louisa ! said Mr Dombey . 
'It is not necessary to prolong these observations . 
The woman is discharged and paid . 
I think , Louisa , the other nurse , the young person , here Miss Nipper sobbed aloud , 'being so much younger , and necessarily influenced by Paul's nurse , may remain . 
Have the goodness to direct that this woman's coach is paid to' Mr Dombey stopped and winced 'to Staggs's Gardens . 
Polly moved towards the door , with Florence holding to her dress , and crying to her in the most pathetic manner not to go away . 
Not that he cared to whom his daughter turned , or from whom turned away . 
The swift sharp agony struck through him , as he thought of what his son might do . 
His son cried lustily that night , at all events . 
At the same blow , his sister too , who cried herself to sleep so mournfully , had lost as good and true a friend . 
But that is quite beside the question . 
Let us waste no words about it . 
The Princess's Arms was also there , and much resorted to by splendid footmen . 
was decorated with a pewter pot . 
Perhaps there never was a smaller entry and staircase , than the entry and staircase of Miss Tox's house . 
It might be poor , mean , shabby , stupid , dull . 
The great street round the corner trailed off into Princess's Place and that which of High Holborn would have become a choleric word , spoken of Princess's Place became flat blasphemy . 
'Joey B. , Sir , 'the Major would say , with a flourish of his walking stick , 'is worth a dozen of you . 
If you had a few more of the Bagstock breed among you , Sir , you'd be none the worse for it . 
Notwithstanding his very liberal laudation of himself , however , the Major was selfish . 
He had no idea of being overlooked or slighted by anybody least of all , had he the remotest comprehension of being overlooked and slighted by Miss Tox . 
And yet , Miss Tox , as it appeared , forgot him gradually forgot him . 
She began to forget him soon after her discovery of the Toodle family . 
She continued to forget him up to the time of the christening . 
She went on forgetting him with compound interest after that . 
Something or somebody had superseded him as a source of interest . 
'Good morning , Ma'am , said the Major , meeting Miss Tox in Princess's Place , some weeks after the changes chronicled in the last chapter . 
'Good morning , Sir , said Miss Tox very coldly . 
'Joe Bagstock , Ma'am , observed the Major , with his usual gallantry , 'has not had the happiness of bowing to you at your window , for a considerable period . 
Joe has been hardly used , Ma'am . 
His sun has been behind a cloud . 
Miss Tox inclined her head but very coldly indeed . 
'Joe's luminary has been out of town , Ma'am , perhaps , inquired the Major . 
'I ? out of town ? oh no , I have not been out of town , said Miss Tox . 
'I have been much engaged lately . 
My time is nearly all devoted to some very intimate friends . 
I am afraid I have none to spare , even now . 
What's the meaning of it ? The Major decided , after some consideration , that it meant mantraps that it meant plotting and snaring that Miss Tox was digging pitfalls . 
'But you won't catch Joe , Ma'am , said the Major . 
'He's tough , Ma'am , tough , is J. B. Tough , and de vilish sly ! over which reflection he chuckled for the rest of the day . 
Other changes had come to pass too . 
Over and above all this , Miss Tox had long been dressed with uncommon care and elegance in slight mourning . 
But this helped the Major out of his difficulty and be determined within himself that she had come into a small legacy , and grown proud . 
'It's a Baby , Sir , said the Major , shutting up the glass again , 'for fifty thousand pounds ! The Major couldn't forget it . 
He could do nothing but whistle , and stare to that extent , that his eyes , compared with what they now became , had been in former times quite cavernous and sunken . 
Day after day , two , three , four times a week , this Baby reappeared . 
The Major continued to stare and whistle . 
To all other intents and purposes he was alone in Princess's Place . 
Miss Tox had ceased to mind what he did . 
He might have been black as well as blue , and it would have been of no consequence to her . 
But whatever she looked at sun , moon , stars , or bracelet she looked no more at the Major . 
And the Major whistled , and stared , and wondered , and dodged about his room , and could make nothing of it . 
'You'll quite win my brother Paul's heart , and that's the truth , my dear , said Mrs Chick , one day . 
'He grows more like Paul every day , said Mrs Chick . 
Miss Tox returned no other reply than by taking the little Paul in her arms , and making his cockade perfectly flat and limp with her caresses . 
'Why , poor dear Fanny was interesting , said Mrs Chick , after some judicial consideration . 
Miss Tox heaved a deep sigh . 
'But she was pleasing said Mrs Chick 'extremely so . 
And she meant ! oh , dear , how well poor Fanny meant ! 'You Angel ! cried Miss Tox to little Paul . 
Paul's Further Progress , Growth and Character Beneath the watching and attentive eyes of Time so far another Major Paul's slumbers gradually changed . 
every social bond , and moral obligation . 
Yet , in spite of his early promise , all this vigilance and care could not make little Paul a thriving boy . 
This dangerous ground in his steeple chase towards manhood passed , he still found it very rough riding , and was grievously beset by all the obstacles in his course . 
Every tooth was a break neck fence , and every pimple in the measles a stone wall to him . 
Mrs Wickam often said she never see a dear so put upon . 
It is hardly necessary to observe , that no touch of this quality ever reached the magnificent knowledge of Mr Dombey . 
He had settled , within himself , that the child must necessarily pass through a certain routine of minor maladies , and that the sooner he did so the better . 
For the feeling uppermost in his mind , now and constantly intensifying , and increasing in it as Paul grew older , was impatience . 
Impatience for the time to come , when his visions of their united consequence and grandeur would be triumphantly realized . 
Some philosophers tell us that selfishness is at the root of our best loves and affections . 
But he loved his son with all the love he had . 
Therefore he was impatient to advance into the future , and to hurry over the intervening passages of his history . 
Thus Paul grew to be nearly five years old . 
They were the strangest pair at such a time that ever firelight shone upon . 
Mr Dombey entertaining complicated worldly schemes and plans the little image entertaining Heaven knows what wild fancies , half formed thoughts , and wandering speculations . 
Mr Dombey stiff with starch and arrogance the little image by inheritance , and in unconscious imitation . 
The two so very much alike , and yet so monstrously contrasted . 
'What is money , Paul ? he answered . 
Guineas , shillings , half pence . 
You know what they are ? 'Oh yes , I know what they are , said Paul . 
'I don't mean that , Papa . 
, and looking at the fire , and up at him , and at the fire , and up at him again . 
Mr Dombey drew his chair back to its former place , and patted him on the head . 
'You'll know better by and by , my man , he said . 
'Money , Paul , can do anything . 
He took hold of the little hand , and beat it softly against one of his own , as he said so . 
Anything almost , said Mr Dombey . 
'Anything means everything , don't it , Papa ? asked his son not observing , or possibly not understanding , the qualification . 
'It includes it yes , said Mr Dombey . 
'Why didn't money save me my Mama ? returned the child . 
'It isn't cruel , is it ? 'Cruel ! said Mr Dombey , settling his neckcloth , and seeming to resent the idea . 
A good thing can't be cruel . 
He didn't ask the question of his father this time . 
Perhaps he had seen , with a child's quickness , that it had already made his father uncomfortable . 
And how it could do all , that could be done . 
'It can't make me strong and quite well , either , Papa can it ? asked Paul , after a short silence rubbing his tiny hands . 
'Why , you are strong and quite well , returned Mr Dombey . 
'Oh , it's not at night , Papa , returned the child , 'it's in the day and I lie down in Florence's lap , and she sings to me . 
Once he advanced his other hand , and turned the contemplative face towards his own for a moment . 
But it sought the fire again as soon as he released it and remained , addressed towards the flickering blaze , until the nurse appeared , to summon him to bed . 
'I want Florence to come for me , said Paul . 
'Won't you come with your poor Nurse Wickam , Master Paul ? inquired that attendant , with great pathos . 
'No , I won't , replied Paul , composing himself in his arm chair again , like the master of the house . 
Invoking a blessing upon his innocence , Mrs Wickam withdrew , and presently Florence appeared in her stead . 
So they went , toiling up she singing all the way , and Paul sometimes crooning out a feeble accompaniment . 
'For the child is hardly , said Mr Dombey , 'as stout as I could wish . 
It merely relates to the Bulbul . 
Mr Dombey bent his head in stately recognition of the Bulbuls as an old established body . 
'With your usual happy discrimination , my dear Paul , resumed Mrs Chick , 'you have hit the point at once . 
Our darling is altogether as stout as we could wish . 
The fact is , that his mind is too much for him . 
His soul is a great deal too large for his frame . 
I am sure the way in which that dear child talks ! 'said Mrs Chick , shaking her head 'no one would believe . 
He was speaking to me last night about his about his Bones , said Mr Dombey , laying an irritated stress upon the word . 
'What on earth has anybody to do with the with the Bones of my son ? He is not a living skeleton , I suppose . 
'Very far from it , said Mrs Chick , with unspeakable expression . 
'I hope so , returned her brother . 
'Funerals again ! who talks to the child of funerals ? We are not undertakers , or mutes , or grave diggers , I believe . 
'Very far from it , interposed Mrs Chick , with the same profound expression as before . 
'Then who puts such things into his head ? said Mr Dombey . 
'Really I was quite dismayed and shocked last night . 
Who puts such things into his head , Louisa ? 'My dear Paul , said Mrs Chick , after a moment's silence , 'it is of no use inquiring . 
'Exactly so , said Mrs Chick 'but she is exceedingly attentive and useful , and not at all presumptuous indeed I never saw a more biddable woman . 
I would say that for her , if I was put upon my trial before a Court of Justice . 
'Well ! you are not put upon your trial before a Court of Justice , at present , Louisa , returned Mr Dombey , chafing , and therefore it don't matter . 
'I was inquiring , Louisa , observed Mr Dombey , in an altered voice , and after a decent interval , 'about Paul's health and actual state . 
'Members ! repeated Mr Dombey . 
'I think the medical gentleman mentioned legs this morning , my dear Louisa , did he not ? said Miss Tox . 
'Why , of course he did , my love , retorted Mrs Chick , mildly reproachful . 
'How can you ask me ? You heard him . 
The sooner you understand that , Paul , and admit that , the better . 
Call Towlinson , said Mrs Chick , 'I believe he has no prejudice in our favour quite the contrary . 
'I am glad to hear it , Paul , said Mrs Chick 'but really you are very odd , and sometimes talk very strangely , though without meaning it , I know . 
He's as like his Papa as he can be . 
People have noticed it in the streets . 
The very beadle , I am informed , observed it , so long ago as at his christening . 
He's a very respectable man , with children of his own . 
'Mr Pilkins saw Paul this morning , I believe ? said Mr Dombey . 
'Yes , he did , returned his sister . 
'Miss Tox and myself were present . 
Miss Tox and myself are always present . 
We make a point of it . 
Mr Pilkins has seen him for some days past , and a very clever man I believe him to be . 
He says it is nothing to speak of which I can confirm , if that is any consolation but he recommended , to day , sea air . 
Very wisely , Paul , I feel convinced . 
'Sea air , repeated Mr Dombey , looking at his sister . 
'There is nothing to be made uneasy by , in that , 'said Mrs Chick . 
'My George and Frederick were both ordered sea air , when they were about his age and I have been ordered it myself a great many times . 
If he were a common child , there would be nothing in it . 
Her husband broke his heart in how did you say her husband broke his heart , my dear ? I forget the precise circumstances . 
'In pumping water out of the Peruvian Mines , replied Miss Tox . 
I believe that Mrs Pipchin's management of children is quite astonishing . 
Many ladies and gentleman , now grown up to be interesting members of society , have been indebted to her care . 
The humble individual who addresses you was once under her charge . 
I believe juvenile nobility itself is no stranger to her establishment . 
'Do I understand that this respectable matron keeps an establishment , Miss Tox ? the Mr Dombey , condescendingly . 
'Why , I really don't know , rejoined that lady , 'whether I am justified in calling it so . 
It is not a Preparatory School by any means . 
'Oh ! Exclusion itself ! said Miss Tox . 
There was something in this . 
Mrs Pipchin's husband having broken his heart of the Peruvian mines was good . 
It had a rich sound . 
Besides , Mr Dombey was in a state almost amounting to consternation at the idea of Paul remaining where he was one hour after his removal had been recommended by the medical practitioner . 
It was a stoppage and delay upon the road the child must traverse , slowly at the best , before the goal was reached . 
Broke his heart of the Peruvian mines , mused Mr Dombey . 
Well ! a very respectable way of doing It . 
'Supposing we should decide , on to morrow's inquiries , to send Paul down to Brighton to this lady , who would go with him ? inquired Mr Dombey , after some reflection . 
'I don't think you could send the child anywhere at present without Florence , my dear Paul , returned his sister , hesitating . 
'It's quite an infatuation with him . 
He's very young , you know , and has his fancies . 
Mr Dombey turned his head away , and going slowly to the bookcase , and unlocking it , brought back a book to read . 
'Anybody else , Louisa ? he said , without looking up , and turning over the leaves . 
Wickam would be quite sufficient , I should say , returned his sister . 
'Paul being in such hands as Mrs Pipchin's , you could hardly send anybody who would be a further check upon her . 
You would go down yourself once a week at least , of course . 
'Of course , said Mr Dombey and sat looking at one page for an hour afterwards , without reading one word . 
In the winter time the air couldn't be got out of the Castle , and in the summer time it couldn't be got in . 
However choice examples of their kind , too , these plants were of a kind peculiarly adapted to the embowerment of Mrs Pipchin . 
, for having sniffed thrice , in the presence of visitors . 
'Well , Sir , said Mrs Pipchin to Paul , 'how do you think you shall like me ? 'I don't think I shall like you at all , replied Paul . 
'I want to go away . 
It's mine , retorted Mrs Pipchin . 
'It's a very nasty one , said Paul . 
'There's a worse place in it than this though , said Mrs Pipchin , 'where we shut up our bad boys . 
'Has he ever been in it ? asked Paul pointing out Master Bitherstone . 
was led in from captivity by the ogress herself , and instructed that nobody who sniffed before visitors ever went to Heaven . 
Mrs Pipchin's niece , Berinthia , took cold pork . 
Mrs Pipchin , whose constitution required warm nourishment , made a special repast of mutton chops , which were brought in hot and hot , between two plates , and smelt very nice . 
to the Dungeon an empty room looking out upon a chalk wall and a water butt , and made ghastly by a ragged fireplace without any stove in it . 
And whenever Mrs Pipchin caught herself falling forward into the fire , and woke up , she filliped Master Bitherstone on the nose for nodding too . 
At last it was the children's bedtime , and after prayers they went to bed . 
diversified the prevailing fragrance of the house , which Mrs Wickam said was 'a smell of building and slumber fell upon the Castle shortly after . 
The breakfast next morning was like the tea over night , except that Mrs Pipchin took her roll instead of toast , and seemed a little more irate when it was over . 
Paul and Florence went out in the meantime on the beach with Wickam who was constantly in tears and at about noon Mrs Pipchin presided over some Early Readings . 
Such was life at Mrs Pipchin's . 
Sunday evening was the most melancholy evening in the week for Mrs Pipchin always made a point of being particularly cross on Sunday nights . 
But it was generally said that Mrs Pipchin was a woman of system with children and no doubt she was . 
Certainly the wild ones went home tame enough , after sojourning for a few months beneath her hospitable roof . 
At this exemplary old lady , Paul would sit staring in his little arm chair by the fire , for any length of time . 
He never seemed to know what weariness was , when he was looking fixedly at Mrs Pipchin . 
He was not fond of her he was not afraid of her but in those old , old moods of his , she seemed to have a grotesque attraction for him . 
There he would sit , looking at her , and warming his hands , and looking at her , until he sometimes quite confounded Mrs Pipchin , Ogress as she was . 
Once she asked him , when they were alone , what he was thinking about . 
'You , said Paul , without the least reserve . 
'And what are you thinking about me ? asked Mrs Pipchin . 
'I'm thinking how old you must be , said Paul . 
'You mustn't say such things as that , young gentleman , returned the dame . 
'Why not ? asked Paul . 
'Because it's not polite , said Mrs Pipchin , snappishly . 
'Not polite ? said Paul . 
'It's not polite , said Paul , innocently , 'to eat all the mutton chops and toast , Wickam says . 
'Wickam , retorted Mrs Pipchin , colouring , 'is a wicked , impudent , bold faced hussy . 
'What's that ? inquired Paul . 
'Never you mind , Sir , retorted Mrs Pipchin . 
'Remember the story of the little boy that was gored to death by a mad bull for asking questions . 
'If the bull was mad , said Paul , 'how did he know that the boy had asked questions ? Nobody can go and whisper secrets to a mad bull . 
I don't believe that story . 
'You don't believe it , Sir ? repeated Mrs Pipchin , amazed . 
'Not if it should happen to have been a tame bull , you little Infidel ? said Mrs Pipchin . 
From that time , Mrs Pipchin appeared to have something of the same odd kind of attraction towards Paul , as Paul had towards her . 
The good old lady might have been not to record it disrespectfully a witch , and Paul and the cat her two familiars , as they all sat by the fire together . 
This , however , never came to pass . 
of her present life , deduced the most dismal reflections from the foregoing premises . 
'What a pretty fellow he is when he's asleep ! said Berry , stopping to look at Paul in bed , one night when she took up Mrs Wickam's supper . 
'Ah ! sighed Mrs Wickam . 
'Why , he's not ugly when he's awake , observed Berry . 
No more was my Uncle's Betsey Jane , said Mrs Wickam . 
My Uncle's child took on just as Master Paul do . 
'Took on ! You don't think he grieves for his Mama , sure ? argued Berry , sitting down on the side of the bed . 
'He can't remember anything about her , you know , Mrs Wickam . 
'No , Ma'am , said Mrs Wickam 'No more did my Uncle's child . 
But my Uncle's child said very strange things sometimes , and looked very strange , and went on very strange , and was very strange altogether . 
My Uncle's child made people's blood run cold , some times , she did ! 'How ? asked Berry . 
'I wouldn't have sat up all night alone with Betsey Jane ! said Mrs Wickam , 'not if you'd have put Wickam into business next morning for himself . 
I couldn't have done it , Miss Berry . 
Miss Berry naturally asked why not ? But Mrs Wickam , agreeably to the usage of some ladies in her condition , pursued her own branch of the subject , without any compunction . 
'Betsey Jane , said Mrs Wickam , 'was as sweet a child as I could wish to see . 
I couldn't wish to see a sweeter . 
Everything that a child could have in the way of illnesses , Betsey Jane had come through . 
The cramps was as common to her , said Mrs Wickam , 'as biles is to yourself , Miss Berry . 
Miss Berry involuntarily wrinkled her nose . 
'Nonsense ! cried Miss Berry somewhat resentful of the idea . 
'You may say nonsense ! I ain't offended , Miss . 
Master Paul's a little restless in his sleep . 
Pat his back , if you please . 
I have seen her sit , often and often , think , think , thinking , like him . 
I have seen her look , often and often , old , old , old , like him . 
I have heard her , many a time , talk just like him . 
I consider that child and Betsey Jane on the same footing entirely , Miss Berry . 
'Is your Uncle's child alive ? asked Berry . 
'Yes , Miss , she is alive , returned Mrs Wickam with an air of triumph , for it was evident . 
Miss Berry expected the reverse 'and is married to a silver chaser . 
Oh yes , Miss , SHE is alive , said Mrs Wickam , laying strong stress on her nominative case . 
It being clear that somebody was dead , Mrs Pipchin's niece inquired who it was . 
'I wouldn't wish to make you uneasy , returned Mrs Wickam , pursuing her supper . 
This was the surest way of being asked again . 
'Remember my words , Miss Berry , said Mrs Wickam , 'and be thankful that Master Paul is not too fond of you . 
She was out of her own bed at the first sound of his voice and bending over his pillow immediately , sang him to sleep again . 
Mrs Wickam shaking her head , and letting fall several tears , pointed out the little group to Berry , and turned her eyes up to the ceiling . 
'He's asleep now , my dear , said Mrs Wickam after a pause , 'you'd better go to bed again . 
Don't you feel cold ? 'No , nurse , said Florence , laughing . 
'Good night , Miss ! returned Wickam softly . 
'Good night ! Your aunt is an old lady , Miss Berry , and it's what you must have looked for , often . 
'Go away , if you please , he would say to any child who came to bear him company . 
Thank you , but I don't want you . 
Some small voice , near his ear , would ask him how he was , perhaps . 
'I am very well , I thank you , he would answer . 
'But you had better go and play , if you please . 
Then he would turn his head , and watch the child away , and say to Florence , 'We don't want any others , do we ? Kiss me , Floy . 
'Weeks off ? asked Paul . 
Many weeks' journey , night and day . 
'If you were in India , Floy , said Paul , after being silent for a minute , 'I should what is it that Mama did ? I forget . 
'Loved me ! answered Florence . 
Don't I love you now , Floy ? What is it ? Died . 
in you were in India , I should die , Floy . 
She hurriedly put her work aside , and laid her head down on his pillow , caressing him . 
And so would she , she said , if he were there . 
He would be better soon . 
'Oh ! I am a great deal better now ! he answered . 
Awaking suddenly , he listened , started up , and sat listening . 
Florence asked him what he thought he heard . 
'I want to know what it says , he answered , looking steadily in her face . 
'The sea' Floy , what is it that it keeps on saying ? She told him that it was only the noise of the rolling waves . 
'Yes , yes , he said . 
'But I know that they are always saying something . 
What place is over there ? He rose up , looking eagerly at the horizon . 
by which they had come home . 
But the sentiment of all this was as boyish and innocent as could be . 
Florence was very pretty , and it is pleasant to admire a pretty face . 
Florence was defenceless and weak , and it was a proud thought that he had been able to render her any protection and assistance . 
Florence was the most grateful little creature in the world , and it was delightful to see her bright gratitude beaming in her face . 
Florence was neglected and coldly looked upon , and his breast was full of youthful interest for the slighted child in her dull , stately home . 
was so well used to this , knowing the story of their acquaintance , that she took no heed of it at all . 
In this way , Walter , so far from forgetting or losing sight of his acquaintance with Florence , only remembered it better and better . 
They set off Florence very much , to his fancy but not himself . 
in spite of Mr Dombey's teeth , cravat , and watch chain , and borne her away to the blue shores of somewhere or other , triumphantly . 
'Uncle Sol , said Walter , 'I don't think you're well . 
You haven't eaten any breakfast . 
I shall bring a doctor to you , if you go on like this . 
'He can't give me what I want , my boy , said Uncle Sol . 
'At least he is in good practice if he can and then he wouldn't . 
'What is it , Uncle ? Customers ? 'Ay , returned Solomon , with a sigh . 
, who was staring at a ship's telescope with all his might and main . 
Come in and buy it ! The old gentleman , however , having satiated his curiosity , walked calmly away . 
'There he goes ! said Walter . 
'That's the way with 'em all . 
But , Uncle I say , Uncle Sol' for the old man was meditating and had not responded to his first appeal . 
Don't be out of spirits , Uncle . 
When orders do come , they'll come in such a crowd , you won't be able to execute 'em . 
'I shall be past executing 'em , whenever they come , my boy , returned Solomon Gills . 
'They'll never come to this shop again , till I am out of t . 
'I say , Uncle ! You musn't really , you know ! urged Walter . 
'Don't ! Old Sol endeavoured to assume a cheery look , and smiled across the little table at him as pleasantly as he could . 
'Be open with me , Uncle , if there is , and tell me all about it . 
'No , no , no , returned Old Sol . 
'More than usual ? No , no . 
What should there be the matter more than usual ? Walter answered with an incredulous shake of his head . 
Old Sol opened his eyes involuntarily . 
'I am a little dull at such times , I know , observed Solomon , meekly rubbing his hands . 
'I know that , Uncle Sol , returned Walter . 
'Lord bless you , I know that . 
'Yes , yes , you do , returned the Instrument maker . 
'Well then , what's the matter , Uncle Sol ? said Walter , coaxingly . 
'All I can say is , Uncle Sol , that if there is 'But there isn't , said Solomon . 
'Very well , , said Walter . 
'Then I've no more to say and that's lucky , for my time's up for going to business . 
I shall look in by and by when I'm out , to see how you get on , Uncle . 
'Well , Uncle Sol ! said Walter . 
The old man was sitting ruefully on the opposite side of the table , with his spectacles over his eyes , for a wonder , instead of on his forehead . 
'How are you now ? Solomon shook his head , and waved one hand towards the broker , as introducing him . 
'Is there anything the matter ? asked Walter , with a catching in his breath . 
There's nothing the matter , said Mr Brogley . 
'Don't let it put you out of the way . 
Walter looked from the broker to his Uncle in mute amazement . 
'The fact is , said Mr Brogley , 'there's a little payment on a bond debt three hundred and seventy odd , overdue and I'm in possession . 
'In possession ! cried Walter , looking round at the shop . 
'Ah ! said Mr Brogley , in confidential assent , and nodding his head as if he would urge the advisability of their all being comfortable together . 
Don't let it put you out of the way . 
I come myself , because of keeping it quiet and sociable . 
'Uncle Sol ! faltered Walter . 
'Wally , my boy , returned his uncle . 
Such a calamity never happened to me before . 
I'm an old man to begin . 
, he covered his face with his hand , and sobbed aloud , and his tears fell down upon his coffee coloured waistcoat . 
'Uncle Sol ! Pray ! oh don't ! exclaimed Walter , who really felt a thrill of terror in seeing the old man weep . 
'For God's sake don't do that . 
Mr Brogley , what shall I do ? 'I should recommend you looking up a friend or so , said Mr Brogley , 'and talking it over . 
'To be sure ! cried Walter , catching at anything . 
Captain Cuttle's the man , Uncle . 
Wait till I run to Captain Cuttle . 
Keep your eye upon my Uncle , will you , Mr Brogley , and make him as comfortable as you can while I am gone ? Don't despair , Uncle Sol . 
Everything seemed altered as he ran along the streets . 
Houses and shops were different from what they used to be , and bore Mr Brogley's warrant on their fronts in large characters . 
The broker seemed to have got hold of the very churches for their spires rose into the sky with an unwonted air . 
Even the sky itself was changed , and had an execution in it plainly . 
The gradual change from land to water , on the approach to Captain Cuttle's lodgings , was curious . 
These were succeeded by anchor and chain cable forges , where sledgehammers were dinging upon iron all day long . 
Then came rows of houses , with little vane surmounted masts uprearing themselves from among the scarlet beans . 
Then , unaccountable patches of dirty water , hardly to be descried , for the ships that covered them . 
Then , the air was perfumed with chips and all other trades were swallowed up in mast , oar , and block making , and boatbuilding . 
Then , the ground grew marshy and unsettled . 
Then , there was nothing to be smelt but rum and sugar . 
Then , Captain Cuttle's lodgings at once a first floor and a top storey , in Brig Place were close before you . 
'Wal'r , my lad ! 'said Captain Cuttle . 
'Stand by and knock again . 
Hard ! It's washing day . 
Walter , in his impatience , gave a prodigious thump with the knocker . 
'Hard it is ! said Captain Cuttle , and immediately drew in his head , as if he expected a squall . 
Before she looked at Walter she looked at the knocker , and then , measuring him with her eyes from head to foot , said she wondered he had left any of it . 
'Captain Cuttle's at home , I know , said Walter with a conciliatory smile . 
'Is he ? replied the widow lady . 
'In deed ! 'He has just been speaking to me , said Walter , in breathless explanation . 
'Has he ? replied the widow lady . 
Mrs MacStinger spoke loud , and listened for any observations that might be offered from the first floor . 
'I'll mention it , said Walter , 'if you'll have the goodness to let me in , Ma'am . 
For he was repelled by a wooden fortification extending across the doorway , and put there to prevent the little MacStingers in their moments of recreation from tumbling down the steps . 
'Never owed her a penny , Wal'r , said Captain Cuttle , in a low voice , and with visible marks of trepidation on his countenance . 
'Done her a world of good turns , and the children too . 
Vixen at times , though . 
Whew ! 'I should go away , Captain Cuttle , said Walter . 
'Dursn't do it , Wal'r , returned the Captain . 
'She'd find me out , wherever I went . 
He unscrewed his hook at dinner time , and screwed a knife into its wooden socket instead , with which he had already begun to peel one of these potatoes for Walter . 
His rooms were very small , and strongly impregnated with tobacco smoke , but snug enough everything being stowed away , as if there were an earthquake regularly every half hour . 
'How's Gills ? inquired the Captain . 
No words can describe the Captain's consternation at this sight Mrs MacStinger faded into nothing before it . 
But when Walter told him what was really the matter , Captain Cuttle , after a moment's reflection , started up into full activity . 
He decided , however , in favour of stratagem . 
'Wal'r , said the Captain , with a timid wink , 'go afore , my lad . 
Sing out , good bye , Captain Cuttle , when you're in the passage , and shut the door . 
Then wait at the corner of the street 'till you see me . 
But not gliding out upon the Captain , as she had expected , she merely made a further allusion to the knocker , and glided in again . 
'Uncle much hove down , Wal'r ? inquired the Captain , as they were walking along . 
If you had seen him this morning , you would never have forgotten it . 
'Walk fast , Wal'r , my lad , returned the Captain , mending his pace 'and walk the same all the days of your life . 
'Gills ! said the Captain , hurrying into the back parlour , and taking him by the hand quite tenderly . 
'Lay your head well to the wind , and we'll fight through it . 
'Come ! What do you make of it ? said Captain Cuttle . 
'Why , Lord help you ! returned the broker 'you don't suppose that property's of any use , do you ? 'Why not ? inquired the Captain . 
'Why ? The amount's three hundred and seventy , odd , replied the broker . 
'Never mind , returned the Captain , though he was evidently dismayed by the figures 'all's fish that comes to your net , I suppose ? 'Certainly , said Mr Brogley . 
'But sprats ain't whales , you know . 
The philosophy of this observation seemed to strike the Captain . 
He ruminated for a minute eyeing the broker , meanwhile , as a deep genius and then called the Instrument maker aside . 
'Gills , said Captain Cuttle , 'what's the bearings of this business ? Who's the creditor ? 'Hush ! returned the old man . 
It's a matter of security for Wally's father an old bond . 
I've paid a good deal of it , Ned , but the times are so bad with me that I can't do more just now . 
I've foreseen it , but I couldn't help it . 
Not a word before Wally , for all the world . 
'You've got some money , haven't you ? whispered the Captain . 
I have been trying to do something with it for Wally , and I'm old fashioned , and behind the time . 
It's here and there , and and , in short , it's as good as nowhere , said the old man , looking in bewilderment about him . 
But Solomon Gills knew better than that . 
'I'm behind the time altogether , my dear Ned , said Sol , in resigned despair , 'a long way . 
It's no use my lagging on so far behind it . 
The stock had better be sold it's worth more than this debt and I had better go and die somewhere , on the balance . 
I haven't any energy left . 
This had better be the end of it . 
Let 'em sell the stock and take him down , said the old man , pointing feebly to the wooden Midshipman , 'and let us both be broken up together . 
'And what d'ye mean to do with Wal'r ? 'said the Captain . 
'There , there ! Sit ye down , Gills , sit ye down , and let me think o' this . 
If I warn't a man on a small annuity , that was large enough till to day , I hadn't need to think of it . 
'Wal'r ! said the Captain at last . 
'Have you , Captain Cuttle ? cried Walter , with great animation . 
'Come this way , my lad , said the Captain . 
Your governor's the man to advance money . 
'Mr Dombey ! faltered Walter . 
'Look at him , he said . 
If they was to sell off these things now , he'd die of it . 
We mustn't leave a stone unturned and there's a stone for you . 
'A stone ! Mr Dombey ! faltered Walter . 
'You run round to the office , first of all , and see if he's there , said Captain Cuttle , clapping him on the back . 
'Quick ! Walter felt he must not dispute the command a glance at his Uncle would have determined him if he had felt otherwise and disappeared to execute it . 
He soon returned , out of breath , to say that Mr Dombey was not there . 
It was Saturday , and he had gone to Brighton . 
'I tell you what , Wal'r ! said the Captain , who seemed to have prepared himself for this contingency in his absence . 
I'll back you , my boy . 
I'll back you , Wal'r . 
We'll go to Brighton by the afternoon's coach . 
It was some time coming to his aid in the present instance , but it befriended him at last . 
'Would you give Joey B. the go by , Ma'am ? Not yet , Ma'am , not yet ! Damme , not yet , Sir . 
Joe is awake , Ma'am . 
Bagstock is alive , Sir . 
J. B. knows a move or two , Ma'am . 
Josh has his weather eye open , Sir . 
You'll find him tough , Ma'am . 
Tough , Sir , tough is Joseph . 
Tough , and de vilish sly ! And very tough indeed Master Bitherstone found him , when he took that young gentleman out for a walk . 
In good time the Major , previously instructed by Mrs Pipchin , spied out Paul and Florence , and bore down upon them there being a stately gentleman in their company . 
Charging with Master Bitherstone into the very heart of the little squadron , it fell out , of course , that Master Bitherstone spoke to his fellow sufferers . 
Here the Major lifted his hat . 
'Damme , Sir , cried the Major with sudden warmth , 'I envy you . 
Then he recollected himself , and added , 'Excuse my freedom . 
Mr Dombey begged he wouldn't mention it . 
I have the honour of addressing Mr Dombey , I believe ? 'I am the present unworthy representative of that name , Major , returned Mr Dombey . 
'By G , Sir ! said the Major , 'it's a great name . 
It is a name , Sir , that a man is proud to recognise . 
There is nothing adulatory in Joseph Bagstock , Sir . 
His Royal Highness the Duke of York observed on more than one occasion , there is no adulation in Joey . 
He is a plain old soldier is Joe . 
He is tough to a fault is Joseph but it's a great name , Sir . 
By the Lord , it's a great name ! said the Major , solemnly . 
'You are good enough to rate it higher than it deserves , perhaps , Major , returned Mr Dombey . 
'No , Sir , said the Major , in a severe tone . 
No , Mr Dombey , let us understand each other . 
That is not the Bagstock vein , Sir . 
You don't know Joseph B. He is a blunt old blade is Josh . 
No flattery in him , Sir . 
Mr Dombey inclined his head , and said he believed him to be in earnest , and that his high opinion was gratifying . 
That boy , Sir , said the Major in a lower tone , 'will live in history . 
That boy , Sir , is not a common production . 
Take care of him , Mr Dombey . 
Mr Dombey seemed to intimate that he would endeavour to do so . 
'Here is a boy here , Sir , pursued the Major , confidentially , and giving him a thrust with his cane . 
'Son of Bitherstone of Bengal . 
Bill Bitherstone formerly of ours . 
That boy's father and myself , Sir , were sworn friends . 
Wherever you went , Sir , you heard of nothing but Bill Bitherstone and Joe Bagstock . 
Am I blind to that boy's defects ? By no means . 
He's a fool , Sir . 
Joe Bagstock never minces matters . 
The son of my old friend Bill Bitherstone , of Bengal , is a born fool , Sir . 
Here the Major laughed till he was almost black . 
'My little friend is destined for a public school , I' presume , Mr Dombey ? said the Major when he had recovered . 
'I am not quite decided , returned Mr Dombey . 
'If he's delicate , Sir , said the Major , 'you are right . 
None but the tough fellows could live through it , Sir , at Sandhurst . 
We put each other to the torture there , Sir . 
We roasted the new fellows at a slow fire , and hung 'em out of a three pair of stairs window , with their heads downwards . 
It certainly looked as if he had hung out a little too long . 
'But it made us what we were , Sir , said the Major , settling his shirt frill . 
'We were iron , Sir , and it forged us . 
Are you remaining here , Mr Dombey ? 'I generally come down once a week , Major , returned that gentleman . 
'I stay at the Bedford . 
'I shall have the honour of calling at the Bedford , Sir , if you'll permit me , said the Major . 
'Joey B. , Sir , is not in general a calling man , but Mr Dombey's is not a common name . 
I am much indebted to my little friend , Sir , for the honour of this introduction . 
In fulfilment of his promise , the Major afterwards called on Mr Dombey and Mr Dombey , having referred to the army list , afterwards called on the Major . 
Then the Major called at Mr Dombey's house in town and came down again , in the same coach as Mr Dombey . 
'My dear Lucretia , returned Mrs Chick , 'what mystery is involved in this remarkable request ? I must insist upon knowing . 
'Since you are resolved to extort a confession from me , Louisa , said Miss Tox instantly , 'I have no alternative but to confide to you that the Major has been particular . 
'Particular ! repeated Mrs Chick . 
'Is he in good circumstances ? inquired Mrs Chick . 
'I have every reason to believe , my dear indeed I may say I know , returned Miss Tox , 'that he is wealthy . 
He is truly military , and full of anecdote . 
I have been informed that his valour , when he was in active service , knew no bounds . 
It is , perhaps , hardly in the nature of woman to receive such attentions as the Major once lavished upon myself without betraying some sense of obligation . 
But that is past long past . 
Between the Major and me there is now a yawning chasm , and I will not feign to give encouragement , Louisa , where I cannot give my heart . 
My affections , said Miss Tox 'but , Louisa , this is madness ! and departed from the room . 
All this Mrs Chick communicated to her brother before dinner and it by no means indisposed Mr Dombey to receive the Major with unwonted cordiality . 
'Your family monopolises Joe's light , Sir , said the Major , when he had saluted Miss Tox . 
Princess's Place is changed into Kamschatka in the winter time . 
There is no ray of sun , Sir , for Joey B. , now . 
'Miss Tox is good enough to take a great deal of interest in Paul , Major , returned Mr Dombey on behalf of that blushing virgin . 
'Damme Sir , said the Major , 'I'm jealous of my little friend . 
The Bagstock breed is degenerating in the forsaken person of old Joe . 
In a word , they were all very well pleased . 
His whole form , but especially his face and head , dilated beyond all former experience and presented to the dark man's view , nothing but a heaving mass of indigo . 
Not while Joe B. can put a spoke in your wheel , Ma'am . 
J. B. 's even with you now , Ma'am . 
He isn't altogether bowled out , yet , Sir , isn't Bagstock . 
She's deep , Sir , deep , but Josh is deeper . 
'Who ? cried Mr Dombey . 
'What does she mean ? What is this ? 'Walter , Papa ! said Florence timidly sensible of having approached the presence with too much familiarity . 
'Who found me when I was lost . 
'Does she mean young Gay , Louisa ? inquired Mr Dombey , knitting his brows . 
'Really , this child's manners have become very boisterous . 
She cannot mean young Gay , I think . 
'Tell the boy to come in now , said Mr Dombey . 
'Now , Gay , what is the matter ? Who sent you down here ? Was there nobody else to come ? 'I beg your pardon , Sir , returned Walter . 
'I have not been sent . 
I have been so bold as to come on my own account , which I hope you'll pardon when I mention the cause . 
'What's that ? said Mr Dombey . 
'Who is that ? I think you have made some mistake in the door , Sir . 
'Oh , I'm very sorry to intrude with anyone , Sir , cried Walter , hastily 'but this is this is Captain Cuttle , Sir . 
Mr Dombey regarded this phenomenon with amazement and indignation , and seemed by his looks to appeal to Mrs Chick and Miss Tox against it . 
Little Paul , who had come in after Florence , backed towards Miss Tox as the Captain waved his book , and stood on the defensive . 
'Now , Gay , said Mr Dombey . 
'Go on , if you please . 
'Ay , ay , observed the Captain , considering it incumbent on him , as a point of good breeding , to support Mr Dombey . 
'Well said ! Go on , Wal'r . 
Captain Cuttle ought to have been withered by the look which Mr Dombey bestowed upon him in acknowledgment of his patronage . 
'No , no , no observed the Captain complacently . 
Walter's eyes filled with tears as he spoke and so did those of Florence . 
Her father saw them glistening , though he appeared to look at Walter only . 
'It is a very large sum , Sir , said Walter . 
'More than three hundred pounds . 
My Uncle is quite beaten down by his misfortune , it lies so heavy on him and is quite unable to do anything for his own relief . 
He doesn't even know yet , that I have come to speak to you . 
You would wish me to say , Sir , added Walter , after a moment's hesitation , 'exactly what it is I want . 
I really don't know , Sir . 
I I hardly like to mention , said Walter , 'such earnings as mine but if you would allow them accumulate payment advance Uncle frugal , honourable , old man . 
Walter trailed off , through these broken sentences , into silence and stood with downcast head , before his employer . 
Annuity of one hundred pound premium also ready to be made over . 
If there is a man chock full of science in the world , it's old Sol Gills . 
'What was this debt contracted for ? asked Mr Dombey , at length . 
'Who is the creditor ? 'He don't know , replied the Captain , putting his hand on Walter's shoulder . 
It came of helping a man that's dead now , and that's cost my friend Gills many a hundred pound already . 
More particulars in private , if agreeable . 
It is an act of dishonesty and presumption , too , said Mr Dombey , sternly 'great presumption for the wealthy could do no more . 
Paul , come here ! The child obeyed and Mr Dombey took him on his knee . 
'If you had money now said Mr Dombey . 
'Look at me ! Paul , whose eyes had wandered to his sister , and to Walter , looked his father in the face . 
'If you had money now , said Mr Dombey 'as much money as young Gay has talked about what would you do ? 'Give it to his old Uncle , returned Paul . 
'Lend it to his old Uncle , eh ? retorted Mr Dombey . 
'Well ! When you are old enough , you know , you will share my money , and we shall use it together . 
'Dombey and Son , interrupted Paul , who had been tutored early in the phrase . 
'Dombey and Son , repeated his father . 
'Girls , said Mr Dombey , 'have nothing to do with Dombey and Son . 
Would you like it ? 'Yes , Papa , yes ! 'Then you shall do it , returned his father . 
'And you see , Paul , he added , dropping his voice , 'how powerful money is , and how anxious people are to get it . 
Mr Dombey then turned to a side table , and wrote a note and sealed it . 
The note being finished , Mr Dombey turned round to his former place , and held it out to Walter . 
'Give that , he said , 'the first thing to morrow morning , to Mr Carker . 
You will consider that this is done for you by Master Paul . 
Walter , in the emotion of holding in his hand the means of releasing his good Uncle from his trouble , would have endeavoured to express something of his gratitude and joy . 
But Mr Dombey stopped him short . 
'You will consider that it is done , he repeated , 'by Master Paul . 
I have explained that to him , and he understands it . 
I wish no more to be said . 
As he motioned towards the door , Walter could only bow his head and retire . 
Miss Tox , seeing that the Captain appeared about to do the same , interposed . 
'My dear Sir , she said , addressing Mr Dombey , at whose munificence both she and Mrs Chick were shedding tears copiously 'I think you have overlooked something . 
Pardon me , Mr Dombey , I think , in the nobility of your character , and its exalted scope , you have omitted a matter of detail . 
'Indeed , Miss Tox ! said Mr Dombey . 
I am obliged to you , Miss Tox it is like your usual discretion . 
Have the goodness to take these things away , Sir ! Captain Cuttle felt he had no alternative but to comply . 
At this touch of warm feeling and cold iron , Mr Dombey shivered all over . 
'Will you never be a Dombey , my dear child ! said Mrs Chick , with pathetic reproachfulness . 
'Dear aunt , said Florence . 
'Don't be angry with me . 
And young Gay Walter what of him ? He was overjoyed to purge the old man's hearth from bailiffs and brokers , and to hurry back to his Uncle with the good tidings . 
But without the least impeachment of his gratitude to Mr Dombey , it must be confessed that Walter was humbled and cast down . 
The Captain viewed the subject in quite a different light . 
That same evening the Major was diffuse at his club , on the subject of his friend Dombey in the City . 
'Damme , Sir , said the Major , 'he's a prince , is my friend Dombey in the City . 
I tell you what , Sir . 
If you had a few more men among you like old Joe Bagstock and my friend Dombey in the City , Sir , you'd do ! CHAPTER . 
Yet , as Paul's rapt interest in the old lady continued unbated , Mrs Wickam would not budge an inch from the position she had taken up . 
'I hope , Miss Berry , Mrs Wickam would observe , 'that you'll come into whatever little property there may be to leave . 
You deserve it , I am sure , for yours is a trying life . 
Though there don't seem much worth coming into you'll excuse my being so open in this dismal den . 
, of balances unsettled , and of a failure , on one occasion within his memory , in the supply of moist sugar at tea time . 
, and lapsed into a state of hopeless spinsterhood . 
'Berry's very fond of you , ain't she ? Paul once asked Mrs Pipchin when they were sitting by the fire with the cat . 
'Yes , said Mrs Pipchin . 
'Why ! returned the disconcerted old lady . 
'How can you ask such things , Sir ! why are you fond of your sister Florence ? 'Because she's very good , said Paul . 
'Well ! retorted Mrs Pipchin , shortly , 'and there's nobody like me , I suppose . 
'Ain't there really though ? asked Paul , leaning forward in his chair , and looking at her very hard . 
'No , said the old lady . 
'I am glad of that , observed Paul , rubbing his hands thoughtfully . 
'That's a very good thing . 
Mrs Pipchin didn't dare to ask him why , lest she should receive some perfectly annihilating answer . 
Mrs Pipchin had kept watch and ward over little Paul and his sister for nearly twelve months . 
They had been home twice , but only for a few days and had been constant in their weekly visits to Mr Dombey at the hotel . 
One Saturday afternoon , at dusk , great consternation was occasioned in the Castle by the unlooked for announcement of Mr Dombey as a visitor to Mrs Pipchin . 
'Mrs Pipchin , said Mr Dombey , 'How do you do ? 'Thank you , Sir , said Mrs Pipchin , 'I am pretty well , considering . 
Mrs Pipchin always used that form of words . 
It meant , considering her virtues , sacrifices , and so forth . 
'I can't expect , Sir , to be very well , said Mrs Pipchin , taking a chair and fetching her breath 'but such health as I have , I am grateful for . 
Mr Dombey inclined his head with the satisfied air of a patron , who felt that this was the sort of thing for which he paid so much a quarter . 
After a moment's silence he went on to say 'Mrs Pipchin , I have taken the liberty of calling , to consult you in reference to my son . 
I have had it in my mind to do so for some time past but have deferred it from time to time , in order that his health might be thoroughly re established . 
You have no misgivings on that subject , Mrs Pipchin ? 'Brighton has proved very beneficial , Sir , returned Mrs Pipchin . 
'I purpose , said Mr Dombey , 'his remaining at Brighton . 
Mrs Pipchin rubbed her hands , and bent her grey eyes on the fire . 
'But , pursued Mr Dombey , stretching out his forefinger , 'but possibly that he should now make a change , and lead a different kind of life here . 
In short , Mrs Pipchin , that is the object of my visit . 
My son is getting on , Mrs Pipchin . 
Really , he is getting on . 
There was something melancholy in the triumphant air with which Mr Dombey said this . 
It showed how long Paul's childish life had been to him , and how his hopes were set upon a later stage of his existence . 
Pity may appear a strange word to connect with anyone so haughty and so cold , and yet he seemed a worthy subject for it at that moment . 
'Dear me , six will be changed to sixteen , before we have time to look about us . 
'Ten years , croaked the unsympathetic Pipchin , with a frosty glistening of her hard grey eye , and a dreary shaking of her bent head , 'is a long time . 
Now , Mrs Pipchin , instead of being behind his peers , my son ought to be before them far before them . 
There is an eminence ready for him to mount upon . 
There is nothing of chance or doubt in the course before my son . 
His way in life was clear and prepared , and marked out before he existed . 
The education of such a young gentleman must not be delayed . 
It must not be left imperfect . 
It must be very steadily and seriously undertaken , Mrs Pipchin . 
'Well , Sir , said Mrs Pipchin , 'I can say nothing to the contrary . 
'I was quite sure , Mrs Pipchin , returned Mr Dombey , approvingly , 'that a person of your good sense could not , and would not . 
'It never was thought of in my time , and it has no business to be thought of now . 
My opinion is keep 'em at it . 
I have been thinking of Doctor Blimber's , Mrs Pipchin . 
'My neighbour , Sir ? said Mrs Pipchin . 
'I believe the Doctor's is an excellent establishment . 
I've heard that it's very strictly conducted , and there is nothing but learning going on from morning to night . 
'And it's very expensive , added Mr Dombey . 
'And it's very expensive , Sir , returned Mrs Pipchin , catching at the fact , as if in omitting that , she had omitted one of its leading merits . 
He mentioned several instances of boys in Greek at about the same age . 
If I have any little uneasiness in my own mind , Mrs Pipchin , on the subject of this change , it is not on that head . 
My son not having known a mother has gradually concentrated much too much of his childish affection on his sister . 
Whether their separation Mr Dombey said no more , but sat silent . 
'Hoity toity ! exclaimed Mrs Pipchin , shaking out her black bombazeen skirts , and plucking up all the ogress within her . 
'If she don't like it , Mr Dombey , she must be taught to lump it . 
that that was the way she reasoned with 'em . 
, he formed an equally good opinion of Mrs Pipchin's disinterestedness . 
This would wean him by degrees , Mr Dombey said possibly with a recollection of his not having been weaned by degrees on a former occasion . 
Whenever a young gentleman was taken in hand by Doctor Blimber , he might consider himself sure of a pretty tight squeeze . 
In fact , Doctor Blimber's establishment was a great hot house , in which there was a forcing apparatus incessantly at work . 
All the boys blew before their time . 
Mental green peas were produced at Christmas , and intellectual asparagus all the year round . 
were common at untimely seasons , and from mere sprouts of bushes , under Doctor Blimber's cultivation . 
Every description of Greek and Latin vegetable was got off the driest twigs of boys , under the frostiest circumstances . 
Nature was of no consequence at all . 
No matter what a young gentleman was intended to bear , Doctor Blimber made him bear to pattern , somehow or other . 
This was all very pleasant and ingenious , but the system of forcing was attended with its usual disadvantages . 
There was not the right taste about the premature productions , and they didn't keep well . 
, suddenly left off blowing one day , and remained in the establishment a mere stalk . 
And people did say that the Doctor had rather overdone it with young Toots , and that when he began to have whiskers he left off having brains . 
The Doctor was a portly gentleman in a suit of black , with strings at his knees , and stockings below them . 
He had a bald head , highly polished a deep voice and a chin so very double , that it was a wonder how he ever managed to shave into the creases . 
The Doctor's was a mighty fine house , fronting the sea . 
Not a joyful style of house within , but quite the contrary . 
Sad coloured curtains , whose proportions were spare and lean , hid themselves despondently behind the windows . 
Miss Blimber , too , although a slim and graceful maid , did no soft violence to the gravity of the house . 
There was no light nonsense about Miss Blimber . 
She kept her hair short and crisp , and wore spectacles . 
She was dry and sandy with working in the graves of deceased languages . 
None of your live languages for Miss Blimber . 
They must be dead stone dead and then Miss Blimber dug them up like a Ghoul . 
Mrs Blimber , her Mama , was not learned herself , but she pretended to be , and that did quite as well . 
She said at evening parties , that if she could have known Cicero , she thought she could have died contented . 
It was so classical , she said . 
The young gentlemen were prematurely full of carking anxieties . 
They knew no rest from the pursuit of stony hearted verbs , savage noun substantives , inflexible syntactic passages , and ghosts of exercises that appeared to them in their dreams . 
Under the forcing system , a young gentleman usually took leave of his spirits in three weeks . 
He had all the cares of the world on his head in three months . 
Upon the Doctor's door steps one day , Paul stood with a fluttering heart , and with his small right hand in his father's . 
His other hand was locked in that of Florence . 
She was out of breath for Mr Dombey , full of great thoughts , had walked fast and she croaked hoarsely as she waited for the opening of the door . 
'Now , Paul , said Mr Dombey , exultingly . 
'This is the way indeed to be Dombey and Son , and have money . 
You are almost a man already . 
'Almost , returned the child . 
Even his childish agitation could not master the sly and quaint yet touching look , with which he accompanied the reply . 
It brought a vague expression of dissatisfaction into Mr Dombey's face but the door being opened , it was quickly gone 'Doctor Blimber is at home , I believe ? said Mr Dombey . 
The man said yes and as they passed in , looked at Paul as if he were a little mouse , and the house were a trap . 
He was a weak eyed young man , with the first faint streaks or early dawn of a grin on his countenance . 
It was mere imbecility but Mrs Pipchin took it into her head that it was impudence , and made a snap at him directly . 
'How dare you laugh behind the gentleman's back ? said Mrs Pipchin . 
'A pack of idle dogs ! said Mrs Pipchin , 'only fit to be turnspits . 
'You're laughing again , Sir , said Mrs Pipchin , when it came to her turn , bringing up the rear , to pass him in the hall . 
'I ain't , returned the young man , grievously oppressed . 
'I never see such a thing as this ! 'What is the matter , Mrs Pipchin ? said Mr Dombey , looking round . 
'Ha ! said the Doctor , leaning back in his chair with his hand in his breast . 
'Now I see my little friend . 
'Ha ! said Doctor Blimber . 
'Shall we make a man of him ? 'Do you hear , Paul ? added Mr Dombey Paul being silent . 
'Shall we make a man of him ? repeated the Doctor . 
'I had rather be a child , replied Paul . 
'Indeed ! said the Doctor . 
But his other hand strayed a little way the while , a little farther farther from him yet until it lighted on the neck of Florence . 
'This is why , it seemed to say , and then the steady look was broken up and gone the working lip was loosened and the tears came streaming forth . 
'Mrs Pipchin , said his father , in a querulous manner , 'I am really very sorry to see this . 
'Come away from him , do , Miss Dombey , quoth the matron . 
'Never mind , said the Doctor , blandly nodding his head , to keep Mrs Pipchin back . 
'Never mind we shall substitute new cares and new impressions , Mr Dombey , very shortly . 
You would still wish my little friend to acquire 'Everything , if you please , Doctor , returned Mr Dombey , firmly . 
Ha ! We shall impart a great variety of information to our little friend , and bring him quickly forward , I daresay . 
Doctor Blimber inclined his head , in gentle tolerance of such insignificant poaching as Mrs Pipchin's , and said he was glad to hear it . 
It was much more satisfactory , he observed , rubbing his hands , to begin at the foundation . 
And again he leered at Paul , as if he would have liked to tackle him with the Greek alphabet , on the spot . 
'Permit me , said the Doctor , 'one moment . 
My daughter Cornelia , Mr Dombey . 
What a world of honey have we here . 
It may appear remarkable , Mr Dombey , in one who is a wife the wife of such a husband 'Hush , hush , said Doctor Blimber . 
'Mr Dombey will forgive the partiality of a wife , said Mrs Blimber , with an engaging smile . 
Mr Dombey answered 'Not at all applying those words , it is to be presumed , to the partiality , and not to the forgiveness . 
'And it may seem remarkable in one who is a mother also , resumed Mrs Blimber . 
'And such a mother , observed Mr Dombey , bowing with some confused idea of being complimentary to Cornelia . 
Cornelia looked at Mr Dombey through her spectacles , as if she would have liked to crack a few quotations with him from the authority in question . 
But this design , if she entertained it , was frustrated by a knock at the room door . 
'Who is that ? said the Doctor . 
'Oh ! Come in , Toots come in . 
'Quite a coincidence ! said Doctor Blimber . 
'Here we have the beginning and the end . 
Alpha and Omega Our head boy , Mr Dombey . 
The Doctor might have called him their head and shoulders boy , for he was at least that much taller than any of the rest . 
He blushed very much at finding himself among strangers , and chuckled aloud . 
'An addition to our little Portico , Toots , said the Doctor 'Mr Dombey's son . 
My dear , I believe Mr Dombey has not seen the dormitories . 
'If Mr Dombey will walk upstairs , said Mrs Blimber , 'I shall be more than proud to show him the dominions of the drowsy god . 
There was something very awful in this manner of reading . 
It was such a determined , unimpassioned , inflexible , cold blooded way of going to work . 
Toots , too , had no business to be outside the door , ostentatiously examining the wheels in his watch , and counting his half crowns . 
Mr Dombey and his conductress were soon heard coming downstairs again , talking all the way and presently they re entered the Doctor's study . 
'I hope , Mr Dombey , said the Doctor , laying down his book , 'that the arrangements meet your approval . 
'They are excellent , Sir , said Mr Dombey . 
'Very fair , indeed , said Mrs Pipchin , in a low voice never disposed to give too much encouragement . 
'Mrs Pipchin , said Mr Dombey , wheeling round , 'will , with your permission , Doctor and Mrs Blimber , visit Paul now and then . 
'Whenever Mrs Pipchin pleases , observed the Doctor . 
'Always happy to see her , said Mrs Blimber . 
'I think , said Mr Dombey , 'I have given all the trouble I need , and may take my leave . 
Paul , my child , he went close to him , as he sat upon the table . 
The limp and careless little hand that Mr Dombey took in his , was singularly out of keeping with the wistful face . 
But he had no part in its sorrowful expression . 
It was not addressed to him . 
To Florence all to Florence . 
He bent down , over his boy , and kissed him . 
'I shall see you soon , Paul . 
You are free on Saturdays and Sundays , you know . 
'Yes , Papa , returned Paul looking at his sister . 
'And you'll try and learn a great deal here , and be a clever man , said Mr Dombey 'won't you ? 'I'll try , returned the child , wearily . 
'And you'll soon be grown up now ! said Mr Dombey . 
'Oh ! very soon ! replied the child . 
Once more the old , old look passed rapidly across his features like a strange light . 
It fell on Mrs Pipchin , and extinguished itself in her black dress . 
That excellent ogress stepped forward to take leave and to bear off Florence , which she had long been thirsting to do . 
The move on her part roused Mr Dombey , whose eyes were fixed on Paul . 
It made his childish bosom heave and swell when it was gone and sent the globes , the books , blind Homer and Minerva , swimming round the room . 
He sat , with folded hands , upon his pedestal , silently listening . 
Paul's Education After the lapse of some minutes , which appeared an immense time to little Paul Dombey on the table , Doctor Blimber came back . 
The Doctor's walk was stately , and calculated to impress the juvenile mind with solemn feelings . 
'Cornelia , said the Doctor , 'Dombey will be your charge at first . 
Bring him on , Cornelia , bring him on . 
Miss Blimber received her young ward from the Doctor's hands and Paul , feeling that the spectacles were surveying him , cast down his eyes . 
'How old are you , Dombey ? said Miss Blimber . 
'Six , answered Paul , wondering , as he stole a glance at the young lady , why her hair didn't grow long like Florence's , and why she was like a boy . 
'How much do you know of your Latin Grammar , Dombey ? said Miss Blimber . 
'None of it , answered Paul . 
Feeling that the answer was a shock to Miss Blimber's sensibility , he looked up at the three faces that were looking down at him , and said 'I have'n't been well . 
I have been a weak child . 
I couldn't learn a Latin Grammar when I was out , every day , with old Glubb . 
I wish you'd tell old Glubb to come and see me , if you please . 
'What a dreadfully low name' said Mrs Blimber . 
'Unclassical to a degree ! Who is the monster , child ? 'What monster ? inquired Paul . 
'Glubb , said Mrs Blimber , with a great disrelish . 
'He's no more a monster than you are , returned Paul . 
'What ! cried the Doctor , in a terrible voice . 
'Ay , ay , ay ? Aha ! What's that ? Paul was dreadfully frightened but still he made a stand for the absent Glubb , though he did it trembling . 
'He's a very nice old man , Ma'am , he said . 
'He used to draw my couch . 
'Ha ! said the Doctor , shaking his head 'this is bad , but study will do much . 
'Take him round the house , Cornelia , said the Doctor , 'and familiarise him with his new sphere . 
Go with that young lady , Dombey . 
Dombey obeyed giving his hand to the abstruse Cornelia , and looking at her sideways , with timid curiosity , as they went away together . 
Here , there were eight young gentlemen in various stages of mental prostration , all very hard at work , and very grave indeed . 
Mr Feeder , B. A. , who sat at another little desk , had his Virgil stop on , and was slowly grinding that tune to four young gentlemen . 
The appearance of a new boy did not create the sensation that might have been expected . 
Paul having been already introduced to Toots , that pupil merely chuckled and breathed hard , as his custom was , and pursued the occupation in which he was engaged . 
Toots , Esquire , Brighton , Sussex , and to preserve them in his desk with great care . 
Instead of receiving warning , however , or being instantly taken into custody , the young man left off unchecked , after having made a dreadful noise . 
Then Cornelia Blimber said to Dombey that dinner would be ready in a quarter of an hour , and perhaps he had better go into the schoolroom among his 'friends . 
His friends were all dispersed about the room except the stony friend , who remained immoveable . 
Mr Feeder was stretching himself in his grey gown , as if , regardless of expense , he were resolved to pull the sleeves off . 
'Heigh ho hum ! cried Mr Feeder , shaking himself like a cart horse . 
Young Toots who was ready beforehand , and had therefore nothing to do , and had leisure to bestow upon Paul , said , with heavy good nature 'Sit down , Dombey . 
'Thank you , Sir , said Paul . 
His endeavouring to hoist himself on to a very high window seat , and his slipping down again , appeared to prepare Toots's mind for the reception of a discovery . 
'You're a very small chap said Mr Toots . 
'Yes , Sir , I'm small , returned Paul . 
For Toots had lifted him into the seat , and done it kindly too . 
'Who's your tailor ? inquired Toots , after looking at him for some moments . 
'It's a woman that has made my clothes as yet , said Paul . 
'My tailor's Burgess and Co . 
Paul had wit enough to shake his head , as if he would have said it was easy to see that and indeed he thought so . 
'Your father's regularly rich , ain't he ? inquired Mr Toots . 
'Yes , Sir , said Paul . 
'And which ? demanded Toots . 
'And Son , Sir , replied Paul . 
And indeed he purposed nothing less than writing himself a private and confidential letter from Dombey and Son immediately . 
And yet he had a sense of injury upon him , too , had Bitherstone . 
'You sleep in my room , don't you ? asked a solemn young gentleman , whose shirt collar curled up the lobes of his ears . 
'Master Briggs ? inquired Paul . 
'Tozer , said the young gentleman . 
Paul answered yes and Tozer pointing out the stony pupil , said that was Briggs . 
Paul had already felt certain that it must be either Briggs or Tozer , though he didn't know why . 
'Is yours a strong constitution ? inquired Tozer . 
Paul said he thought not . 
Tozer replied that he thought not also , judging from Paul's looks , and that it was a pity , for it need be . 
Doctor Blimber was already in his place in the dining room , at the top of the table , with Miss Blimber and Mrs Blimber on either side of him . 
Mr Feeder in a black coat was at the bottom . 
Grace having been said by the Doctor , dinner began . 
There was some nice soup also roast meat , boiled meat , vegetables , pie , and cheese . 
Every young gentleman had a massive silver fork , and a napkin and all the arrangements were stately and handsome . 
In particular , there was a butler in a blue coat and bright buttons , who gave quite a winey flavour to the table beer he poured it out so superbly . 
Nobody spoke , unless spoken to , except Doctor Blimber , Mrs Blimber , and Miss Blimber , who conversed occasionally . 
Toots appeared to be the only exception to this rule . 
He sat next Mr Feeder on Paul's side of the table , and frequently looked behind and before the intervening boys to catch a glimpse of Paul . 
Only once during dinner was there any conversation that included the young gentlemen . 
'Johnson , said Mr Feeder , in a low reproachful voice , 'take some water . 
'I beg your pardon , Sir , said Mr Feeder , reddening . 
'I beg your pardon , Doctor Blimber . 
'Of various sorts of fowl , five thousand dishes . 
'Or try a crust of bread , said Mr Feeder . 
'Woodcocks 'Ow , ow , ow ! 'The sounds of the fish called scari 'You'll burst some vessel in your head , said Mr Feeder . 
'You had better let it come . 
'A Domitian 'And you're blue , you know , said Mr Feeder . 
Then there was a profound silence . 
'Gentlemen , said Doctor Blimber , 'rise for Grace ! Cornelia , lift Dombey down' nothing of whom but his scalp was accordingly seen above the tablecloth . 
'Johnson will repeat to me tomorrow morning before breakfast , without book , and from the Greek Testament , the first chapter of the Epistle of Saint Paul to the Ephesians . 
We will resume our studies , Mr Feeder , in half an hour . 
The young gentlemen bowed and withdrew . 
But nothing happened so vulgar as play . 
Punctually at the appointed time , the gong was sounded , and the studies , under the joint auspices of Doctor Blimber and Mr Feeder , were resumed . 
As the Olympic game of lounging up and down had been cut shorter than usual that day , on Johnson's account , they all went out for a walk before tea . 
partook of this dissipation in the enjoyment of which he looked over the cliff two or three times darkly . 
Doctor Blimber accompanied them and Paul had the honour of being taken in tow by the Doctor himself a distinguished state of things , in which he looked very little and feeble . 
In the meantime Mr Feeder withdrew to his own room and Paul sat in a corner wondering whether Florence was thinking of him , and what they were all about at Mrs Pipchin's . 
Paul said 'Yes , Sir . 
'So am I , said Toots . 
When the Doctor had said these words , 'Gentlemen , we will resume our studies at seven tomorrow , the pupils bowed again , and went to bed . 
After uttering those prophetic words , he undressed himself moodily , and got into bed . 
The young woman seemed surprised at his appearance , and asked him where his mother was . 
Miss Blimber presented exactly the appearance she had presented yesterday , except that she wore a shawl . 
Her little light curls were as crisp as ever , and she had already her spectacles on , which made Paul wonder whether she went to bed in them . 
She had a cool little sitting room of her own up there , with some books in it , and no fire But Miss Blimber was never cold , and never sleepy . 
Now , Dombey , said Miss Blimber , 'I am going out for a constitutional . 
Paul wondered what that was , and why she didn't send the footman out to get it in such unfavourable weather . 
But he made no observation on the subject his attention being devoted to a little pile of new books , on which Miss Blimber appeared to have been recently engaged . 
'These are yours , Dombey , said Miss Blimber . 
'All of 'em , Ma'am ? said Paul . 
'Yes , returned Miss Blimber 'and Mr Feeder will look you out some more very soon , if you are as studious as I expect you will be , Dombey . 
'Thank you , Ma'am , said Paul . 
Don't lose time , Dombey , for you have none to spare , but take them downstairs , and begin directly . 
'Yes , Ma'am , answered Paul . 
At that meal , for which he had no appetite , everything was quite as solemn and genteel as at the others and when it was finished , he followed Miss Blimber upstairs . 
'Now , Dombey , said Miss Blimber . 
'Oh , Dombey , Dombey ! said Miss Blimber , 'this is very shocking . 
'If you please , said Paul , 'I think if I might sometimes talk a little to old Glubb , I should be able to do better . 
'Nonsense , Dombey , said Miss Blimber . 
'I couldn't hear of it . 
This is not the place for Glubbs of any kind . 
'So Papa says , returned Paul 'but I told you I have been a weak child . 
'Who is Wickam ? asked Miss Blimber . 
'She has been my nurse , Paul answered . 
'I must beg you not to mention Wickam to me , then , said Miss Blimber . 
'You asked me who she was , said Paul . 
'Very well , returned Miss Blimber 'but this is all very different indeed from anything of that sort , Dombey , and I couldn't think of permitting it . 
As to having been weak , you must begin to be strong . 
And now take away the top book , if you please , Dombey , and return when you are master of the theme . 
It was hard work , resuming his studies , soon after dinner and he felt giddy and confused and drowsy and dull . 
But all the other young gentlemen had similar sensations , and were obliged to resume their studies too , if there were any comfort in that . 
The studies went round like a mighty wheel , and the young gentlemen were always stretched upon it . 
After tea there were exercises again , and preparations for next day by candlelight . 
And in due course there was bed where , but for that resumption of the studies which took place in dreams , were rest and sweet forgetfulness . 
Those Saturdays were Sabbaths for at least two little Christians among all the Jews , and did the holy Sabbath work of strengthening and knitting up a brother's and a sister's love . 
Not even Sunday nights the heavy Sunday nights , whose shadow darkened the first waking burst of light on Sunday mornings could mar those precious Saturdays . 
That was all he thought of . 
So , on Sunday nights , when the Doctor's dark door stood agape to swallow him up for another week , the time was come for taking leave of Florence no one else . 
Mrs Wickam had been drafted home to the house in town , and Miss Nipper , now a smart young woman , had come down . 
Miss Nipper threw away the scabbard the first morning she arose in Mrs Pipchin's house . 
She asked and gave no quarter . 
'See here , Susan , she said . 
'These are the names of the little books that Paul brings home to do those long exercises with , when he is so tired . 
I copied them last night while he was writing . 
'Don't show 'em to me , Miss Floy , if you please , returned Nipper , 'I'd as soon see Mrs Pipchin . 
'I want you to buy them for me , Susan , if you will , tomorrow morning . 
I have money enough , said Florence . 
'But you can buy me the books , Susan and you will , when you know why I want them . 
'Paul has a great deal too much to do , Susan , said Florence , 'I am sure of it . 
'And well you may be , Miss , returned her maid , 'and make your mind quite easy that the willing dear is worked and worked away . 
If those is Latin legs , exclaimed Miss Nipper , with strong feeling in allusion to Paul's 'give me English ones . 
'I am afraid he feels lonely and lost at Doctor Blimber's , Susan , pursued Florence , turning away her face . 
'Ah , said Miss Nipper , with great sharpness , 'Oh , them Blimbers 'Don't blame anyone , said Florence . 
After this speech , Miss Nipper , who was perfectly serious , wiped her eyes . 
'I think I could perhaps give Paul some help , Susan , if I had these books , said Florence , 'and make the coming week a little easier to him . 
At least I want to try . 
Susan put the purse in her pocket without reply , and trotted out at once upon her errand . 
It was not that Miss Blimber meant to be too hard upon him , or that Doctor Blimber meant to bear too heavily on the young gentlemen in general . 
Thus in the case of Paul . 
When Doctor Blimber said he made great progress and was naturally clever , Mr Dombey was more bent than ever on his being forced and crammed . 
In the case of Briggs , when Doctor Blimber reported that he did not make great progress yet , and was not naturally clever , Briggs senior was inexorable in the same purpose . 
Such spirits as he had in the outset , Paul soon lost of course . 
The only difference was , that he kept his character to himself . 
He grew more thoughtful and reserved , every day and had no such curiosity in any living member of the Doctor's household , as he had had in Mrs Pipchin . 
The solitary child lived on , surrounded by this arabesque work of his musing fancy , and no one understood him . 
Mrs Blimber thought him 'odd , and sometimes the servants said among themselves that little Dombey 'moped but that was all . 
Unless young Toots had some idea on the subject , to the expression of which he was wholly unequal . 
, must be spoken to a little before they will explain themselves and Toots had long left off asking any questions of his own mind . 
But it left a little figure visible upon a lonely shore , and Toots was always staring at it . 
'How are you ? he would say to Paul , fifty times a day . 
'Quite well , Sir , thank you , Paul would answer . 
'Shake hands , would be Toots's next advance . 
Which Paul , of course , would immediately do . 
Mr Toots generally said again , after a long interval of staring and hard breathing , 'How are you ? To which Paul again replied , 'Quite well , Sir , thank you . 
One evening Mr Toots was sitting at his desk , oppressed by correspondence , when a great purpose seemed to flash upon him . 
He laid down his pen , and went off to seek Paul , whom he found at last , after a long search , looking through the window of his little bedroom . 
'Do you , though ? said Toots , appearing to consider that fact in itself surprising . 
'If you had to die , said Paul , looking up into his face Mr Toots started , and seemed much disturbed . 
'Not blowing , at least , said Paul , 'but sounding in the air like the sea sounds in the shells . 
It was a beautiful night . 
When I had listened to the water for a long time , I got up and looked out . 
There was a boat over there , in the full light of the moon a boat with a sail . 
The child looked at him so steadfastly , and spoke so earnestly , that Mr Toots , feeling himself called upon to say something about this boat , said , 'Smugglers . 
But with an impartial remembrance of there being two sides to every question , he added , 'or Preventive . 
'A boat with a sail , repeated Paul , 'in the full light of the moon . 
The sail like an arm , all silver . 
It went away into the distance , and what do you think it seemed to do as it moved with the waves ? 'Pitch , said Mr Toots . 
She sees me she sees me ! Good night , dear , good night , good night . 
The evenings being longer now , Paul stole up to his window every evening to look out for Florence . 
She always passed and repassed at a certain time , until she saw him and their mutual recognition was a gleam of sunshine in Paul's daily life . 
Often after dark , one other figure walked alone before the Doctor's house . 
He rarely joined them on the Saturdays now . 
He could not bear it . 
He would rather come unrecognised , and look up at the windows where his son was qualifying for a man and wait , and watch , and plan , and hope . 
The other commodities were addressed to the general public but they were never offered by the vendors to Mr Dombey . 
When he appeared , the dealers in those wares fell off respectfully . 
The clerks within were not a whit behind hand in their demonstrations of respect . 
A solemn hush prevailed , as Mr Dombey passed through the outer office . 
The wit of the Counting House became in a moment as mute as the row of leathern fire buckets hanging up behind him . 
Then Perch took the newspaper , and gave it a turn or two in his hands before the fire , and laid it , deferentially , at Mr Dombey's elbow . 
You are the Breath of my Soul . 
Mr Carker in his own office was the first step Mr Morfin , in his own office , was the second . 
Each of these gentlemen occupied a little chamber like a bath room , opening from the passage outside Mr Dombey's door . 
Mr Carker , as Grand Vizier , inhabited the room that was nearest to the Sultan . 
Mr Morfin , as an officer of inferior state , inhabited the room that was nearest to the clerks . 
His dark hair was just touched here and there with specks of gray , as though the tread of Time had splashed it and his whiskers were already white . 
Mr Carker was a gentleman thirty eight or forty years old , of a florid complexion , and with two unbroken rows of glistening teeth , whose regularity and whiteness were quite distressing . 
, that there was something in it like the snarl of a cat . 
He affected a stiff white cravat , after the example of his principal , and was always closely buttoned up and tightly dressed . 
His manner towards Mr Dombey was deeply conceived and perfectly expressed . 
He was familiar with him , in the very extremity of his sense of the distance between them . 
I frankly tell you , Sir , I give it up altogether . 
I feel that I could not satisfy my own mind and Heaven knows , Mr Dombey , you can afford to dispense with the endeavour . 
This was Carker the Manager . 
Mr Carker the Junior , Walter's friend , was his brother two or three years older than he , but widely removed in station . 
The younger brother's post was on the top of the official ladder the elder brother's at the bottom . 
The elder brother never gained a stave , or raised his foot to mount one . 
Young men passed above his head , and rose and rose but he was always at the bottom . 
He was quite resigned to occupy that low condition never complained of it and certainly never hoped to escape from it . 
'How do you do this morning ? said Mr Carker the Manager , entering Mr Dombey's room soon after his arrival one day with a bundle of papers in his hand . 
'How do you do , Carker ? said Mr Dombey . 
'Coolish ! observed Carker , stirring the fire . 
'Rather , said Mr Dombey . 
'Any news of the young gentleman who is so important to us all ? asked Carker , with his whole regiment of teeth on parade . 
'Yes not direct news I hear he's very well , said Mr Dombey . 
Who had come from Brighton over night . 
But no one knew It . 
'Very well , and becoming a great scholar , no doubt ? observed the Manager . 
'I hope so , returned Mr Dombey . 
'Egad ! said Mr Carker , shaking his head , 'Time flies ! 'I think so , sometimes , returned Mr Dombey , glancing at his newspaper . 
'Oh ! You ! You have no reason to think so , observed Carker . 
'One who sits on such an elevation as yours , and can sit there , unmoved , in all seasons hasn't much reason to know anything about the flight of time . 
I shall have a rising sun to worship , soon . 
'Time enough , time enough , Carker ! said Mr Dombey , rising from his chair , and standing with his back to the fire . 
'Have you anything there for me ? 'I don't know that I need trouble you , returned Carker , turning over the papers in his hand . 
'You have a committee today at three , you know . 
'And one at three , three quarters , added Mr Dombey . 
'Catch you forgetting anything ! exclaimed Carker , still turning over his papers . 
'If Mr Paul inherits your memory , he'll be a troublesome customer in the House . 
One of you is enough' 'You have an accurate memory of your own , said Mr Dombey . 
'Oh ! I ! returned the manager . 
'It's the only capital of a man like me . 
clerk , from head to foot . 
He seemed a man who would contend against the power that vanquished him , if he could , but who was utterly borne down by the greatness and superiority of Mr Dombey . 
'Is Morfin here ? asked Mr Dombey after a short pause , during which Mr Carker had been fluttering his papers , and muttering little abstracts of their contents to himself . 
I wish he'd make a bonfire of his violoncello , and burn his music books in it . 
'You respect nobody , Carker , I think , said Mr Dombey . 
'No ? inquired Carker , with another wide and most feline show of his teeth . 
'Well ! Not many people , I believe . 
I wouldn't answer perhaps , he murmured , as if he were only thinking it , 'for more than one . 
A dangerous quality , if real and a not less dangerous one , if feigned . 
You don't care who goes , I suppose ? We have nobody of that sort here . 
Mr Dombey shook his head with supreme indifference . 
'It's no very precious appointment , observed Mr Carker , taking up a pen , with which to endorse a memorandum on the back of the paper . 
'I hope he may bestow it on some orphan nephew of a musical friend . 
It may perhaps stop his fiddle playing , if he has a gift that way . 
Who's that ? Come in ! 'I beg your pardon , Mr Carker . 
I didn't know you were here , Sir , answered Walter appearing with some letters in his hand , unopened , and newly arrived . 
'Mr Carker the junior , Sir At the mention of this name , Mr Carker the Manager was or affected to be , touched to the quick with shame and humiliation . 
He cast his eyes full on Mr Dombey with an altered and apologetic look , abased them on the ground , and remained for a moment without speaking . 
'I thought , Sir , he said suddenly and angrily , turning on Walter , 'that you had been before requested not to drag Mr Carker the Junior into your conversation . 
'I beg your pardon , returned Walter . 
These are letters for Mr Dombey , Sir . 
'Very well , Sir , returned Mr Carker the Manager , plucking them sharply from his hand . 
The letters were post letters and it happened that the one in question was Mrs Pipchin's regular report , directed as usual for Mrs Pipchin was but an indifferent penwoman by Florence . 
'You can leave the room , Sir ! said Mr Dombey , haughtily . 
He crushed the letter in his hand and having watched Walter out at the door , put it in his pocket without breaking the seal . 
'I am sensitive , he returned . 
'If one in your position could by any possibility imagine yourself in my place which you cannot you would be so too . 
'You want somebody to send to the West Indies , you were saying , observed Mr Dombey , hurriedly . 
'Good , very good indeed . 
Nothing easier , said Mr Carker , without any show of surprise , and taking up the pen to re endorse the letter , as coolly as he had done before . 
'Call him back , said Mr Dombey . 
Mr Carker was quick to do so , and Walter was quick to return . 
'Gay , said Mr Dombey , turning a little to look at him over his shoulder . 
'Here is a 'An opening , said Mr Carker , with his mouth stretched to the utmost . 
I am going to send you , said Mr Dombey , scorning to embellish the bare truth , 'to fill a junior situation in the counting house at Barbados . 
Let your Uncle know from me , that I have chosen you to go to the West Indies . 
Walter's breath was so completely taken away by his astonishment , that he could hardly find enough for the repetition of the words 'West Indies . 
'Somebody must go , said Mr Dombey , 'and you are young and healthy , and your Uncle's circumstances are not good . 
Tell your Uncle that you are appointed . 
You will not go yet . 
There will be an interval of a month or two perhaps . 
'Shall I remain there , Sir ? inquired Walter . 
'Will you remain there , Sir ! repeated Mr Dombey , turning a little more round towards him . 
'What do you mean ? What does he mean , Carker ? 'Live there , Sir , faltered Walter . 
'Certainly , returned Mr Dombey . 
'That's all , said Mr Dombey , resuming his letters . 
'You will explain to him in good time about the usual outfit and so forth , Carker , of course . 
He needn't wait , Carker . 
'You needn't wait , Gay , observed Mr Carker bare to the gums . 
'Unless , said Mr Dombey , stopping in his reading without looking off the letter , and seeming to listen . 
'Unless he has anything to say . 
'I hardly know I I am much obliged , Sir . 
'He needn't wait , Carker , said Mr Dombey . 
'Bring your friend Mr Carker the Junior to my room , Sir , if you please . 
He received them without any change in his attitude or softening of his harsh and black expression merely signing to Walter to close the door . 
'You mean it , and have reason , say disgrace . 
God knows I have no such thought . 
'You are my brother , said the Manager . 
'I wish I could undo it , James . 
'I wish you could and would . 
During this conversation , Walter had looked from one brother to the other , with pain and amazement . 
Generous and quick in all his emotions , and regarding himself as the innocent occasion of these taunts , Walter now struck in , with all the earnestness he felt . 
'Mr Carker , he said , addressing himself to the Manager . 
'Indeed , indeed , this is my fault solely . 
But it has been my own mistake , Sir . 
We have never exchanged one word upon the subject very few , indeed , on any subject . 
'You are an excitable youth , Gay , he said 'and should endeavour to cool down a little now , for it would be unwise to encourage feverish predispositions . 
Be as cool as you can , Gay . 
Be as cool as you can . 
whether he claims to be , or is , an object of such strong interest . 
'James , do me justice , said his brother . 
'I have claimed nothing and I claim nothing . 
Believe me , on my 'Honour ? said his brother , with another smile , as he warmed himself before the fire . 
'Believe me , I have held myself aloof , and kept alone . 
This has been unsought by me . 
I have avoided him and everyone . 
'Indeed , you have avoided me , Mr Carker , said Walter , with the tears rising to his eyes so true was his compassion . 
'I know it , to my disappointment and regret . 
That is not the way to befriend Mr John Carker . 
Ask him if he thinks it is . 
'It is no service to me , said the brother . 
'It only leads to such a conversation as the present , which I need not say I could have well spared . 
'You are not likely to forget it now , I hope . 
In this position he could not help overhearing what followed . 
I saw in him when he first came here , almost my other self . 
'Your other self ! repeated the Manager , disdainfully . 
'I hope not , said his brother , with some hidden and sarcastic meaning in his tone . 
as if some cruel weapon actually stabbed him as he spoke . 
'I imagined all this when he was a boy . 
It was a truth to me . 
Say , so many fall . 
Think what I suffered , when I watched that boy . 
'You have only yourself to thank for it , returned the brother . 
'Only myself , he assented with a sigh . 
'I don't seek to divide the blame or shame . 
'You have divided the shame , James Carker muttered through his teeth . 
And , through so many and such close teeth , he could mutter well . 
You have trodden on me freely in your climbing up . 
Don't spurn me with your heel ! A silence ensued . 
After a time , Mr Carker the Manager was heard rustling among his papers , as if he had resolved to bring the interview to a conclusion . 
At the same time his brother withdrew nearer to the door . 
'That's all , he said . 
I didn't dare to warn him , and advise him but if I had seen direct cause , I would have shown him my example . 
There may be such contagion in me I don't know . 
Piece out my history , in connexion with young Walter Gay , and what he has made me feel and think of me more leniently , James , if you can . 
With these words he came out to where Walter was standing . 
Mr Morfin's room being close at hand and empty , and the door wide open , they moved thither by one accord the passage being seldom free from someone passing to or fro . 
'Walter , he said , laying his hand on his shoulder . 
'I am far removed from you , and may I ever be . 
Do you know what I am ? 'What you are ! appeared to hang on Walter's lips , as he regarded him attentively . 
'It was begun , said Carker , 'before my twenty first birthday led up to , long before , but not begun till near that time . 
I had robbed them when I came of age . 
Before my twenty second birthday , it was all found out and then , Walter , from all men's society , I died . 
Again his last few words hung trembling upon Walter's lips , but he could neither utter them , nor any of his own . 
'The House was very good to me . 
For many years I sat in my present seat , alone as now , but then a known and recognised example to the rest . 
They were all merciful to me , and I lived . 
Time has altered that part of my poor expiation and I think , except the three heads of the House , there is no one here who knows my story rightly . 
Before the little boy grows up , and has it told to him , my corner may be vacant . 
When Walter saw him next , he was bending over his desk in his old silent , drooping , humbled way . 
Any such violent expression as 'breaking up , would have been quite inapplicable to that polite establishment . 
The young gentlemen oozed away , semi annually , to their own homes but they never broke up . 
They would have scorned the action . 
As to Briggs , his father made no show of artifice about it . 
He never would leave him alone . 
seldom approached the ornamental piece of water in Kensington Gardens , without a vague expectation of seeing Master Briggs's hat floating on the surface , and an unfinished exercise lying on the bank . 
It was far otherwise with little Paul . 
As the happy time drew near , the lions and tigers climbing up the bedroom walls became quite tame and frolicsome . 
The grim sly faces in the squares and diamonds of the floor cloth , relaxed and peeped out at him with less wicked eyes . 
Mr Feeder , B. A. , seemed to think that he , too , would enjoy the holidays very much . 
It was perfectly understood between Paul and Mr Toots , that they were intimate friends , notwithstanding their distance in point of years and station . 
Whereas the innocent Toots had no more idea of awakening Mrs Pipchin's wrath , than he had of any other definite possibility or proposition . 
On the contrary , he was disposed to consider her rather a remarkable character , with many points of interest about her . 
Nor did he ever again face the doughty Mrs Pipchin , under Doctor Blimber's roof . 
'Thank you , Ma'am , returned Paul . 
'You know what I mean , do you , Dombey ? inquired Miss Blimber , looking hard at him , through the spectacles . 
'No , Ma'am , said Paul . 
'Dombey , Dombey , said Miss Blimber , 'I begin to be afraid you are a sad boy . 
When you don't know the meaning of an expression , why don't you seek for information ? 'Mrs Pipchin told me I wasn't to ask questions , returned Paul . 
'I must beg you not to mention Mrs Pipchin to me , on any account , Dombey , returned Miss Blimber . 
'I couldn't think of allowing it . 
The course of study here , is very far removed from anything of that sort . 
'I didn't mean , Ma'am began little Paul . 
'I must trouble you not to tell me that you didn't mean , if you please , Dombey , said Miss Blimber , who preserved an awful politeness in her admonitions . 
'That is a line of argument I couldn't dream of permitting . 
Paul felt it safest to say nothing at all , so he only looked at Miss Blimber's spectacles . 
Miss Blimber having shaken her head at him gravely , referred to a paper lying before her . 
Analysis of the character of P. Dombey . 
If my recollection serves me , said Miss Blimber breaking off , 'the word analysis as opposed to synthesis , is thus defined by Walker . 
The resolution of an object , whether of the senses or of the intellect , into its first elements . 
As opposed to synthesis , you observe . 
Now you know what analysis is , Dombey . 
Dombey didn't seem to be absolutely blinded by the light let in upon his intellect , but he made Miss Blimber a little bow . 
Analysis , resumed Miss Blimber , casting her eye over the paper , of the character of P. Dombey . 
I find that the natural capacity of Dombey is extremely good and that his general disposition to study may be stated in an equal ratio . 
It happened to answer as well as anything else he could have done and Cornelia proceeded . 
Inclination to low company , as evinced in the case of a person named Glubb , originally seven , but since reduced . 
Gentlemanly demeanour four , and improving with advancing years . 
Now what I particularly wish to call your attention to , Dombey , is the general observation at the close of this analysis . 
Paul set himself to follow it with great care . 
Now , Dombey , said Miss Blimber , laying down the paper , 'do you understand that ? 'I think I do , Ma'am , said Paul . 
'This analysis , you see , Dombey , Miss Blimber continued , 'is going to be sent home to your respected parent . 
It will naturally be very painful to him to find that you are singular in your character and conduct . 
It is naturally painful to us for we can't like you , you know , Dombey , as well as we could wish . 
She touched the child upon a tender point . 
He had secretly become more and more solicitous from day to day , as the time of his departure drew more near , that all the house should like him . 
From some hidden reason , very imperfectly understood by himself if understood at all he felt a gradually increasing impulse of affection , towards almost everything and everybody in the place . 
He could not bear to think that they would be quite indifferent to him when he was gone . 
You couldn't expect that , could you , Ma'am ? 'Oh ! the old fashioned little soul ! cried Mrs Blimber , in a whisper . 
'But I like everybody here very much , pursued Paul , 'and I should grieve to go away , and think that anyone was glad that I was gone , or didn't care . 
Mrs Blimber was now quite sure that Paul was the oddest child in the world and when she told the Doctor what had passed , the Doctor did not controvert his wife's opinion . 
But over and above the getting through his tasks , he had long had another purpose always present to him , and to which he still held fast . 
But he could not change his nature , or rewrite the analysis and so they all agreed that Dombey was old fashioned . 
There were some immunities , however , attaching to the character enjoyed by no one else . 
They could have better spared a newer fashioned child , and that alone was much . 
If anybody was to be begged off from impending punishment , Paul was always the delegate . 
The weak eyed young man himself had once consulted him , in reference to a little breakage of glass and china . 
There were some books in it , too , and a fishing rod for Mr Feeder said he should certainly make a point of learning to fish , when he could find time . 
Neither Mr Toots nor Mr Feeder could partake of this or any other snuff , even in the most stinted and moderate degree , without being seized with convulsions of sneezing . 
In the course of which cramming of their noses , they endured surprising torments with the constancy of martyrs and , drinking table beer at intervals , felt all the glories of dissipation . 
'Mine , Sir ? said Paul . 
'Your invitation , returned Mr Feeder . 
Paul thanked Mr Feeder for these hints , and pocketing his invitation , sat down on a stool by the side of Mr Toots , as usual . 
'Ah ! Come , come ! That's well ! How is my little friend now ? said Doctor Blimber , encouragingly . 
'Oh , quite well , thank you , Sir , said Paul . 
It was very kind of Mr Toots to carry him to the top of the house so tenderly and Paul told him that it was . 
'About me , said Paul . 
'No , no , said Mrs Pipchin . 
'That's what I mean to do , when I He stopped , and pondered for a moment . 
Mrs Pipchin's grey eye scanned his thoughtful face . 
'If I grow up , said Paul . 
He was very chatty with the Apothecary , and they parted excellent friends . 
That as the little fellow had set his heart on parting with his school mates on the seventeenth , it would be better to indulge the fancy if he grew no worse . 
That he was glad to hear from Mrs Pipchin , that the little fellow would go to his friends in London on the eighteenth . 
That he would write to Mr Dombey , when he should have gained a better knowledge of the case , and before that day . 
That there was no immediate cause for what ? Paul lost that word And that the little fellow had a fine mind , but was an old fashioned boy . 
, and presently a bottle and glass got into her hands magically , and she poured out the contents for him . 
had brought him his breakfast . 
'By all means , said Doctor Blimber . 
'My love , you will inform Cornelia , if you please . 
'Assuredly , said Mrs Blimber . 
'Our little friend , observed Doctor Blimber , 'has never complained . 
'Oh no ! replied the Apothecary . 
'He was not likely to complain . 
'You find him greatly better ? said Doctor Blimber . 
'Oh ! he is greatly better , Sir , returned the Apothecary . 
He lay in bed all that day , dozing and dreaming , and looking at Mr Toots but got up on the next , and went downstairs . 
Though not before he had whispered something , on the door mat , to the footman , in which there was the phrase 'old fashioned' for Paul heard it . 
But he had a great many and was always thinking , all day long . 
First , there was Florence coming to the party . 
Florence would see that the boys were fond of him and that would make her happy . 
This was his great theme . 
Florence might be all the happier too for that , perhaps , when he came back . 
that poor dear little Dombey was more old fashioned than ever . 
At last the party day arrived and Doctor Blimber said at breakfast , 'Gentlemen , we will resume our studies on the twenty fifth of next month . 
But it was only the hairdresser curling the young gentlemen , and over heating his tongs in the ardour of business . 
Shortly afterwards , Mrs Blimber appeared , looking lovely , Paul thought and attired in such a number of skirts that it was quite an excursion to walk round her . 
Miss Blimber came down soon after her Mama a little squeezed in appearance , but very charming . 
Mr Toots and Mr Feeder were the next arrivals . 
Observing that Mr Feeder's were turned up , Mr Toots turned his up but the waistbands of the next arrival being turned down , Mr Toots turned his down . 
about what you were to do with your raw materials when they came into your ports in return for your drain of gold . 
Mr Toots , to whom the question seemed perplexing , suggested 'Cook 'em . 
But Mr Baps did not appear to think that would do . 
, he could hardly make up his mind to let her go again , or to take away her bright and loving eyes from his face . 
'But what is the matter , Floy ? asked Paul , almost sure that he saw a tear there . 
'Nothing , darling nothing , returned Florence . 
Paul touched her cheek gently with his finger and it was a tear ! 'Why , Floy ! said he . 
'We'll go home together , and I'll nurse you , love , said Florence . 
'Nurse me ! echoed Paul . 
'Floy , said Paul , holding a ringlet of her dark hair in his hand . 
'Tell me , dear , Do you think I have grown old fashioned ? His sister laughed , and fondled him , and told him 'No . 
'Because I know they say so , returned Paul , 'and I want to know what they mean , Floy . 
But a loud double knock coming at the door , and Florence hurrying to the table , there was no more said between them . 
Paul wondered again when he saw his friend whisper to Florence , as if she were comforting her but a new arrival put that out of his head speedily . 
It was Sir Barnet Skettles , Lady Skettles , and Master Skettles . 
, it was anticipated that he would rather touch up the Radicals . 
'And what room is this now , for instance ? said Lady Skettles to Paul's friend , 'Melia . 
'Doctor Blimber's study , Ma'am , was the reply . 
Lady Skettles took a panoramic survey of it through her glass , and said to Sir Barnet Skettles , with a nod of approval , 'Very good . 
Sir Barnet assented , but Master Skettles looked suspicious and doubtful . 
'And this little creature , now , said Lady Skettles , turning to Paul . 
'Is he one of the 'Young gentlemen , Ma'am yes , Ma'am , said Paul's friend . 
'And what is your name , my pale child ? said Lady Skettles . 
Sir Barnet Skettles immediately interposed , and said that he had had the honour of meeting Paul's father at a public dinner , and that he hoped he was very well . 
Then Paul heard him say to Lady Skettles , 'City very rich most respectable Doctor mentioned it . 
'That is my brave boy , said Sir Barnet Skettles . 
'Barnet , to Master Skettles , who was revenging himself for the studies to come , on the plum cake , 'this is a young gentleman you ought to know . 
This is a young gentleman you may know , Barnet , said Sir Barnet Skettles , with an emphasis on the permission . 
'What eyes ! What hair ! What a lovely face ! exclaimed Lady Skettles softly , as she looked at Florence through her glass . 
'My sister , said Paul , presenting her . 
Young Barnet did not remain long in the background after they had reached the drawing room , for Dr Blimber had him out in no time , dancing with Florence . 
From his nest among the pillows , Paul could see and hear almost everything that passed as if the whole were being done for his amusement . 
Doctor Blimber answered no , he believed not and that in fact he was a Professor of 'Of something connected with statistics , I'll swear ? observed Sir Barnet Skettles . 
'Why no , Sir Barnet , replied Doctor Blimber , rubbing his chin . 
'Figures of some sort , I would venture a bet , said Sir Barnet Skettles . 
'Why yes , said Doctor Blimber , yes , but not of that sort . 
Mr Baps is a very worthy sort of man , Sir Barnet , and in fact he's our Professor of dancing . 
There was another thing that Paul observed . 
Mr Feeder , after imbibing several custard cups of negus , began to enjoy himself . 
After that , Mr Feeder not only began to dance as if he meant dancing and nothing else , but secretly to stimulate the music to perform wild tunes . 
was about a quarter of an inch long . 
Once , when there was a pause in the dancing , Lady Skettles told Paul that he seemed very fond of music . 
Paul replied , that he was and if she was too , she ought to hear his sister , Florence , sing . 
Not , as he told them when they spoke to him , not that the music was too plaintive or too sorrowful , but it was so dear to him . 
He did not know why . 
Through the universal kindness he still thought he heard it , speaking to him and even his old fashioned reputation seemed to be allied to it , he knew not how . 
Thus little Paul sat musing , listening , looking on , and dreaming and was very happy . 
Until the time arrived for taking leave and then , indeed , there was a sensation in the party . 
'Good bye , Doctor Blimber , said Paul , stretching out his hand . 
'Good bye , my little friend , returned the Doctor . 
'I'm very much obliged to you , Sir , said Paul , looking innocently up into his awful face . 
'Ask them to take care of Diogenes , if you please . 
Diogenes was the dog who had never in his life received a friend into his confidence , before Paul . 
Cornelia , taking both Paul's hands in hers , said , 'Dombey , Dombey , you have always been my favourite pupil . 
God bless you ! And it showed , Paul thought , how easily one might do injustice to a person for Miss Blimber meant it though she was a Forcer and felt it . 
They swam before him as he looked , like faces in an agitated glass and next moment he was in the dark coach outside , holding close to Florence . 
This was not quite the last of Doctor Blimber's , however . 
How Florence laughed ! Paul often remembered it , and laughed himself whenever he did so . 
But there was much , soon afterwards next day , and after that which Paul could only recollect confusedly . 
He could not even remember whether he had often said to Florence , 'Oh Floy , take me home , and never leave me ! but he thought he had . 
'I want to speak to Florence , if you please , he said . 
'To Florence by herself , for a moment ! She bent down over him , and the others stood away . 
'Floy , my pet , wasn't that Papa in the hall , when they brought me from the coach ? 'Yes , dear . 
'I'm very glad he didn't cry , said little Paul . 
Don't tell them that I asked . 
any touch of confirmation , and as time was slipping by , and he had none to lose , he felt that he must act , without hesitating any longer . 
Walter's chief difficulty was , how to break the change in his affairs to Uncle Sol , to whom he was sensible it would he a terrible blow . 
Yet it would never do to run away from him . 
He must know of it beforehand and how to tell him was the point . 
As to the question of going or not going , Walter did not consider that he had any power of choice in the matter . 
His Uncle and he lay under a great obligation to Mr Dombey , which was of Walter's own soliciting . 
But what would have been duty without that , was still duty with it or Walter thought so and duty must be done . 
But it may have been it may have been that the great man thought himself defied in this new exposition of an honest spirit , and purposed to bring it down . 
'Well ! at last and at least , Uncle Sol must be told , thought Walter , with a sigh . 
Sunday coming round , he set off therefore , after breakfast , once more to beat up Captain Cuttle's quarters . 
Quite wondering at this discovery , Walter gave a single knock . 
'Stinger , he distinctly heard the Captain say , up in his room , as if that were no business of his . 
Therefore Walter gave two knocks . 
'Wal'r ! cried the Captain , looking down upon him in amazement . 
'Ay , ay , Captain Cuttle , returned Walter , 'only me' 'What's the matter , my lad ? inquired the Captain , with great concern . 
'Gills an't been and sprung nothing again ? 'No , no , said Walter . 
'My Uncle's all right , Captain Cuttle . 
The Captain expressed his gratification , and said he would come down below and open the door , which he did . 
'So you shall , said the Captain 'what'll you take ? 'I want to take your opinion , Captain Cuttle , returned Walter , smiling . 
'That's the only thing for me . 
'Come on then , said the Captain . 
'You see , Captain Cuttle , pursued Walter , 'for myself , I am young , as Mr Dombey said , and not to be considered . 
I don't mean to say that I deserve to be the pride and delight of his life you believe me , I know but I am . 
He is old , Captain Cuttle and besides , his life is a life of custom 'Steady , Wal'r ! Of a want of custom ? said the Captain , suddenly reappearing . 
'Too true , returned Walter , shaking his head 'but I meant a life of habit , Captain Cuttle that sort of custom . 
That's my great reason for wishing you to break it out to him and that's the first point . 
'Keep her off a point or so ! observed the Captain , in a comtemplative voice . 
'What did you say , Captain Cuttle ? inquired Walter . 
'Stand by ! returned the Captain , thoughtfully . 
Walter paused to ascertain if the Captain had any particular information to add to this , but as he said no more , went on . 
'Now , the second point , Captain Cuttle . 
I am sorry to say , I am not a favourite with Mr Dombey . 
I have always tried to do my best , and I have always done it but he does not like me . 
He can't help his likings and dislikings , perhaps . 
I say nothing of that . 
I only say that I am certain he does not like me . 
, 'When found , make a note of . 
There is no one on earth in whom I can more safely trust , I am sure . 
But it was against my Uncle's wishes , and against the plans he had formed for me and there was an end of that . 
'Turn again , Whittington , muttered the disconsolate Captain , after looking at Walter for some time . 
'Ay , replied Walter , laughing , 'and turn a great many times , too , Captain Cuttle , I'm afraid , before such fortune as his ever turns up again . 
Not that I complain , he added , in his lively , animated , energetic way . 
'I have nothing to complain of . 
When I leave my Uncle , I leave him to you and I can leave him to no one better , Captain Cuttle . 
That done , he shut down his window , and went to bed again . 
, I'll leave you at the door , you know , and walk about until the afternoon . 
The Captain , however , scarcely appeared to relish the commission , or to be by any means confident of his powers of executing it . 
When you see Ned Cuttle bite his nails , Wal'r , then you may know that Ned Cuttle's aground . 
Been knocked overboard , that man , said the Captain , 'twice , and none the worse for it . 
, about the head with a ring bolt . 
And yet a clearer minded man don't walk . 
There ain't a man that walks certainly not on two legs that can come near him . 
Not near him ! 'What's his name , Captain Cuttle ? inquired Walter , determined to be interested in the Captain's friend . 
'His name's Bunsby , said the Captain . 
Finally , the Captain left off biting his nails , and said , 'Now , Wal'r , my boy , you may help me on with them slops . 
By which the Captain meant his coat and waistcoat . 
The Captain's walk was more complacent than usual when they got out into the street but this Walter supposed to be the effect of the ankle jacks , and took little heed of . 
Armed with this little token which he designed for Mr Dombey , Captain Cuttle walked on with Walter until they reached the Instrument maker's door , before which they both paused . 
'You're going in ? said Walter . 
'And you won't forget anything ? 'No , returned the Captain . 
'I'll go upon my walk at once , said Walter , 'and then I shall be out of the way , Captain Cuttle . 
'Take a good long 'un , my lad ! replied the Captain , calling after him . 
Walter waved his hand in assent , and went his way . 
He knew no better fields than those near Hampstead , and no better means of getting at them than by passing Mr Dombey's house . 
It was as stately and as dark as ever , when he went by and glanced up at its frowning front . 
Walter walked softly as he passed , and was glad when he had left the house a door or two behind . 
He looked back then with the interest he had always felt for the place since the adventure of the lost child , years ago and looked especially at those upper windows . 
While he was thus engaged , a chariot drove to the door , and a portly gentleman in black , with a heavy watch chain , alighted , and went in . 
There was no more reason why she should remember him with any interest in such an altered state of things , than any plaything she ever had . 
No , not so much . 
Running up to this coach , he found that the young woman was Miss Nipper , and that Miss Nipper was in such a flutter as to be almost beside herself . 
I've had a many fares in this coach , first and last , but never such a fare as her . 
'Do you want to go to Staggs's Gardens , Susan ? inquired Walter . 
'Ah ! She wants to go there ! WHERE IS IT ? growled the coachman . 
'I don't know where it is ! exclaimed Susan , wildly . 
There was no such place as Staggs's Gardens . 
It had vanished from the earth . 
Where the old rotten summer houses once had stood , palaces now reared their heads , and granite columns of gigantic girth opened a vista to the railway world beyond . 
Bridges that had led to nothing , led to villas , gardens , churches , healthy public walks . 
The carcasses of houses , and beginnings of new thoroughfares , had started off upon the line at steam's own speed , and shot away into the country in a monster train . 
There were railway patterns in its drapers' shops , and railway journals in the windows of its newsmen . 
There was even railway time observed in clocks , as if the sun itself had given in . 
To and from the heart of this great change , all day and night , throbbing currents rushed and returned incessantly like its life's blood . 
The very houses seemed disposed to pack up and take trips . 
But Staggs's Gardens had been cut up root and branch . 
He knowed Toodle , he said , well . 
Belonged to the Railroad , didn't he ? 'Yes' sir , yes ! cried Susan Nipper from the coach window . 
Where did he live now ? hastily inquired Walter . 
He lived in the Company's own Buildings , second turning to the right , down the yard , cross over , and take the second on the right again . 
'Has the little boy been long ill , Susan ? inquired Walter , as they hurried on . 
'Ailing for a deal of time , but no one knew how much , said Susan adding , with excessive sharpness , 'Oh , them Blimbers ! 'Blimbers ? echoed Walter . 
'Where's Mrs Richards ? exclaimed Susan Nipper , looking round . 
He had not gone five minutes' walk from the door , when a man came running after him , and begged him to return . 
Walter retraced his steps as quickly as he could , and entered the gloomy house with a sorrowful foreboding . 
What the Waves were always saying Paul had never risen from his little bed . 
He lay there , listening to the noises in the street , quite tranquilly not caring much how the time went , but watching it and watching everything about him with observing eyes . 
As the reflection died away , and a gloom went creeping up the wall , he watched it deepen , deepen , deepen , into night . 
Then he thought how the long streets were dotted with lamps , and how the peaceful stars were shining overhead . 
His only trouble was , the swift and rapid river . 
, and the country bright with dew . 
Paul always answered for himself , 'I am better . 
'Why , will it never stop , Floy ? he would sometimes ask her . 
Thus , the flush of the day , in its heat and light , would gradually decline and again the golden water would be dancing on the wall . 
, that he even knew the difference in the sound of their watches . 
But his interest centred in Sir Parker Peps , who always took his seat on the side of the bed . 
For Paul had heard them say long ago , that that gentleman had been with his Mama when she clasped Florence in her arms , and died . 
And he could not forget it , now . 
He liked him for it . 
'What is that ? 'Where , dearest ? 'There ! at the bottom of the bed . 
Paul looked at Florence with a fluttering heart , but he knew what she was going to say , and stopped her with his face against her lips . 
The next time he observed the figure sitting at the bottom of the bed , he called to it . 
'Oh yes , dear ! 'Whose , Floy ? 'Your old nurse's . 
'And where is my old nurse ? said Paul . 
Her arm trembled very much . 
'Show me that old nurse , Floy , if you please ! 'She is not here , darling . 
She shall come to morrow . 
'Thank you , Floy ! Paul closed his eyes with those words , and fell asleep . 
Paul thought he heard her telling him when he had closed his eyes again , that she would soon be back but he did not open them to see . 
He saw them now about him . 
There was no grey mist before them , as there had been sometimes in the night . 
He knew them every one , and called them by their names . 
'And who is this ? Is this my old nurse ? said the child , regarding with a radiant smile , a figure coming in . 
No other stranger would have shed those tears at sight of him , and called him her dear boy , her pretty boy , her own poor blighted child . 
No other woman would have so forgotten everybody there but him and Floy , and been so full of tenderness and pity . 
'Floy ! this is a kind good face ! said Paul . 
'I am glad to see it again . 
Don't go away , old nurse ! Stay here . 
His senses were all quickened , and he heard a name he knew . 
'Who was that , who said Walter ? he asked , looking round . 
Is he here ? I should like to see him very much . 
'Not good bye ? For an instant , Paul looked at her with the wistful face with which he had so often gazed upon her in his corner by the fire . 
'Yes , he said placidly , 'good bye ! Walter dear , good bye ! turning his head to where he stood , and putting out his hand again . 
'Where is Papa ? He felt his father's breath upon his cheek , before the words had parted from his lips . 
'Remember Walter , dear Papa , he whispered , looking in his face . 
I was fond of Walter ! The feeble hand waved in the air , as if it cried 'good bye ! to Walter once again . 
'How fast the river runs , between its green banks and the rushes , 'Floy ! But it's very near the sea . 
I hear the waves ! They always said so ! Presently he told her the motion of the boat upon the stream was lulling him to rest . 
How green the banks were now , how bright the flowers growing on them , and how tall the rushes ! Now the boat was out at sea , but gliding smoothly on . 
And now there was a shore before him . 
Who stood on the bank ! He put his hands together , as he had been used to do at his prayers . 
He did not remove his arms to do it but they saw him fold them so , behind her neck . 
'Mama is like you , Floy . 
I know her by the face ! But tell them that the print upon the stairs at school is not divine enough . 
The light about the head is shining on me as I go ! The golden ripple on the wall came back again , and nothing else stirred in the room . 
The Captain's compliments were never heard of any more . 
So , when an avalanche bears down a mountain forest , twigs and bushes suffer with the trees , and all perish together . 
If the Captain had any lurking doubt whatever of his own conclusions , he had not the least doubt that they were good conclusions for the peace of mind of the Instrument maker . 
for Walter's gain in the long run , and that he had no doubt such an investment would yield a handsome premium . 
Solomon Gills was at first stunned by the communication , which fell upon the little back parlour like a thunderbolt , and tore up the hearth savagely . 
It's an old fashioned notion , I daresay . 
He was always fond of the sea He's' and he looked wistfully at Walter 'he's glad to go . 
'Uncle Sol ! cried Walter , quickly , 'if you say that , I won't go . 
No , Captain Cuttle , I won't . 
If my Uncle thinks I could be glad to leave him , though I was going to be made Governor of all the Islands in the West Indies , that's enough . 
'Wal'r , my lad , said the Captain . 
'Steady ! Sol Gills , take an observation of your nevy . 
Following with his eyes the majestic action of the Captain's hook , the old man looked at Walter . 
'Here is a certain craft , said the Captain , with a magnificent sense of the allegory into which he was soaring , 'a going to put out on a certain voyage . 
Of course I know that Wally considers me more than himself always . 
When I say he is glad to go , I mean I hope he is . 
Is it really good fortune for him , do you tell me , now ? said the old man , looking anxiously from one to the other . 
In the hurry of preparation which Walter purposely enhanced as much as possible the old man lost what little selfpossession he ever had and so the time of departure drew on rapidly . 
It was after much consideration of this fact , and much pondering over such an unfortunate combination of circumstances , that a bright idea occurred to the Captain . 
Suppose he made a call on Mr Carker , and tried to find out from him how the land really lay ! Captain Cuttle liked this idea very much . 
It came upon him in a moment of inspiration , as he was smoking an early pipe in Brig Place after breakfast and it was worthy of the tobacco . 
He would sound Mr Carker carefully , and say much or little , just as he read that gentleman's character , and discovered that they got on well together or the reverse . 
, Captain Cuttle again assumed his ankle jacks and mourning brooch , and issued forth on this second expedition . 
'Matey , said the Captain , in persuasive accents . 
'One of your Governors is named Carker . 
Mr Perch admitted it but gave him to understand , as in official duty bound , that all his Governors were engaged , and never expected to be disengaged any more . 
'Look'ee here , mate , said the Captain in his ear 'my name's Cap'en Cuttle . 
'If you'll be so good as just report Cap'en Cuttle here , when you get a chance , said the Captain , 'I'll wait . 
, rubbed his head well all over , and appeared refreshed . 
He subsequently arranged his hair with his hook , and sat looking round the office , contemplating the clerks with a serene respect . 
The Captain's equanimity was so impenetrable , and he was altogether so mysterious a being , that Perch the messenger was daunted . 
'What name was it you said ? asked Mr Perch , bending down over him as he sat on the bracket . 
'Cap'en , in a deep hoarse whisper . 
'Yes , said Mr Perch , keeping time with his head . 
'Oh ! said Mr Perch , in the same tone , for he caught it , and couldn't help it the Captain , in his diplomacy , was so impressive . 
'I'll see if he's disengaged now . 
Perhaps he may be for a minute . 
'Ay , ay , my lad , I won't detain him longer than a minute , said the Captain , nodding with all the weighty importance that he felt within him . 
'Mr Carker ? said Captain Cuttle . 
'I believe so , said Mr Carker , showing all his teeth . 
The Captain liked his answering with a smile it looked pleasant . 
'Walter Gay ? said Mr Carker , showing all his teeth again . 
'Wal'r Gay it is , replied the Captain , 'right ! The Captain's manner expressed a warm approval of Mr Carker's quickness of perception . 
'I'm a intimate friend of his and his Uncle's . 
Perhaps , said the Captain , 'you may have heard your head Governor mention my name ? Captain Cuttle . 
'No ! said Mr Carker , with a still wider demonstration than before . 
'Well , resumed the Captain , 'I've the pleasure of his acquaintance . 
I waited upon him down on the Sussex coast there , with my young friend Wal'r , when in short , when there was a little accommodation wanted . 
The Captain nodded his head in a manner that was at once comfortable , easy , and expressive . 
'You remember , I daresay ? 'I think , said Mr Carker , 'I had the honour of arranging the business . 
'To be sure ! returned the Captain . 
'Right again ! you had . 
Now I've took the liberty of coming here 'Won't you sit down ? said Mr Carker , smiling . 
'Thank'ee , returned the Captain , availing himself of the offer . 
'A man does get more way upon himself , perhaps , in his conversation , when he sits down . 
'You have taken the liberty , you were going to say though it's none 'Thank'ee kindly , my lad , returned the Captain 'of coming here , on account of my friend Wal'r . 
Wal'r is as trim a lad as ever stepped but he's a little down by the head in one respect , and that is , modesty . 
'Right , said Mr Carker , 'I have no doubt . 
'Out'ard bound with fair weather , then , I say , cried Captain Cuttle . 
'Wind right astarn , and plenty of it , pursued the Captain . 
Mr Carker smiled assent again . 
'Ay , ay ! said Captain Cuttle , greatly relieved and pleased . 
'I know'd how she headed , well enough I told Wal'r so . 
'Gay has brilliant prospects , observed Mr Carker , stretching his mouth wider yet 'all the world before him . 
'All the world and his wife too , as the saying is , returned the delighted Captain . 
'I'd bet a gill of old Jamaica , said the Captain , eyeing him attentively , 'that I know what you're a smiling at . 
Mr Carker took his cue , and smiled the more . 
'It goes no farther ? said the Captain , making a poke at the door with the knobby stick to assure himself that it was shut . 
'Not an inch , said Mr Carker . 
'You're thinking of a capital F perhaps ? said the Captain . 
Mr Carker didn't deny it . 
'Anything about a L , said the Captain , 'or a O ? Mr Carker still smiled . 
'Am I right , again ? inquired the Captain in a whisper , with the scarlet circle on his forehead swelling in his triumphant joy . 
he had laid his course that way all along . 
We've always said , Sol Gills and me , that they was cut out for each other . 
'There's a general indraught that way , observed the happy Captain . 
'Wind and water sets in that direction , you see . 
Look at his being present t'other day ! 'Most favourable to his hopes , said Mr Carker . 
'Look at his being towed along in the wake of that day ! pursued the Captain . 
'Why what can cut him adrift now ? 'Nothing , replied Mr Carker . 
'You're right again , returned the Captain , giving his hand another squeeze . 
So ! steady ! There's a son gone pretty little creetur . 
Ain't there ? 'Yes , there's a son gone , said the acquiescent Carker . 
'Pass the word , and there's another ready for you , quoth the Captain . 
'Am I right ? said the Captain . 
I understand that we speak together in confidence . 
'Honour ! interposed the Captain . 
'To him or anyone ? pursued the Manager . 
Captain Cuttle frowned and shook his head . 
'But merely for your own satisfaction and guidance and guidance , of course , repeated Mr Carker , 'with a view to your future proceedings . 
'Thank'ee kindly , I am sure , said the Captain , listening with great attention . 
'I have no hesitation in saying , that's the fact . 
You have hit the probabilities exactly . 
'And with regard to your head Governor , said the Captain , 'why an interview had better come about nat'ral between us . 
Mr Carker , with his mouth from ear to ear , repeated , 'Time enough . 
Not articulating the words , but bowing his head affably , and forming them with his tongue and lips . 
'And as I know it's what I always said that Wal'r's in a way to make his fortune , said the Captain . 
'To make his fortune , Mr Carker repeated , in the same dumb manner . 
'And as Wal'r's going on this little voyage is , as I may say , in his day's work , and a part of his general expectations here , said the Captain . 
'Of his general expectations here , assented Mr Carker , dumbly as before . 
'Why , so long as I know that , pursued the Captain , 'there's no hurry , and my mind's at ease . 
, and gave him a grip that left upon his smoother flesh a proof impression of the chinks and crevices with which the Captain's palm was liberally tattooed . 
'Farewell ! said the Captain . 
'I ain't a man of many words , but I take it very kind of you to be so friendly , and above board . 
You'll excuse me if I've been at all intruding , will you ? said the Captain . 
'Not at all , returned the other . 
With that hospitable invitation , the Captain said 'Good day ! and walked out and shut the door leaving Mr Carker still reclining against the chimney piece . 
The unconscious Captain walked out in a state of self glorification that imparted quite a new cut to the broad blue suit . 
'Stand by , Ned ! said the Captain to himself . 
Being promptly joined by Mr Perch , he conveyed that gentleman to the tavern , and fulfilled his pledge hastily , for Perch's time was precious . 
'I'll give you for a toast , said the Captain , 'Wal'r ! 'Who ? submitted Mr Perch . 
'Wal'r ! repeated the Captain , in a voice of thunder . 
Father and Daughter There is a hush through Mr Dombey's house . 
Servants gliding up and down stairs rustle , but make no sound of footsteps . 
They talk together constantly , and sit long at meals , making much of their meat and drink , and enjoying themselves after a grim unholy fashion . 
Cook's state of mind is similar . 
She promises a little fry for supper , and struggles about equally against her feelings and the onions . 
Towlinson begins to think there's a fate in it , and wants to know if anybody can tell him ofany good that ever came of living in a corner house . 
It seems to all of them as having happened a long time ago though yet the child lies , calm and beautiful , upon his little bed . 
There is not much business done . 
The clerks are indisposed to work and they make assignations to eat chops in the afternoon , and go up the river . 
Perch , the messenger , stays long upon his errands and finds himself in bars of public houses , invited thither by friends , and holding forth on the uncertainty of human affairs . 
He goes home to Ball's Pond earlier in the evening than usual , and treats Mrs Perch to a veal cutlet and Scotch ale . 
He is not 'brought down , these observers think , by sorrow and distress of mind . 
His walk is as erect , his bearing is as stiff as ever it has been . 
He hides his face behind no handkerchief , and looks before him . 
But that his face is something sunk and rigid , and is pale , it bears the same expression as of old . 
He takes his place within the carriage , and three other gentlemen follow . 
Then the grand funeral moves slowly down the street . 
The feathers are yet nodding in the distance , when the juggler has the basin spinning on a cane , and has the same crowd to admire it . 
The feathers wind their gloomy way along the streets , and come within the sound of a church bell . 
In this same church , the pretty boy received all that will soon be left of him on earth a name . 
All of him that is dead , they lay there , near the perishable substance of his mother . 
Their ashes lie where Florence in her walks oh lonely , lonely walks ! may pass them any day . 
Then , with his pencil , he writes out the inscription , and gives it to him adding , 'I wish to have it done at once . 
'It shall be done immediately , Sir . 
'There is really nothing to inscribe but name and age , you see . 
The man bows , glancing at the paper , but appears to hesitate . 
Mr Dombey not observing his hesitation , turns away , and leads towards the porch . 
'Where ? The statuary gives him back the paper , and points out , with his pocket rule , the words , 'beloved and only child . 
'It should be , son , I think , Sir ? 'You are right . 
The father , with a hastier step , pursues his way to the coach . 
When the other three , who follow closely , take their seats , his face is hidden for the first time shaded by his cloak . 
Nor do they see it any more that day . 
He alights first , and passes immediately into his own room . 
proceed upstairs to the drawing room , to be received by Mrs Chick and Miss Tox . 
And what the face is , in the shut up chamber underneath or what the thoughts are what the heart is , what the contest or the suffering no one knows . 
The chief thing that they know , below stairs , in the kitchen , is that 'it seems like Sunday . 
They are much inclined to moralise . 
Mr Towlinson proposes with a sigh , 'Amendment to us all ! for which , as Cook says with another sigh , 'There's room enough , God knows . 
In the evening , Mrs Chick and Miss Tox take to needlework again . 
In the evening also , Mr Towlinson goes out to take the air , accompanied by the housemaid , who has not yet tried her mourning bonnet . 
They are very tender to each other at dusky street corners , and Towlinson has visions of leading an altered and blameless existence as a serious greengrocer in Oxford Market . 
There is sounder sleep and deeper rest in Mr Dombey's house tonight , than there has been for many nights . 
The morning sun awakens the old household , settled down once more in their old ways . 
The rosy children opposite run past with hoops . 
There is a splendid wedding in the church . 
The juggler's wife is active with the money box in another quarter of the town . 
The mason sings and whistles as he chips out P A U L in the marble slab before him . 
'I will try , dear aunt I do try , answered Florence , sobbing . 
If any my dear , turning to Miss Tox , 'I want a word . 
Mis Mis 'Demeanour ? suggested Miss Tox . 
'No , no , no , said Mrs Chic 'How can you ! Goodness me , it's on , the end of my tongue . 
Mis Placed affection ? suggested Miss Tox , timidly . 
'Good gracious , Lucretia ! returned Mrs Chick 'How very monstrous ! Misanthrope , is the word I want . 
'Unhappily , pursued Mrs Chick , 'we have a warning under our own eyes . 
'Therefore , Florence , pray let us see that you have some strength of mind , and do not selfishly aggravate the distress in which your poor Papa is plunged . 
'Dear aunt ! said Florence , kneeling quickly down before her , that she might the better and more earnestly look into her face . 
'Tell me more about Papa . 
Pray tell me about him ! Is he quite heartbroken ? Miss Tox was of a tender nature , and there was something in this appeal that moved her very much . 
I believe I have as much influence with your Papa as anybody has . 
I am better by myself . 
'Exceedingly kind notes , proposing that you should visit them for change of scene . 
, I inquired if he had any objection to your accepting this invitation . 
'Why then , child , 'said Mrs Chick , 'you can . 
It's a strange choice , I must say . 
But you always were strange . 
'I should not like to feel , said Florence , 'as if the house was avoided . 
I should not like to think that the his the rooms upstairs were quite empty and dreary , aunt . 
I would rather stay here , for the present . 
You will remain here , then , and do exactly as you like . 
No one will interfere with you , Florence , or wish to interfere with you , I'm sure . 
I'm sure I hope he'll go very soon . 
He can't go too soon . 
There's no fear of him . 
Don't dream of such a thing . 
'Aunt , said Florence , 'I will go and lie down on my bed . 
Mrs Chick approved of this resolution , and dismissed her with a kiss . 
Stricken motherless and brotherless at once for in the loss of little Paul , that first and greatest loss fell heavily upon her this was the only help she had . 
This commonly ensued upon the recognition of some spot or object very tenderly dated with him and it made the ale house , at first , a place of agony . 
But it is not in the nature of pure love to burn so fiercely and unkindly long . 
It was not very long before that room again knew her , often sitting there alone , as patient and as mild as when she had watched beside the little bed . 
But it was repeated , often very often , in the shadowy solitude and broken murmurs of the strain still trembled on the keys , when the sweet voice was hushed in tears . 
But they were motherless like her and had a father . 
Florence would sometimes look no more at this , and bursting into tears would hide behind the curtain as if she were frightened , or would hurry from the window . 
Yet she could not help returning and her work would soon fall unheeded from her hands again . 
It was the house that had been empty , years ago . 
It had remained so for a long time . 
But she never thought of the house . 
The children and their father were all in all . 
When they had candles , Florence from her own dark room was not afraid to look again . 
But that she ever thought of it , or watched it , was a secret which she kept within her own young breast . 
Against it , scarcely breathing , she would rest her face and head , and press her lips , in the yearning of her love . 
No one knew it' No one thought of it . 
The door was ever closed , and he shut up within . 
Perhaps he did not even know that she was in the house . 
'A visitor ! To me , Susan ! said Florence , looking up in astonishment . 
To do Miss Nipper justice , she spoke more for her young mistress than herself and her face showed it . 
'But the visitor , Susan , said Florence . 
But at any rate it was a smile , and that gave great satisfaction to Miss Nipper . 
'My own feelings exactly , Miss Floy , said Susan , putting her apron to her eyes , and shaking her head . 
'Immediately I see that Innocent in the Hall , Miss Floy , I burst out laughing first , and then I choked . 
Susan Nipper involuntarily proceeded to do the like again on the spot . 
'How d'ye do , Miss Dombey ? said Mr Toots . 
'How d'ye do , Miss Dombey ? said Mr Toots . 
'I'm very well , I thank you how are you ? Florence gave him her hand , and said she was very well . 
'I'm very well indeed , said Mr Toots , taking a chair . 
'Very well indeed , I am . 
I don't remember , said Mr Toots , after reflecting a little , 'that I was ever better , thank you . 
'It's very kind of you to come , said Florence , taking up her work , 'I am very glad to see you . 
Mr Toots responded with a chuckle . 
Thinking that might be too lively , he corrected it with a sigh . 
Thinking that might be too melancholy , he corrected it with a chuckle . 
Not thoroughly pleasing himself with either mode of reply , he breathed hard . 
'You were very kind to my dear brother , said Florence , obeying her own natural impulse to relieve him by saying so . 
'He often talked to me about you . 
'Oh it's of no consequence , said Mr Toots hastily . 
'Warm , ain't it ? 'It is beautiful weather , replied Florence . 
'It agrees with me ! said Mr Toots . 
'I don't think I ever was so well as I find myself at present , I'm obliged to you . 
After stating this curious and unexpected fact , Mr Toots fell into a deep well of silence . 
'You have left Dr Blimber's , I think ? said Florence , trying to help him out . 
'I should hope so , returned Mr Toots . 
He remained at the bottom , apparently drowned , for at least ten minutes . 
At the expiration of that period , he suddenly floated , and said , 'Well ! Good morning , Miss Dombey . 
'Are you going ? asked Florence , rising . 
'I don't know , though . 
No , not just at present , said Mr Toots , sitting down again , most unexpectedly . 
'Would you , though ? retorted Mr Toots , with sympathy in every fibre of his otherwise expressionless face . 
'Poor Dombey ! I'm sure I never thought that Burgess and Co . 
, that we used to talk about would make this suit of clothes for such a purpose . 
Mr Toots was dressed in mourning . 
'Poor Dombey ! I say ! Miss Dombey ! blubbered Toots . 
'There's a friend he took to very much at last . 
I thought you'd lIke to have him , perhaps , as a sort of keepsake . 
You remember his remembering Diogenes ? 'Oh yes ! oh yes' cried Florence . 
'Poor Dombey ! So do I , said Mr Toots . 
Mr Toots , seeing Florence in tears , had great difficulty in getting beyond this point , and had nearly tumbled into the well again . 
But a chucKle saved him on the brink . 
If you'd like to have him , he's at the door . 
I brought him on purpose for you . 
So dear , indeed , was this same ugly Diogenes , and so welcome to her , that she took the jewelled hand of Mr Toots and kissed it in her gratitude . 
Not exactly seeing his way to the end of these demonstrations , and sensible that they placed the pantaloons constructed by the art of Burgess and Co . 
'Come , then , Di ! Dear Di ! Make friends with your new mistress . 
Let us love each other , Di ! 'said Florence , fondling his shaggy head . 
Diogenes the man did not speak plainer to Alexander the Great than Diogenes the dog spoke to Florence . 
He subscribed to the offer of his little mistress cheerfully , and devoted himself to her service . 
Finally , Diogenes coiled himself up at her feet and went to sleep . 
'To morrow morning , Susan ? 'Yes , Miss that's the orders . 
'Do you know , asked Florence , without looking at her , 'where Papa is going , Susan ? 'Not exactly , Miss . 
, it shouldn't be a blue one ! 'Hush , Susan ! urged Florence gently . 
'Well , Miss Floy , returned Miss Nipper , who was full of burning indignation , and minded her stops even less than usual . 
'I can't help it , blue he is , and while I was a Christian , although humble , I would have natural coloured friends , or none . 
'Talk of him being a change , indeed ! observed Miss Nipper to herself with boundless contempt . 
'If he's a change , give me a constancy . 
'Good night , Susan , said Florence . 
'Good night , my darling dear Miss Floy . 
Her tone of commiseration smote the chord so often roughly touched , but never listened to while she or anyone looked on . 
Florence left alone , laid her head upon her hand , and pressing the other over her swelling heart , held free communication with her sorrows . 
It was a wet night and the melancholy rain fell pattering and dropping with a weary sound . 
A sluggish wind was blowing , and went moaning round the house , as if it were in pain or grief . 
A shrill noise quivered through the trees . 
While she sat weeping , it grew late , and dreary midnight tolled out from the steeples . 
But her innocent imagination was too full of one theme to admit them . 
Nothing wandered in her thoughts but love a wandering love , indeed , and castaway but turning always to her father . 
But the night covered it , and no one knew . 
The moment that she touched the door on this night , Florence found that it was open . 
For the first time it stood open , though by but a hair's breadth and there was a light within . 
The first impulse of the timid child and she yielded to it was to retire swiftly . 
Her next , to go back , and to enter and this second impulse held her in irresolution on the staircase . 
In its standing open , even by so much as that chink , there seemed to be hope . 
There was encouragement in seeing a ray of light from within , stealing through the dark stern doorway , and falling in a thread upon the marble floor . 
Her father sat at his old table in the middle room . 
He had been arranging some papers , and destroying others , and the latter lay in fragile ruins before him . 
His face was turned towards her . 
By the waning lamp , and at that haggard hour , it looked worn and dejected and in the utter loneliness surrounding him , there was an appeal to Florence that struck home . 
'Papa ! Papa ! speak to me , dear Papa ! He started at her voice , and leaped up from his seat . 
She was close before him' with extended arms , but he fell back . 
'What is the matter ? he said , sternly . 
'Why do you come here ? What has frightened you ? If anything had frightened her , it was the face he turned upon her . 
The glowing love within the breast of his young daughter froze before it , and she stood and looked at him as if stricken into stone . 
There was not one touch of tenderness or pity in it . 
There was not one gleam of interest , parental recognition , or relenting in it . 
There was a change in it , but not of that kind . 
But love is quick to know when it is spurned and hopeless and hope died out of hers , as she stood looking in her father's face . 
'I ask you , Florence , are you frightened ? Is there anything the matter , that you come here ? 'I came , Papa 'Against my wishes . 
Why ? She saw he knew why it was written broadly on his face and dropped her head upon her hands with one prolonged low cry . 
Let him remember it in that room , years to come . 
It has faded from the air , before he breaks the silence . 
It may pass as quickly from his brain , as he believes , but it is there . 
Let him remember it in that room , years to come ! He took her by the arm . 
His hand was cold , and loose , and scarcely closed upon her . 
'You are tired , I daresay , he said , taking up the light , and leading her towards the door , 'and want rest . 
The whole house is yours above there , said her father , slowly . 
'You are its mistress now . 
Good night ! Still covering her face , she sobbed , and answered 'Good night , dear Papa , and silently ascended . 
Once she looked back as if she would have returned to him , but for fear . 
Let him remember it in that room , years to come . 
The rain that falls upon the roof the wind that mourns outside the door may have foreknowledge in their melancholy sound . 
Diogenes was broad awake upon his post , and waiting for his little mistress . 
'Oh , Di ! Oh , dear Di ! Love me for his sake ! Diogenes already loved her for her own , and didn't care how much he showed it . 
Such a Midshipman he seemed to be , at least , in the then position of domestic affairs . 
Dismantled of his little stock of books and pictures , it looked coldly and reproachfully on him for his desertion , and had already a foreshadowing upon it of its coming strangeness . 
'A few hours more , thought Walter , 'and no dream I ever had here when I was a schoolboy will be so little mine as this old room . 
'Uncle , he said gaily , laying his hand upon the old man's shoulder , 'what shall I send you home from Barbados ? 'Hope , my dear Wally . 
Hope that we shall meet again , on this side of the grave . 
Send me as much of that as you can . 
Old Sol wiped his spectacles , and faintly smiled . 
'That's right , Uncle ! cried Walter , merrily , and clapping him half a dozen times more upon the shoulder . 
'Wally , my dear boy , returned the old man , 'I'll do my best , I'll do my best . 
'And your best , Uncle , said Walter , with his pleasant laugh , 'is the best best that I know . 
I fear it won't be much though , Wally . 
'Why , I'll tell you what , Uncle , said Walter , after a moment's hesitation , 'I have just been up there . 
'Ay , ay , ay ? murmured the old man , raising his eyebrows , and his spectacles with them . 
I thought I might venture to do that , you know , under the circumstances , and remembering when I saw Miss Dombey last . 
'Yes , my boy , yes , replied his Uncle , rousing himself from a temporary abstraction . 
'So I saw her , pursued Walter , 'Susan , I mean and I told her I was off and away to morrow . 
Don't you think so ? 'Yes , my boy , yes , replied his Uncle , in the tone as before . 
His honest voice and manner corroborated what he said , and quite established its ingenuousness . 
Tell her that I said I never could forget her gentle manner , or her beautiful face , or her sweet kind disposition that was better than all . 
But that ancient mariner might have been excused his insensibility to the treasure as it rolled away . 
'Why , Uncle ! exclaimed Walter . 
'What's the matter ? Old Solomon replied , 'Miss Dombey ! 'Is it possible ? cried Walter , looking round and starting up in his turn . 
'Yes , Miss Dombey , he replied , but not so hopefully as he endeavoured 'I have a voyage before me . 
'And your Uncle , said Florence , looking back at Solomon . 
'He is sorry you are going , I am sure . 
Ah ! I see he is ! Dear Walter , I am very sorry too . 
In the meantime Florence had turned again to the Instrument maker , who was as full of admiration as surprise . 
'So grown ! said old Sol . 
'So improved ! And yet not altered ! Just the same ! 'Indeed ! said Florence . 
'Ye yes , returned old Sol , rubbing his hands slowly , and considering the matter half aloud , as something pensive in the bright eyes looking at him arrested his attention . 
'I I am afraid I must call you Walter's Uncle , Sir , said Florence to the old man , 'if you'll let me . 
'My dear young lady , cried old Sol . 
'Let you ! Good gracious ! 'We always knew you by that name , and talked of you , said Florence , glancing round , and sighing gently . 
'No , Walter , returned Florence with her quiet smile . 
'Say nothing for him , if you please . 
I understand him very well , and we must learn to talk together without you , dear Walter . 
The regretful tone in which she said these latter words , touched Walter more than all the rest . 
'Like a stranger ! returned Walter , 'No . 
I am sure , at least , I couldn't feel like one . 
'Ay , but that is not enough , and is not what I mean . 
And in its fulness and its sweet simplicity , she held out both her hands to him . 
In that one moment , every shadow of doubt or agitation passed away from Walter's soul . 
Half an hour ago Walter , for his life , would have hardly called her by her name . 
But he could do so now when she entreated him . 
He could think of her being there , without a lurking misgiving that it would have been better if she had not come . 
He could calmly think how beautiful she was , how full of promise , what a home some happy man would find in such a heart one day . 
Some counter influence must surely have hovered round the hands of Uncle Sol's chronometer , and moved them faster than the Tartar frigate ever went before the wind . 
If Uncle Sol had been going to be hanged by his own time , he never would have allowed that the chronometer was too fast , by the least fraction of a second . 
Florence at parting recapitulated to the old man all that she had said before , and bound him to the compact . 
Uncle Sol attended her lovingly to the legs of the wooden Midshipman , and there resigned her to Walter , who was ready to escort her and Susan Nipper to the coach . 
'Walter , said Florence by the way , 'I have been afraid to ask before your Uncle . 
Do you think you will be absent very long ? 'Indeed , said Walter , 'I don't know . 
Mr Dombey signified as much , I thought , when he appointed me . 
'Is it a favour , Walter ? inquired Florence , after a moment's hesitation , and looking anxiously in his face . 
'The appointment ? returned Walter . 
Walter would have given anything to have answered in the affirmative , but his face answered before his lips could , and Florence was too attentive to it not to understand its reply . 
'I am afraid you have scarcely been a favourite with Papa , she said , timidly . 
'There is no reason , replied Walter , smiling , 'why I should be . 
'No reason , Walter ! 'There was no reason , said Walter , understanding what she meant . 
'There are many people employed in the House . 
Between Mr Dombey and a young man like me , there's a wide space of separation . 
If I do my duty , I do what I ought , and do no more than all the rest . 
Neither of them spoke at all , for some short time . 
Susan , walking on the other side of Walter , eyed them both sharply and certainly Miss Nipper's thoughts travelled in that direction , and very confidently too . 
'You may come back very soon , said Florence , 'perhaps , Walter . 
'I may come back , said Walter , 'an old man , and find you an old lady . 
But I hope for better things . 
There was a touching modulation in these words about her father , that Walter understood too well . 
'Walter , she said , looking full upon him with her affectionate eyes , 'like you , I hope for better things . 
I will pray for them , and believe that they will arrive . 
I made this little gift for Paul . 
Pray take it with my love , and do not look at it until you are gone away . 
And now , God bless you , Walter ! never forget me . 
You are my brother , dear ! He was glad that Susan Nipper came between them , or he might have left her with a sorrowful remembrance of him . 
He was glad too that she did not look out of the coach again , but waved the little hand to him instead , as long as he could see it . 
In spite of her request , he could not help opening the packet that night when he went to bed . 
It was a little purse and there was was money in it . 
The Captain pretended to be in tip top spirits , and brought a very smoky tongue in one of the pockets of the of the broad blue coat for breakfast . 
'No , no , Ned , returned the old man . 
'No ! That shall be opened when Walter comes home again . 
'Well said ! cried the Captain . 
'Hear him ! 'There it lies , said Sol Gills , 'down in the little cellar , covered with dirt and cobwebs . 
There may be dirt and cobwebs over you and me perhaps , Ned , before it sees the light . 
'Hear him ! 'cried the Captain . 
'Good morality ! Wal'r , my lad . 
Train up a fig tree in the way it should go , and when you are old sit under the shade on it . 
Overhaul the Well , said the Captain on second thoughts , 'I ain't quite certain where that's to be found , but when found , make a note of . 
Sol Gills , heave ahead again ! 'But there or somewhere , it shall lie , Ned , until Wally comes back to claim it , said the old man . 
'That's all I meant to say . 
'And well said too , returned the Captain 'and if we three don't crack that bottle in company , I'll give you two leave to . 
These artifices Captain Cuttle deemed inscrutable by any uninspired observer . 
'Mr Carker ! cried Walter , pressing the hand of John Carker the Junior . 
'Pray come in ! This is kind of you , to be here so early to say good bye to me . 
You knew how glad it would make me to shake hands with you , once , before going away . 
I cannot say how glad I am to have this opportunity . 
'It is not likely that we may ever meet again , Walter , returned the other , gently resisting his invitation , 'and I am glad of this opportunity too . 
I may venture to speak to you , and to take you by the hand , on the eve of separation . 
I shall not have to resist your frank approaches , Walter , any more . 
There was a melancholy in his smile as he said it , that showed he had found some company and friendship for his thoughts even in that . 
'Ah , Mr Carker ! returned Walter . 
'Why did you resist them ? You could have done me nothing but good , I am very sure . 
'If there were any good , he said , 'I could do on this earth , I would do it , Walter , for you . 
The sight of you from day to day , has been at once happiness and remorse to me . 
But the pleasure has outweighed the pain . 
I know that , now , by knowing what I lose . 
'Come in , Mr Carker , and make acquaintance with my good old Uncle , urged Walter . 
'I have often talked to him about you , and he will be glad to tell you all he hears from me . 
The grey Junior pressed his hand , and tears rose in his eyes . 
'If I ever make acquaintance with him , Walter , he returned , 'it will be that I may hear tidings of you . 
Rely on my not wronging your forbearance and consideration . 
It would be to wrong it , not to tell him all the truth , before I sought a word of confidence from him . 
But I have no friend or acquaintance except you and even for your sake , am little likely to make any . 
'I wish , said Walter , 'you had suffered me to be your friend indeed . 
Walter , good bye ! 'Good bye , Mr Carker . 
Heaven be with you , Sir ! cried Walter with emotion . 
Becoming the lawful prize of this personage , who was frightfully hoarse and constitutionally in want of shaving , they were all three put aboard the Son and Heir . 
'Wal'r , said the Captain , handing it over , and shaking him heartily by the hand , 'a parting gift , my lad . 
Put it back half an hour every morning , and about another quarter towards the arternoon , and it's a watch that'll do you credit . 
'Captain Cuttle ! I couldn't think of it ! cried Walter , detaining him , for he was running away . 
'No , no , I couldn't indeed ! cried Walter , 'a thousand thanks ! Don't throw them away , Captain Cuttle ! for the Captain was about to jerk them overboard . 
'They'll be of much more use to you than me . 
I have often thought I should like to have it . 
, and gesticulating hopefully with the teaspoons and sugar tongs . 
The glazed hat made quite a show in the sun with its glistening , and the Captain continued to wave it until he could be seen no longer . 
Day after day , old Sol and Captain Cuttle kept her reckoning in the little hack parlour and worked out her course , with the chart spread before them on the round table . 
Mr Dombey goes upon a Journey 'Mr Dombey , Sir , said Major Bagstock , 'Joee' B. is not in general a man of sentiment , for Joseph is tough . 
with the freedom and frankness ofa travelling companion . 
'Dombey , said the Major , 'I'm glad to see you . 
I'm proud to see you . 
There are not many men in Europe to whom J. Bagstock would say that for Josh is blunt . 
Sir it's his nature but Joey B. is proud to see you , Dombey . 
'Major , returned Mr Dombey , 'you are very obliging . 
'No , Sir , said the Major , 'Devil a bit ! That's not my character . 
You don't know old Joe yet , I find . 
But this occasion , being special , is a source of pride to me . 
But the instinctive recognition of such a truth by the Major , and his plain avowal of it , were very able . 
It was a confirmation to Mr Dombey , if he had required any , of his not being mistaken in the Major . 
What could it do , his boy had asked him . 
Mr Dombey , in his friendlessness , inclined to the Major . 
It cannot be said that he warmed towards him , but he thawed a little , The Major had had some part and not too much in the days by the seaside . 
He was a man of the world , and knew some great people . 
'Where is my scoundrel ? said the Major , looking wrathfully round the room . 
The Native , who had no particular name , but answered to any vituperative epithet , presented himself instantly at the door and ventured to come no nearer . 
Old Joe can give you nothing but camp fare , you see . 
'You have been looking over the way , Sir , observed the Major . 
'Have you seen our friend ? 'You mean Miss Tox , retorted Mr Dombey . 
'Charming woman , Sir , said the Major , with a fat laugh rising in his short throat , and nearly suffocating him . 
'Miss Tox is a very good sort of person , I believe , replied Mr Dombey . 
The haughty coldness of the reply seemed to afford Major Bagstock infinite delight . 
He swelled and swelled , exceedingly and even laid down his knife and fork for a moment , to rub his hands . 
'Old Joe , Sir , said the Major , 'was a bit ofa favourite in that quarter once . 
But Joe has had his day . 
J. Bagstock is extinguished outrivalled floored , Sir . 
'I should have supposed , Mr Dombey replied , 'that the lady's day for favourites was over but perhaps you are jesting , Major . 
'Perhaps you are jesting , Dombey ? was the Major's rejoinder . 
There never was a more unlikely possiblity . 
It was so clearly expressed in Mr Dombey's face , that the Major apologised . 
'I beg your pardon , he said . 
'I see you are in earnest . 
I tell you what , Dombey . 
The Major paused in his eating , and looked mysteriously indignant . 
'That's a de vilish ambitious woman , Sir . 
Mr Dombey said 'Indeed ? with frigid indifference mingled perhaps with some contemptuous incredulity as to Miss Tox having the presumption to harbour such a superior quality . 
'That woman , Sir , said the Major , 'is , in her way , a Lucifer . 
Joey B. has had his day , Sir , but he keeps his eyes . 
He sees , does Joe . 
His Royal Highness the late Duke of York observed of Joey , at a levee , that he saw . 
'That ridiculous old spectacle , Sir , pursued the Major , 'aspires . 
She aspires sky high , Sir . 
'I am sorry for her , said Mr Dombey . 
'Don't say that , Dombey , returned the Major in a warning voice . 
'Why should I not , Major ? said Mr Dombey . 
The Major gave no answer but the horse's cough , and went on eating vigorously . 
'She has taken an interest in your household , said the Major , stopping short again , 'and has been a frequent visitor at your house for some time now . 
I have , said Mr Dombey , in the tone of a man who was making a great and valuable concession , 'I have a respect for Miss Tox . 
I hold myself indebted to Miss Tox , Major , added Mr Dombey , with a slight wave of his hand , 'for the pleasure of your acquaintance . 
'Dombey , said the Major , warmly 'no ! No , Sir ! Joseph Bagstock can never permit that assertion to pass uncontradicted . 
Mr Dombey seemed touched , as it is not improbable the Major designed he should be , by this allusion . 
'Our friend had a remote connexion with that event , said the Major , 'and all the credit that belongs to her , J. B. is willing to give her , Sir . 
Here the Major laughed frightfully up in the tips of his ears and in the veins of his head . 
Mr Dombey involuntarily glanced over the way and an angry glance he sent in that direction , too . 
'That's all on such a subject that shall pass the lips of Joseph Bagstock , said the Major firmly . 
The emotion of this outbreak threw the Major into a paroxysm of horse's coughs , which held him for a long time . 
Mr Dombey , in a few words , expressed his sense of the preference he received over those other distinguished members of society who were clamouring for the possession of Major Bagstock . 
B. , Dombey is the man for you to choose as a friend . 
But before the carriage moved away , and while the Native was in the act of sepulture , Miss Tox appearing at her window , waved a lilywhite handkerchief . 
unbounded satisfaction and he sat for a long time afterwards , leering , and choking , like an over fed Mephistopheles . 
At length , however , this man stepped before them as they turned round , and pulling his hat off , and keeping it off , ducked his head to Mr Dombey . 
'Beg your pardon , Sir , said the man , 'but I hope you're a doin' pretty well , Sir . 
He was dressed in a canvas suit abundantly besmeared with coal dust and oil , and had cinders in his whiskers , and a smell of half slaked ashes all over him . 
'I shall have the honour of stokin' of you down , Sir , said Mr Toodle . 
'Beg your pardon , Sir . 
'Your wife wants money , I suppose , said Mr Dombey , putting his hand in his pocket , and speaking haughtily . 
'No thank'ee , Sir , returned Toodle , 'I can't say she does . 
Mr Dombey was stopped short now in his turn and awkwardly with his hand in his pocket . 
'No , Sir , said Toodle , turning his oilskin cap round and round 'we're a doin' pretty well , Sir we haven't no cause to complain in the worldly way , Sir . 
We've had four more since then , Sir , but we rubs on . 
'We lost one babby , observed Toodle , 'there's no denyin' . 
'Lately , added Mr Dombey , looking at the cap . 
'No , Sir , up'ard of three years ago , but all the rest is hearty . 
They've made a wery tolerable scholar of me , Sir , them boys . 
'Come , Major ! said Mr Dombey . 
'Well , man , said Mr Dombey in his severest manner . 
'He has gone wrong , has he ? said Mr Dombey , with a hard kind of satisfaction . 
'He has got into bad ways . 
Polly's dreadful down about it , genelmen , said Toodle with the same dejected look , and another appeal to the Major . 
'A son of this man's whom I caused to be educated , Major , said Mr Dombey , giving him his arm . 
'The usual return ! 'Take advice from plain old Joe , and never educate that sort of people , Sir , returned the Major . 
The very speed at which the train was whirled along , mocked the swift course of the young life that had been borne away so steadily and so inexorably to its foredoomed end . 
There are dark pools of water , muddy lanes , and miserable habitations far below . 
It was the journey's fitting end , and might have been the end of everything it was so ruinous and dreary . 
So , pursuing the one course of thought , he had the one relentless monster still before him . 
All things looked black , and cold , and deadly upon him , and he on them . 
He found a likeness to his misfortune everywhere . 
He had seen it , with the expression of last night , timidly pleading to him . 
It was a trouble to him to think of this face of Florence . 
Because the face was abroad , in the expression of defeat and persecution that seemed to encircle him like the air . 
Because it barbed the arrow of that cruel and remorseless enemy on which his thoughts so ran , and put into its grasp a double handed sword . 
One child was gone , and one child left . 
Why was the object of his hope removed instead of her ? The sweet , calm , gentle presence in his fancy , moved him to no reflection but that . 
She had been unwelcome to him from the first she was an aggravation of his bitterness now . 
Her loving and innocent face rising before him , had no softening or winning influence . 
He rejected the angel , and took up with the tormenting spirit crouching in his bosom . 
Her patience , goodness , youth , devotion , love , were as so many atoms in the ashes upon which he set his heel . 
He saw her image in the blight and blackness all around him , not irradiating but deepening the gloom . 
'Dombey , said the Major , rapping him on the arm with his cane , 'don't be thoughtful . 
It's a bad habit , Old Joe , Sir , wouldn't be as tough as you see him , if he had ever encouraged it . 
You are too great a man , Dombey , to be thoughtful . 
In your position , Sir , you're far above that kind of thing . 
How he was suffocated with questions , Sir . 
How old Joe Bagstock was a greater man than ever , there , on the strength of Dombey . 
He not only rose next morning , however , like a giant refreshed , but conducted himself , at breakfast like a giant refreshing . 
At this meal they arranged their daily habits . 
The Major was to take the responsibility of ordering evrything to eat and drink and they were to have a late breakfast together every morning , and a late dinner together every day . 
So they parted until dinner time . 
Mr Dombey retired to nurse his wholesome thoughts in his own way . 
There never was a man who stood by a friend more staunchly than the Major , when in puffing him , he puffed himself . 
It was surprising how much new conversation the Major had to let off at dinner time , and what occasion he gave Mr Dombey to admire his social qualities . 
Although the lady was not young , she was very blooming in the face quite rosy and her dress and attitude were perfectly juvenile . 
'Why , what the devil have we here , Sir ! cried the Major , stopping as this little cavalcade drew near . 
With no less gallantry , the Major folded both his gloves upon his heart , and bowed low to the other lady . 
'Joe Bagstock , said the Major to both ladies , 'is a proud and happy man for the rest of his life . 
'You false creature ! said the old lady in the chair , insipidly . 
'Where do you come from ? I can't bear you . 
'Then suffer old Joe to present a friend , Ma'am , said the Major , promptly , 'as a reason for being tolerated . 
Mr Dombey , Mrs Skewton . 
The lady in the chair was gracious . 
'Mr Dombey , Mrs Granger . 
The lady with the parasol was faintly conscious of Mr Dombey's taking off his hat , and bowing low . 
'I am delighted , Sir , said the Major , 'to have this opportunity . 
The Major seemed in earnest , for he looked at all the three , and leered in his ugliest manner . 
'Mrs Skewton , Dombey , said the Major , 'makes havoc in the heart of old Josh . 
Mr Dombey signified that he didn't wonder at it . 
'You perfidious goblin , said the lady in the chair , 'have done ! How long have you been here , bad man ? 'One day , replied the Major . 
'My dear Edith , said the other , 'I cannot help it . 
Mrs Skewton was a beauty then , and bucks threw wine glasses over their heads by dozens in her honour . 
'Mr Dombey is devoted to Nature , I trust ? said Mrs Skewton , settling her diamond brooch . 
And by the way , she chiefly lived upon the reputation of some diamonds , and her family connexions . 
As Mr Dombey acknowledged the compliment with a bend of his head , the younger lady glancing at him , met his eyes . 
'You reside here , Madam ? said Mr Dombey , addressing her . 
'No , we have been to a great many places . 
To Harrogate and Scarborough , and into Devonshire . 
We have been visiting , and resting here and there . 
'Edith of course does not , said Mrs Skewton , with a ghastly archness . 
'I have not found that there is any change in such places , was the answer , delivered with supreme indifference . 
But seclusion and contemplation are my what his name 'If you mean Paradise , Mama , you had better say so , to render yourself intelligible , said the younger lady . 
'My dearest Edith , returned Mrs Skewton , 'you know that I am wholly dependent upon you for those odious names . 
I assure you , Mr Dombey , Nature intended me for an Arcadian . 
I am thrown away in society . 
What I have ever sighed for , has been to retreat to a Swiss farm , and live entirely surrounded by cows and china . 
'What I want , drawled Mrs Skewton , pinching her shrivelled throat , 'is heart . 
It was frightfully true in one sense , if not in that in which she used the phrase . 
'What I want , is frankness , confidence , less conventionality , and freer play of soul . 
We are so dreadfully artificial . 
'In short , said Mrs Skewton , 'I want Nature everywhere . 
It would be so extremely charming . 
'Nature is inviting us away now , Mama , if you are ready , said the younger lady , curling her handsome lip . 
At this hint , the wan page , who had been surveying the party over the top of the chair , vanished behind it , as if the ground had swallowed him up . 
'Where are you staying , abomination ? The Major was staying at the Royal Hotel , with his friend Dombey . 
'You may come and see us any evening when you are good , lisped Mrs Skewton . 
'If Mr Dombey will honour us , we shall be happy . 
The elder lady honoured them both with a very gracious smile and a girlish wave of her hand the younger lady with the very slightest inclination of her head that common courtesy allowed . 
'I tell you what , Sir , said the Major , as they resumed their walk again . 
'If Joe Bagstock were a younger man , there's not a woman in the world whom he'd prefer for Mrs Bagstock to that woman . 
By George , Sir ! said the Major , 'she's superb ! 'Do you mean the daughter ? inquired Mr Dombey . 
'Is Joey B. a turnip , Dombey , said the Major , 'that he should mean the mother ? 'You were complimentary to the mother , returned Mr Dombey . 
'An ancient flame , Sir , chuckled Major Bagstock . 
'She impresses me as being perfectly genteel , said Mr Dombey . 
'Genteel , Sir , said the Major , stopping short , and staring in his companion's face . 
'The Honourable Mrs Skewton , Sir , is sister to the late Lord Feenix , and aunt to the present Lord . 
'You addressed the daughter , I observed , said Mr Dombey , after a short pause , 'as Mrs Granger . 
Granger of Ours whom the Major indicated by another punch . 
He died , Sir , in the second year of his marriage . 
The Major ran the representative of the deceased Granger through and through the body with his walking stick , and went on again , carrying his stick over his shoulder . 
'How long is this ago ? asked Mr Dombey , making another halt . 
'Yes , Sir , said the Major . 
Mr Dombey's eyes sought the ground , and a shade came over his face . 
'Who was drowned , Sir , pursued the Major . 
'When a child of four or five years old . 
'Indeed ? said Mr Dombey , raising his head . 
'By the upsetting of a boat in which his nurse had no business to have put him , said the Major . 
Edith Granger is Edith Granger still but if tough old Joey B. , Sir , were a little younger and a little richer , the name of that immortal paragon should be Bagstock . 
The Major heaved his shoulders , and his cheeks , and laughed more like an over fed Mephistopheles than ever , as he said the words . 
'Provided the lady made no objection , I suppose ? said Mr Dombey coldly . 
'By Gad , Sir , said the Major , 'the Bagstock breed are not accustomed to that sort of obstacle . 
Though it's true enough that Edith might have married twenty times , but for being proud , Sir , proud . 
Mr Dombey seemed , by his face , to think no worse of her for that . 
'It's a great quality after all , said the Major . 
'By the Lord , it's a high quality ! Dombey ! You are proud yourself , and your friend , Old Joe , respects you for it , Sir . 
After meeting them thus , three or four times in all , it became a point of mere civility to old acquaintances that the Major should go there one evening . 
Mr Dombey had not originally intended to pay visits , but on the Major announcing this intention , he said he would have the pleasure of accompanying him . 
On their way upstairs they had heard the sound of a harp , but it had ceased on their being announced , and Edith now stood beside it handsomer and haughtier than ever . 
It was a remarkable characteristic of this lady's beauty that it appeared to vaunt and assert itself without her aid , and against her will . 
She knew that she was beautiful it was impossible that it could be otherwise but she seemed with her own pride to defy her very self . 
'I left off as I began of my own fancy . 
'We could be more natural I suppose if we tried ? said Mrs Skewton . 
Mr Dombey thought it possible . 
'Devil a bit , Ma'am , said the Major . 
Unless the world was peopled with J. B. 's tough and blunt old Joes , Ma'am , plain red herrings with hard roes , Sir we couldn't afford it . 
'You naughty Infidel , said Mrs Skewton , 'be mute . 
'Cleopatra commands , returned the Major , kissing his hand , 'and Antony Bagstock obeys . 
'The man has no sensitiveness , said Mrs Skewton , cruelly holding up the hand screen so as to shut the Major out . 
Withers the Wan , at this period , handing round the tea , Mr Dombey again addressed himself to Edith . 
'There is not much company here , it would seem ? said Mr Dombey , in his own portentous gentlemanly way . 
'Why really , observed Mrs Skewton fom her couch , 'there are no people here just now with whom we care to associate . 
'They have not enough heart , said Edith , with a smile . 
The very twilight of a smile so singularly were its light and darkness blended . 
'Wicked one ! 'You have been here before , if I am not mistaken ? said Mr Dombey . 
I think we have been everywhere . 
'A beautiful country ! 'I suppose it is . 
'Your cousin Feenix raves about it , Edith , interposed her mother from her couch . 
'I hope , for the credit of my good taste , that I am tired of the neighbourhood , she said . 
She gave him no reply , but sat in a disdainful beauty , quite amazing . 
'Have they that interest ? said Mr Dombey . 
'Are they yours ? 'Yes . 
'And you play , I already know . 
She answered all these questions with a strange reluctance and with that remarkable air of opposition to herself , already noticed as belonging to her beauty . 
Yet she was not embarrassed , but wholly self possessed . 
'You have many resources against weariness at least , said Mr Dombey . 
'Whatever their efficiency may be , she returned , 'you know them all now . 
'May I hope to prove them all ? said Mr Dombey , with solemn gallantry , laying down a drawing he had held , and motioning towards the harp . 
of a multitude of expressions , among which that of the twilight smile , without the smile itself , overshadowed all the rest , went out of the room . 
The Major , who was quite forgiven by this time , had wheeled a little table up to Cleopatra , and was sitting down to play picquet with her . 
Mr Dombey , not knowing the game , sat down to watch them for his edification until Edith should return . 
'We are going to have some music , Mr Dombey , I hope ? said Cleopatra . 
'Mrs Granger has been kind enough to promise so , said Mr Dombey . 
'Ah ! That's very nice . 
Do you propose , Major ? 'No , Ma'am , said the Major . 
'You're a barbarous being , replied the lady , 'and my hand's destroyed . 
You are fond of music , Mr Dombey ? 'Eminently so , was Mr Dombey's answer . 
It's very nice , said Cleopatra , looking at her cards . 
'So much heart in it undeveloped recollections of a previous state of existence' and all that which is so truly charming . 
Major , you to play . 
She came at last , and sat down to her harp , and Mr Dombey rose and stood beside her , listening . 
Cleopatra had a sharp eye , verily , at picquet . 
The post had come in heavy that morning , and Mr Carker the Manager had a good deal to do . 
The face of Mr Carker the Manager was in good keeping with such a fancy . 
The letters were in various languages , but Mr Carker the Manager read them all . 
If there had been anything in the offices of Dombey and Son that he could read , there would have been a card wanting in the pack . 
At length the letters were disposed of , excepting one which he reserved for a particular audience . 
Having locked the more confidential correspondence in a drawer , Mr Carker the Manager rang his bell . 
'Why do you answer it ? was his reception of his brother . 
'The messenger is out , and I am the next , was the submissive reply . 
'You are the next ? muttered the Manager . 
'I am sorry to trouble you , James , said the brother , gathering them up , 'but 'Oh ! you have something to say . 
Well ? Mr Carker the Manager did not raise his eyes or turn them on his brother , but kept them on his letter , though without opening it . 
'Well ? he repeated sharply . 
'I am uneasy about Harriet . 
'Harriet who ? what Harriet ? I know nobody of that name . 
'She is not well , and has changed very much of late . 
'She changed very much , a great many years ago , replied the Manager 'and that is all I have to say . 
'I tell you , Harriet Carker made her choice many years ago between her two brothers . 
She may repent it , but she must abide by it . 
I do not say she does repent it . 
It would be black ingratitude in me to hint at such a thing , returned the other . 
'Though believe me , James , I am as sorry for her sacrifice as you . 
'As I ? exclaimed the Manager . 
'As I ? 'As sorry for her choice for what you call her choice as you are angry at it , said the Junior . 
'Angry ? repeated the other , with a wide show of his teeth . 
Whatever word you like best . 
There is no offence in my intention . 
'There is offence in everything you do , replied his brother , glancing at him with a sudden scowl , which in a moment gave place to a wider smile than the last . 
'Carry those papers away , if you please . 
His politeness was so much more cutting than his wrath , that the Junior went to the door . 
I think if you could see her now if you would go and see her she would move your admiration and compassion . 
'We thought in those days you and I both that she would marry young , and lead a happy and light hearted life , pursued the other . 
Never ! Again the Manager inclined his head and showed his teeth , and seemed to say , 'Remarkable indeed ! You quite surprise me ! And again he uttered never a word . 
'May I go on ? said John Carker , mildly . 
'On your way ? replied his smiling brother . 
'If you will have the goodness . 
John Carker , with a sigh , was passing slowly out at the door , when his brother's voice detained him for a moment on the threshold . 
'I tell her nothing of you . 
We never speak about you . 
You can't repeat it too often , as a lesson to you to avoid the subject in speaking to me . 
I know no Harriet Carker . 
There is no such person . 
You may have a sister make much of her . 
Mr Carker the Manager took up the letter again , and waved it with a smile of mock courtesy towards the door . 
It was in the writing of his great chief , Mr Dombey , and dated from Leamington . 
When he had read it through once , he turned it over again , and picked out these passages . 
'I find myself benefited by the change , and am not yet inclined to name any time for my return . 
'I wish , Carker , you would arrange to come down once and see me here , and let me know how things are going on , in person . 
'I omitted to speak to you about young Gay . 
If not gone per Son and Heir , or if Son and Heir still lying in the Docks , appoint some other young man and keep him in the City for the present . 
'Now that's unfortunate ! said Mr Carker the Manager , expanding his mouth , as if it were made of India rubber 'for he's far away . 
Still that passage , which was in a postscript , attracted his attention and his teeth , once more . 
'I think , he said , 'my good friend Captain Cuttle mentioned something about being towed along in the wake of that day . 
'Who wants me ? 'Why , Sir , said Mr Perch , in a soft voice , 'really nobody , Sir , to speak of at present . 
Mr Perch coughed once behind his hand , and waited for further orders . 
'You said he wanted something to do , didn't you , Perch ? asked Mr Carker , leaning back in his chair and looking at that officer . 
'What does he say when he comes ? asked Mr Carker . 
'Let me see this fellow , Perch , said Mr Carker . 
'Bring him in ! 'Yes , Sir . 
Begging your pardon , Sir , said Mr Perch , hesitating at the door , 'he's rough , Sir , in appearance . 
If he's there , bring him in . 
I'll see Mr Gills directly . 
Mr Perch bowed and shutting the door , as precisely and carefully as if he were not coming back for a week , went on his quest among the sparrows in the court . 
The messenger was not long in returning , followed by a pair of heavy boots that came bumping along the passage like boxes . 
Obedient to a nod from Mr Carker , Perch had no sooner confronted the visitor with that gentleman than he withdrew . 
'What ! I have got you , have I ? There was no doubt of that , and tightly too . 
'I haven't done nothing to you , Sir , said Biler , otherwise Rob , otherwise Grinder , and always Toodle . 
'You young scoundrel ! replied Mr Carker , slowly releasing him , and moving back a step into his favourite position . 
'I'll never come again , Sir . 
'Work , young Cain that you are ! repeated Mr Carker , eyeing him narrowly . 
He stood looking at the gentleman , therefore , with a frightened , self convicted , and remorseful air . 
As to his looking at him , it may be observed that he was fascinated by Mr Carker , and never took his round eyes off him for an instant . 
'Ain't you a thief ? said Mr Carker , with his hands behind him in his pockets . 
'No , sir , pleaded Rob . 
'You are ! said Mr Carker . 
'I ain't indeed , Sir , whimpered Rob . 
'I never did such a thing as thieve , Sir , if you'll believe me . 
I know I've been a going wrong , Sir , ever since I took to bird catching' and walking matching . 
'I ain't been home twenty times since them birds got their will of me , said Rob , 'and that's ten months . 
'You're a nice young gentleman ! said Mr Carker , shaking his head at him . 
My misfortunes all began in wagging , Sir but what could I do , exceptin' wag ? 'Excepting what ? said Mr Carker . 
'Do you mean pretending to go there , and not going ? said Mr Carker . 
'Yes , Sir , that's wagging , Sir , returned the quondam Grinder , much affected . 
'I was chivied through the streets , Sir , when I went there , and pounded when I got there . 
So I wagged , and hid myself , and that began it . 
Mr Carker the Manager pushed him backward into a corner the boy submitting quietly , hardly venturing to breathe , and never once removing his eyes from his face and rang the bell . 
'Tell Mr Gills to come here . 
Mr Perch was too deferential to express surprise or recognition of the figure in the corner and Uncle Sol appeared immediately . 
'Mr Gills ! said Carker , with a smile , 'sit down . 
'Nothing ails me in body but old age . 
'The Son and Heir has not been spoken , I find by the list , Sir , said Uncle Sol , with a slight addition to the usual tremor in his voice . 
'The Son and Heir has not been spoken , returned Carker . 
'There seems to have been tempestuous weather , Mr Gills , and she has probably been driven out of her course . 
'She is safe , I trust in Heaven ! said old Sol . 
'She is safe , I trust in Heaven ! assented Mr Carker in that voiceless manner of his which made the observant young Toodle trernble again . 
'Will you give him house room , Mr Gills ? said the Manager . 
Mr Carker bared himself to the tops and bottoms of his gums making the watchful Toodle Junior tremble more and more and acknowledged the Instrument maker's politeness in his most affable manner . 
Goodbye ! His smile at parting was so full of teeth , that it confused old Sol , and made him vaguely uncomfortable . 
He went home , thinking of raging seas , foundering ships , drowning men , an ancient bottle of Madeira never brought to light , and other dismal matters . 
'Now , boy ! said Mr Carker , putting his hand on young Toodle's shoulder , and bringing him out into the middle of the room . 
'You have heard me ? Rob said , 'Yes , Sir . 
'If you have lied to me , said Mr Carker , 'in anything , never come in my way again . 
If not , you may let me find you waiting for me somewhere near your mother's house this afternoon . 
I shall leave this at five o'clock , and ride there on horseback . 
Now , give me the address . 
Rob repeated it slowly , as Mr Carker wrote it down . 
Rob even spelt it over a second time , letter by letter , as if he thought that the omission of a dot or scratch would lead to his destruction . 
Mr Carker then handed him out of the room and Rob , keeping his round eyes fixed upon his patron to the last , vanished for the time being . 
Mr Carker the Manager did a great deal of business in the course of the day , and stowed his teeth upon a great many people . 
In the office , in the court , in the street , and on 'Change , they glistened and bristled to a terrible extent . 
Five o'clock arriving , and with it Mr Carker's bay horse , they got on horseback , and went gleaming up Cheapside . 
Rob immediately did the same . 
Mr Carker presently tried a canter Rob Was still in attendance . 
Then a short gallop it Was all one to the boy . 
At this announcement , Polly , who had not cried yet , began to do so . 
The elder Toodles , who appeared to have been meditating a rescue , unclenched their fists . 
The younger Toodles clustered round their mother's gown , and peeped from under their own chubby arms at their desperado brother and his unknown friend . 
Everybody blessed the gentleman with the beautiful teeth , who wanted to do good . 
'A bad son , I am afraid ? said Mr Carker . 
'Never a bad son to me , Sir , returned Polly . 
'To whom then ? demanded Mr Carker . 
'Your husband , I take it , is not at home ? he said . 
'No , Sir , replied Polly . 
'He's down the line at present . 
'Then , said Mr Carker , 'I'll tell you how I have stumbled on this boy of yours , and who I am , and what I am going to do for him . 
That he had relented , in consideration of his youth , his professed contrition , and his friends . 
As that gentleman made his way among the crowding children to the door , Rob retreated on his mother , and took her and the baby in the same repentant hug . 
'I'll try hard , dear mother , now . 
Upon my soul I will ! said Rob . 
'Oh do , my dear boy ! I am sure you will , for our sakes and your own ! cried Polly , kissing him . 
'But you're coming back to speak to me , when you have seen the gentleman away ? 'I don't know , mother . 
Rob hesitated , and looked down . 
'Father when's he coming home ? 'Not till two o'clock to morrow morning . 
'I'll come back , mother dear ! cried Rob . 
And passing through the shrill cry of his brothers and sisters in reception of this promise , he followed Mr Carker out . 
'What ! said Mr Carker , who had heard this . 
'You have a bad father , have you ? 'No , Sir ! returned Rob , amazed . 
'There ain't a better nor a kinder father going , than mine is . 
'Why don't you want to see him then ? inquired his patron . 
'There's such a difference between a father and a mother , Sir , said Rob , after faltering for a moment . 
'Yes , Sir , returned Rob . 
Do you understand ? Rob nodded his steadfast face , and said 'Yes , Sir , again . 
There is a very young lady who may perhaps come to see him . 
I want particularly to know all about her . 
'I'll take care , Sir , said the boy . 
'To nobody in the world , Sir , replied Rob , shaking his head . 
'Neither there , said Mr CarHer , pointing to the place they had just left , 'nor anywhere else . 
I'll try how true and grateful you can be . 
To ensure his obedience , he turned in the saddle and watched him as he retired . 
Complacent and affable as man could be , Mr Carker picked his way along the streets and hummed a soft tune as he went He seemed to purr , he was so glad . 
And in some sort , Mr Carker , in his fancy , basked upon a hearth too . 
Was there any bird in a cage , that came in for a share ofhis regards ? 'A very young lady ! thought Mr Carker the Manager , through his song . 
'Ay ! when I saw her last , she was a little child . 
With dark eyes and hair , I recollect , and a good face a very good face ! I daresay she's pretty . 
But to explain why Mr Carker reined in his horse quickly , and what he looked at in no small surprise , a few digressive words are necessary . 
Under whose auspices Mr Toots could hardly fail to improve apace , and under whose tuition he went to work . 
There were husks in his corn , that even Game Chickens couldn't peck up gloomy giants in his leisure , that even Game Chickens couldn't knock down . 
Nothing seemed to do Mr Toots so much good as incessantly leaving cards at Mr Dombey's door . 
Mr Toots never went upstairs and always performed the same ceremonies , richly dressed for the purpose , at the hall door . 
'Oh ! Good morning ! would be Mr Toots's first remark to the servant . 
'For Mr Dombey , would be Mr Toots's next remark , as he handed in a card . 
'For Miss Dombey , would be his next , as he handed in another . 
Mr Toots would then turn round as if to go away but the man knew him by this time , and knew he wouldn't . 
'Oh , I beg your pardon , Mr Toots would say , as if a thought had suddenly descended on him . 
'Is the young woman at home ? The man would rather think she was , but wouldn't quite know . 
Then he would ring a bell that rang upstairs , and would look up the staircase , and would say , yes , she was at home , and was coming down . 
Then Miss Nipper would appear , and the man would retire . 
'Oh ! How de do ? Mr Toots would say , with a chuckle and a blush . 
Susan would thank him , and say she was very well . 
'How's Diogenes going on ? would be Mr Toots's second interrogation . 
Miss Florence was fonder and fonder of him every day . 
Mr Toots was sure to hail this with a burst of chuckles , like the opening of a bottle of some effervescent beverage . 
'Miss Florence is quite well , Sir , Susan would add . 
Oh , it's of no consequence , thank'ee , was the invariable reply of Mr Toots and when he had said so , he always went away very fast . 
It is certain that Mr Toots , by some remote and roundabout road , had got to that point , and that there he made a stand . 
His heart was wounded he was touched he was in love . 
A little light and playful gallantry towards this lady seemed the means to employ in that early chapter of the history , for winning her to his interests . 
Upon the next day , therefore , Mr Toots , putting into requisition some of the greatest marvels that Burgess and Co . 
had ever turned out , went off to Mr Dotnbey's upon this design . 
Everything happened as usual , down to the point where Susan said her young mistress was well , and Mr Toots said it was ofno consequence . 
To her amazement , Mr Toots , instead of going off , like a rocket , after that observation , lingered and chuckled . 
'Perhaps you'd like to walk upstairs , Sir ! said Susan . 
'Well , I think I will come in ! said Mr Toots . 
'Just another ! said Mr Toots . 
'If the dog's teeth have entered the leg , Sir began Carker , with a display of his own' 'No , thank you , said Mr Toots , 'it's all quite right . 
It's very comfortable , thank you . 
'I have the pleasure of knowing Mr Dombey , observed Carker . 
Noise ceased to be , within the shadow of the roof . 
The spell upon it was more wasting than the spell that used to set enchanted houses sleeping once upon a time , but left their waking freshness unimpaired . 
The passive desolation of disuse was everywhere silently manifest about it . 
Within doors , curtains , drooping heavily , lost their old folds and shapes , and hung like cumbrous palls . 
Hecatombs of furniture , still piled and covered up , shrunk like imprisoned and forgotten men , and changed insensibly . 
Mirrors were dim as with the breath of years . 
Patterns of carpets faded and became perplexed and faint , like the memory of those years' trifling incidents . 
Boards , starting at unwonted footsteps , creaked and shook . 
Keys rusted in the locks of doors . 
Damp started on the walls , and as the stains came out , the pictures seemed to go in and secrete themselves . 
Mildew and mould began to lurk in closets . 
Fungus trees grew in corners of the cellars . 
Dust accumulated , nobody knew whence nor how spiders , moths , and grubs were heard of every day . 
An exploratory blackbeetle now and then was found immovable upon the stairs , or in an upper room , as wondering how he got there . 
Rats began to squeak and scuffle in the night time , through dark galleries they mined behind the panelling . 
The dreary magnificence of the state rooms , seen imperfectly by the doubtful light admitted through closed shutters , would have answered well enough for an enchanted abode . 
But , besides , there was the great staircase , where the lord of the place so rarely set his foot , and by which his little child had gone up to Heaven . 
A scaly crumbling vegetation sprouted round the window sills . 
Fragments of mortar lost their hold upon the insides of the unused chimneys , and came dropping down . 
But Florence bloomed there , like the king's fair daughter in the story . 
So Florence lived in her wilderness of a home , within the circle of her innocent pursuits and thoughts , and nothing harmed her . 
She could go down to her father's rooms now , and think of him , and suffer her loving heart humbly to approach him , without fear of repulse . 
She could look upon the objects that had surrounded him in his sorrow , and could nestle near his chair , and not dread the glance that she so well remembered . 
At another time , she would only lay her face upon his desk , and leave a kiss there , and a tear . 
Still no one knew of this . 
Florence stole into those rooms at twilight , early in the morning , and at times when meals were served downstairs . 
Shadowy company attended Florence up and down the echoing house , and sat with her in the dismantled rooms . 
As if her life were an enchanted vision , there arose out of her solitude ministering thoughts , that made it fanciful and unreal . 
At other times she pictured to herself her mother yet alive . 
Her father did not know she held to it from that time how much she loved him . 
She was very young , and had no mother , and had never learned , by some fault or misfortune , how to express to him that she loved him . 
She would be patient , and would try to gain that art in time , and win him to a better knowledge of his only child . 
This became the purpose of her life . 
Sometimes she wondered , with a swelling heart and rising tear , whether she was proficient enough in anything to surprise him when they should become companions . 
Sometimes she tried to think if there were any kind of knowledge that would bespeak his interest more readily than another . 
Always at her books , her music , and her work in her morning walks , and in her nightly prayers she had her engrossing aim in view . 
Susan Nipper stood opposite to her young mistress one morning , as she folded and sealed a note she had been writing and showed in her looks an approving knowledge of its contents . 
'Better late than never , dear Miss Floy , said Susan , 'and I do say , that even a visit to them old Skettleses will be a Godsend . 
I think it will be better . 
'Much better , interposed Susan , with another emphatic shake of her head . 
But she never explained it and it had , in consequence , the charm of mystery , in addition to the advantage of the sharpest expression . 
'How long it is before we have any news of Walter , Susan ! observed Florence , after a moment's silence . 
'Long indeed , Miss Floy ! replied her maid . 
'And Perch said , when he came just now to see for letters but what signifies what he says ! exclaimed Susan , reddening and breaking off . 
'Much he knows about it ! Florence raised her eyes quickly , and a flush overspread her face . 
'Why , nothing , Miss , said Susan . 
'What else does he say , Susan ? inquired Florence , earnestly . 
'Won't you tell me ? 'As if I wouldn't tell you anything , Miss Floy , and everything ! said Susan . 
'I must visit Walter's uncle , said Florence , hurriedly , 'before I leave home . 
I will go and see him this morning . 
Let us walk there , directly , Susan . 
Miss Nipper having nothing to urge against the proposal , but being perfectly acquiescent , they were soon equipped , and in the streets , and on their way towards the little Midshipman . 
For the rest , uncertainty and danger seemed written upon everything . 
When Florence came into the City , and passed gentlemen who were talking together , she dreaded to hear them speaking of the ship , an'd saying it was lost . 
Pictures and prints of vessels fighting with the rolling waves filled her with alarm . 
The smoke and clouds , though moving gently , moved too fast for her apprehensions , and made her fear there was a tempest blowing at that moment on the ocean . 
'I don't know where he's gone , said Rob . 
'Is that your penitence ? cried Susan , with stinging sharpness . 
'Why how can I go and fetch him when I don't know where to go ? whimpered the baited Rob . 
'How can you be so unreasonable ? 'Did Mr Gills say when he should be home ? asked Florence . 
'Yes , Miss , replied Rob , with another application of his knuckles to his hair . 
'He said he should be home early in the afternoon in about a couple of hours from now , Miss . 
'Is he very anxious about his nephew ? inquired Susan . 
'Yes , Miss , returned Rob , preferring to address himself to Florence and slighting Nipper 'I should say he was , very much so . 
He ain't indoors , Miss , not a quarter of an hour together . 
He can't settle in one place five minutes . 
'Do you know a friend of Mr Gills , called Captain Cuttle ? inquired Florence , after a moment's reflection . 
'Him with a hook , Miss ? rejoined Rob , with an illustrative twist of his left hand . 
He was here the day before yesterday . 
'Has he not been here since ? asked Susan . 
'No , Miss , returned Rob , still addressing his reply to Florence . 
'Perhaps Walter's Uncle has gone there , Susan , observed Florence , turning to her . 
'To Captain Cuttle's , Miss ? interposed Rob 'no , he's not gone there , Miss . 
Rob replied in the affirmative , and turning to a greasy parchment book on the shop desk , read the address aloud . 
Florence again turned to her maid and took counsel with her in a low voice , while Rob the round eyed , mindful of his patron's secret charge , looked on and listened . 
Susan at first objected slightly , on the score of distance but a hackney coach being mentioned by her mistress , withdrew that opposition , and gave in her assent . 
Alighting here , Florence and Susan Nipper walked down the street , and sought out the abode of Captain Cuttle . 
It happened by evil chance to be one of Mrs MacStinger's great cleaning days . 
On these occasions , Mrs MacStinger was knocked up by the policeman at a quarter before three in the morning , and rarely such before twelve o'clock next night . 
The feelings of Mrs MacStinger , as a woman and a mother , were outraged by the look of pity for Alexander which she observed on Florence's face . 
'I beg your pardon , Ma'am , said Florence , when the child had found his breath again , and was using it . 
'Is this Captain Cuttle's house ? 'No , said Mrs MacStinger . 
'Not Number Nine ? asked Florence , hesitating . 
'Who said it wasn't Number Nine ? said Mrs MacStinger . 
Susan Nipper instantly struck in , and begged to inquire what Mrs MacStinger meant by that , and if she knew whom she was talking to . 
Mrs MacStinger in retort , looked at her all over . 
'What do you want with Captain Cuttle , I should wish to know ? said Mrs MacStinger . 
'Should you ? Then I'm sorry that you won't be satisfied , returned Miss Nipper . 
'Hush , Susan ! If you please ! said Florence . 
'Perhaps you can have the goodness to tell us where Captain Cutlle lives , Ma'am as he don't live here . 
'Who says he don't live here ? retorted the implacable MacStinger . 
But when the Captain , directing his forlorn visage towards the door , saw Florence appear with her maid , no words can describe his astonishment . 
Instantly recovering his self possession , however , the Captain's first care was to place her on dry land , which he happily accomplished , with one motion of his arm . 
Issuing forth , then , upon the main , Captain Cuttle took Miss Nipper round the waist , and bore her to the island also . 
, beamed on her from the soap and water like a new description of Triton . 
'You are amazed to see us , I am sure , 'said Florence , with a smile . 
could not take his eyes while she , in her turn , looked earnestly at him , to be assured of the sincerity of his reply . 
'No , Heart's delight , said Captain Cuttle , 'I am not afeard . 
Wal'r is a lad as'll go through a deal o' hard weather . 
Wal'r is a lad as'll bring as much success to that 'ere brig as a lad is capable on . 
Florence , who did not quite understand this , though the Captain evidentllty thought it full of meaning , and highly satisfactory , mildly looked to him for something more . 
Here we have 'em both ways , which is bringing it up with a round turn , and so I ain't a bit afeard as yet . 
'As yet ? repeated Florence . 
'Will you go with us now ? We have a coach here . 
Again the Captain clapped his hand to his head , on which the hard glazed hat was not , and looked discomfited . 
But at this instant a most remarkable phenomenon occurred . 
The door then shut as violently as it had opened , and nothIng ensued in explanation of the prodigy . 
That's the long and short ofthe subject . 
'Who did , for goodness sake ? asked Susan Nipper . 
'The lady of the house , my dear , 'returned the Captain , in a gruff whisper , and making signals of secrecy . 
'Oh ! I wish she had me to deal with ! said Susan , reddening with the energy of the wish . 
She's very hard to carry on with , my dear . 
You never can tell how she'll head , you see . 
She's full one minute , and round upon you next . 
And when she in a tartar , said the Captain , with the perspiration breaking out upon his forehead . 
There was nothing but a whistle emphatic enough for the conclusion of the sentence , so the Captain whistled tremulously . 
with her gangway removed , and half a dozen feet of river interposed between herself and her nearest neighbour . 
'Clara a hoy ! cried the Captain , putting a hand to each side of his mouth . 
'A hoy ! cried a boy , like the Captain's echo , tumbling up from below . 
'Bunsby aboard ? cried the Captain , hailing the boy in a stentorian voice , as if he were half a mile off instead of two yards . 
'Ay , ay ! cried the boy , in the same tone . 
The boy then shoved out a plank to Captain Cuttle , who adjusted it carefully , and led Florence across returning presently for Miss Nipper . 
So they stood upon the deck of the Cautious Clara , in whose standing rigging , divers fluttering articles of dress were curing , in company with a few tongues and some mackerel . 
'Bunsby , said the Captain , striking home at once , 'here you are a man of mind , and a man as can give an opinion . 
with his pilot coated arm , like a blue bear . 
, uniformily preserved his gravity of deportment , and showed no other consciousness of her or anything . 
Uncle Sol , who had come home , received them at the door , and ushered them immediately into the little back parlour strangely altered by the absence of Walter . 
'You have been to see me ? said Florence . 
'To day ? 'Yes , my dear young lady , returned Uncle Sol , looking at her and away from her in a confused manner . 
'I wished to see you with my own eyes , and to hear you with my own ears , once more before There he stopped . 
'Before when ? Before what ? said Florence , putting her hand upon his arm . 
'Did I say before ? replied old Sol . 
'If I did , I must have meant before we should have news of my dear boy . 
'You are not well , said Florence , tenderly . 
'You have been so very anxious I am sure you are not well . 
Is its master not as capable of resolution and fortitude as many a younger man ? I think so . 
'Hear him ! 'And what I says , pursued the voice , after some deliberation , 'I stands to . 
The Captain , with Florence on his arm , nodded at the auditory , and seemed to say , 'Now he's coming out . 
This is what I meant when I brought him . 
It then proceeded very slowly , thus 'Do I believe that this here Son and Heir's gone down , my lads ? Mayhap . 
Do I say so ? Which ? If a skipper stands out by Sen' George's Channel , making for the Downs , what's right ahead of him ? The Goodwins . 
He isn't foroed to run upon the Goodwins , but he may . 
The bearings of this observation lays in the application on it . 
That ain't no part of my duty . 
It was in pursuance of a whisper in his ear from Florence , while the old man was absorbed in this pursuit , that Captain Cuttle laid his heavy hand upon his shoulder . 
'What cheer , Sol Gills ? cried the Captain , heartily . 
'But so so , Ned , returned the Instrument maker . 
'Stand by , old friend ! cried the Captain . 
You'll come and eat your dinner along with me , Sol , somewheres or another . 
'Not to day , Ned ! said the old man quickly , and appearing to be unaccountably startled by the proposition . 
I couldn't do it ! 'Why not ? returned the Captain , gazing at him in astonishment . 
'I I have so much to do . 
I I mean to think of , and arrange . 
I couldn't do it , Ned , indeed . 
I must go out again , and be alone , and turn my mind to many things to day . 
The Captain looked at the Instrument maker , and looked at Florence , and again at the Instrument maker . 
'To morrow , then , he suggested , at last . 
To morrow , said the old man . 
'Think of me to morrow . 
'I shall come here early , mind , Sol Gills , stipulated the Captain . 
Reassured by the tranquillity that reigned within the precincts of the wooden mariner , the Captain headed for Brig Place , resolving to weigh anchor betimes in the morning . 
Sir Barnet's object in life was constantly to extend the range of his acquaintance . 
Sir Barnet was proud of making people acquainted with people . 
He liked the thing for its own sake , and it advanced his favourite object too . 
and so killed a brace of birds with one stone , dead as door nails . 
With the snuff box and banner in full force , Sir Barnet Skettles propounded his usual inquiry to Florence on the first morning of her visit . 
When Florence thanked him , and said there was no one in particular whom she desired to see , it was natural she should think with a pang , of poor lost Walter . 
'Is there anybody you can suggest now , Doctor Blimber ? said Sir Barnet Skettles , turning to that gentleman . 
'You are very kind , Sir Barnet , returned Doctor Blimber . 
'Really I am not aware that there is , in particular . 
I like to know my fellow men in general , Sir Barnet . 
What does Terence say ? Anyone who is the parent of a son is interesting to me . 
'Has Mrs Blimber any wish to see any remarkable person ? asked Sir Barnet , courteously . 
Sir Barnet was fain , under these circumstances , to content himself for the time with the company assembled . 
There were some children staying in the house . 
Children who were as frank and happy with fathers and with mothers as those rosy faces opposite home . 
Children who had no restraint upon their love . 
Many a day did Florence thoughtfully observe these children . 
They had no repulse to overcome , no coldness to dread , no frown to smooth away . 
She could not begin by being so bold . 
to hear her sing of an evening , and would always sit near her at that time , with motherly interest . 
'Is Florence an orphan like me , aunt ? said the child . 
She has no mother , but her father is living . 
'Is she in mourning for her poor Mama , now ? inquired the child quickly . 
'No for her only brother . 
'Has she no other brother ? 'None . 
'Florence is a favourite with everyone here , and deserves to be , I am sure , said the child , earnestly . 
'Where is her Papa ? The aunt replied , after a moment's pause , that she did not know . 
'He is in England , I hope , aunt ? said the child . 
Yes I know he is , indeed . 
'Has he ever been here ? 'I believe not . 
No. 'Is he coming here to see her ? 'I believe not . 
'Is he lame , or blind , or ill , aunt ? asked the child . 
Tell no one else , my dear , because it may be little known here , and your doing so would give her pain . 
'I never will ! exclaimed the child . 
'I know you never will , returned the lady . 
'I can trust you as myself . 
More of the flowers that Florence held fell scattering on the ground those that remained were wet , but not with dew and her face dropped upon her laden hands . 
'Poor Florence ! Dear , good Florence ! cried the child . 
'Do you know why I have told you this , Kate ? said the lady . 
'That I may be very kind to her , and take great care to try to please her . 
Is that the reason , aunt ? 'Partly , said the lady , 'but not all . 
Poor Florence ! More flowers strayed upon the ground , and those she yet held to her breast trembled as if a wintry wind were rustling them . 
'As other children have , dear Kate , of reminding her of her misfortune . 
'But I am not without a parent's love , aunt , and I never have been , said the child , 'with you . 
The flowers were scattered on the ground like dust the empty hands were spread upon the face and orphaned Florence , shrinking down upon the ground , wept long and bitterly . 
But true of heart and resolute in her good purpose , Florence held to it as her dying mother held by her upon the day that gave Paul life . 
He did not know how much she loved him . 
However long the time in coming , and however slow the interval , she must try to bring that knowledge to her father's heart one day or other . 
from among the rest , she would confirm in one mind certainly perhaps in more the belief that he was cruel and unnatural . 
So with any trifle of an interlude that was acted , or picture that was shown , or game that was played , among them . 
But still she found them all too far advanced to learn from . 
They had won their household places long ago , and did not stand without , as she did , with a bar across the door . 
Whatever the man's labour , the girl was never employed but sat , when she was with him , in a listless , moping state , and idle . 
Florence had often wished to speak to this man yet she had never taken courage to do so , as he made no movement towards her . 
'Good morning , said Florence , approaching nearer , 'you are at work early . 
'I'd be glad to be often at work earlier , Miss , if I had work to do . 
'Is it so hard to get ? asked Florence . 
'I find it so , replied the man . 
'Is she in want of employment also ? said Florence . 
The man shook his head . 
'No , Miss , he said . 
'I work for both , 'Are there only you two , then ? inquired Florence . 
'Only us two , said the man . 
'Her mother his been dead these ten year . 
'More than that , you say , do you ? cried the other , pushing back his battered hat , and drawing his hand across his forehead . 
It seems a long , long time . 
Florence could feel who better ? how truly he spoke . 
'Who would favour my poor girl to call it favouring if I didn't ? said the father . 
'Ay , ay , cried the neighbour . 
But you ! You rob yourself to give to her . 
You bind yourself hand and foot on her account . 
You make your life miserable along of her . 
And what does she care ! You don't believe she knows it ? The father lifted up his head again , and whistled to her . 
Martha made the same impatient gesture with her crouching shoulders , in reply and he was glad and happy . 
Florence softly put some money near his hand on the old boat , and left him . 
Florence readily consenting , Lady Skettles ordered out young Barnet as a matter of course . 
For nothing delighted Lady Skettles so much , as beholding her eldest son with Florence on his arm . 
The gentleman had looked particularly at Florence and when the little party stopped , on his riding back , he bowed to her , before saluting Sir Barnet and his lady . 
Florence had no remembrance of having ever seen him , but she started involuntarily when he came near her , and drew back . 
'My horse is perfectly quiet , I assure you , said the gentleman . 
It was not that , but something in the gentleman himself Florence could not have said what that made her recoil as if she had been stung . 
'I have the honour to address Miss Dombey , I believe ? said the gentleman , with a most persuasive smile . 
On Florence inclining her head , he added , 'My name is Carker . 
I can hardly hope to be remembered by Miss Dombey , except by name . 
Florence , sensible of a strange inclination to shiver , though the day was hot , presented him to her host and hostess by whom he was very graciously received . 
'Nothing to send , Miss Dombey ? said the man of teeth . 
'Nothing , said Florence , 'but my but my dear love if you please . 
Florence was seized with such a shudder as he went , that Sir Barnet , adopting the popular superstition , supposed somebody was passing over her grave . 
Mr Carker turning a corner , on the instant , looked back , and bowed , and disappeared , as if he rode off to the churchyard straight , to do it . 
'Holloa ! roared the Captain . 
'What's the matter ? Before Rob could stammer a word in answer , Captain Cuttle turned out , all in a heap , and covered the boy's mouth with his hand . 
'Do you mean , tell you , Captain ? asked Rob , who had been greatly impressed by these precautions 'Ay ! said the Captain . 
'Well , Sir , said Rob , 'I ain't got much to tell . 
But look here ! Rob produced a bundle of keys . 
The Captain surveyed them , remained in his corner , and surveyed the messenger . 
'And look here ! pursued Rob . 
The boy produced a sealed packet , which Captain Cuttle stared at as he had stared at the keys . 
'When I woke this morning , Captain , said Rob , 'which was about a quarter after five , I found these on my pillow . 
The shop door was unbolted and unlocked , and Mr Gills gone . 
'Gone ! roared the Captain . 
'Flowed , Sir , returned Rob . 
For Captain Cuttle , Sir , cried Rob , 'is on the keys , and on the packet too . 
Upon my word and honour , Captain Cuttle , I don't know anything more about it . 
Taking the proffered packet from his hand , the Captain opened it and read as follows 'My dear Ned Cuttle . 
Enclosed is my will ! The Captain turned it over , with a doubtful look 'and Testament Where's the Testament ? said the Captain , instantly impeaching the ill fated Grinder . 
'What have you done with that , my lad ? 'I never see it , whimpered Rob . 
'Don't keep on suspecting an innocent lad , Captain . 
I never touched the Testament . 
The Captain paused and shook his head in some emotion then , as a re establishment of his dignity in this trying position , looked with exceeding sternness at the Grinder . 
There are no debts , the loan from Dombey's House is paid off and all my keys I send with this . 
Keep this quiet , and make no inquiry for me it is useless . 
So no more , dear Ned , from your true friend , Solomon Gills . 
The Captain took a long breath , and then read these words written below The boy Rob , well recommended , as I told you , from Dombey's House . 
If all else should come to the hammer , take care , Ned , of the little Midshipman . 
'Oh , don't , Captain ! cried the Grinder . 
'I wonder how you can ! what have I done to be looked at , like that ? 'My lad , said Captain Cuttle , 'don't you sing out afore you're hurt . 
And don't you commit yourself , whatever you do . 
'I haven't been and committed nothing , Captain ! answered Rob . 
'Keep her free , then , said the Captain , impressively , 'and ride easy . 
However , he made none , and consequently got to the Instrument maker's house without being placed under any more stringent restraint . 
When all this had been done several times , the Captain shook his head and seemed to think the matter had a bad look . 
'Ay ! said the Captain , mysteriously . 
'Why so , my lad ? 'Why , returned Rob , looking about , 'I don't see his shaving tackle . 
Nor his brushes , Captain . 
But Rob had no occasion to shave , was not brushed , and wore the clothes he had on for a long time past , beyond all possibility of a mistake . 
'What o'clock was that ? said the Captain , prepared to be very particular about the exact time . 
'How can I tell , Captain ! answered Rob . 
Not a station house , or bone house , or work house in the metropolis escaped a visitation from the hard glazed hat . 
It is a sure thing that it never was , and that the good Captain had no other satisfaction . 
Captain Cuttle at last abandoned these attempts as hopeless , and set himself to consider what was to be done next . 
After several new perusals of his poor friend's letter , he considered that the maintenance of' a home in the old place for Walter' was the primary duty imposed upon him . 
But you keep watch till you hear me knock , and the moment you do , turn to , and open the door . 
'Very good , Captain , said Rob . 
But the moment you hear me knock to morrow night , whatever time it is , turn to and show yourself smart with the door . 
'I'll be sure to do it , Captain , replied Rob . 
Rob again assured the Captain that he would be prompt and wakeful and the Captain having made this prudent arrangement , went home to Mrs MacStinger's for the last time . 
'A nice small kidney pudding now , Cap'en Cuttle , said his landlady 'or a sheep's heart . 
'No thank'ee , Ma'am , returned the Captain . 
'Have a roast fowl , said Mrs MacStinger , 'with a bit of weal stuffing and some egg sauce . 
Come , Cap'en Cuttle ! Give yourself a little treat ! 'No thank'ee , Ma'am , returned the Captain very humbly . 
'I'm sure you're out of sorts , and want to be stimulated , said Mrs MacStinger . 
The Captain was frightened to dead 'If you would Ma'am , he said with submission , 'it would oblige me . 
I can't keep my money very well . 
I should take it kind if you'd comply . 
'Well , Cap'en Cuttle , said the unconscious MacStinger , rubbing her hands , 'you can do as you please . 
At length the Captain sorrowfully dismissed them taking leave of these cherubs with the poignant remorse and grief of a man who was going to execution . 
Of his lighter necessaries , the Captain made a bundle and disposed his plate about his person , ready for flight . 
It opened when he knocked for Rob was on the watch and when it was bolted and locked behind him , Captain Cuttle felt comparatively safe . 
'Whew ! cried the Captain , looking round him . 
'It's a breather ! 'Nothing the matter , is there , Captain ? cried the gaping Rob . 
'No , no ! said Captain Cuttle , after changing colour , and listening to a passing footstep in the street . 
The advantage of this fortification is obvious . 
On a bonnet appearing , the Captain instantly slipped into his garrison , locked himself up , and took a secret observation of the enemy . 
Finding it a false alarm , the Captain instantly slipped out again . 
And the bonnets in the street were so very numerous , and alarms were so inseparable from their appearance , that the Captain was almost incessantly slipping in and out all day long . 
that too much friction could not be bestowed upon it , and that it could not be made too bright . 
Florence , the Captain waited on , with his strange news of Uncle Sol , immediately after taking possession of the Midshipman but she was away from home . 
Shadows of the Past and Future 'Your most obedient , Sir , said the Major . 
'Major Bagstock has rendered me great service , Carker . 
He strengthens and invigorates a man , Sir , does Dombey , in his moral nature . 
Mr Carker snapped at the expression . 
The very words he had been on the point of suggesting . 
'But when my friend Dombey , Sir , added the Major , 'talks to you of Major Bagstock , I must crave leave to set him and you right . 
He means plain Joe , Sir Joey B. Josh . 
Bagstock Joseph rough and tough Old J. , Sir . 
Mr Carker's excessively friendly inclinations towards the Major , and Mr Carker's admiration of his roughness , toughness , and plainness , gleamed out of every tooth in Mr Carker's head . 
'And now , Sir , said the Major , 'you and Dombey have the devil's own amount of business to talk over . 
'By no means , Major , observed Mr Dombey . 
'Dombey , said the Major , defiantly , 'I know better a man of your mark the Colossus of commerce is not to be interrupted . 
We shall meet at dinner time . 
In the interval , old Joseph will be scarce . 
The dinner hour is a sharp seven , Mr Carker . 
With that , the Major , greatly swollen as to his face , withdrew but immediately putting in his head at the door again , said 'I beg your pardon . 
'By the Lord , Sir , said the Major , 'you must make it something warmer than that , or old Joe will be far from welcome . 
'Regards then , if you will , Major , returned Mr Dombey . 
'Damme , Sir , said the Major , shaking his shoulders and his great cheeks jocularly 'make it something warmer than that . 
'What you please , then , Major , observed Mr Dombey . 
'Our friend is sly , Sir , sly , Sir , de vilish sly , said the Major , staring round the door at Carker . 
God bless you ! and withdrew . 
'You must have found the gentleman a great resource , said Carker , following him with his teeth . 
'Very great indeed , said Mr Dombey . 
'He has friends here , no doubt , pursued Carker . 
'I perceive , from what he has said , that you go into society here . 
'You were formed for society , said Carker . 
'Of all the men I know , you are the best adapted , by nature and by position , for society . 
Do you know I have been frequently amazed that you should have held it at arm's length so long ! 'I have had my reasons , Carker . 
I have been alone , and indifferent to it . 
But you have great social qualifications yourself , and are the more likely to have been surprised . 
'Oh ! I ! returned the other , with ready self disparagement . 
'It's quite another matter in the case of a man like me . 
I don't come into comparison with you . 
Mr Dombey put his hand to his neckcloth , settled his chin in it , coughed , and stood looking at his faithful friend and servant for a few moments in silence . 
'Ladies among them , I presume ? insinuated the smooth Manager . 
'They are all that is to say , they are both ladies , replied Mr Dombey . 
'Only two ? smiled Carker . 
I have confined my visits to their residence , and have made no other acquaintance here . 
'Sisters , perhaps ? quoth Carker . 
'Mother and daughter , replied Mr Dombey . 
As Mr Dombey raised his eyes , it changed back , no less quickly , to its old expression , and showed him every gum of which it stood possessed . 
'You are very kind , said Carker , 'I shall be delighted to know them . 
Speaking of daughters , I have seen Miss Dombey . 
There was a sudden rush of blood to Mr Dombey's face . 
'I took the liberty of waiting on her , said Carker , 'to inquire if she could charge me with any little commission . 
I am not so fortunate as to be the bearer of any but her but her dear love . 
'There is very little , returned Carker . 
'Upon the whole we have not had our usual good fortune of late , but that is of little moment to you . 
At Lloyd's , they give up the Son and Heir for lost . 
Well , she was insured , from her keel to her masthead . 
'Carker , said Mr Dombey , taking a chair near him , 'I cannot say that young man , Gay , ever impressed me favourably 'Nor me , interposed the Manager . 
'But I wish , said Mr Dombey , without heeding the interruption , 'he had never gone on board that ship . 
I wish he had never been sent out . 
'It is a pity you didn't say so , in good time , is it not ? retorted Carker , coolly . 
'However , I think it's all for the best . 
I really , think it's all for the best . 
Did I mention that there was something like a little confidence between Miss Dombey and myself ? 'No , said Mr Dombey , sternly . 
'I have no doubt , returned Mr Carker , after an impressive pause , 'that wherever Gay is , he is much better where he is , than at home here . 
If I were , or could be , in your place , I should be satisfied of that . 
I am quite satisfied of it myself . 
Miss Dombey is confiding and young perhaps hardly proud enough , for your daughter if she have a fault . 
Not that that is much though , I am sure . 
The Manager , with his eyelids slightly raised , affected to be glancing at his figures , and to await the leisure of his principal . 
It was his way in business , often . 
Whenever he did so , Mr Carker was demonstrative , as before , in his delicacy , and impressed it on his great chief more and more . 
'What insupportable creature is this , coming in ? said Mrs Skewton , 'I cannot hear it . 
'Oh it's you , is it ? On second thoughts , you may enter , observed Cleopatra . 
The Major entered accordingly , and advancing to the sofa pressed her charming hand to his lips . 
'Sit down , said Cleopatra , listlessly waving her fan , 'a long way off . 
Don't come too near me , for I am frightfully faint and sensitive this morning , and you smell of the Sun . 
A man never heard of Bagstock , Ma'am , in those days he heard of the Flower the Flower of Ours . 
'Where is Mrs Granger ? inquired Cleopatra of her page . 
Withers believed she was in her own room . 
'Very well , said Mrs Skewton . 
'Go away , and shut the door . 
As Withers disappeared , Mrs Skewton turned her head languidly towards the Major , without otherwise moving , and asked him how his friend was . 
'Dombey , Ma'am , returned the Major , with a facetious gurgling in his throat , 'is as well as a man in his condition can be . 
His condition is a desperate one , Ma'am . 
He is touched , is Dombey ! Touched ! cried the Major . 
'He is bayonetted through the body . 
'Bluntness , Ma'am , returned the Major , 'has ever been the characteristic of the Bagstock breed . 
The Major laid his hand upon his lips , and wafted a kiss to Cleopatra , as if to identify the emotion in question . 
'I feel that I am weak . 
I acknowledge let me be open that it is my failing to be the creature of impulse , and to wear my heart as it were , outside . 
I know my failing full well . 
My enemy cannot know it better . 
But I am not penitent I would rather not be frozen by the heartless world , and am content to bear this imputation justly . 
Mrs Skewton arranged her tucker , pinched her wiry throat to give it a soft surface , and went on , with great complacency . 
infinite pleasure to receive Mr Dombey . 
'There is devilish little heart in Dombey now , Ma'am , said the Major . 
'Wretched man ! cried Mrs Skewton , looking at him languidly , 'pray be silent . 
B. is dumb , Ma'am , said the Major . 
Little did I think of the awful responsibility into which I plunged when I encouraged Mr Dombey to 'To beat up these quarters , Ma'am , suggested Major Bagstock . 
'Coarse person ! 'said Mrs Skewton , 'you anticipate my meaning , though in odious language . 
'The agony I have endured , she said mincingly , 'as the truth has by degrees dawned upon me , has been too exceedingly terrific to dilate upon . 
Mrs Skewton's world was not a very trying one , if one might judge of it by the influence of its most affecting circumstance upon her but this by the way . 
'Edith , simpered Mrs Skewton , 'who is the perfect pearl of my life , is said to resemble me . 
I believe we are alike . 
'There is one man in the world who never will admit that anyone resembles you , Ma'am , said the Major 'and that man's name is Old Joe Bagstock . 
She has great force of character mine has been said to be immense , though I don't believe it but once moved , she is susceptible and sensitive to the last extent . 
What are my feelings when I see her pining ! They destroy me . 
The Major advancing his double chin , and pursing up his blue lips into a soothing expression , affected the profoundest sympathy . 
'The confidence , said Mrs Skewton , 'that has subsisted between us the free development of soul , and openness of sentiment is touching to think of . 
We have been more like sisters than Mama and child . 
B. 's own sentiment , observed the Major , 'expressed by J. B. fifty thousand times ! 'Do not interrupt , rude man ! said Cleopatra . 
'What are my feelings , then , when I find that there is one subject avoided by us ! That there is a what's his name a gulf opened between us . 
That my own artless Edith is changed to me ! They are of the most poignant description , of course . 
The Major left his chair , and took one nearer to the little table . 
'From day to day I see this , my dear Major , proceeded Mrs Skewton . 
'From day to day I feel this . 
Why don't you tell me something to the purpose ? The Major laughed , and kissed the hand she had bestowed upon him , and laughed again immensely . 
'Is there as much Heart in Mr Dombey as I gave him credit for ? languished Cleopatra tenderly . 
'Shall we marry him to Edith Granger , Ma'am ? chuckled the Major , hoarsely . 
'Mysterious creature ! returned Cleopatra , bringing her fan to bear upon the Major's nose . 
'How can we marry him ? 'Shall we marry him to Edith Granger , Ma'am , I say ? chuckled the Major again . 
It might have been in modesty it might have been in apprehension of some danger to their bloom . 
'Dombey , Ma'am , said the Major , 'is a great catch . 
'Oh , mercenary wretch ! cried Cleopatra , with a little shriek , 'I am shocked . 
'And Dombey , Ma'am , pursued the Major , thrusting forward his head , and distending his eyes , 'is in earnest . 
Joseph says it Bagstock knows it J. B. keeps him to the mark . 
Leave Dombey to himself , Ma'am . 
Dombey is safe , Ma'am . 
Do as you have done do no more and trust to J. B. for the end . 
'You really think so , my dear Major ? returned Cleopatra , who had eyed him very cautiously , and very searchingly , in spite of her listless bearing . 
'Sure of it , Ma'am , rejoined the Major . 
'Cleopatra the peerless , and her Antony Bagstock , will often speak of this , triumphantly , when sharing the elegance and wealth of Edith Dombey's establishment . 
Dombey's right hand man , Ma'am , said the Major , stopping abruptly in a chuckle , and becoming serious , 'has arrived . 
'This morning ? said Cleopatra . 
'This morning , Ma'am , returned the Major . 
For Dombey is as proud , Ma'am , said the Major , 'as Lucifer . 
'A charming quality , lisped Mrs Skewton 'reminding one of dearest Edith . 
'Well , Ma'am , said the Major . 
'I have thrown out hints already , and the right hand man understands 'em and I'll throw out more , before the day is done . 
Dombey projected this morning a ride to Warwick Castle , and to Kenilworth , to morrow , to be preceded by a breakfast with us . 
I undertook the delivery of this invitation . 
Edith , so beautiful and stately , but so cold and so repelling . 
Who , slightly acknowledging the presence of Major Bagstock , and directing a keen glance at her mother , drew back the from a window , and sat down there , looking out . 
'My dearest Edith , said Mrs Skewton , 'where on earth have you been ? I have wanted you , my love , most sadly . 
'You said you were engaged , and I stayed away , she answered , without turning her head . 
'It was cruel to Old Joe , Ma'am , said the Major in his gallantry . 
'My darling girl , she began again . 
'Not woman yet ? said Edith , with a smile . 
Will you go , Edith ? 'Will I go ! she repeated , turning very red , and breathing quickly as she looked round at her mother . 
'I knew you would , my own , observed the latter carelessly . 
'It is , as you say , quite a form to ask . 
Here is Mr Dombey's letter , Edith . 
I have no desire to read it , was her answer . 
'Then perhaps I had better answer it myself , said Mrs Skewton , 'though I had thought of asking you to be my secretary , darling . 
'Your regards , Edith , my dear ? said Mrs Skewton , pausing , pen in hand , at the postscript . 
'What you will , Mama , she answered , without turning her head , and with supreme indifference . 
But as to there being something of a division between 'em or a gulf as the mother calls it damme , Sir , that seems true enough . 
When the Major was too hoarse with meat and drink , and the display of his social powers , to render himself intelligible any longer , they adjourned to coffee . 
After which , the Major inquired of Mr Carker the Manager , with little apparent hope of an answer in the affirmative , if he played picquet . 
'Yes , I play picquet a little , said Mr Carker . 
'Backgammon , perhaps ? observed the Major , hesitating . 
'Yes , I play backgammon a little too , replied the man of teeth . 
In sooth , he played the two in question , to such perfection , that the Major was astonished , and asked him , at random , if he played chess . 
'Yes , I play chess a little , answered Carker . 
'I have sometimes played , and won a game it's a mere trick without seeing the board . 
'By Gad , Sir ! said the Major , staring , 'you are a contrast to Dombey , who plays nothing . 
'Oh ! He ! returned the Manager . 
'He has never had occasion to acquire such little arts . 
To men like me , they are sometimes useful . 
As at present , Major Bagstock , when they enable me to take a hand with you . 
But the Major thought nothing about it and Mr Dombey lay meditating with his eyes half shut , during the whole of the play , which lasted until bed time . 
There was a faint blur on the surface of the mirror in Mr Carker's chamber , and its reflection was , perhaps , a false one . 
Deeper Shadows Mr Carker the Manager rose with the lark , and went out , walking in the summer day . 
But there was not a bird in the air , singing unseen , farther beyond the reach of human eye than Mr Carker's thoughts . 
He had his face so perfectly under control , that few could say more , in distinct terms , of its expression , than that it smiled or that it pondered . 
It pondered now , intently . 
As the lark rose higher , he sank deeper in thought . 
As the lark poured out her melody clearer and stronger , he fell into a graver and profounder silence . 
Perhaps with an eye to first impressions , Mr Carker was very carefully and trimly dressed , that morning . 
It was that of a lady , elegantly dressed and very handsome , whose dark proud eyes were fixed upon the ground , and in whom some passion or struggle was raging . 
'I can tell it for myself , was the reply . 
'Ay , ay , pretty lady but not right . 
You didn't tell it right when you were sitting there . 
I see you ! Give me a piece of silver , pretty lady , and I'll tell your fortune true . 
There's riches , pretty lady , in your face . 
'I know , returned the lady , passing her with a dark smile , and a proud step . 
'What ! You won't give me nothing ? cried the old woman . 
The lady acknowledged his interference with an inclination of the head , and went her way . 
'You give me something then , or I'll call it after her ! screamed the old woman , throwing up her arms , and pressing forward against his outstretched hand . 
'Yes , said the woman , steadfast in her scrutiny , and holding out her shrivelled hand . 
'I know ! 'What do you know ? demanded Carker , throwing her a shilling . 
Mr Carker laughed , and turned upon his heel . 
'Good ! said the old woman . 
'One child dead , and one child living one wife dead , and one wife coming . 
Go and meet her ! In spite of himself , the Manager looked round again , and stopped . 
'What was that you said , Beldamite ? he demanded . 
You have heard me mention Mr Carker . 
'I am charmed , I am sure , said Mrs Skewton , graciously . 
Mr Carker was charmed , of course . 
the Edith whom they had toasted overnight ? 'Why , where , for Heaven's sake , is Edith ? exclaimed Mrs Skewton , looking round . 
'Still at the door , giving Withers orders about the mounting of those drawings ! My dear Mr Dombey , will you have the kindness Mr Dombey was already gone to seek her . 
Next moment he returned , bearing on his arm the same elegantly dressed and very handsome lady whom Mr Carker had encountered underneath the trees . 
But their recognition of each other was so manifest , that Mr Dombey stopped surprised . 
'I am obliged to the gentleman , said Edith , with a stately bend , 'for sparing me some annoyance from an importunate beggar just now . 
'I am obliged to my good fortune , said Mr Carker , bowing low , 'for the opportunity of rendering so slight a service to one whose servant I am proud to be . 
As he saw that , she saw in his eye that her distrust was not without foundation . 
that he was all heart 'really now , this is one of the most enchanting coincidences that I ever heard of . 
Mr Dombey bowed to her . 
Edith , saving for a curl of her lip , was motionless . 
It is the most enchanting expedition ! 'Any expedition would be enchanting in such society , returned Carker 'but I believe it is , in itself , full of interest . 
'Oh ! cried Mrs Skewton , with a faded little scream of rapture , 'the Castle is charming ! associations of the Middle Ages and all that which is so truly exquisite . 
Don't you dote upon the Middle Ages , Mr Carker ? 'Very much , indeed , said Mr Carker . 
'Such charming times ! cried Cleopatra . 
But Mr Carker commiserated our reality nevertheless , and agreed that we were very hardly used in that regard . 
'Pictures at the Castle , quite divine ! said Cleopatra . 
He is a very creditable artist himself . 
He will be delighted , I am sure , with Mrs Granger's taste and skill . 
'Damme , Sir ! cried Major Bagstock , 'my opinion is , that you're the admirable Carker , and can do anything . 
'Oh ! smiled Carker , with humility , 'you are much too sanguine , Major Bagstock . 
I can do very little . 
All this time , Edith never raised her eyes , unless to glance towards her mother when that lady's fervent spirit shone forth in words . 
But as Carker ceased , she looked at Mr Dombey for a moment . 
For a moment only but with a transient gleam of scornful wonder on her face , not lost on one observer , who was smiling round the board . 
Mr Dombey caught the dark eyelash in its descent , and took the opportunity of arresting it . 
'You have been to Warwick often , unfortunately ? said Mr Dombey . 
'The visit will be tedious to you , I am afraid . 
'Oh no not at all . 
'Ah ! You are like your cousin Feenix , my dearest Edith , said Mrs Skewton . 
'We are all enthusiastic , are we not , Mama ? said Edith , with a cold smile . 
'Too much so , for our peace , perhaps , my dear , returned her mother 'but we won't complain . 
Our own emotions are our recompense . 
If , as your cousin Feenix says , the sword wears out the what's its name 'The scabbard , perhaps , said Edith . 
'Exactly a little too fast , it is because it is bright and glowing , you know , my dearest love . 
It set him thinking of her as he had first seen her , when she had believed herself to be alone among the trees . 
Mr Dombey having nothing else to say , proposed the breakfast being now finished , and the Major gorged , like any Boa Constrictor that they should start . 
Mr Carker cantered behind the carriage . 
Mrs Skewton was bent on taking charge of Mr Carker herself , and showing him the beauties of the Castle . 
She was determined to have his arm , and the Major's too . 
It would do that incorrigible creature who was the most barbarous infidel in point of poetry good to be in such company . 
This chance arrangement left Mr Dombey at liberty to escort Edith which he did stalking before them through the apartments with a gentlemanly solemnity . 
With all their conversational endowments , they spoke somewhat distractedly , and at random , in consequence . 
'We have no Faith left , positively , said Mrs Skewton , advancing her shrivelled ear for Mr Dombey was saying something to Edith . 
Dear creature ! She was all Heart And that charming father of hers ! I hope you dote on Harry the Eighth ! 'I admire him very much , said Carker . 
'So bluff ! cried Mrs Skewton , 'wasn't he ? So burly . 
They were not interchanging a word or a look . 
Standing together , arm in arm , they had the appearance of being more divided than if seas had rolled between them . 
He , self important , unbending , formal , austere . 
Grim knights and warriors looked scowling on them . 
A churchman , with his hand upraised , denounced the mockery of such a couple coming to God's altar . 
Loves and Cupids took to flight afraid , and Martyrdom had no such torment in its painted history of suffering . 
'My dearest Edith knows I was admiring her ! said Cleopatra , tapping her , almost timidly , on the back with her parasol . 
'Sweet pet ! Again Mr Carker saw the strife he had witnessed so unexpectedly among the trees . 
Again he saw the haughty languor and indifference come over it , and hide it like a cloud . 
She did not raise her eyes to him but with a slight peremptory motion of them , seemed to bid her mother come near . 
, he transferred his attentions to Mr Dombey . 
, which he must always highly value . 
'But I am afraid I trouble you too much , said Mr Dombey . 
Where would you wish it taken from ? she answered , turning to him with the same enforced attention as before . 
Mr Dombey , with another bow , which cracked the starch in his cravat , would beg to leave that to the Artist . 
'I would rather you chose for yourself , said Edith . 
'Suppose then , said Mr Dombey , 'we say from here . 
It was the second glance they had exchanged since their introduction and would have been exactly like the first , but that its expression was plainer . 
'Will you like that ? said Edith to Mr Dombey . 
'I shall be charmed , said Mr Dombey to Edith . 
'My pencils are all pointless , she said , stopping and turning them over . 
'Pray allow me , said Mr Dombey . 
'Or Carker will do it better , as he understands these things . 
Carker , have the goodness to see to these pencils for Mrs Granger . 
Mr Dombey in the meantime stood bolt upright in the carriage like a highly respectable ghost , looking on too while Cleopatra and the Major dallied as two ancient doves might do . 
'Are you satisfied with that , or shall I finish it a little more ? said Edith , showing the sketch to Mr Dombey . 
Mr Dombey begged that it might not be touched it was perfection . 
'It is most extraordinary , said Carker , bringing every one of his red gums to bear upon his praise . 
'I was not prepared for anything so beautiful , and so unusual altogether . 
This might have applied to the sketcher no less than to the sketch but Mr Carker's manner was openness itself not as to his mouth alone , but as to his whole spirit . 
, and tightening his rein , fell back , and followed the carriage again . 
Thinking , perhaps , as he rode , that even this trivial sketch had been made and delivered to its owner , as if it had been bargained for and bought . 
The dinner was the counterpart of yesterday's , except that the Major was twenty four hours more triumphant and less mysterious . 
Mr Dombey was again agreeably embarrassed . 
And Mr Carker was full of interest and praise . 
There were no other visitors at Mrs Skewton's . 
Edith's drawings were strewn about the room , a little more abundantly than usual perhaps and Withers , the wan page , handed round a little stronger tea . 
The harp was there the piano was there and Edith sang and played . 
But even the music was played by Edith to Mr Dombey's order , as it were , in the same uncompromising way . 
'Edith , my dearest love , said Mrs Skewton , half an hour after tea , 'Mr Dombey is dying to hear you , I know . 
'Mr Dombey has life enough left to say so for himself , Mama , I have no doubt . 
'I shall be immensely obliged , said Mr Dombey . 
'What do you wish ? 'Piano ? hesitated Mr Dombey . 
You have only to choose . 
Accordingly , she began with the piano . 
It was the same with the harp the same with her singing the same with the selection of the pieces that she sang and played . 
Nor did he lose sight of the fact that Mr Dombey was evidently proud of his power , and liked to show it . 
'I hope so , said Mr Carker , with an expressive look at the couple in the distance , as he drew towards the door , following the Major . 
'Dombey , come along ! cried the Major , looking in at the door . 
Mrs Skewton reposed on her sofa , and Edith sat apart , by her harp , in silence . 
The mother , trifling with her fan , looked stealthily at the daughter more than once , but the daughter , brooding gloomily with downcast eyes , was not to be disturbed . 
Thus they remained for a long hour , without a word , until Mrs Skewton's maid appeared , according to custom , to prepare her gradually for night . 
At night , she should have been a skeleton , with dart and hour glass , rather than a woman , this attendant for her touch was as the touch of Death . 
The very voice was changed , as it addressed Edith , when they were alone again . 
'Why don't you tell me , it said sharply , 'that he is coming here to morrow by appointment ? 'Because you know it , returned Edith , 'Mother . 
The mocking emphasis she laid on that one word ! 'You know he has bought me , she resumed . 
'Or that he will , to morrow . 
'What do you mean ? returned the angry mother . 
Look at me , taught to scheme and plot when children play and married in my youth an old age of design to one for whom I had no feeling but indifference . 
'We have been making every effort to endeavour to secure to you a good establishment , rejoined her mother . 
'That has been your life . 
And now you have got it . 
He sees me at the auction , and he thinks it well to buy me . 
Let him ! When he came to view me perhaps to bid he required to see the roll of my accomplishments . 
I gave it to him . 
When he would have me show one of them , to justify his purchase to his men , I require of him to say which he demands , and I exhibit it . 
I will do no more . 
He makes the purchase of his own will , and with his own sense of its worth , and the power of his money and I hope it may never disappoint him . 
I have not vaunted and pressed the bargain neither have you , so far as I have been able to prevent you . 
'You talk strangely to night , Edith , to your own Mother . 
'It seems so to me stranger to me than you , said Edith . 
'But my education was completed long ago . 
I am too old now , and have fallen too low , by degrees , to take a new course , and to stop yours , and to help myself . 
'This man ! You speak , said her mother , 'as if you hated him . 
'And you thought I loved him , did you not ? she answered , stopping on her way across the room , and looking round . 
, is not likely to have much effect on your establishment . 
It was quickly gone and with her usual step , she passed out of the room . 
'Once when you was out a walking with them Sket Florence gently looked at her , and Miss Nipper checked herself . 
'With Sir Barnet and his lady , I mean to say , Miss , and the young gentleman . 
And two evenings since then . 
'When I was a child , and when company used to come to visit Papa , did you ever see that gentleman at home , Susan ? asked Florence . 
'Well , Miss , returned her maid , after considering , 'I really couldn't say I ever did . 
'To be sure , said Florence , still thoughtfully 'you are not likely to have known who came to the house . 
I knew that , Pitcher as I might have been . 
Susan Nipper , with an injured remembrance of the nurse before Mrs Richards , emphasised 'Pitcher' strongly . 
that after your Pa , the Emperor of India is the child unborn to Mr Carker . 
'Yes , Susan , she said , when that young lady had concluded . 
'He is in Papa's confidence , and is his friend , I am sure . 
Florence's mind ran high on this theme , and had done for some days . 
This conduct on the part of Mr Carker , and her habit of often considering it with wonder and uneasiness , began to invest him with an uncomfortable fascination in Florence's thoughts . 
And yet he never frowned , or looked upon her with an air of dislike or animosity , but was always smiling and serene . 
Florence had a new reason in all this for wishing to be at home again . 
Of Walter she thought often . 
Ah ! how often , when the night was gloomy , and the wind was blowing round the house ! But hope was strong in her breast . 
Her tears fell frequently for Walter's sufferings but rarely for his supposed death , and never long . 
She had written to the old Instrument maker , but had received no answer to her note which indeed required none . 
Thus matters stood with Florence on the morning when she was going home , gladly , to her old secluded life . 
The holiday time was past and over most of the juvenile guests at the villa had taken their departure and Florence's long visit was come to an end . 
There was one guest , however , albeit not resident within the house , who had been very constant in his attentions to the family , and who still remained devoted to them . 
'How are you , Toots ? Sir Barnet would say , waving his hand from the lawn , while the artful Chicken steered close in shore . 
'I never was so surprised ! Mr Toots would exclaim . 
'Is Miss Dombey there ? Whereupon Florence would appear , perhaps . 
'Oh , Diogenes is quite well , Miss Dombey , Toots would cry . 
'I called to ask this morning . 
'Thank you very much ! the pleasant voice of Florence would reply . 
'Won't you come ashore , Toots ? Sir Barnet would say then . 
'Come ! you're in no hurry . 
'Oh , it's of no consequence , thank you ! Mr Toots would blushingly rejoin . 
'I thought Miss Dombey might like to know , that's all . 
The Joy was lying in a state of extraordinary splendour , at the garden steps , on the morning of Florence's departure . 
When she went downstairs to take leave , after her talk with Susan , she found Mr Toots awaiting her in the drawing room . 
'You are very kind , said Florence . 
'Thank you , it's of no consequence , retorted Mr Toots . 
'I thought perhaps you wouldn't mind , in this fine weather , coming home by water , Miss Dombey . 
There's plenty of room in the boat for your maid . 
'I am very much obliged to you , said Florence , hesitating . 
'I really am but I would rather not . 
'Oh , it's of no consequence , retorted Mr Toots . 
'Won't you wait and see Lady Skettles ? asked Florence , kindly . 
'Oh no , thank you , returned Mr Toots , 'it's of no consequence at all . 
'Good morning ! Notwithstanding the emphatic nature of this farewell , Mr Toots , instead of going away , stood leering about him , vacantly . 
Florence , to relieve him , bade adieu , with many thanks , to Lady Skettles , and gave her arm to Sir Barnet . 
Such of her late friends and companions as were yet remaining at the villa , came running from within , and from the garden , to say good bye . 
They were all attached to her , and very earnest in taking leave of her . 
Even the household were sorry for her going , and the servants came nodding and curtseying round the carriage door . 
His little history was associated with the old house too , and gave it a new claim and hold upon her heart . 
Even Susan Nipper softened towards the home of so many years , as they were on their way towards it . 
Gloomy as it was , and rigid justice as she rendered to its gloom , she forgave it a great deal . 
'I shall be glad to see it again , I don't deny , Miss , said the Nipper . 
Florence felt that , for her , there was greater peace within it than elsewhere . 
It was better to pursue the study of her loving heart , alone , and find no new discouragements in loving hearts about her . 
She welcomed back her old enchanted dream of life , and longed for the old dark door to close upon her , once again . 
Full of such thoughts , they turned into the long and sombre street . 
She was thus engaged , when an exclamation from Susan caused her to turn quickly round . 
'Why , Gracious me ! cried Susan , breathless , 'where's our house ! 'Our house ! said Florence . 
Susan , drawing in her head from the window , thrust it out again , drew it in again as the carriage stopped , and stared at her mistress in amazement . 
There was a labyrinth of scaffolding raised all round the house , from the basement to the roof . 
Loads of bricks and stones , and heaps of mortar , and piles of wood , blocked up half the width and length of the broad street at the side . 
'There is nothing the matter ? inquired Florence . 
'There are great alterations going on . 
'Yes , Miss , great alterations , said Towlinson . 
Florence passed him as if she were in a dream , and hurried upstairs . 
The garish light was in the long darkened drawing room and there were steps and platforms , and men In paper caps , in the high places . 
Her mother's picture was gone with the rest of the moveables , and on the mark where it had been , was scrawled in chalk , 'this room in panel . 
The staircase was a labyrinth of posts and planks like the outside of the house , and a whole Olympus of plumbers and glaziers was reclining in various attitudes , on the skylight . 
Her own room was not yet touched within , but there were beams and boards raised against it without , baulking the daylight . 
'At home ! and wishing to speak to me ! cried Florence , trembling . 
Susan , who was infinitely more distraught than Florence herself , repeated her errand and Florence , pale and agitated , hurried down again , without a moment's hesitation . 
She thought upon the way down , would she dare to kiss him ? The longing of her heart resolved her , and she thought she would . 
Her father might have heard that heart beat , when it came into his presence . 
One instant , and it would have beat against his breast . 
But he was not alone . 
There were two ladies there and Florence stopped . 
It touched the door in shutting it , with quite as much endearment as it had touched her . 
'What dog is that ? said Mr Dombey , displeased . 
'It is a dog , Papa from Brighton . 
'Well ! said Mr Dombey and a cloud passed over his face , for he understood her . 
'He is very good tempered , said Florence , addressing herself with her natural grace and sweetness to the two lady strangers . 
'He is only glad to see me . 
'Mrs Skewton , said her father , turning to the first , and holding out his hand , 'this is my daughter Florence . 
'Charming , I am sure , observed the lady , putting up her glass . 
'So natural ! My darling Florence , you must kiss me , if you please . 
Florence having done so , turned towards the other lady , by whom her father stood waiting . 
'Edith , said Mr Dombey , 'this is my daughter Florence . 
Florence , this lady will soon be your Mama . 
Then she cried out , 'Oh , Papa , may you be happy ! may you be very , very happy all your life ! and then fell weeping on the lady's bosom . 
There was a short silence . 
Not one word passed the lady's lips . 
She bent her head down over Florence , and she kissed her on the cheek , but she said no word . 
'Shall we go on through the rooms , said Mr Dombey , 'and see how our workmen are doing ? Pray allow me , my dear madam . 
Florence was still sobbing on the lady's breast , and holding to her , when Mr Dombey was heard to say from the Conservatory 'Let us ask Edith . 
Dear me , where is she ? 'Edith , my dear ! cried Mrs Skewton , 'where are you ? Looking for Mr Dombey somewhere , I know . 
We are here , my love . 
The beautiful lady released her hold of Florence , and pressing her lips once more upon her face , withdrew hurriedly , and joined them . 
'Florence , said the lady , hurriedly , and looking into her face with great earnestness . 
'You will not begin by hating me ? 'By hating you , Mama ? cried Florence , winding her arm round her neck , and returning the look . 
'Hush ! Begin by thinking well of me , said the beautiful lady . 
'Begin by believing that I will try to make you happy , and that I am prepared to love you , Florence . 
We shall meet again soon . 
Good bye ! Don't stay here , now . 
Again she pressed her to her breast she had spoken in a rapid manner , but firmly and Florence saw her rejoin them in the other room . 
Miss Tox was slow in coming to the plants , this morning . 
The weather was warm , the wind southerly and there was a sigh of the summer time In Princess's Place , that turned Miss Tox's thoughts upon the country . 
What other reason could Miss Tox have for connecting Mr Dombey with her summer days and dandelion fetters ? Was he more cheerful ? thought Miss Tox . 
Another flush succeeded when she saw a little carriage drive into Princess's Place , and make straight for her own door . 
Miss Tox arose , took up her scissors hastily , and so coming , at last , to the plants , was very busy with them when Mrs Chick entered the room . 
'How is my sweetest friend ! exclaimed Miss Tox , with open arms . 
A little stateliness was mingled with Miss Tox's sweetest friend's demeanour , but she kissed Miss Tox , and said , 'Lucretia , thank you , I am pretty well . 
I hope you are the same . 
Hem ! Mrs Chick was labouring under a peculiar little monosyllabic cough a sort of primer , or easy introduction to the art of coughing . 
'You call very early , and how kind that is , my dear ! pursued Miss Tox . 
'Now , have you breakfasted ? 'Thank you , Lucretia , said Mrs Chick , 'I have . 
I took an early breakfast' the good lady seemed curious on the subject of Princess's Place , and looked all round it as she spoke 'with my brother , who has come home . 
'He is better , I trust , my love , faltered Miss Tox . 
'He is greatly better , thank you . 
Hem ! 'My dear Louisa must be careful of that cough' remarked Miss Tox . 
'It's nothing , returned Mrs Chic 'It's merely change of weather . 
'Of weather ? asked Miss Tox , in her simplicity . 
'Of everything' returned Mrs Chick 'Of course we must . 
It's a world of change . 
Anyone would surprise me very much , Lucretia , and would greatly alter my opinion of their understanding , if they attempted to contradict or evade what is so perfectly evident . 
Change ! exclaimed Mrs Chick , with severe philosophy . 
'My Louisa , said the mild Miss Tox , 'is ever happy in her illustrations . 
'You are so kind , Lucretia , returned Mrs Chick , a little softened , 'as to say so , and to think so , I believe . 
I hope neither of us may ever have any cause to lessen our opinion of the other , Lucretia . 
'I am sure of it , returned Miss Tox . 
Mrs Chick coughed as before , and drew lines on the carpet with the ivory end of her parasol . 
He has his newspaper , and would be quite contented for the next two hours . 
Go on with your flowers , Lucretia , and allow me to sit here and rest . 
'My Louisa knows , observed Miss Tox , 'that between friends like ourselves , any approach to ceremony would be out of the question . 
There can be no doubt about it . 
I should have very little respect , indeed , for anybody who could advocate a different opinion . 
Whatever my wishes might be , I could not respect them . 
We cannot command our feelings to such an extent as that . 
Miss Tox assented , without being particular as to the intelligibility of the proposition . 
That he is bound to make an effort . 
We have always been a family remarkable for effort . 
Paul is at the head of the family almost the only representative of it left for what am I I am of no consequence 'My dearest love , remonstrated Miss Tox . 
Mrs Chick dried her eyes , which were , for the moment , overflowing and proceeded 'And consequently he is more than ever bound to make an effort . 
I only hope , said Mrs Chick , after a pause , 'that she may be worthy of the name too . 
'To what remark of mine , my dear , do you refer ? 'Her being worthy of her name , my love , replied Miss Tox . 
'If , said Mrs Chick , with solemn patience , 'I have not expressed myself with clearness , Lucretia , the fault of course is mine . 
Because , why should I do anything else ? There is no reason it would be absurd . 
'Indeed ! returned Miss Tox . 
'No , said Mrs Chick shortly and decisively . 
'Pardon me , my dear , rejoined her meek friend 'but I cannot have understood it . 
I fear I am dull . 
I believe I have already said , in effect , if not in the very words I now use , that it is his intention to marry a second wife . 
'Whether she will be fully sensible of the distinction conferred upon her , said Mrs Chick , in a lofty tone , 'is quite another question . 
I hope she may be . 
We are bound to think well of one another in this world , and I hope she may be . 
I much prefer it as it is . 
Miss Tox , with head bent down , still clipped among the plants . 
Mrs Chick , with energetic shakings of her own head from time to time , continued to hold forth , as if in defiance of somebody . 
Those are the words I should have used . 
You might have led me to the block immediately afterwards , said Mrs Chick , as if that consequence were highly probable , 'but I should have used them . 
Perhaps Miss Tox thought there was hope in this exordium , and the warmth of Mrs Chick . 
I should have adopted this course of argument , pursued the discreet lady , 'because I trust I am not a fool . 
'It wouldn't surprise me at all . 
In the moment's silence that ensued , Miss Tox's scissors gave a feeble clip or two but Miss Tox's face was still invisible , and Miss Tox's morning gown was agitated . 
However , it seems to be extremely desirable in every point of view . 
, and might be almost expected to blow while the gentle rain descended . 
, did Mrs Chick administer the smelling bottle , the slapping on the hands , the dashing of cold water on the face , and the other proved remedies . 
'Lucretia ! said Mrs Chick 'I will not attempt to disguise what I feel . 
My eyes are opened , all at once . 
I wouldn't have believed this , if a Saint had told it to me . 
'I am foolish to give way to faintness , Miss Tox faltered . 
'I shall be better presently . 
'You will be better presently , Lucretia ! repeated Mrs Chick , with exceeding scorn . 
Lucretia Tox , my eyes are opened to you all at once . 
The scales here Mrs Chick cast down an imaginary pair , such as are commonly used in grocers' shops 'have fallen from my sight . 
The blindness of my confidence is past , Lucretia . 
It has been abused and played , upon , and evasion is quite out of the question now , I assure you . 
'Oh ! to what do you allude so cruelly , my love ? asked Miss Tox , through her tears . 
'Lucretia , said Mrs Chick , 'ask your own heart . 
I must entreat you not to address me by any such familiar term as you have just used , if you please . 
I have some self respect left , though you may think otherwise . 
'Oh , Louisa ! cried Miss Tox . 
'Like that ! You may well say like that , indeed ! Miss Tox sobbed pitifully . 
'Pray , Louisa , urged Miss Tox , 'do not say such dreadful things . 
'Dreadful things ! repeated Mrs Chick . 
But , in my own defence 'Yes , cried Mrs Chick , looking round the room with a prophetic smile , 'that's what she's going to say . 
You had better say it . 
Say it openly ! Be open , Lucretia Tox , said Mrs Chick , with desperate sternness , 'whatever you are . 
I can bear much but not too much . 
Lucretia , I have been mistaken in you . 
It is better for us both that this subject should end here . 
I wish you well , and I shall ever wish you well . 
These words , delivered with cutting suavity , tempered and chastened by a lofty air of moral rectitude , carried the speaker to the door . 
Figuratively speaking , that is to say for the arms of Mr Chick were full of his newspaper . 
Neither did that gentleman address his eyes towards his wife otherwise than by stealth . 
Neither did he offer any consolation whatever . 
In short , he sat reading , and humming fag ends of tunes , and sometimes glancing furtively at her without delivering himself of a word , good , bad , or indifferent . 
In the meantime Mrs Chick sat swelling and bridling , and tossing her head , as if she were still repeating that solemn formula of farewell to Lucretia Tox . 
She is fortunate if nothing does . 
Mrs Chick instantly burst into tears , and told Mr Chick that if he wished to trample upon her with his boots , he had better do It . 
'But with Lucretia Tox I have done , said Mrs Chick , after abandoning herself to her feelings for some minutes , to Mr Chick's great terror . 
It is better as it is , said Mrs Chick , piously 'much better . 
There's a providence in everything everything works for the best I have been tried today but on the whole I do not regret it . 
In which Christian spirit , Mrs Chick dried her eyes and smoothed her lap , and sat as became a person calm under a great wrong . 
She welcomed back the evening silence as an old friend , but it came now with an altered face , and looked more kindly on her . 
Fresh hope was in it . 
The beautiful lady who had soothed and carressed her , in the very room in which her heart had been so wrung , was a spirit of promise to her . 
She had no fear of setting up a rival in her breast . 
The new flower sprang from the deep planted and long cherished root , she knew . 
Every gentle word that had fallen from the lips of the beautiful lady , sounded to Florence like an echo of the voice long hushed and silent . 
'Mama ! cried Florence , joyfully meeting her . 
'Come again ! 'Not Mama yet , returned the lady , with a serious smile , as she encircled Florence's neck with her arm . 
'But very soon to be , cried Florence . 
'Very soon now , Florence very soon . 
Edith bent her head a little , so as to press the blooming cheek of Florence against her own , and for some few moments remained thus silent . 
There was something so very tender in her manner , that Florence was even more sensible of it than on the first occasion of their meeting . 
She led Florence to a chair beside her , and sat down Florence looking in her face , quite wondering at its beauty , and willingly leaving her hand In hers . 
'Have you been alone , Florence , since I was here last ? 'Oh yes ! smiled Florence , hastily . 
She hesitated and cast down her eyes for her new Mama was very earnest in her look , and the look was intently and thoughtfully fixed upon her face . 
'I I am used to be alone , said Florence . 
'I don't mind it at all . 
Di and I pass whole days together , sometimes . 
Florence might have said , whole weeks and months . 
'Is Di your maid , love ? 'My dog , Mama , said Florence , laughing . 
'And these are your rooms , said Edith , looking round . 
'I was not shown these rooms the other day . 
We must have them improved , Florence . 
They shall be made the prettiest in the house . 
'If I might change them , Mama , returned Florence 'there is one upstairs I should like much better . 
'Is this not high enough , dear girl ? asked Edith , smiling . 
'The other was my brother's room , said Florence , 'and I am very fond of it . 
It was then that Florence thought how different this lady's beauty was , from what she had supposed . 
as if she were humbled before Florence , and ill at ease . 
She gave Florence her ready promise , about her new room , and said she would give directions about it herself . 
She then asked some questions concerning poor Paul and when they had sat in conversation for some time , told Florence she had come to take her to her own home . 
'We have come to London now , my mother and I , said Edith , 'and you shall stay with us until I am married . 
I wish that we should know and trust each other , Florence . 
'You are very kind to me , said Florence , 'dear Mama . 
No matter who invites you to stay elsewhere . 
It is better to be alone than what I would say is , she added , checking herself , 'that I know well you are best at home , dear Florence . 
'I will come home on the very day , Mama' 'Do so . 
I rely on that promise . 
Now , prepare to come with me , dear girl . 
You will find me downstairs when you are ready . 
Florence was timidly stooping to pick out a place In the white part of Mrs Skewton's face , when that lady presented her ear , and relieved her of her difficulty . 
'Edith , my dear , said Mrs Skewton , 'positively , I stand a little more in the light , my sweetest Florence , for a moment . 
'For positively , my dear , said Mrs Skewton , 'I do think that I see a decided resemblance to what you were then , in our extremely fascinating young friend . 
And it shows , said Mrs Skewton , in a lower voice , which conveyed her opinion that Florence was in a very unfinished state , 'what cultivation will do . 
'It does , indeed , was Edith's stern reply . 
Florence complied , of course , and again imprinted her lips on Mrs Skewton's ear . 
'I knew it would be very soon , returned Florence , 'but not exactly when . 
As the time drew nearer , she could hardly breathe . 
She dared not approach a window , lest he should see her from the street . 
'I hear him now ! cried Florence , starting . 
It was so quickly done , that in a moment Florence heard his awful step in the room . 
He saluted his intended mother in law , and his intended bride . 
The strange sound of his voice thrilled through the whole frame of his child . 
'My dear Dombey , said Cleopatra , 'come here and tell me how your pretty Florence is . 
'Florence is very well , said Mr Dombey , advancing towards the couch . 
'At home ? 'At home , said Mr Dombey . 
He looked round as if to refer the matter to somebody else , but Edith had gone after Florence , instantly . 
'Now , confess , my dear Dombey , said Mrs Skewton , giving him her hand , 'that you never were more surprised and pleased in your life . 
'I never was more surprised , said Mr Dombey . 
'Nor pleased , my dearest Dombey ? returned Mrs Skewton , holding up her fan . 
'I yes , I am exceedingly glad to meet Florence here , said Mr Dombey . 
He appeared to consider gravely about it for a moment , and then said , more decidedly , 'Yes , I really am very glad indeed to meet Florence here . 
'You wonder how she comes here ? said Mrs Skewton , 'don't you ? 'Edith , perhaps suggested Mr Dombey . 
'Ah ! wicked guesser ! replied Cleopatra , shaking her head . 
This was addressed to one of the very tall young men who announced dinner . 
Well , how extremely natural that is ! And in this spirit , nothing would keep her from riding off to day to fetch our darling Florence . 
Well , how excessively charming that is ! As she waited for an answer , Mr Dombey answered , 'Eminently so . 
'Bless you , my dear Dombey , for that proof of heart ! cried Cleopatra , squeezing his hand . 
'But I am growing too serious ! Take me downstairs , like an angel , and let us see what these people intend to give us for dinner . 
Florence and Edith were already there , and sitting side by side . 
The conversation was almost entirely sustained by Mrs Skewton . 
Edith sat like a handsome statue as cold , as silent , and as still . 
It shall be when you please , said Edith , scarcely looking over the table at Mr Dombey . 
'To morrow ? suggested Mr Dombey . 
'Or would next day , said Mr Dombey , 'suit your engagements better ? 'I have no engagements . 
I am always at your disposal . 
Let it be when you like . 
'You and Mr Dombey can arrange between you . 
'Very true indeed , my love , and most considerate of you ! said Cleopatra . 
Mr Dombey was far from quarrelling , in his own breast , with the manner of his beautiful betrothed . 
He had that good reason for sympathy with haughtiness and coldness , which is found In a fellow feeling . 
It flattered him to think how these deferred to him , in Edith's case , and seemed to have no will apart from his . 
It flattered him to picture to himself , this proud and stately woman doing the honours of his house , and chilling his guests after his own manner . 
The dignity of Dombey and Son would be heightened and maintained , indeed , in such hands . 
Again came Florence close upon it , and absorbed his whole attention . 
, and remained there until Mr Dombey took leave . 
There were drives to milliners , dressmakers , jewellers , lawyers , florists , pastry cooks and Florence was always of the party . 
Florence was to go to the wedding . 
Florence was to cast off her mourning , and to wear a brilliant dress on the occasion . 
The milliner said it would become her to admiration , and that all the world would take her for the young lady's sister . 
Edith looked at nothing and cared for nothing . 
Her rich dresses came home , and were tried on , and were loudly commended by Mrs Skewton and the milliners , and were put away without a word from her . 
Mrs Skewton made their plans for every day , and executed them . 
Sometimes Edith sat in the carriage when they went to make purchases sometimes , when it was absolutely necessary , she went into the shops . 
But Mrs Skewton conducted the whole business , whatever it happened to be and Edith looked on as uninterested and with as much apparent indifference as if she had no concern in it . 
Florence might perhaps have thought she was haughty and listless , but that she was never so to her . 
So Florence quenched her wonder in her gratitude whenever it broke out , and soon subdued it . 
It had nearly winged its flight away . 
The last night of the week , the night before the marriage , was come . 
In the dark room for Mrs Skewton's head was no better yet , though she expected to recover permanently to morrow were that lady , Edith , and Mr Dombey . 
Edith was at her open window looking out into the street Mr Dombey and Cleopatra were talking softly on the sofa . 
It was growing late and Florence , being fatigued , had gone to bed . 
'My dear Dombey , said Cleopatra , 'you will leave me Florence to morrow , when you deprive me of my sweetest Edith . 
Mr Dombey said he would , with pleasure . 
Edith turned her head suddenly . 
Her listless manner was exchanged , in a moment , to one of burning interest , and , unseen in the darkness , she attended closely to their conversation . 
Mr Dombey would be delighted to leave Florence in such admirable guardianship . 
'My dear Dombey , returned Cleopatra , 'a thousand thanks for your good opinion . 
'Because my charming Florence tells me so positively she must go home tomorrow , returned Cleopatra , that I began to be afraid , my dearest Dombey , you were quite a Bashaw . 
'I assure you , madam ! said Mr Dombey , 'I have laid no commands on Florence and if I had , there are no commands like your wish . 
And are you really going so early , my dear Dombey ! Oh , indeed ! it was late , and Mr Dombey feared he must . 
'Is this a fact , or is it all a dream ! lisped Cleopatra . 
But I shall rally , my dear Dombey , In the morning do not fear for me , or be uneasy on my account . 
Heaven bless you ! My dearest Edith ! she cried archly . 
'Somebody is going , pet . 
Mrs Skewton rang for candles as soon as the house door had closed upon him . 
With the candles appeared her maid , with the juvenile dress that was to delude the world to morrow . 
The dress had savage retribution in it , as such dresses ever have , and made her infinitely older and more hideous than her greasy flannel gown . 
All this time , Edith remained at the dark window looking out into the street . 
When she and her mother were at last left alone , she moved from it for the first time that evening , and came opposite to her . 
'I am tired to death , said she . 
'You can't be trusted for a moment . 
You are worse than a child . 
Child ! No child would be half so obstinate and undutiful . 
'Listen to me , mother , returned Edith , passing these words by with a scorn that would not descend to trifle with them . 
'You must remain alone here until I return . 
'Must remain alone here , Edith , until you return ! repeated her mother . 
If I do not , may I fall dead upon the pavement ! The mother answered with a look of quick alarm , in no degree diminished by the look she met . 
'It is enough , said Edith , steadily , 'that we are what we are . 
I will have no youth and truth dragged down to my level . 
I will have no guileless nature undermined , corrupted , and perverted , to amuse the leisure of a world of mothers . 
'You are an idiot , Edith , cried her angry mother . 
'Then why do you revive it ? whimpered her mother . 
'You know that you are lacerating me in the cruellest manner . 
You know how sensitive I am to unkindness . 
At such a moment , too , when I have so much to think of , and am naturally anxious to appear to the best advantage ! I wonder at you , Edith . 
'Let her go ! cried the afflicted and affrighted parent , hastily . 
'I am sure I am willing she should go . 
renounce him in the church to morrow , replied Edith . 
She shall not , while I can interpose , be tampered with and tainted by the lessons I have learned . 
This is no hard condition on this bitter night . 
'If you had proposed it in a filial manner , Edith , whined her mother , 'perhaps not very likely not . 
But such extremely cutting words 'They are past and at an end between us now , said Edith . 
'Take your own way , mother share as you please in what you have gained spend , enjoy , make much of it and be as happy as you will . 
The object of our lives is won . 
Henceforth let us wear it silently . 
My lips are closed upon the past from this hour . 
I forgive you your part in to morrow's wickedness . 
Thus , In the dead time of the night before her bridal , Edith Granger wrestled with her unquiet spirit , tearless , friendless , silent , proud , and uncomplaining . 
At length it happened that she touched the open door which led into the room where Florence lay . 
She started , stopped , and looked in . 
A light was burning there , and showed her Florence in her bloom of innocence and beauty , fast asleep . 
Edith held her breath , and felt herself drawn on towards her . 
Its touch was like the prophet's rod of old upon the rock . 
Her tears sprung forth beneath it , as she sunk upon her knees , and laid her aching head and streaming hair upon the pillow by its side . 
Thus Edith Granger passed the night before her bridal . 
Thus the sun found her on her bridal morning . 
The Wedding Dawn with its passionless blank face , steals shivering to the church beneath which lies the dust of little Paul and his mother , and looks in at the windows . 
It is cold and dark . 
Night crouches yet , upon the pavement , and broods , sombre and heavy , in nooks and corners of the building . 
Night , growing pale before it , gradually fades out of the church , but lingers in the vaults below , and sits upon the coffins . 
A vinegary face has Mrs Miff , and a mortified bonnet , and eke a thirsty soul for sixpences and shillings . 
There is no such fact as Mr Miff , nor has there been , these twenty years , and Mrs Miff would rather not allude to him . 
He held some bad opinions , it would seem , about free seats and though Mrs Miff hopes he may be gone upwards , she couldn't positively undertake to say so . 
, who has been hired to accompany the happy pair to Paris , and who is busy packing the new chariot . 
The pastry cook is hard at work in the funereal room in Brook Street , and the very tall young men are busy looking on . 
One of the very tall young men already smells of sherry , and his eyes have a tendency to become fixed in his head , and to stare at objects without seeing them . 
The very tall young man is conscious of this failing in himself and informs his comrade that it's his 'exciseman . 
The very tall young man would say excitement , but his speech is hazy . 
The men who play the bells have got scent of the marriage and the marrow bones and cleavers too and a brass band too . 
Expectation and excitement extend further yet , and take a wider range . 
From Balls Pond , Mr Perch brings Mrs Perch to spend the day with Mr Dombey's servants , and accompany them , surreptitiously , to see the wedding . 
Truly , Mr Sownds the Beadle has good reason to feel himself in office , as he suns his portly figure on the church steps , waiting for the marriage hour . 
Gorgeous are Mr Dombey's new blue coat , fawn coloured pantaloons , and lilac waistcoat and a whisper goes about the house , that Mr Dombey's hair is curled . 
'Dombey , says the Major , seeing this , 'I give you joy . 
I congratulate you , Dombey . 
'You are good enough to say so , Major , says Mr Dombey . 
'Dombey , returns the Major , 'you know it . 
Let us have no false delicacy . 
Do you know it , or do you not , Dombey ? says the Major , almost in a passion . 
'By Gad , Sir , says the Major , 'I am warm . 
Joseph B. does not deny it , Dombey . 
This is an occasion , Sir , that calls forth all the honest sympathies remaining in an old , infernal , battered , used up , invalided , J. B. carcase . 
I had no idea of checking your too partial friendship . 
'Not too partial , Sir ! exclaims the choleric Major . 
'Dombey , I deny it . 
'Your friendship I will say then , pursues Mr Dombey , 'on any account . 
Nor can I forget , Major , on such an occasion as the present , how much I am indebted to it . 
Dombey , may the present moment be the least unhappy of our lives . 
God bless you ! Now enters Mr Carker , gorgeous likewise , and smiling like a wedding guest indeed . 
'The very day is auspicious , says Mr Carker . 
'The brightest and most genial weather ! I hope I am not a moment late ? 'Punctual to your time , Sir , says the Major . 
'I am rejoiced , I am sure , says Mr Carker . 
'Mrs Dombey , that is to be , returns Mr Dombey , condescendingly , 'will be very sensible of your attention , Carker , I am sure . 
Mr Sownds the Beadle has long risen from the steps , and is in waiting with his cocked hat in his hand . 
Mrs Miff curtseys and proposes chairs in the vestry . 
Mr Dombey prefers remaining in the church . 
As he looks up at the organ , Miss Tox in the gallery shrinks behind the fat leg of a cherubim on a monument , with cheeks like a young Wind . 
Captain Cuttle , on the contrary , stands up and waves his hook , in token of welcome and encouragement . 
Mr Toots informs the Chicken , behind his hand , that the middle gentleman , he in the fawn coloured pantaloons , is the father of his love . 
Mr Sownds and Mrs Miff are eyeing Mr Dombey from a little distance , when the noise of approaching wheels is heard , and Mr Sownds goes out . 
Then there is a crowding and a whispering at the door , and the good lady enters , with a haughty step . 
There is a pause while Mr Sownds the Beadle glides into the vestry for the clergyman and clerk . 
At this juncture , Mrs Skewton speaks to Mr Dombey more distinctly and emphatically than her custom is , and moving at the same time , close to Edith . 
'My dear Dombey , said the good Mama , 'I fear I must relinquish darling Florence after all , and suffer her to go home , as she herself proposed . 
After my loss of to day , my dear Dombey , I feel I shall not have spirits , even for her society . 
'Had she not better stay with you ? returns the Bridegroom . 
'I think not , my dear Dombey . 
No , I think not . 
I shall be better alone . 
Besides , my dearest Edith will be her natural and constant guardian when you return , and I had better not encroach upon her trust , perhaps . 
Eh , dear Edith ? The affectionate Mama presses her daughter's arm , as she says this perhaps entreating her attention earnestly . 
'To be serious , my dear Dombey , she resumes , 'I will relinquish our dear child , and not inflict my gloom upon her . 
We have settled that , just now . 
She fully understands , dear Dombey . 
Edith , my dear , she fully understands . 
Again , the good mother presses her daughter's arm . 
Mr Dombey offers no additional remonstrance for the clergyman and clerk appear and Mrs Miff , and Mr Sownds the Beadle , group the party in their proper places at the altar rails . 
The sun is shining down , upon the golden letters of the ten commandments . 
He has come from Baden Baden on purpose . 
I give this woman to be married to this man , saith Cousin Feenix therefore . 
And will they in the sight of heaven ? Ay , that they will Mr Dombey says he will . 
And what says Edith ? She will . 
In a firm , free hand , the Bride subscribes her name in the register , when they adjourn to the vestry . 
Florence signs too , but unapplauded , for her hand shakes . 
All the party sign Cousin Feenix last who puts his noble name into a wrong place , and enrols himself as having been born that morning . 
The example is followed by Cousin . 
Feenix and even by Mr Dombey . 
Lastly , Mr Carker , with hIs white teeth glistening , approaches Edith , more as if he meant to bite her , than to taste the sweets that linger on her lips . 
'If wishes , says he in a low voice , 'are not superfluous , applied to such a union . 
'I thank you , Sir , she answers , with a curled lip , and a heaving bosom . 
The carriages are once more at the church door . 
Cleopatra and Cousin Feenix enter the same carriage . 
Horses prance and caper coachmen and footmen shine in fluttering favours , flowers , and new made liveries . 
Miss Tox emerges from behind the cherubim's leg , when all is quiet , and comes slowly down from the gallery . 
Miss Tox's eyes are red , and her pocket handkerchief is damp . 
She is wounded , but not exasperated , and she hopes they may be happy . 
The gallant Mr Toots , attended by the faithful Chicken , leaves the building in torments of love . 
Now , the rest of the wedding party alight , and enter after them . 
The pastry cook has done his duty like a man , though , and a rich breakfast is set forth . 
Mr and Mrs Chick have joined the party , among others . 
The company are cool and calm , and do not outrage the black hatchments of pictures looking down upon them , by any excess of mirth . 
Cousin Feenix and the Major are the gayest there but Mr Carker has a smile for the whole table . 
He has an especial smile for the Bride , who very , very seldom meets it . 
, and the bloom of the champagne in his cheeks . 
The Major very hoarsely indicates his approval . 
Mr Carker , bending his head forward over the table in the direction of Cousin Feenix , smiles and nods a great many times . 
'A in fact it's not a Cousin Feenix beginning again , thus , comes to a dead stop . 
'Hear , hear ! says the Major , in a tone of conviction . 
And when a duty devolves upon an Englishman , he is bound to get out of it , in my opinion , in the best way he can . 
Cousin Feenix bows to Mr Dombey Mr Dombey solemnly returns the bow everybody is more or less gratified and affected by this extraordinary , and perhaps unprecedented , appeal to the feelings . 
Many smiles and nods from Mr Carker . 
'Therefore , says Cousin Feenix , 'I congratulate the family of which I am a member , on the acquisition of my friend Dombey . 
The speech of Cousin Feenix is received with great applause , and Mr Dombey returns thanks on behalf of himself and Mrs Dombey . 
J. B. shortly afterwards proposes Mrs Skewton . 
The breakfast languishes when that is done , the violated hatchments are avenged , and Edith rises to assume her travelling dress . 
All the servants in the meantime , have been breakfasting below . 
Champagne has grown too common among them to be mentioned , and roast fowls , raised pies , and lobster salad , have become mere drugs . 
The very tall young man has recovered his spirits , and again alludes to the exciseman . 
His comrade's eye begins to emulate his own , and he , too , stares at objects without taking cognizance thereof . 
The whole party , and especially the ladies , are very frolicsome . 
by the rolling of his eyes . 
One of the very tall young men has even proposed a ball after the play , and it presents itself to no one in the light of an impossibility . 
The chariot is at the door the Bride is descending to the hall , where Mr Dombey waits for her . 
Florence is ready on the staircase to depart too and Miss Nipper , who has held a middle state between the parlour and the kitchen , is prepared to accompany her . 
As Edith appears , Florence hastens towards her , to bid her farewell . 
Cousin Feenix takes his leave , and Mr Carker takes his leave . 
The guests all go away . 
Cleopatra , left alone , feels a little giddy from her strong emotion , and falls asleep . 
Giddiness prevails below stairs too . 
The very tall young man whose excitement came on so soon , appears to have his head glued to the table in the pantry , and cannot be detached from it . 
Mr Towlinson has a singing in his ears and a large wheel going round and round inside his head . 
The housemaid wishes it wasn't wicked to wish that one was dead . 
A shadowy idea of wickedness committed , haunts every individual in the party and each one secretly thinks the other a companion in guilt , whom it would be agreeable to avoid . 
No man or woman has the hardihood to hint at the projected visit to the play . 
Anyone reviving the notion of the ball , would be scouted as a malignant idiot . 
Mrs Skewton sleeps upstairs , two hours afterwards , and naps are not yet over in the kitchen . 
The marriage is , by this time , almost as denuded of its show and garnish as the breakfast . 
But Florence cannot read tonight . 
The house seems strange and new , and there are loud echoes in it . 
There is a shadow on her heart she knows not why or what but it is heavy . 
Florence shuts her book , and gruff Diogenes , who takes that for a signal , puts his paws upon her lap , and rubs his ears against her caressing hands . 
Walter , too , poor wandering shipwrecked boy , oh , where is he ? The Major don't know that's for certain and don't care . 
to the verge of madness , by anecdotes of Bagstock , Sir , at Dombey's wedding , and Old Joe's devilish gentle manly friend , Lord Feenix . 
Night , like a giant , fills the church , from pavement to roof , and holds dominion through the silent hours . 
The very words that Mr Carker rides into town repeating , with his mouth stretched to the utmost , as he picks his dainty way . 
The Captain never dreamed that in the event of his being pounced upon by Mrs MacStinger , in his walks , it would be possible to offer resistance . 
He felt that it could not be done . 
He saw himself , in his mind's eye , put meekly in a hackney coach , and carried off to his old lodgings . 
A violent perspiration , and a lowness of spirits , always came over the Captain as this gloomy picture presented itself to his imagination . 
It generally did so previous to his stealing out of doors at night for air and exercise . 
being lost sight of , for a time , to tread in the paths of virtue , and keep the brazen instruments well polished . 
Do you understand them orders , now ? 'What am I to stand off and on of , Captain ? inquired Rob . 
'Very good my lad , then , said the Captain , relenting . 
Nevertheless , the Captain did not tempt ill fortune , by being a whit more venturesome than before . 
But other subjects began to lay heavy on the Captain's mind . 
Walter's ship was still unheard of . 
No news came of old Sol Gills . 
Florence did not even know of the old man's disappearance , and Captain Cuttle had not the heart to tell her . 
The prospect near at hand was no better . 
In sundry tea chests and other rough boxes at his feet , the pigeons of Rob the Grinder were cooing like so many dismal breezes getting up . 
He tried a glass of grog but melancholy truth was at the bottom of that well , and he couldn't finish it . 
'What's that ? said Captain Cuttle , softly . 
'Somebody's knuckles , Captain , answered Rob the Grinder . 
The Captain , with an abashed and guilty air , immediately walked on tiptoe to the little parlour and locked himself in . 
'A job for Burgess and Co . 
at any rate , said the visitor , looking over his shoulder compassionately at his own legs , which were very wet and covered with splashes . 
'Thankee , the gentleman went on to say in the same breath 'I'm very well indeed , myself , I'm much obliged to you . 
My name is Toots , Mister Toots . 
The Captain remembered to have seen this young gentleman at the wedding , and made him a bow . 
'I say ! I should like to speak a word to you , Mr Gills , if you please , said Toots at length , with surprising presence of mind . 
'I say ! Miss D. O. M. you know ! The Captain , with responsive gravity and mystery , immediately waved his hook towards the little parlour , whither Mr Toots followed him . 
'The Game Chicken , said Mr Toots . 
'Because he's outside that's all , said Mr Toots . 
'But it's of no consequence he won't get very wet , perhaps . 
'I can pass the word for him in a moment , said the Captain . 
I'll call him in , Mr Gills . 
'Sit down , Chicken , said Mr Toots . 
The compliant Chicken spat out some small pieces of straw on which he was regaling himself , and took in a fresh supply from a reserve he carried in his hand . 
'There ain't no drain of nothing short handy , is there ? said the Chicken , generally . 
'This here sluicing night is hard lines to a man as lives on his condition . 
Mr Toots looked greatly disconcerted , while the Captain proceeded gravely . 
But you can't see Sol Gills . 
And why can't you see Sol Gills ? said the Captain , apprised by the face of Mr Toots that he was making a profound impression on that gentleman's mind . 
Mr Toots in his agitation was going to reply that it was of no consequence at all . 
'But , good Gracious , Miss Dombey don't know Mr Toots began . 
'I should hope so , chuckled Mr Toots , with a conscious blush that suffused his whole countenance . 
'And you come here from her ? said the Captain . 
'I should think so , chuckled Mr Toots . 
'Then all I need observe , is , said the Captain , 'that you know a angel , and are chartered a angel . 
Mr Toots instantly seized the Captain's hand , and requested the favour of his friendship . 
I really am In want of a friend , I am . 
Little Dombey was my friend at old Blimber's , and would have been now , if he'd have lived . 
So she is an angel , Captain . 
If there is an angel anywhere , it's Miss Dombey . 
That's what I've always said . 
Really though , you know , said Mr Toots , 'I should be very much obliged to you if you'd cultivate my acquaintance . 
Captain Cuttle received this proposal in a polite manner , but still without committing himself to its acceptance merely observing , 'Ay , ay , my lad . 
We shall see , we shall see and reminding Mr Toots of his immediate mission , by inquiring to what he was indebted for the honour of that visit . 
'Why the fact is , replied Mr Toots , 'that it's the young woman I come from . 
Not Miss Dombey Susan , you know . 
The Captain nodded his head once , with a grave expression of face indicative of his regarding that young woman with serious respect . 
'And I'll tell you how it happens , said Mr Toots . 
'You know , I go and call sometimes , on Miss Dombey . 
I don't go there on purpose , you know , but I happen to be in the neighbourhood very often and when I find myself there , why why I call . 
'Nat'rally , observed the Captain . 
'Yes , said Mr Toots . 
Upon my word and honour , I don't think it's possible to form an idea of the angel Miss Dombey was this afternoon . 
The Captain answered with a jerk of his head , implying that it might not be easy to some people , but was quite so to him . 
'As I was coming out , said Mr Toots , 'the young woman , in the most unexpected manner , took me into the pantry . 
The Captain seemed , for the moment , to object to this proceeding and leaning back in his chair , looked at Mr Toots with a distrustful , if not threatening visage . 
'Where she brought out , said Mr Toots , 'this newspaper . 
'Oh ! said Mr Toots after long consideration . 
She said , if he couldn't speak to me , no doubt Captain Cuttle could . 
But I came on here , directly afterwards . 
'Shall I read the passage to you ? inquired Mr Toots . 
The Captain making a sign in the affirmative , Mr Toots read as follows , from the Shipping Intelligence Southampton . 
'Ay ! cried the Captain , striking his clenched hand on the table . 
No vestige of any dead body was to be seen upon the floating fragments . 
Log of the Defiance states , that a breeze springing up in the night , the wreck was seen no more . 
Captain Cuttle , like all mankind , little knew how much hope had survived within him under discouragement , until he felt its death shock . 
I'm sure I never should have looked forward so much , to coming into my property , if I had known this . 
I never saw such a world . 
It's a great deal worse than Blimber's . 
For why ? said the Captain . 
'Because it ain't one loss , but a round dozen . 
Where's that there man's spirit , all afire , that wouldn't see the old man hove down for a minute , and cared nothing for itself ? Gone down with Wal'r . 
'My lad , said the Captain , 'you must tell the young woman honestly that this here fatal news is too correct . 
They don't romance , you see , on such pints . 
It's entered on the ship's log , and that's the truest book as a man can write . 
To morrow morning , said the Captain , 'I'll step out and make inquiries but they'll lead to no good . 
If you'll give me a look in in the forenoon , you shall know what I have heerd but tell the young woman from Cap'en Cuttle , that it's over . 
'Oh ! I assure you , said Mr Toots , 'really I am dreadfully sorry . 
Upon my word I am , though I wasn't acquainted with the party . 
When she warn't no higher than that , they were as fond of one another as two young doves . 
'Were they though ! said Mr Toots , with a considerably lengthened face . 
Mine ain't a selfish affection , you know , said Mr Toots , in the confidence engendered by his having been a witness of the Captain's tenderness . 
'Thankee , Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , 'it's kind of you , in the midst of your own troubles , to say so . 
I'm very much obliged to you . 
As I said before , I really want a friend , and should be glad to have your acquaintance . 
Although I am very well off , said Mr Toots , with energy , 'you can't think what a miserable Beast I am . 
The hollow crowd , you know , when they see me with the Chicken , and characters of distinction like that , suppose me to be happy but I'm wretched . 
I suffer for Miss Dombey , Captain Gills . 
I can't get through my meals I have no pleasure in my tailor I often cry when I'm alone . 
I assure you it'll be a satisfaction to me to come back to morrow , or to come back fifty times . 
Retirement to the stormy chamber at the top of the house brought no rest with it and the Captain rose up in the morning , sorrowful and unrefreshed . 
As soon as the City offices were opened , the Captain issued forth to the counting house of Dombey and Son . 
But there was no opening of the Midshipman's windows that morning . 
Rob the Grinder , by the Captain's orders , left the shutters closed , and the house was as a house of death . 
It chanced that Mr Carker was entering the office , as Captain Cuttle arrived at the door . 
Receiving the Manager's benison gravely and silently , Captain Cuttle made bold to accompany him into his own room . 
'Well , Captain Cuttle , said Mr Carker , taking up his usual position before the fireplace , and keeping on his hat , 'this is a bad business . 
'You have received the news as was in print yesterday , Sir ? said the Captain . 
'Yes , said Mr Carker , 'we have received it ! It was accurately stated . 
The underwriters suffer a considerable loss . 
No help ! Such is life ! Mr Carker pared his nails delicately with a penknife , and smiled at the Captain , who was standing by the door looking at him . 
'I excessively regret poor Gay , said Carker , 'and the crew . 
I understand there were some of our very best men among 'em . 
Many men with families too . 
A comfort to reflect that poor Gay had no family , Captain Cuttle ! The Captain stood rubbing his chin , and looking at the Manager . 
The Manager glanced at the unopened letters lying on his desk , and took up the newspaper . 
'Is there anything I can do for you , Captain Cuttle ? he asked looking off it , with a smiling and expressive glance at the door . 
'I wish you could set my mind at rest , Sir , on something it's uneasy about , returned the Captain . 
'Ay ! exclaimed the Manager , 'what's that ? Come , Captain Cuttle , I must trouble you to be quick , if you please . 
'Lookee here , Sir , said the Captain , advancing a step . 
'Afore my friend Wal'r went on this here disastrous voyage 'Come , come , Captain Cuttle , interposed the smiling Manager , 'don't talk about disastrous voyages in that way . 
We have nothing to do with disastrous voyages here , my good fellow . 
You must have begun very early on your day's allowance , Captain , if you don't remember that there are hazards in all voyages , whether by sea or land . 
And if you ain't the gentleman I took you for , may be my mind has call to be uneasy . 
Now this is what it is , Mr Carker . 
Afore that poor lad went away , according to orders , he told me that he warn't a going away for his own good , or for promotion , he know'd . 
Them questions you answered free . 
Mr Carker , said the Captain , in the goodness of his nature , 'when I was here last , we was very pleasant together . 
'Captain Cuttle , returned the Manager , with all possible politeness , 'I must ask you to do me a favour . 
'And what is it , Sir ? inquired the Captain . 
'To have the goodness to walk off , if you please , rejoined the Manager , stretching forth his arm , 'and to carry your jargon somewhere else . 
Every knob in the Captain's face turned white with astonishment and indignation even the red rim on his forehead faded , like a rainbow among the gathering clouds . 
You belong to an artful and audacious set of people . 
If Mr Dombey were here , Captain , you might be obliged to leave in a more ignominious manner , possibly . 
What have you done with your absent friend , hey ? Again the Captain laid his hand upon his chest . 
After drawing another deep breath , he conjured himself to 'stand by ! But In a whisper . 
Not like your discretion ! You conspirators , and hiders , and runners away , should know better than that . 
My young friend , Wal'r , was drownded only last night , according to my reckoning , and it puts me out , you see . 
But you and me will come alongside o'one another again , my lad , said the Captain , holding up his hook , if we live . 
Good day ! said Mr Carker , nodding his head . 
Passion seemed not only to do wrong and violence to the memory of the dead , but to be infected by death , and to droop and decline beside it . 
All the living knaves and liars in the world , were nothing to the honesty and truth of one dead friend . 
In this altered form , the Captain received Mr Toots . 
'I'm took aback , my lad , at present , said the Captain , 'and will only confirm that there ill news . 
The Captain reserved , until some fitter time , the consideration of Mr Toots's offer of friendship , and thus dismissed him . 
As evening came on , he fell into a better frame of mind , however and spoke much of Walter to Rob the Grinder , whose attention and fidelity he likewise incidentally commended . 
Contrasts Turn we our eyes upon two homes not lying side by side , but wide apart , though both within easy range and reach of the great city of London . 
The first is situated in the green and wooded country near Norwood . 
It is not a mansion it is of no pretensions as to size but it is beautifully arranged , and tastefully kept . 
This indication is not without warrant for , within , it is a house of refinement and luxury . 
And yet amidst this opulence of comfort , there is something in the general air that is not well . 
'A most extraordinary accidental likeness , certainly , says he . 
Perhaps it is a Juno perhaps a Potiphar's Wife' perhaps some scornful Nymph according as the Picture Dealers found the market , when they christened it . 
It is the figure of a woman , supremely handsome , who , turning away , but with her face addressed to the spectator , flashes her proud glance upon him . 
With a passing gesture of his hand at the picture what ! a menace ? No yet something like it . 
A wave as of triumph ? No yet more like that . 
The neighbourhood in which it stands has as little of the country to recommend'it , as it has of the town . 
It is neither of the town nor country . 
She who inhabits it , is she who left the first in her devotion to an outcast brother . 
'It is early , John , she said . 
'Why do you go so early ? 'Not many minutes earlier than usual , Harriet . 
If I have the time to spare , I should like , I think it's a fancy to walk once by the house where I took leave of him . 
'I wish I had ever seen or known him , John . 
'It is better as it is , my dear , remembering his fate . 
'But I could not regret it more , though I had known him . 
Is not your sorrow mine ? And if I had , perhaps you would feel that I was a better companion to you in speaking about him , than I may seem now . 
'I feel that you did know him , Harriet , and that you shared my feelings towards him . 
She drew the hand which had been resting on his shoulder , round his neck , and answered , with some hesitation 'No , not quite . 
'True , true ! he said 'you think I might have done him no harm if I had allowed myself to know him better ? 'Think ! I know it . 
'Designedly , Heaven knows I would not , he replied , shaking his head mournfully 'but his reputation was too precious to be perilled by such association . 
Whether you share that knowledge , or do not , my dear 'I do not , she said quietly . 
'It is still the truth , Harriet , and my mind is lighter when I think of him for that which made it so much heavier then . 
Her pensive form was not long idle at the door . 
After knocking once at the door , and obtaining no response , this gentleman sat down on a bench in the little porch to wait . 
He rose up as she advanced , and stood with his head uncovered . 
'You are come again , Sir ! she said , faltering . 
'I take that liberty , he answered . 
'May I ask for five minutes of your leisure ? After a moment's hesitation , she opened the door , and gave him admission to the little parlour . 
You signified to me , when I called t'other morning , that you were . 
Pardon me if I say that I looked into your face while you spoke , and that it contradicted you . 
I look into it again , he added , laying his hand gently on her arm , for an instant , 'and it contradicts you more and more . 
She was somewhat confused and agitated , and could make no ready answer . 
'It is the mirror of truth , said her visitor , 'and gentleness . 
Excuse my trusting to it , and returning . 
His manner of saying these words , divested them entirely of the character of compliments . 
It was so plain , grave , unaffected , and sincere , that she bent her head , as if at once to thank him , and acknowledge his sincerity . 
'The disparity between our ages , said the gentleman , 'and the plainness of my purpose , empower me , I am glad to think , to speak my mind . 
That is my mind and so you see me for the second time . 
'There is a kind of pride , Sir , she returned , after a moment's silence , 'or what may be supposed to be pride , which is mere duty . 
I hope I cherish no other . 
'For yourself , he said . 
'But pardon me suggested the gentleman . 
'For heaven's sake , don't suppose 'I am sure , she said , 'you revived it , in my hearing , with a kind and good purpose . 
I am quite sure of it . 
'I thank you , returned her visitor , pressing her hand hastily . 
'I am much obliged to you . 
You do me justice , I assure you . 
You know the time was , when I was not when I could not be but that is past . 
'Your brother is an altered man , returned the gentleman , compassionately . 
'I assure you I don't doubt it . 
'He was an altered man when he did wrong , said Harriet . 
'He is an altered man again , and is his true self now , believe me , Sir . 
They they're a metaphysical sort of thing . 
We we haven't leisure for it . 
They're not taught at schools or colleges , and we don't know how to set about it . 
One don't see anything , one don't hear anything , one don't know anything that's the fact . 
We go on taking everything for granted , and so we go on , until whatever we do , good , bad , or indifferent , we do from habit . 
Habit is all I shall have to report , when I am called upon to plead to my conscience , on my death bed . 
''Habit , says I ''I was deaf , dumb , blind , and paralytic , to a million things , from habit . 
'Miss Harriet , he said , resuming his chair , 'I wish you would let me serve you . 
Look at me I ought to look honest , for I know I am so , at present . 
Do I ? 'Yes , she answered with a smile . 
'I believe every word you have said , he returned . 
I hardly know how I ever got here creature that I am , not only of my own habit , but of other people'sl But having done so , let me do something . 
I ask it in all honour and respect . 
You inspire me with both , in the highest degree . 
'We are contented , Sir . 
'No , no , not quite , returned the gentleman . 
There are some little comforts that might smooth your life , and his . 
And his ! he repeated , fancying that had made some impression on her . 
Let me do something for him . 
You too , said the visitor , with careful delicacy , 'have need to watch your health closely , for his sake , and I fear it fails . 
'Whoever you may be , Sir , answered Harriet , raising her eyes to his face , 'I am deeply grateful to you . 
I feel certain that in all you say , you have no object in the world but kindness to us . 
I thank you better with these tears than any words . 
The gentleman was moved , and put the hand she held out , to his lips , much as a tender father might kiss the hand of a dutiful child . 
'If the day should ever come , said Harriet , 'when he is restored , in part , to the position he lost 'Restored ! cried the gentleman , quickly . 
'You touch upon a subject that is never breathed between us not even between us , said Harriet . 
'I beg your forgiveness , said the visitor . 
'I should have known it . 
I entreat you to forget that I have done so , inadvertently . 
'What are they ? she inquired . 
'The first , that if you should see cause to change your resolution , you will suffer me to be as your right hand . 
My name shall then be at your service it is useless now , and always insignificant . 
'Our choice of friends , she answered , smiling faintly , 'is not so great , that I need any time for consideration . 
I don't ask to come in , as your brother will be gone out at that hour . 
I don't ask to speak to you . 
The cordial face looked up in his confided in it and promised . 
Many half forgotten emotions were awakened in the sister's mind by this visit . 
Day after day , such travellers crept past , but always , as she thought , In one direction always towards the town . 
Swallowed up in one phase or other of its immensity , towards which they seemed impelled by a desperate fascination , they never returned . 
She was in the act of doing so , when Harriet observed her . 
Thinking of this , she did not turn away with a delicate indignation too many of her own compassionate and tender sex too often do but pitied her . 
She was now opposite the house raising her head after resting it for a moment on both hands , her eyes met those of Harriet . 
In a moment , Harriet was at the door and the other , rising from her seat at her beck , came slowly , and with no conciliatory look , towards her . 
'Why do you rest in the rain ? said Harriet , gently . 
'Because I have no other resting place , was the reply . 
'But there are many places of shelter near here . 
This , referring to the little porch , 'is better than where you were . 
You are very welcome to rest here . 
Harriet uttering an expression of pity , the traveller looked up with a contemptuous and incredulous smile . 
'Why , what's a torn foot to such as me ? she said . 
The woman caught her arm , and drawing it before her own eyes , hid them against it , and wept . 
She submitted to be led into the house , and , evidently more in gratitude than in any care for herself , washed and bound the injured place . 
, to dry her clothes before the fire . 
'I daresay you are thinking , she said , lifting her head suddenly , 'that I used to be handsome , once . 
'Are you a stranger in this place ? asked Harriet . 
'A stranger ! she returned , stopping between each short reply , and looking at the fire . 
Ten or a dozen years a stranger . 
I have had no almanack where I have been . 
Ten or a dozen years . 
I don't know this part . 
It's much altered since I went away . 
'Have you been far ? 'Very far . 
Months upon months over the sea , and far away even then . 
I have been where convicts go , she added , looking full upon her entertainer . 
'I have been one myself . 
'Heaven help you and forgive you ! was the gentle answer . 
'Ah ! Heaven help me and forgive me ! she returned , nodding her head at the fire . 
'If man would help some of us a little more , God would forgive us all the sooner perhaps . 
If I am older , it is not above a year or two . 
'There is nothing we may not hope to repair it is never too late to amend , said Harriet . 
'You are penitent 'No , she answered . 
'I am not ! I can't be . 
I am no such thing . 
Why should I be penitent , and all the world go free ? They talk to me of my penitence . 
Who's penitent for the wrongs that have been done to me ? She rose up , bound her handkerchief about her head , and turned to move away . 
'Where are you going ? said Harriet . 
'Yonder , she answered , pointing with her hand . 
'Have you any home to go to ? 'I think I have a mother . 
She's as much a mother , as her dwelling is a home , she answered with a bitter laugh . 
'Take this , cried Harriet , putting money in her hand . 
It is very little , but for one day it may keep you from harm . 
'Are you married ? said the other , faintly , as she took it . 
I live here with my brother . 
We have not much to spare , or I would give you more . 
Once more she caught her arm , and covered her eyes with it and then was gone . 
There was no light in the room save that which the fire afforded . 
Glaring sullenly from time to time like the eye of a fierce beast half asleep , it revealed no objects that needed to be jealous of a better display . 
But Florence was not there to look on and Good Mrs Brown remained unrecognised , and sat staring at her fire , unobserved . 
Attracted by a louder sputtering than usual , as the rain came hissing down the chimney in a little stream , the old woman raised her head , impatiently , to listen afresh . 
And this time she did not drop it again for there was a hand upon the door , and a footstep in the room . 
'Who's that ? she said , looking over her shoulder . 
'One who brings you news , was the answer , in a woman's voice . 
'News ? Where from ? 'From abroad . 
'From beyond seas ? cried the old woman , starting up . 
'Ay , from beyond seas . 
She did not find what she had expected , whatever that might be for she let the cloak go again , and uttered a querulous cry of disappointment and misery . 
'What is the matter ? asked her visitor . 
'Oho ! Oho ! cried the old woman , turning her face upward , with a terrible howl . 
'What is the matter ? asked the visitor again . 
'It's not my gal ! cried the old woman , tossing up her arms , and clasping her hands above her head . 
'Where's my Alice ? Where's my handsome daughter ? They've been the death of her ! 'They've not been the death of her yet , if your name's Marwood , said the visitor . 
'Have you seen my gal , then ? cried the old woman . 
'Has she wrote to me ? 'She said you couldn't read , returned the other . 
'No more I can ! exclaimed the old woman , wringing her hands . 
'Have you no light here ? said the other , looking round the room . 
'She sent to me by word of mouth then , my gal , Alice ? mumbled the old woman , after waiting for some moments . 
'What did she say ? 'Look , returned the visitor . 
The old woman repeated the word in a scared uncertain way and , shading her eyes , looked at the speaker , round the room , and at the speaker once again . 
'Alice said look again , mother and the speaker fixed her eyes upon her . 
Again the old woman looked round the room , and at her visitor , and round the room once more . 
'Yes , mother , returned Alice , stooping forward for a moment and kissing her , but endeavouring , even in the act , to disengage herself from her embrace . 
'I am here , at last . 
Let go , mother let go . 
Get up , and sit in your chair . 
What good does this do ? 'She's come back harder than she went ! cried the mother , looking up in her face , and still holding to her knees . 
There have been years for me as well as you , and there has been wretchedness for me as well as you . 
Get up , get up ! Her mother rose , and cried , and wrung her hands , and stood at a little distance gazing on her . 
Then she took the candle again , and going round her , surveyed her from head to foot , making a low moaning all the time . 
Alice got up , took off her wet cloak , and laid it aside . 
'Did you expect to see me return as youthful as I went away , mother ? she said at length , turning her eyes upon the old woman . 
'Did you think a foreign life , like mine , was good for good looks ? One would believe so , to hear you ! 'It ain't that ! cried the mother . 
'She knows it ! 'What is it then ? returned the daughter . 
'It had best be something that don't last , mother , or my way out is easier than my way in . 
'Hear that ! exclaimed the mother . 
'Come back harder ? Of course I have come back harder . 
'Listen , mother , to a word or two . 
If we understand each other now , we shall not fall out any more , perhaps . 
I went away a girl , and have come back a woman . 
I went away undutiful enough , and have come back no better , you may swear . 
But have you been very dutiful to me ? 'I ! cried the old woman . 
I have heard some talk about duty first and last but it has always been of my duty to other people . 
I have wondered now and then to pass away the time whether no one ever owed any duty to me . 
Her mother sat mowing , and mumbling , and shaking her head , but whether angrily or remorsefully , or in denial , or only in her physical infirmity , did not appear . 
Nobody taught her , nobody stepped forward to help her , nobody cared for her . 
'Nobody ! echoed the mother , pointing to herself , and striking her breast . 
'The only care she knew , returned the daughter , 'was to be beaten , and stinted , and abused sometimes and she might have done better without that . 
She lived in homes like this , and in the streets , with a crowd of little wretches like herself and yet she brought good looks out of this childhood . 
So much the worse for her . 
She had better have been hunted and worried to death for ugliness . 
'Go on ! go on ! exclaimed the mother . 
'I am going on , returned the daughter . 
'There was a girl called Alice Marwood . 
She was taught too late , and taught all wrong . 
She was too well cared for , too well trained , too well helped on , too much looked after . 
You were very fond of her you were better off then . 
What came to that girl comes to thousands every year . 
It was only ruin , and she was born to it . 
'After all these years ! whined the old woman . 
'My gal begins with this . 
'She'll soon have ended , said the daughter . 
'There was a criminal called Alice Marwood a girl still , but deserted and an outcast . 
And she was tried , and she was sentenced . 
And Alice Marwood is come back a woman . 
Such a woman as she ought to be , after all this . 
There's crowds of little wretches , boy and girl , growing up in any of the streets they live in , that'll keep them to it till they've made their fortunes . 
The old woman leaned her elbows on the table , and resting her face upon her two hands , made a show of being in great distress or really was , perhaps . 
'There ! I have done , mother , said the daughter , with a motion of her head , as if in dismissal of the subject . 
Don't let you and I talk of being dutiful , whatever we do . 
Your childhood was like mine , I suppose . 
So much the worse for both of us . 
I don't want to blame you , or to defend myself why should I ? That's all over long ago . 
But I am a woman not a girl , now and you and I needn't make a show of our history , like the gentlemen in the Court . 
We know all about it , well enough . 
'You are very poor , mother , I see , said Alice , looking round , when she had sat thus for some time . 
'Bitter poor , my deary , replied the old woman . 
She admired her daughter , and was afraid of her . 
Perhaps her admiration , such as it was , had originated long ago , when she first found anything that was beautiful appearing in the midst of the squalid fight of her existence . 
Perhaps her fear was referable , in some sort , to the retrospect she had so lately heard . 
'How have you lived ? 'By begging , my deary . 
'And pilfering , mother ? 'Sometimes , Ally in a very small way . 
I am old and timid . 
I have taken trifles from children now and then , my deary , but not often . 
I have tramped about the country , pet , and I know what I know . 
'Watched ? returned the daughter , looking at her . 
'I have hung about a family , my deary , said the mother , even more humbly and submissively than before . 
'What family ? 'Hush , darling . 
Don't be angry with me . 
I did it for the love of you . 
In memory of my poor gal beyond seas . 
She put out her hand deprecatingly , and drawing it back again , laid it on her lips . 
'Years ago , my deary , she pursued , glancing timidly at the attentive and stem face opposed to her , 'I came across his little child , by chance . 
'Whose child ? 'Not his , Alice deary don't look at me like that not his . 
How could it be his ? You know he has none . 
'Whose then ? returned the daughter . 
'Hush , Ally you frighten me , deary . 
Mr Dombey's only Mr Dombey's . 
Since then , darling , I have seen them often . 
In uttering this last word , the old woman shrunk and recoiled , as if with sudden fear that her daughter would strike her . 
'Little he thought who I was ! said the old woman , shaking her clenched hand . 
'And little he cared ! muttered her daughter , between her teeth . 
'But there we were , said the old woman , 'face to face . 
I spoke to him , and he spoke to me . 
I sat and watched him as he went away down a long grove of trees and at every step he took , I cursed him soul and body . 
'He will thrive in spite of that , returned the daughter disdainfully . 
'Ay , he is thriving , said the mother . 
She held her peace for the face and form before her were unshaped by rage . 
It seemed as if the bosom would burst with the emotions that strove within it . 
The effort that constrained and held it pent up , was no less formidable than the rage itself no less bespeaking the violent and dangerous character of the woman who made it . 
But it succeeded , and she asked , after a silence 'Is he married ? 'No , deary , said the mother . 
'Going to be ? 'Not that I know of , deary . 
But his master and friend is married . 
Oh , we may give him joy ! We may give 'em all joy ! cried the old woman , hugging herself with her lean arms in her exultation . 
'Nothing but joy to us will come of that marriage . 
Mind met' The daughter looked at her for an explanation . 
'Is that all ? said the mother . 
I should not have this , but for charity . 
'Humph ! six and six is twelve , and six eighteen so we must make the most of it . 
I'll go buy something to eat and drink . 
'What joy is to come to us of this marriage , mother ? asked the daughter . 
'You have not told me that . 
'The joy , she replied , attiring herself , with fumbling fingers , 'of no love at all , and much pride and hate , my deary . 
The joy of confusion and strife among 'em , proud as they are , and of danger danger , Alice ! 'What danger ? 'I have seen what I have seen . 
I know what I know ! chuckled the mother . 
'Let some look to it . 
Let some be upon their guard . 
As she stood with her hand stretched out before her daughter , her daughter , glancing again at the money , put it to her lips before parting with it . 
'What , Ally ! Do you kiss it ? chuckled the old woman . 
'That's like me I often do . 
'The giver , eh , deary ? retorted the old woman , whose dimmed eyes glistened as she took it . 
'Ay ! I'll kiss it for the giver's sake , too , when the giver can make it go farther . 
But I'll go spend it , deary . 
'You seem to say you know a great deal , mother , said the daughter , following her to the door with her eyes . 
'You have grown very wise since we parted . 
I know all' The daughter smiled incredulously . 
'Where ? 'By the north road out of London , deary . 
You shall see the house if you like . 
It ain't much to boast of , genteel as his own is . 
But I'll go spend 'Stop ! and the daughter flung herself upon her , with her former passion raging like a fire . 
'The sister is a fair faced Devil , with brown hair ? The old woman , amazed and terrified , nodded her head . 
'I see the shadow of him in her face ! It's a red house standing by itself . 
Before the door there is a small green porch . 
Again the old woman nodded . 
'In which I sat to day ! Give me back the money . 
'Alice ! Deary ! 'Give me back the money , or you'll be hurt . 
The mother followed , limping after her as she could , and expostulating with no more effect upon her than upon the wind and rain and darkness that encompassed them . 
If the mother now and then uttered a word of complaint , she stifled it lest her daughter should break away from her and leave her behind and the daughter was dumb . 
The town lay in the distance , lurid and lowering the bleak wind howled over the open space all around was black , wild , desolate . 
'This is a fit place for me ! said the daughter , stopping to look back . 
'I thought so , when I was here before , to day . 
'Alice , my deary , cried the mother , pulling her gently by the skirt . 
'Alice ! 'What now , mother ? 'Don't give the money back , my darling please don't . 
We want supper , deary . 
Money is money , whoever gives it . 
Say what you will , but keep the money . 
'See there ! was all the daughter's answer . 
'That is the house I mean . 
Is that it ? The old woman nodded in the affirmative and a few more paces brought them to the threshold . 
There was the light of fire and candle in the room where Alice had sat to dry her clothes and on her knocking at the door , John Carker appeared from that room . 
He was surprised to see such visitors at such an hour , and asked Alice what she wanted . 
'I want your sister , she said . 
'The woman who gave me money to day . 
At the sound of her raised voice , Harriet came out . 
'You are here ! Do you remember me ? 'Yes , she answered , wondering . 
'What do you mean ? What have I done ? 'Done ! returned the other . 
Supperless to bed she went , saving for a few coarse fragments and those she sat mumbling and munching over a scrap of fire , long after her undutiful daughter lay asleep . 
The Happy Pair The dark blot on the street is gone . 
The saying is , that home is home , be it never so homely . 
It is the first time that the house has been arranged for occupation since its late changes , and the happy pair are looked for every minute . 
Only second to the wedding morning , in the interest and expectation it engenders among the household , is this evening of the coming home . 
Mrs Skewton , prepared to greet her darling daughter and dear son in law with open arms , is appropriately attired for that purpose in a very youthful costume , with short sleeves . 
'My sweetest Edith ! cries an agitated voice upon the stairs . 
'My dearest Dombey ! and the short sleeves wreath themselves about the happy couple in turn , and embrace them . 
Florence had come down to the hall too , but did not advance reserving her timid welcome until these nearer and dearer transports should subside . 
But the eyes of Edith sought her out , upon the threshold and dismissing her sensitive parent with a slight kiss on the cheek , she hurried on to Florence and embraced her . 
'How do you do , Florence ? said Mr Dombey , putting out his hand . 
As Florence , trembling , raised it to her lips , she met his glance . 
The look was cold and distant enough , but it stirred her heart to think that she observed in it something more of interest than he had ever shown before . 
It even expressed a kind of faint surprise , and not a disagreeable surprise , at sight of her . 
She dared not raise her eyes to his any more but she felt that he looked at her once again , and not less favourably . 
'I shall be ready immediately . 
'Let them send up dinner in a quarter of an hour . 
With that Mr Dombey stalked away to his own dressing room , and Mrs Dombey went upstairs to hers . 
'And how , my dearest Dombey , did you find that delightfullest of cities , Paris ? she asked , subduing her emotion . 
'It was cold , returned Mr Dombey . 
'Gay as ever , said Mrs Skewton , 'of course . 
I thought it dull , said Mr Dombey . 
'Fie , my dearest Dombey ! archly 'dull ! 'It made that impression upon me , Madam , said Mr Dombey , with grave politeness . 
'I believe Mrs Dombey found it dull too . 
She mentioned once or twice that she thought it so . 
'My dear Dombey , said Mrs Skewton , 'how charmingly these people have carried out every idea that we hinted . 
They have made a perfect palace of the house , positively . 
'It is handsome , said Mr Dombey , looking round . 
'I directed that no expense should be spared and all that money could do , has been done , I believe . 
'And what can it not do , dear Dombey ? observed Cleopatra . 
'It is powerful , Madam , said Mr Dombey . 
He looked in his solemn way towards his wife , but not a word said she . 
'They should be so , of' course . 
And I suppose they are . 
But dinner was announced , and Mr Dombey led down Cleopatra Edith and his daughter following . 
Mr Dombey , being a good deal in the statue way himself , was well enough pleased to see his handsome wife immovable and proud and cold . 
Her deportment being always elegant and graceful , this as a general behaviour was agreeable and congenial to him . 
Edith , also , silently withdrew and came back' no more . 
Shall I go away , Papa ? said Florence faintly , hesitating at the door . 
'No , returned Mr Dombey , looking round over his shoulder you can come and go here , Florence , as you please . 
This is not my private room . 
She yearned towards him , and yet shrunk from his approach . 
The sight ofher in her beauty , almost changed into a woman without his knowledge , may have struck out some such moments even In his life of pride . 
Meaner and lower thoughts , as that his dead boy was now superseded by new ties , and he could forgive the having been supplanted in his affection , may have occasioned them . 
The mere association of her as an ornament , with all the ornament and pomp about him , may have been sufficient . 
But as he looked , he softened to her , more and more . 
As he looked , she became blended with the child he had loved , and he could hardly separate the two . 
He felt inclined to speak to her , and call her to him . 
She had exchanged her dinner dress for a loose robe , and unbound her hair , which fell freely about her neck . 
But this was not the change in her that startled him . 
'Florence , dear , she said , 'I have been looking for you everywhere . 
As she sat down by the side of Florence , she stooped and kissed her hand . 
He hardly knew his wife . 
She looked towards the corner where he was , and he knew that face and manner very well . 
'I scarcely thought you could be here , Florence . 
Again , how altered and how softened , in an instant ! 'I left here early , pursued Edith , 'purposely to sit upstairs and talk with you . 
But , going to your room , I found my bird was flown , and I have been waiting there ever since , expecting its return . 
If it had been a bird , indeed , she could not have taken it more tenderly and gently to her breast , than she did Florence . 
'Come , dear ! 'Papa will not expect to find me , I suppose , when he wakes , hesitated Florence . 
'Do you think he will , Florence ? said Edith , looking full upon her . 
Florence drooped her head , and rose , and put up her work basket Edith drew her hand through her arm , and they went out of the room like sisters . 
Her very step was different and new to him' Mr Dombey thought , as his eyes followed her to the door . 
He sat in his shadowy corner so long , that the church clocks struck the hour three times before he moved that night . 
All that while his face was still intent upon the spot where Florence had been seated . 
The room grew darker , as the candles waned and went out but a darkness gathered on his face , exceeding any that the night could cast , and rested there . 
Florence and Edith , seated before the fire in the remote room where little Paul had died , talked together for a long time . 
It turned , at first , on Florence's books and favourite pursuits , and on the manner in which she had beguiled the interval since the marriage . 
'You a great sorrow , Florence ! 'Yes . 
Florence spread her hands before her face , and wept with all her heart . 
Many as were the secret tears which Walter's fate had cost her , they flowed yet , when she thought or spoke of him . 
'But tell me , dear , said Edith , soothing her . 
'Who was Walter ? What was he to you ? 'He was my brother , Mama . 
After dear Paul died , we said we would be brother and sister . 
I had known him a long time from a little child . 
'And did he take care of Walter ? inquired Edith , sternly . 
'Papa ? He appointed him to go abroad . 
He was drowned in shipwreck on his voyage , said Florence , sobbing . 
'Does he know that he is dead ? asked Edith . 
'I cannot tell , Mama . 
I have no means of knowing . 
Dear Mama ! cried Florence , clinging to her as for help , and hiding her face upon her bosom , 'I know that you have seen 'Stay ! Stop , Florence . 
Edith turned so pale , and spoke so earnestly , that Florence did not need her restraining hand upon her lips . 
'Tell me all about Walter first let me understand this history all through . 
I have never known how to be . 
I have missed the way , and had no one to show it to me . 
'That I should teach you how to love , or be loved , Heaven forbid ! said Edith . 
'If you could teach me , that were better but it is too late . 
You are dear to me , Florence . 
I did not think that anything could ever be so dear to me , as you are in this little time . 
She saw that Florence would have spoken here , so checked her with her hand , and went on . 
'I will be your true friend always . 
I will cherish you , as much , if not as well as anyone in this world could . 
You may trust in me I know it and I say it , dear , with the whole confidence even of your pure heart . 
'I know it , dear Mama ! cried Florence . 
'From that first most happy day I have known it . 
'Most happy day ! Edith seemed to repeat the words involuntarily , and went on . 
'Though the merit is not mine , for I thought little of you until I saw you , let the undeserved reward be mine in your trust and love . 
Florence , without knowing why , felt almost afraid to hear her proceed , but kept her eyes riveted on the beautiful face so fixed upon her own . 
'Never seek to find in me , said Edith , laying her hand upon her breast , 'what is not here . 
Never if you can help it , Florence , fall off from me because it is not here . 
Little by little you will know me better , and the time will come when you will know me , as I know myself . 
Then , be as lenient to me as you can , and do not turn to bitterness the only sweet remembrance I shall have . 
There should be , so far , a division , and a silence between us two , like the grave itself . 
She shaded it , after this change , with her hands and when she arose , and with an affectionate embrace bade Florence good night , went quickly , and without looking round . 
In her sleep , however , Florence could not lose an undefined impression of what had so recently passed . 
It formed the subject of her dreams , and haunted her now in one shape , now in another but always oppressively and with a sense of fear . 
In the terror of this dream , she cried out and awoke , she thought . 
So passed the night on which the happy pair came home . 
As for his home , she hoped it would become a better one , when its state of novelty and transition should be over and for herself , thought little and lamented less . 
If none of the new family were particularly at home in private , it was resolved that Mrs Dombey at least should be at home in public , without delay . 
It seemed greatly to delight and exhilarate him to say so and he beamed on his audience afterwards , with his hands in his pockets , and excessive satisfaction twinkling in his eyes . 
When they entered together , the shadow of the night of the return again darkened Mr Dombey's face . 
But unobserved for Florence did not venture to raise her eyes to his , and Edith's indifference was too supreme to take the least heed of him . 
The arrivals quickly became numerous . 
Cousin Feenix was in great force , and looked astonishingly young . 
But he was sometimes thoughtless in his good humour his memory occasionally wandering like his legs and on this occasion caused the company to shudder . 
, whether that might not be considered public property . 
'Why , upon my life , said Cousin Feenix , 'there's nothing in it it really is not worth repeating in point of fact , it's merely an anecdote of Jack Adams . 
I dare say my friend Dombey for the general attention was concentrated on Cousin Feenix 'may remember Jack Adams , Jack Adams , not Joe that was his brother . 
Jack little Jack man with a cast in his eye , and slight impediment in his speech man who sat for somebody's borough . 
We used to call him in my parliamentary time W. P. Adams , in consequence of his being Warming Pan for a young fellow who was in his minority . 
Perhaps my friend Dombey may have known the man ? Mr Dombey , who was as likely to have known Guy Fawkes , replied in the negative . 
Joe wore 'Tops ! cried the mild man , rising in public estimation every Instant . 
'Of course , said Cousin Feenix , 'you were intimate with em ? 'I knew them both , said the mild man . 
With whom Mr Dombey immediately took wine . 
'Devilish good fellow , Jack ! said Cousin Feenix , again bending forward , and smiling . 
'Excellent , returned the mild man , becoming bold on his success . 
'One of the best fellows I ever knew . 
'No doubt you have heard the story ? said Cousin Feenix . 
'I shall know , replied the bold mild man , 'when I have heard your Ludship tell it . 
With that , he leaned back in his chair and smiled at the ceiling , as knowing it by heart , and being already tickled . 
But it's illustrative of the neatness of Jack's humour . 
The fact is , that Jack was invited down to a marriage which I think took place in Berkshire ? 'Shropshire , said the bold mild man , finding himself appealed to . 
'Was it ? Well ! In point of fact it might have been in any shire , said Cousin Feenix . 
'So my friend being invited down to this marriage in Anyshire , with a pleasant sense of the readiness of this joke , 'goes . 
It's a perfectly and equal transaction . 
Not a smile occasioned by the only general topic of conversation broached that day , appeared on any face . 
There was a rapid glance from Edith towards Florence , but otherwise she remained , externally , impassive and unconscious . 
But all these sights were of short duration , being speedily broken up by coffee , and the desertion of the room . 
Florence had a dread of him , which made his presence in the room a nightmare to her . 
She could not avoid the recollection of it , for her eyes were drawn towards him every now and then , by an attraction of dislike and distrust that she could not resist . 
Mrs Chick had some such thoughts too , but they were not so quietly developed in her mind . 
This good matron had been outraged in the first instance by not receiving an invitation to dinner . 
'Does it at all appear as if I was wanted here ? exclaimed Mrs Chick , with flashing eyes . 
'No , my dear , I don't think it does , said Mr Chic 'Paul's mad ! said Mrs Chic Mr Chick whistled . 
'Unless you are a monster , which I sometimes think you are , said Mrs Chick with candour , 'don't sit there humming tunes . 
'But I hope I know what is due to myself , said Mrs Chick , swelling with indignation , 'though Paul has forgotten what is due to me . 
I am not going to sit here , a member of this family , to be taken no notice of . 
I am not the dirt under Mrs Dombey's feet , yet not quite yet , said Mrs Chick , as if she expected to become so , about the day after to morrow . 
that this affair has been got up solely to degrade and insult me . 
And it is due to her penetration to observe that she certainly was not missed at all . 
, confidentially alleged to thirty or forty friends that she was bored to death . 
The general opinion among this class of gentlemen was , that it was a weak thing in Dombey , and he'd live to repent it . 
The general dissatisfaction and discomfort so diffused itself , that the assembled footmen in the hall were as well acquainted with it as the company above . 
Nay , the very linkmen outside got hold of it , and compared the party to a funeral out of mourning , with none of the company remembered in the will . 
Mr Dombey having finished his communication to Carker , the latter advanced obsequiously to take leave . 
'I trust , he said , 'that the fatigues of this delightful evening will not inconvenience Mrs Dombey to morrow . 
'Mrs Dombey , said Mr Dombey , advancing , 'has sufficiently spared herself fatigue , to relieve you from any anxiety of that kind . 
I regret to say , Mrs Dombey , that I could have wished you had fatigued yourself a little more on this occasion . 
She looked at him with a supercilious glance , that it seemed not worth her while to protract , and turned away her eyes without speaking . 
'I am sorry , Madam , said Mr Dombey , 'that you should not have thought it your duty She looked at him again . 
'Your duty , Madam , pursued Mr Dombey , 'to have received my friends with a little more deference . 
'Do you know that there is someone here ? she returned , now looking at him steadily . 
'No ! Carker ! I beg that you do not . 
I insist that you do not , cried Mr Dombey , stopping that noiseless gentleman in his withdrawal . 
'Mr Carker , Madam , as you know , possesses my confidence . 
He is as well acquainted as myself with the subject on which I speak . 
Slight and unimportant as this difference is Mrs Skewton , who had been intent upon her daughter's face , took him up here . 
has used the very words that were in my mind , and that I have been dying , these ages , for an opportunity of introducing . 
Slight and unimportant ! My sweetest Edith , and my dearest Dombey , do we not know that any difference between you two No , Flowers not now . 
Flowers was the maid , who , finding gentlemen present , retreated with precipitation . 
, Mr Dombey would have been equal to some assertion of his case against her . 
More Warnings than One Florence , Edith , and Mrs Skewton were together next day , and the carriage was waiting at the door to take them out . 
The hair of Withers was radiant with pomatum , in these days of down , and he wore kid gloves and smelt of the water of Cologne . 
'I think I am a little nervous this morning , Flowers , said Mrs Skewton . 
'You were the life of the party last night , Ma'am , you know , returned Flowers , and you suffer for it , to day , you see . 
'Card , Ma'am , said Withers , taking it towards Mrs Dombey . 
'I am going out , she said without looking at it . 
'My dear love , drawled Mrs Skewton , 'how very odd to send that message without seeing the name ! Bring it here , Withers . 
Get along with you , and shut it on him . 
But the servant came back after a short absence , and whispered to Withers again , who once more , and not very willingly , presented himself before Mrs Dombey . 
'If you please , Ma'am , Mr Carker sends his respectful compliments , and begs you would spare him one minute , if you could for business , Ma'am , if you please . 
As Withers disappeared to execute the command , she added , frowning on her mother , 'As he comes at your recommendation , let him come to your room . 
'May I shall I go away ? asked Florence , hurriedly . 
Edith nodded yes , but on her way to the door Florence met the visitor coming in . 
He then bowed himself for a moment over Mrs Skewton's condescending hand , and lastly bowed to Edith . 
Coldly returning his salute without looking at him , and neither seating herself nor inviting him to be seated , she waited for him to speak . 
'I have no message to the lady who sheds a lustre upon his name , said Mr Carker . 
'My dearest Edith , hinted Cleopatra in a low voice , as she held her eye glass aside , 'really very charming of Mr What's his name . 
So slight a difference , as between the principals between those who love each other with disinterested devotion , and would make any sacrifice of self in such a cause is nothing . 
As Mrs Skewton herself expressed , with so much truth and feeling last night , it is nothing . 
Edith , in spite of herself sat down , and slightly motioned with her hand to him to be seated too . 
That was enough ! Mr Carker sat down . 
She looked at him now . 
'Miss Florence's position , he began , 'has been an unfortunate one . 
I have a difficulty in alluding to it to you , whose attachment to her father is naturally watchful and jealous of every word that applies to him . 
May I say by her father ? Edith replied , 'I know it . 
'You know it ! said Mr Carker , with a great appearance of relief . 
'It removes a mountain from my breast . 
'Indeed , I am sensible , Madam , replied Carker , 'trust me , I am deeply sensible , that Mr Dombey can require no justification in anything to you . 
But , kindly judge of my breast by your own , and you will forgive my interest in him , if in its excess , it goes at all astray . 
'I have heard the circumstances , Sir , said Edith , flashing her disdainful glance upon him , 'and I know that you pervert them . 
You may not know it . 
She raised her eyes no higher than his mouth , but she saw the means of mischief vaunted in every tooth it contained . 
'Pardon me , Madam , he continued , 'if in my perplexity , I presume to take counsel with you , and to consult your pleasure . 
Edith raised her head quickly , and starting back , bent her dark glance upon him . 
He met it with his blandest and most deferential smile , and went on . 
'You say that as I describe them , they are perverted . 
I fear not I fear not but let us assume that they are . 
of separation and alienation of her from his home . 
He saw it and though his expression did not change , she knew he saw it . 
'Even so slight an incident as last night's , he said , 'if I might refer to it once more , would serve to illustrate my meaning , better than a greater one . 
Dombey and Son know neither time , nor place , nor season , but bear them all down . 
Madam , in the midst of my uneasiness and apprehension on this subject , I was summoned by Mr Dombey to Leamington . 
There I could not help knowing what relation you would shortly occupy towards him to his enduring happiness and yours . 
There I resolved to await the time of your establishment at home here , and to do as I have now done . 
I can acquit my conscience therefore , almost equally , by confidence , on such a theme , in you or him . 
For the reasons I have mentioned I would select you . 
At last she said 'I accept it , Sir You will please to consider this matter at an end , and that it goes no farther . 
He bowed low , and rose . 
She rose too , and he took leave with all humility . 
The people took her , when she rode out in her carriage presently , for a great lady , as happy as she was rich and fine . 
Therefore Mrs Skewton asked no questions , and showed no curiosity . 
'Well , Ma'am , replied the frightened maid , 'I hardly know . 
She's making faces ! Edith hurried with her to her mother's room . 
They took her to pieces in very shame , and put the little of her that was real on a bed . 
Doctors were sent for , and soon came . 
At length she began to recover consciousness , and in some degree the power of motion , though not yet of speech . 
The maid being perfectly transfixed , and with tolerable reason , Cleopatra amended the manuscript by adding two words more , when it stood thus 'Rose coloured curtains for doctors . 
She was soon able to sit up , in curls and a laced cap and nightgown , and to have a little artificial bloom dropped into the hollow caverns of her cheeks . 
'Where is Mrs Dombey ? she would say to her maid . 
'Gone out ! Does she go out to shun her Mama , Flowers ? 'La bless you , no , Ma'am . 
Mrs Dombey has only gone out for a ride with Miss Florence . 
Who's Miss Florence ? Don't tell me about Miss Florence . 
'Well , I am sure , Edith ! she would cry , shaking her head . 
'What is the matter , mother ? 'Matter ! I really don't know what is the matter . 
The world is coming to such an artificial and ungrateful state , that I begin to think there's no Heart or anything of that sort left in it , positively . 
Withers is more a child to me than you are . 
He attends to me much more than my own daughter . 
I almost wish I didn't look so young and all that kind of thing and then perhaps I should be more considered . 
'What would you have , mother ? 'Oh , a great deal , Edith , impatiently . 
'Is there anything you want that you have not ? It is your own fault if there be . 
'My own fault ! beginning to whimper . 
'Mother , mother , I reproach you with nothing . 
Have you no remembrance of what has been said between us ? Let the Past rest . 
'As you would have had with that delightful good soul what did they call him ? Granger if he hadn't died . 
And who have you to thank for all this , Edith ? 'You , mother you . 
'Then put your arms round my neck , and kiss me and show me , Edith , that you know there never was a better Mama than I have been to you . 
with a face that even the rose coloured curtains could not make otherwise than scared and wild . 
But they never blushed upon a change in the new manner of her thought and speech towards her daughter . 
For a time the Bird Waltz was unheard in Princess's Place , the plants were neglected , and dust collected on the miniature of Miss Tox's ancestor with the powdered head and pigtail . 
Miss Tox , however , was not of an age or of a disposition long to abandon herself to unavailing regrets . 
Still , Miss Tox was lonely , and at a loss . 
Her attachments , however ludicrously shown , were real and strong and she was , as she expressed it , 'deeply hurt by the unmerited contumely she had met with from Louisa . 
But there was no such thing as anger in Miss Tox's composition . 
If she had ambled on through life , in her soft spoken way , without any opinions , she had , at least , got so far without any harsh passions . 
Against Mr Dombey Miss Tox hardly felt that she had any reason of complaint . 
No wife could be too handsome or too stately for him , according to Miss Tox's sincere opinion . 
It was perfectly natural that in looking for one , he should look high . 
Miss Tox with tears laid down this proposition , and fully admitted it , twenty times a day . 
, Miss Tox found it very irksome to know nothing of what was going on in Mr Dombey's establishment . 
Mr Toodle had only three stages of existence . 
It's his right evening , and he's very regular . 
'He ain't got to be at all secret like has he , Polly ? inquired Mr Toodle . 
'No ! said Mrs Toodle , plumply . 
If you find yourselves in cuttings or in tunnels , don't you play no secret games . 
Keep your whistles going , and let's know where you are . 
The rising Toodles set up a shrill murmur , expressive of their resolution to profit by the paternal advice . 
'But what makes you say this along of Rob , father ? asked his wife , anxiously . 
'Polly , old ooman , said Mr Toodle , 'I don't know as I said it partickler along o' Rob , I'm sure . 
'Well , mother ! said Rob , dutifully kissing her 'how are you , mother ? 'There's my boy ! cried Polly , giving him a hug and a pat on the back . 
'What ! father's been a saying something more again me , has he ? cried the injured innocent . 
'If father didn't mean anything , blubbered the injured Grinder , 'why did he go and say anything , mother ? Nobody thinks half so bad of me as my own father does . 
What a unnatural thing ! I wish somebody'd take and chop my head off . 
Father wouldn't mind doing it , I believe , and I'd much rather he did that than t'other . 
Matters having reached this point , Mr Toodle explained , and the virtuous feelings of his son being thereby calmed , they shook hands , and harmony reigned again . 
'Will you do as I do , Biler , my boy ? inquired his father , returning to his tea with new strength . 
'No , thank'ee , father . 
Master and I had tea together . 
'And how is master , Rob ? said Polly . 
'Well , I don't know , mother not much to boast on . 
There ain't no bis'ness done , you see . 
He don't know anything about it the Cap'en don't . 
There was a man come into the shop this very day , and says , I want a so and so , he says some hard name or another . 
A which ? says the Cap'en . 
A so and so , says the man . 
Brother , says the Cap'en , will you take a observation round the shop . 
Well , says the man , I've done Do you see wot you want ? says the Cap'en No , I don't , says the man . 
Do you know it wen you do see it ? says the Cap'en . 
No , I don't , says the man . 
'Money , mother ! He'll never make money . 
He has such ways as I never see . 
He ain't a bad master though , I'll say that for him . 
But that ain't much to me , for I don't think I shall stop with him long . 
'Not stop in your place , Rob ! cried his mother while Mr Toodle opened his eyes . 
'Not in that place , p'raps , returned the Grinder , with a wink . 
'I shouldn't wonder friends at court you know but never you mind , mother , just now I'm all right , that's all . 
'How do you do , Mrs Richards ? said Miss Tox . 
'I have come to see you . 
Being released , his face was discovered to be very hot , and red , and damp and Miss Tox took him on her lap , much exhausted . 
'You have almost forgotten me , Sir , I daresay , said Miss Tox to Mr Toodle . 
'No , Ma'am , no , said Toodle . 
'But we've all on us got a little older since then . 
'And how do you find yourself , Sir ? inquired Miss Tox , blandly . 
'Hearty , Ma'am , thank'ee , replied Toodle . 
'How do you find yourself , Ma'am ? Do the rheumaticks keep off pretty well , Ma'am ? We must all expect to grow into 'em , as we gets on . 
'Thank you , said Miss Tox . 
'I have not felt any inconvenience from that disorder yet . 
'You're wery fortunate , Ma'am , returned Mr Toodle . 
'Many people at your time of life , Ma'am , is martyrs to it . 
'Yes , indeed , it is . 
That's the little fellow , Ma'am , that was the innocent cause of so much . 
The recollection almost overpowered Miss Tox . 
The subject of it had a peculiar interest for her directly . 
She asked him to shake hands , and congratulated his mother on his frank , ingenuous face . 
Rob , overhearing her , called up a look , to justify the eulogium , but it was hardly the right look . 
'And now , Mrs Richards , said Miss Tox , 'and you too , Sir , addressing Toodle 'I'll tell you , plainly and truly , what I have come here for . 
Polly , who , with a woman's tact , understood this at once , expressed as much in a little look . 
Mr Toodle , who had not the faintest idea of what Miss Tox was talking about , expressed that also , in a stare . 
'Of course , said Miss Tox , 'how our little coolness has arisen is of no moment , and does not require to be discussed . 
It is sufficient for me to say , that I have the greatest possible respect for , and interest in , Mr Dombey Miss Tox's voice faltered 'and everything that relates to him . 
'Pray don't say so , Sir , if you please , returned Miss Tox . 
'Let me entreat you not to say so , Sir , either now , or at any future time . 
Such observations cannot but be very painful to me and to a gentleman , whose mind is constituted as , I am quite sure , yours is , can afford no permanent satisfaction . 
Mr Toodle , who had not entertained the least doubt of offering a remark that would be received with acquiescence , was greatly confounded . 
'All that I wish to say , Mrs Richards , resumed Miss Tox , 'and I address myself to you too , Sir , is this . 
, I hope she will not object to our being very good friends now , and to my coming backwards and forwards here , when I like , without being a stranger . 
Polly was gratified , and showed it . 
Mr Toodle didn't know whether he was gratified or not , and preserved a stolid calmness . 
For instance , I can teach your children something . 
Mr Toodle , who had a great respect for learning , jerked his head approvingly at his wife , and moistened his hands with dawning satisfaction . 
'Then , not being a stranger , I shall be in nobody's way , said Miss Tox , 'and everything will go on just as if I were not here . 
'Yes I'll take my bit of backer . 
He drew out so bright , and clear , and shining , that Miss Tox was charmed with him . 
The more Miss Tox drew him out , the finer he came like wire . 
There never was a better or more promising youth a more affectionate , steady , prudent , sober , honest , meek , candid young man than Rob drew out , that night . 
'I am quite glad , said Miss Tox , arrived at her own door , 'to know you . 
I hope you'll consider me your friend , and that you'll come and see me as often as you like . 
Do you keep a money box ? 'Yes , Ma'am , returned Rob 'I'm saving up , against I've got enough to put in the Bank , Ma'am . 
'Very laudable indeed , said Miss Tox . 
'I'm glad to hear it . 
Put this half crown into it , if you please . 
'Oh thank you , Ma'am , replied Rob , 'but really I couldn't think of depriving you . 
'I commend your independent spirit , said Miss Tox , 'but it's no deprivation , I assure you . 
I shall be offended if you don't take it , as a mark of my good will . 
'Good night , Ma'am , said Rob , 'and thank you ! Who ran sniggering off to get change , and tossed it away with a pieman . 
But they never taught honour at the Grinders' School , where the system that prevailed was particularly strong in the engendering of hypocrisy . 
Insomuch , that many of the friends and masters of past Grinders said , if this were what came of education for the common people , let us have none . 
Some more rational said , let us have a better one . 
Which settled the business of those objectors out of hand , and established the glory of the Grinders' Institution . 
In respect of Heart's Delight , the Captain's parental and admiration knew no change . 
Self buried , therefore , among the instruments , the Captain never went near Mr Dombey's house , or reported himself in any way to Florence or Miss Nipper . 
The Captain did not , however , in his musings , neglect his own improvement , or the mental culture of Rob the Grinder . 
The latter fact being never so much as suspected by the good Captain . 
Captain Cuttle , also , as a man of business took to keeping books . 
pretty fresh , west and by north having changed in the night . 
'Captain Gills , it's very kind of you , retorted Mr Toots . 
'I'm much obliged to you . 
Upon my word and honour , Captain Gills , it would be a charity to give me the pleasure of your acquaintance . 
'You see , brother , argued the Captain slowly , 'I don't know you . 
'But you never can know me , Captain Gills , replied Mr Toots , steadfast to his point , 'if you don't give me the pleasure of your acquaintance . 
'Well said , my lad , observed the Captain , nodding his head thoughtfully 'and true . 
Now look'ee here You've made some observations to me , which gives me to understand as you admire a certain sweet creetur . 
Hey ? 'Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , gesticulating violently with the hand in which he held his hat , 'Admiration is not the word . 
Upon my honour , you have no conception what my feelings are . 
If I could be dyed black , and made Miss Dombey's slave , I should consider it a compliment . 
If , at the sacrifice of all my property , I could get transmigrated into Miss Dombey's dog I I really think I should never leave off wagging my tail . 
I should be so perfectly happy , Captain Gills ! Mr Toots said it with watery eyes , and pressed his hat against his bosom with deep emotion . 
And Mr Toots looked hurriedly about the room , as if for some sufficiently painful means of accomplishing his dread purpose . 
Stand by ! This here proposal o' you'rn takes me a little aback . 
And why ? Because I holds my own only , you understand , in these here waters , and haven't got no consort , and may be don't wish for none . 
Steady ! You hailed me first , along of a certain young lady , as you was chartered by . 
Now if you and me is to keep one another's company at all , that there young creetur's name must never be named nor referred to . 
I don't know what harm mayn't have been done by naming of it too free , afore now , and thereby I brings up short . 
D'ye make me out pretty clear , brother ? 'Well , you'll excuse me , Captain Gills , replied Mr Toots , 'if I don't quite follow you sometimes . 
But upon my word I it's a hard thing , Captain Gills , not to be able to mention Miss Dombey . 
'Them , said the Captain , 'is the terms I offer . 
Therefore , Captain Gills , if you'll give me the pleasure of your acquaintance , I shall be very happy to accept it on your own conditions . 
It's impossible for me to make a promise not to think about her . 
Is it a treaty as to words ? 'As to words , Captain Gills , returned Mr Toots , 'I think I can bind myself . 
Mr Toots gave Captain Cuttle his hand upon it , then and there and the Captain with a pleasant and gracious show of condescension , bestowed his acquaintance upon him formally . 
Mr Toots seemed much relieved and gladdened by the acquisition , and chuckled rapturously during the remainder of his visit . 
The Captain , for his part , was not ill pleased to occupy that position of patronage , and was exceedingly well satisfied by his own prudence and foresight . 
But rich as Captain Cuttle was in the latter quality , he received a surprise that same evening from a no less ingenuous and simple youth , than Rob the Grinder . 
'Because I was wishing to dispose of mine , Captain , said Rob . 
'Ay , ay ? cried the Captain , lifting up his bushy eyebrows a little . 
'Yes I'm going , Captain , if you please , said Rob . 
'Going ? Where are you going ? asked the Captain , looking round at him over the glasses . 
'What ? didn't you know that I was going to leave you , Captain ? asked Rob , with a sneaking smile . 
The Captain put down the paper , took off his spectacles , and brought his eyes to bear on the deserter . 
'Oh yes , Captain , I am going to give you warning . 
I thought you'd have known that beforehand , perhaps , said Rob , rubbing his hands , and getting up . 
'If you could be so good as provide yourself soon , Captain , it would be a great convenience to me . 
You haven't any right to call a poor cove names , Captain . 
It ain't because I'm a servant and you're a master , that you're to go and libel me . 
I wonder at you , Captain , I do . 
All of which the Grinder howled forth in a lachrymose whine , and backing carefully towards the door . 
'And so you've got another berth , have you , my lad ? said the Captain , eyeing him intently . 
'Don't you pay out no more of them words . 
'Well , then , don't you pay in no more of your words , Captain , retorted the roused innocent , getting louder in his whine , and backing into the shop . 
'I'd sooner you took my blood than my character . 
'Because , pursued the Captain calmly , 'you have heerd , may be , of such a thing as a rope's end . 
'Oh , have I though , Captain ? cried the taunting Grinder . 
I can read your signals , my lad . 
'Oh ! I may go at once , may I , Captain ? cried Rob , exulting in his success . 
'But mind ! I never asked to go at once , Captain . 
You are not to take away my character again , because you send me off of your own accord . 
The Captain , left to himself , resumed his perusal of the news as if nothing unusual or unexpected had taken place , and went reading on with the greatest assiduity . 
But never a word did Captain Cuttle understand , though he read a vast number , for Rob the Grinder was scampering up one column and down another all through the newspaper . 
He then called in at the eating house to diminish by one half the daily rations theretofore supplied to the Midshipman , and at the public house to stop the traitor's beer . 
'My young man , said the Captain , in explanation to the young lady at the bar , 'my young man having bettered himself , Miss . 
Lastly , the Captain resolved to take possession of the bed under the counter , and to turn in there o' nights instead of upstairs , as sole guardian of the property . 
But when he had grappled with the fact , and mastered it , he promptly sent his boy with the message , 'He's a coming to night . 
Who being instructed to deliver those words and disappear , fulfilled his mission like a tarry spirit , charged with a mysterious warning . 
The Captain , well pleased to receive it , made preparation of pipes and rum and water , and awaited his visitor in the back parlour . 
Here you are , a man as gave an opinion in this here very place , that has come true , every letter on it , which the Captain sincerely believed . 
'Ay , ay ? growled Bunsby . 
'Every letter , said the Captain . 
'For why ? growled Bunsby , looking at his friend for the first time . 
'Which way ? If so , why not ? Therefore . 
After a long pause , Mr Bunsby nodded his head . 
'Open ? said the Captain . 
The Captain accordingly broke the seal , and disclosed to view two folded papers , of which he severally read the endorsements , thus 'Last Will and Testament of Solomon Gills . 
Bunsby , with his eye on the coast of Greenland , seemed to listen for the contents . 
The Captain therefore hemmed to clear his throat , and read the letter aloud . 
When I left home for the West Indies Here the Captain stopped , and looked hard at Bunsby , who looked fixedly at the coast of Greenland . 
If you ever read this letter , Ned , I am likely to be dead . 
You will easily forgive an old friend's folly then , and will feel for the restlessness and uncertainty in which he wandered away on such a wild voyage . 
So no more of that . 
I have little hope that my poor boy will ever read these words , or gladden your eyes with the sight of his frank face any more . 
No , no no more , said Captain Cuttle , sorrowfully meditating 'no more . 
'Well , well ! said the Captain with a sigh , as the Lament of Bunsby ceased to ring and vibrate in the skylight . 
'Affliction sore , long time he bore , and let us overhaul the wollume , and there find it . 
'Physicians , observed Bunsby , 'was in vain . 
otherwise , that you should have it , Ned . 
You will respect my wish , I know . 
God bless you for it , and for all your friendliness besides , to Solomon Gills . 
Now , what do you make o' this ? 'If so be , returned Bunsby , with unusual promptitude , 'as he's dead , my opinion is he won't come back no more . 
If so be as he's alive , my opinion is he will . 
Do I say he will ? No. Why not ? Because the bearings of this obserwation lays in the application on it . 
But the moment Captain Cuttle understood the full extent of his misfortune , self preservation dictated an attempt at flight . 
But when silence reigned again , and the Captain , in a violent perspiration , stood meekly looking at Mrs MacStinger , its terrors were at their height . 
The frightened Captain looked into his hat , as if he saw nothing for it but to put it on , and give himself up . 
'Cap'en Cuttle , repeated Mrs MacStinger , in the same determined manner , 'I wish to know if you're a coming home , Sir . 
The Captain seemed quite ready to go , but faintly suggested something to the effect of 'not making so much noise about it . 
'Ay , ay , ay , said Bunsby , in a soothing tone . 
'Awast , my lass , awast ! 'And who may you be , if you please ! retorted Mrs MacStinger , with chaste loftiness . 
'Did you ever lodge at Number Nine , Brig Place , Sir ? My memory may be bad , but not with me , I think . 
There was a Mrs Jollson lived at Number Nine before me , and perhaps you're mistaking me for her . 
That is my only ways of accounting for your familiarity , Sir . 
'Come , come , my lass , awast , awast ! said Bunsby . 
Illimitable faith in , and immeasurable admiration of , the Commander of the Cautious Clara , succeeded , and threw the Captain into a wondering trance . 
Still , as time wore on , and Bunsby failed to reappear , the Captain began to entertain uncomfortable doubts of another kind . 
Whether he had been attacked and defeated by Mrs MacStinger , and was ashamed to show himself after his discomfiture . 
He debated all this until he was tired and still no Bunsby . 
He made up his bed under the counter , all ready for turning in and still no Bunsby . 
The Captain trembled to think that Mrs MacStinger was not to be got rid of , and had been brought back in a coach . 
Bunsby was accompanied by nothing but a large box , which he hauled into the shop with his own hands , and as soon as he had hauled in , sat upon . 
It was difficult , however , to be sure of this the Commander having no trace of expression in his face when sober . 
'Cuttle , said the Commander , getting off the chest , and opening the lid , 'are these here your traps ? Captain Cuttle looked in and identified his property . 
'Done pretty taut and trim , hey , shipmet ? said Bunsby . 
He then abruptly opened the door , and shot away to rejoin the Cautious Clara with all speed supposed to be his invariable custom , whenever he considered he had made a point . 
The evil that is in it finds equally its means of growth and propagation in opposites . 
Towards his first wife , Mr Dombey , in his cold and lofty arrogance , had borne himself like the removed Being he almost conceived himself to be . 
He had been 'Mr Dombey' with her when she first saw him , and he was 'Mr Dombey' when she died . 
He had asserted his greatness during their whole married life , and she had meekly recognised it . 
He had imagined that the proud character of his second wife would have been added to his own would have merged into it , and exalted his greatness . 
He had pictured himself haughtier than ever , with Edith's haughtiness subservient to his . 
He had never entertained the possibility of its arraying itself against him . 
Who wears such armour , too , bears with him ever another heavy retribution . 
He felt them sharply , in the solitude of his old rooms whither he now began often to retire again , and pass long solitary hours . 
It seemed his fate to be ever proud and powerful ever humbled and powerless where he would be most strong . 
But he turned even this against her . 
The worthier she promised to be of him , the greater claim he was disposed to antedate upon her duty and submission . 
She had crossed him every way and everywhere . 
She was leagued against him now . 
Her very beauty softened natures that were obdurate to him , and insulted him with an unnatural triumph . 
But he silenced the distant thunder with the rolling of his sea of pride . 
He would bear nothing but his pride . 
And in his pride , a heap of inconsistency , and misery , and self inflicted torment , he hated her . 
To the moody , stubborn , sullen demon , that possessed him , his wife opposed her different pride in its full force . 
They never could have led a happy life together but nothing could have made it more unhappy , than the wilful and determined warfare of such elements . 
His pride was set upon maintaining his magnificent supremacy , and forcing recognition of it from her . 
She would have been racked to death , and turned but her haughty glance of calm inflexible disdain upon him , to the last . 
Such recognition from Edith ! He little knew through what a storm and struggle she had been driven onward to the crowning honour of his hand . 
He little knew how much she thought she had conceded , when she suffered him to call her wife . 
Mr Dombey was resolved to show her that he was supreme . 
There must be no will but his . 
Proud he desired that she should be , but she must be proud for , not against him . 
Her cold supreme indifference his own unquestioned attribute usurped stung him more than any other kind of treatment could have done and he determined to bend her to his magnificent and stately will . 
He had been long communing with these thoughts , when one night he sought her in her own apartment , after he had heard her return home late . 
She was alone , in her brilliant dress , and had but that moment come from her mother's room . 
'Mrs Dombey , he said , entering , 'I must beg leave to have a few words with you . 
'To morrow , she replied . 
'There is no time like the present , Madam , he returned . 
I am used to choose my own times not to have them chosen for me . 
I think you scarcely understand who and what I am , Mrs Dombey . 
'I think , she answered , 'that I understand you very well . 
She looked upon him as she said so , and folding her white arms , sparkling with gold and gems , upon her swelling breast , turned away her eyes . 
But she had the power , and he felt it keenly . 
, but in a steadfast haughty disregard of costly things and felt it more and more . 
Chaplets of flowers , plumes of feathers , jewels , laces , silks and satins look where he would , he saw riches , despised , poured out , and . 
He felt his disadvantage , and he showed it . 
Nothing that ministered to her disdainful self possession could fail to gall him . 
Your conduct does not please me , Madam . 
She merely glanced at him again , and again averted her eyes but she might have spoken for an hour , and expressed less . 
'I repeat , Mrs Dombey , does not please me . 
I have already taken occasion to request that it may be corrected . 
I now insist upon it . 
'You chose a fitting occasion for your first remonstrance , Sir , and you adopt a fitting manner , and a fitting word for your second . 
You insist ! To me ! 'Madam , said Mr Dombey , with his most offensive air of state , 'I have made you my wife . 
You are associated with my position and my reputation . 
'Which may you be pleased to consider me ? she asked . 
'Possibly I may think that my wife should partake or does partake , and cannot help herself of both characters , Mrs Dombey . 
She bent her eyes upon him steadily , and set her trembling lips . 
He saw her bosom throb , and saw her face flush and turn white . 
Blind idiot , rushing to a precipice ! He thought she stood in awe of him . 
'You are too expensive , Madam , said Mr Dombey . 
I have to insist upon a total change in all these respects . 
I know that in the novelty of possessing a tithe of such means as Fortune has placed at your disposal , ladies are apt to run into a sudden extreme . 
There has been more than enough of that extreme . 
I beg that Mrs Granger's very different experiences may now come to the instruction of Mrs Dombey . 
His insolence of self importance dilated as he saw this alteration in her . 
, it became too mighty for his breast , and burst all bounds . 
That I must have a positive show and confession of deference before the world , Madam . 
I am used to this . 
I require it as my right . 
In short I will have it . 
To Me To Me ! he added , with emphasis . 
'I have learnt from your mother , Mrs Dombey , said Mr Dombey , with magisterial importance , what no doubt you know , namely , that Brighton is recommended for her health . 
Mr Carker has been so good She changed suddenly . 
Her face and bosom glowed as if the red light of an angry sunset had been flung upon them . 
On the return of the establishment to London , I shall take such steps for its better management as I consider necessary . 
, of a very respectable reduced person there , a Mrs Pipchin , formerly employed in a situation of trust in my family , to act as housekeeper . 
An establishment like this , presided over but nominally , Mrs Dombey , requires a competent head . 
'And now , he thought , rising in his moral magnificence , and rising a stiffer and more impenetrable man than ever , 'she knows me and my resolution . 
She moved between him and the door to prevent his going away , and drawing her majestic figure to its height , looked steadily upon him still . 
'You answer each of them . 
You answer me before I speak , I see . 
How can you help it you who know the miserable truth as well as I ? Now , tell me . 
'You know how different I am . 
You see me looking on you now , and you can read the warmth of passion for you that is breathing in my face . 
Not a curl of the proud lip , not a flash of the dark eye , nothing but the same intent and searching look , accompanied these words . 
'You know my general history . 
You have spoken of my mother . 
Yes , for I am going she said it as in prompt reply to something in his face 'to appeal to you . 
Mr Dombey , with a slightly condescending bend of his chin that rustled and crackled his stiff cravat , sat down on a sofa that was near him , to hear the appeal . 
Others ! He knew at whom that word pointed , and frowned heavily . 
'I speak to you for the sake of others . 
Also your own sake and for mine . 
Since our marriage , you have been arrogant to me and I have repaid you in kind . 
You have shown to me and everyone around us , every day and hour , that you think I am graced and distinguished by your alliance . 
I do not think so , and have shown that too . 
intend that each of us shall take a separate course and you expect from me instead , a homage you will never have . 
Although her face was still the same , there was emphatic confirmation of this 'Never' in the very breath she drew . 
'I feel no tenderness towards you that you know . 
You would care nothing for it , if I did or could . 
I know as well that you feel none towards me . 
But we are linked together and in the knot that ties us , as I have said , others are bound up . 
We must both die we are both connected with the dead already , each by a little child . 
Once cast away as idle breath , no wealth or power can bring them back . 
I mean them I have weighed them and I will be true to what I undertake . 
If you will promise to forbear on your part , I will promise to forbear on mine . 
'Madam , said Mr Dombey , with his utmost dignity , 'I cannot entertain any proposal of this extraordinary nature . 
She looked at him yet , without the least change . 
I have stated my ultimatum , Madam , and have only to request your very serious attention to it . 
'Go , Sir ! she said , pointing with an imperious hand towards the door . 
'Our first and last confidence is at an end . 
Nothing can make us stranger to each other than we are henceforth . 
'I shall take my rightful course , Madam , said Mr Dombey , 'undeterred , you may be sure , by any general declamation . 
She turned her back upon him , and , without reply , sat down before her glass . 
'I place my reliance on your improved sense of duty , and more correct feeling , and better reflection , Madam , said Mr Dombey . 
She answered not one word . 
how they would all look when he saw them next . 
For the rest , Mr Dombey was very taciturn , and very dignified , and very confident of carrying out his purpose and remained so . 
Without having undergone any decided second attack of her malady , the old woman seemed to have crawled backward in her recovery from the first . 
She was more lean and shrunken , more uncertain in her imbecility , and made stranger confusions in her mind and memory . 
'Now , my dearest Grangeby , said Mrs Skewton , 'you must posively prom , she cut some of her words short , and cut out others altogether , 'come down very soon . 
'I said just now , Madam , returned Mr Dombey , loudly and laboriously , 'that I am coming in a day or two . 
Never did wrap up enough the Major being buttoned to the chin . 
'My dearest Edith Grangeby it's most trordinry thing , said Cleopatra , pettishly , 'that Major 'Bagstock ! J. B. ! cried the Major , seeing that she faltered for his name . 
'Well , it don't matter , said Cleopatra . 
'Edith , my love , you know I never could remember names what was it ? oh ! most trordinry thing that so many people want to come down to see me . 
I'm not going for long . 
Surely they can wait , till I come back ! Cleopatra looked all round the table as she said it , and appeared very uneasy . 
'I won't have Vistors really don't want visitors , she said 'little repose and all that sort of thing is what I quire . 
Edith alone never lifted her eyes to any face at the table , and never seemed dismayed by anything her mother said or did . 
The mother , however unsteady in other things , was constant in this that she was always observant of her . 
'And is Joseph absolutely banished ? said the Major , thrusting in his purple face over the steps . 
'Damme , Ma'am , is Cleopatra so hard hearted as to forbid her faithful Antony Bagstock to approach the presence ? 'Go along ! said Cleopatra , 'I can't bear you . 
You shall see me when I come back , if you are very good . 
'Tell Joseph , he may live in hope , Ma'am , said the Major 'or he'll die in despair . 
Cleopatra shuddered , and leaned back . 
'Edith , my dear , she said . 
'Tell him 'What ? 'Such dreadful words , said Cleopatra . 
'He uses such dreadful words ! Edith signed to him to retire , gave the word to go on , and left the objectionable Major to Mr Dombey . 
To whom he returned , whistling . 
'What do you mean , Major ? inquired Mr Dombey . 
'I mean to say , Dombey , returned the Major , 'that you'll soon be an orphan in law . 
Mr Dombey appeared to relish this waggish description of himself so very little , that the Major wound up with the horse's cough , as an expression of gravity . 
'Damme , Sir , said the Major , 'there is no use in disguising a fact . 
Joe is blunt , Sir . 
Dombey , said the Major , 'your wife's mother is on the move , Sir . 
'I fear , returned Mr Dombey , with much philosophy , 'that Mrs Skewton is shaken . 
'Shaken , Dombey ! said the Major . 
'Smashed ! 'Change , however , pursued Mr Dombey , 'and attention , may do much yet . 
'Don't believe it , Sir , returned the Major . 
'Damme , Sir , she never wrapped up enough . 
If a man don't wrap up , said the Major , taking in another button of his buff waistcoat , 'he has nothing to fall back upon . 
But some people will die . 
Mrs Skewton , on one particular day , was in the irresolute , exacting , jealous temper that had developed itself on her recovery from her first attack . 
After sitting silent in the carriage watching Edith for some time , she took her hand and kissed it passionately . 
The hand was neither given nor withdrawn , but simply yielded to her raising of it , and being released , dropped down again , almost as if it were insensible . 
It was a bleak , lowering , windy day , and they were out upon the Downs with nothing but a bare sweep of land between them and the sky . 
The greater part of this observation , she made while walking towards them , for her stoppage had been momentary . 
And yet , however far removed she was in dress , in dignity , in beauty , Edith could not but compare the younger woman with herself , still . 
They had now come up . 
The old woman , holding out her hand importunately , stopped to beg of Mrs Skewton . 
The younger one stopped too , and she and Edith looked in one another's eyes . 
'What is it that you have to sell ? said Edith . 
'Only this , returned the woman , holding out her wares , without looking at them . 
'I sold myself long ago . 
'My Lady , don't believe her , croaked the old woman to Mrs Skewton 'don't believe what she says . 
She loves to talk like that . 
She's my handsome and undutiful daughter . 
She gives me nothing but reproaches , my Lady , for all I have done for her . 
Look at her now , my Lady , how she turns upon her poor old mother with her looks . 
'Yes , my Lady , with a curtsey . 
The morning among the trees . 
When you wouldn't give me nothing . 
'It's of no use attempting to stay me , Edith ! said Mrs Skewton , angrily anticipating an objection from her . 
'You know nothing about it . 
I am sure this is an excellent woman , and a good mother . 
'Yes , my Lady , yes , chattered the old woman , holding out her avaricious hand . 
Lord bless you , my Lady . 
Sixpence more , my pretty Lady , as a good mother yourself . 
'And treated undutifully enough , too , my good old creature , sometimes , I assure you , said Mrs Skewton , whimpering . 
'There ! Shake hands with me . 
You're a very good old creature full of what's his name and all that . 
You're all affection and et cetera , ain't you ? 'Oh , yes , my Lady ! 'Yes , I'm sure you are and so's that gentlemanly creature Grangeby . 
I must really shake hands with you again . 
Not one word more , nor one other gesture , had been exchanged between Edith and the younger woman , but neither had removed her eyes from the other for a moment . 
They had remained confronted until now , when Edith , as awakening from a dream , passed slowly on . 
'You're a handsome woman , muttered her shadow , looking after her 'but good looks won't save us . 
And you're a proud woman but pride won't save us . 
We had need to know each other when we meet again ! CHAPTER . 
New Voices in the Waves All is going on as it was wont . 
for his great mill with the Larkey Boy . 
But Mr Toots takes courage , when they whisper a kind thought to him and by slow degrees and with many indecisive stoppages on the way , approaches Florence . 
that he never was so surprised in all his life . 
'And you've brought Diogenes , too , Miss Dombey ! says Mr Toots , thrilled through and through by the touch of the small hand so pleasantly and frankly given him . 
But he is checked by his sweet mistress . 
'Down , Di , down . 
Mr Toots would run headlong at anybody , too . 
A military gentleman goes past , and Mr Toots would like nothing better than to run at him , full tilt . 
'Diogenes is quite in his native air , isn't he , Miss Dombey ? says Mr Toots . 
Florence assents , with a grateful smile . 
'Miss Dombey , says Mr Toots , 'beg your pardon , but if you would like to walk to Blimber's , I I'm going there . 
Florence puts her arm in that of Mr Toots without a word , and they walk away together , with Diogenes going on before . 
Mr Toots's legs shake under him and though he is splendidly dressed , he feels misfits , and sees wrinkles , in the masterpieces of Burgess and Co . 
, and wishes he had put on that brightest pair of boots . 
The door is opened by the same weak eyed young man , whose imbecility of grin at sight of Mr Toots is feebleness of character personified . 
Mr Toots chuckles in reply . 
'Also to see you , Toots , in such good company , says Doctor Blimber . 
'You will like , says Doctor Blimber , 'to step among our young friends , Miss Dombey , no doubt . 
All fellow students of yours , Toots , once . 
I think we have no new disciples in our little portico , my dear , says Doctor Blimber to Cornelia , 'since Mr Toots left us . 
'Except Bitherstone , returns Cornelia . 
'Ay , truly , says the Doctor . 
'Bitherstone is new to Mr Toots . 
New to Florence , too , almost for , in the schoolroom , Bitherstone no longer Master Bitherstone of Mrs Pipchin's shows in collars and a neckcloth , and wears a watch . 
Coolies , and handed over to the Thugs he can tell him that . 
Black jealousies of Mr Toots arise , and Briggs is of opinion that he ain't so very old after all . 
Florence looks at him inquiringly . 
I am the most deplorable wretch . 
'Oh , pray don't , Mr Toots . 
Stop , if you please . 
As a kindness and a favour to me , don't . 
Mr Toots is dreadfully abashed , and his mouth opens . 
'Good bye ! cries Florence . 
'Good bye , Miss Dombey ! stammers Mr Toots . 
'I hope you won't think anything about it . 
It's it's of no consequence , thank you . 
It's not of the least consequence in the world . 
But Mr Feeder , B. A. , is coming to dinner , which happens well for Mr Toots , or there is no knowing when he might get up again . 
Mr Toots is obliged to get up to receive him , and to give him hospitable entertainment . 
, opens Mr Toots's heart , and warms him to conversation . 
Mr Feeder says he has no doubt of it . 
Mr Feeder , however , as an intimate friend , is not excluded from the subject . 
Mr Toots merely requires that it should be mentioned mysteriously , and with feeling . 
After a few glasses of wine , he gives Miss Dombey's health , observing , 'Feeder , you have no idea of the sentiments with which I propose that toast . 
Mr Feeder replies , 'Oh , yes , I have , my dear Toots and greatly they redound to your honour , old boy . 
Mr Feeder is then agitated by friendship , and shakes hands and says , if ever Toots wants a brother , he knows where to find him , either by post or parcel . 
This brings Mr Feeder , B. A. , to the confession that he has his eye upon Cornelia Blimber . 
Mr Toots replies by launching wildly out into Miss Dombey's praises , and by insinuations that sometimes he thinks he should like to blow his brains out . 
Mr Feeder strongly urges that it would be a rash attempt , and shows him , as a reconcilement to existence , Cornelia's portrait , spectacles and all . 
Thus these quiet spirits pass the evening and when it has yielded place to night , Mr Toots walks home with Mr Feeder , and parts with him at Doctor Blimber's door . 
But Mr Feeder only goes up the steps , and when Mr Toots is gone , comes down again , to stroll upon the beach alone , and think about his prospects . 
Ugly and haggard it lies upon its bed of unrest and by it , in the terror of her unimpassioned loveliness for it has terror in the sufferer's failing eyes sits Edith . 
'But my fancy ! Everything is my fancy . 
Look ! Is it possible that you don't see it ? 'Indeed , mother , there is nothing . 
It turns me cold to see you sitting at my side . 
'I am sorry , mother . 
'Sorry ! You seem always sorry . 
In the midst of her incoherence , she stops , looks at her daughter , cries out that her wits are going , and hides her face upon the bed . 
Edith , in compassion , bends over her and speaks to her . 
The sick old woman clutches her round the neck , and says , with a look of horror , 'Edith ! we are going home soon going back . 
You mean that I shall go home again ? 'Yes , mother , yes . 
And still the sick old woman looks into the corner , where the stone arm part of a figure of some tomb , she says is raised to strike her . 
At last it falls and then a dumb old woman lies upon the the bed , and she is crooked and shrunk up , and half of her is dead . 
Florence she seldom sees , and when she does , is angry with and mows at . 
No one attends on her but Edith . 
It is better that few eyes should see her and her daughter watches alone by the bedside . 
'Can you recollect the night before I married ? The head is motionless , but it expresses somehow that she does . 
'I told you then that I forgave your part in it , and prayed God to forgive my own . 
I told you that time past was at an end between us . 
I say so now , again . 
Edith touches the white lips , and for a moment all is still . 
A moment afterwards , her mother , with her girlish laugh , and the skeleton of the Cleopatra manner , rises in her bed . 
Draw the rose coloured curtains . 
There is something else upon its flight besides the wind and clouds . 
, who has just received it too . 
A good natured creature like Cousin Feenix is the very man for a marriage or a funeral , and his position in the family renders it right that he should be consulted . 
'Dombey , said Cousin Feenix , 'upon my soul , I am very much shocked to see you on such a melancholy occasion . 
My poor aunt ! She was a devilish lively woman . 
Mr Dombey replies , 'Very much so . 
'And made up , says Cousin Feenix , 'really young , you know , considering . 
I am sure , on the day of your marriage , I thought she was good for another twenty years . 
There's a Mausoleum down at my place , in the park , but I'm afraid it's in bad repair , and , in point of fact , in a devil of a state . 
But for being a little out at elbows , I should have had it put to rights but I believe the people come and make pic nic parties there inside the iron railings . 
Mr Dombey is clear that this won't do . 
'Perhaps Brighton itself , Mr Dombey suggests . 
'Upon my honour , Dombey , I don't think we could do better , says Cousin Feenix . 
'It's on the spot , you see , and a very cheerful place . 
'And when , hints Mr Dombey , 'would it be convenient ? 'I shall make a point , says Cousin Feenix , 'of pledging myself for any day you think best . 
in following my poor aunt to the confines of the in point of fact , to the grave , says Cousin Feenix , failing in the other turn of speech . 
'Would Monday do for leaving town ? says Mr Dombey . 
'Monday would suit me to perfection , replies Cousin Feenix . 
Man with cork leg , from White's . 
What , are you here , Tommy ? Foley on a blood mare . 
The Smalder girls' and so forth . 
The boy had a sense of power and authority in this patron of his that engrossed his whole attention and exacted his most implicit submission and obedience . 
But certainly Rob admired him , as well as feared him . 
Mr Carker , perhaps , was better acquainted with the sources of his power , which lost nothing by his management of it . 
His patron looked at him with a wide display of gums , and shaking his forefinger , observed 'You'll come to an evil end , my vagabond friend , I foresee . 
There's ruin in store for you . 
'Oh if you please , don't , Sir ! cried Rob , with his legs trembling under him . 
I'm sure , Sir , I only want to work for you , Sir , and to wait upon you , Sir , and to do faithful whatever I'm bid , Sir . 
'You had better do faithfully whatever you are bid , returned his patron , 'if you have anything to do with me . 
'Yes , I know that , Sir , pleaded the submissive Rob 'I'm sure of that , SIr . 
'You dog ! said Mr Carker , leaning back in his chair , and smiling at him serenely . 
'That's nothing to what I'd do to you , if you tried to deceive me . 
'Yes , Sir , replied the abject Grinder , 'I'm sure you would be down upon me dreadful , Sir . 
I wouldn't attempt for to go and do it , Sir , not if I was bribed with golden guineas . 
'So you have left your old service , and come here to ask me to take you into mine , eh ? said Mr Carker . 
'Well ! said Mr Carker . 
'Halloa ! he cried , calling him roughly back . 
'You have been shut that door . 
Rob obeyed as if his life had depended on his alacrity . 
'You have been used to eaves dropping . 
Do you know what that means ? 'Listening , Sir ? Rob hazarded , after some embarrassed reflection . 
'And watching , and so forth . 
I should consider it is as much as all the world was worth , to offer to do such a thing , unless I was ordered , Sir . 
'You had better not' You have been used , too , to babbling and tattling , said his patron with perfect coolness . 
'Beware of that here , or you're a lost rascal , and he smiled again , and again cautioned him with his forefinger . 
The Grinder's breath came short and thick with consternation . 
At the same moment his master himself came , hurrying forth to receive the distinguished guest , and give him welcome with all his teeth . 
'I never thought , said Carker , when he had assisted him to alight from his horse , 'to see you here , I'm sure . 
This is an extraordinary day in my calendar . 
No occasion is very special to a man like you , who may do anything but to a man like me , the case is widely different . 
'You have a tasteful place here , Carker , said Mr Dombey , condescending to stop upon the lawn , to look about him . 
'You can afford to say so , returned Carker . 
'Indeed , said Mr Dombey , in his lofty patronage , 'anyone might say so . 
As far as it goes , it is a very commodious and well arranged place quite elegant . 
'As far as it goes , truly , returned Carker , with an air of disparagement' 'It wants that qualification . 
Well ! we have said enough about it and though you can afford to praise it , I thank you nonetheless . 
'But perhaps to you , who are so far removed , it really does look better than it is , he said , with his false mouth distended to its fullest stretch . 
'Just as monarchs imagine attractions in the lives of beggars . 
Cursorily as his cold eye wandered over them , Carker's keen glance accompanied his , and kept pace with his , marking exactly where it went , and what it saw . 
Breakfast was soon set upon the table and , inviting Mr Dombey to a chair which had its back towards this picture , he took his own seat opposite to it as usual . 
Mr Dombey was even graver than it was his custom to be , and quite silent . 
You remind me , Carker , of some conversation that I wish to have with you . 
'Robin , you can leave us , said his master , at whose mild tones Robin started and disappeared , with his eyes fixed on his patron to the last . 
'You don't remember that boy , of course ? he added , when the enmeshed Grinder was gone . 
'No , said Mr Dombey , with magnificent indifference . 
'Not likely that a man like you would . 
Hardly possible , murmured Carker . 
'But he is one of that family from whom you took a nurse . 
Perhaps you may remember having generously charged yourself with his education ? 'Is it that boy ? said Mr Dombey , with a frown . 
'He does little credit to his education , I believe . 
'Why , he is a young rip , I am afraid , returned Carker , with a shrug . 
that he had some sort of claim upon you , and was constantly trying to dog your heels with his petition . 
And again , with his chin resting on his hand , he leered at the picture . 
'Carker , said Mr Dombey , 'I am sensible that you do not limit your 'Service , suggested his smiling entertainer . 
Your consideration for my feelings , hopes , and disappointments , in the little instance you have just now mentioned , is an example in point . 
I I am obliged to you , Carker . 
Mr Carker bent his head slowly , and very softly rubbed his hands , as if he were afraid by any action to disturb the current of Mr Dombey's confidence . 
'Mrs Dombey and myself , said Mr Dombey , passing this compliment with august self denial , 'are not quite agreed upon some points . 
We do not appear to understand each other yet' Mrs Dombey has something to learn . 
'Mrs Dombey is distinguished by many rare attractions and has been accustomed , no doubt , to receive much adulation , said the smooth , sleek watcher of his slightest look and tone . 
'But where there is affection , duty , and respect , any little mistakes engendered by such causes are soon set right . 
'When I so much regretted being present , said the smiling Carker . 
He therefore responded , with a considerable accession of dignity . 
'Is that so ? 'Is it so ? returned Carker . 
'I have the misfortune , I find , returned Carker , 'to have incurred that displeasure . 
I made Mr's Dombey acquainted , some time since , as I have already told you , with certain points of domestic deference and submission on which I felt it necessary to insist . 
Blended with the look that Carker bent upon him , was a devilish look at the picture over his head , that struck upon it like a flash of lightning . 
'Now , Carker , said Mr Dombey , 'I do not hesitate to say to you that I will carry my point . 
I am not to be trifled with . 
Mrs Dombey must understand that my will is law , and that I cannot allow of one exception to the whole rule of my life . 
'You know , said Mr Carker , 'that you have only to command me . 
'I know , said Mr Dombey , with a majestic indication of assent , 'that I have only to command you . 
It is necessary that I should proceed in this . 
Mrs Dombey is a lady undoubtedly highly qualified , in many respects , to 'To do credit even to your choice , suggested Carker , with a yawning show of teeth . 
'We , in the City , know you better , replied Carker , with a smile from ear to ear . 
'You know me better , said Mr Dombey . 
Mr Dombey delivered himself of those words with most portentous stateliness . 
That I must insist upon her regulating her conduct by the injunctions laid upon her in that conversation . 
That I am not satisfied with her conduct . 
That I am greatly dissatisfied with it . 
'The first Mrs Dombey lived very happily , said Carker . 
'The first Mrs Dombey had great good sense , said Mr Dombey , in a gentlemanly toleration of the dead , 'and very correct feeling . 
'Is Miss Dombey like her mother , do you think ? said Carker . 
Swiftly and darkly , Mr Dombey's face changed . 
His confidential agent eyed it keenly . 
'I have approached a painful subject , he said , in a soft regretful tone of voice , irreconcilable with his eager eye . 
I forget these chains of association in the interest I have . 
The association is with the matter in hand , and not with any recollection , as you suppose . 
I do not approve of Mrs Dombey's behaviour towards my daughter . 
'Pardon me , said Mr Carker , 'I don't quite understand . 
'Understand then , returned Mr Dombey , 'that you may make that that you will make that , if you please matter of direct objection from me to Mrs Dombey . 
You will please to tell her that her show of devotion for my daughter is disagreeable to me . 
It is likely to be noticed . 
It is likely to induce people to contrast Mrs Dombey in her relation towards my daughter , with Mrs Dombey in her relation towards myself . 
You will have the goodness to let Mrs Dombey know , plainly , that I object to it and that I expect her to defer , immediately , to my objection . 
If Mrs Dombey is in earnest , so much the less reluctant should she be to desist for she will not serve my daughter by any such display . 
'I beg your pardon , said Carker , after a silence , suddenly resuming his chair , and drawing it opposite to Mr Dombey's , 'but let me understand . 
Mrs Dombey is aware of the probability of your making me the organ of your displeasure ? 'Yes , replied Mr Dombey . 
'Yes , rejoined Carker , quickly 'but why ? 'Why ! Mr Dombey repeated , not without hesitation . 
I think I do understand . 
I have not the honour of Mrs Dombey's good opinion . 
In my position , I have no reason to expect it but I take the fact to be , that I have not got it ? 'Possibly not , said Mr Dombey . 
But it may be so . 
If you have any objection to found upon it , that is indeed another thing , and the mere statement that you have one will be sufficient . 
But I have not supposed , I confess , that any confidence I could entrust to you , would be likely to degrade you 'Oh ! I degraded ! exclaimed Carker . 
'In your service ! 'or to place you , pursued Mr Dombey , 'in a false position . 
'I in a false position ! exclaimed Carker . 
'I shall be proud delighted to execute your trust . 
'There is nothing more , quoth Carker , drawing his chair back to its old place for they had taken little breakfast as yet and pausing for an answer before he sat down . 
'Nothing , said Mr Dombey , 'but this . 
You will be good enough to observe , Carker , that no message to Mrs Dombey with which you are or may be charged , admits of reply . 
You will be good enough to bring me no reply . 
Mrs Dombey is informed that it does not become me to temporise or treat upon any matter that is at issue between us , and that what I say is final . 
Mr Carker signIfied his understanding of these credentials , and they fell to breakfast with what appetite they might . 
The Grinder also , in due time reappeared , keeping his eyes upon his master without a moment's respite , and passing the time in a reverie of worshipful tenor . 
Breakfast concluded , Mr Dombey's horse was ordered out again , and Mr Carker mounting his own , they rode off for the City together . 
Mr Carker was in capital spirits , and talked much . 
So they rode on characteristically enough . 
But Mr Dombey , in his dignity , rode with very long stirrups , and a very loose rein , and very rarely deigned to look down to see where his horse went . 
Otherwise that morning's confidence would have been Mr Dombey's last . 
After being at some pains to restore him to consciousness , these gentlemen examined into the nature of his injuries . 
He rode direct to Mr Dombey's house , alighted at the door , and begged to see Mrs Dombey on an affair of importance . 
, if he were not equally sure of the occasion being sufficient for his justification . 
After a trifling delay , Mrs Dombey's maid appeared , and conducted him to a morning room upstairs , where Edith and Florence were together . 
He had never thought Edith half so beautiful before . 
Much as he admired the graces of her face and form , and freshly as they dwelt within his sensual remembrance , he had never thought her half so beautiful . 
He was very sorry , he was deeply grieved he couldn't say with what unwillingness he came to prepare her for the intelligence of a very slight accident . 
He entreated Mrs Dombey to compose herself . 
Upon his sacred word of honour , there was no cause of alarm . 
But Mr Dombey Florence uttered a sudden cry . 
He did not look at her , but at Edith . 
Edith composed and reassured her . 
She uttered no cry of distress . 
Mr Dombey had met with an accident in riding . 
His horse had slipped , and he had been thrown . 
If this were not the truth , he , the distressed intruder , never could have had the courage to present himself before Mrs Dombey . 
It was the truth indeed , he solemnly assured her . 
All this he said as if he were answering Edith , and not Florence , and with his eyes and his smile fastened on Edith . 
He then went on to tell her where Mr Dombey was lying , and to request that a carriage might be placed at his disposal to bring him home . 
As he had looked at the picture in the morning , so he looked at her afterwards , when she turned her eyes away . 
'I am directed to request , he said , 'that the new housekeeper Mrs Pipchin , I think , is the name Nothing escaped him . 
He saw in an instant , that she was another slight of Mr Dombey's on his wife . 
may be informed that Mr Dombey wishes to have his bed prepared in his own apartments downstairs , as he prefers those rooms to any other . 
I shall return to Mr Dombey almost immediately . 
That every possible attention has been paid to his comfort , and that he is the object of every possible solicitude , I need not assure you , Madam . 
Let me again say , there is no cause for the least alarm . 
Even you may be quite at ease , believe me . 
He was very thoughtful as he went along , and very thoughtful there , and very thoughtful in the carriage on his way back to the place where Mr Dombey had been left . 
It was only when sitting by that gentleman's couch that he was quite himself again , and conscious of his teeth . 
As he was not to be shaken , they moved at little more than a foot pace and hence it was quite dark when he was brought home . 
Whatever shapes of outrage and affront , and black foreshadowings of things that might happen , flickered , indistinct and giant like , before her , one resented figure marshalled them against her . 
And that figure was her husband . 
It had been hard to feel in her deep heart what she had felt , and never know the happiness of one touch of response . 
Yet Florence now began to do so and the doing of it was a task imposed upon her by the very purity of her soul , as one she could not fly from . 
She saw her father cold and obdurate to Edith , as to her hard , inflexible , unyielding . 
One exquisite unhappiness that would have far outweighed this , Florence was spared . 
She never had the least suspicion that Edith by her tenderness for her widened the separation from her father , or gave him new cause of dislike . 
No word was ever spoken between Florence and Edith now , on these subjects . 
'And nice company he is , Miss Floy , said Susan Nipper . 
'Oh , he's a precious piece of goods ! If ever he wants a character don't let him come to me whatever he does , that's all I tell him . 
we are a growing too outrageous ! 'Papa thinks well of Mrs Pipchin , Susan , returned Florence , 'and has a right to choose his housekeeper , you know . 
'Susan , said Florence , who was sitting thoughtfully at her table , 'it is very late . 
I shall want nothing more to night . 
I've not a word to say against 'em . 
'No , said Florence , 'go to bed . 
We shall hear more in the morning . 
I will inquire myself in the morning . 
Mama has been down , I daresay Florence blushed , for she had no such hope 'or is there now , perhaps . 
Good night ! Susan was too much softened to express her private opinion on the probability of Mrs Dombey's being in attendance on her husband , and silently withdrew . 
Florence left alone , soon hid her head upon her hands as she had often done in other days , and did not restrain the tears from coursing down her face . 
That weak thought was soon hushed , but the thoughts in which it had arisen were too true and strong to be dismissed with it and they made the night desolate . 
In her agitation she thought , and trembled while she thought , of once more stealing downstairs , and venturing to his door . 
She listened at her own . 
The house was quiet , and all the lights were out . 
No one was stirring in the house . 
In that room , the housekeeper wrapped in a blanket was fast asleep in an easy chair before the fire . 
All was so very still that she could hear from his breathing that he was asleep . 
This gave her courage to pass round the screen , and look into his chamber . 
It was as great a start to come upon his sleeping face as if she had not expected to see it . 
Florence stood arrested on the spot , and if he had awakened then , must have remained there . 
There was a cut upon his forehead , and they had been wetting his hair , which lay bedabbled and entangled on the pillow . 
One of his arms , resting outside the bed , was bandaged up , and he was very white . 
But it was not this , that after the first quick glance , and first assurance of his sleeping quietly , held Florence rooted to the ground . 
She had never seen his face in all her life , but hope had sunk within her , and her timid glance had dropped before its stern , unloving , and repelling harshness . 
As she looked upon it now , she saw it , for the first time , free from the cloud that had darkened her childhood . 
Calm , tranquil night was reigning in its stead . 
He might have gone to sleep , for anything she saw there , blessing her . 
Awake , unkind father ! Awake , now , sullen man ! The time is flitting by the hour is coming with an angry tread . 
Awake ! There was no change upon his face and as she watched it , awfully , its motionless reponse recalled the faces that were gone . 
Awake , doomed man , while she is near ! The time is flitting by the hour is coming with an angry tread its foot is in the house . 
And doing so , and looking back at him with blinded eyes , and stealing timidly away , passed out of his room , and crossed the other , and was gone . 
He may sleep on now . 
He may sleep on while he may . 
The quiet house had grown more dismal since she came down . 
The sleep she had been looking on , in the dead of night , had the solemnity to her of death and life in one . 
The secrecy and silence of her own proceeding made the night secret , silent , and oppressive . 
The wind was blowing drearily . 
The lamps looked pale , and shook as if they were cold . 
Her Mama had not come to her room that night , which was one cause of her having sat late out of her bed . 
The door was not fastened within , and yielded smoothly to her hesitating hand . 
'Mama ! she cried , 'what is the matter ? Edith started looking at her with such a strange dread in her face , that Florence was more frightened than before . 
'Mama ! said Florence , hurriedly advancing . 
'Dear Mama ! what is the matter ? 'I have not been well , said Edith , shaking , and still looking at her in the same strange way . 
'I have had had dreams , my love . 
'And not yet been to bed , Mama ? 'No , she returned . 
'Is it late ? asked Edith , fondly putting back the curls that mingled with her own dark hair , and strayed upon her face . 
'Near day ! she repeated in surprise . 
'Dear Mama , what have you done to your hand ? said Florence . 
as before but she presently said , 'Nothing , nothing . 
And then she said , 'My Florence ! and then her bosom heaved , and she was weeping passionately . 
'Oh Mama , what can I do , what should I do , to make us happier ? Is there anything ? 'Nothing , she replied . 
I have told you , dear , that I have had bad dreams . 
Nothing can change them , or prevent them coming back . 
'I do not understand , said Florence , gazing on her agitated face which seemed to darken as she looked . 
She neither looked nor spoke to Florence now , but went on as if she were alone . 
Mean , poor thing ! And now with gathering and darkening emotion , she looked as she had looked when Florence entered . 
'Oh Florence ! she said , 'I think I have been nearly mad to night ! and humbled her proud head upon her neck and wept again . 
'Don't leave me ! be near me ! I have no hope but in you ! These words she said a score of times . 
Soon she grew calmer , and was full of pity for the tears of Florence , and for her waking at such untimely hours . 
'For you are weary , dearest , and unhappy , and should rest . 
'I am indeed unhappy , dear Mama , tonight , said Florence . 
'But you are weary and unhappy , too . 
'Not when you lie asleep so near me , sweet . 
Edith , sitting by , looked down at the dark eyelashes lying wet on the flushed cheeks , and looked with gentleness and pity , for she knew the truth . 
But no sleep hung upon her own eyes . 
I have no hope but in you ! CHAPTER . 
A Separation With the day , though not so early as the sun , uprose Miss Susan Nipper . 
There was likewise a swollen look about them , as if they had been crying over night . 
But the Nipper , so far from being cast down , was singularly brisk and bold , and all her energies appeared to be braced up for some great feat . 
With a twitch not of her head merely , this time , but of her whole self the Nipper went on tiptoe to Mr Dombey's door , and knocked . 
'Come in ! said Mr Dombey . 
Susan encouraged herself with a final twitch , and went in . 
Mr Dombey , who was eyeing the fire , gave an amazed look at his visitor , and raised himself a little on his arm . 
The Nipper dropped a curtsey . 
'What do you want ? said Mr Dombey . 
'If you please , Sir , I wish to speak to you , said Susan . 
Mr Dombey , raised upon his arm and looking at her , offered no comment on this preparatory statement of fact . 
'What do you mean , woman ? said Mr Dombey , glaring at her . 
'Oh ! you don't know my young lady Sir you don't indeed , you'd never know so little of her , if you did . 
The quick eye of the Nipper detected his helplessness immediately , and now , as she afterwards observed , she felt she had got him . 
Which was rendered no less clear by the expression of Susan Nipper's countenance , than by her words . 
Mr Dombey , in a paroxysm of rage , made another grasp at the bell rope that was not there , and , in its absence , pulled his hair rather than nothing . 
I can not bear to hear it , said Susan Nipper , wiping her black eyes , and fixing them undauntingly on Mr Dombey's infuriated face . 
'What's this , indeed ? Susan favoured Mrs Pipchin with a look she had invented expressly for her when they first became acquainted , and resigned the reply to Mr Dombey . 
'What's this ? repeated Mr Dombey , almost foaming . 
'What's this , Madam ? You who are at the head of this household , and bound to keep it in order , have reason to inquire . 
Do you know this woman ? 'I know very little good of her , Sir , croaked Mrs Pipchin . 
'How dare you come here , you hussy ? Go along with you ! But the inflexible Nipper , merely honouring Mrs Pipchin with another look , remained . 
She has been spoiled by Miss Dombey , and is amenable to nobody . 
You know you're not , said Mrs Pipchin , sharply , and shaking her head at Susan Nipper . 
'Oh indeed ! cried Susan , loftily . 
From this soft mood she was soon aroused , with a very wholesome and refreshing effect , by the voice of Mrs Pipchin outside the door . 
'You saucy baggage ! retorted Mrs Pipchin , rattling at the handle of the door . 
'Go along with you this minute . 
Susan then bestirred herself to get her trunks in order , that she might take an immediate and dignified departure sobbing heartily all the time , as she thought of Florence . 
'But it can't be helped , I've done my duty' Miss , I have indeed . 
It's no fault of mine . 
'What is it ? Why is it ? said Florence , 'Won't you tell me ? For Susan was shaking her head . 
'No n no , my darling , returned Susan . 
'Now , here's the cab , and here's the boxes , get along with you , do ! said Mrs Pipchin , presenting herself at the same moment . 
'I beg your pardon , Ma'am , but Mr Dombey's orders are imperative . 
Edith , sitting under the hands of her maid she was going out to dinner preserved her haughty face , and took not the least notice . 
, and gave one last parting hug to her young mistress , and received her parting embrace in return . 
'Dear Mr Toots , said Florence , 'you are so friendly to me , and so honest , that I am sure I may ask a favour of you . 
'Miss Dombey , returned Mr Toots , 'if you'll only name one , you'll you'll give me an appetite . 
To which , said Mr Toots , with some sentiment , 'I have long been a stranger . 
'Susan , who is an old friend of mine , the oldest friend I have , said Florence , 'is about to leave here suddenly , and quite alone , poor girl . 
She is going home , a little way into the country . 
Might I ask you to take care of her until she is in the coach ? 'Miss Dombey , returned Mr Toots , 'you really do me an honour and a kindness . 
This proof of your confidence , after the manner in which I was Beast enough to conduct myself at Brighton 'Yes , said Florence , hurriedly 'no don't think of that . 
She doesn't seem so desolate . 
'Upon my soul and body ! said Mr Toots , taking his seat beside her . 
Upon my word and honour I think you can hardly know your own feelings better than I imagine them . 
I can conceive nothing more dreadful than to have to leave Miss Dombey . 
Susan abandoned herself to her grief now , and it really was touching to see her . 
'I say , said Mr Toots , 'now , don't ! at least I mean now do , you know ! 'Do what , Mr Toots ! cried Susan . 
'Why , come home to my place , and have some dinner before you start , said Mr Toots . 
'My cook's a most respectable woman one of the most motherly people I ever saw and she'll be delighted to make you comfortable . 
Her son , said Mr Toots , as an additional recommendation , 'was educated in the Bluecoat School , and blown up in a powder mill . 
The night coach by which Susan was to go , was on the point of departure . 
'Do you think she could you know eh ? 'I beg your pardon , Mr Toots , said Susan , 'but I don't hear you . 
'Oh dear no ! returned Susan , shaking her head . 
'I should say , never . 
Never ! 'Thank'ee ! said Mr Toots . 
It's of no consequence , thank'ee ! CHAPTER . 
The Trusty Agent Edith went out alone that day , and returned home early . 
It was but a few minutes after ten o'clock , when her carriage rolled along the street in which she lived . 
There was the same enforced composure on her face , that there had been when she was dressing and the wreath upon her head encircled the same cold and steady brow . 
So obdurate , so unapproachable , so unrelenting , one would have thought that nothing could soften such a woman's nature , and that everything in life had hardened it . 
Arrived at her own door , she was alighting , when some one coming quietly from the hall , and standing bareheaded , offered her his arm . 
The servant being thrust aside , she had no choice but to touch it and she then knew whose arm it was . 
'How is your patient , Sir ? she asked , with a curled lip . 
'He is better , returned Carker . 
'He is doing very well . 
I have left him for the night . 
Is your business urgent ? 'It is very urgent , returned Carker . 
'As I am so fortunate as to have met you , let me press my petition . 
'Where is Miss Dombey ? she asked the servant , aloud . 
'In the morning room , Ma'am . 
'I beg your pardon ! Madam ! Mrs Dombey ! cried the soft and nimble Carker , at her side in a moment . 
'May I be permitted to entreat that Miss Dombey is not present ? She confronted him , with a quick look , but with the same self possession and steadiness . 
'I would spare Miss Dombey , said Carker , in a low voice , 'the knowledge of what I have to say . 
At least , Madam , I would leave it to you to decide whether she shall know of it or not . 
I owe that to you . 
It is my bounden duty to you . 
After our former interview , it would be monstrous in me if I did otherwise . 
She slowly withdrew her eyes from his face , and turning to the servant , said , 'Some other room . 
He led the way to a drawing room , which he speedily lighted up and then left them . 
While he remained , not a word was spoken . 
'Before I hear you , Sir , said Edith , when the door was closed , 'I wish you to hear me . 
I need scarcely ask you if you are come on such an errand . 
I have expected you some time . 
'It is my misfortune , he replied , 'to be here , wholly against my will , for such a purpose . 
Allow me to say that I am here for two purposes . 
'That one , Sir , she returned , 'is ended . 
To bring her to this declaration . 
She saw it not , and cared not whether it was there or no . 
She saw only the indignities and struggles she had undergone and had to undergo , and was writhing under them . 
And he then spoke , looking straight into her kindling eyes . 
'Madam , he said , 'I know , and knew before to day , that I have found no favour with you and I knew why . 
You have spoken so openly to me I am so relieved by the possession of your confidence 'Confidence ! she repeated , with disdain . 
that I will make no pretence of concealment . 
'I say , which I did not believe , the time was likely to come , when such an understanding as we have now arrived at , would be serviceable . 
'Serviceable to whom , Sir ? she demanded scornfully . 
A little reservation I fear I must confess to . 
But our interest and convenience commonly oblige many of us to make professions that we cannot feel . 
We have partnerships of interest and convenience , friendships of interest and convenience , dealings of interest and convenience , marriages of interest and convenience , every day . 
She bit her blood red lip but without wavering in the dark , stern watch she kept upon him . 
'It was not natural to me , Sir , she rejoined . 
'I had never any expectation or intention of that kind . 
, when you thought that . 
The comparison is an extreme one I intend it to be so but quite just . 
You know how perfectly indifferent to your feelings he is , when he threatens you with such a messenger . 
As you , of course , have not forgotten that he did . 
She watched him still attentively . 
Mr Dombey has had to deal , in short , with none but submissive and dependent persons , who have bowed the knee , and bent the neck , before him . 
He has never known what it is to have angry pride and strong resentment opposed to him . 
'But he will know it now ! she seemed to say though her lips did not part , nor her eyes falter . 
How harshly and unmusically need not be described . 
It is enough that he was glad to hear her . 
'Madam , he resumed , 'I have done with this . 
And now to unwind the last ring of the coil ! 'It is growing late , said Carker , after a pause , 'and you are , as you said , fatigued . 
But the second object of this interview , I must not forget . 
I must recommend you , I must entreat you in the most earnest manner , for sufficient reasons that I have , to be cautious in your demonstrations of regard for Miss Dombey . 
'Cautious ! What do you mean ? 'To be careful how you exhibit too much affection for that young lady . 
'Too much affection , Sir ! said Edith , knitting her broad brow and rising . 
'Who judges my affection , or measures it out ? You ? 'It is not I who do so . 
He was , or feigned to be , perplexed . 
'Who then ? 'Can you not guess who then ? 'I do not choose to guess , she answered . 
'Madam , he said after a little hesitation meantime they had been , and still were , regarding each other as before 'I am in a difficulty here . 
'You know that you are free to do so , Sir , said Edith . 
That it suggests comparisons to him which are not favourable to himself . 
That he desires it may be wholly changed and that if you are in earnest , he is confident it will be for your continued show of affection will not benefit its object . 
'That is a threat , she said . 
'That is a threat , he answered , in his voiceless manner of assent adding aloud , 'but not directed against you . 
As instantaneously she threw him off , the moment that he touched her , and , drawing back , confronted him again , immoveable , with her hand stretched out . 
Say no more to night . 
I understand Miss Dombey is concerned , now , at the dismissal of her old servant , which is likely to have been a minor consequence in itself . 
You don't blame me for requesting that Miss Dombey might not be present . 
May I hope so ? 'I do not . 
Please to leave me , Sir . 
Leave me , if you please . 
'I shall be here constantly in my attendance upon him , and in the transaction of business matters . 
You will allow me to see you again , and to consult what should be done , and learn your wishes ? She motioned him towards the door . 
It will be necessary that you should enable me to consult with you very soon . 
'At any time but now , she answered . 
He bowed , as if in compliance but turning back , when he had nearly reached the door , said 'I am forgiven , and have explained my fault . 
May I for Miss Dombey's sake , and for my own take your hand before I go ? She gave him the gloved hand she had maimed last night . 
He took it in one of his , and kissed it , and withdrew . 
And when he had closed the door , he waved the hand with which he had taken hers , and thrust it in his breast . 
Edith saw no one that night , but locked her door , and kept herself alone . 
She did not weep she showed no greater agitation , outwardly , than when she was riding home . 
Always active and penetrating in such matters , his lynx eyed vigilance now increased twenty fold . 
on the industry and acuteness of their managing gentleman in the City . 
The same increased and sharp attention that Mr Carker bestowed on the business of the House , he applied to his own personal affairs . 
Yet these cares did not in the least interfere with Mr Carker's watching of his chief , or with his cleanness , neatness , sleekness , or any cat like quality he possessed . 
It was not so much that there was a change in him , in reference to any of his habits , as that the whole man was intensified . 
Everything that had been observable in him before , was observable now , but with a greater amount of concentration . 
Mrs Brown's daughter looked out , at this bidding on the part of Mrs Brown and there were wrath and vengeance in her face . 
'I never thought to look at him again , she said , in a low voice 'but it's well I should , perhaps . 
I see ! 'Not changed ! said the old woman , with a look of eager malice . 
'He changed ! returned the other . 
'What for ? What has he suffered ? There is change enough for twenty in me . 
'And of it , said her daughter impatiently . 
'We are mud , underneath his horse's feet . 
Her mother watching her , and not him , remained silent until her kindling glance subsided , and she drew a long breath , as if in the relief of his being gone . 
'Deary ! said the old woman then . 
'Alice ! Handsome gall Ally ! She gently shook her sleeve to arouse her attention . 
'Will you let him go like that , when you can wring money from him ? Why , it's a wickedness , my daughter . 
'Haven't I told you , that I will not have money from him ? she returned . 
'And him so rich ? murmured the old woman . 
'And us so poor ! 'Poor in not being able to pay him any of the harm we owe him , returned her daughter . 
'Let him give me that sort of riches , and I'll take them from him , and use them . 
Its no good looking at his horse . 
'Why , where's my sprightly Rob been , all this time ! she said , as he turned round . 
'Let the birds be , will you , Misses Brown ? retorted Rob , in a tone of the acutest anguish . 
'I think a cove had better have to do with lions than them little creeturs , for they're always flying back in your face when you least expect it . 
Well , how d'ye do and what do you want ? These polite inquiries the Grinder uttered , as it were under protest , and with great exasperation and vindictiveness . 
'Hark how he speaks to an old friend , my deary ! said Mrs Brown , again appealing to her daughter . 
'But there's some of his old friends not so patient as me . 
'Let him alone , will you , Misses Brown ? cried Rob , pushing away her hand . 
'You're enough to drive a penitent cove mad ! 'Why , what hurt do I do him , child ? returned the old woman . 
'He's got a master that would find it out if he was touched with a straw . 
And he blew upon the place where the old woman's hand had rested for a moment , and smoothed it gently with his finger , as if he seriously believed what he said . 
'A good place , Rob , eh ? said she . 
'You're in luck , my child . 
'Oh don't talk about luck , Misses Brown , returned the wretched Grinder , facing round and stopping . 
'If you'd never come , or if you'd go away , then indeed a cove might be considered tolerable lucky . 
Can't you go along , Misses Brown , and not foller me ! blubbered Rob , with sudden defiance . 
'Stop , Misses Brown ! cried the distracted Grinder . 
'What are you doing of ? Don't put yourself in a passion ! Don't let her go , if you please . 
I haven't meant any offence . 
I said how d'ye do , at first , didn't I ? But you wouldn't answer . 
Come along with her , will you be so kind ? said Rob . 
'Here's master Mr Carker , child ! said the old woman , slowly , as her sentiment before drinking . 
'Lord bless him ! 'Why , I didn't tell you who he was , observed Rob , with staring eyes . 
'We know him by sight , said Mrs Brown , whose working mouth and nodding head stopped for the moment , in the fixedness of her attention . 
'We saw him pass this morning , afore he got off his horse when you were ready to take it . 
'Ay , ay , returned Rob , appearing to wish that his readiness had carried him to any other place . 
The old woman shook her head . 
'Don't mind her , she said 'she's a strange creetur , if you know'd her , Rob . 
'Why , he ain't here ! cried Mrs Brown . 
'I don't know that , muttered Rob , whose glance even wandered to the church tower , as if he might be there , with a supernatural power of hearing . 
'Good master ? inquired Mrs Brown . 
Rob nodded and added , in a low voice , 'precious sharp . 
'Lives out of town , don't he , lovey ? said the old woman . 
'When he's at home , returned Rob 'but we don't live at home just now . 
'Where then ? asked the old woman . 
'Lodgings up near Mr Dombey's , returned Rob . 
'Mr Dombey you and I used to talk about him , sometimes , you know , said Rob to Mrs Brown . 
'You used to get me to talk about him . 
'Are they good friends , lovey ? 'asked the old woman . 
'He and she ? 'What , Mr and Mrs Dombey ? said Rob . 
'How should I know ! 'Not them Master and Mrs Dombey , chick , replied the old woman , coaxingly . 
'I don't know , said Rob , looking round him again . 
How curious you are , Misses Brown ! Least said , soonest mended . 
'Why there's no harm in it ! exclaimed the old woman , with a laugh , and a clap of her hands . 
'Sprightly Rob , has grown tame since he has been well off ! There's no harm in It . 
I tell you it won't do with him . 
A cove had better drown himself . 
I shouldn't have so much as told you what his name was , if you hadn't known it . 
As Rob took another cautious survey of the yard , the old woman made a secret motion to her daughter . 
It was momentary , but the daughter , with a slight look of intelligence , withdrew her eyes from the boy's face , and sat folded in her cloak as before . 
'Rob , lovey ! said the old woman , beckoning him to the other end of the bench . 
'You were always a pet and favourite of mine . 
Now , weren't you ? Don't you know you were ? 'Yes , Misses Brown , replied the Grinder , with a very bad grace . 
'And you could leave me ! said the old woman , flinging her arms about his neck . 
'To be howled over like this here ! 'Won't you come and see me , Robby ? cried Mrs Brown . 
'Oho , won't you ever come and see me ? 'Yes , I tell you ! Yes , I will ! returned the Grinder . 
'That's my own Rob ! That's my lovey ! said Mrs Brown , drying the tears upon her shrivelled face , and giving him a tender squeeze . 
'At the old place , Rob ? 'Yes , replied the Grinder . 
'Soon , Robby dear ? cried Mrs Brown 'and often ? 'Yes . 
'I will indeed , upon my soul and body . 
'A shilling , dear ! she said , with her eager avaricious face , 'or sixpence ! For old acquaintance sake . 
And my handsome gal' looking over her shoulder 'she's my gal , Rob half starves me . 
But as the reluctant Grinder put it in her hand , her daughter , coming quietly back , caught the hand in hen , and twisted out the coin . 
'What , she said , 'mother ! always money ! money from the first , and to the last' Do you mind so little what I said but now ? Here . 
, and a crooning feeble imitation of it on the part of Mrs Brown , that made him earnestly hope he might not be the subject of their discourse . 
, and went to the Dombey Counting House to receive his master's orders . 
Alone again , in his own room , Mr Carker applied himself to work , and worked all day . 
But , when the usual clearance of papers from his table was made at last , he fell into his thoughtful mood once more . 
'I wonder , said the Manager , 'that you can come and go , without inquiring how our master is' . 
'We had word this morning in the Counting House , that Mr Dombey was doing well , replied his brother . 
'I should be truly sorry , James , returned the other . 
'He would be sorry ! said the Manager , pointing at him , as if there were some other person present to whom he was appealing . 
'Be as just to me as you would to any other man below you . 
You ask a question , and I answer it . 
'But apart from my history here 'His history here ! exclaimed the Manager . 
'Why , there it is . 
possess , surely there is no one in the House who would not say and feel at least as much . 
'But you were going , said the Manager , with the snarl of a tiger cat , 'to recite some Christian precept , I observed . 
'Nay , James , returned the other , 'though the tie of brotherhood between us has been long broken and thrown away 'Who broke it , good Sir ? said the Manager . 
'I , by my misconduct . 
I do not charge it upon you . 
The Manager replied , with that mute action of his bristling mouth , 'Oh , you don't charge it upon me ! and bade him go on . 
'I say , though there is not that tie between us , do not , I entreat , assail me with unnecessary taunts , or misinterpret what I say , or would say . 
There is no one in the House , from yourself down to the lowest , I sincerely believe , who does not participate in that feeling . 
'You lie ! said the Manager , red with sudden anger . 
'You're a hypocrite , John Carker , and you lie . 
'James ! cried the other , flushing in his turn . 
The nearer to his favour , the nearer to his insolence the closer to him , the farther from him . 
But that you have been trying me , and tampering with me , I am now sure . 
You have a different manner and a different aspect from any that I ever saw m you . 
I will only say to you , once more , you are deceived . 
'I know I am , said the Manager . 
'I have told you so . 
'Not by me , returned his brother . 
'By your informant , if you have one . 
If not , by your own thoughts and suspicions . 
'I have no suspicions , said the Manager . 
You pusillanimous , abject , cringing dogs ! All making the same show , all canting the same story , all whining the same professions , all harbouring the same transparent secret . 
His brother withdrew , without saying more , and shut the door as he concluded . 
Mr Carker the Manager drew a chair close before the fire , and fell to beating the coals softly with the poker . 
'The faint hearted , fawning knaves , he muttered , with his two shining rows of teeth laid bare . 
As he broke them up and strewed them in the grate , he looked on with a thoughtful smile at what he was doing . 
'Time was , he said , 'when it was well to watch even your rising little star , and know in what quarter there were clouds , to shadow you if needful . 
But a planet has arisen , and you are lost in its light . 
He turned the white legged horse round the street corner , and sought one shining window from among those at the back of the house . 
These were the things he carried with him as he turned away again , and rode through the darkening and deserted Parks at a quick rate . 
Did the phantom of such a woman flit about him on his ride true to the reality , and obvious to him ? Yes . 
He saw her in his mind , exactly as she was . 
She bore him company with her pride , resentment , hatred , all as plain to him as her beauty with nothing plainer to him than her hatred of him . 
He saw her sometimes haughty and repellent at his side , and some times down among his horse's feet , fallen and in the dust . 
But he always saw her as she was , without disguise , and watched her on the dangerous way that she was going . 
He even suspected the mystery of the gloved hand , and held it all the longer in his own for that suspicion . 
Upon the dangerous way that she was going , he was , still and not a footprint did she mark upon it , but he set his own there , straight' CHAPTER . 
The Thunderbolt The barrier between Mr Dombey and his wife was not weakened by time . 
Let us be just to him . 
But no such day had ever dawned on Mr Dombey , or his wife and the course of each was taken . 
Through six months that ensued upon his accident , they held the same relations one towards the other . 
The hope that had fluttered within her when the promise of her new home dawned , was quite gone from the heart of Florence now . 
That home was nearly two years old and even the patient trust that was in her , could not survive the daily blight of such experience . 
The change , if it may be called one , had stolen on her like the change from childhood to womanhood , and had come with it . 
Florence was almost seventeen , when , in her lonely musings , she was conscious of these thoughts . 
She was often alone now , for the old association between her and her Mama was greatly changed . 
At the time of her father's accident , and when he was lying in his room downstairs , Florence had first observed that Edith avoided her . 
Wounded and shocked , and yet unable to reconcile this with her affection when they did meet , she sought her in her own room at night , once more . 
'Mama , said Florence , stealing softly to her side , 'have I offended you ? Edith answered 'No . 
'I must have done something , said Florence . 
'Tell me what it is . 
You have changed your manner to me , dear Mama . 
I cannot say how instantly I feel the least change for I love you with my whole heart . 
'As I do you , said Edith . 
'Ah , Florence , believe me never more than now ! 'Why do you go away from me so often , and keep away ? asked Florence . 
'And why do you sometimes look so strangely on me , dear Mama ? You do so , do you not ? Edith signified assent with her dark eyes . 
'Why ? returned Florence imploringly . 
'Tell me why , that I may know how to please you better and tell me this shall not be so any more . 
It is neither for me to say , nor you to hear but that it is , and that it must be , I know . 
Should I do it if I did not ? 'Are we to be estranged , Mama ? asked Florence , gazing at her like one frightened . 
Edith's silent lips formed 'Yes . 
Florence looked at her with increasing fear and wonder , until she could see her no more through the blinding tears that ran down her face . 
'Florence ! my life ! said Edith , hurriedly , 'listen to me . 
I cannot bear to see this grief . 
Partially and only that , in appearance , Florence , for in my own breast I am still the same to you , and ever will be . 
But what I do is not done for myself . 
'Is it for me , Mama ? asked Florence . 
'It is enough , said Edith , after a pause , 'to know what it is why , matters little . 
Dear Florence , it is better it is necessary it must be that our association should be less frequent . 
The confidence there has been between us must be broken off . 
'Oh , Mama , when ? 'Now , said Edith . 
'For all time to come ? asked Florence . 
'I do not say that , answered Edith . 
'I do not know that . 
Nor will I say that companionship between us is , at the best , an ill assorted and unholy union , of which I might have known no good could come . 
The same dark pride and rage succeeded , sweeping over her form and features like an angry chord across the strings of a wild harp . 
But no softness or humility ensued on that . 
She did not lay her head down now , and weep , and say that she had no hope but in Florence . 
She held it up as if she were a beautiful Medusa , looking on him , face to face , to strike him dead . 
Yes , and she would have done it , if she had had the charm . 
'Mama , said Florence , anxiously , 'there is a change in you , in more than what you say to me , which alarms me . 
Let me stay with you a little . 
'No , said Edith , 'no , dearest . 
I am best left alone now , and I do best to keep apart from you , of all else . 
Ask me no questions , but believe that what I am when I seem fickle or capricious to you , I am not of my own will , or for myself . 
Believe , though we are stranger to each other than we have been , that I am unchanged to you within . 
Forgive me for having ever darkened your dark home I am a shadow on it , I know well and let us never speak of this again . 
'Mama , sobbed Florence , 'we are not to part ? 'We do this that we may not part , said Edith . 
From that hour , Florence and she were , as they had been , no more . 
For days together , they would seldom meet , except at table , and when Mr Dombey was present . 
Then Edith , imperious , inflexible , and silent , never looked at her . 
But less and less often as the months went on . 
And now the void in Florence's own heart began again , indeed , to make a solitude around her . 
There was but one consideration to set against the heavy loss of Edith , and though it was slight comfort to her burdened heart , she tried to think it some relief . 
No longer divided between her affection and duty to the two , Florence could love both and do no injustice to either . 
As shadows of her fond imagination , she could give them equal place in her own bosom , and wrong them with no doubts So she tried to do . 
Florence had only to remember that her star of promise was clouded in the general gloom that hung upon the house , and to weep and be resigned . 
Timid and retiring as her solitary life had made her , it had not embittered her sweet temper , or her earnest nature . 
This youthful fascinator considered a daughter in law objectionable in principle otherwise , she had nothing to say against Florence , but that she sadly wanted 'style' which might mean back , perhaps . 
, with an uneasiness , amounting to dread . 
Edith was richly dressed , for she and Mr Dombey were engaged in the evening to some large assembly , and the dinner hour that day was late . 
She did not appear until they were seated at table , when Mr Carker rose and led her to her chair . 
Beautiful and lustrous as she was , there was that in her face and air which seemed to separate her hopelessly from Florence , and from everyone , for ever more . 
There was very little said at dinner . 
'I do not dine at home , she answered . 
'Not a large party , pursued Mr Dombey , with an indifferent assumption of not having heard her 'merely some twelve or fourteen . 
My sister , Major Bagstock , and some others whom you know but slightly . 
I do not dine at home , she repeated . 
If you have no respect for yourself , Mrs Dombey 'I have none , she said . 
'Madam , cried Mr Dombey , striking his hand upon the table , 'hear me if you please . 
I say , if you have no respect for yourself 'And I say I have none , she answered . 
He looked at her but the face she showed him in return would not have changed , if death itself had looked . 
He saw her eyes move , while he spoke , and followed them with his own . 
'Your daughter is present , Sir , said Edith . 
'My daughter will remain present , said Mr Dombey . 
Florence , who had risen , sat down again , hiding her face in her hands , and trembling . 
'My daughter , Madam' began Mr Dombey . 
'I tell you I will speak to you alone , she said . 
'If you are not mad , heed what I say . 
'I have authority to speak to you , Madam , returned her husband , 'when and where I please and it is my pleasure to speak here and now . 
The shaken diamonds in her hair started and trembled . 
There are fables of precious stones that would turn pale , their wearer being in danger . 
Had these been such , their imprisoned rays of light would have taken flight that moment , and they would have been as dull as lead . 
Carker listened , with his eyes cast down . 
At present you are a very strong example to her of this kind , and I hope she may profit by it . 
Mr Dombey moved his head , as if in a sarcastic acknowledgment of the attention , and resumed . 
Both of which , I believe , had some share in inducing you to occupy your present station at this board . 
'No ! I would not rise , and go away , and save you the utterance of one word , she repeated , exactly as before , 'if the room were burning . 
But you have the remedy in your own hands . 
I by no means forgot , when I began , that my daughter was present , Mrs Dombey . 
The old feeling was roused by what she said , into a stronger and fiercer existence than it had ever had . 
Florence with her covered face obeyed , trembling and weeping as she went . 
'Ay ! for he turned sharply when she said so , 'what is the worse for me , is twenty million times the worse for you . 
Heed that , if you heed nothing else . 
The arch of diamonds spanning her dark hair , flashed and glittered like a starry bridge . 
There was no warning in them , or they would have turned as dull and dim as tarnished honour . 
Carker still sat and listened , with his eyes cast down . 
'It is the only true although it is a faint expression of what is within me , she replied . 
'But if I thought it would conciliate you , I would repress it , if it were repressible by any human effort . 
I will do nothing that you ask . 
'I am not accustomed to ask , Mrs Dombey , he observed 'I direct . 
'I will hold no place in your house to morrow , or on any recurrence of to morrow . 
I will be exhibited to no one , as the refractory slave you purchased , such a time . 
If I kept my marriage day , I would keep it as a day of shame . 
Self respect ! appearances before the world ! what are these to me ? You have done all you can to make them nothing to me , and they are nothing . 
'Release me , then , said Edith , immoveable in voice , in look , and bearing , as she had been throughout , 'from the chain by which I am bound . 
'Madam ? exclaimed Mr Dombey . 
That I recommend it to him , Tell him it may take place on his own terms his wealth is nothing to me but that it cannot be too soon . 
But not as she did . 
She had better have been dead than laugh as she did , in reply , with her intent look fixed upon him . 
He had better have been dead , than sitting there , in his magnificence , to hear her . 
'No , Mrs Dombey , he resumed . 
There is no possibility of separation between you and me , and therefore I the more advise you to be awakened to a sense of duty . 
The mention that has been made of my daughter , and the use that is made of my daughter , in opposition to me , are unnatural . 
Mrs Dombey has asked whether it is not enough , that she had done this and that . 
You will please to answer no , it is not enough . 
in the character of your advice . 
I have no more to say . 
'Not at all , Sir , not at all , returned the other haughtily . 
'You were employed 'Being an inferior person , for the humiliation of Mrs Dombey . 
I forgot' Oh , yes , it was expressly understood ! said Carker . 
She had better have turned hideous and dropped dead , than have stood up with such a smile upon her face , in such a fallen spirit's majesty of scorn and beauty . 
From each arm , she unclasped a diamond bracelet , flung it down , and trod upon the glittering heap . 
Her father went out alone , that evening , and Florence issuing from her own chamber soon afterwards , went about the house in search of . 
She was in her own rooms , where Florence had long ceased to go , and did not dare to venture now , lest she should unconsciously engender new trouble . 
Still Florence hoping to meet her before going to bed , changed from room to room , and wandered through the house so splendid and so dreary , without remaining anywhere . 
Instinctively apprehensive of her father , whom she supposed it was , she stopped , in the dark , gazing through the arch into the light . 
But it was Mr Carker coming down alone , and looking over the railing into the hall . 
No bell was rung to announce his departure , and no servant was in attendance . 
He went down quietly , opened the door for himself , glided out , and shut it softly after him . 
Her blood seemed to run cold . 
It invaded her dreams and disturbed the whole night . 
But she remained in her own chamber , and Florence saw nothing of her . 
When the evening had set in , she heard , from the room in which she sat on purpose , a footstep on the stairs that she thought to be Edith's . 
Hurrying out , and up towards her room , Florence met her immediately , coming down alone . 
'Keep away ! Let me go by ! 'Mama ! said Florence . 
Florence dropped upon the stairs in a swoon and was found there by Mrs Pipchin , she supposed . 
She knew nothing more , until she found herself lying on her own bed , with Mrs Pipchin and some servants standing round her . 
'Where is Mama ? was her first question . 
'Gone out to dinner , said Mrs Pipchin . 
She determined not to go to bed until Edith returned , and if she could not speak to her , at least to be sure that she was safe at home . 
What indistinct and shadowy dread moved Florence to this resolution , she did not know , and did not dare to think . 
She only knew that until Edith came back , there was no repose for her aching head or throbbing heart . 
The evening deepened into night midnight came no Edith . 
Florence could not read , or rest a moment . 
All the house was gone to bed , except two servants who were waiting the return of their mistress , downstairs . 
Three o'clock ! There was a terror in every ash that dropped out of the fire . 
Four struck ! Five ! No Edith yet . 
He dispatched a messenger to the stables to inquire whether the coachman was there and while the man was gone , dressed himself very hurriedly . 
The man came back , in great haste , bringing the coachman with him , who said he had been at home and in bed , since ten o'clock . 
Again she shivered with the nameless terror of that sight , and had hardly steadiness enough to hear and understand what followed . 
Who had told him , the man went on to say , that his mistress would not want the carriage to go home in and had dismissed him . 
She saw her father turn white in the face , and heard him ask in a quick , trembling voice , for Mrs Dombey's maid . 
The whole house was roused for she was there , in a moment , very pale too , and speaking incoherently . 
She said she had dressed her mistress early full two hours before she went out and had been told , as she often was , that she would not be wanted at night . 
She had just come from her mistress's rooms , but 'But what ! what was it ? Florence heard her father demand like a madman . 
'But the inner dressing room was locked and the key gone . 
When the door yielded , and he rushed in , what did he see there ? No one knew . 
This was the room in which he had seen , in yonder mirror , the proud face discard him . 
The deed of settlement he had executed on their marriage , and a letter . 
He read that she was gone . 
He read that he was dishonoured . 
Compassion for her father was the first distinct emotion that made head against the flood of sorrow which overwhelmed her . 
He was not long away for Florence was yet weeping in the great room and nourishing these thoughts , when she heard him come back . 
As she set her light foot in the hall , he came out of his room . 
She hastened towards him unchecked , with her arms stretched out , and crying 'Oh dear , dear Papa ! as if she would have clasped him round the neck . 
And so she would have done . 
She did not sink down at his feet she did not shut out the sight of him with her trembling hands she did not weep she did not utter one word of reproach . 
But she looked at him , and a cry of desolation issued from her heart . 
For as she looked , she saw him murdering that fond idea to which she had held in spite of him . 
She saw his cruelty , neglect , and hatred dominant above it , and stamping it down . 
She saw she had no father upon earth , and ran out , orphaned , from his house . 
Ran out of his house . 
yielded to the unexpected glare and freedom of the morning and Florence , with her head bent down to hide her agony of tears , was in the streets . 
To the home of Walter's Uncle . 
With this last adherent , Florence hurried away in the advancing morning , and the strengthening sunshine , to the City . 
At length the quarters of the little Midshipman arose in view . 
Nearer yet , and the little Midshipman himself was seen upon his post , intent as ever on his observations . 
Nearer yet , and the door stood open , inviting her to enter . 
, ran in , and sank upon the threshold of the well remembered little parlour . 
'It's Heart's Delight ! said the Captain , looking intently in her face . 
'My Heart's Delight ! said the Captain , withdrawing to a little distance , with the greatest alarm and sympathy depicted on his countenance . 
'If you can hail Ned Cuttle with a finger , do it ! But Florence did not stir . 
'My Heart's Delight ! said the trembling Captain . 
'Cheerily , said the Captain . 
'Cheerily ! Stand by , my pretty one , stand by ! There ! You're better now . 
Steady's the word , and steady it is . 
Keep her so ! Drink a little drop o' this here , said the Captain . 
'What cheer , my pretty ? said the Captain . 
'What cheer now ? You've done her some good , my lad , I believe , said the Captain , under his breath , and throwing an approving glance upon his watch . 
'Put you back half an hour every morning , and about another quarter towards the arternoon , and you're a watch as can be ekalled by few and excelled by none . 
What cheer , my lady lass ! 'Captain Cuttle ! Is it you ? exclaimed Florence , raising herself a little . 
'Is Walter's Uncle here ? asked Florence . 
'Here , pretty ? returned the Captain . 
'He ain't been here this many a long day . 
He ain't been heerd on , since he sheered off arter poor Wal'r . 
'Yes , my lady lass , returned the Captain . 
'Oh , Captain Cuttle ! cried Florence , putting her hands together , and speaking wildly . 
'Save me ! keep me here ! Let no one know where I am ! I'll tell you what has happened by and by , when I can . 
I have no one in the world to go to . 
Do not send me away ! 'Send you away , my lady lass ! exclaimed the Captain . 
When he came back to the side of Florence , she took his hand , and kissed it . 
'Steady ! said the Captain . 
'Steady ! You're too weak to stand , you see , my pretty , and must lie down here again . 
There , there ! To see the Captain lift her on the sofa , and cover her with his coat , would have been worth a hundred state sights . 
'And now , said the Captain , 'you must take some breakfast , lady lass , and the dog shall have some too . 
And arter that you shall go aloft to old Sol Gills's room , and fall asleep there , like a angel . 
Captain Cuttle patted Diogenes when he made allusion to him , and Diogenes met that overture graciously , half way . 
But by this time , his doubts were all removed . 
It was plain that he considered the Captain one of the most amiable of men , and a man whom it was an honour to a dog to know . 
In evidence of these convictions , Diogenes attended on the Captain while he made some tea and toast , and showed a lively interest in his housekeeping . 
'Well , well ! said the compassionate Captain , 'arter turning in , my Heart's Delight , you'll get more way upon you . 
Now , I'll serve out your allowance , my lad . 
'And you shall keep guard on your mistress aloft . 
'Can there be anybody there ! asked Florence , in alarm . 
'No , my lady lass , returned the Captain . 
'Who'd stay there , without making any noise ! Keep up a good heart , pretty . 
It's only people going by . 
'If there should be someone listening and watching , whispered Florence . 
'Someone who saw me come who followed me , perhaps . 
'It ain't the young woman , lady lass , is it ? said the Captain , taken with a bright idea 'Susan ? said Florence , shaking her head . 
'Ah no ! Susan has been gone from me a long time . 
'Not deserted , I hope ? said the Captain . 
'Don't say that that there young woman's run , my pretty ! 'Oh , no , no ! cried Florence . 
'So you're quiet now , are you , brother ? said the Captain to Diogenes . 
'There warn't nobody there , my lady lass , bless you ! Diogenes was not so sure of that . 
The door still had an attraction for him at intervals and he went snuffing about it , and growling to himself , unable to forget the subject . 
This incident , coupled with the Captain's observation of Florence's fatigue and faintness , decided him to prepare Sol Gills's chamber as a place of retirement for her immediately . 
He therefore hastily betook himself to the top of the house , and made the best arrangement of it that his imagination and his means suggested . 
Nothing would induce the Captain to believe that it was possible for Florence to walk upstairs . 
If he could have got the idea into his head , he would have considered it an outrageous breach of hospitality to allow her to do so . 
Florence was too weak to dispute the point , and the Captain carried her up out of hand , laid her down , and covered her with a great watch coat . 
'My lady lass ! said the Captain , 'you're as safe here as if you was at the top of St Paul's Cathedral , with the ladder cast off . 
The Captain concluded by kissing the hand that Florence stretched out to him , with the chivalry of any old knight errant , and walking on tiptoe out of the room . 
Accordingly he set it open , and stood upon the threshold , keeping a bright look out , and sweeping the whole street with his spectacles . 
'How de do , Captain Gills ? said a voice beside him . 
The Captain , looking down , found that he had been boarded by Mr Toots while sweeping the horizon . 
'How are , you , my lad ? replied the Captain . 
'Well , I m pretty well , thank'ee , Captain Gills , said Mr Toots . 
'You know I'm never quite what I could wish to be , now . 
I don't expect that I ever shall be any more . 
Mr Toots never approached any nearer than this to the great theme of his life , when in conversation with Captain Cuttle , on account of the agreement between them . 
'Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , 'if I could have the pleasure of a word with you , it's it's rather particular . 
'Certainly , Captain Gills , replied Mr Toots , who seldom had any notion of the Captain's meaning . 
'To clap on , is exactly what I could wish to do . 
'If so be , my lad , returned the Captain . 
'Because you know , said Mr Toots with a chuckle , 'I kNOW I'm wasting away . 
You needn't at all mind alluding to that . 
I I should like it . 
have altered my measure , I'm in that state of thinness . 
It's a gratification to me . 
I I'm glad of it . 
I I'd a great deal rather go into a decline , if I could . 
I'm a mere brute you know , grazing upon the surface of the earth , Captain Gills . 
The more Mr Toots went on in this way , the more the Captain was weighed down by his secret , and stared at him . 
'But I was going to say , Captain Gills , said Mr Toots . 
'Happening to be this way early this morning to tell you the truth , I was coming to breakfast with you . 
As to sleep , you know , I never sleep now . 
I might be a Watchman , except that I don't get any pay , and he's got nothing on his mind . 
'Carry on , my lad ! said the Captain , in an admonitory voice . 
'Certainly , Captain Gills , said Mr Toots . 
, and finding the door shut 'What ! were you waiting there , brother ? demanded the Captain . 
'Not at all , Captain Gills , returned Mr Toots . 
'I didn't stop a moment . 
I thought you were out . 
But the person said by the bye , you don't keep a dog , you , Captain Gills ? The Captain shook his head . 
'To be sure , said Mr Toots , 'that's exactly what I said . 
There is a dog , Captain Gills , connected with but excuse me . 
'The person said , continued Mr Toots , 'that he had heard a dog barking in the shop which I knew couldn't be , and I told him so . 
But he was as positive as if he had seen the dog . 
'What person , my lad ? inquired the Captain . 
'Why , you see there it is , Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , with a perceptible increase in the nervousness of his manner . 
'It's not for me to say what may have taken place , or what may not have taken place . 
Indeed , I don't know . 
I get mixed up with all sorts of things that I don't quite understand , and I think there's something rather weak in my in my head , in short . 
The Captain nodded his own , as a mark of assent . 
'Person , my lad' the Captain repeated . 
'I don't know what person , I'm sure , Captain Gills , replied Mr Toots , 'I haven't the least idea . 
'If so be , said the Captain to Mr Toots , with not a little shame and hesitation , 'as you'll excuse my doing of it , brother . 
'Captain Gills , returned Mr Toots , 'whatever you do , is satisfactory to me . 
The Captain thanked him heartily , and promising to come back in less than five minutes , went out in quest of the person who had entrusted Mr Toots with this mysterious message . 
It was as well that he did so for although the Captain was not gone long , he was gone much longer than he had proposed . 
When he came back , he was very pale indeed , and greatly agitated , and even looked as if he had been shedding tears . 
'Captain Gills , said Toots , kindly , 'I hope and trust there's nothing wrong ? 'Thank'ee , my lad , not a bit , said the Captain . 
'You have the appearance of being overcome , Captain Gills , observed Mr Toots . 
'Why , my lad , I am took aback , the Captain admitted . 
'Is there anything I can do , Captain Gills ? inquired Mr Toots . 
'If there is , make use of me . 
The Captain removed his hand from his face , looked at him with a remarkable expression of pity and tenderness , and took him by the hand , and shook it hard . 
'No , thank'ee , said the Captain . 
Only I'll take it as a favour if you'll part company for the present . 
I believe , brother , wringing his hand again , 'that , after Wal'r , and on a different model , you're as good a lad as ever stepped . 
'And bear a hand and cheer up , said the Captain , patting him on the back . 
'What ! There's more than one sweet creetur in the world ! 'Not to me , Captain Gills , replied Mr Toots gravely . 
'Not to me , I assure you . 
The state of my feelings towards Miss Dombey is of that unspeakable description , that my heart is a desert island , and she lives in it alone . 
I'm getting more used up every day , and I'm proud to be so . 
If you could see my legs when I take my boots off , you'd form some idea of what unrequited affection is . 
I have been prescribed bark , but I don't take it , for I don't wish to have any tone whatever given to my constitution . 
This , however , is forbidden ground . 
There was an entire change in the Captain's face as he went upstairs . 
He wiped his eyes with his handkerchief , and he polished the bridge of his nose with his sleeve as he had done already that morning , but his face was absolutely changed . 
All this , with a touch and tread as light as Florence's own . 
A louder sob or moan than usual , brought him sometimes to her door but by degrees she slept more peacefully , and the Captain's watch was undisturbed . 
The Midshipman makes a Discovery It was long before Florence awoke . 
Perfect unconsciousness of what had happened in the home that existed no more , even the deep slumber of exhaustion could not produce . 
Some undefined and mournful recollection of it , dozing uneasily but never sleeping , pervaded all her rest . 
But presently she started up upon her couch , gazed round with a surprised and vacant look , and recollected all . 
'What cheer , bright di'mond ? said the Captain . 
'I have surely slept very long , returned Florence . 
'When did I come here ? Yesterday ? 'This here blessed day , my lady lass , replied the Captain . 
'Has there been no night ? Is it still day ? asked Florence . 
'Getting on for evening now , my pretty , said the Captain , drawing back the curtain of the window . 
So not a word spake Captain Cuttle . 
'Better now , my pretty ! said the Captain . 
'Cheerily , cheerily , I'll go down below , and get some dinner ready . 
Then she knew in a moment , for she shunned it instantly , that on her breast there was the darkening mark of an angry hand . 
Her tears burst forth afresh at the sight she was ashamed and afraid of it but it moved her to no anger against him . 
There was no such Being in the world . 
What to do , or where to live , Florence poor , inexperienced girl ! could not yet consider . 
And she thought how strange and sorrowful it would be , thus to become a grey haired woman , carrying her secret to the grave , when Florence Dombey was forgotten . 
But it was all dim and clouded to her now . 
Her little stock of money amounted to but a few guineas . 
With a part of this , it would be necessary to buy some clothes , for she had none but those she wore . 
The dinner being at length quite ready , Captain Cuttle dished and served it up , with no less dexterity than he had cooked it . 
He then dressed for dinner , by taking off his glazed hat and putting on his coat . 
Stand by , my deary ! Liver wing it is . 
And potato ! all which the Captain ranged symmetrically on a plate , and pouring hot gravy on the whole with the useful spoon , set before his cherished guest . 
'The whole row o' dead lights is up , for'ard , lady lass , observed the Captain , encouragingly , 'and everythink is made snug . 
Try and pick a bit , my pretty . 
If Wal'r was here 'Ah ! If I had him for my brother now ! cried Florence . 
Well , well ! If our poor Wal'r was here , my lady lass or if he could be for he's drownded , ain't he ? Florence shook her head . 
Whereby , hold your own , my lady lass , as if it was for Wal'r's sake , and lay your pretty head to the wind . 
Florence essayed to eat a morsel , for the Captain's pleasure . 
The Captain , meanwhile , who seemed to have quite forgotten his own dinner , laid down his knife and fork , and drew his chair to the sofa . 
'And he's drownded , Beauty , ain't he ? said the Captain , in a soothing voice . 
Florence could not but assent again . 
'He was older than you , my lady lass , pursued the Captain , 'but you was like two children together , at first wam't you ? Florence answered 'Yes . 
'And Wal'r's drownded , said the Captain . 
, and appearing to have quite forgotten all about the dinner and her want of appetite , went on growling at intervals , in a ruminating tone of sympathy , 'Poor Wal'r . 
Ay , ay ! Drownded . 
Ain't he ? And always waited for her answer , in which the great point of these singular reflections appeared to consist . 
Drownded , ain't he ? after which he would resume his smoking with infinite gentleness . 
No child could have surpassed Captain Cuttle in inexperience of everything but wind and weather in simplicity , credulity , and generous trustfulness . 
Faith , hope , and charity , shared his whole nature among them . 
An odd sort of romance , perfectly unimaginative , yet perfectly unreal , and subject to no considerations of worldly prudence or practicability , was the only partner they had in his character . 
As the Captain sat , and smoked , and looked at Florence , God knows what impossible pictures , in which she was the principal figure , presented themselves to his mind . 
The Captain was not troubled with the faintest idea of any difficulty in retaining Florence , or of any responsibility thereby incurred . 
Having put up the shutters and locked the door , he was quite satisfied on this head . 
If she had been a Ward in Chancery , it would have made no difference at all to Captain Cuttle . 
He was the last man in the world to be troubled by any such considerations . 
So the Captain smoked his pipe very comfortably , and Florence and he meditated after their own manner . 
When the pipe was out , they had some tea and then Florence entreated him to take her to some neighbouring shop , where she could buy the few necessaries she immediately wanted . 
I have not spent any of it . 
I have money of my own . 
It ain't o' no use to me , said the Captain . 
'I wonder I haven't chucked it away afore now . 
and , encouraging her with every kind word and inconsequential quotation be could possibly think of , led her upstairs to her bedroom . 
But he too had something on his mind , and was not easy in his manner . 
'Good night , dear heart , said Captain Cuttle to her at her chamber door . 
Florence raised her lips to his face , and kissed him . 
'Poor Wal'r ! said the Captain . 
'Poor , poor Walter ! sighed Florence . 
'Drownded , ain't he ? said the Captain . 
Florence shook her head , and sighed . 
'Good night , my lady lass ! said Captain Cuttle , putting out his hand . 
'God bless you , dear , kind friend ! But the Captain lingered still . 
'Is anything the matter , dear Captain Cuttle ? said Florence , easily alarmed in her then state of mind . 
'Have you anything to tell me ? 'To tell you , lady lass ! replied the Captain , meeting her eyes in confusion . 
The Captain looked at her wistfully , and repeated 'No , still lingering , and still showing embarrassment . 
'Poor Wal'r ! said the Captain . 
She had seen the murder done . 
In the last lingering natural aspect in which she had cherished him through so much , he had been torn out of her heart , defaced , and slain . 
She dared not look into the glass for the sight of the darkening mark upon her bosom made her afraid of herself , as if she bore about her something wicked . 
She covered it up , with a hasty , faltering hand , and in the dark and laid her weary head down , weeping . 
The Captain did not go to bed for a long time . 
Moreover , his spectacles greatly interfered with his powers of vision . 
, with a serene breast , and a most benevolent visage . 
'Yes' my lady lass , replied the Captain , in a growling whisper . 
'Are you all right , di'mond ? Florence thanked him , and said 'Yes . 
It was not until the twilight that Captain Cuttle , fairly dropping anchor , at last , by the side of Florence , began to talk at all connectedly . 
'Ay , said the Captain , reverentially 'it's a almighty element . 
There's wonders in the deep , my pretty . 
Think on it when the winds is roaring and the waves is rowling . 
Our dear boy , drawing closer to her , 'Wal'r , darling , as was drownded . 
The Captain spoke in such a trembling voice , and looked at Florence with a face so pale and agitated , that she clung to his hand in affright . 
'Your face is changed , cried Florence . 
'You are altered in a moment . 
No , no ! All's well , all's well , my dear . 
As I was a saying Wal'r he's he's drownded . 
Ain't he ? Florence looked at him intently her colour came and went and she laid her hand upon her breast . 
The instant that she turned her head , the Captain sprung out of his chair , and interposed his hand . 
'There's nothing there , my beauty , said the Captain . 
'Why not ? asked Florence . 
The Captain murmured something about its being dull that way , and about the fire being cheerful . 
He drew the door ajar , which had been standing open until now , and resumed his seat . 
Florence followed him with her eyes , and looked intently in his face . 
'Shall I go on , Beauty ? said the Captain . 
'Yes , yes , pray ! cried Florence . 
There was hurricanes ashore as tore up forests and blowed down towns , and there was gales at sea in them latitudes , as not the stoutest wessel ever launched could live in . 
'They were not all lost ! cried Florence . 
It warn't the want of objects to like and love ashore that gave him courage , it was his nat'ral mind . 
Were they saved ? cried Florence . 
'Which of them was dead ? cried Florence . 
'Not the lad I speak on , said the Captain . 
'Thank God ! oh thank God ! 'Amen ! returned the Captain hurriedly . 
, and on that voyage the seaman as was picked up with him died . 
, on which he now held it to the fire looking behind Florence with great emotion in his face , and suffering the bread to blaze and burn like fuel . 
'Yes , roared the Captain . 
'Steady , darling ! courage ! Don't look round yet . 
See there ! upon the wall ! There was the shadow of a man upon the wall close to her . 
In all the world , he seemed to be her hope , her comfort , refuge , natural protector . 
'Take care of Walter , I was fond of Walter ! The dear remembrance of the plaintive voice that said so , rushed upon her soul , like music in the night . 
'Oh welcome home , dear Walter ! Welcome to this stricken breast ! She felt the words , although she could not utter them , and held him in her pure embrace . 
But Walter sought him out , and brought him back and then the Captain's great apprehension was , that Florence would suffer from this new shock . 
He felt it so earnestly , that he turned quite rational , and positively interdicted any further allusion to Walter's adventures for some days to come . 
Nor was this effect produced or at all heightened by the immense quantity of polishing he had administered to his face with his coat sleeve during the last half hour . 
It was solely the effect of his internal emotions . 
There was a glory and delight within the Captain that spread itself over his whole visage , and made a perfect illumination there . 
They sat thus , until it grew late . 
The Captain would have been content to sit so for a week . 
But Walter rose , to take leave for the night . 
'Going , Walter ! said Florence . 
'Where ? 'He slings his hammock for the present , lady lass , said Captain Cuttle , 'round at Brogley's . 
Within hail , Heart's Delight . 
'I am the cause of your going away , Walter , said Florence . 
'There is a houseless sister in your place . 
'Dear Miss Dombey , replied Walter , hesitating 'if it is not too bold to call you so ! Walter ! she exclaimed , surprised . 
'You are so changed , said Walter 'I changed ! she interrupted . 
'To me , said Walter , softly , as if he were thinking aloud , 'changed to me . 
I left you such a child , and find you oh ! something so different 'But your sister , Walter . 
You have not forgotten what we promised to each other , when we parted ? 'Forgotten ! But he said no more . 
'Oh , Walter , exclaimed Florence , through her sobs and tears . 
But your friends are proud and rich . 
Your father 'No , no ! Walter ! She shrieked , and put her hands up to her head , in an attitude of terror that transfixed him where he stood . 
'Don't say that word ! He never , from that hour , forgot the voice and look with which she stopped him at the name . 
He felt that if he were to live a hundred years , he never could forget it . 
She laid her gentle face upon the Captain's shoulder , and related how and why she had fled . 
On abandoning his watch for that purpose , he could not help calling once , rapturously , through the keyhole , 'Drownded . 
Ain't he , pretty ? or , when he got downstairs , making another trial at that verse of Lovely Peg . 
Mr Toots's Complaint There was an empty room above stairs at the wooden Midshipman's , which , in days of yore , had been Walter's bedroom . 
The Captain could be indueed by no persuasion of Walter's to wind up the big watch , or to take back the canister , or to touch the sugar tongs and teaspoons . 
'No , no , my lad was the Captain's invariable reply to any solicitation of the kind , 'I've made that there little property over , jintly . 
I think I should do such a thing myself , as soon as another , or sooner than many , perhaps . 
But , being what he was and is , I hope I can't believe it . 
Even that is more probable to me , than the other event . 
In short , I not only cannot bear to contemplate that other event , Captain Cuttle , but I can't , and won't . 
'Hope , you see , Wal'r , said the Captain , sagely , 'Hope . 
It's that as animates you . 
Walter , with his cheerful laugh , returned the salutation , and said 'Only one word more about my Uncle at present' Captain Cuttle . 
I am sure of it . 
You don't doubt that I am as sure of it as I am that my foot is again upon this door step , or that I again have hold of this true hand . 
There was a change in Walter's manner , as he came to these two words and when he uttered them , all his confidence and cheerfulness appeared to have deserted him . 
'I thought , before Miss Dombey stopped me when I spoke of her father last night , said Walter , you remember how ? The Captain well remembered , and shook his head . 
'But , said Walter , 'that is over . 
I think so , no longer . 
Captain Cuttle , without quite understanding this , greatly approved of it , and observed in a tone of strong corroboration , that the wind was quite abaft . 
'She ought not to be alone here ought she , Captain Cuttle ? said Walter , anxiously . 
'Well , my lad , replied the Captain , after a little sagacious consideration . 
You being here to keep her company , you see , and you two being jintly 'Dear Captain Cuttle ! remonstrated Walter . 
So there ain't no other character ain't there , my lad ? Walter briskly waved his hand in the negative . 
And there ain't no other character , ain't there ? said the Captain , musing over the ruins of his fallen castle , with a very despondent face . 
None of her relations may . 
It's clear Miss Dombey feels that they are all subservient to her father . 
What has become of Susan ? 'The young woman ? returned the Captain . 
'It's my belief as she was sent away again the will of Heart's Delight . 
I made a signal for her when Lady lass first come , and she rated of her wery high , and said she had been gone a long time . 
'Then , said Walter , 'do you ask Miss Dombey where she's gone , and we'll try to find her . 
The morning's getting on , and Miss Dombey will soon be rising . 
You are her best friend . 
Wait for her upstairs , and leave me to take care of all down here . 
The Captain , very crest fallen indeed , echoed the sigh with which Walter said this , and complied . 
Florence was delighted with her new room , anxious to see Walter , and overjoyed at the prospect of greeting her old friend Susan . 
But Florence could not say where Susan was gone , except that it was in Essex , and no one could say , she remembered , unless it were Mr Toots . 
Captain Gills , I beg to request the favour of a private interview . 
'Why , Brother , returned the Captain , taking him by the hand , 'you are the man as we was on the look out for . 
I haven't had my clothes brushed . 
My hair is matted together . 
'See here , Brother , said the Captain . 
'This here's old Sol Gills's nevy Wal'r . 
Him as was supposed to have perished at sea' Mr Toots took his hand from his forehead , and stared at Walter . 
'Good gracious me ! stammered Mr Toots . 
'What a complication of misery ! How de do ? I I I'm afraid you must have got very wet . 
'And at this time ! exclaimed Mr Toots , with his hand to his forehead again . 
I I shall be very glad if you'll give me the pleasure of your acquaintance . 
I wish you many happy returns of the day . 
'I couldn't desire a more genuine and genial welcome . 
'Couldn't you , though ? said Mr Toots , still shaking his hand . 
'It's very kind of you . 
I'm much obliged to you . 
How de do ? I hope you left everybody quite well over the that is , upon the I mean wherever you came from last , you know . 
All these good wishes , and better intentions , Walter responded to manfully . 
Since which , Captain Gills and Lieutenant Walters I have been perfectly frantic , and have been lying down on the sofa all night , the Ruin you behold . 
'Mr Toots , said Walter , 'I am happy to be able to relieve your mind . 
Miss Dombey is safe and well . 
Poor Mr Toots's amazement and pleasure at sight of her were such , that they could find a vent in nothing but extravagance . 
I hope all the family are the same . 
'Captain Gills and Lieutenant Walters have mentioned , Miss Dombey , gasped Mr Toots , 'that I can do you some service . 
'Pray , Mr Toots , said Florence , 'do not wish me to forget anything in our acquaintance . 
I never can , believe me . 
You have been far too kind and good to me always . 
'Miss Dombey , returned Mr Toots , 'your consideration for my feelings is a part of your angelic character . 
Thank you a thousand times . 
It's of no consequence at all . 
And when the door closed behind them , the light of Mr Toots's life was darkly clouded again . 
We cannot always command our feelings , Captain Gills , and I should take it as a particular favour if you'd let me out at the private door . 
'Brother , returned the Captain , 'you shall shape your own course . 
Wotever course you take , is plain and seamanlike , I'm wery sure . 
'Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , 'you're extremely kind . 
Your good opinion is a consolation to me . 
I have quite come into my property now , you know , and and I don't know what to do with it . 
If I could be at all useful in a pecuniary point of view , I should glide into the silent tomb with ease and smoothness . 
Mr Toots said no more , but slipped out quietly and shut the door upon himself , to cut the Captain off from any reply . 
Florence thought of this good creature , long after he had left her , with mingled emotions of pain and pleasure . 
Florence had been weak and delicate of late , and the agitation she had undergone was not without its influences on her health . 
But it was no bodily illness that affected her now . 
She was distressed in mind and the cause of her distress was Walter . 
All the long day through , he seldom approached her room . 
Unsought , he never came , all day , between the morning and the night . 
When the evening closed in , he was always there , and that was her happiest time , for then she half believed that the old Walter of her childhood was not changed . 
But , even then , some trivial word , look , or circumstance would show her that there was an indefinable division between them which could not be passed . 
And she could not but see that these revealings of a great alteration in Walter manifested themselves in despite of his utmost efforts to hide them . 
So much the more did Florence feel the greatness of the alteration in him so much the oftener did she weep at this estrangement of her brother . 
The good Captain her untiring , tender , ever zealous friend saw it , too , Florence thought , and it pained him . 
Florence resolved , at last , to speak to Walter . 
It was on a certain Sunday afternoon , that Florence took this resolution . 
The faithful Captain , in an amazing shirt collar , was sitting by her , reading with his spectacles on , and she asked him where Walter was . 
'I think he's down below , my lady lass , returned the Captain . 
'I should like to speak to him , said Florence , rising hurriedly as if to go downstairs . 
'I'll rouse him up here , Beauty , said the Captain , 'in a trice . 
'Captain Cuttle tells me , Miss Dombey , he eagerly began on coming in but stopped when he saw her face . 
'You are not so well to day . 
He spoke so kindly , and with such a fervent tremor in his voice , that the tears gushed into her eyes at the sound of his words . 
'Walter , said Florence , gently , 'I am not quite well , and I have been weeping . 
I want to speak to you . 
He sat down opposite to her , looking at her beautiful and innocent face and his own turned pale , and his lips trembled . 
I was surprised to hear you say so , but I understand , now , that I am . 
Don't be angry with me , Walter . 
I was too much overjoyed to think of it , then . 
She seemed a child to him again . 
It was the ingenuous , confiding , loving child he saw and heard . 
Not the dear woman , at whose feet he would have laid the riches of the earth . 
'You remember the last time I saw you , Walter , before you went away ? He put his hand into his breast , and took out a little purse . 
'I have always worn it round my neck ! If I had gone down in the deep , it would have been with me at the bottom of the sea . 
'I am glad of that . 
I shall be always glad to think so , Walter . 
I had been the means of injuring your hopes and prospects even then . 
I feared to think so , then , but I know it now . 
I thank you for it , Walter , deeply , truly but you cannot succeed . 
You cannot quite forget me in that character , and we can be brother and sister no longer . 
But , dear Walter , do not think that I complain of you in this . 
I might have known it ought to have known it but forgot it in my joy . 
Now he caught up the hand that touched his , so entreatingly , and held it between his own . 
The colour dawned in her face , and she timidly and thoughtfully withdrew her hand still looking at him with unabated earnestness . 
'I have not a brother's right , said Walter . 
'I have not a brother's claim . 
The colour overspread her face . 
She made a gesture as if of entreaty that he would say no more , and her face dropped upon her hands . 
They were both silent for a time she weeping . 
'I owe it to a heart so trusting , pure , and good , said Walter , 'even to tear myself from it , though I rend my own . 
How dare I say it is my sister's ! She was weeping still . 
But here and now ! 'Oh thank you , thank you , Walter ! Forgive my having wronged you so much . 
I had no one to advise me . 
'Florence ! said Walter , passionately . 
'I am hurried on to say , what I thought , but a few moments ago , nothing could have forced from my lips . 
The head was still bent down , the tears still falling , and the bosom swelling with its sobs . 
'Dear Florence ! Dearest Florence ! whom I called so in my thoughts before I could consider how presumptuous and wild it was . 
One last time let me call you by your own dear name , and touch this gentle hand in token of your sisterly forgetfulness of what I have said . 
'No , Walter , I cannot forget it . 
I would not forget it , for the world . 
Are you are you very poor ? 'I am but a wanderer , said Walter , 'making voyages to live , across the sea . 
That is my calling now . 
'Are you soon going away again , Walter ? 'Very soon . 
She sat looking at him for a moment then timidly put her trembling hand in his . 
'If you will take me for your wife , Walter , I will love you dearly . 
If you will let me go with you , Walter , I will go to the world's end without fear . 
He lighted a candle , lighted a pipe , smoked it out , and wondered what on earth was going on upstairs , and why they didn't call him to tea . 
Florence came to his side while he was in the height of his wonderment . 
'Ay ! lady lass ! cried the Captain . 
'Why , you and Wal'r have had a long spell o' talk , my beauty . 
The Captain raised his head pretty smartly , to hear what it was . 
Catching by this means a more distinct view of Florence , he pushed back his chair , and himself with it , as far as they could go . 
'What ! Heart's Delight ! cried the Captain , suddenly elated , 'Is it that ? 'Yes ! said Florence , eagerly . 
'Wal'r ! Husband ! THAT ? roared the Captain , tossing up his glazed hat into the skylight . 
'Yes ! cried Florence , laughing and crying together . 
'What , Wal'r my lad ! said the Captain , looking in at the door , with his face like an amiable warming pan . 
He has never uttered her name , since . 
His household dread him too much to approach a subject on which he is resolutely dumb and the only person who dares question him , he silences immediately . 
But Mr Dombey frigidly lifts her off , and hands her to a chair . 
'I thank you , Louisa , he says , 'for this mark of your affection but desire that our conversation may refer to any other subject . 
When I bewail my fate , Louisa , or express myself as being in want of consolation , you can offer it , if you will have the goodness . 
He goes on , without deviation , keeping his thoughts and feelings close within his own breast , and imparting them to no one . 
He makes no search for his daughter . 
He may think that she is with his sister , or that she is under his own roof . 
He may think of her constantly , or he may never think about her . 
It is all one for any sign he makes . 
But this is sure he does not think that he has lost her . 
He has no suspicion of the truth . 
He has lived too long shut up in his towering supremacy , seeing her , a patient gentle creature , in the path below it , to have any fear of that . 
Shaken as he is by his disgrace , he is not yet humbled to the level earth . 
The root is broad and deep , and in the course of years its fibres have spread out and gathered nourishment from everything around it . 
The tree is struck , but not down . 
Impenetrable as before , he is still an altered man and , proud as ever , he is humbled , or those marks would not be there . 
What the world thinks of him , how it looks at him , what it sees in him , and what it says this is the haunting demon of his mind . 
It is everywhere where he is and , worse than that , it is everywhere where he is not . 
It is not a phantom of his imagination . 
It is as active in other people's minds as in his . 
Witness Cousin Feenix , who comes from Baden Baden , purposely to talk to him . 
Witness Major Bagstock , who accompanies Cousin Feenix on that friendly mission . 
Mr Dombey receives them with his usual dignity , and stands erect , in his old attitude , before the fire . 
He feels that the world is looking at him out of their eyes . 
That it is in the stare of the pictures . 
That Mr Pitt , upon the bookcase , represents it . 
That there are eyes in its own map , hanging on the wall . 
'An unusually cold spring , says Mr Dombey to deceive the world . 
'Damme , Sir , says the Major , in the warmth of friendship , 'Joseph Bagstock is a bad hand at a counterfeit . 
If you want to hold your friends off , Dombey , and to give them the cold shoulder , J. B. is not the man for your purpose . 
Joe is rough and tough , Sir blunt , Sir , blunt , is Joe . 
Mr Dombey intimates his acquiescence . 
'Now , Dombey , says the Major , 'I am a man of the world . 
Our friend Feenix if I may presume to 'Honoured , I am sure , says Cousin Feenix . 
is , proceeds the Major , with a wag of his head , 'also a man of the world . 
Dombey , you are a man of the world . 
Now , when three men of the world meet together , and are friends as I believe again appealing to Cousin Feenix . 
'I am sure , says Cousin Feenix , 'most friendly . 
, that the opinion of the world on any particular subject , is very easily got at . 
'Undoubtedly , says Cousin Feenix . 
'In point of fact , it's quite a self evident sort of thing . 
'Now , Dombey ! says the Major , resuming his discourse with great energy . 
'I beg your pardon , interposes Cousin Feenix . 
being supposed to have so committed herself with a person man with white teeth , in point of fact of very inferior station to her husband . 
Mr Dombey bows , without raising his eyes , and is silent . 
Sir , says the Major , with the horse's cough , 'the world in these things has opinions , which must be satisfied . 
'I know it , rejoins Mr Dombey . 
'Of course you know it , Dombey , says the Major , 'Damme , Sir , I know you know it . 
A man of your calibre is not likely to be ignorant of it . 
'I hope not , replies Mr Dombey . 
'Dombey ! says the Major , 'you will guess the rest . 
I speak out prematurely , perhaps because the Bagstock breed have always spoke out . 
Little , Sir , have they ever got by doing it but it's in the Bagstock blood . 
A shot is to be taken at this man . 
You have J. B. at your elbow . 
He claims the name of friend . 
God bless you ! 'Major , returns Mr Dombey , 'I am obliged . 
I shall put myself in your hands when the time comes . 
The time not being come , I have forborne to speak to you . 
'Where is the fellow , Dombey ? inquires the Major , after gasping and looking at him , for a minute . 
'Any intelligence of him ? asks the Major . 
'Dombey , I am rejoiced to hear it , says the Major . 
'You will excuse even you , Major , replies Mr Dombey , 'my entering into any further detail at present . 
The intelligence is of a singular kind , and singularly obtained . 
It may turn out to be valueless it may turn out to be true I cannot say at present . 
My explanation must stop here . 
'How does he bear it , my dear creature ? asks Miss Tox . 
'Well , says Mrs Pipchin , in her snappish way , 'he's pretty much as usual . 
'Externally , suggests Miss Tox 'But what he feels within ! Mrs Pipchin's hard grey eye looks doubtful as she answers , in three distinct jerks , 'Ah ! Perhaps . 
I don't want any of your brazen faces here , myself ! 'Brazen indeed ! Well may you say brazen , Mrs Pipchin ! returned Miss Tox . 
'To leave him ! Such a noble figure of a man ! And here Miss Tox is overcome . 
'I don't know about noble , I'm sure , observes Mrs Pipchin irascibly rubbing her nose . 
'But I know this that when people meet with trials , they must bear 'em . 
Hoity , toity ! I have had enough to bear myself , in my time ! What a fuss there is ! She's gone , and well got rid of . 
'Pretty well , Towlinson , I thank you , says Miss Tox . 
'I beg you'll have the goodness , when you happen to see me here , not to mention it . 
My visits are merely to Mrs Pipchin . 
'Very good , Miss , says Towlinson . 
'Shocking circumstances occur , Towlinson , says Miss Tox . 
'Very much so indeed , Miss , rejoins Towlinson . 
'Thank you , Miss , I'm sure , says Towlinson . 
The orations following the removal of the cloth are opened by the Chair , who says , Gentlemen , he can't disguise from himself that this is not a time for private dissensions . 
Soda water is in general request at the office next day , and most of the party deem the bill an imposition . 
As to Perch , the messenger , he is in a fair way of being ruined for life . 
He finds himself again constantly in bars of public houses , being treated and lying dreadfully . 
Mr Dombey's servants are becoming , at the same time , quite dissipated , and unfit for other service . 
They have hot suppers every night , and 'talk it over' with smoking drinks upon the board . 
, entreats that you will never talk to her any more about people who hold their heads up , as if the ground wasn't good enough for 'em . 
Everything that is said and done about it , except by Mr Dombey , is done in chorus . 
Mr Dombey and the world are alone together . 
Secret Intelligence Good Mrs Brown and her daughter Alice kept silent company together , in their own dwelling . 
It was early in the evening , and late in the spring . 
The mother and daughter sat for a long time without interchanging a word almost without motion . 
The old woman , without heeding these changes in its expression , though her eyes were often turned towards it , sat mumbling and munching , and listening confidently . 
Their abode , though poor and miserable , was not so utterly wretched as in the days when only Good Mrs Brown inhabited it . 
Some few attempts at cleanliness and order were manifest , though made in a reckless , gipsy way , that might have connected them , at a glance , with the younger woman . 
The shades of evening thickened and deepened as the two kept silence , until the blackened walls were nearly lost in the prevailing gloom . 
Then Alice broke the silence which had lasted so long , and said 'You may give him up , mother . 
'Death give him up ! returned the old woman , impatiently . 
'We shall see , said Alice . 
'We shall see him , returned her mother . 
'And doomsday , said the daughter . 
'You think I'm in my second childhood , I know ! croaked the old woman . 
'That's the respect and duty that I get from my own gal , but I'm wiser than you take me for . 
T'other day when I touched his coat in the street , he looked round as if I was a toad . 
'Angry ? ask if it was bloody . 
That's more like the word . 
'I might as well call your face only angry , when you think or talk about 'em . 
It was something different from that , truly , as she sat as still as a crouched tigress , with her kindling eyes . 
'Hark ! said the old woman , triumphantly . 
'I hear a step coming . 
It's not the tread of anyone that lives about here , or comes this way often . 
We don't walk like that . 
We should grow proud on such neighbours ! Do you hear him ? 'I believe you are right , mother , replied Alice , in a low voice . 
'Peace ! open the door . 
'It's a poor place for a great gentleman like your worship , said the old woman , curtseying and chattering . 
'I told you so , but there's no harm in it . 
'Who is that ? asked Mr Dombey , looking at her companion . 
'That's my handsome daughter , said the old woman . 
'Your worship won't mind her . 
She knows all about it . 
But if you have that purpose , you had better stop on the threshold of your scheme . 
My humour is not a trifling one , and my acknowledgment will be severe . 
It may turn even means as unexpected and unpromising as these , to account . 
For any reliable information I receive , I will pay . 
But I must have the information first , and judge for myself of its value . 
'Do you know nothing more powerful than money ? asked the younger woman , without rising , or altering her attitude . 
'Not here , I should imagine , said Mr Dombey . 
'You should know of something that is more powerful elsewhere , as I judge , she returned . 
'Do you know nothing of a woman's anger ? 'You have a saucy tongue , Jade , said Mr Dombey . 
'Not usually , she answered , without any show of emotion 'I speak to you now , that you may understand us better , and rely more on us . 
A woman's anger is pretty much the same here , as in your fine house . 
I have been so , many years . 
I have as good cause for my anger as you have for yours , and its object is the same man . 
He started , in spite of himself , and looked at her with astonishment . 
'Yes , she said , with a kind of laugh . 
'Wide as the distance may seem between us , it is so . 
How it is so , is no matter that is my story , and I keep my story to myself . 
I would bring you and him together , because I have a rage against him . 
My mother there , is avaricious and poor and she would sell any tidings she could glean , or anything , or anybody , for money . 
It is fair enough , perhaps , that you should pay her some , if she can help you to what you want to know . 
But that is not my motive . 
I have told you what mine is , and it would be as strong and all sufficient with me if you haggled and bargained with her for a sixpence . 
My saucy tongue says no more , if you wait here till sunrise tomorrow . 
'It's to be got from someone else wormed out screwed and twisted from him . 
'What do you mean ? said Mr Dombey . 
'Patience , she croaked , laying her hand , like a claw , upon his arm . 
'From whom you are to exact the intelligence that is to be useful to me ? 'Yes , said the old woman , nodding again . 
'A stranger ? 'Chut ! said the old woman , with a shrill laugh . 
'What signifies ! Well , well no . 
No stranger to your worship . 
But he won't see you . 
He'd be afraid of you , and wouldn't talk . 
You'll stand behind that door , and judge him for yourself . 
We don't ask to be believed on trust What ! Your worship doubts the room behind the door ? Oh the suspicion of you rich gentlefolks ! Look at it , then . 
Her sharp eye had detected an involuntary expression of this feeling on his part , which was not unreasonable under the circumstances . 
In satisfaction of it she now took the candle to the door she spoke of . 
Mr Dombey looked in assured himself that it was an empty , crazy room and signed to her to put the light back in its place . 
'How long , he asked , 'before this person comes ? 'Not long , she answered . 
While he thus walked up and down with his eyes on the ground , Mrs Brown , in the chair from which she had risen to receive him , sat listening anew . 
'And here's my bonny boy , cried Mrs Brown , 'at last ! oho , oho ! You're like my own son , Robby ! 'Oh ! Misses Brown ! remonstrated the Grinder . 
'And to talk about birdcages , too ! whimpered the Grinder . 
'As If that was a crime ! Why , look'ee here ! Do you know who this belongs to ? 'To Master , dear ? said the old woman with a grin . 
'Ah ! replied the Grinder , lifting a large cage tied up in a wrapper , on the table , and untying it with his teeth and hands . 
'It's our parrot , this is . 
'Mr Carker's parrot , Rob ? 'Will you hold your tongue , Misses Brown ? returned the goaded Grinder . 
'Good gracious , Misses Brown , no ! returned the Grinder , with tears in his eyes . 
'Oh ! returned the Grinder , 'what a thing it is to be perfectly pitched into with affection like this here . 
I wish she was How have you been , Misses Brown ? 'Ah ! Not here since this night week ! said the old woman , contemplating him with a look of reproach . 
'Good gracious , Misses Brown , returned the Grinder , 'I said tonight's a week , that I'd come tonight , didn't I ? And here I am . 
How you do go on ! I wish you'd be a little rational , Misses Brown . 
'Drink a little drop to comfort you , my Robin , said the old woman , filling the glass from the bottle and giving it to him . 
'Thank'ee , Misses Brown , returned the Grinder . 
And long may you et ceterer . 
Which , to judge from the expression of his face , did not include any very choice blessings . 
'Well , I say , Misses Brown ! he proceeded . 
'To go on a little rational now . 
You're a judge of birds , and up to their ways , as I know to my cost . 
'Cost ! repeated Mrs Brown . 
'Satisfaction , I mean , returned the Grinder . 
'How you do take up a cove , Misses Brown ! You've put it all out of my head again . 
'Judge of birds , Robby , suggested the old woman . 
'Ah ! said the Grinder . 
'Something to come for ? screamed the old woman . 
'Besides you , I mean , Misses Brown , returned the craven Rob . 
'Not that I want any inducement but yourself , Misses Brown , I'm sure . 
Don't begin again , for goodness' sake . 
'He don't care for me ! He don't care for me , as I care for him ! cried Mrs Brown , lifting up her skinny hands . 
'But I'll take care of his bird . 
'Take good care of it too , you know , Mrs Brown , said Rob , shaking his head . 
'If you was so much as to stroke its feathers once the wrong way , I believe it would be found out . 
'Ah , so sharp as that , Rob ? said Mrs Brown , quickly . 
'Sharp , Misses Brown ! repeated Rob . 
'But this is not to be talked about . 
'Board wages , perhaps , Rob ? said Mrs Brown . 
'Pretty Polly ! said the Grinder . 
'I wonder Master didn't take you with him , Rob , said the old woman , in a wheedling voice , but with increased malignity of aspect . 
Rob was so absorbed in contemplation of the parrot , and in trolling his forefinger on the wires , that he made no answer . 
'Well , Misses Brown , returned the Grinder . 
'I say I wonder Master didn't take you with him , dear . 
'Never you mind , Misses Brown , returned the Grinder . 
At this crisis Alice interposed her voice , but not in the Grinder's favour , by saying , 'Well done , mother . 
'I'm surprised at you ! Where's your feminine tenderness ? 'You thankless dog ! gasped Mrs Brown . 
'You impudent insulting dog ! 'What have I been and done to go and give you offence , Misses Brown ? retorted the fearful Rob . 
'You was very much attached to me a minute ago . 
'To cut me off with his short answers and his sulky words , said the old woman . 
Now go ! 'I'm sure , Misses Brown , returned the abject Grinder , 'I never Insiniwated that I wished to go . 
Don't talk like that , Misses Brown , if you please . 
'I won't talk at all , said Mrs Brown , with an action of her crooked fingers that made him shrink into half his natural compass in the corner . 
'Not another word with him shall pass my lips . 
What ! He knows 'em . 
He knows his old games and his old ways . 
If he's forgotten 'em , they'll soon remind him . 
Now let him go , and see how he'll do Master's business , and keep Master's secrets , with such company always following him up and down . 
Ha , ha , ha ! He'll find 'em a different sort from you and me , Ally Close as he is with you and me . 
I'm sure I'm quite agreeable , with a wretched face , 'for any little bit of gossip , Misses Brown . 
Don't go on like this , if you please . 
Oh , couldn't you have the goodness to put in a word for a miserable cove , here ? said the Grinder , appealing in desperation to the daughter . 
'And how's Master , deary dear ? said Mrs Brown , when , sitting in this amicable posture , they had pledged each other . 
'Hush ! If you'd be so good , Misses Brown , as to speak a little lower , Rob implored . 
'Why , he's pretty well , thank'ee , I suppose . 
'You're not out of place , Robby ? said Mrs Brown , in a wheedling tone . 
'Why , I'm not exactly out of place , nor in , faltered Rob . 
'I I'm still in pay , Misses Brown . 
'Master abroad , Rob ? 'Oh , for goodness' sake , Misses Brown , couldn't you gossip with a cove about anything else ? cried the Grinder , in a burst of despair . 
The impetuous Mrs Brown rising directly , the tortured Grinder detained her , stammering 'Ye es , Misses Brown , I believe he's abroad . 
'It's her way her way . 
Did you ever see the lady , deary ? 'Oh , Misses Brown , what lady ? cried the Grinder in a tone of piteous supplication . 
'What lady ? she retorted . 
'Yes , I believe I see her once , replied Rob . 
'The night she went away , Robby , eh ? said the old woman in his ear , and taking note of every change in his face . 
'Aha ! I know it was that night . 
'Well , if you know it was that night , you know , Misses Brown , replied Rob , 'it's no use putting pinchers into a cove to make him say so . 
'Come ! Begin ! I want to be told all about it . 
What , Rob , boy ! You and me can keep a secret together , eh ? We've done so before now . 
Where did they go first , Rob ? The wretched Grinder made a gasp , and a pause . 
'Are you dumb ? said the old woman , angrily . 
'Lord , Misses Brown , no ! You expect a cove to be a flash of lightning . 
I wish I was the electric fluency , muttered the bewildered Grinder . 
'I'd have a shock at somebody , that would settle their business . 
'What do you say ? asked the old woman , with a grin . 
'I'm wishing my love to you , Misses Brown , returned the false Rob , seeking consolation in the glass . 
'Where did they go to first was it ? Him and her , do you mean ? 'Ah ! said the old woman , eagerly . 
'Why , they didn't go nowhere not together , I mean , answered Rob . 
'That was the art of it , said the reluctant Grinder 'that's the way nobody saw 'em go , or has been able to say how they did go . 
They went different ways , I tell you Misses Brown . 
'Ay , ay , ay ! To meet at an appointed place , chuckled the old woman , after a moment's silent and keen scrutiny of his face . 
'Why , if they weren't a going to meet somewhere , I suppose they might as well have stayed at home , mightn't they , Brown ? returned the unwilling Grinder . 
'Did she laugh that night , was it ? Didn't you ask if she laughed , Misses Brown ? 'Or cried ? added the old woman , nodding assent . 
'Neither , said the Grinder . 
This Mrs Brown very readily did being naturally Jesuitical and having no other intention in the matter than that her concealed visitor should hear for himself . 
'She kept as steady , then , when she and me went down to Southampton , said the Grinder , 'as a image . 
In the morning she was just the same , Misses Brown . 
And when she went away in the packet before daylight , by herself me pretending to be her servant , and seeing her safe aboard she was just the same . 
Now , are you contented , Misses Brown ? 'No , Rob . 
Not yet , answered Mrs Brown , decisively . 
'Oh , here's a woman for you ! cried the unfortunate Rob , in an outburst of feeble lamentation over his own helplessness . 
'Upon my soul , I don't know , Misses Brown , answered Rob . 
You don't know him half as well as I do , Misses Brown . 
You're never safe from him , I tell you . 
'Rob , she said , in her most coaxing tone . 
'Good gracious , Misses Brown , what's the matter now ? returned the exasperated Grinder . 
I want to know' waited for his answer . 
Come ! 'I never heard it said , Misses Brown , returned the Grinder . 
'Then , retorted the old woman quickly , 'you have seen it written , and you can spell it . 
'Now I tell you beforehand what it is , Misses Brown , said Rob , 'it's no use asking me anything else . 
I won't answer anything else I can't . 
How long it was to be before they met , or whose plan it was that they was to go away alone , I don't know no more than you do . 
I don't know any more about it . 
If I was to tell you how I found out this word , you'd believe that . 
Shall I tell you , Misses Brown ? 'Yes , Rob . 
'Well then , Misses Brown . 
The way now you won't ask any more , you know ? said Rob , turning his eyes , which were now fast getting drowsy and stupid , upon her . 
'Not another word , said Mrs Brown . 
'Well then , the way was this . 
There was only one word on it , and that was this , if you must and will know . 
But remember ! You're upon your oath , Misses Brown ! Mrs Brown knew that , she said . 
Rob , having nothing more to say , began to chalk , slowly and laboriously , on the table . 
D , the old woman read aloud , when he had formed the letter . 
'Will you hold your tongue , Misses Brown ? he exclaimed , covering it with his hand , and turning impatiently upon her . 
'I won't have it read out . 
Be quiet , will you ! 'Then write large , Rob , she returned , repeating her secret signal 'for my eyes are not good , even at print . 
Muttering to himself , and returning to his work with an ill will , Rob went on with the word . 
As he closed the door behind him , she looked round at her mother . 
'Murder ? asked the old woman . 
'He's a madman , in his wounded pride , and may do that , for anything we can say , or he either . 
The disregarded parrot only was in action . 
Prying and tormenting as the world was , it did Mr Dombey the service of nerving him to pursuit and revenge . 
The most impetuously passionate and violently impulsive of mankind would have been a milder enemy to encounter than the sullen Mr Dombey wrought to this . 
A wild beast would have been easier turned or soothed than the grave gentleman without a wrinkle in his starched cravat . 
But the very intensity of his purpose became almost a substitute for action in it . 
While he was yet uninformed of the traitor's retreat , it served to divert his mind from his own calamity , and to entertain it with another prospect . 
The brother and sister of his false favourite had no such relief everything in their history , past and present , gave his delinquency a more afflicting meaning to them . 
No idea of retort upon his cruel brother came into his mind . 
They was , to be sure and bring a note to you , Mr Carker , before you went out in the morning . 
'Is your wife so ill ? asked Harriet . 
'Why , you see , said Mr Perch , first turning round to shut the door carefully , 'she takes what has happened in our House so much to heart , Miss . 
Her nerves is so very delicate , you see , and soon unstrung . 
Not but what the strongest nerves had good need to be shook , I'm sure . 
You feel it very much yourself , no doubts . 
Harriet repressed a sigh , and glanced at her brother . 
It has almost the effect of drink upon me . 
I literally feels every morning as if I had been taking more than was good for me over night . 
Mr Perch's appearance corroborated this recital of his symptoms . 
Here Mr Perch waited to be confided in and receiving no confidence , coughed behind his hand . 
This leading to nothing , he coughed behind his hat and that leading to nothing , he put his hat on the ground and sought in his breast pocket for the letter . 
'If I rightly recollect , there was no answer , said Mr Perch , with an affable smile 'but perhaps you'll be so good as cast your eye over it , Sir . 
John Carker broke the seal , which was Mr Dombey's , and possessing himself of the contents , which were very brief , replied , 'No . 
I see him myself , with his eye at the counting house keyhole , which being patent is impervious . 
Another one , said Mr Perch , 'with military frogs , is in the parlour of the King's Arms all the blessed day . 
Never let me hear hIm mentioned as a brother more ! 'Dear John , said Harriet , when they were left alone , and had remained silent for some few moments . 
'There are bad tidings in that letter . 
But nothing unexpected , he replied . 
'I saw the writer yesterday . 
'The writer ? 'Mr Dombey . 
He passed twice through the Counting House while I was there . 
I had been able to avoid him before , but of course could not hope to do that long . 
I know how natural it was that he should regard my presence as something offensive I felt it must be so , myself . 
I am dismissed ! She looked as little shocked and as hopeful as she could , but it was distressing news , for many reasons . 
Enclosed is an equivalent in money to a generously long notice , and this is my discharge . 
'We have been an ill omened race to him , said John Carker . 
'He has reason to shrink from the sound of our name , and to think that there is something cursed and wicked in our blood . 
I should almost think it too , Harriet , but for you . 
'Brother , don't speak like this . 
'After so many years , this parting is a melancholy thing , I know , said his sister , 'and the cause of it is dreadful to us both . 
We have to live , too , and must look about us for the means . 
Well , well ! We can do so , undismayed . 
'What's our friend's name , Harriet ? he answered with a sorrowful smile . 
'Indeed , I don't know , but he once made a very earnest protestation to me of his friendship and his wish to serve us and to this day I believe 'him . 
'Harriet ! exclaimed her wondering brother , 'where does this friend live ? 'Neither do I know that , she returned . 
'But he knows us both , and our history all our little history , John . 
That is the reason why , at his own suggestion , I have kept the secret of his coming , here , from you , lest his acquaintance with it should distress you . 
'Here ! Has he been here , Harriet ? 'Here , in this room . 
'What kind of man ? 'Not young . 
Grey headed , as he said , and fast growing greyer . 
But generous , and frank , and good , I am sure . 
For I told him , when he proffered us any service he could render which was the object of his visit that we needed nothing . 
It very soon vanished , and left me quite glad when the day was coming . 
Last Monday the first since this terrible event he did not go by and I have wondered whether his absence can have been in any way connected with what has happened . 
'How ? inquired her brother . 
I have only speculated on the coincidence I have not tried to account for it . 
I feel sure he will return . 
When he does , dear John , let me tell him that I have at last spoken to you , and let me bring you together . 
He will certainly help us to a new livelihood . 
His entreaty was that he might do something to smooth my life and yours and I gave him my promise that if we ever wanted a friend , I would remember him . 
'Then his name was to be no secret , 'Harriet , said her brother , who had listened with close attention , 'describe this gentleman to me . 
I surely ought to know one who knows me so well . 
However , it was agreed between them that he should see the original when he next appeared . 
It was quite late at night , and the brother was reading aloud while the sister plied her needle , when they were interrupted by a knocking at the door . 
In the atmosphere of vague anxiety and dread that lowered about them in connexion with their fugitive brother , this sound , unusual there , became almost alarming . 
The brother going to the door , the sister sat and listened timidly . 
Someone spoke to him , and he replied and seemed surprised and after a few words , the two approached together . 
'Harriet , said her brother , lighting in their late visitor , and speaking in a low voice , 'Mr Morfin the gentleman so long in Dombey's House with James . 
His sister started back , as if a ghost had entered . 
Mr John , I am not quite a stranger here . 
You were stricken with astonishment when you saw me at your door just now . 
I observe you are more astonished at present . 
Well ! That's reasonable enough under existing circumstances . 
If we were not such creatures of habit as we are , we shouldn't have reason to be astonished half so often . 
'There's nothing astonishing , he said , 'in my having conceived a desire to see your sister , Mr John , or in my having gratified it in my own way . 
, there is nothing extraordinary in that . 
You shall judge of its influence on me , John . 
'I can answer for your being more respected and beloved during all that time than anybody in the House , Sir , said John Carker . 
'Pooh ! Good natured and easy enough , I daresay , 'returned the other , 'a habit I had . 
It suited the Manager it suited the man he managed it suited me best of all . 
I did what was allotted to me to do , made no court to either of them , and was glad to occupy a station in which none was required . 
So I should have gone on till now , but that my room had a thin wall . 
You can tell your sister that it was divided from the Manager's room by a wainscot partition . 
It happened seldom enough that I was within hearing of anything of a private nature , certainly . 
But when I was , and couldn't otherwise avoid knowing something of it , I walked out . 
I walked out once , John , during a conversation between two brothers , to which , in the beginning , young Walter Gay was a party . 
But I overheard some of it before I left the room . 
'Its matter was not new to me , but was presented in a new aspect . 
He sat for a minute or so , drumming with one hand on the table and resumed in a hurry , as if he were anxious to get rid of his confession . 
'Before I knew what to do , or whether I could do anything , there was a second conversation between the same two brothers , in which their sister was mentioned . 
I had no scruples of conscience in suffering all the waifs and strays of that conversation to float to me as freely as they would . 
I considered them mine by right . 
After that , I came here to see the sister for myself . 
The second time I asked leave to come in came in and said what I wished to say . 
And it would have been better for us , said the visitor , dropping his voice , 'to have been a lifeless trunk . 
All I mean goes beyond words , as I hope you understand and believe . 
It is late I need say no more to night . 
You will guard the treasure you have here , without advice or reminder from me . 
With these words he rose to go . 
We have talked alone before , and in this room too though it looks more natural with you here . 
'I dread to ask , said Harriet . 
'You have looked so earnestly at me more than once , rejoined the visitor , 'that I think I can divine your question . 
Has he taken money ? Is it that ? 'Yes . 
'I thank Heaven ! said Harriet . 
'For the sake of John . 
But latterly you follow me , Miss Harriet ? 'Perfectly , perfectly , she answered , with her frightened face fixed on his . 
'Pray tell me all the worst at once . 
In that , his criminality , as it is connected with the affairs of the House , chiefly consists . 
'One other word before you leave me , dear Sir , said Harriet . 
'There is no danger in all this ? 'How danger ? he returned , with a little hesitation . 
'To the credit of the House ? 'I cannot help answering you plainly , and trusting you completely , said Mr Morfin , after a moment's survey of her face . 
Indeed you may ! 'I am sure I may . 
'But there is no apprehension of that ? said Harriet . 
'There shall be no half confidence , he replied , shaking her hand , 'between us . 
Mr Dombey is unapproachable by anyone , and his state of mind is haughty , rash , unreasonable , and ungovernable , now . 
But he is disturbed and agitated now beyond all common bounds , and it may pass . 
You now know all , both worst and best . 
But another and different kind of disquietude kept them waking too . 
The darkness out of which this light had broken on them gathered around and the shadow of their guilty brother was in the house where his foot had never trod . 
Nor was it to be driven out , nor did it fade before the sun . 
Next morning it was there at noon at night Darkest and most distinct at night , as is now to be told . 
John Carker had gone out , in pursuance of a letter of appointment from their friend , and Harriet was left in the house alone . 
She had been alone some hours . 
A dull , grave evening , and a deepening twilight , were not favourable to the removal of the oppression on her spirits . 
Close to the glass , a pale scared face gazed in vacantly , for an instant , as searching for an object then the eyes rested on herself , and lighted up . 
'Let me in ! Let me in ! I want to speak to you ! and the hand rattled on the glass . 
She recognised immediately the woman with the long dark hair , to whom she had given warmth , food , and shelter , one wet night . 
Naturally afraid of her , remembering her violent behaviour , Harriet , retreating a little from the window , stood undecided and alarmed . 
'Let me in ! Let me speak to you ! I am thankful quiet humble anything you like . 
But let me speak to you . 
She hastened to the door and opened it . 
'May I come in , or shall I speak here ? said the woman , catching at her hand . 
'What is it that you want ? What is it that you have to say ? 'Not much , but let me say it out , or I shall never say it . 
I am tempted now to go away . 
There seem to be hands dragging me from the door . 
'Sit there , said Alice , kneeling down beside her , 'and look at me . 
You remember me ? 'I do . 
'You remember what I told you I had been , and where I came from , ragged and lame , with the fierce wind and weather beating on my head ? 'Yes . 
'You know how I came back that night , and threw your money in the dirt , and you and your race . 
Now , see me here , upon my knees . 
Now you shall judge if I am worthy of belief , both as I was , and as I am . 
She was covetous and poor , and thought to make a sort of property of me . 
'What came of that , I needn't say . 
Wretched marriages don't come of such things , in our degree only wretchedness and ruin . 
Wretchedness and ruin came on me came on me . 
Wretchedness and ruin came on me , I say . 
I was made a short lived toy , and flung aside more cruelly and carelessly than even such things are . 
By whose hand do you think ? 'Why do you ask me ? said Harriet . 
'Why do you tremble ? rejoined Alice , with an eager look . 
'His usage made a Devil of me . 
I sunk in wretchedness and ruin , lower and lower yet . 
I was concerned in a robbery in every part of it but the gains and was found out , and sent to be tried , without a friend , without a penny . 
Though I was but a girl , I would have gone to Death , sooner than ask him for a word , if a word of his could have saved me . 
I would ! To any death that could have been invented . 
Harriet trembled more and more , but did not avert her eyes from the eager look that rested on them . 
'When I knew you were his sister which was on that night I came back , weary and lame , to spurn your gift . 
If any spark of my resentment slumbered in my bosom , it sprung into a blaze when my eyes rested on him . 
You know he has wronged a proud man , and made him his deadly enemy . 
What if I had given information of him to that man ? 'Information ! repeated Harriet . 
'Go away ! Your touch is dreadful to me ! 'I have done this , pursued the other , with her eager look , regardless of the interruption . 
'Do I speak and look as if I really had ? Do you believe what I am saying ? 'I fear I must . 
Let my arm go ! 'Not yet . 
You can think what my revengeful purpose must have been , to last so long , and urge me to do this ? 'Dreadful ! said Harriet . 
I am ashamed to speak the words , but I relent . 
I wouldn't have them come together while his pursuer is so blind and headlong . 
If you had seen him as he went out last night , you would know the danger better . 
'How can it be prevented ? What can I do ? cried Harriet . 
'All night long , pursued the other , hurriedly , 'I had dreams of him and yet I didn't sleep in his blood . 
All day , I have had him near me . 
'What can I do ? cried Harriet , shuddering at these words . 
'If there is anyone who'll write , or send , or go to him , let them lose no time . 
Do you know the name , and where it is ? 'Yes . 
'Warn him that the man he has made his enemy is in a frenzy , and that he doesn't know him if he makes light of his approach . 
Tell him that he is on the road I know he is ! and hurrying on . 
Urge him to get away while there is time if there is time and not to meet him yet . 
A month or so will make years of difference . 
Let them not encounter , through me . 
Anywhere but there ! Any time but now ! Let his foe follow him , and find him for himself , but not through me ! There is enough upon my head without . 
Even night , and clusters of burning candles , could not wholly efface them , though the general glitter threw them in the shade . 
Seen from the hall , where a lamp was feebly burning , through the dark perspective of open doors , it looked as shining and precious as a gem . 
In the heart of its radiance sat a beautiful woman Edith . 
The same defiant , scornful woman still . 
The cheek a little worn , the eye a little larger in appearance , and more lustrous , but the haughty bearing just the same . 
No shame upon her brow no late repentance bending her disdainful neck . 
Imperious and stately yet , and yet regardless of herself and of all else , she sat wIth her dark eyes cast down , waiting for someone . 
No book , no work , no occupation of any kind but her own thought , beguiled the tardy time . 
Some purpose , strong enough to fill up any pause , possessed her . 
'Who had bade them to do so ? she asked . 
'Monsieur had commanded it , when it was his pleasure to take the apartment . 
Monsieur had said , when he stayed there for an hour , en route , and left the letter for Madame Madame had received it surely ? 'Yes . 
Monsieur had done the Golden Head the honour to request that the supper should be choice and delicate . 
Monsieur would find that his confidence in the Golden Head was not misplaced . 
Edith said no more , but looked on thoughtfully while they prepared the table for two persons , and set the wine upon it . 
From this she took the key , and put it on the outer side . 
He who had spoken before , inquired whether Madame thought it would be long before Monsieur arrived ? 'She couldn't say . 
'Pardon ! There was the supper ! It should be eaten on the instant . 
had spoken with great emphasis of his punctuality . 
But the English nation had so grand a genius for punctuality . 
Ah ! what noise ! Great Heaven , here was Monsieur . 
Madame is overcome with joy ! The bald man with the beard observed it , and cried out . 
Madame had only shrunk and shivered . 
Before the words were spoken , she was standing with her hand upon the velvet back of a great chair her figure drawn up to its full height , and her face immoveable . 
'Francois has flown over to the Golden Head for supper . 
He flies on these occasions like an angel or a bird . 
The baggage of Monsieur is in his room . 
The supper will be here this moment . 
These facts the bald man notified with bows and smiles , and presently the supper came . 
The hot dishes were on a chafing dish the cold already set forth , with the change of service on a sideboard . 
Monsieur was satisfied with this arrangement . 
The supper table being small , it pleased him very well . 
Let them set the chafing dish upon the floor , and go . 
He would remove the dishes with his own hands . 
'Pardon ! said the bald man , politely . 
'It was impossible ! Monsieur was of another opinion . 
He required no further attendance that night . 
'But Madame the bald man hinted . 
'Madame , replied Monsieur , 'had her own maid . 
'A million pardons ! No ! Madame had no maid ! 'I came here alone , said Edith 'It was my choice to do so . 
I am well used to travelling I want no attendance . 
They need send nobody to me . 
Monsieur accordingly , persevering in his first proposed impossibility , proceeded to follow the two attendants to the outer door , and secure it after them for the night . 
Her hand , for a moment , left the velvet chair to bring a knife within her reach upon the table then she stood as she had stood before . 
'How strange to come here by yourself , my love ! he said as he entered . 
You were to have engaged an attendant at Havre or Rouen , and have had abundance of time for the purpose , though you had been the most capricious and difficult of women . 
Her eyes gleamed strangely on him , but she stood with her hand resting on the chair , and said not a word . 
'I have never , resumed Carker , 'seen you look so handsome , as you do to night . 
Even the picture I have carried in my mind during this cruel probation , and which I have contemplated night and day , is exceeded by the reality . 
Not a look Her eyes completely hidden by their drooping lashes , but her head held up . 
'Hard , unrelenting terms they were ! said Carker , with a smile , 'but they are all fulfilled and passed , and make the present more delicious and more safe . 
Sicily shall be the Place of our retreat . 
In the idlest and easiest part of the world , my soul , we'll both seek compensation for old slavery . 
He was coming gaily towards her , when , in an instant , she caught the knife up from the table , and started one pace back . 
'Stand still ! she said , 'come no nearer me , upon your life ! They both stood looking at each other . 
I tell you , if you do , as Heaven sees us , I shall murder you ! 'Do you mistake me for your husband ? he retorted , with a grin . 
Disdaining to reply , she stretched her arm out , pointing to the chair . 
He affected to laugh jestingly , and entreated her to act her play out quickly , for the supper was growing cold . 
But the secret look with which he regarded her , was more sullen and lowering , and he struck his foot once upon the floor with a muttered oath . 
'Is that a reason why you have run away with me ? he asked her , tauntingly . 
'Yes , and why we are face to face for the last time . 
Wretch ! We meet tonight , and part tonight . 
'I am a woman , she said , confronting him steadfastly , 'who from her childhood has been shamed and steeled . 
I have been offered and rejected , put up and appraised , until my very soul has sickened . 
My poor , proud friends , have looked on and approved and every tie between us has been deadened in my breast . 
There is not one of them for whom I care , as I could care for a pet dog . 
I stand alone in the world , remembering well what a hollow world it has been to me , and what a hollow part of it I have been myself . 
You know this , and you know that my fame with it is worthless to me . 
'Yes I imagined that , he said . 
'And calculated on it , she rejoined , 'and so pursued me . 
'Yes , he said , showing all his teeth 'I know that . 
'And calculated on it , she rejoined once more , 'and so pursued me . 
from one mean villain , that I felt as if I had never known humiliation till that time . 
This shame my husband fixed upon me hemmed me round with , himself steeped me in , with his own hands , and of his own act , repeated hundreds of times . 
She was resolute , he saw undauntable with no more fear of him than of a worm . 
'What should I say of honour or of chastity to you ! she went on . 
'Your memory is so distinct , he said , 'that I have no doubt you can recall it . 
'I can , she said . 
On that night , and then , I turned from everything but passion and resentment . 
I struck a blow that laid your lofty master in the dust , and set you there , before me , looking at me now , and knowing what I mean . 
He sprung up from his chair with a great oath . 
She put her hand into her bosom , and not a finger trembled , not a hair upon her head was stirred . 
He stood still she too the table and chair between them . 
'See these ! she said , contemptuously . 
'You have addressed these to me in the false name you go by one here , some elsewhere on my road . 
Take them back ! She crunched them in her hand , and tossed them to his feet . 
And as she looked upon him now , a smile was on her face . 
'We meet and part to night , she said . 
'You have fallen on Sicilian days and sensual rest , too soon . 
You might have cajoled , and fawned , and played your traitor's part , a little longer , and grown richer . 
You purchase your voluptuous retirement dear ! 'Edith ! he retorted , menacing her with his hand . 
Boast then , and revenge me on yourself . 
The foam was on his lips the wet stood on his forehead . 
If she would have faltered once for only one half moment , he would have pinioned her but she was as firm as rock , and her searching eyes never left him . 
'We don't part so , he said . 
'God's mercy on you , if you try by coming near me ! she replied . 
'We must make a treaty of this , or I may take some unexpected course . 
Sit down , sit down ! 'Too late ! she cried , with eyes that seemed to sparkle fire . 
I'll die , and make no sign . 
For this , I am here alone with you , at the dead of night . 
For this , I have met you here , in a false name , as your wife . 
For this , I have been seen here by those men , and left here . 
Nothing can save you now . 
He would have sold his soul to root her , in her beauty , to the floor , and make her arms drop at her sides , and have her at his mercy . 
But he could not look at her , and not be afraid of her . 
He saw a strength within her that was resistless . 
He saw that she was desperate , and that her unquenchable hatred of him would stop at nothing . 
He did not venture , therefore , to advance towards her but the door by which he had entered was behind him , and he stepped back to lock it . 
'Lastly , take my warning ! Look to yourself ! she said , and smiled again . 
'You have been betrayed , as all betrayers are . 
It has been made known that you are in this place , or were to be , or have been . 
If I live , I saw my husband in a carriage in the street to night ! 'Strumpet , it's false ! cried Carker . 
At the moment , the bell rang loudly in the hall . 
He turned white , as she held her hand up like an enchantress , at whose invocation the sound had come . 
'Hark ! do you hear it ? He set his back against the door for he saw a change in her , and fancied she was coming on to pass him . 
But , in a moment , she was gone through the opposite doors communicating with the bed chamber , and they shut upon her . 
Once turned , once changed in her inflexible unyielding look , he felt that he could cope with her . 
He thought a sudden terror , occasioned by this night alarm , had subdued her not the less readily , for her overwrought condition . 
Throwing open the doors , he followed , almost instantly . 
But the room was dark and as she made no answer to his call , he was fain to go back for the lamp . 
He held it up , and looked round , everywhere , expecting to see her crouching in some corner but the room was empty . 
No , nor in the hall , which was so bare that he could see that , at a glance . 
All this time , the ringing at the bell was constantly renewed , and those without were beating at the door . 
He put his lamp down at a distance , and going near it , listened . 
He was standing thus in the bed chamber , when the door , leading to the little passage in the wall , caught his eye . 
He went to it , and found it fastened on the other side but she had dropped a veil in going through , and shut it in the door . 
All this time the people on the stairs were ringing at the bell , and knocking with their hands and feet . 
He tried the door in which the veil was shut , but couldn't force it . 
He opened one of the windows , and looked down through the lattice of the blind , into the court yard but it was a high leap , and the stones were pitiless . 
Lifting the latch softly , Carker crept out , and shutting the jangling gate after him with as little noise as possible , hurried off . 
In the fever of his mortification and unavailing rage , the panic that had seized upon him mastered him completely . 
It rose to such a height that he would have blindly encountered almost any risk , rather than meet the man of whom , two hours ago , he had been utterly regardless . 
But the springing of his mine upon himself , seemed to have rent and shivered all his hardihood and self reliance . 
He shrunk , as if to let the thing go by . 
It was not gone , it never had been there , yet what a startling horror it had left behind . 
'I am safer there , in any case . 
If I should not decide , he thought , 'to give this fool a meeting , I am less likely to be traced there , than abroad here , now . 
, at least I shall not be alone , with out a soul to speak to , or advise with , or stand by me . 
I shall not be run in upon and worried like a rat . 
He muttered Edith's name , and clenched his hand . 
Thus , he stole on to the gate of an inn yard . 
The bargain was a short one and the horses were soon sent for . 
There was no wind there was no passing shadow on the deep shade of the night there was no noise . 
The city lay behind hIm , lighted here and there , and starry worlds were hidden by the masonry of spire and roof that hardly made out any shapes against the sky . 
Dark and lonely distance lay around him everywhere , and the clocks were faintly striking two . 
He went forward for what appeared a long time , and a long way often stopping to listen . 
At last the ringing of horses' bells greeted his anxious ears . 
'Who goes there ! Monsieur ? 'Yes . 
'Monsieur has walked a long way in the dark midnight . 
Were there any other horses ordered at the Post house ? 'A thousand devils ! and pardons ! other horses ? at this hour ? No. 'Listen , my friend . 
Let us see how fast we can travel ! The faster , the more money there will be to drink . 
Nothing clear without , and nothing clear within . 
Beyond the shifting images that rose up in his mind and vanished as they showed themselves , a black expanse of dread and rage and baffled villainy . 
Occasionally , a sigh of mountain air came from the distant Jura , fading along the plain . 
Sometimes that rush which was so furious and horrible , again came sweeping through his fancy , passed away , and left a chill upon his blood . 
The lights and shadows dance upon the horses' heads like imps . 
No stopping now no slackening ! On , on Away with him upon the dark road wildly ! He could not think to any purpose . 
He could not separate one subject of reflection from another , sufficiently to dwell upon it , by itself , for a minute at a time . 
A hurry and contradiction pervaded all his thoughts . 
Even while he was so busy with this fevered , ineffectual thinking , his one constant idea was , that he would postpone reflection until some indefinite time . 
Then , the old days before the second marriage rose up in his remembrance . 
To have his confidence in his own knavery so shattered at a blow to be within his own knowledge such a miserable tool was like being paralysed . 
With an impotent ferocity he raged at Edith , and hated Mr Dombey and hated himself , but still he fled , and could do nothing else . 
Again and again he listened for the sound of wheels behind . 
Again and again his fancy heard it , coming on louder and louder . 
At last he was so persuaded of this , that he cried out , 'Stop' preferring even the loss of ground to such uncertainty . 
The word soon brought carriage , horses , driver , all in a heap together , across the road . 
'No , nothing but the day yonder . 
'You are right , I think . 
I hear nothing now , indeed . 
Then 'Hallo , whoop ! Hallo , hi ! Away once more , savagely . 
By and by , there were peasants going to their daily labour , or to market , or lounging at the doors of poor cottages , gazing idly at him as he passed . 
The same intolerable awe and dread that had come upon him in the night , returned unweakened in the day . 
Of morning , noon , and sunset night , and the rising of an early moon . 
Of never sleeping , but sometimes dozing with unclosed eyes , and springing up with a start , and a reply aloud to an imaginary voice . 
Of cursing himself for being there , for having fled , for having let her go , for not having confronted and defied him . 
Of having a deadly quarrel with the whole world , but chiefly with himself . 
Of blighting everything with his black mood as he was carried on and away . 
It was a fevered vision of things past and present all confounded together of his life and journey blended into one . 
Of being madly hurried somewhere , whither he must go . 
Of old scenes starting up among the novelties through which he travelled . 
A vision of change upon change , and still the same monotony of bells and wheels , and horses' feet , and no rest . 
Of being parched and giddy , and half mad . 
A troubled vision , then , of bridges , quays , interminable streets of wine shops , water carriers , great crowds of people , soldiers , coaches , military drums , arcades . 
Of the monotony of bells and wheels and horses' feet being at length lost in the universal din and uproar . 
Of the gradual subsidence of that noise as he passed out in another carriage by a different barrier from that by which he had entered . 
Of the restoration , as he travelled on towards the seacoast , of the monotony of bells and wheels , and horses' feet , and no rest . 
Of sunset once again , and nightfall . 
Of dawn , and daybreak , and the rising of the sun . 
Of tolling slowly up a hill , and feeling on its top the fresh sea breeze and seeing the morning light upon the edges of the distant waves . 
Of coming down into a harbour when the tide was at its full , and seeing fishing boats float on , and glad women and children waiting for them . 
Of the swell , and flash , and murmur of the calm sea . 
Of another grey line on the ocean , on the vessel's track , fast growing clearer and higher . 
Of cliffs and buildings , and a windmill , and a church , becoming more and more visible upon it . 
Of steaming on at last into smooth water , and mooring to a pier whence groups of people looked down , greeting friends on board . 
Of disembarking , passing among them quickly , shunning every one and of being at last again in England . 
Here , he indistinctly resolved to tarry and rest . 
Arrived at his destination he looked out , and surveyed it carefully . 
He was not mistaken in his impression of the place . 
It was a retired spot , on the borders of a little wood . 
Only one house , newly built or altered for the purpose , stood there , surrounded by its neat garden the small town that was nearest , was some miles away . 
Here he alighted then and going straight into the tavern , unobserved by anyone , secured two rooms upstairs communicating with each other , and sufficiently retired . 
His object was to rest , and recover the command of himself , and the balance of his mind . 
Imbecile discomfiture and rage so that , as he walked about his room , he ground his teeth had complete possession of him . 
His thoughts , not to be stopped or directed , still wandered where they would , and dragged him after them . 
He was stupefied , and he was wearied to death . 
But , as if there were a curse upon him that he should never rest again , his drowsy senses would not lose their consciousness . 
He had no more influence with them , in this regard , than if they had been another man's . 
It was not that they forced him to take note of present sounds and objects , but that they would not be diverted from the whole hurried vision of his journey . 
It was constantly before him all at once . 
'What day is this ? he asked of the waiter , who was making preparations for his dinner . 
'Day , Sir ? 'Is it Wednesday ? 'Wednesday , Sir ? No , Sir . 
How goes the time ? My watch is unwound . 
'Wants a few minutes of five o'clock , Sir . 
Been travelling a long time , Sir , perhaps ? 'Yes' 'By rail , Sir ? 'Yes' 'Very confusing , Sir . 
Not much in the habit of travelling by rail myself , Sir , but gentlemen frequently say so . 
'Do many gentlemen come here ? 'Pretty well , Sir , in general . 
Rather slack just now , Sir . 
Everything is slack , Sir . 
He could not master his own attention for a minute together . 
It rushed away where it would , but it never , for an instant , lost itself in sleep . 
He drank a quantity of wine after dinner , in vain . 
No such artificial means would bring sleep to his eyes . 
His thoughts , more incoherent , dragged him more unmercifully after them as if a wretch , condemned to such expiation , were drawn at the heels of wild horses . 
No oblivion , and no rest . 
How long he sat , drinking and brooding , and being dragged in imagination hither and thither , no one could have told less correctly than he . 
But he knew that he had been sitting a long time by candle light , when he started up and listened , in a sudden terror . 
For now , indeed , it was no fancy . 
He walked back to his former point , and back again to that , and still , through the wearisome vision of his journey , looked for these approaching monsters . 
When he went back to his room , which was not until near midnight , they still haunted him , and he sat listening for the coming of another . 
So in his bed , whither he repaired with no hope of sleep . 
So far from resuming the mastery of himself , he seemed , if possible , to lose it more and more , as the night crept on . 
Express comes through at four , Sir . 
He passed his hand across his throbbing head , and looked at his watch . 
'Nobody going with you , Sir , probably , observed the man . 
'Two gentlemen here , Sir , but they're waiting for the train to London . 
'I thought you said there was nobody here , said Carker , turning upon him with the ghost of his old smile , when he was angry or suspicious . 
Two gentlemen came in the night by the short train that stops here , Sir . 
Warm water , Sir ? 'No and take away the candle . 
There's day enough for me . 
Having thrown himself upon the bed , half dressed he was at the window as the man left the room . 
The cold light of morning had succeeded to night and there was already , in the sky , the red suffusion of the coming sun . 
He bathed his head and face with water there was no cooling influence in it for him hurriedly put on his clothes , paid what he owed , and went out . 
The air struck chill and comfortless as it breathed upon him . 
There was a heavy dew and , hot as he was , it made him shiver . 
So awful , so transcendent in its beauty , so divinely solemn . 
He was marked off the living world , and going down into his grave . 
In the quick unsteadiness of the surprise , he staggered , and slipped on to the road below him . 
Several People delighted , and the Game Chicken disgusted The Midshipman was all alive . 
Mr Toots and Susan had arrived at last . 
Susan had run upstairs like a young woman bereft of her senses , and Mr Toots and the Chicken had gone into the Parlour . 
'Who told you so ? said Florence . 
'Oh gracious me ! that innocentest creetur Toots , returned Susan hysterically . 
'I knew he must be right my dear , because he took on so . 
'There , there ! said the soothing voice of Florence presently . 
'I I I never did see such a creetur as that Toots , said Susan , 'in all my born days never ! 'So kind , suggested Florence . 
'And so comic ! Susan sobbed . 
'The way he's been going on inside with me with that disrespectable Chicken on the box ! 'About what , Susan ? inquired Florence , timidly . 
'Oh about Lieutenant Walters , and Captain Gills , and you my dear Miss Floy , and the silent tomb , said Susan . 
'The silent tomb ! repeated Florence . 
'Miss Dombey , said Mr Toots . 
'To be again permitted to to gaze at least , not to gaze , but I don't exactly know what I was going to say , but it's of no consequence . 
As there seemed to be no means of replying to this , but by thanking him again , Florence thanked him again . 
'I could wish , said Mr Toots , 'to take this opportunity , Miss Dombey , if I might , of entering into a word of explanation . 
Florence was sure of it . 
'This , however , said Mr Toots , 'is not the point . 
The company of Susan has been , I assure you , Miss Dombey , a consolation and satisfaction to me , in my state of mind , more easily conceived than described . 
The journey has been its own reward . 
That , however , still , is not the point . 
Miss Dombey , I have before observed that I know I am not what is considered a quick person . 
I am perfectly aware of that . 
I don't think anybody could be better acquainted with his own if it was not too strong an expression , I should say with the thickness of his own head than myself . 
But , Miss Dombey , I do , notwithstanding , perceive the state of of things with Lieutenant Walters . 
, I am bound to say , that Lieutenant Walters is a person who appears to be worthy of the blessing that has fallen on his on his brow . 
It would afford me pleasure so to come . 
I shall not consider it at all unkind , and shall only be too delighted and happy to be honoured with your confidence . 
It can never , never , give me any feeling but pleasure to see you . 
'Miss Dombey , said Mr Toots , taking out his pocket handkerchief , 'if I shed a tear , it is a tear of joy . 
It is of no consequence , and I am very much obliged to you . 
I may be allowed to remark , after what you have so kindly said , that it is not my intention to neglect my person any longer . 
Florence received this intimation with the prettiest expression of perplexity possible . 
This is the last time , Miss Dombey , of my intruding any observation of a private and personal nature . 
I thank you very much indeed . 
'Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , 'what is now to take place between us , takes place under the sacred seal of confidence . 
It is the sequel , Captain Gills , of what has taken place between myself and Miss Dombey , upstairs . 
'Alow and aloft , eh , my lad ? murmured the Captain . 
'Exactly so , Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , whose fervour of acquiescence was greatly heightened by his entire ignorance of the Captain's meaning . 
'Miss Dombey , I believe , Captain Gills , is to be shortly united to Lieutenant Walters ? 'Why , ay , my lad . 
'The askings , Captain Gills ! repeated Mr Toots . 
'In the church , down yonder , said the Captain , pointing his thumb over his shoulder . 
'Oh ! Yes ! returned Mr Toots . 
'Ay ! nodded the Captain . 
, and now he's supercargo aboard another ship , same owners . 
And so , you see , repeated the Captain , thoughtfully , 'the pretty creetur goes away upon the roaring main with Wal'r , on a woyage to China . 
Mr Toots and Captain Cuttle heaved a sigh in concert . 
'What then ? said the Captain . 
Them as should have loved and tended of her , treated of her like the beasts as perish . 
When she , cast out of home , come here to me , and dropped upon them planks , her wownded heart was broke . 
I , Ed'ard Cuttle , see it . 
There's nowt but true , kind , steady love , as can ever piece it up again . 
You are aware , Captain Gills , that I , too , have adored Miss Dombey . 
'Cheer up ! said the Captain , laying his hand on Mr Toots's shoulder . 
'Stand by , boy ! 'It is my intention , Captain Gills , returned the spirited Mr Toots , 'to cheer up . 
Also to standby , as much as possible . 
When the silent tomb shall yawn , Captain Gills , I shall be ready for burial not before . 
'Is as follers , echoed the Captain . 
But what I ask is this . 
'My lad , returned the Captain , 'say no more . 
There ain't a colour you can run up , as won't be made out , and answered to , by Wal'r and self . 
'Captain Gills , said Mr Toots , 'my mind is greatly relieved . 
I wish to preserve the good opinion of all here . 
I I mean well , upon my honour , however badly I may show it . 
You know , said Mr Toots , 'it's as exactly as Burgess and Co . 
wished to oblige a customer with a most extraordinary pair of trousers , and could not cut out what they had in their minds . 
With this apposite illustration , of which he seemed a little Proud , Mr Toots gave Captain Cuttle his blessing and departed . 
The honest Captain , with his Heart's Delight in the house , and Susan tending her , was a beaming and a happy man . 
As the days flew by , he grew more beaming and more happy , every day . 
Susan , being present , then named , in furtherance of a suggestion she had previously offered to the Captain , Mrs Richards . 
Florence brightened at the name . 
'Well Miss Floy , and what of that ? the more you'll want me . 
Lengths of voyages ain't an object in my eyes , thank God ! said the impetuous Susan Nipper . 
'Alone , Susan ? returned Florence . 
'Alone ? and Walter taking me with him ! Ah , what a bright , amazed , enraptured smile was on her face ! He should have seen it . 
'I am sure you will not speak to Walter if I ask you not , she added tenderly 'and pray don't , dear . 
Was her little mistress really , really going to be married , and pitying , caressing , and protecting her , as she had done before . 
But the Nipper , though susceptible of womanly weaknesses , was almost as capable of putting constraint upon herself as of attacking the redoubtable MacStinger . 
From that time , she never returned to the subject , but was always cheerful , active , bustling , and hopeful . 
After this , he smoked four pipes successively in the little parlour by himself , and was discovered chuckling , at the expiration of as many hours . 
Walter was busy and away all day , but came there every morning early to see Florence , and always passed the evening with her . 
In the twilight they were always together . 
It rose against her father with the breath she drew , it lay between her and her lover when he pressed her to his heart . 
In the beating of that heart for her , and in the beating of her own for him , all harsher music was unheard , all stern unloving hearts forgotten . 
'Walter , dear , said Florence , one evening , when it was almost dark . 
I have been thinking what a charge I am to you . 
'A precious , sacred charge , dear heart ! Why , I think that sometimes . 
'You are laughing , Walter . 
I know that's much more in your thoughts than mine . 
But I mean a cost . 
'A cost , my own ? 'In money , dear . 
All these preparations that Susan and I are so busy with I have been able to purchase very little for myself . 
But how much poorer I shall make you , Walter ! 'And how much richer , Florence ! Florence laughed , and shook her head . 
'Besides , said Walter , 'long ago before I went to sea I had a little purse presented to me , dearest , which had money in it . 
No , dear love , I am glad of it . 
I am happy in it . 
I wouldn't have it otherwise for all the world ! 'Nor I , indeed , dear Florence . 
'Ay ! but , Walter , you can never feel it as I do . 
'No , nothing , Walter . 
The light hand stole about his neck , and the voice came nearer nearer . 
'I am nothing any more , that is not you . 
I have no earthly hope any more , that is not you . 
I have nothing dear to me any more , that is not you . 
Shall we go away that morning , and stay in Kent until we go on board at Gravesend within a week ? 'If you please , Walter . 
I shall be happy anywhere . 
But 'Yes , my life ? 'You know , said Florence , 'that we shall have no marriage party , and that nobody will distinguish us by our dress from other people . 
The Captain's visage on these occasions presented one of the finest examples of combination and succession of expression ever observed . 
One of Mr Toots's hardest trials , however , was of his own seeking . 
On the approach of the Sunday which was to witness the last of those askings in church of which the Captain had spoken , Mr Toots thus stated his feelings to Susan Nipper . 
'Susan , said Mr Toots , 'I am drawn towards the building . 
'Susan , returned Mr Toots , with much solemnity , 'before my whiskers began to be observed by anybody but myself , I adored Miss Dombey . 
While yet a victim to the thraldom of Blimber , I adored Miss Dombey . 
When I could no longer be kept out of my property , in a legal point of view , and and accordingly came into it I adored Miss Dombey . 
Susan Nipper could only commiserate Mr Toots's unfortunate condition , and agree , under these circumstances , to accompany him which she did next morning . 
But so far was this city church from languishing for the company of other churches , that spires were clustered round it , as the masts of shipping cluster on the river . 
It would have been hard to count them from its steeple top , they were so many . 
In almost every yard and blind place near , there was a church . 
The confusion of bells when Susan and Mr Toots betook themselves towards it on the Sunday morning , was deafening . 
There were twenty churches close together , clamouring for people to come in . 
Mr Toots , however , appearing unable to keep his thoughts from the banns , was evidently looking out for them during the whole preliminary portion of the service . 
But the extreme restlessness of Mr Toots painfully increased and protracted the delicacy of her situation . 
Swiftly now , indeed , the time flew by until it was the evening before the day appointed for the marriage . 
They were grave and quiet in the prospect of to morrow , but moderately cheerful too . 
Florence , with Walter close beside her , was finishing a little piece of work intended as a parting gift to the Captain . 
The Captain was playing cribbage with Mr Toots . 
Mr Toots was taking counsel as to his hand , of Susan Nipper . 
Miss Nipper was giving it , with all due secrecy and circumspection . 
Now , Brother to Mr Toots 'if so be as you're ready , heave ahead . 
In another moment , Walter was in the arms of the weather beaten pea coat . 
In another moment , Florence was in the arms of the weather beaten pea coat . 
During this pause , there was an universal silence , and the Captain polished his nose with great diligence . 
Exactly so , Captain Gills ! assented Mr Toots . 
I hope , said Mr Toots , 'that you're as well as can be expected . 
With these courteous words , Mr Toots sat down blushing and chuckling . 
'Hear him ! cried the Captain gravely . 
''Tis woman as seduces all mankind . 
For which , aside to Mr Toots , 'you'll overhaul your Adam and Eve , brother . 
'I shall make a point of doing so , Captain Gills , said Mr Toots . 
'Write ! echoed the Captain . 
'Write , Sol Gills ? 'Ay , said the old man , 'either to Barbados , or Jamaica , or Demerara , That was what I asked . 
'What you asked , Sol Gills ? repeated the Captain . 
'Ay , said the old man . 
'Don't you know , Ned ? Sure you have not forgotten ? Every time I wrote to you . 
'You don't appear to understand me , Ned ! observed old Sol . 
'Sol Gills , returned the Captain , after staring at him and the rest for a long time , without speaking , 'I'm gone about and adrift . 
Pay out a word or two respecting them adwenturs , will you ! Can't I bring up , nohows ? Nohows ? said the Captain , ruminating , and staring all round . 
'You know , Ned , said Sol Gills , 'why I left here . 
Did you open my packet , Ned ? 'Why , ay , ay , said the Captain . 
'To be sure , I opened the packet . 
'And read it ? said the old man . 
'And read it , answered the Captain , eyeing him attentively , and proceeding to quote it from memory . 
Now attend a moment ! said the old man . 
When I wrote next that , I think , was from Demerara , wasn't it ? 'That he thinks was from Demerara , warn't it ! said the Captain , looking hopelessly round . 
'I said , proceeded old Sol , 'that still there was no certain information got yet . 
'Began to think as how he was a scientific Flying Dutchman ! said the Captain , as before , and with great seriousness . 
Not one of them letters was ever delivered to Ed'ard Cuttle . 
The colour all went out of the Captain's face and all came back again in a glow . 
'What do you mean , Sol Gills , my friend , by Number nine Brig Place ? inquired the Captain . 
'Mean ? Your lodgings , Ned , returned the old man . 
'Mrs What's her name ! I shall forget my own name next , but I am behind the present time I always was , you recollect and very much confused . 
'Overhaul that there again , Sol Gills , will you be so kind ? he said at last . 
The Captain took his glazed hat off his hook , looked into it , put it on , and sat down . 
'Bless your heart , Wal'r , said the Captain , shaking his head , 'she'd never have allowed o' my coming to take charge o' this here property . 
Nothing could be done but cut and run . 
'Would you , do you think , my dear ? returned the Captain , with feeble admiration . 
'Well , my dear , it does you credit . 
But there ain't no wild animal I wouldn't sooner face myself . 
I only got my chest away by means of a friend as nobody's a match for . 
It was no good sending any letter there . 
Here they were soon afterwards joined by Walter , who told them Florence was a little sorrowful and heavy hearted , and had gone to bed . 
'This is the last night we shall meet for a long time the last night we may ever meet , said Walter . 
'Such a noble heart as yours , must feel , I think , when another heart is bound to it . 
with her dear love , said Walter , 'that she can never have a friend whom she will value above you . 
That the recollection of your true consideration for her always , can never be forgotten by her . 
That she remembers you in her prayers to night , and hopes that you will think of her when she is far away . 
Say , if you please , that I am sure her husband deserves her even her ! and that I am glad of her choice . 
Mr Toots got more distinct as he came to these last words , and raising his eyes from the doorpost , said them stoutly . 
He then shook Walter's hand again with a fervour that Walter was not slow to return and started homeward . 
The Chicken did not appear to be in a particularly good humour on this occasion . 
On the road home , he was more demonstrative of aggressive intentions against the other foot passengers , than comported with a professor of the peaceful art of self defence . 
, with an air of decided disrespect . 
'Why then , here's all about it , Master , said the Chicken . 
'I ain't a cove to chuck a word away . 
'Is it to be gammon or pluck ? Which ? Chicken , returned Mr Toots , 'your expressions are coarse , and your meaning is obscure . 
'Why , then , I tell you what , Master , said the Chicken . 
'This is where it is . 
'What is mean , Chicken ? asked Mr Toots . 
'It is , said the Chicken , with a frightful corrugation of his broken nose . 
'Wy , it's mean ! 'Chicken , said Mr Toots , severely , 'you're a perfect Vulture ! Your sentiments are atrocious . 
'My sentiments is Game and Fancy , Master , returned the Chicken . 
'That's wot my sentiments is . 
I can't abear a meanness . 
I'm afore the public , I'm to be heerd on at the bar of the Little Helephant , and no Gov'ner o' mine mustn't go and do what's mean . 
Wy , it's mean , said the Chicken , with increased expression . 
'Chicken , said Mr Toots , 'you disgust me . 
'Master , returned the Chicken , putting on his hat , 'there's a pair on us , then . 
Come ! Here's a offer ! You've spoke to me more than once't or twice't about the public line . 
Never mind ! Give me a fi'typunnote to morrow , and let me go . 
'Chicken , returned Mr Toots , 'after the odious sentiments you have expressed , I shall be glad to part on such terms . 
'Done then , said the Chicken . 
This here conduct of yourn won't suit my book , Master . 
Wy , it's mean , said the Chicken who seemed equally unable to get beyond that point , and to stop short of it . 
Another Wedding Mr Sownds the beadle , and Mrs Miff the pew opener , are early at their posts in the fine church where Mr Dombey was married . 
, but she can never understand what business your common folks have to be married . 
'It must be done , Ma'am , he says . 
We must have our national schools to walk at the head of , and we must have our standing armies . 
We must marry 'em , Ma'am , says Mr Sownds , 'and keep the country going . 
Mr Sownds is sitting on the steps and Mrs Miff is dusting in the church , when a young couple , plainly dressed , come in . 
The mortified bonnet of Mrs Miff is sharply turned towards them , for she espies in this early visit indications of a runaway match . 
But they don't want to be married 'Only , says the gentleman , 'to walk round the church . 
And as he slips a genteel compliment into the palm of Mrs Miff , her vinegary face relaxes , and her mortified bonnet and her spare dry figure dip and crackle . 
'Well , well , says Mrs Miff , 'you might do worse . 
For you're a tidy pair ! There is nothing personal in Mrs Miff's remark . 
She merely speaks of stock in trade . 
She is hardly more curious in couples than in coffins . 
She is such a spare , straight , dry old lady such a pew of a woman that you should find as many individual sympathies in a chip . 
Mr Sownds , now , who is fleshy , and has scarlet in his coat , is of a different temperament . 
, an uncommon pretty face . 
'Altogether , Mrs Miff , says Mr Sownds with a relish , 'she is what you may call a rose bud . 
'And when we come back , Florence , we will come and see his grave again . 
Florence lifts her eyes , so bright with tears , to his kind face and clasps her disengaged hand on that other modest little hand which clasps his arm . 
'It is very early , Walter , and the streets are almost empty yet . 
'But you will be so tired , my love . 
'Oh no ! I was very tired the first time that we ever walked together , but I shall not be so to day . 
Not even in that childish walk of long ago , were they so far removed from all the world about them as to day . 
The childish feet of long ago , did not tread such enchanted ground as theirs do now . 
They take the streets that are the quietest , and do not go near that in which her old home stands . 
It is a fair , warm summer morning , and the sun shines on them , as they walk towards the darkening mist that overspreads the City . 
Riches are uncovering in shops jewels , gold , and silver flash in the goldsmith's sunny windows and great houses cast a stately shade upon them as they pass . 
Lovingly and trustfully , through all the narrow yards and alleys and the shady streets , Florence goes , clinging to his arm , to be his wife . 
Her heart beats quicker now , for Walter tells her that their church is very near . 
Youthful , and how beautiful , the young bride looks , in this old dusty place , with no kindred object near her but her husband . 
There is a dusty old clerk , who keeps a sort of evaporated news shop underneath an archway opposite , behind a perfect fortification of posts . 
There is a dusty old pew opener who only keeps herself , and finds that quite enough to do . 
, who has something to do with a Worshipful Company who have got a Hall in the next yard , with a stained glass window in it that no mortal ever saw . 
There are dusty old sounding boards over the pulpit and reading desk , looking like lids to be let down on the officiating ministers in case of their giving offence . 
There is every possible provision for the accommodation of dust , except in the churchyard , where the facilities in that respect are very limited . 
There is no bridesmaid , unless Susan Nipper is one and no better father than Captain Cuttle . 
No gracious ray of light is seen to fall on Florence , kneeling at the altar with her timid head bowed down . 
The morning luminary is built out , and don't shine there . 
They are married , and have signed their names in one of the old sneezy registers , and the clergyman's surplice is restored to the dust , and the clergymam is gone home . 
In a dark corner of the dark church , Florence has turned to Susan Nipper , and is weeping in her arms . 
Mr Toots's eyes are red . 
The Captain lubricates his nose . 
Uncle Sol has pulled down his spectacles from his forehead , and walked out to the door . 
Good bye ! Good bye ! They have thought it better not to go back to the Midshipman , but to part so a coach is waiting for them , near at hand . 
Miss Nipper cannot speak she only sobs and chokes , and hugs her mistress . 
Mr Toots advances , urges her to cheer up , and takes charge of her . 
Florence gives him her hand gives him , in the fulness of her heart , her lips kisses Uncle Sol , and Captain Cuttle , and is borne away by her young husband . 
But Susan cannot bear that Florence should go away with a mournful recollection of her . 
She had meant to be so different , that she reproaches herself bitterly . 
Intent on making one last effort to redeem her character , she breaks from Mr Toots and runs away to find the coach , and show a parting smile . 
The Captain , divining her object , sets off after her for he feels it his duty also to dismiss them with a cheer , if possible . 
Uncle Sol and Mr Toots are left behind together , outside the church , to wait for them . 
Captain Cuttle follows her as she flies down the hill , and waves his glazed hat as a general signal , which may attract the right coach and which may not . 
Susan outstrips the Captain , and comes up with it . 
We are all so happy now , my dear Miss Floy ! says Susan , with a suspicious catching in her breath . 
'You , you won't be angry with me now . 
Now will you ? 'Angry , Susan ! 'No , no I am sure you won't . 
'Hooroar , Wal'r my lad . 
But Susan Nipper gallantly maintains her point . 
She keeps a smiling face upon her mistress , smiling through her tears , until the last . 
Finally , when the coach is gone , Susan Nipper , being rejoined by the Captain , falls into a state of insensibility , and is taken into a baker's shop to recover . 
When they all arrive again at the little Midshipman , and sit down to breakfast , nobody can touch a morsel . 
Captain Cuttle makes a feint of being voracious about toast , but gives it up as a swindle . 
There is a strange charm in the house , and in the room , in which they have been used to be together , and out of which so much is gone . 
It aggravates , and yet it soothes , the sorrow of the separation . 
Mr Toots tells Susan Nipper when he comes at night , that he hasn't been so wretched all day long , and yet he likes it . 
In the vein of confidence engendered by these common recollections , and their tears , Mr Toots proposes that they shall go out together , and buy something for supper . 
The Captain and old Sol have been on board the ship , and have established Di there , and have seen the chests put aboard . 
'A admiral's cabin , mind you , says the Captain , 'ain't more trim . 
You see how the land bore , Ed'ard , says the Captain , 'and it does you credit , my lad . 
The old Instrument maker is more distraught and misty than he used to be , and takes the marriage and the parting very much to heart . 
But he is greatly comforted by having his old ally , Ned Cuttle , at his side and he sits down to supper with a grateful and contented face . 
'My boy has been preserved and thrives , says old Sol Gills , rubbing his hands . 
'To Mr Dombey , says the old man . 
To be sent in three weeks' time . 
I am married to your daughter . 
She is gone with me upon a distant voyage . 
To be devoted to her is to have no claim on her or you , but God knows that I am . 
Why , loving her beyond all earthly things , I have yet , without remorse , united her to the uncertainties and dangers of my life , I will not say to you . 
You know why , and you are her father . 
She has never reproached you . 
I do not think or hope that you will ever forgive me . 
There is nothing I expect less . 
Solomon puts back the letter carefully in his pocket book , and puts back his pocket book in his coat . 
'We won't drink the last bottle of the old Madeira yet , Ned , says the old man thoughtfully . 
'Not yet , assents the Captain . 
Susan and Mr Toots are of the same opinion . 
A few days have elapsed , and a stately ship is out at sea , spreading its white wings to the favouring wind . 
It is night , and she and Walter sit alone , watching the solemn path of light upon the sea between them and the moon . 
'As I hear the sea , says Florence , 'and sit watching it , it brings so many days into my mind . 
It makes me think so much 'Of Paul , my love . 
After a Lapse The sea had ebbed and flowed , through a whole year . 
Through a whole year , the winds and clouds had come and gone the ceaseless work of Time had been performed , in storm and sunshine . 
Through a whole year , the tides of human chance and change had set in their allotted courses . 
The year was out , and the great House was down . 
One summer afternoon a year , wanting some odd days , after the marriage in the City church there was a buzz and whisper upon 'Change of a great failure . 
A certain cold proud man , well known there , was not there , nor was he represented there . 
Next day it was noised abroad that Dombey and Son had stopped , and next night there was a List of Bankrupts published , headed by that name . 
The world was very busy now , in sooth , and had a deal to say . 
It was an innocently credulous and a much ill used world . 
It was a world in which there was 'no other sort of bankruptcy whatever . 
There were no conspicuous people in it , trading far and wide on rotten banks of religion , patriotism , virtue , honour . 
There was no amount worth mentioning of mere paper in circulation , on which anybody lived pretty handsomely , promising to pay great sums of goodness with no effects . 
There were no shortcomings anywhere , in anything but money . 
was received as doing great honour to his feelings . 
To Major Bagstock , the bankruptcy was quite a calamity . 
For six entire weeks after the bankruptcy , this miserable foreigner lived in a rainy season of boot jacks and brushes . 
Mrs Chick had three ideas upon the subject of the terrible reverse . 
The first was that she could not understand it . 
The second , that her brother had not made an effort . 
Nobody's opinion stayed the misfortune , lightened it , or made it heavier . 
The clerks dispersed after holding a little dinner of condolence among themselves , which was enlivened by comic singing , and went off admirably . 
The Counting House soon got to be dirty and neglected . 
was not , in his opinion , made to rhyme to perdition , for nothing . 
He had , therefore , no self disrespect to avenge no long tightened springs to release with a quick recoil . 
'In mourning , she said . 
The violoncello stopped immediately and the performer , laying it on the sofa with great tenderness and care , made a sign that the lady was to come in . 
He followed directly , and met Harriet Carker on the stair . 
'Alone ! he said , 'and John here this morning ! Is there anything the matter , my dear ? But no , he added , 'your face tells quite another story . 
'I am afraid it is a selfish revelation that you see there , then , she answered . 
'It is a very pleasant one , said he 'and , if selfish , a novelty too , worth seeing in you . 
But I don't believe that . 
He had placed a chair for her by this time , and sat down opposite the violoncello lying snugly on the sofa between them . 
May I do so now ? 'You can do nothing better . 
'You were not busy ? He pointed to the violoncello lying on the sofa , and said 'I have been , all day . 
I have been confiding all my cares to it . 
I wish I had none but my own to tell . 
'Is the House at an end ? said Harriet , earnestly . 
'Will it never be resumed ? 'Never . 
The bright expression of her face was not overshadowed as her lips silently repeated the word . 
He seemed to observe this with some little involuntary surprise and said again 'Never . 
You remember what I told you . 
It has been , all along , impossible to convince him impossible to reason with him sometimes , impossible even to approach him . 
The worst has happened and the House has fallen , never to be built up any more . 
'And Mr Dombey , is he personally ruined ? 'Ruined . 
He is a gentleman of high honour and integrity . 
But he is resolved on payment to the last farthing of his means . 
His own words are , that they will clear , or nearly clear , the House , and that no one can lose much . 
She heard him with little or no change in her expression , and with a divided attention that showed her to be busy with something in her own mind . 
When he was silent , she asked him hurriedly 'Have you seen him lately ? 'No one sees him . 
He has written me a letter , acknowledging our past connexion in higher terms than it deserved , and parting from me . 
I am delicate of obtruding myself upon him now , never having had much intercourse with him in better times but I have tried to do so . 
I have written , gone there , entreated . 
'Well , well , Miss Harriet , he said , with a disappointed air , 'this is not to the purpose . 
You have not come here to hear this . 
Some other and pleasanter theme is in your mind . 
Let it be in mine , too , and we shall talk upon more equal terms . 
Come ! 'No , it is the same theme , returned Harriet , with frank and quick surprise . 
'I need not remind you , said Harriet , casting down her eyes upon her black dress , 'through what means our circumstances changed . 
You have not forgotten that our brother James , upon that dreadful day , left no will , no relations but ourselves . 
The face was pleasanter to him now , though it was pale and melancholy , than it had been a moment since . 
He seemed to breathe more cheerily . 
'You know , she said , 'our history , the history of both my brothers , in connexion with the unfortunate , unhappy gentleman , of whom you have spoken so truly . 
You are not unprepared to hear what favour I have come to ask of you ? 'I hardly know . 
I was , a minute ago . 
Now , I think , I am not . 
'Of my dead brother I say nothing . 
If the dead know what we do but you understand me . 
'Dear Sir , she went on to say , 'it must be done very quietly and secretly . 
Your experience and knowledge will point out a way of doing it . 
There must be many ways of doing it . 
I know you will choose the best . 
The favour I have come to ask is , that you will do it for us in your own kind , generous , considerate manner . 
Such a look of exultation there may be on Angels' faces when the one repentant sinner enters Heaven , among ninety nine just men . 
It was not dimmed or tarnished by the joyful tears that filled her eyes , but was the brighter for them . 
'My dear Harriet , said Mr Morfin , after a silence , 'I was not prepared for this . 
'We may rely on your friendly help ? she said . 
Upon my honour , I will keep your secret . 
She gave him her hand , and thanked him with a cordial , happy face . 
'Harriet , he said , detaining it in his . 
'To speak to you of the worth of any sacrifice that you can make now above all , of any sacrifice of mere money would be idle and presumptuous . 
To put before you any appeal to reconsider your purpose or to set narrow limits to it , would be , I feel , not less so . 
I have no right to mar the great end of a great history , by any obtrusion of my own weak self . 
I have every right to bend my head before what you confide to me , satisfied that it comes from a higher and better source of inspiration than my poor worldly knowledge . 
I will say only this I am your faithful steward and I would rather be so , and your chosen friend , than I would be anybody in the world , except yourself . 
She thanked him again , cordially , and wished him good night . 
'Are you going home ? he said . 
'Let me go with you . 
I am not going home now I have a visit to make alone . 
Will you come to morrow ? 'Well , well , said he , 'I'll come to morrow . 
In the meantime , I'll think of this , and how we can best proceed . 
And perhaps I'll think of it , dear Harriet , and and think of me a little in connexion with it . 
At the garden gate of one of these he stopped , and Harriet alighted . 
'How is your patient , nurse , to night ? said Harriet . 
'In a poor way , Miss , I am afraid . 
Oh how she do remind me , sometimes , of my Uncle's Betsey Jane ! returned the woman of the light complexion , in a sort of doleful rapture . 
'In what respect ? asked Harriet . 
'Miss , in all respects , replied the other , 'except that she's grown up , and Betsey Jane , when at death's door , was but a child . 
'But you have told me she recovered , observed Harriet mildly 'so there is the more reason for hope , Mrs Wickam . 
'Ah , Miss , hope is an excellent thing for such as has the spirits to bear it ! said Mrs Wickam , shaking her head . 
'My own spirits is not equal to it , but I don't owe it any grudge . 
I envys them that is so blest ! 'You should try to be more cheerful , remarked Harriet . 
'Thank you , Miss , I'm sure , said Mrs Wickam grimly . 
The little spirits that I ever had , I was bereaved of at Brighton some few years ago , and I think I feel myself the better for it . 
In the first room , an old woman sat mechanically staring out at the open window , on the darkness . 
Harriet had sat down by the bedside now , and put her hand upon the thin hand lying there . 
'You are better ? Mrs Wickam , standing at the foot of the bed , like a disconsolate spectre , most decidedly and forcibly shook her head to negative this position . 
'It matters very little ! said Alice , with a faint smile . 
'Better or worse to day , is but a day's difference perhaps not so much . 
It will not last much longer . 
She drew the hand up as she spoke , and laid her face against it . 
Better for you as it is . 
Mrs Wickam having clinked sufficiently among the bottles , now produced the mixture . 
'A year and more , said Alice , thoughtfully intent upon her face . 
'Months upon months since you brought me here ! Harriet answered 'Yes . 
'Brought me here , by force of gentleness and kindness . 
By and bye , Alice lying as before , with the hand against her face , asked to have her mother called . 
Harriet called to her more than once , but the old woman was so absorbed looking out at the open window on the darkness , that she did not hear . 
It was not until Harriet went to her and touched her , that she rose up , and came . 
'Don't grieve for that now . 
'My daughter , faltered the old woman , 'my gal who'll soon get better , and shame 'em all with her good looks . 
Alice smiled mournfully at Harriet , and fondled her hand a little closer , but said nothing . 
'Who'll soon get better , I say , repeated the old woman , menacing the vacant air with her shrivelled fist , 'and who'll shame 'em all with her good looks she will . 
Ah ! To proud folks ! There's relationship without your clergy and your wedding rings they may make it , but they can't break it and my daughter's well related . 
Show me Mrs Dombey , and I'll show you my Alice's first cousin . 
Harriet glanced from the old woman to the lustrous eyes intent upon her face , and derived corroboration from them . 
'What ! cried the old woman , her nodding head bridling with a ghastly vanity . 
'Though I am old and ugly now , much older by life and habit than years though , I was once as young as any . 
She raised her head a little , and peered at her daughter's face as if from the remembrance of her own youth , she had flown to the remembrance of her child's . 
Then , suddenly , she laid her face down on the bed , and shut her head up in her hands and arms . 
Oh ! is the likeness gone , and is it my gal only my gal that's to change so ! 'We shall all change , mother , in our turn , said Alice . 
I found it out when I began to ask who she was , and all about her , away in Warwickshire there , one summer time . 
Such relations was no good to me , then . 
They wouldn't have owned me , and had nothing to give me . 
The eyes of Alice had all this time been fixed on Harriet , whose hand she had never released . 
She said now 'I have felt , lying here , that I should like you to know this . 
It might explain , I have thought , something that used to help to harden me . 
It is like a dream , now , which I cannot quite remember or understand . 
It has been more and more like a dream , every day , since you began to sit here , and to read to me . 
I only tell it you , as I can recollect it . 
Will you read to me a little more ? Harriet was withdrawing her hand to open the book , when Alice detained it for a moment . 
'You will not forget my mother ? I forgive her , if I have any cause . 
I know that she forgives me , and is sorry in her heart . 
You will not forget her ? 'Never , Alice ! 'A moment yet . 
Lay your head so , dear , that as you read I may see the words in your kind face . 
'I shall come , said Harriet , when she shut the book , 'very early in the morning . 
The lustrous eyes , yet fixed upon her face , closed for a moment , then opened and Alice kissed and blest her . 
The same eyes followed her to the door and in their light , and on the tranquil face , there was a smile when it was closed . 
She laid her hand upon her breast , murmuring the sacred name that had been read to her and life passed from her face , like light removed . 
Nothing lay there , any longer , but the ruin of the mortal house on which the rain had beaten , and the black hair that had fluttered in the wintry wind . 
Retribution Changes have come again upon the great house in the long dull street , once the scene of Florence's childhood and loneliness . 
Mr Towlinson and company are , at first , incredulous in respect of the shapeless rumours that they hear . 
But , next come the Gazette , and Mr Perch and Mr Perch brings Mrs Perch to talk it over in the kitchen , and to spend a pleasant evening . 
As soon as there is no doubt about it , Mr Towlinson's main anxiety is that the failure should be a good round one not less than a hundred thousand pound . 
Mr Perch don't think himself that a hundred thousand pound will nearly cover it . 
through a funeral , a wedding , and a running away and let it not be said that they couldn't agree among themselves at such a time as the present . 
Mrs Perch is immensely affected by this moving address , and openly remarks that Cook is an angel . 
This announcement is received with acclamation and Mrs Perch , projecting her soul into futurity , says , 'girls , in Cook's ear , in a solemn whisper . 
Misfortune in the family without feasting , in these lower regions , couldn't be . 
Therefore Cook tosses up a hot dish or two for supper , and Mr Towlinson compounds a lobster salad to be devoted to the same hospitable purpose . 
There is a little talk about Mr Dombey , but very little . 
It is chiefly speculation as to how long he has known that this was going to happen . 
Cook says shrewdly , 'Oh a long time , bless you ! Take your oath of that . 
And reference being made to Mr Perch , he confirms her view of the case . 
Somebody wonders what he'll do , and whether he'll go out in any situation . 
Mr Towlinson thinks not , and hints at a refuge in one of them genteel almshouses of the better kind . 
'Ah , where he'll have his little garden , you know , says Cook plaintively , 'and bring up sweet peas in the spring . 
'Exactly so , says Mr Towlinson , 'and be one of the Brethren of something or another . 
'We are all brethren , says Mrs Perch , in a pause of her drink . 
'Except the sisters , says Mr Perch . 
'How are the mighty fallen ! remarks Cook . 
'Pride shall have a fall , and it always was and will be so ! observes the housemaid . 
It is wonderful how good they feel , in making these reflections and what a Christian unanimity they are sensible of , in bearing the common shock with resignation . 
After a few days , strange people begin to call at the house , and to make appointments with one another in the dining room , as if they lived there . 
if he happens to know what the figure of them crimson and gold hangings might have been , when new bought . 
The council downstairs are in full conclave all this time , and , having nothing to do , perform perfect feats of eating . 
At length , they are one day summoned in a body to Mrs Pipchin's room , and thus addressed by the fair Peruvian 'Your master's in difficulties , says Mrs Pipchin , tartly . 
'You know that , I suppose ? Mr Towlinson , as spokesman , admits a general knowledge of the fact . 
'And you're all on the look out for yourselves , I warrant you , says Mrs Pipchin , shaking her head at them . 
'Yes , Mrs Pipchin , it is , replies Cook , advancing . 
'And what then , pray ? 'Why , then you may go as soon as you like , says Mrs Pipchin . 
'The sooner the better and I hope I shall never see your face again . 
This form of proceeding Mrs Pipchin repeats with every member of the household , until all are paid . 
Except , says the inflammable Pipchin , 'that slut of a cook , who'll go immediately . 
Cook sails off with an air of beneficent dignity , highly exasperating to Mrs Pipchin , and is shortly joined below stairs by the rest of the confederation . 
That they have lived in that house a long time , and exerted themselves very much to be sociable together . 
Cook says she feels it's right , and only hopes it's not done as a compliment to her , but from a sense of duty . 
Mrs Perch , presenting the case in a new light , even shows that delicacy towards Mr Dombey , shut up in his own rooms , imperatively demands precipitate retreat . 
It becomes a clear case that they must all go . 
Boxes are packed , cabs fetched , and at dusk that evening there is not one member of the party left . 
The house stands , large and weather proof , in the long dull street but it is a ruin , and the rats fly from it . 
Chaotic combinations of furniture also take place . 
Finally , a rug , with a printed bill upon it , is hung out from the balcony and a similar appendage graces either side of the hall door . 
There is not a secret place in the whole house . 
Fluffy and snuffy strangers stare into the kitchen range as curiously as into the attic clothes press . 
Stout men with napless hats on , look out of the bedroom windows , and cut jokes with friends in the street . 
Quiet , calculating spirits withdraw into the dressing rooms with catalogues , and make marginal notes thereon , with stumps of pencils . 
Two brokers invade the very fire escape , and take a panoramic survey of the neighbourhood from the top of the house . 
The swarm and buzz , and going up and down , endure for days . 
The Capital Modern Household Furniture , c . 
The men in the carpet caps get flustered and vicious with tumbling the Lots about , and still the Lots are going , going , gone still coming on . 
Sometimes there is joking and a general roar . 
This lasts all day and three days following . 
The Capital Modern Household Furniture , c . 
Then the mouldy gigs and chaise carts reappear and with them come spring vans and waggons , and an army of porters with knots . 
All sorts of vehicles of burden are in attendance , from a tilted waggon to a wheelbarrow . 
Poor Paul's little bedstead is carried off in a donkey tandem . 
For nearly a whole week , the Capital Modern Household Furniture , c . 
, is in course of removal . 
At last it is all gone . 
Nothing is left about the house but scattered leaves of catalogues , littered scraps of straw and hay , and a battery of pewter pots behind the hall door . 
The men with the carpet caps gather up their screw drivers and bed winches into bags , shoulder them , and walk off . 
At length he follows the men with the carpet caps . 
None of the invaders remain . 
The house is a ruin , and the rats fly from it . 
Mrs Pipchin's apartments , together with those locked rooms on the ground floor where the window blinds are drawn down close , have been spared the general devastation . 
Mrs Pipchin has been the highest bidder for the easy chair , and sits upon her property when Mrs Chick comes to see her . 
'How is my brother , Mrs Pipchin ? says Mrs Chick . 
'I don't know any more than the deuce , says Mrs Pipchin . 
'He never does me the honour to speak to me . 
He has his meat and drink put in the next room to his own and what he takes , he comes out and takes when there's nobody there . 
It's no use asking me . 
I know no more about him than the man in the south who burnt his mouth by eating cold plum porridge . 
This the acrimonious Pipchin says with a flounce . 
'But good gracious me ! cries Mrs Chick blandly . 
'Hoity toity ! says Mrs Pipchin , rubbing her nose . 
'There's a great fuss , I think , about it . 
It ain't so wonderful a case . 
People have had misfortunes before now , and been obliged to part with their furniture . 
I'm sure I have ! 'My brother , pursues Mrs Chick profoundly , 'is so peculiar so strange a man . 
He is the most peculiar man I ever saw . 
'It's a pity he hadn't a little more to do with mines . 
They'd have tried his temper for him . 
'And what , resumes Mrs Chick , quite regardless of Mrs Pipchin's observations , 'is it to end in ? That's what I want to know . 
What does my brother mean to do ? He must do something . 
It's of no use remaining shut up in his own rooms . 
Business won't come to him . 
No. He must go to it . 
Then why don't he go ? He knows where to go , I suppose , having been a man of business all his life . 
Then why not go there ? Mrs Chick , after forging this powerful chain of reasoning , remains silent for a minute to admire it . 
Of course he could have come to our house . 
Why , good gracious me , suppose the house was to be let ! What would he do then ? He couldn't remain here then . 
If he attempted to do so , there would be an ejectment , an action for Doe , and all sorts of things and then he must go . 
I'm going to take myself off in a jiffy . 
'In a which , Mrs Pipchin , says Mrs Chick . 
'In a jiffy , retorts Mrs Pipchin sharply . 
'Ah , well ! really I can't blame you , Mrs Pipchin , says Mrs Chick , with frankness . 
'It would be pretty much the same to me , if you could , replies the sardonic Pipchin . 
'At any rate I'm going . 
I should be dead in a week . 
I had to cook my own pork chop yesterday , and I'm not used to it . 
My constitution will be giving way next . 
I've written to my niece , and she expects me by this time . 
'Have you spoken to my brother ? inquires Mrs Chick 'Oh , yes , it's very easy to say speak to him , retorts Mrs Pipchin . 
'How is it done ? I called out to him yesterday , that I was no use here , and that he had better let me send for Mrs Richards . 
He grunted something or other that meant yes , and I sent . 
Grunt indeed ! If he had been Mr Pipchin , he'd have had some reason to grunt . 
Mrs Chick , deploring to the last the peculiar character of her brother , noiselessly retires , much occupied with her own sagacity and clearness of head . 
But favours past , Polly , is never to be forgot . 
To them which is in adversity , besides , your face is a cord'l . 
So let's have another kiss on it , my dear . 
You wish no better than to do a right act , I know and my views is , that it's right and dutiful to do this . 
Mrs Pipchin herself is next handed in , and grimly takes her seat . 
Mrs Pipchin almost laughs as the fly van drives off , and she composes her black bombazeen skirts , and settles herself among the cushions of her easy chair . 
The house is such a ruin that the rats have fled , and there is not one left . 
But Polly , though alone in the deserted mansion for there is no companionship in the shut up rooms in which its late master hides his head is not alone long . 
Opening it , she returns across the echoing hall , accompanied by a female figure in a close black bonnet . 
It is Miss Tox , and Miss Tox's eyes are red . 
Is there no one here but you ? 'Ah ! not a soul , says Polly . 
'Have you seen him ? whispers Miss Tox . 
'Bless you , returns Polly , 'no he has not been seen this many a day . 
They tell me he never leaves his room . 
'Is he said to be ill ? inquires Miss Tox . 
'No , Ma'am , not that I know of , returns Polly , 'except in his mind . 
He must be very bad there , poor gentleman ! Miss Tox's sympathy is such that she can scarcely speak . 
She is no chicken , but she has not grown tough with age and celibacy . 
Her heart is very tender , her compassion very genuine , her homage very real . 
There are bells there , but they never ring and though she can sometimes hear a footfall going to and fro , it never comes out . 
Miss Tox returns early in the day . 
It then begins to be Miss Tox's occupation to prepare little dainties or what are such to her to be carried into these rooms next morning . 
The Major knows it but no one is the wiser for that , though the Major is much the merrier . 
The Major , in a fit of curiosity , has charged the Native to watch the house sometimes , and find out what becomes of Dombey . 
The Native has reported Miss Tox's fidelity , and the Major has nearly choked himself dead with laughter . 
How does he pass the hours , alone ? 'Let him remember it in that room , years to come ! He did remember it . 
It was heavy on his mind now heavier than all the rest . 
Let him remember it in that room , years to come ! He did remember it . 
In the miserable night he thought of it in the dreary day , the wretched dawn , the ghostly , memory haunted twilight . 
In agony , in sorrow , in remorse , in despair ! 'Papa ! Papa ! Speak to me , dear Papa ! He heard the words again , and saw the face . 
He saw it fall upon the trembling hands , and heard the one prolonged low cry go upward . 
He was fallen , never to be raised up any more . 
Oh ! He did remember it ! The rain that fell upon the roof , the wind that mourned outside the door that night , had had foreknowledge in their melancholy sound . 
He knew , now , what he had done . 
He knew , now , that he had called down that upon his head , which bowed it lower than the heaviest stroke of fortune . 
He thought of her , as she had been that night when he and his bride came home . 
He thought of her as she had been , in all the home events of the abandoned house . 
He thought , now , that of all around him , she alone had never changed . 
Yes , to the latest and the last . 
She had never changed to him nor had he ever changed to her and she was lost . 
As it fell away , he shook it off . 
Whether he imagined its face as expressing pity for him , or indifference to him , he shunned it alike . 
It was in the same degree to be avoided , in either aspect . 
He had no idea of any one companion in his misery , but the one he had driven away . 
What he would have said to her , or what consolation submitted to receive from her , he never pictured to himself . 
But he always knew she would have been true to him , if he had suffered her . 
Day after day uttered this speech night after night showed him this knowledge . 
, in the receipt of her young husband's letter , and the certainty that she was gone . 
However turbulent his thoughts , or harsh his anger had been , at first , concerning her marriage , or her husband , that was all past now . 
He chiefly thought of what might have been , and what was not . 
What was , was all summed up in this that she was lost , and he bowed down with sorrow and remorse . 
He came out of his solitude when it was the dead of night , and with a candle in his hand went softly up the stairs . 
He almost saw it , going on before . 
He stopped , looking up towards the skylight and a figure , childish itself , but carrying a child , and singing as it went , seemed to be there again . 
Anon , it was the same figure , alone , stopping for an instant , with suspended breath the bright hair clustering loosely round its tearful face and looking back at him . 
He wandered through the rooms lately so luxurious now so bare and dismal and so changed , apparently , even in their shape and size . 
The press of footsteps was as thick here and the same consideration of the suffering he had had , perplexed and terrified him . 
He did not so much as know in which of these rooms she had lived , when she was alone . 
He was glad to leave them , and go wandering higher up . 
Here , with stooping shoulders , and his chin dropped on his breast , he had come . 
When the day broke he was shut up in his rooms again . 
He had meant to go away to day , but clung to this tie in the house as the last and only thing left to him . 
He would go to morrow . 
He would go to morrow . 
Every night , within the knowledge of no human creature , he came forth , and wandered through the despoiled house like a ghost . 
It was one child no more . 
He reunited them in his thoughts , and they were never asunder . 
It never is , to obstinate and sullen natures for they struggle hard to be such . 
At last he began to think he need not go at all . 
The world was very busy and restless about him . 
He became aware of that again . 
It was whispering and babbling . 
This , and the intricacy and complication of the footsteps , harassed him to death . 
Objects began to take a bleared and russet colour in his eyes . 
Dombey and Son was no more his children no more . 
This must be thought of , well , to morrow . 
Now it lifted up its head , examining the lines and hollows in its face now hung it down again , and brooded afresh . 
Now it rose and walked about now passed into the next room , and came back with something from the dressing table in its breast . 
Now , it was looking at the bottom of the door , and thinking . 
Hush ! what ? It was thinking that if blood were to trickle that way , and to leak out into the hall , it must be a long time going so far . 
When it had thought of this a long while , it got up again , and walked to and fro with its hand in its breast . 
He glanced at it occasionally , very curious to watch its motions , and he marked how wicked and murderous that hand looked . 
It sat down , with its eyes upon the empty fireplace , and as it lost itself in thought there shone into the room a gleam of light a ray of sun . 
It was quite unmindful , and sat thinking . 
Suddenly it rose , with a terrible face , and that guilty hand grasping what was in its breast . 
His daughter ! Look at her ! Look here ! Down upon the ground , clinging to him , calling to him , folding her hands , praying to him . 
'Papa ! Dearest Papa ! Pardon me , forgive me ! I have come back to ask forgiveness on my knees . 
I never can be happy more , without it ! Unchanged still . 
Of all the world , unchanged . 
Raising the same face to his , as on that miserable night . 
Asking his forgiveness ! 'Dear Papa , oh don't look strangely on me ! I never meant to leave you . 
I never thought of it , before or afterwards . 
I was frightened when I went away , and could not think . 
Papa , dear , I am changed . 
I know my duty better now . 
Papa , don't cast me off , or I shall die ! He tottered to his chair . 
I have a child who will soon call Walter by the name by which I call you . 
When it was born , and when I knew how much I loved it , I knew what I had done in leaving you . 
Forgive me , dear Papa ! oh say God bless me , and my little child ! He would have said it , if he could . 
He would have raised his hands and besought her for pardon , but she caught them in her own , and put them down , hurriedly . 
to spare me , that I might come home . 
The moment I could land , I came back to you . 
Never let us be parted any more , Papa . 
'You will come home with me , Papa , and see my baby . 
I think I hope he's like Her tears stopped her . 
'Dear Papa , for the sake of my child , for the sake of the name we have given him , for my sake , pardon Walter . 
He is so kind and tender to me . 
I am so happy with him . 
It was not his fault that we were married . 
I loved him so much . 
She clung closer to him , more endearing and more earnest . 
'He is the darling of my heart , Papa I would die for him . 
He will love and honour you as I will . 
Then , Miss Tox and Polly came out of their concealment , and exulted tearfully . 
And then they took a last cup of tea in the lonely house . 
'And a good one ! exclaimed Polly . 
'You are right , said Miss Tox 'and it's a credit to you , Polly , that you were always her friend when she was a little child . 
You were her friend long before I was , Polly , said Miss Tox 'and you're a good creature . 
Rising , he disclosed to view the form and features of the Grinder . 
'Robin , said Miss Tox , 'I have just observed to your mother , as you may have heard , that she is a good creature . 
'And so she is , Miss , quoth the Grinder , with some feeling . 
'Very well , Robin , said Miss Tox , 'I am glad to hear you say so . 
'Upon my soul I will , Miss , returned the Grinder . 
'If you please , Miss , as a chap's 'Thankee , Robin , no , returned Miss Tox , 'I should prefer individual . 
'As a indiwiddle's , said the Grinder . 
'Much better , remarked Miss Tox , complacently 'infinitely more expressive ! can be , pursued Rob . 
'If I hadn't been and got made a Grinder on , Miss and Mother , which was a most unfortunate circumstance for a young co indiwiddle . 
'Very good indeed , observed Miss Tox , approvingly . 
and if I hadn't been led away by birds , and then fallen into a bad service , said the Grinder , 'I hope I might have done better . 
But it's never too late for a 'Indi suggested Miss Tox . 
'I am very glad indeed to hear it , observed Miss Tox . 
to hide their diminished heads . 
Mr Feeder's most romantic visions were fulfilled . 
The Doctor had determined to paint the house outside , and put it in thorough repair and to give up the business , and to give up Cornelia . 
'Mrs Blimber , said Mr Toots , 'allow me to present my wife . 
Mrs Blimber was delighted to receive her . 
Mrs Blimber was a little condescending , but extremely kind . 
'And as you've known me for a long time , you know , said Mr Toots , 'let me assure you that she is one of the most remarkable women that ever lived . 
'My dear ! remonstrated Mrs Toots . 
'Upon my word and honour she is , said Mr Toots . 
'I I assure you , Mrs Blimber , she's a most extraordinary woman . 
Mrs Toots laughed merrily , and Mrs Blimber led her to Cornelia . 
Mr Feeder , B. A. , being in great spirits , made a spar at Mr Toots , and tapped him skilfully with the back of his hand on the breastbone . 
'Well , old Buck ! said Mr Feeder with a laugh . 
'Well ! Here we are ! Taken in and done for . 
Eh ? 'Feeder , returned Mr Toots . 
If you're as as as perfectly blissful in a matrimonial life , as I am myself , you'll have nothing to desire . 
'I don't forget my old friends , you see , said Mr Feeder . 
'I ask em to my wedding , Toots . 
'Feeder , replied Mr Toots gravely , 'the fact is , that there were several circumstances which prevented me from communicating with you until after my marriage had been solemnised . 
I hope , Feeder , that in writing a statement of what had occurred before Mrs Toots and myself went abroad upon our foreign tour , I fully discharged the offices of friendship . 
'Toots , my boy , said Mr Feeder , shaking his hands , 'I was joking . 
'And now , Feeder , said Mr Toots , 'I should be glad to know what you think of my union . 
'Capital ! returned Mr Feeder . 
'You think it's capital , do you , Feeder ? 'said Mr Toots solemnly . 
'Then how capital must it be to Me ! For you can never know what an extraordinary woman that is . 
Mr Feeder was willing to take it for granted . 
But Mr Toots shook his head , and wouldn't hear of that being possible . 
'You see , said Mr Toots , 'what I wanted in a wife was in short , was sense . 
Money , Feeder , I had . 
Sense I I had not , particularly . 
Mr Feeder murmured , 'Oh , yes , you had , Toots ! But Mr Toots said 'No , Feeder , I had not . 
Why should I disguise it ? I had not . 
I knew that sense was There , said Mr Toots , stretching out his hand towards his wife , 'in perfect heaps . 
I had no relation to object or be offended , on the score of station for I had no relation . 
I have never had anybody belonging to me but my guardian , and him , Feeder , I have always considered as a Pirate and a Corsair . 
Therefore , you know it was not likely , said Mr Toots , 'that I should take his opinion . 
'No , said Mr Feeder . 
'Accordingly , resumed Mr Toots , 'I acted on my own . 
Bright was the day on which I did so ! Feeder ! Nobody but myself can tell what the capacity of that woman's mind is . 
'But , my love , said Mr Toots , 'pray do not exert yourself . 
You really must be careful . 
Do not , my dear Susan , exert yourself . 
She's so easily excited , said Mr Toots , apart to Mrs Blimber , 'and then she forgets the medical man altogether . 
Doctor Blimber escorted Mrs Toots . 
Mr Toots escorted the fair bride , around whose lambent spectacles two gauzy little bridesmaids fluttered like moths . 
Mr Feeder's brother , Mr Alfred Feeder , M. A. , had already gone on , in advance , to assume his official functions . 
The ceremony was performed in an admirable manner . 
The gauzy little bridesmaids appeared to suffer most . 
Mr Feeder made in reply , a comic speech chequered with sentiment . 
Mr Alfred Feeder , M. A , was afterwards very happy on Doctor and Mrs Blimber Mr Feeder , B. A. , scarcely less so , on the gauzy little bridesmaids . 
, and there found a letter , which it took Mr Toots such an enormous time to read , that Mrs Toots was frightened . 
'My dear Susan , said Mr Toots , 'fright is worse than exertion . 
Pray be calm ! 'Who is it from ? asked Mrs Toots . 
'Why , my love , said Mr Toots , 'it's from Captain Gills . 
'You're perfectly right , my love , they have come home . 
Miss Dombey has seen her father , and they are reconciled ! 'Reconciled ! cried Mrs Toots , clapping her hands . 
'My dear , said Mr Toots 'pray do not exert yourself . 
Mrs Toots began to cry quite bitterly . 
into the flowery train of wedlock not as a principal , but as an accessory . 
Behind them appeared the young MacStingers , in a body , exulting . 
Behind them , M two ladies of a terrible and steadfast aspect , leading between them a short gentleman in a tall hat , who likewise exulted . 
In the wake , appeared Bunsby's boy , bearing umbrellas . 
The first impulse of the Captain was to run away . 
This also appeared to be the first impulse of Bunsby , hopeless as its execution must have proved . 
But a cry of recognition proceeding from the party , and Alexander MacStinger running up to the Captain with open arms , the Captain struck . 
'Well , Cap'en Cuttle ! said Mrs MacStinger . 
'This is indeed a meeting ! I bear no malice now , Cap'en Cuttle you needn't fear that I'm a going to cast any reflections . 
I hope to go to the altar in another spirit . 
The Captain putting out his hand , Bunsby put out his but , in answer to the Captain's greeting , spake no word . 
Here is a lady here , said Mrs MacStinger , turning round to the more intrepid of the two , 'my bridesmaid , that will be glad of your protection , Cap'en Cuttle . 
The lady immediately seized him , and , observing that there was no time to lose , gave the word , in a strong voice , to advance . 
'Why do you do it , then , my lad ? inquired the Captain , not unnaturally . 
Bunsby , still looking , and always looking with an immovable countenance , at the opposite side of the world , made no reply . 
'Why not sheer off ? said the Captain . 
'Eh ? whispered Bunsby , with a momentary gleam of hope . 
'Sheer off , said the Captain . 
'Where's the good ? retorted the forlorn sage . 
'Try ! replied the Captain . 
'Cheer up ! Come ! Now's your time . 
Sheer off , Jack Bunsby ! Jack Bunsby , however , instead of profiting by the advice , said in a doleful whisper 'It all began in that there chest o' yourn . 
Why did I ever conwoy her into port that night ? 'My lad , faltered the Captain , 'I thought as you had come over her not as she had come over you . 
A man as has got such opinions as you have ! Mr Bunsby merely uttered a suppressed groan . 
'Come ! said the Captain , nudging him with his elbow , 'now's your time ! Sheer off ! I'll cover your retreat . 
Bunsby ! It's for liberty . 
Will you once ? Bunsby was immovable . 
'Bunsby ! whispered the Captain , 'will you twice ? Bunsby wouldn't twice . 
'Bunsby ! urged the Captain , 'it's for liberty will you three times ? Now or never ! Bunsby didn't then , and didn't ever for Mrs MacStinger immediately afterwards married him . 
The Captain saw in this a succession of man traps stretching out infinitely a series of ages of oppression and coercion , through which the seafaring line was doomed . 
Another year or two , the Captain thought , and to lodge where that child was , would be destruction . 
The ceremony was concluded by a general spring of the young family on Mr Bunsby , whom they hailed by the endearing name of father , and from whom they solicited half pence . 
These gushes of affection over , the procession was about to issue forth again , when it was delayed for some little time by an unexpected transport on the part of Alexander MacStinger . 
In the anguish of this conviction , he screamed with astonishing force , and turned black in the face . 
However touching these marks of a tender disposition were to his mother , it was not in the character of that remarkable woman to permit her recognition of them to degenerate into weakness . 
So he got a lift when he was tired , and made out the journey gaily . 
Mr Toots and his wife had , in fact , just arrived there having been at the Midshipman's to seek him , and having there obtained the address . 
'And is your Pa very ill , my darling dear Miss Floy ? asked Susan . 
'He is very , very ill , said Florence . 
'But , Susan , dear , you must not speak to me as you used to speak . 
And what's this ? said Florence , touching her clothes , in amazement . 
'Your old dress , dear ? Your old cap , curls , and all ? Susan burst into tears , and showered kisses on the little hand that had touched her so wonderingly . 
'My dear Miss Dombey , said Mr Toots , stepping forward , 'I'll explain . 
She's the most extraordinary woman . 
I admire the dress myself , said Mr Toots , 'of all things . 
I adore her in it ! My dear Miss Dombey , she'll be your maid again , your nurse , all that she ever was , and more . 
There's no change in her . 
Relenting Florence had need of help . 
Her father's need of it was sore , and made the aid of her old friend invaluable . 
Death stood at his pillow . 
She was always with him . 
He knew her , generally though , in the wandering of his brain , he often confused the circumstances under which he spoke to her . 
Sometimes he would ask her for herself . 
'Where is Florence ? 'I am here , Papa , I am here . 
'I don't know her ! he would cry . 
He rambled through the scenes of his old pursuits through many where Florence lost him as she listened sometimes for hours . 
He would go on with a musing repetition of the title of his old firm twenty thousand times , and at every one of them , would turn his head upon his pillow . 
He would count his children one two stop , and go back , and begin again in the same way . 
But this was when his mind was in its most distracted state . 
In all the other phases of its illness , and in those to which it was most constant , it always turned on Florence . 
Then , confounding that time with the later days of the many footsteps , he would be amazed at their number , and begin to count them as he followed her . 
Still , among the many footsteps and the bloody footsteps here and there , was the step of Florence . 
Still she was going on before . 
Still the restless mind went , following and counting , ever farther , ever higher , as to the summit of a mighty tower that it took years to climb . 
One day he inquired if that were not Susan who had spoken a long while ago . 
Florence said 'Yes , dear Papa and asked him would he like to see her ? He said 'very much . 
And Susan , with no little trepidation , showed herself at his bedside . 
It seemed a great relief to him . 
He begged her not to go to understand that he forgave her what she had said and that she was to stay . 
Florence and he were very different now , he said , and very happy . 
Let her look at this ! He meant his drawing the gentle head down to his pillow , and laying it beside him . 
He remained like this for days and weeks . 
To watch the shadows of the clouds and leaves , and seem to feel a sympathy with shadows . 
It was natural that he should . 
To him , life and the world were nothing else . 
He began to show now that he thought of Florence's fatigue and often taxed his weakness to whisper to her , 'Go and walk , my dearest , in the sweet air . 
He listening , with his face turned away . 
Florence was sitting on a certain time by his window , with her work basket between her and her old attendant , who was still her faithful companion . 
He had fallen into a doze . 
It was a beautiful evening , with two hours of light to come yet and the tranquillity and quiet made Florence very thoughtful . 
'My dear , said Walter , 'there is someone downstairs who wishes to speak to you . 
She fancied Walter looked grave , and asked him if anything had happened . 
'No , no , my love ! said Walter . 
'I have seen the gentleman myself , and spoken with him . 
Florence then remembered Cousin Feenix , whom she had not at first recognised in the shade of the leaves . 
Cousin Feenix took her hand , and congratulated her upon her marriage . 
I trust my friend Dombey will not allow his mind to be too much preyed upon , by any mere loss of fortune . 
I cannot say that I have ever experienced any very great loss of fortune myself never having had , in point of fact , any great amount of fortune to lose . 
But as much as I could lose , I have lost and I don't find that I particularly care about it . 
I know my friend Dombey to be a devilish honourable man and it's calculated to console my friend Dombey very much , to know , that this is the universal sentiment . 
Even Tommy Screwzer , a man of an extremely bilious habit , with whom my friend Gay is probably acquainted cannot say a syllable in disputation of the fact . 
Florence felt , more than ever , that there was something to come and looked earnestly for it . 
So earnestly , that Cousin Feenix answered , as if she had spoken . 
Upon which , a devilish large number of fellows immediately cheered , and put him in spirits . 
Though the fact is , that these fellows , being under orders to cheer most excessively whenever Mr Pitt's name was mentioned , became so proficient that it always woke 'em . 
'There is nothing the matter , upon my honour , said Cousin Feenix 'and I am deeply distressed at being the means of causing you a moment's uneasiness . 
I beg to assure you that there is nothing the matter . 
Walter thus appealed to , and appealed to no less in the look that Florence turned towards him , said 'My dearest , it is no more than this . 
That you will ride to London with this gentleman , whom you know . 
'And my friend Gay , also I beg your pardon ! interrupted Cousin Feenix . 
And with me and make a visit somewhere . 
'To whom ? asked Florence , looking from one to the other . 
'If I might entreat , said Cousin Feenix , 'that you would not press for an answer to that question , I would venture to take the liberty of making the request . 
'Do you know , Walter ? 'Yes . 
'And think it right ? 'Yes . 
Only because I am sure that you would too . 
Though there may be reasons I very well understand , which make it better that nothing more should be said beforehand . 
'If Papa is still asleep , or can spare me if he is awake , I will go immediately , said Florence . 
And rising quietly , and glancing at them with a look that was a little alarmed but perfectly confiding , left the room . 
She did not wonder at the look of pride and love with which her husband broke off as she entered for she never saw him , but that rested on her . 
'I will leave , said Cousin Feenix , 'a card for my friend Dombey , sincerely trusting that he will pick up health and strength with every returning hour . 
Of all this , Cousin Feenix delivered himself with an obviously nervous and discomposed air . 
Walter entered after him , and they drove away . 
Their ride was six or eight miles long . 
When they drove through certain dull and stately streets , lying westward in London , it was growing dusk . 
Florence had , by this time , put her hand in Walter's and was looking very earnestly , and with increasing agitation , into every new street into which they turned . 
Cousin Feenix had by this time alighted , and was offering his hand . 
'Are you not coming , Walter ? 'No , I will remain here . 
Don't tremble there is nothing to fear , dearest Florence . 
'I know that , Walter , with you so near . 
I am sure of that , but The door was softly opened , without any knock , and Cousin Feenix led her out of the summer evening air into the close dull house . 
More sombre and brown than ever , it seemed to have been shut up from the wedding day , and to have hoarded darkness and sadness ever since . 
Florence ascended the dusky staircase , trembling and stopped , with her conductor , at the drawing room door . 
He opened it , without speaking , and signed an entreaty to her to advance into the inner room , while he remained there . 
Florence , after hesitating an instant , complied . 
Florence advancing , doubtfully , all at once stood still , as if she had lost the power of motion . 
The lady turned her head . 
'Great Heaven ! she said , 'what is this ? 'No , no ! cried Florence , shrinking back as she rose up and putting out her hands to keep her off . 
'Mama ! They stood looking at each other . 
Passion and pride had worn it , but it was the face of Edith , and beautiful and stately yet . 
It was the face of Florence , and through all the terrified avoidance it expressed , there was pity in it , sorrow , a grateful tender memory . 
On each face , wonder and fear were painted vividly each so still and silent , looking at the other over the black gulf of the irrevocable past . 
Florence was the first to change . 
Her eyes were fixed upon her face . 
'I dare not think of that , said Florence , 'I am come from Papa's sick bed . 
We are never asunder now we never shall be' any more . 
If you would have me ask his pardon , I will do it , Mama . 
I am almost sure he will grant it now , if I ask him . 
May Heaven grant it to you , too , and comfort you ! She answered not a word . 
'Walter I am married to him , and we have a son , said Florence , timidly 'is at the door , and has brought me here . 
I will tell him that you are repentant that you are changed , said Florence , looking mournfully upon her 'and he will speak to Papa with me , I know . 
Will that ever be forgiven , Florence ? 'Will it ever be , Mama ? It is ! Freely , freely , both by Walter and by me . 
If that is any consolation to you , there is nothing that you may believe more certainly . 
You do not you do not , faltered Florence , 'speak of Papa but I am sure you wish that I should ask him for his forgiveness . 
I am sure you do . 
She answered not a word . 
'I will ! said Florence . 
I only wish to do my duty to Papa . 
I am very dear to him , and he is very dear to me . 
But I never can forget that you were very good to me . 
, when I remember what you used to be ! Edith , as if she fell beneath her touch , sunk down on her knees , and caught her round the neck . 
Guilty of what must separate me , through the whole remainder of my life , from purity and innocence from you , of all the earth . 
Guilty of a blind and passionate resentment , of which I do not , cannot , will not , even now , repent but not guilty with that dead man . 
Before God ! Upon her knees upon the ground , she held up both her hands , and swore it . 
Had she been oftener thus in older days , she had been happier now . 
'There is nothing else in all the world , she said , 'that would have wrung denial from me . 
No love , no hatred , no hope , no threat . 
I said that I would die , and make no sign . 
I could have done so , and I would , if we had never met , Florence . 
But as I mentioned to my friend Dombey , I could not admit the criminality of my lovely and accomplished relative until it was perfectly established . 
Edith , who had taken Florence to a sofa , made a gesture with her hand as if she would have begged him to say no more . 
She will remember that , from the first , she and I never alluded to the subject of her elopement . 
My impression , certainly , has always been , that there was a mystery in the affair which she could explain if so inclined . 
Cousin Feenix's legs consented to take him away after this and leaving them alone together , he shut the door . 
Edith remained silent for some minutes , with Florence sitting close beside her . 
Then she took from her bosom a sealed paper . 
I have deliberated , ever since , when and how to destroy it . 
The truth is written in it . 
'Is it for Papa ? asked Florence . 
'It is for whom you will , she answered . 
'It is given to you , and is obtained by you . 
He never could have had it otherwise . 
Again they sat silent , in the deepening darkness . 
'Mama , said Florence , 'he has lost his fortune he has been at the point of death he may not recover , even now . 
'Tell him I am sorry that we ever met . 
'No more ? said Florence after a pause . 
'Tell him , if he asks , that I do not repent of what I have done not yet for if it were to do again to morrow , I should do it . 
But if he is a changed man She stopped . 
There was something in the silent touch of Florence's hand that stopped her . 
'But that being a changed man , he knows , now , it would never be . 
Tell him I wish it never had been . 
He will not grieve for them himself , one day , if they have brought that lesson , Florence . 
'You wish well to him , and would have him happy . 
I am sure you would ! said Florence . 
Tell him that if , in his own present , he can find a reason to think less bitterly of me , I asked him to do so . 
Her sternness seemed to yield , and there were tears in her dark eyes . 
'I trust myself to that , she said , 'for his better thoughts of me , and mine of him . 
When he loves his Florence most , he will hate me least . 
When he is most proud and happy in her and her children , he will be most repentant of his own part in the dark vision of our married life . 
I will try , then , to forgive him his share of blame . 
Let him try to forgive me mine ! 'Oh Mama ! said Florence . 
'This kiss for your child ! These kisses for a blessing on your head ! My own dear Florence , my sweet girl , farewell ! 'To meet again ! cried Florence . 
'Never again ! Never again ! When you leave me in this dark room , think that you have left me in the grave . 
Cousin Feenix met her at the door , and took her down to Walter in the dingy dining room , upon whose shoulder she laid her head weeping . 
But I hope and trust I have acted for the best , and that my honourable friend Dombey will find his mind relieved by the disclosures which have taken place . 
It is the last bottle of the old Madiera . 
'You are quite right , Mr Gills , says Mr Dombey . 
'This is a very rare and most delicious wine . 
The Captain , who is of the party , beams with joy . 
There is a very halo of delight round his glowing forehead . 
'We always promised ourselves , Sir , observes Mr Gills , Ned and myself , I mean Mr Dombey nods at the Captain , who shines more and more with speechless gratification . 
that we would drink this , one day or other , to Walter safe at home though such a home we never thought of . 
If you don't object to our old whim , Sir , let us devote this first glass to Walter and his wife . 
'To Walter and his wife ! says Mr Dombey . 
'Florence , my child' and turns to kiss her . 
'To Walter and his wife ! says Mr Toots . 
'To Wal'r and his wife ! exclaims the Captain . 
'Hooroar ! and the Captain exhibiting a strong desire to clink his glass against some other glass , Mr Dombey , with a ready hand , holds out his . 
The others follow and there is a blithe and merry ringing , as of a little peal of marriage bells . 
Other buried wine grows older , as the old Madeira did in its time and dust and cobwebs thicken on the bottles . 
Ambitious projects trouble him no more . 
His only pride is in his daughter and her husband . 
He has a silent , thoughtful , quiet manner , and is always with his daughter . 
Miss Tox is not infrequently of the family party , and is quite devoted to it , and a great favourite . 
Her admiration of her once stately patron is , and has been ever since the morning of her shock in Princess's Place , platonic , but not weakened in the least . 
That hazel eyed bachelor , a bachelor no more , is married now , and to the sister of the grey haired Junior . 
He visits his old chief sometimes , but seldom . 
Walter sees them sometimes Florence too and the pleasant house resounds with profound duets arranged for the Piano Forte and Violoncello , and with the labours of Harmonious Blacksmiths . 
Not another stroke of business does the Midshipman achieve beyond his usual easy trade . 
The whisper is that Mr Gills's money has begun to turn itself , and that it is turning itself over and over pretty briskly . 
As to his partner , Captain Cuttle , there is a fiction of a business in the Captain's mind which is better than any reality . 
His delight in his own name over the door , is inexhaustible . 
'Captain Gills , says Mr Toots , 'and Mr Sols , I am happy to inform you that Mrs Toots has had an increase to her family . 
'And it does her credit ! cries the Captain . 
'I give you joy , Mr Toots ! says old Sol . 
'Thank'ee , chuckles Mr Toots , 'I'm very much obliged to you . 
I knew that you'd be glad to hear , and so I came down myself . 
We're positively getting on , you know . 
There's Florence , and Susan , and now here's another little stranger . 
'A female stranger ? inquires the Captain . 
'Yes , Captain Gills , says Mr Toots , 'and I'm glad of it . 
'Here's to her , and may she have ever so many more ! 'Thank'ee , Captain Gills , says the delighted Mr Toots . 
If you'll allow me , as my so doing cannot be unpleasant to anybody , under the circumstances , I think I'll take a pipe . 
Mr Toots begins to smoke , accordingly , and in the openness of his heart is very loquacious . 
'Because you know , says Mr Toots , 'I have never changed my sentiments towards Miss Dombey . 
They are the same as ever . 
She is the same bright vision to me , at present , that she was before I made Walters's acquaintance . 
When Mrs Toots and myself first began to talk of in short , of the tender passion , you know , Captain Gills . 
The Captain approves of this figure greatly and murmurs that no flower as blows , is like the rose . 
'But Lord bless me , pursues Mr Toots , 'she was as entirely conscious of the state of my feelings as I was myself . 
There was nothing I could tell her . 
She was the only person who could have stood between me and the silent Tomb , and she did it , in a manner to command my everlasting admiration . 
She knows that there's nobody in the world I look up to , as I do to Miss Dombey . 
Knows that there's nothing on earth I wouldn't do for Miss Dombey . 
She knows that I consider Miss Dombey the most beautiful , the most amiable , the most angelic of her sex . 
What is her observation upon that ? The perfection of sense . 
My dear , you're right . 
'And so do I ! says the Captain . 
'So do I , says Sol Gills . 
Here , observes my wife , he is , released from sea going , after that first long voyage with his young bride as you know he was , Mr Sols . 
'Quite true , says the old Instrument maker , rubbing his hands . 
'Why yes , yes some of our lost ships , freighted with gold , have come home , truly , returns old Sol , laughing . 
'Small craft , Mr Toots , but serviceable to my boy ! 'Exactly so , says Mr Toots . 
'You'll never find my wife wrong . 
Here he is , says that most remarkable woman , so situated , and what follows ? What follows ? observed Mrs Toots . 
Now pray remark , Captain Gills , and Mr Sols , the depth of my wife's penetration . 
Was it them words , Sol Gills ? 'It certainly was , Ned , replied the old Instrument maker . 
'Then I tell you what , says the Captain , leaning back in his chair , and composing his chest for a prodigious roar . 
Autumn days are shining , and on the sea beach there are often a young lady , and a white haired gentleman . 
With them , or near them , are two children boy and girl . 
And an old dog is generally in their company . 
Then the child says 'What , grandpa ! Am I so like my poor little Uncle again ? 'Yes , Paul . 
But he was weak , and you are very strong . 
'Oh yes , I am very strong . 
'And he lay on a little bed beside the sea , and you can run about . 
But no one , except Florence , knows the measure of the white haired gentleman's affection for the girl . 
That story never goes about . 
The child herself almost wonders at a certain secrecy he keeps in it . 
He hoards her in his heart . 
He cannot bear to see a cloud upon her face . 
He cannot bear to see her sit apart . 
He fancies that she feels a slight , when there is none . 
He steals away to look at her , in her sleep . 
It pleases him to have her come , and wake him in the morning . 
He is fondest of her and most loving to her , when there is no creature by . 
This is not unselfish in me . 
I may claim to have felt it , at least as much as anybody else and I would fain be remembered kindly for my part in the experience . 
DEVONSHIRE TERRACE , Twenty Fourth March , . 
of correctly observing the characters of men , is a rare one . 
of correctly observing so much as the faces of men , is a general one by any means . 
Mr Dombey undergoes no violent change , either in this book , or in real life . 
A sense of his injustice is within him , all along . 
The more he represses it , the more unjust he necessarily is . 
I began this book by the Lake of Geneva , and went on with it for some months in France , before pursuing it in England . 
