So emphatic , in fact , was the summons that the door trembled , and Tom started to his feet in some alarm . 
Hello there ! he cried . 
Don't break the door , Koku ! and then he laughed . 
No one but my giant would knock like that , he said to himself . 
He never does seem able to do things gently . 
But I wonder why he is knocking . 
I told him to get the engine out of the airship , and Eradicate said he'd be around to answer the telephone and bell . 
I wonder if anything has happened ? Tom shoved back his chair , pushed aside the mass of papers over which he had been puzzling , and strode to the door . 
Flinging it open he confronted a veritable giant of a man , nearly eight feet tall , and big in proportion . 
The giant , Koku , for that was his name , smiled in a good natured way , reminding one of an overgrown boy . 
Master hear my knock ? the giant asked cheerfully . 
Hear you , Koku ? Say , I couldn't hear anything else ! exclaimed Tom . 
Did you think you had to arouse the whole neighborhood just to let me know you were at the door ? Jove ! I thought you'd have it off the hinges . 
If me break , me fix , said Koku , who , from his appearance and from his imperfect command of English , was evidently a foreigner . 
Yes , I know you can fix lots of things , Koku , Tom went on , kindly enough . 
But you musn't forget what enormous strength you have . 
That's the reason I sent you to take the engine out of the airship . 
You can lift it without using the chain hoist , and I can't get the chain hoist fast unless I remove all the superstructure . 
I don't want to do that . 
Did you get the engine out ? Not quite . 
Then why are you here ? Has anything gone wrong ? No , everything all right , Master . 
But man come to machine shop and say he must have talk with you . 
I no let him come past the gate , but I say I come and call you . 
Don't let any strangers past the gate . 
But why didn't Eradicate come and call me . 
He isn't doing anything , is he ? Unless , indeed , he has gone to feed his mule , Boomerang . 
Eradicate , he come to call you , but that black man no good ! and Koku chuckled so heartily that he shook the floor of the office . 
What's the matter with Eradicate ? asked Tom , somewhat anxiously . 
No trouble , Master , said Koku . 
Eradicate he start to come and tell you strange man want to have talk , but Eradicate he no come fast enough . 
So I pick him up , and I set him down by gate to stand on guard , and I come to tell you . 
Koku come quick ! Oh , I knew it must be something like that ! exclaimed Tom in some vexation . 
Now I'll have Eradicate complaining to me that you mauled him . 
Picked him up and set him down again Sure . 
One hand ! boasted the giant . 
Eradicate him not be heavy . 
More as a sack of flour now . 
No , poor Eradicate is getting pretty old and thin , commented Tom . 
He can't move very quickly . 
But you should have let him come , Koku . 
It makes him feel badly when he thinks he can't be of service to me any more . 
Man say he in hurry . 
The giant spoke softly , as though he felt the gentle rebuke Tom administered . 
Koku run quick tell you bang on door . 
Yes , you banged all right , Koku . 
Well , it can't be helped , I reckon . 
Where is this strange man ? Who is he ? Did you ever see him before ? Me no can tell , Master . 
But him now be at the outer gate . 
I'll go and see who it is . 
I don't want any strangers poking around here , especially With the plans of my new gyroscope lying in plain view . 
Before he left the laboratory Tom swept into a desk drawer the mass of papers and blue prints , and locked the receptacle . 
No use taking any chances , he remarked . 
I've had too much trouble with people trying to get inside information about dad's and my patents . 
Now , Koku , I'll go and see this man . 
Only those who could give a good account of themselves , workmen in the plant , or those known to the sentinel were admitted . 
It happened that the colored man , Eradicate , was on guard at the gates this day when the stranger asked to see Tom . 
Koku , working on the airship engine not far away , saw the stranger . 
Hearing the man say he was in a hurry and noting the slow progress of the aged Eradicate , who was troubled with rheumatism , the giant took matters into his own hands . 
Tom Swift entered the gate house and saw , seated in a chair , a man who was impatiently tapping the floor with his thick soled shoe . 
Looks like a detective or a policeman in disguise , thought Tom , for , almost invariably , members of this profession wear very thick soled shoes . 
Opposite the stranger sat Eradicate , a much injured look on his honest , black face . 
Oh , Massa Tom ! exclaimed Eradicate , as soon as the young inventor entered . 
Eradicate , he no can come quick . 
Ef I gits holt on yo' ef I does , yo' great , big , overgrown lummox , Ah'll Ah'll began the colored man , stammeringly . 
That will do now ! interrupted Tom . 
Koku , get back to that engine and lift out the motor . 
Eradicate , didn't father tell you to whitewash the chicken coops to day ? Dat's what he done , Massa Tom . 
Well , go and see about that . 
I'll stay here for a while , and when I leave I'll call one of you , or some one else , to be on guard . 
Well , I'm Tom Swift , and the young owner of the name smiled . 
What sort of trouble ? Tom inquired . 
Contracting trouble tunnel blasting , to be exact . 
But if you have a few minutes to spare perhaps you will listen to my story . 
You will then be better able to understand my difficulty . 
Tom Swift considered a moment . 
He was used to having appeals for help made to him , and usually they were of a begging nature . 
He was often asked for money to help some struggling inventor complete his machine . 
In many cases the machines would have been of absolutely no use if perfected . 
In other cases the inventions were of the utterly hopeless class , incapable of perfection , like some perpetual motion apparatus . 
In these cases Tom turned a deaf ear , though if the inventor were in want our hero relieved him . 
But this case did not seem to be like anything Tom had ever met with before . 
Contracting trouble blasting , repeated the youth , as he mused over what he had heard . 
That's it , the man went on . 
Permit me to introduce myself and he held out a card , on which was the name MR . 
JOB TITUS Down in the lower left hand corner was a line Titus Brothers , Contractors . 
I am glad to meet you , Mr. Titus , Tom said warmly , offering his hand . 
I don't know anything about the contracting business , but if you do blasting I suppose you use explosives , and I know a little about them . 
So I have heard , and that's why I came to you , the contractor went on . 
Now if you'll give me a few minutes of your time You had better come up to the house , interrupted Tom . 
We can talk more quietly there . 
Now I'll listen to you , the youth said , though I can't promise to aid you . 
I realize that , returned Mr. Titus . 
This is a sort of last chance I'm taking . 
Tunneling the Andes Mountains ! exclaimed Tom . 
The firm represented by my brother and myself have a contract to build a railroad for the Peruvian government . 
At a point some distance back in the district east of Lima , Peru , we are making a tunnel under the mountain . 
That is , we have it started , but now we can't advance any further . 
Why not ? Because of the peculiar character of the rock , which seems to defy the strongest explosive we can get . 
Tom Swift did not answer . 
Instead he jumped up from his chair and ran toward the front door . 
They both saw a strange sight . 
Standing on the front porch , which he seemed to occupy completely , was a large horse , with a saddle twisted underneath him . 
The animal was looking about him as calmly as though he always made it a practice to come up on the front piazza when stopping at a house . 
That is , he would have been dignified had it not been for his position and condition . 
But what in the world happened ? That ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , pointing with his broken crop at the horse on the piazza . 
I was riding him when he ran away just as my motorcycle tried to climb a tree . 
Let me help you ! begged Tom , striding forward . 
Mr. Titus , perhaps you will kindly lead the horse down off the piazza ? Certainly ! answered the tunnel contractor . 
Whoa now ! he called soothingly , as the steed evinced a disposition to sit down on the side railing . 
Ouch ! Oh , my back ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , as Tom helped him to stand up . 
Is it hurt ? asked Tom , anxiously . 
No , I've just got what old fashioned folks call a 'crick' in it , explained the elderly horseman . 
But it feels more like a river than a 'crick . 
I'll be all right presently . 
How did it happen ? asked Tom , as he led his guest toward the hall . 
Meanwhile Mr. Titus , wondering what it was all about , had tied the horse to a post out near the street curb , and had re entered the library . 
I was riding over to see you , Tom , to ask you if you wouldn't go to South America with me , began Mr. Damon , rubbing his leg tenderly . 
South America ? cried Tom , with a sudden look at Mr. Titus . 
Why , there isn't anything strange in that , is there ? You've been to wilder countries , and farther away than that . 
Yes , I know it's just a coincidence . 
Let me get where I can sit down , begged Mr. Damon . 
I think that crick in my back is running down into my legs , Tom . 
I feel a bit weak . 
Let me sit down , and get me a glass of water . 
I shall be all right presently . 
Tom Swift was the son of an inventor , and not only inherited his father's talents , but had greatly added to them , so that now Tom had a wonderful reputation . 
Mr. Swift was a widower , and he and Tom lived in a big house in Shopton , New York State , with Mrs. Baggert for a housekeeper . 
About the house , from time to time , shops and laboratories had been erected , until now there was a large and valuable establishment belonging to Tom and his father . 
The first volume of this series is entitled , Tom Swift and His Motor Cycle . 
It was through a motor cycle that Tom became acquainted with Mr. Wakefield Damon , who lived in a neighboring town . 
Mr. Damon had bought the motor cycle for himself , but , as he said , one day in riding it the machine tried to climb a tree near the Swift house . 
ministered to Mr. Damon , who , disgusted with the motor cycle , and wishing to reward Tom , let the young fellow have the machine . 
Tom's career began from that hour . 
For he learned to ride the motor cycle , after making some improvements in it , and from then on the youth had led a busy life . 
Soon afterward he secured a motor boat and from that it was but a step to an airship . 
The medium of the air having been conquered , Tom again turned his attention to the water , or rather , under the water , and he and his father made a submarine . 
Then he built an electric runabout , the speediest car on the road . 
Tom Swift might have made a fortune when he set out to discover the secret of the diamond makers . 
But Fate intervened , and soon after that quest he went to the caves of ice , where he and his friends met with disaster . 
Tom thought his end had come when he fell into captivity among the giants but even that turned out well , and he brought two of the giants away with him . 
With his wizard camera Tom did much to advance the cause of science . 
One practically stood face to face with the person , miles away , to whom one was talking . 
The volume immediately preceding this present one is called Tom Swift and His Aerial Warship . 
But he was true to his own country , though his rivals were nearly successful in their plots against him . 
The Mars , which was the name of Tom's latest craft , proved to be a great success , and the United States government purchased it . 
It was not long after the completion of this transaction that the events narrated in the first chapter of this book took place . 
often went with Tom on his trips . 
Besides Mary Nestor , Tom had other friends . 
was Ned Newton , who was employed in a Shopton bank . 
Ned also had often gone with Tom , though lately , having a better position , he had less time to spare . 
Well , do you feel better , Mr. Damon ? asked Tom , after a bit . 
Yes , very much , thank you . 
Bless my pen wiper ! but I thought I was done for when I saw my horse bolt for your front stoop . 
He rushed up it , fell down , but , fortunately , I managed to get out of his way , though the saddle girth slipped . 
And all I could think of was that my wife would say 'I told you so ! for she warned me not to ride this animal . 
But he never ran away with me before , and I was in a hurry to get over to see you , Tom . 
Now then , let's get down to business . 
Will you go to South America with me ? Whereabout in South America are you going , Mr. Damon , and why ? Tom asked . 
What a coincidence ! exclaimed Mr. Titus . 
I beg your pardon ? said Mr. Damon , interrogatively . 
I said what a coincidence . 
I am going there myself . 
Excuse me , interposed Tom , I don't believe , in the excitement of the moment , I introduced you gentlemen . 
Allow me Mr. Damon Mr. Titus . 
The presentation over , Mr. Damon went on You see , Tom , I have lately invested considerable money in a wholesale drug concern . 
We deal largely in Peruvian remedies , principally the bark of the cinchona tree , from which quinine is made . 
Of late there has been some trouble over our concession from the Peruvian government , and the company has decided to send me down there to investigate . 
Of course , as soon as I made up my mind to go I thought of you . 
So I came over to see if you would not accompany me . 
All went well until I reached your front gate . 
Then my horse became frightened by a yellow toy balloon some boy was blowing up in the street and bolted with me . 
I suppose if it had been a red or green balloon the effect would have been the same . 
However , here I am , somewhat the worse for wear . 
Chapter III A Face at the Window What is the matter ? asked Mr. Damon , catching the glance between Tom and the contractor . 
It isn't a question of revolutions . 
But it's something ! insisted Mr. Damon . 
Bless my ink bottle ! but it's something . 
As soon as I mention Peru , Tom , you and Mr. Titus eye each other as if I'd said something dreadful . 
Out with it ! What is it ? It's just just a coincidence , Tom said . 
But go on , Mr. Damon . 
Finish what you have to say and then we'll explain . 
Well , I guess I've told you all you need to know for the present . 
What does that mean ? Tom asked . 
Well , it means that our concern secured from the Peruvian government the right to take this quinine producing bark from the trees in a certain tropical section . 
But there has been a change in the government in the district where our men were working , and now the privilege , or concession , has been withdrawn . 
I'm going down to see if I can't get it back . 
And I want you to go with me . 
And I came here for very nearly the same thing , went on Mr. Titus . 
That is where the coincidence comes in . 
It is strange that we should both appeal to Mr. Swift at the same time . 
Well , Tom's a valuable helper ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
I know him of old , for I've been on many a trip with him . 
This is the first time I have had the pleasure of meeting him , resumed the tunnel contractor , but I have heard of him . 
I did not ask him to go to South America for us . 
I only wanted to get some superior explosive for my brother , who is in charge of driving the railroad tunnel through a spur of the Andes . 
I look after matters up North here , but I may have to go to Peru myself . 
As I told Mr. Swift , I had read of his invention of the giant cannon and the special powder he used in it to send a projectile such a distance . 
The cannon is now mounted as one of the pieces of ordnance for the defense of the Panama Canal , is it not ? he asked Tom . 
The young inventor nodded in assent . 
You see , he resumed , this is the situation . 
Back in the Andes Mountains , a couple of hundred miles east of Lima , the government is building a short railroad line to connect two others . 
If this is done it will mean that the products of Peru quinine bark , coffee , cocoa , sugar , rubber , incense and gold can more easily be transported . 
But to connect the two railroad lines a big tunnel must be constructed . 
My brother and I make a specialty of such work , and when we saw bids advertised for , our firm put in an estimate . 
That was over a year ago . 
Since then our men , aided by the native Indians of Peru , have been tunneling the mountain , until , about a month back , we struck a snag . 
What sort of snag ? Tom asked . 
A snag in the shape of extra hard rock , replied the tunnel contractor . 
Near the coast the lower hills are composed of crystalline rocks , syenite and granite , with , here and there , a strata of sandstone or limestone . 
These are , undoubtedly , relics of the lower Cretaceous age , and we , or rather , my brother , states that he has found them covered with marine Tertiary deposits . 
Now this Mesozoic band varies greatly . 
Porphyritic tuffs and massive limestone compose the western chain of the Andes above Lima , while in the Oroya Valley we find carbonaceous sandstones . 
Some of the tuffs may be of the Jurassic age , though the Cretaceous period is also largely represented . 
What did you find ? asked Tom , who knew enough about geology to understand the terms used . 
I at once thought of you , Tom Swift , and your powerful explosive , for I had read about it . 
Mr. Titus paused to draw on a piece of paper a rough map of Peru , and the district where the tunnel was being constructed . 
What do you say , Mr. Swift ? the contractor concluded . 
And you could carry out your plan of going with your friend here , and Mr. Titus nodded toward Mr. Damon . 
That is , if you were thinking of going . 
Well , I was thinking of it , Tom admitted . 
Mr. Damon and I have been on so many trips together that it seems sort of natural for us to 'team it . 
I have never been to Peru , and I should like to see the country . 
There is only one matter though , that bothers me . 
What is it ? asked Mr. Titus quickly . 
If it is a question of money dismiss it from your mind . 
The Peruvian government is paying a large sum for this tunnel , and we stand to make considerable , even if we were the lowest bidders . 
We can afford to pay you well that is , we shall be able to if we can complete the bore on time . 
That is what is bothering me now the unexpected strata of hard rock we have met with , which seems impossible to blast . 
But I feel sure we can do it with the explosive used in your giant cannon . 
That is just the point ! Tom exclaimed . 
I am not so sure my explosive would do . 
Why not ? the tunnel contractor asked . 
It's powerful enough isn't it ? Yes , it is powerful enough , but whether it will have the right effect on volcanic rock is hard to say . 
I should like to see a rock sample . 
I can telegraph to have some sent here to you , said Mr. Titus eagerly . 
Meantime , here is a description of it . 
I can read you that and , taking a letter from his pocket , he read to Tom a geological description of the hard rock . 
Hum ! Yes , mused Tom , as he listened . 
It seems to be of the nature of obsidian . 
Bless my watch chain ! cried Mr. Damon . 
What's that ? Obsidian is a volcanic rock a sort of combination of glass and flint for hardness , Tom explained . 
It is brittle , black in color , and the natives of the Admiralty Islands use it for tipping their spears with which they slay victims for their cannibalistic feasts . 
Bless my bless my ear drums ! gasped Mr. Damon . 
Cannibals ! Obsidian was also used by the ancient Mexicans to make knives and daggers , Tom went on . 
When Cortez conquered Mexico he found the priests cutting the hearts from their living victims with knives made from this volcanic glass like rock , known as obsidian . 
It may be that your brother has met with a vein of that in the tunnel , Tom said to the contractor . 
Possibly , admitted Mr. Titus . 
In that case , Tom stated , I may have to use a new kind of explosive . 
That used for my giant cannon would merely crumble the hard rock for a short distance . 
Then will you accept the contract , and help us out ? asked Mr. Titus eagerly . 
We will pay you well . 
Will you come to Peru and look over the ground ? And kill two birds with one stone , and come with me also ? put in Mr. Damon . 
Tom pondered for a moment . 
It disappeared as Mr. Titus ran from the room . 
Chapter IV Tom's Experiments Bless my looking glass , Tom , what does that mean ? exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
That face ! I don't know , answered the young inventor . 
But the sight of some one looking in here seemed to disturb Mr. Titus . 
Perhaps he saw your giant Koku looking in , suggested the odd , little man who blessed everything he could think of . 
The sight of his face , to any one not knowing him , Tom , would be enough to cause fright . 
It wasn't Koku who looked in the window , said Tom , decidedly . 
The young inventor and Mr. Damon hurried out after the tunnel contractor , who was running down the road that led in front of the Swift homestead . 
He's chasing some one , Tom , called Mr. Damon . 
Yes , I see he is . 
But who ? I can't see any one , reported Mr. Damon , who had run down to the gate , at which his horse was still standing . 
Mr. Damon had washed the dirt from his hands and face , and was wearing one of Mr. Swift's coats in place of his own split one . 
Tom joined the eccentric man and together they looked down the road after the running Mr. Titus . 
They were in half a mind to join him , when they saw him pull up short , raise his hands as though he had given over the pursuit , and turn back . 
I guess he got away , whoever he was , remarked Tom . 
We'll walk down and meet Mr. Titus , and ask him what it all means . 
Shortly afterward they came up to the contractor , who was breathing heavily after his run , for he was evidently not used to such exercise . 
As it was , he got away , but I think I gave him a scare , and h e knows that I saw him . 
It will make him more cautious in the future . 
Who was it ? asked Tom . 
And who is he , if it isn't asking information that ought not be given out ? inquired Mr. Damon . 
Oh , no , certainly . 
I can tell you , said the contractor . 
Only perhaps we had better wait until we get back to the house . 
Since one of their men was seen lurking around here there may be others , went on Mr. Titus , when the three were once more seated in the Swift library . 
It is best to be on the safe side . 
The face I saw , I'm sure , was that of Waddington , who is a tool of Blakeson Grinder , rival tunnel contractors . 
They put in a bid on this Andes tunnel , but we were lower in our figures by several thousand dollars , and the contract was awarded to us . 
Blakeson Grinder tried , by every means in their power , to get the job away from us . 
They even invoked the aid of some Peruvian revolutionists and politicians , but we held our ground and began the work . 
But , so far , we've managed to come out ahead . 
This Waddington is a sort of spy , and I've found him dodging me several times of late . 
I suppose he wants to find out my plans so as to be ready to jump in the breach in case we fail . 
Do you think your rivals had anything to do with the difficulties you are now meeting with in digging the tunnel ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Mr. Titus shook his head . 
The present difficulties are all of Nature's doing , he said . 
It's just the abnormally hard rock that is bothering us . 
Only for that we'd be all right , though we might have petty difficulties because of the mean acts of Blakeson Grinder . 
But I don't fear them . 
How do you think this Waddington , if it was he , knew you were coming here ? asked Tom . 
My brother and I have had some correspondence regarding you , Tom Swift . 
That is , I announced my intention of coming to see you , and my brother wrote me to use my discretion . 
I wrote back that I would consult you Our main office is in New York , where we employ a large clerical and expert force . 
There is nothing to prevent one of our stenographers , for instance , turning traitor and giving copies of the letters of my brother and myself to our rivals . 
Mind you , I don't say this was done , and I don't suspect any of our employees , but it would be an easy matter for any one to know my plans . 
I never thought of making a secret of them , or of my trip here . 
In some way Waddington found out about the last , and he must have followed me here . 
Then he sneaked up under the window , and tried to hear what we said . 
Do you think he did ? asked Tom . 
We took no pains to lower our voices . 
But , after all , he hasn't learned much that he didn't know before , if he knew I was coming here . 
He didn't learn the secret of the explosive that must be used , and that is the vital thing . 
For I defy him , or any other contractor , to blast that hard rock with any known explosive . 
We've tried every kind on the market and we've failed . 
We'll have to depend on you , Tom Swift , to help us out with some of your giant cannon powder . 
And I'm not sure that will work , said the young inventor . 
I think I'll have to experiment and make a new explosive , if I conclude to go to Peru . 
Oh , you'll go all right ! declared Mr. Titus with a smile . 
I can see that you are eager for the adventures I am sure you'll find there , and , besides , your friend here , Mr. Damon , needs you . 
That's what I do , Tom ! exclaimed the odd man . 
Bless my excursion ticket , but you must come ! I'll have to invent the new powder first , Tom said . 
That's what I like to hear ! exclaimed Mr. Titus . 
It shows you are thinking of coming with us . 
But I'm sure they have not , though they may think they can get it . 
That may be the reason they are following me so closely . 
They may want to know just when we will fail , and have to give up the contract , and they may think they can step in and finish the work . 
You have applied to me and , like a lawyer , I won't go over to the other side now . 
I consider myself retained by your firm , Mr. Titus , to invent some sort of explosive , and if I am successful I shall expect to be paid . 
Oh , of course ! cried the contractor eagerly . 
Very good , Tom went on . 
You needn't fear that I'll help the other fellows . 
Now to get down to business . 
I must see some samples of this rock in order to know what kind of explosive force is needed to rend it . 
I have some in New York , went on the contractor . 
I'll have it sent to you at once . 
I would have brought it , only it is too heavy to carry easily , and I was not sure I could engage you . 
Did that fellow Waddington , I believe you called him get away from you ? asked Mr. Damon . 
Clean away , the contractor answered . 
He was a better runner than I. It doesn't matter much , Tom said . 
He didn't hear anything that would benefit him , and I'll give my men orders to be on the lookout for him . 
You did ? Yes , on the highway . 
He inquired the way to your place . 
But there was nothing strange in that , since you employ a number of men , and I thought this one was coming to look for work . 
I can't say I liked his appearance , though . 
No , he isn't a very prepossessing individual , commented Mr. Titus . 
Well , now what's the first thing to be done , Tom Swift ? Get me some samples of the rock , so I can begin my experiments . 
And now let us consider about going to Peru . 
For I'm sure you will be successful in your experiments , and will find for us just the powder or explosive we need . 
I'll do all I can for you , Mr. Damon . 
The three then talked at some length regarding possible plans . 
I wonder what I've let myself in for now , the youth mused , as he went back to his laboratory . 
It's a new field for me tunnel blasting . 
Well , perhaps something may come of it . 
But of the strange adventure that was to follow his agreement to help Mr. Titus , our hero , Tom Swift , had not the least inkling . 
He strolled through the Shopton streets , and as he reached the outskirts of the town , he saw just ahead of him the figure of a girl . 
Tom quickened his pace , and presently was beside her . 
Where are you going , Mary ? he asked . 
Oh , Tom ! How you startled me ! she exclaimed , turning around . 
I was just thinking of you . 
Thanks ! Something nice ? I shan't tell you ! and she blushed . 
But where are you going ? Walking with you ! Tom was nothing if not bold . 
Hadn't you better wait until you're asked ? she retorted , mischievously . 
If I did I might not get an invitation . 
Tom had nearly finished his ice cream when he glanced toward the door , and started at the sight of a man who was entering the place . 
What's the matter ? asked Mary . 
Did you drop some ice cream , Tom ? No , Mary . 
But that man Mary turned in time to see an excited man hurry out of the candy shop after a hasty glance at Tom Swift . 
Who was he ? the girl asked . 
I er oh , some one I thought I knew , but I guess I don't , said Tom , quickly . 
Have some more cream , Mary ? No , thank you . 
But when he and Miss Nestor reached the front of the shop the strange man was not in sight . 
I guess he came in to cool off after his run , mused Tom , but when he saw me he didn't care about it . 
I wonder if that was Waddington ? He's a persistent individual if it was he . 
Are you undertaking any new adventures , Tom ? asked Mary . 
Well , I'm thinking of going to Peru . 
Oh , what a long way to go ! And when you get there will you write to me ? I'm collecting stamps , and I haven't any from Peru . 
Is that er the only reason you want me to write ? asked Tom . 
No , said Mary softly , as she ran up the walk . 
Tom smiled as he turned away . 
Three days later he received a box from New York . 
It contained the samples from the Andes tunnel , and Tom at once began his experiments to discover a suitable explosive for rending the hard stone . 
It is compressed molten lava , said Mr. Swift . 
You'll never get an explosive that will successfully blast that , Tom . 
We'll see , declared the young inventor . 
From the shack , trailing over the ground , were two insulated wires , which led to a pile of rocks and earth some distance off . 
Out of the temporary building came Koku , the giant , bearing in his arms a big rock , of peculiar formation . 
That's it , Koku ! exclaimed Tom Swift . 
Now don't drop it on your toes . 
No , Master , me no drop , the giant said , as he strode off with the heavy load as easily as a boy might carry a stone for his sling shot . 
Koku placed the big rock on top of the pile of dirt and stones and came back to the hut , just as Eradicate , the colored man of all work , emerged . 
Koku was not looking ahead , and ran into Eradicate with such force that the latter would have fallen had not the giant clasped his big arms about him . 
Heah now ! Whut yo' all doin' t' me ? angrily demanded Eradicate . 
You come back from that stone pile ! Tom ordered . 
I'm going to blow it up in a minute , and if you get too near you'll have the breath knocked out of you worse than Koku did it . 
Come back , I say ! But Eradicate was obstinate and kept on . 
Tom , who was adjusting a firing battery in the shack , laughed , and then in exasperation cried Koku , go and get him and bring him back . 
Carry him if he won't come any other way . 
I don't want the dear old chump to get the fright of his life , and he sure will if he goes too close . 
Bring him back ! Koku bring , Master , was the giant's answer . 
He ran toward Eradicate , who , seeing his tormentor approaching , redoubled his shuffling pace toward the stone pile . 
There him be , Master ! said the giant . 
So I see , laughed Torn . 
Now you stay here , Rad . 
Look out now ! cried Tom , suddenly . 
If things go right there won't be a rock left for you to 'bash' anybody's head with , Rad . 
There was a loud report , and where the stone pile had been there was a big hole in the ground , while the air was filled with fragments of rock and dirt . 
These came down in a shower on the roof of the shack , and Eradicate covered his ears with his trembling hands . 
Am am de world comin' to de end , Massa Tom ? he asked . 
Am dat Gabriel's trump I done heah ? No , you dear old goose ! laughed the young inventor . 
That was just a charge of my new explosive a small charge , too . 
But it seems to have done the work . 
He ran from the shack to the place where the rock pile had been , and picked up several small fragments . 
Busted all to pieces ! exulted Tom Swift . 
Not a piece left as big as a hickory nut . 
That's going some ! I've got the right mixture at last . 
If an ounce did that , a few hundred pounds ought to knock that Andes tunnel through the mountain in no time . 
I'll telegraph to Mr. Titus . 
Well , Tom , he asked , another failure ? No , Dad ! Success ! This time I turned the trick . 
I seem to have gotten just the right mixture . 
Look , these are some of the pieces left from the big rock one of the samples Mr. Titus sent me . 
It was all cracked up as small as this , and he held out the fragments he had picked up in the field . 
Mr. Swift regarded them for a few moments . 
That's better , Tom , he said . 
I didn't think you could get an explosive that would successfully shatter that hard rock , but you seem to have done it . 
Have you the formula all worked out ? All worked out , Dad . 
I only made a small quantity , but the same proportions will hold good for the larger amounts . 
I'm going to start in and make it now . 
The message was to Mr. Titus , and read Explosive success . 
Start making it at once . 
Ready for Peru in month's time . 
Thirteen words , repeated Tom , as the operator called them back to him . 
I hope that doesn't mean bad luck . 
The experiment which Tom Swift had just brought to a successful conclusion was one of many he had conducted , extending over several wearying weeks . 
As soon as Tom had received the samples of the rock he had begun to experiment . 
First he tried some of the explosive that was so successful in the giant cannon , As he had feared , it was not what was needed . 
It cracked the rock , but did not disintegrate it , and that was what was needed . 
The hard rock must be broken up into fragments that could be easily handled . 
Merely to crack it necessitated further explosions , which would only serve to split it more and perhaps wedge it fast in the tunnel . 
So Tom tried different mixtures , using various chemicals , but none seemed to be just right . 
The trials were not without danger , either . 
Once , in mixing some ingredients , there was an explosion that injured one man , and blew Tom some distance away . 
Fortunately for him , there was an open window in the direction in which he was propelled , and he went through that , escaping with only some cuts and bruises . 
But Tom would not give up , and finally , after many trials , he hit on what he felt to be the right mixture . 
The result we have seen , It was a success . 
A day after receiving Tom's message Mr. Titus came on and a demonstration was given of the powerful explosive . 
Tom , that's great ! cried the tunnel contractor . 
Our troubles are at an end now . 
But , had he known it , new ones were only just beginning . 
Tom at once began preparations for making the explosive on a large scale , as much of it would be needed in the Andes tunnel . 
Then , having turned the manufacturing end of it over to his men , Tom began his preparations for going to Peru . 
Mr. Damon was also getting ready , and it was arranged that he , with Tom and Mr. Titus , should take a vessel from San Francisco , crossing the continent by train . 
The supply of explosive would follow them by special freight . 
We might have gone by Panama except for the slide in the canal , Tom said . 
And I suppose I could take you across the continent in my airship , Mr. Titus , if you object to railroad travel . 
No , thank you , Tom . 
If it's just the same to you , I'd rather stay on the ground , the contractor said . 
I'm more used to it . 
It was a mahogany work box , of unique design , beautifully decorated , and Tom purchased it . 
Shall I have it sent ? asked the clerk . 
No , thank you , Tom answered . 
He knew the young lady who had waited on him , and , for reasons of his own , he did not want her to know that Mary was to get the box . 
Carrying the present to his laboratory , Tom prepared to wrap it up suitably to send to Mary , with a note . 
Just , however , as he was looking for a box suitable to contain the gift , he received a summons to the telephone . 
Mr. Titus , in New York , wanted to speak to him . 
Here , Rad ! Tom called . 
Be careful of it , Tom cautioned . 
Oh , I'll be careful , Massa Tom , was the reply . 
And Eradicate was all too careful . 
Mah Landy ! Dat suttinly am nice Ah ! Um ! Jest laik some ob de old mahogany furniture dat was in our fambily down Souf . 
Eradicate did not mean his family , exactly , but the one in which he had been a slave . 
Yassum , dat shore am nice ! he went on , talking to himself as he admired the present . 
I shore got t' put dat in a good box ! An' dish year note , too . 
Let's see what it done say on de outside . 
Eradicate held the envelope carefully upside down , and read or rather pretended to read the name and address . 
Eradicate knew well enough where Mary lived , for this was not the first time he had gone there with messages from his young master . 
Massa Tom shore am a fine writer , mused the negro , as he slowly turned the envelope around . 
I cain't read nobody's writin' but hisen , nohow . 
Had Eradicate been strictly honest with himself , he would have confessed that he could not read any writing , or printing either . 
He seemed to fix a picture of it in his mind , though the letters and figures by themselves meant nothing to him . 
So when Tom told him the envelope contained the name and address of Miss Nestor , Eradicate needed nothing more . 
He rummaged about in some odds and ends in the corner of the laboratory , and brought out a strong , wooden box , which had a cover that screwed down . 
Dat'll be de ticket ! Eradicate exclaimed . 
De mahogany present will jest fit . 
Eradicate took some excelsior to pad the box , and then , dropping inside it the gift , already wrapped in tissue paper , he proceeded to screw on the cover . 
There was something printed in red letters on the outside box , but Eradicate could not read , so it did not trouble him . 
Dat Miss Nestor shore will laik her present , he murmured . 
An' I'll be mighty keerful ob it' laik Massa Tom tole me . 
He wouldn't trust dat big lummox Koku wif anyt'ing laik dis . 
Screwing on the cover , and putting a piece of wrapping paper outside the rough , wooden box . 
with the letter in his hand , Eradicate , full of his own importance , set off for Miss Nestor's house . 
Tom had not returned from the telephone , over which he was talking to Mr. Titus . 
The message was an important one . 
The contractor said he had received word from his brother in Peru that his presence was urgently needed there . 
Could you arrange to get off sooner than we planned , Tom ? asked Mr. Titus . 
I am afraid something has happened down there . 
Have you sent the first shipment of explosive ? Yes , that went three days ago . 
It ought to arrive at Lima soon after we do . 
Why yes , I can start to night if we have to . 
I'll find out if Mr. Damon can be with us on such short notice . 
I wish you would , came from Mr. Titus . 
And say , Tom , do you think you could take that giant Koku with you ? Why ? Well , I think he'd come in handy . 
There are some pretty rough characters in those Andes Mountains , and your big friend might be useful . 
I was thinking of it , anyhow . 
Now I'll call up Mr. Damon , and I'll let you know , in an hour or so , if he can make it . 
Bless my hair brush , yes , Tom ! exclaimed the eccentric man , when told of the change in plans . 
I can leave to night as well as not . 
Word to this effect was sent on to Mr. Titus , and then began some hurrying on the part of Tom Swift . 
Rad , did you send that present to Miss Nestor ? asked Tom , later , as he finished packing his grip . 
Took it mase'f ! That's good ! I guess I'll have to say good bye to Mary over the telephone . 
I won't have time to call . 
I'm glad I thought of the present . 
Tom got the Nestor house on the wire . 
But Mary was not in . 
There's a package here for her , said the girl's mother . 
Did you ? Yes , I sent that , Tom said . 
Sorry I won't he able to call and say good bye , but I'm in a terrible rush . 
I'll see her as soon as I get back , and I'll write as soon as I arrive . 
Do , urged Mrs. Nestor . 
We'll all be glad to hear from you , for Tom and Mary were tentatively engaged to be married . 
Tom and Koku went on with their hurried preparations to leave for New York . 
Eradicate begged to be taken along , but Tom gently told the faithful old servant that it was out of the question . 
Besides , Rad , he said , it's dangerous in those Andes Mountains . 
Why , they have birds there , as big as cows , and they can swoop down and carry off a man your size . 
Am dat shorely so , Massa Tom ? Of course it is ! You get the dictionary and read about the condors of the Andes Mountains . 
Dat's what I'll do , Massa Tom . 
I'll stay right yeah ! Shortly before Tom and Koku departed for the railroad station , where they were to take a train for New York , Mary Nestor returned home . 
Tom called you on the telephone to say good bye , her mother informed her , and said he was sorry he could not see you . 
But he sent some sort of gift . 
Oh , how sweet of him ! Mary exclaimed . 
Where is it ? On the dining room table . 
Eradicate brought it with a note . 
Mary read the note first . 
In it Tom begged Mary to accept the little token , and to think of him when she used it . 
Oh ! I wonder what it can be , she cried in delight . 
Better open it and see , advised Mr. Nestor , who had come in at that moment . 
Mary cut the string of the outside paper , and folded back the wrapper . 
Dynamite ! Handle with care ! repeated Mr. Nestor , in a sort of dazed voice . 
Quick ! Get a pail of water ! Dump it in the bathtub ! Soak it good , and then telephone for the police . 
Dynamite ! What does this mean ? He rushed toward the kitchen , evidently with the intention of getting a pail of water , but Mary clasped him by the arm . 
Don't get so excited ! Excited ! he cried . 
Tom did send this I know his writing . 
And wasn't it Eradicate who brought this package , Mother ? Yes , my dear . 
But your father is right . 
Let him put it in water , then it will be safe . 
Oh , we'll all be blown up . 
Get the water ! No ! cried Mary . 
Tom wouldn't send me dynamite , There must be a present for me in there . 
Tom must have put it in the wrong box by mistake . 
I'm going to open it . 
Mary's calmness had its effect on her parents . 
Mr. Nestor cooled down , as did his wife , and a closer examination of the outer box did not seem to show that it was an infernal machine of any kind . 
It's all a mistake , Daddy , Mary said . 
Get me a screw driver . 
After some delay one was found , and Mr. Nestor himself opened the box . 
Humph ! exclaimed Mr. Nestor , a slowly gathering light of anger showing in his eyes . 
It is a nice present , but that is a very poor sort of joke to play , in my estimation . 
Joke ! What joke ? asked Mary . 
Putting a present in a box labeled Dynamite , and giving us such a scare , went on her father . 
Oh , Father , I'm sure he didn't mean to do it ! Mary said , earnestly . 
Now , now ! Tut , tut ! exclaimed Mr. Nestor . 
It isn't your fault , Mary , but this Tom Swift must be taught a lesson . 
He was careless , if nothing worse , and , for all he knew , there might have been some stray bits of dynamite in that packing box . 
There ! I guess that will make him wish he hadn't done it ! exclaimed Mr. Nestor , as he called a messenger and sent the letter to Tom's house . 
Mary and her mother did not know the con tents of the note , but Mary tried to get Tom on the wire and explain . 
However , she was unable to reach him , as Tom was on the point of leaving . 
Good bye , Dad ! Tom called . 
Tom and Koku were off on the first stage of their journey . 
Did you have a good trip ? Oh , all right , yes . 
Nothing happened to speak of , though we were delayed by a freight wreck . 
Has Mr. Damon got here yet ? Not yet , Tom . 
But I had a message saying he was on his way . 
Come on up to the rooms I have engaged . 
Hello , what's all the crowd here for ? asked the contractor in some surprise , for a throng had gathered at the hotel entrance . 
I expect it's Koku they're staring at , announced Tom , and the giant it was who had attracted the attention . 
He was carrying his own big valise , and a small steamer trunk belonging to Tom , as easily as though they weighed nothing , the trunk being under one arm . 
I guess they don't see men of his size outside of circuses , commented the contractor . 
We can pretty nearly , though not quite match him , down in Peru though , Tom . 
Some of the Indians are big fellows . 
We'll get up a wrestling match between one of them and Koku , suggested Tom . 
Come on ! he called to the giant , who was surrounded by a crowd . 
That's right ! added some one in the crowd with a laugh . 
He might have broken the springs . 
All right , assented Tom , good naturedly , tossing the chauffeur a coin . 
Here you are , have a cigar on the giant . 
It didn't make any difference , replied the young inventor . 
I was about ready to come anyhow . 
I just had to hustle a little , and he thought of how he had had to send Mary's present to her instead of taking it himself . 
As yet he was all unaware of the commotion it had caused . 
Did you get the powder shipment off all right ? Yes , and it will be there almost as soon as we . 
Other shipments will follow as we need them . 
My father will see to that . 
I'm glad you hit on the right kind of powder , went on the contractor . 
I guess I didn't make any mistake in coming to you , Tom . 
Well , I hope not . 
Of course the explosive worked all right in experimental charges with samples of the tunnel rock . 
It remains to be seen what it will do under actual conditions , and in big service charges . 
Oh , I've no doubt it will work all right . 
What time do we leave here ? Tom asked . 
At two thirty this afternoon . 
We have just time to get a good dinner and have our baggage transferred to the Chicago limited . 
In less than a week we ought to be in San Francisco and aboard the steamer . 
I hope Mr. Damon arrives on time . 
Oh , you can generally depend on him , said Tom . 
I telephoned him , just before I started from Shopton , and he said Bless my carpet slippers ! cried a voice outside the hotel apartment . 
But I can find my way all right . 
I know the number of the room . 
No ! you needn't take my bag . 
Ah , Tom Mr. Titus ! Glad to see you ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
I I am a little late , I fear had an accident wait until I get my breath , and he sank , panting , into a chair . 
Are you ? Yes my taxicab ran into another . 
But you're all out of breath , said Mr. Titus . 
Did you run ? No , but I walked upstairs . 
What ! Seven flights ? exclaimed Tom . 
Weren't the hotel elevators running ? Yes , but I don't like them . 
There , I'm better now , went on Mr. Damon , when Tom had given him a glass of water . 
Bless my paper weight ! The drug concern will have to vote me an extra dividend for what I've gone through . 
Well , I'm here , anyhow . 
How is everything ? Fine ! cried Tom . 
We'll soon be off for Peru ! They talked over plans and made sure nothing had been forgotten . 
Their railroad tickets had been secured by Mr. Titus so there was nothing more to do save wait for train time . 
I've never been to Peru , Tom remarked shortly before lunch . 
What sort of country is it ? Quite a wonderful country , Mr. Titus answered . 
I have been very much interested in it since my brother and I accepted this tunnel contract . 
Peru seems to have taken its name from Peru , a small river on the west coast of Colombia , where Pizarro landed . 
The country , geographically , may be divided into three sections longitudinally . 
The coast region is a sandy desert , with here and there rivers flowing through fertile valleys . 
The sierra region is the Andes division , about two hundred and fifty miles in width . 
Is that where we're going ? asked Tom . 
there is the montana region of tropical forests , running down to the valley of the Amazon . 
That sounds interesting , commented Mr. Damon . 
It is interesting , declared Mr. Titus . 
For it is from this tropical region that your quinine comes , Mr. Damon , though you may not have to go there to straighten out your affairs . 
I think you can do better bargaining with the officials in Lima , or near there . 
Are there any wild animals in Peru ? Tom inquired . 
Of course there are the llamas and alpacas , which are the beasts of burden almost like little camels you might say , though much more gentle . 
Then there is the wild vicuna , the fleece of which is made into a sort of wool , after which a certain kind of cloth is named . 
This bear is often found on lofty mountain tops , but only when driven there in search of food . 
The condors , of course , are big birds of prey in the Andes . 
There is another bird of the vulture variety , with wings of black and white feathers . 
The ancient Incas used to decorate their head dresses with these wing feathers . 
Well , I'm glad I'm going to Peru , said Tom . 
I never knew it was such an interesting country . 
But I don't suppose we'll have time to see much of it . 
Oh , I think you will , commented Mr. Titus . 
We don't always have to work on the tunnel . 
There are numerous holidays , or holy days , which our Indian workers take off , and we can do nothing without them . 
I'll see that you have a chance to do some exploring if you wish . 
I brought my electric rifle with me , and I may get a chance to pop over one of those bears with a white nose . 
Are they good to eat ? The Indians eat them , I believe , when they can get them , but I wouldn't fancy the meat , said the contractor . 
Luncheon over , the three travelers departed with their baggage for the Chicago Limited , which left from the Pennsylvania Station at Twenty third Street . 
As usual , Koku attracted much attention because of his size . 
The trip to San Francisco was without incident worth narrating and in due time our friends reached the Golden Gate where they were to go aboard their steamer . 
They had to wait a day , during which time Tom and Mr. Titus made inquiries regarding the first powder shipment . 
They had had unexpected good luck , for the explosive , having been sent on ahead by fast freight , was awaiting them . 
So we can take it with us on the Bellaconda , said , Tom , naming the vessel on which they were to sail . 
Wait a minute ! Hold that gangway . 
I have a passenger for you ! cried the chauffeur . 
He pulled up with a screeching of brakes , and a man with a heavy black beard fairly leaped from the vehicle , running toward the plank which was all but cast off . 
My fare ! My fare ! yelled the tax cab driver . 
Take it out of that ! Keep the change ! cried the bearded man over his shoulder , tossing a crumpled bill to the chauffeur . 
And then , clutching his valise in a firm hand , the belated passenger rushed up the gangplank just in time to board the steamer which was moving away from the dock . 
Close shave that , observed Tom . 
That's right , assented Mr. Titus . 
Well , we're off for Peru ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , as the vessel moved down the bay . 
Chapter VIII The Bearded Man Travel to Tom and Mr. Damon presented no novelties . 
The giant was interested in the ship , in the water , in the passengers , in the crew and in the sights to be seen as they progressed down the harbor . 
And the big man himself was a source of wonder to all save his own party . 
Everywhere he went about the decks , or below , he was followed by a staring but respectful crowd . 
Koku took it all good naturedly , however , and even consented to show his great strength by lifting heavy weights . 
You'll kill yourself ! But Koku carried the anchor where it ought to go , and from then on he was looked up to with awe and admiration by the sailors . 
, is approximately nine hundred miles . 
The first day was spent in getting settled , becoming used to their new surroundings , finding their places and neighbors at table , and in making acquaintances . 
There were some interesting men and women aboard the Bellaconda , and Tom Swift , Mr. Damon and Mr. Titus soon made friends with them . 
This usually came about through the medium of Koku , the giant . 
Persons seeing him would inquire about him , and when they learned he was Tom Swift's helper it was an easy topic with which to open conversation . 
But bless my fountain pen ! cried Mr. Damon , When Tom objected to so much notoriety . 
You did it all didn't you ? Yes , I know . 
But these people won't believe it . 
Oh , yes they will ! said the odd man . 
I'll take good care that they believe it . 
If any one say it not so , you tell me ! broke Koku , shaking his huge fist . 
No , I guess I'd better keep still , said Tom , with a laugh . 
Did you ever hear anything more of that fellow , Waddington ? asked Tom of Mr. Titus one day . 
He seems to have dropped out of sight . 
And are your rivals , Blakeson Grinder , making any trouble ? Not that I've heard of . 
Though just what the situation may be down in Peru I don't know . 
I fancy everything isn't going just right or my brother would not be so anxious for me to come on in such a hurry . 
Do you anticipate any real trouble ? Mr. Titus paused a moment before answering . 
Well , yes , he said , finally , I do ! What sort ? asked Tom . 
I'll be perfectly frank with you , Tom . 
You know I told you at the time that we were in for difficulties . 
I didn't want you to go into this thing blindly . 
Oh , I'm not afraid of trouble , Tom hastened to assure his friend . 
I've had more or less of it in my life , and I'm willing to meet it again . 
Only I like to know what kind it is . 
Well , I can't tell you exactly , went an the tunnel contractor . 
Those rivals of ours , Blakeson Grinder , are unscrupulous fellows . 
They feel very bitter about not getting the contract , I hear . 
And they would be only too glad to have us fail in the work . 
That would mean that they , as the next lowest bidders , would be given the job . 
And we would have to make up the difference out of our pockets , as well as lose all the work we have , so far , put on the tunnel . 
And you don't want that to happen ! I guess not , my boy ! Well , it won't happen if we get there in time with this new explosive of yours . 
That will do the business I'm sure . 
I hope so , murmured Tom . 
Well , we'll soon see . 
And now I think I'll go and write a few letters . 
We are going to put in at Panama , and I can mail them there . 
Tom started for his stateroom , and rapidly put his hand in the inner pocket of his coat . 
He drew out a bundle of letters and papers , and , as he looked at them , a cry of astonishment came from his lips . 
What's the matter ? asked Mr. Titus . 
Why here's a letter from Mary from Mr. Nestor , he went on , as he scanned the familiar handwriting . 
I stuck it in my pocket with some other mail , he mused , and I never thought of it again until just now . 
But this is the first time I've worn this coat since that day . 
A letter from Mr. Nestor ! Probably Mary wrote , thanking me for the box , and her father addressed the envelope for her . 
Well , let's see what it says . 
Says I tried to dynamite them all or at least scare them into believing I was going to . 
I can't understand it ! Tell me about it , Tom , suggested Mr. Damon , coming into Tom's stateroom . 
Which he evidently did , Tom went on , but when it got there Mary's present was in a box labeled 'Dynamite . 
Mr. Damon read over Mr. Nestor's letter which had lain so long in Tom's pocket unopened . 
I think I see how it happened , said the old man . 
Eradicate can't read can he , Tom ? No , but he pretends he can . 
And did you have any empty boxes marked dynamite in your laboratory ? Why yes , I believe I did . 
I used dynamite as one of the ingredients of my new explosive . 
Well then , it's as clear as daylight . 
Eradicate , being unable to read , took one of the empty dynamite boxes in which to pack Mary's present . 
Tom thought for a moment . 
Then he burst into a laugh . 
That's it , he said , a bit ruefully . 
No wonder Mr. Nestor was roiled . 
He thought I was playing a joke . 
But how ? By letter , said Mr. Damon . 
I'll send a wireless , decided Tom , and he began the composition of a message that cost him considerable in tolls before he had hit on the explanation that suited him . 
That ought to clear the atmosphere , he said when the wireless had shot his message into the ether . 
When I get hold of Eradicate Better teach him to read if he's going to do up love packages , interrupted Mr. Damon , dryly . 
I will , decided the young inventor . 
The Bellaconda stopped at Panama and then kept on her way south . 
Soon after that she ran into a severe tropical storm , and for a time there was some excitement among the passengers . 
The more timid of them put on life preservers , though the captain and his officers assured them there was no danger . 
As they approached their quarters the door of a stateroom farther up the passage opened , and a head was thrust out . 
Will you send a steward to me ? a man requested . 
I am feeling very ill , and need assistance . 
Certainly , Tom answered , and at that moment he heard Mr. Titus utter an exclamation . 
What is it ? asked Tom , for the man who had appealed for help , had withdrawn his head . 
That that man ! exclaimed the contractor . 
That was Waddington , the tool of our rivals . 
Waddington ! repeated Tom , with a look at the now closed door . 
Why , the bearded man has that stateroom the bearded man who so nearly lost the steamer . 
He isn't Waddington ! And I tell you Waddington is in that room ! insisted the contractor . 
I only saw the upper part of his face , but I'd know his eyes anywhere . 
But , at the same time , they could keep watch over it . 
I tell you Waddington is in there ! insisted Mr. Titus , hoarsely whispering . 
Well , perhaps he may be , admitted Tom . 
But several times I have seen the bearded man going in there , and it's only a single stateroom , for it's so marked on the deck plan . 
Waddington might be disguised with a false beard , Tom . 
But did the man who just now looked out have a beard ? I couldn't tell , as I saw only the upper part of his face . 
But those were Waddington's shifty eyes , I'm positive . 
If Waddington were on board don't you suppose you would have seen him before this ? Not positively , no . 
If he and the bearded man are one and the same that would account for it . 
But I haven't noticed the bearded man once since he came aboard in such a hurry . 
Nor have I , now that I come to think of it , Tom admitted . 
However , there is an easy way to prove who is in there . 
How ? We'll knock on the door and go in . 
Perhaps he won't let us . 
He'll think it's the steward he called for . 
Come , you know Waddington better than I do . 
You knock and go in . 
I don't know Waddington very well , admitted the contractor . 
I have only seen him a few times , but I am sure that was he . 
But what shall I do when he sees I'm not the steward ? Tell him you have sent for one . 
I'll go with the message , so it will be true enough . 
Mr. Titus considered for a moment , and then he said Yes , I guess that is a good plan . 
You go for the steward , Tom , and I'll see if I can get in that stateroom . 
But I'm sure I'm not mistaken . 
I'll find Waddington in there , perhaps in the person of the bearded man , disguised . 
Or else they are using a single stateroom as a double one . 
And while Tom went off down the pitching and rolling corridor to find a steward , Mr. Titus , not without some apprehension , advanced to knock on the door of the suspect . 
If it is Waddington he'll know me at once , of course , thought the contractor , and there may be a row . 
Well , I can't help it . 
The success of my brother and myself depends on finishing that tunnel , and we can't have Waddington , and those whose tool he is , interfering . 
Here goes ! He tapped on the door , and a faint voice called Come in ! The contractor entered , and saw the bearded man lying in his berth . 
Is there anything I can do for you ? asked the contractor , bending close over the man . 
He wanted to see if the beard were false . 
Somewhat to his surprise the contractor saw that undoubtedly it was real . 
Steward , will you kindly get me Oh , you're not the steward ! the bearded man exclaimed . 
No , my friend and I heard you call , replied the contractor . 
He has gone for the steward , who will be here soon . 
Can I do anything for you in the meanwhile ? No not a thing ! was the rather snappish answer , and the man turned his face away . 
I beg your pardon , he went on , as if conscious that he had acted rudely , but I am suffering very much . 
The steward knows just what I want . 
I have had these attacks before . 
I am a poor sailor . 
If you will send the steward to me I will be obliged to you . 
He can fix me up . 
Very well , assented Mr. Titus . 
Yes , I'll look after him , the steward said He's been this way before . 
Thank you , sir , for calling me . 
I guess the steward has been well tipped , thought Tom . 
As Mr. Titus came out and the door was shut , the young inventor asked in a whisper Well , was it be ? The contractor shook his head . 
I never was more surprised in my life . 
I felt sure it was Waddington in there , but it wasn't . 
That man's beard is real , and while he has a look like Waddington about the eyes and upper part of his face , the man is a stranger to me . 
That is I think so , but in spite of all that , I have a queer feeling that I have met him before . 
That I can't say , and the tunnel contractor shook his head . 
Whew ! That was a bad one ! he exclaimed , as the steamer pitched and tossed in an alarming manner . 
Yes , the storm seems to be getting worse instead of better , agreed Tom . 
I hope none of the cargo shifts and comes banging up against my new explosive . 
If it does , there'll be no more tunnel digging for any of us . 
Better not mention the fact of the explosives on board , suggested Mr. Titus . 
I won't , promised Tom . 
The passengers are frightened enough as it is . 
But I watched the powder being stored away . 
I guess it is safe . 
The storm raged for two days before it began to die away . 
Meanwhile , nothing was seen , on deck or in the dining cabins , of the bearded man . 
He was traveling in the interests of a large firm of coffee importers of the United States , and was going to Lima . 
And there's no trace of Waddington ? asked Tom of Mr. Titus , as they were discussing matters in their stateroom one day . 
He seems to have dropped out of sight , and I'm glad of it . 
Perhaps Blakeson Grinder have given up the fight against you . 
I wish they had , though I don't look for any such good luck . 
But I'm willing to fight them , now that we have an even chance , thanks to your explosive . 
The storm blew itself out . 
The Bellaconda crossed the line , and there was the usual horseplay among the sailors when Father Neptune came aboard to hold court . 
As for Koku he was taken in charge by the sailors and found life forward very agreeable . 
Senor Pinto had recovered from his seasickness , the steward told Tom and Mr. Titus , but still he kept to his stateroom . 
It was when the Bellaconda was within a day or two of Callao that a wireless message was received for Mr. Titus . 
It was from his brother . 
The message read Have information from New York office that rivals are after you . 
What does that mean ? asked Tom . 
Well , I presume it means our rival contractors know we have a supply of your new powder on board , and they may try to get it away from us . 
To prevent our using it to complete the tunnel . 
In that case they'll get the secret of it to use for themselves , when the contract goes to them by default . 
Can we do anything to protect the powder , Tom ? Well , I don't know that we'll need to while it's stowed away in the cargo . 
They can't get at it any more than we can , until the ship unloads . 
I guess it's safe enough . 
We'll just have to keep our eyes open when it's taken out of the hold , though . 
Both turned quickly , and saw a round black object rolling toward them . 
From the object projected what seemed to be a black cord , and the end of this cord was glowing and smoking . 
For a moment neither Tom nor Mr. Titus spoke . 
Run ! yelled the contractor . 
Before either of them could do anything , a queer figure of an elderly gentleman stepped partly from behind a deck house , and stooped over the smoking object . 
Look out ! yelled Mr. Titus , crouching low . 
For a moment neither Tom nor Mr. Titus could speak . 
They felt an inexpressible sense of relief . 
Yes , I think it would have gone off in another second or two . 
Rather curious isn't it ? Curious ? Curious ! asked and exclaimed Mr. Titus . 
Why , yes , went on the little man , in the most matter of fact tone . 
You see , most explosive bombs are round , made that way so the force will be equal in all directions . 
But this one , you notice , has a bulge , or protuberance , on one side , so to speak . 
And the bulge was pointed toward you gentlemen , if you noticed . 
I should say I did ! cried Mr. Titus . 
No , no , I'd better keep it , went on the person who had rendered the bomb ineffective . 
You might drop it you know . 
You are nervous your hand shakes . 
I want to shake hands with you ! exclaimed Mr. Titus to thank you ! Oh , that's it . 
I thought you wanted the bomb . 
Shake hands ? Certainly ! And while this ceremony was being gone through with , Tom had a moment to study the appearance of the man who had saved their lives . 
He had seen the passenger once or twice before , but had taken no special notice of him . 
Now he had good reason to observe him . 
Tom beheld a little , thin man , little in the sense of being of the bean pole construction . 
And Tom noticed that the eyes of the little man were as bright as those of an eagle . 
Nothing seemed to escape them . 
I want to add my thanks to those of Mr. Titus for saving our lives , said Tom , as he advanced . 
We don't know what to make of it all , but you certainly stopped that bomb from going off . 
Yes , perhaps I did , admitted the little man coolly and calmly , as though preventing bomb explosions was his daily exercise before breakfast . 
Tom and Mr. Titus introduced themselves by name . 
I am Professor Swyington Bumper , said the bomb holder , with a bow , removing his hat , and again disclosing his shiny bald head . 
I am very glad to have met you indeed . 
And we are more than glad , said Tom , fervently , as he glanced at the explosive . 
Now that the danger is over , went on Mr. Titus , suppose we make an investigation , and find out how this bomb came to be here . 
Just what I was about to suggest , remarked Professor Bumper . 
Bombs , such as this , do not sprout of themselves on bare decks . 
And I take it this one is explosive . 
Let me look at it , suggested Tom . 
I know something of explosives . 
It needed but a casual examination on the part of one who had done considerable experimenting with explosives to disclose the fact that it had every characteristic of a dangerous bomb . 
Only the pulling out of the fuse had rendered it harmless . 
If it had gone off , said Tom , we would both have been killed , or . 
at least , badly injured , Mr. Titus . 
I believe you , Tom . 
And we owe our lives to Professor Bumper . 
I'm glad I could be of service , gentlemen , the scientist remarked , in an easy tone . 
Explosives are out of my line , but I guessed it was rather dangerous to let this go off . 
Have you any idea how it got here ? Not in the least , said Tom . 
But some one must have placed it here , or dropped it behind us . 
Would any one have an object in doing such a thing ? the professor asked . 
Tom and Mr. Titus looked at one another . 
Waddington ! murmured the contractor . 
It may be this bomb has only a light charge in it , and he only meant to cripple us . 
We'll find out about that , said Tom . 
Better be careful , urged Mr. Titus . 
I will , the young inventor promised . 
I beg your pardon , he went on to Professor Bumper . 
We have been talking about something of which you know nothing . 
Is he here ? asked the professor . 
No. And that is what makes it all the more strange , said Mr. Titus . 
At one time I thought he was here , but I was mistaken . 
The bomb contained no missiles , and though it held a quantity of explosive , it was of a slow burning kind . 
They just wanted to disable us , said the contractor . 
Tom , who did it ? I don't know . 
Did you ever see this Professor Bumper before ? I never did . 
And did it strike you as curious that he should happen to be so near at hand when the bomb fell behind us ? I hadn't thought of that , admitted the contractor . 
Do you mean that he might have dropped it himself ? Well , I wouldn't go so far as to say that , replied Tom , slowly . 
But I think it would be a good idea to find out all we can of Professor Swyington Bumper . 
I agree with you , Tom . 
Chapter XI In the Andes Professor Swyington Bumper seemed to live in a region all by himself . 
He seemed to be thinking thoughts far , far away , and he was never without a book either a bound volume or a note book . 
If he had a note book the bald headed professor was continually jotting down memoranda in it . 
I can hardly think of him as a conspirator against us , said Tom to Mr. Titus . 
After you have been in the contracting business as long as I have you'll distrust every one , was the answer . 
Waddington isn't on board , or I'd distrust him . 
That Spaniard , Senor Pinto . 
seems to be out of consideration , and there only remains the professor . 
But Professor Bumper proved to be above suspicion . 
He is making a search for something , but he won't say what it is , the captain said . 
At first we thought it was gold or jewels , for he goes away off into the Andes Mountains , where both gold and jewels have been found . 
He never looks for treasure , though , for though some of his party have made rather rich discoveries , he takes no interest in them . 
What is he after then ? asked Mr. Titus . 
No one knows , and he won't tell . 
But whatever it is he has never found it yet . 
Always , when he comes back , unsuccessful , from a trip to the interior and goes back North with us , he will remark that he has not the right directions . 
That he must seek again . 
Back he comes next season , as full of hope as before , but only to be disappointed . 
Each time he goes to a new place in the mountains where he digs and delves , so members of the parties he hires tell me , but with no success . 
He carries with him something in a small iron box , and , whatever this is , he consults it from time to time . 
It may be directions for finding whatever he is after . 
But there seems to be something wrong . 
This is quite a mystery , remarked Tom . 
But Professor Bumper is a fine man . 
I have known him for years . 
Yes , I guess it does . 
But who can have done it ? That was a question neither could answer . 
But a close questioning of the steward on duty near the foreigner's cabin at the time disclosed the fact that Pinto had been ill in his berth all that day . 
Well , unless the bomb fell from some passing airship , I don't see how it got on deck , said Tom with a shake of his head . 
And I'm sure no airship passed over us . 
They had kept the matter secret , not telling even Mr. Damon , for they feared the eccentric man would make a fuss and alarm the whole vessel . 
So Mr. Damon , occasionally blessing his necktie or his shoe laces , played chess with his elderly gentleman friend and was perfectly happy . 
That Professor Bumper not only had kept his promise about not mentioning the bomb , but that he had forgotten all about it , was evident a day or two after the happening . 
Tom and Mr. Titus passed him on deck , and bowed cordially . 
The professor returned the salutation , but looked at the two in a puzzled sort of fashion . 
I beg your pardon , he remarked , but your faces are familiar , though I cannot recall your names . 
Haven't I seen you before ? You have , said Tom , with a smile . 
You saved our lives from a bomb the other day . 
Oh , yes ! So I did ! So I did ! exclaimed Professor Bumper . 
I felt sure I had seen you before . 
Are you all right ? Yes . 
There haven't been any more bombs thrown at us , the contractor said . 
By the way , Professor Bumper , I understand you are quite a traveler in the Andes , in the vicinity of Lima . 
Yes , I have been there , admitted the bald headed scientist in guarded tones . 
Rimac Rimac , murmured the professor , looking sharply at the contractor . 
Digging a tunnel there ? Why are you doing that ? and he seemed to resent the idea . 
Why , the Peruvian government engaged me to do it to connect the two railroad lines , was the answer . 
Do you know anything about the place ? Not so much as I hope to later on , was the unexpected answer . 
As it happens I am going to Rimac , and I may visit your tunnel . 
I wish you would , returned Mr. Titus . 
Later on , in their stateroom , the contractor remarked to the young inventor Sort of queer isn't it ? What ? asked Tom . 
His not remembering us ? No , though that was odd . 
But I suppose he is forgetful , or pretends to be . 
I mean it's queer he is going to Rimac . 
What do you mean ? asked Tom . 
Maybe the professor is a geologist , suggested Tom , and he may want to get some samples of that hard rock . 
Maybe , admitted Mr. Titus . 
But I shall keep my eyes on him all the same . 
I'm not going to have any strangers , who happen to be around when bombs drop near us , get into my tunnel . 
I think you're wrong to doubt Professor Bumper , Tom said . 
But no sooner had the professor and Mr. Damon caught sight of each other than there was a look of mutual recognition . 
Bless my fountain pen ! cried the eccentric man . 
If it isn't my old friend ! Mr. Damon ! cried the professor . 
I am delighted to see you again . 
I did not know you were on board ! Nor I you . 
Bless my apple dumpling ! Are you still after those Peruvian antiquities ? I am , Mr. Damon . 
But I did not know you were acquainted with Mr. Swift . 
Oh , Tom and I are old friends . 
Professor Bumper saved the lives of Mr. Titus and myself , said Tom , or at least he saved us from severe injury by a bomb . 
Pray do not mention it , my friends , put in the professor , casually . 
Of course he did not mean it just that way . 
Then , naturally , Mr. Damon had to be told all about the bomb for the first time , and his wonder was great . 
He blessed everything he could think of . 
And to think it should be my old friend , Professor Bumper , who saved you , said the odd man to Tom and Mr. Titus later that day . 
Do you know him well ? asked Mr. Titus . 
Our drug concern sells him many chemicals for his experiments . 
Well , if you know him I guess he can't be what I thought he was , the contractor went on . 
I'm glad to know it . 
Why is he going to the Andes ? Oh , for many years he has been interested in collecting Peruvian antiquities . 
He has a certain theory in regard to something or other about their ancient civilization , but just what it is I have , at this moment , forgotten . 
Only I know you can thoroughly trust Professor Bumper , for a finer man never lived , though he is a bit absent minded at times . 
But you will like him very much . 
Thus the last lingering doubt of Professor Bumper was removed . 
Mr. Damon told something of how the scientist had been honored by degrees from many colleges and was regarded as an authority on Peruvian matters . 
But who had placed the bomb on deck remained a mystery . 
In due time Callao , the seaport of Lima , was reached and our friends disembarked . 
Tom saw to the unloading of the explosive , which was to be sent direct to the tunnel at Rimac . 
Mr. Titus , Tom and Mr. Damon would remain in Lima a day or so . 
Professor Bumper disembarked with our friends , and stopped at the same hotel . 
Tom kept a lookout for Senor Pinto , but did not see him , and concluded that the Spaniard was ill , and would be carried ashore on a stretcher , perhaps . 
Lima , the principal city and capital of Peru , proved an interesting place . 
It was about eight miles inland and was built on an arid plain about five hundred feet above sea level . 
Yet , though it was on what might be termed a desert , the place , by means of irrigation , had been made into a beauty spot . 
Tom found the older part of the city was laid out with mathematical regularity , each street crossing the other at right angles . 
But in the new portions there was not this adherence to straightness . 
Bless my transfer ! Why , they have electric cars here ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , catching sight of one on the line between Callao and the capital . 
What did you think they'd have ? asked Mr. Titus , elephants or camels ? I I didn't just know , was the answer . 
Oh , you'll find a deal of civilization here , the contractor said . 
Of course much of the population is negro or Indian , but they are often rich and able to buy what they want . 
It is a branch of that road , together with a branch of the one running to Ancon , that I am to connect with a tunnel . 
Tom found some beautiful churches and cathedrals in Lima , and spent some time visiting them . 
He and Mr. Damon also visited , in the outskirts , the tobacco , cocoa and other factories . 
As Tom , Mr. Damon , Koku , and Mr. Titus were going to the railroad station they saw Professor Bumper also leaving the hotel . 
I believe our roads lie together for a time , said the bald headed scientist , and , if you have no objections , I will accompany you . 
Come , and welcome ! exclaimed Mr. Titus , all his suspicions now gone . 
And it may be that you will be able to help me , the scientist went on . 
Help you how ? asked Tom . 
I will tell you when we reach the Andes , was the mysterious answer . 
Friends , he said , as he gazed up at the towering cliffs and crags , I am searching for the lost city of Pelone , located somewhere in these mountains . 
Will you help me to find it ? Chapter XII The Tunnel Mr. Damon , of the three who heard Professor Bumper make this statement , showed the least sign of astonishment . 
It would have been more correct to say that he showed none at all . 
But Tom could not restrain himself . 
The lost city of Pelone ! he exclaimed . 
Is it here in these mountains ? asked Mr. Titus . 
I have reason to hope that it is , went on the professor . 
The golden tablets are very vague , but I have tried many locations , and now I am about to try here . 
I hope I shall succeed . 
At any rate , I shall have agreeable company , which has not always been my luck on my previous expeditions seeking to find the lost city . 
Oh , Professor , are you still on that quest ? asked Mr. Damon , in a matter of fact tone . 
Yes , Mr. Damon , I am . 
Somehow I feel that I shall be successful here . 
Did you know Professor Bumper was searching for a lost city of the Andes ? asked Tom , of his eccentric friend . 
Why yes , answered Mr. Damon . 
He has been searching for years to locate it . 
Why didn't you tell us ? inquired Mr. Titus . 
Why , I never thought of it . 
Bless my memorandum book ! it never occurred to me . 
I did not think you would be interested . 
Tell them your story , Professor Bumper . 
Just now I must see to my equipment . 
And though Tom and Mr. Titus were both anxious to hear about the lost city , they , too , had much to do to get ready for the trip into the interior . 
The beginning of the tunnel under one of the smaller of the ranges of the Andes lay two days journey from the end of the railroad line . 
And the trip must be made on mules , with llamas as beasts of burden , transporting the powder and other supplies . 
We'll only need to take enough food with us for the two days , said Mr. Titus . 
We have a regular camp at the tunnel mouth , and my brother has supplies of grub and other things constantly coming in . 
We also have shacks to live in but on this trip we will use tents , as the weather at this season is fine . 
Professor Bumper had made up his own exploring party , consisting of himself and three native Indian diggers with their picks and shovels . 
They were to do whatever excavating he decided was necessary to locate the hidden city . 
The giant was almost as much a source of wonder to the Peruvians as he had been on board the ship . 
And he was a great help , too . 
For some of the Indians were under sized , and could not lift the heavy boxes and packages to the backs of the beasts of burden . 
The way was rough but they took their time to it , for the trail was an ascending one . 
Condors , said Mr. Titus , when his attention was called to them . 
Some of them are powerful birds , and they sometimes pick up a sheep and make off with it , though usually their food consists of carrion . 
They went into camp before the sun went down , for it grew dark soon after sunset , and they wanted to be prepared . 
I wish I could explain about it , began the scientist . 
For years I have dreamed of finding it , but always I have been disappointed . 
Now , perhaps , my luck may change . 
Do you think it may be near here ? asked Mr. Titus , motioning toward the dark and frowning peaks all about them . 
The signs are most encouraging . 
In brief , the story of the lost city of Pelone is this . 
Thousands of years ago in fact I do not know how many there existed somewhere in Peru an ancient city that was the centre of civilization for this region . 
Older it was than the civilization of the Mexicans the Montezumas older and more cultured . 
It is many years since I became interested in Peruvian antiquities , and then I had no idea of the lost city . 
But some of the antiques I picked up contained in their inscriptions references to Pelone . 
At first I conceived this to be a sort of god , a deity , or perhaps a powerful ruler . 
Then I got on the track more closely . 
I found traces of an ancient language and writings , different from anything else in the world . 
I managed to construct an alphabet and to read some of the documents . 
From them I learned that Pelone was a city situated in some fertile valley of the Andes . 
It had existed for thousands of years it was the seat of learning and culture . 
Much light would be thrown on the lives of the people who lived in Peru before the present races inhabited it , if I could but locate Pelone . 
Then I came across two golden tablets on which were graven the information that Pelone had utterly vanished . 
The golden tablets did not say . 
They simply stated the fact that Pelone was lost , and one sentence read 'He who shall find it again shall be richly rewarded . 
But it is not for that that I seek . 
It is that I may give to the world the treasures it must contain the treasures of an ancient civilization . 
And how do you think the city disappeared ? asked Mr. Titus . 
But I am certain the city once existed , and it may exist yet , though it may be in dust covered ruins . 
That is what I seek to find . 
See ! Here are the tablets telling about it . 
I got them from an old Peruvian grave . 
He took from a box two thin sheets of yellow metal . 
They were covered with curious marks , but Tom and the others could make nothing of them . 
Only Professor Bumper was able to decipher them . 
And that is the story of the lost city of Pelone as much as I know , he said . 
For years I have sought it . 
If I can find it I shall be famous , for I shall have added to human knowledge . 
If the people of that city wrote on golden tablets , the yellow metal must have been plentiful , commented Mr. Titus . 
You might strike a rich mine . 
I have no use for riches , said the professor . 
Well , I have , the contractor said , with a laugh . 
That's why I'm putting through this tunnel . 
And if my brother and I don't do it we'll be in a bad way financially . 
We have struck traces of gold , but not in paying quantities . 
I should like to see this lost city of yours , Professor Bumper . 
You may have all the gold , if I am allowed to keep the antiquities we find , stipulated the scientist . 
Then you will help me in my search ? As much as we can spare time for from the tunnel work , promised Mr. Titus . 
I'll instruct my men to keep their eyes open for any sign of ancient writings on the rocks we blast out . 
Thank you , said the professor . 
The night passed uneventfully enough , if one excepts the mosquitoes which seemed to get through the nets , making life miserable for all . 
And once Tom thought he heard gruntings in the bush back of the tent , which noises might , he imagined , have been caused by a bear . 
Toward morning he heard an unearthly screech in the woods , and one of the Indians , tending the fire , grunted out a word which meant pumas . 
I can see it isn't going to be dull here , Tom mused , as he turned over and tried to sleep . 
Breakfast made them all feel better , and they set off on the final stage of their journey . 
If all goes well we'll be at the tunnel entrance and camp to night , said the contractor . 
This second half of the trip is the roughest . 
There was no need of saying that , for it was perfectly evident . 
The trail was a most precarious one , and only a mule or llama could have traveled it . 
The mules were most sure footed , but , as it was , one slipped , and came near falling over a cliff . 
As Tom rode nearer the cliff he could make out around it groups of rude buildings , covered with corrugated iron . 
There was quite a settlement it seemed . 
Then , in the face of the cliff there showed something black like a blot of ink , though more regular in outline . 
The mouth of the tunnel , said Mr. Titus to Tom . 
Come on over to the office and I'll introduce you to my brother . 
I guess he will be glad we've arrived . 
Tom dismounted from his mule , an example followed by the others . 
Bless my court plaster ! cried Mr. Damon . 
What's that ? A blast , answered Mr. Titus . 
But I never knew them to set off one so late before . 
Chapter XIII Tom's Explosive Something has happened ! cried Mr. Titus as he ran forward , followed by Tom , Mr. Damon and Koku . 
Professor Bumper started with them , but on the way he saw a curious bit of rock which he stopped to pick up and examine . 
At the entrance of the tunnel , from which came rushing dirt stained and powder blackened men , Mr. Titus was met by a man who seemed to be in authority . 
Hello , Job ! he cried . 
We're in trouble ! What's the matter ? was the question . 
This is my brother Walter , he said . 
This is Tom Swift and Mr. Damon , thus hurriedly he introduced them . 
What happened , Walter ? Premature blast . 
Somebody is working against us ! Never mind that now , cried Job Titus . 
We must see to the poor fellows who are hurt . 
I guess there aren't many , his brother said . 
They were on their way out when the charge went off . 
Tom saw that the tunnel was lighted with incandescent lamps , suspended here and there from the rocky roof or sides . 
The electric lights were supplied with current from a dynamo run by a gasoline engine . 
Where is it , Serato ? Where was the blast ? asked Walter Titus , of a tall Indian , who seemed to be in some authority . 
Back at second turn , was the answer , in fairly good English . 
He means stretchers , translated Job . 
A good fellow , but easily scared . 
Mind the turn ! called Job Titus , who was ahead of Tom and Mr. Damon . 
Tom found it so , for he slipped over some pieces of rock , and would have fallen had not Koku held him up . 
Thanks , gasped Tom , as on he ran . 
A little later he came to a place where a cluster of electric lights gave better illumination , and he could see it was there that the damage had been done . 
A number of men were lying on the dirt and rock floor of the tunnel , and some of them were bleeding . 
Others were staggering about as though shocked or stunned . 
We must get the injured ones out of here ! cried Walter Titus . 
Where are the men with stretchers ? I sint that Spalapeen Serato for thim ! broke in a voice , rich in Irish brogue . 
But he's thot stupid he might think I was after sindin' him fer wather ! No , Tim . 
Serato is after the stretchers all right , said Walter . 
We passed him on the way . 
That's Tim Sullivan , our Irish foreman , though he has only a few of his own kind to boss , explained Job Titus in a whisper . 
had now recovered from their shock , or fright , and began to help the Titus brothers , Tom , Mr. Damon and Koku in looking after the injured . 
Of these there were five , only two of whom were , seemingly , seriously hurt . 
And it was well he did so , for one man was in need of an immediate operation , which was performed at the rude hospital the contractors maintained at the tunnel mouth . 
The other man died as Koku was carrying him out , but the giant had saved one life . 
Among a large body of men some were always falling ill or getting hurt , and in that wild country a doctor had to be kept near at hand . 
Tom , Mr. Damon and the two contractors sat in the main office and talked things over . 
Koku was eating supper , though the others had finished . 
but , naturally , it took Koku twice as long as any one else . 
Professor Bumper was busy transcribing material in his note book . 
Well , I'm glad you've come back , Job , said his brother . 
Things have been going at sixes and sevens here since you went to get some new kind of blasting powder . 
By the way , I hope you got it , for we are practically at a standstill . 
Oh , I got it all right some of Tom Swift's best specially made for us . 
And , better still , I've brought Tom back with me . 
Well , I'm glad he's here . 
Now what about this accident to day ? went on Job . 
Well , as I said , it's the third this week . 
All of them seemed to be premature blasts . 
But I've sent for some of the fuses used . 
I'm going to get at the bottom of this . 
Here is Sullivan with them now . 
Come in , Tim , he called , as the Irishman knocked at the door . 
Are they the fuses used in the blasts ? Walter asked . 
An' they mostly burn five minutes , which is plenty of time fer all th' min t' git out of danger . 
Only this time th' fuse didn't seem to burn more than a minute , an' I lit it meself . 
Let's see how long they burn now , suggested Job . 
One of the longer fuses was lighted . 
It spluttered and smoked , while the contractors timed it with their watches . 
Four minutes ! exclaimed Job . 
That's queer , and they're the regular ten minute length . 
I wonder what this means . 
He took up another fuse , and examined it closely . 
These aren't our fuses at all . 
They're another make , and much more rapid in burning . 
No wonder you've been having premature blasts . 
They go off in about half the time they should . 
I can't understhand thot ! said Tim , thoughtfully . 
I keep all the fuses locked up , and only take thim out when I need thim . 
Then somebody has been at your box , Tim , and they took out our regular fuses and put in these quicker ones . 
It's a game to make trouble for us among our men , and to damage the tunnel . 
Bless my rubber boots ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Who would do a thing like that ? Our rivals , perhaps , though I do not like to accuse any man on such small evidence , said Walter . 
But we must adopt new measures . 
And be very careful of the fuses , said Job . 
Thot's what I will ! declared Tim . 
I'll put th' supply in a new place . 
No wonder there was blasts before th' min could git out th' way ! Bad cess t' th' imps thot did this ! and he banged his big fist down on the table . 
Since the trouble began a guard had been always posted around the tunnel entrance and surrounding buildings , and this night the patrol was doubled . 
Tom , Mr. Damon and the two Titus brothers sat up quite late , talking over plans and ideas . 
Professor Bumper went to bed early , as he said he was going to set off before sunrise to make a search for the lost city . 
I regard him as more or less of a visionary , said Mr. Job Titus but he seems a harmless gentleman , and we'll do all we can to help him . 
Surely , agreed his brother . 
The tunnel was being driven straight into the face of one of the smaller ranges of the Andes Mountains . 
On the site of the tunnel , which was two days' mule travel east from Rimac , the Titus brothers had assembled their heavy machinery . 
There were engines , boilers , dynamos , motors , diamond drills , steam shovels and a miniature railway , with mules as the motive power . 
Their quarters were some distance from the native section . 
But Titus Brothers had a large experience in engineering matters in wild and desolate countries , and they knew how to be as comfortable as possible . 
This was a few days after the arrival of our friends . 
Well , we'll try what some of my explosive will do , said Tom , when he had finished the examination . 
I don't claim it will be as successful as the sample blast we set off at Shopton , but we'll do our best . 
Holes were drilled in the face of the rock , and several charges of the new explosive tamped in . 
Wires were attached to the fuses , which were of a new kind , and warning was given to clear the tunnel . 
The wires ran out to the mouth of the horizontal shaft and Tom , holding the switch in his hand made ready to set off the blast . 
Are they all out ? he asked Tim Sullivan , who had emerged , herding the Indian laborers before him . 
Tim insisted on being the last man to seek safety when an explosion was to take place . 
All ready , sor , answered the foreman . 
Here she goes ! cried Tom , as his fingers closed the circuit . 
It is a well known fact that the fumes of dynamite and other giant powders will often produce severe headaches , and even illness . 
Tom's explosive contained a certain percentage of dynamite , and he knew its ill effects . 
Stretched prone , or crouching on the ground , there was little danger , as the fumes , being lighter than air , rose . 
The yellow haze soon drifted away , and it was safe to rise . 
Can't tell until we go in and take a look , replied the young inventor . 
It won't be safe to go in for a while yet , though . 
That smoke will hang in there a long time . 
I didn't think there'd be a back draft . 
There is , for we've often had the same trouble with our shots , Walter Titus said . 
It's a queer thing and we haven't been able to get at the bottom of it . 
That's right , agreed his brother . 
We've looked for some opening , or natural shaft , but haven't been able to find it . 
Sometimes we shoot off a charge and everything goes well , the smoke disappears in a few minutes . 
Again it will all blow out this way and we lose half a day waiting for the air to clear . 
There's a hidden shaft , or natural chimney , I'm sure , but we can't find it . 
Thot blast didn't make much racket , commented Tim Sullivan . 
I doubt thot much rock come down . 
An' thot's not sayin' anythin' ag'in yer powder , lad , he went on to Tom . 
Oh , that's all right , Tom Swift replied , with a laugh . 
My explosive doesn't work by sound . 
It has lots of power , but it doesn't produce much concussion . 
We've often made more noise with our blasts , confirmed Job Titus , but I can't say much for our results . 
In about an hour , however , Tim Sullivan , venturing part way in , sniffed the air and called It's all right , byes ! Air's clear . 
Now come on ! They all hurried eagerly into the shaft , Mr. Damon stumbling along at Tom's side , as anxious as the lad himself . 
Well , it blew some as far back as here , said Walter Titus . 
I hope so , Tom remarked . 
But the sensations soon passed . 
They came to a stop as the face of the cliff loomed into view in the glare of a searchlight which Job Titus switched on . 
Then a murmur of wonder came from every one , save from Tom Swift . 
He , modestly , kept silent . 
Bless my breakfast orange ! cried Mr. Damon . 
What a big hole ! There was a great gash blown in the hard rock which had acted as a bar to the further progress of the tunnel . 
That's doing the work ! cried Job Titus . 
It beats any two blasts we ever set off , declared his brother . 
Much fine ! muttered the Peruvian foreman , Serato . 
It's a lalapaloosa , lad ! Thot's what it is ! enthusiastically exclaimed Tim Sullivan . 
Now the black beggars will have some rock to shovel ! Come on there , Serato , git yer lazy imps t' work cartin' this stuff away . 
We've got a man on th' job now in this new powder of Tom Swift's . 
Tom's first blast was very successful , and enough rock was loosed to keep the laborers busy for a week . 
The contractors were more than satisfied . 
At this rate we'll finish ahead of time , and earn a premium , said Job to his brother . 
You didn't make any mistake in appealing to Tom Swift . 
But I wonder if Blakeson Grinder have given up trying to get the job away from us ? I don't know . 
We must watch out for Waddington . 
That bomb on the vessel had a funny look , even if it was not meant to kill Tom or me . 
No , I guess it wouldn't be safe . 
But a week went by without any manifestation having been made by the rival tunnel contractors . 
But I am positive that somewhere in this vicinity is the lost Peruvian city of Pelone , he said . 
But we have been over many mountains , and in more valleys , without finding a trace of the ancient civilization I feel sure once flourished here . 
There are no relics of a lost race not so much as an arrow or spear head . 
But , somehow or other , I feel that I shall find the lost city . 
And when I do I shall be famous ! Mr. Damon and I will help you all we can , Tom said . 
As soon as I get ready the next blast I'll have a little time to myself , and we will go with you on a trip or two . 
I shall be very glad to have you , the bald headed scientist remarked . 
Then , as the services of the young inventor would not be needed for a week or more , he decided to go on a little trip with Professor Bumper . 
I'll come too , said Mr. Damon . 
Accordingly , preparations having been made to spend a week in camp in the forests of the Andes , Tom and his party set off one morning . 
Only Mr. Damon stipulated that he wanted to reach a certain village , and they planned to include that on their route . 
Tom Swift took his electric rifle with him , and with it he was able to bring down a couple of deer which formed a welcome addition to the camp fare . 
The rifle was a source of great wonder to the Peruvians . 
They were familiar with ordinary firearms , and some of them possessed old fashioned guns . 
But Tom's electric weapon , which made not a sound , but killed with the swiftness of light , was awesome to them . 
But something seemed to be the matter . 
The Indian chief was indifferent to the interpreted demands of Mr. Damon , and that gentleman , though he blessed any number of animate and inanimate objects , seemed to make no impression . 
No got men to gather bark , him say , translated the interpreter . 
Hasn't got any men ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
Why , look at all the lazy beggars around the village . 
This was true enough , for there were any number of able bodied Indians lolling in the shade . 
Him say him no got , repeated the translator , doggedly . 
Bless my rat trap ! gasped Mr. Damon . 
A mad dog ! Shouts and cries arose from among the Indians . 
Women screamed , and those who had children gathered them up in their arms to run to shelter . 
Me git him ! cried Koku , jumping forward . 
No , Wait ! exclaimed Tom Swift . 
You can kill the dog all right , Koku , he said , but a scratch from his tooth might be fatal . 
I'll fix him ! Snatching his electric rifle from the Indian bearer who carried it , Tom took quick aim . 
The little one , aware that something had happened , turned and saw the stretched out form of its enemy . 
Then , sobbing and crying , it ran toward its mother who had just heard the news . 
They began hurrying out along the forest paths . 
Where are they going ? asked Tom . 
Plenty get for him , and he pointed to Mr. Damon . 
They no like stay in village . 
T'ink yo' got lightning in yo' pocket , and he pointed to the electric rifle . 
Oh , I see ! laughed Tom . 
They think I'm a sort of wizard . 
Well , so I am . 
Tell them if they don't get lots of quinine bark I'll have to stay here until all the mad dogs are shot . 
The interpreter translated , and when the chief had ceased replying , Tom and the others were told Plenty bark git . 
Yo' go away with yo' lightning . 
Well , it's a good thing I keeled over that dog , Tom said . 
It was the best object lesson I could give them . 
And from then on there was no more trouble in this district about getting a supply of the medicinal bark . 
A week passed and Professor Bumper was no nearer finding the lost city than he had been at first . 
Reluctantly , he returned to the tunnel camp to get more provisions . 
And then I'll start out again , he said . 
We'll go with you some other time , promised Tom . 
But now I expect I'll have to get another blast ready . 
He found the debris brought down by the second one all removed , and in a few days , preparations for exploding more of the powder were under way . 
Many holes had been drilled in the face of the cliff of hard rock , and the charges tamped in . 
Electric wires connected them , and they were run out to the tunnel mouth where the switch was located . 
Get the men out , Tim , said Tom , when all was ready . 
But in a little while Tim came running back with a queer look on his face . 
What's the matter ? asked Tom . 
Chapter XV Frightened Indians There must be some mistake , said Tom , wondering if the Irish foreman were given to joking . 
Yet he did not seem that kind of man . 
And I'm sure the last shift hasn't come out . 
By this time Koku , Mr. Damon and Walter Titus had come up to find out what the trouble was . 
The min have disappeared that's all there is to it ! Tim said . 
Perhaps they have missed their way the lights may have gone out , and they might have wandered into some abandoned cutting , suggested Tom . 
There aren't any abandoned cuttin's , declared Tim . 
It's a straight bore , not a shaft of any kind . 
I've looked everywhere , and th' min aren't there I tell ye ! Are the lights going ? asked Job . 
You might have missed them in the dark , Tim . 
The lights are going all right , Mr. Titus , said the young man in charge of the electrical arrangements . 
The dynamo hasn't been stopped to day . 
Come on , we'll have a look , proposed Walter Titus . 
There must be some mistake . 
Hold back the blast , Tom . 
All right , and the young inventor disconnected the electrical detonating switch . 
I'll come along and have a look too , he added . 
Don't let anybody meddle with the wires , Jack , he said to the young Englishman who was in charge of the dynamo . 
Into the dimly lit tunnel advanced the party of investigators , with Tim Sullivan in the lead . 
Not a man could I find ! he said , murmuring to himself . 
Not a man ! An' I mind th' time in Oireland whin th' little people made vanish a whole village like this , jist bekase ould Mike Maguire uprooted a bed of shamrocks . 
That's enough of your superstitions , Tim , warned Job Titus . 
If some of the other Indians hear you go on this way they'll desert as they did once before . 
Did they do that ? asked Tom . 
Yes , we had trouble that way when we first began the work . 
The place here was a howling wilderness then , and there were lots of pumas around . 
A puma is a small sized lion , you know , not specially dangerous unless cornered . 
Well , some of the men had their families here with them , and a couple of children disappeared . 
They departed bag and baggage . 
What did you do ? Well , we organized ourselves and our white helpers into a hunting party and killed a lot of the beasts . 
There wasn't any big one though . 
And what had become of the children ? They weren't eaten at all . 
They had wandered off into the woods , and some natives found them and took care of them . 
Eventually , they got back home . 
But it was a long while before we could persuade the Indians to come back . 
Since then we haven't had any trouble , and I don't want Tim , with his superstitious fancies , to start any . 
But the min are gone ! insisted the Irish foreman , who had listened to this story as he and the others walked along . 
We'll find them , declared Mr. Titus . 
The party reached the rocky heading , in the face of which the powerful explosive had been placed , and not an Indian was in sight . 
Nor , as far as could be told , was there any side niche , or blind shaft , in which they could be hiding . 
It is queer , admitted Walter Titus . 
Where can the men have gone ? That's what I want to know ! exclaimed Tim . 
Are you sure they didn't come out the mouth of the tunnel ? asked Job Titus . 
I was there all the while , rigging up the fires . 
We'll call the roll , and check up , decided Job Titus . 
The Indian foreman had not been in the tunnel with the last shift of men , having left them to Tim Sullivan to get out in time . 
The Indian foreman was called from his supper in the shack where he had his headquarters , and the roll of workmen was called . 
Ten men were missing , and when this fact became known there were uneasy looks among the others . 
Well , said Mr. Titus , after a pause . 
The men are either in the tunnel or out of it . 
If they're in we don't dare set off the blast , and if they're out they'll show up , sooner or later , for supper . 
I never knew any of 'em to miss a meal . 
I'm inclined to think that the men came out and neither you , nor any one else , saw them . 
They ran away for reasons of their own . 
We'll take another look in the morning , and then set off the blast . 
There being no trace of the men in the tunnel it was deemed safe to explode the charges . 
This was done , a great amount of rock being loosened . 
The laborers hung back when the orders were given to go in and clean up . 
There were mutterings among them . 
What's the matter ? asked Job Titus . 
Them afraid , answered Serato . 
Them say devil in tunnel eat um up ! No go in . 
They won't go in , eh ? cried Tim Sullivan . 
With a howl they rushed into the tunnel , and were soon loading rock into the dump cars . 
This habit on the part of the Peruvian workers was not unusual . 
In fact , the Titus brothers had to maintain a sort of permanent employment agency in Lima to replace the deserters . 
But they were used to this . 
The difference was that the Indians used to vanish from camp at night , and invariably after pay day . 
And that's the only reason I have a slight doubt that they walked out of the tunnel , said Job Titus . 
There was money due em . 
They never came out of the front entrance of the tunnel , said Tom . 
But there was no way of proving his assertion . 
The third blast , while not as successful as the second in the amount of rock loosened , was better than the first , and made a big advance in the tunnel progress . 
Tom was beginning to understand the nature of the mountain into which the big shaft was being driven and he learned how better to apply the force of his explosive . 
That was the work which he had charge of the placing of the giant powder so it would do the most effective work . 
Then , when the fumes from the blast had cleared away , in would surge the workmen to clear away the debris . 
But the latter brutes will not carry a heavy load , lying down and refusing to get up if they are overburdened , whereas one has yet to find a mule's limit . 
Mr. Damon , by paying a sort of bribe , disguised under the name tax , secured the help of Peruvian officials so he had no trouble on that score . 
Koku was in his element . 
He liked a wild life and Peru was much more like the country of giants where Tom had found him , than any place the big man had since visited . 
Koku had great strength and wanted to use it , and after a week or so of idleness he persuaded Tom to let him go in the tunnel to work . 
The giant was made a sort of foreman under Tim , and the two became great friends . 
The only trouble with Koku was that he would do a thing himself instead of letting his men do it , as , of course , all proper foremen should do . 
Professor Bumper kept on with his search for the lost city of Pelone . 
Back and forth he wandered among the wild Andes Mountains , now hopeful that he was on the right trail , and again in despair . 
Tom and Mr. Damon went with him once more for a week , and though they enjoyed the trip , for the professor was a delightful companion , there were no results . 
But the scientist would not give up . 
Tom Swift was kept busy looking after the shipments of the explosive , and arranging for the blasts . 
He had letters from Ned Newton in which news of Shopton was given , and Mr. Swift wrote occasionally . 
But the mails in the wilderness of the Andes were few and far between . 
Tom wrote a letter of explanation to Mr. Nestor , in addition to the wireless he had sent regarding the box labeled dynamite , but he got no answer . 
Nor were his letters to Mary answered . 
I wonder what's wrong ? Tom mused . 
It can't be that they think I did that on purpose . 
And even if Mr. Nestor is angry at me for something that wasn't my fault , Mary ought to write . 
But she did not , and Tom grew a bit despondent as the days went by and no word came . 
I suppose they might be offended because I left Rad to do up that package instead of attending to it myself , thought Tom . 
Well , I did make a mistake there , but I didn't mean to . 
I never thought about Eradicate's not reading . 
I'll make him go to night school as soon as I get back . 
But maybe I'll never get another chance to send Mary anything . 
If I do , I'll not let Rad deliver it that's sure . 
The feeling of alarm engendered among the Indians by the disappearance of their ten fellow workers seemed to have disappeared . 
There were rumors that some of the mysterious ten had been seen in distant villages and settlements , but the Titus brothers could not confirm this . 
I don't think anything serious happened to them , anyhow , said Job Titus one day . 
And I should hate to think our work was responsible for harm to any one . 
Your rivals don't seem to be doing much to hamper you , observed Tom . 
I guess Waddington gave up . 
I won't be too sure of that , said Mr. Titus . 
Why , what has happened ? Tom asked . 
Well , nothing down here that is , directly but we are meeting with trouble on the financial end . 
The Peruvian government is holding back payments . 
Why is that ? They claim we are not as far advanced as we ought to be . 
Aren't you ? Practically , yes . 
There was no set limit of work to be done for the intermediate payments . 
We bonded ourselves to have the tunnel done at a certain date . 
If we fail , we lose a large sum , and if we get it done ahead of time we get a big premium . 
There was no question as to completing a certain amount of footage before we received certain payments . 
But Senor Belasdo , the government representative , claims that we will not be done in time , and therefore he is holding back money due us . 
I'm sure the rival contractors have set him up to this , because he was always decent to us before . 
Another matter , too , makes me suspicious . 
We have tried to raise money in New York to tide us over while the government is holding up our funds here . 
But our New York office is meeting with difficulties . 
We are doing all we can to fight them , of course , and maybe we'll beat out our rivals yet . 
I'm sure some one is on the ground here trying to make trouble among our workers . 
I never knew so many men to leave , one after another . 
It's keeping the employment agency in Lima busy supplying us with new workers . 
And so many of them are unskilled . 
They aren't able to do half the work of the old men , and poor Tim Sullivan is in despair . 
Tom thought for a moment . 
Then he said Mr. Titus , with your permission , I'll see if I can find out about this for you . 
Find out what , Tom ? What is causing the men to leave . 
I don't believe it's the scare about the ten missing ones . 
Nor do I. That's past and gone . 
But how are you going to get at the bottom of it ? By keeping watch . 
I've got nothing to do now for the next week . 
We've just set off a big blast , and I've got the powder for the following one all ready . 
The men will be busy for some time getting out the broken rock . 
Now what I propose to do is to go in the tunnel and work among them until I can learn something . 
I can understand the language pretty well now , though I can't speak much of it . 
I'll go in the tunnel every day and find out what's going on . 
He won't know me , Tom said . 
This is how I'll work it . 
I'll go off with Professor Bumper the next time he starts on one of his weekly expeditions into the woods . 
But I won't go far until I turn around and come back . 
I'll adopt some sort of disguise , and I'll apply to you for work . 
You can tell Tim to put me on . 
You might let him into the secret , but no one else . 
A few days later Tom was seen departing with Professor Bumper into the interior , presumably to help look for the lost city . 
It was not thought wise to take the giant into the secret . 
Then one day , shortly after Professor Bumper and Tom had disappeared into the forest , a ragged and unkempt white man applied at the tunnel camp for work . 
And so Tom Swift began his watch . 
Chapter XVII The Condor Left to himself , with only the rather silent gang of Peruvian Indians as company , Tom Swift looked about him . 
They did not talk much , murmuring among themselves now and then , and little of what they said was intelligible to Tom . 
The tunnel was not new to him . 
Much of his time in the past month had been spent in its black depths , illuminated , more or less , by the string of incandescent lights . 
What I want to find , mused Tom , as he walked to and fro , is the place where those Indians disappeared . 
For I'm positive they got away through some hole in this tunnel . 
They never came out the main entrance . 
For it must be well hidden to have escaped observation so long , Tom decided . 
And it must be a natural shaft , or hole , for we are boring into native rock , and it isn't likely that these Indians ever tried to make a tunnel here . 
There must be some natural fissure communicating with the outside of the mountain , in a place where no one would see the men coming out . 
But though Tom believed this it was another matter to demonstrate his belief . 
There were cracks and fissures , it is true , but they were all superficial ones , as Tom ascertained by poking a long pole up into them . 
No getting out that way , he said , as he met with failure after failure . 
Once , while thus engaged , he saw Serato , the Indian foreman looking narrowly at him , and Serato said something in his own language which Tom could not understand . 
But just then along came Tim Sullivan , who , grasping the situation , exclaimed Thot's all roight , now , Serri , me lad ! for thus he contracted the Indian's name . 
Thot's a new helper I have , a broth of a bye , an' yez kin kape yer hands off him . 
He's takin' orders from me ! Um ! grunted the Indian . 
Wha for he fish in tunnel roof ? for Tom's pole was one like those the Indians used when , on off days , they emulated Izaak Walton . 
Fishin' is it ! exclaimed Tim . 
Begorra 'tis flyin' fish he's after I'm thinkin' . 
Lave him alone though , Serri ! I'm his boss ! Um ! grunted the Indian again , as he moved off into the farther darkness . 
Be careful , Tom , whispered the Irishman , when the native had gone . 
These black imps is mighty suspicious . 
Maybe thot fellah had a hand in th' disappearances hisself . 
He may get a percentage on all new hands that are hired . 
Tom kept on with his search , always hoping he might find some hidden means of getting out of the tunnel . 
But as the days went by , and he discovered nothing , he began to despair . 
The queer thing about it , mused Tom , is what has become of the ten men . 
Then , said Tom , you can depend on it the men are all right , and their relatives know it . 
I wonder how it would do to make inquiries at that end ? Question some of the relatives . 
Bless my hat hand ! exclaimed Mr. Damon , who was at the conference . 
I never thought of that . 
I'll do it for you . 
The odd man had gotten his quinine gathering business well under way now , and he had some spare time . 
So , with an interpreter who could be trusted , he went to the native village whence had come nearly all of the ten missing men . 
But though Mr. Damon found some of their relatives , the latter , with shrugs of their shoulders , declared they had seen nothing of the ones sought . 
And they didn't seem to worry much , either , reported Mr. Damon . 
Then we can depend on it , remarked Tom , that the men are all right and their relatives know it . 
But who was at the bottom of it ? I can't figure out where Blakeson Grinder come in , said Job Titus . 
They would have an object in crippling us , but they seem to be working from the financial end , trying to make us fail there . 
I haven't seen any of their sneaking agents around here lately , and as for Waddington he seems to have stayed up North . 
Tom resumed his vigil in the tunnel , poking here and there , but with little success . 
Well , I'm stumped ! Tom admitted , the day when he was to come on duty for the last time as a pretended foreman . 
I've hunted all over , and I can't find any secret passage . 
The heat , his weariness and the monotonous clank clank of a water pump near by , and the equally monotonous thump of the lumps of rocks in the cars made Tom drowsy . 
Almost before he knew it he was asleep . 
What suddenly awakened him he could not tell . 
Perhaps it was some influence on the brain cells , as when a vivid dream causes us to start up from slumber , or it may have been a voice . 
For certainly Tom heard a voice , he declared afterward . 
As he roused up he found himself staring at the rocky wall of the tunnel . 
And with the appearance of these twinkling points of light the face of Waddington seemed to fade away , as might a vision in a dream . 
Bless my salt mackerel , as Mr. Damon would say ! cried Tom . 
What have I discovered ? He rubbed his head where he had struck it , and then passed his hand before his eyes , to make sure he was awake . 
But the vision , if vision it was , had vanished , and he saw only the bare rock wall . 
However , the echo of the voice remained in his ears , and , looking down toward the tunnel floor Tom saw Serato , the Indian foreman . 
Were you speaking to me ? asked Tom , for the man understood and spoke English fairly well . 
I not know you there ! and the fore man seemed startled at seeing Tom . 
Clearly he was in a fright . 
You were speaking ! insisted Tom . 
No , sar ! The man shook his head . 
To some one up there ! went on the young inventor , waving his hand toward the spot where he had seen the face in the rock . 
Me speak to roof ? No , sar ! Serato laughed . 
Tom did not know what to believe . 
You hear me tell um lazy man to much hurry , the Indian went on . 
Me not know you sleep there , sar ! Oh , all right , Tom said , recollecting that he must keep up his disguise . 
Yes , sar , and the foreman hurried on , with a backward glance over his shoulder . 
Now was I dreaming or not ? thought Tom . 
I'm going to have a look at that place though , where I saw Waddington's face . 
But there was only solid rock . 
It must have been a dream , Tom concluded . 
I've been thinking too much about this business . 
I'll have to give up . 
I can't solve the mystery of the missing men . 
The next day , much disappointed , he resumed his own character as explosive expert , and prepared for another blast . 
The net result of his watch was that he became suspicious of Serato , and so informed the Titus Brothers . 
Oh , but you're mistaken , said Job We have had him for years , on other contracts in Peru , and we trust him . 
Well , I don't , Tom said , but he had to let it go at that . 
Another blast was set off , but it was not very successful . 
The rock seems to be getting harder the farther in we go , commented Walter Titus . 
We're not up to where we ought to be . 
I'll have to look into it , answered Tom . 
I may have to change the powder mixture . 
Guess I'll go up the mountain a way , and see if there are any outcroppings of rock there that would give me an idea of what lies underneath . 
He located , by computation , the spot beneath which the end of the tunnel then was , and began collecting samples of the outcropping ledge . 
He wanted to analyze these pieces of stone later . 
Koku was with him , and , giving the giant a bag of stones to carry , Tom walked on rather idly . 
It was a wild and desolate region in which he found himself on the side of the mountain . 
The woman was familiar with the appearance of the white men , and nodded in friendly fashion . 
Tom passed on , thinking of many things , when he was suddenly startled by a scream from the woman . 
It was a scream of such terror and agony that , for the moment , Tom was stunned into inactivity . 
Then , as he turned , he saw a great condor sweeping down out of the air , the wind fairly whistling through the big , outstretched wings . 
Can the bird be going to attack the woman ? But this was not the object of the condor . 
The woman herb gatherer had brought her infant with her on her quest , and had laid it down on a bed of soft grass while she worked . 
And it was this infant , wrapped as Tom afterward saw in a piece of deer skin , at which the condor was aiming . 
Master shoot ! cried Koku , pointing to the down sweeping bird . 
You bet I'll shoot ! cried Tom . 
Throwing his electric rifle to his shoulder , Tom pressed the switch trigger . 
The unseen but powerful force shot straight at the condor . 
The electric rifle , a full account of which was given in the volume entitled Tom Swift and His Electric Rifle , had done its work well . 
With a scream , in which was mingled a cry of thanks , the woman threw himself on the sleeping child . 
The condor bad fallen dead not three paces from it . 
Tom Swift had shot just in time . 
Chapter XVIII The Indian Strike Snatching up in her arms the now awakened child , the woman gazed for a moment into its face , which she covered with kisses . 
Then the herb gatherer looked over to the dead , limp body of the great condor , and from thence to Tom . 
In another moment the woman had rushed forward , and knelt at the feet of the young inventor . 
But he gathered that the woman was thanking him for having saved the child . 
Oh , that's all right , Tom said , rather embarrassed by the hand kissing . 
It was an easy shot . 
An Indian came bursting through the bushes , evidently the woman's husband by the manner in which she greeted him , and Tom recognized the newcomer as one of the tunnel workers . 
The man took off his hat and approached Tom , genuflecting as he might have done in church . 
She say you save baby from condor , the man said in his halting English . 
She t'ank you me , I t'ank you . 
Bird see babe in deer skin t'ink um dead animal . 
Maybe so bird carry baby off , drop um on sharp stone , baby smile no more . 
You have our lives , senor ! We do anyt'ing we can for you . 
Thanks , said Tom , easily . 
I'm glad I happened to be around . 
I supposed condors only went for things dead , but I reckon , as you say , it mistook the baby in the deer skin for a dead animal . 
And I guess it might have carried your little one off , or at least lifted it up , and then it might have dropped it far enough to have killed it . 
It sure is a big bird , and Tom strolled over to look at what he had bagged . 
The condor of the Andes is the largest bird of prey in existence . 
One in the Bronx Zoo , in New York , with his wings spread out , measured a little short of ten feet from tip to tip . 
Measure ten feet out on the ground and then imagine a bird with that wing stretch . 
This same condor in the park was made angry by a boy throwing a feather boa up into the air outside the cage . 
The condor raised himself from the ground , and hurled himself against the heavy wire netting so that the whole , big cage shook . 
And the breeze caused by the flapping wings blew off the hats of several spectators . 
So powerful was the air force from the condor's wings that it reminded one of the current caused when standing behind the propellers of an aeroplane in motion . 
The condor rarely attacks living persons or animals , though it has been known to carry off big sheep when driven by hunger . 
It was one of these animals Tom Swift had shot with his electric rifle . 
We do anyt'ing you want , the man gratefully repeated . 
Well , I've got about all I want , Tom said . 
But if you could tell me where those ten missing men are , and how they got out of the tunnel , I'd be obliged to you . 
The woman did not seem to comprehend Tom's talk , but the man did . 
He started , and fear seemed to come over him . 
Me I I can not tell , he murmured . 
No , I don't suppose you can , said Tom , musingly . 
Well , it doesn't matter , I guess I'll have to cross it off my books . 
And perhaps only the electric rifle could have killed quickly enough to prevent the baby's being injured in some way by the big bird , even though it was dying . 
Master heap good shot ! exclaimed Koku , admiringly . 
The tunnel work went on , though not so well as when Tom's explosive was first used . 
The rock was indeed getting harder and was not so easily shattered . 
Tom made tests of the pieces he had obtained from the outcropping ledge on the mountain where he had shot the condor , and decided to make a change in the powder . 
Shipments were regularly received from Shop ton , Mr. Swift keeping things in progress there . 
Mr. Damon's business was going on satisfactorily , and he lent what aid he could to Tom . 
As for Professor Bumper he kept on with his search for the lost city of Pelone , but with no success . 
It may be that they are descendants from the Pelonians , suggested the professor . 
Tom was too busy to go , but Mr. Damon went . 
The expedition had all sorts of trouble , losing its way and getting into a swamp from which escape was not easy . 
Then , too , the strange Indians proved hostile , and the professor and his party could not get nearer than the boundaries of the valley . 
But the difficulties and the hostile attitude of these natives only makes me surer that I am on the right track , said Mr. Bumper . 
Tom was busy over a problem in explosives one day when he saw Tim Sullivan hurrying into the office of the two brothers . 
I hope there hasn't been another premature blast , mused Tom . 
But if there had been I think I'd have heard it . 
He hastened out to see Job and Walter Titus in excited conversation with Tim . 
They didn't come out , an' thot's all there is to it , the foreman was saying . 
I sint thim in mesilf , and they worked until it was time t' set off th' blast . 
That's what I mean , asserted the Irishman . 
It can't be ! declared Walter . 
Look for yersilf ! returned Tim . 
No , sir ! Nobody kime hout , sir ! the Englishman declared . 
Hi 'aven't been away frim 'ere , sir , not since hi wint on duty , sir . 
An' no one kime out , no , sir ! We've got to stop this ! declared Job Titus . 
I should say so ! agreed his brother . 
With Tom and Tim the Titus brothers went into the tunnel . 
It was deserted , and not a trace of the men could be found . 
Their tools were where they had been dropped , but of the men not a sign . 
There must be some secret way out , declared Tom . 
Then we'll find it , asserted the brothers . 
But not a crack or fissure , large enough to permit the passage of a child , much less a man , could be found . 
Well , I give up ! cried Walter Titus in despair . 
There must be witchcraft at work here ! Nonsense ! exclaimed his brother . 
It's more likely the craft of Blakeson Grinder , with Waddington helping them . 
Well , if a human agency made these twenty five men disappear , prove it ! insisted Walter . 
His brother did not know what to say . 
Well , go on with the work , was Job's final conclusion . 
We'll have one of the white men constantly in the tunnel after this whenever a gang is working . 
We won't leave the natives alone even long enough to go to get a fuse . 
They'll be under constant supervision . 
The tunnel was opened for work , but there were no workers . 
The morning after the investigation , when the starting whistle blew there was no line of Indians ready to file into the big , black hole . 
The huts where they slept were deserted . 
A strange silence brooded over the tunnel camp . 
Where are the men , Serato ? asked Tom of the Indian foreman . 
What you call a hit . 
You mean a strike ? asked Tom . 
Sure strike hit all um same . 
No more work um 'fraid ! Chapter XIX A Woman Tells Well , if this isn't the limit ! cried Torn Swift . 
As if we didn't have trouble enough without a strike on our hands ! I should say yes ! chimed in Job Titus . 
Do you mean that the men won't work any more ? asked his brother of the native foreman . 
Sure , no more work um much 'fraid big devil in tunnel carry um off an' eat um . 
Well , I don't know that I blame 'em for being a bit frightened , commented Job . 
It is a queer proceeding how twenty five men can disappear like that . 
Where have the men gone , Serato ? Gone home . 
Go on hit strike same like white men . 
They waited until pay day to go on strike , commented the bookkeeper , a youth about Tom's age . 
The men had been paid off the day before , and usually on such occasions many of them remained away , celebrating in the nearest village . 
But this time all had left , and evidently did not intend to come back . 
We'll have to get a new gang , said Job . 
And it's going to delay us just at the wrong time . 
Well , there's no help for it . 
You and Tim go and see how many men you can gather . 
Tell them we'll give them a sol a week more if they do good work . 
Half a dollar a day more will look mighty big to them , went on the contractor . 
Get the men , Serato , and we'll raise your wages two sols a week . 
The eyes of the Indian gleamed , and he went off , saying . 
Um try , but men much 'fraid . 
Indians no come for one sol , mebby not for two , he said . 
Then I'll try ! cried Job . 
I'll make our old ones come back , for they'll be the best . 
Accompanied by his brother and Tom he went to the various Indian villages , including the one whence most of the men now on strike had come . 
The fifteen missing ones were not found , though , as before , their relatives , and , in some cases , their families , did not seem alarmed . 
But the men who had gone on strike were found lolling about their cabins and huts , smoking and taking their ease , and no amount of persuasion could induce them to return . 
Some of them said they had worked long enough and were tired , needing a rest . 
Others declared they had money enough and did not want more . 
Even two more sols a week would not induce them to return . 
And many were frankly afraid . 
They said so , declaring that if they went back to the tunnel some unknown devil might carry them off under the earth . 
Job Titus and his brother , who could speak the language fairly well , tried to argue against this . 
They declared the tunnel was perfectly safe . 
But one native worker , who had been the best in the gang , asked Where um men go ? The contractors could not answer . 
It's a trick , declared Walter . 
Our rivals have induced the men to go on strike in order to hamper us with the work so they'll get the job . 
But the closest inquiry failed to prove this statement . 
If Blakeson Grinder , or any of their agents , had a hand in the strike they covered their operations well . 
Though diligent inquiry was made , no trace of Waddington , or any other tool , could be found . 
Tom , who had some sort of suspicion of the bearded man on the steamer , tried to find him , even taking a trip in to Lima , but without avail . 
The tunnel work was at a standstill , for there was little use in setting off blasts if there were no men to remove the resulting piles of debris . 
So , though Tom was ready with some specially powerful explosive , he could not use it . 
Efforts were made to get laborers from another section of the country , but without effect . 
The contractors heard of a big force of Italians who had finished work on a railroad about a hundred miles away , and they were offered places in the tunnel . 
But they would not come . 
Well , we may as well give up , said Walter , despondently , to his brother one day . 
We'll never get the tunnel done on time now . 
We still have a margin of safety , declared job . 
If we could get the men inside of a couple of weeks , and if Tom's new powder rips out more rock , we'll finish in time . 
Yes , but there are too many ifs . 
We may as well admit we've failed . 
I'll never do that ! What will you do ? But Job did not know . 
The tunnel camp was a deserted place . 
Come on , Koku , we'll go hunting , said Tom one day . 
There's no use hanging around here , and some venison wouldn't go bad on the table . 
I'll come , too , said Mr. Damon . 
I haven't anything to do . 
Then , after stalking it a little way , he managed to kill it with the electric rifle . 
Koku hoisted the animal to his big shoulders , and , as this would provide meat enough for some time , Tom started back for camp . 
As he and Mr. Damon , with Koku in the rear , passed through a little clearing , they saw , on the far side , a native hut . 
And from it rushed a woman , who approached Tom , casting herself on her knees , while she pressed his free hand to her head . 
Bless my scarf pin ! exclaimed Mr. Damon . 
What does this mean , Tom ? Oh , this is the mother of the child I saved from the condor , said Tom . 
Every time she sees me she thanks me all over again . 
How is the baby ? he asked in the Indian tongue , for he was a fair master of it by now . 
Will the mighty hunter permit himself to enter my miserable hovel and partake of some milk and cakes ? What do you say , Mr. Damon ? Tom asked . 
She's clean and neat , and she makes a drink of goat's milk that isn't bad . 
She bakes some kind of meal cakes that are good , too . 
All right , Tom , I'll do as you say . 
Men no work tunnel ? she inquired . 
No , they've all skipped out vamoosed . 
The woman looked around , as though in fear . 
Then she approached Tom closely and whispered No spirit in tunnel bad man ! What ! cried Tom , almost jumping off his stool . 
What do you mean , Masni ? Me tell mighty hunter , she went on , lowering her voice still more . 
My man he no want to tell , he 'fraid , but I tell . 
Mighty hunter save Vashni , and she looked toward the baby . 
Me help friends of mighty hunter . 
Bad man in tunnel no spirit ! Men go . 
Spirit no take um bad man take um . 
Where are they now ? asked Tom . 
What is going to happen , Tom Swift ? I don't know , was the answer , but something sure is in the wind . 
I guess I shot better than I knew when I killed that condor . 
Or rather , the woman gave the sign to Tom , ignoring the others , who , naturally , would not be left behind . 
Come , she said , in her strange Indian tongue , which Tom could interpret well enough for himself now . 
But where are we going , Masni ? he asked . 
This isn't the way to the tunnel . 
Not go to tunnel now , was her answer . 
But which men do you mean , Masni ? inquired Tom . 
The lost men , or the bad ones , who are making trouble for us ? Which men do you mean ? Masni only shook her head , and murmured Me show . 
Probably Tom's attempt to talk her language was not sufficiently clear to her . 
My man he good man , she said , coming to a pause on the rough trail after a climb which was not easy . 
Yes , I know he is , Tom said . 
But he went on a strike with the others , Masni . 
He go on a 'hit , as Serato calls it , and Tom laughed . 
My man he good man but he 'fraid , said the wife . 
He want to tell you of bad mans , but he 'fraid . 
You save my baby , I no 'fraid . 
Oh , I see , said Tom . 
Your husband would have given away the secret , only he's afraid of the bad men . 
He likes me , too ? Sure ! Masni exclaimed . 
He want tell , but 'fraid . 
He go 'way , I tell . 
She , however , had been braver . 
Something is going to happen , said Tom Swift . 
I feel it in my bones ! Bless my porous plaster ! cried Mr. Damon . 
I hope it isn't anything serious . 
We'll see , Tom went on . 
They resumed their journey up the mountain trail . 
It wound in and out in a region none of them had before visited . 
Though it could not be far from the tunnel , it was almost a strange country to Tom . 
Suddenly Masni stopped in a narrow gorge where the walls of rock rose high on either hand . 
She seemed looking for something . 
Her sharp , black eyes scanned the cliff and then with an exclamation of satisfaction she approached a certain place . 
With a quick motion she pulled aside a mass of tangled vines , and disclosed a path leading down through a V shaped crack in the cliff . 
Mans down there , she said . 
For a moment Tom hesitated . 
Then he was ashamed of his suspicion , for the honest black face , smiling at him , showed no trace of guile . 
You go you see lost men , the woman urged . 
Come on ! cried Tom . 
I believe we're on the track of the mystery ! He led the way , followed by Mr. Damon , while Koku came next and then Masni . 
It could be no trap since she entered it herself . 
The path widened , but not much . 
There was only room for one to walk at a time . 
The trail twisted and turned , and Tom was wondering how far it led , when , from behind him , came the cry of the woman Watch now no fall down . 
Tom halted around a sharp turn , and stood transfixed at the sight which met his gaze . 
He found himself looking out through a crack in the face of a sheer stone cliff that went straight down for a hundred feet or more to a green carpeted valley . 
Tom was standing in a narrow cleft of rock the same rock through which they had made their way . 
And at the foot of the cliff was a little encampment of Indians . 
There were a dozen huts , and wandering about them , or sitting in the shade , were a score or more of Indians . 
There men from tunnel , said Masni , and , as he looked , wondering , Tom saw some of the workers he knew . 
One especially , was a laborer who walked with a peculiar limp . 
The missing men ! gasped the young inventor . 
Bless my almanac ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Where ? Here , answered Tom . 
If you squeeze past me you can see them . 
How did they get here ? asked the odd man , as he looked down in the little valley where the missing ones were sequestered . 
That's what we've got to find out , Tom said . 
At any rate here they are , and they seem to be enjoying life while we've been worrying as to what had become of them . 
How did they get here , Masni ? Me show you . 
Wait until I take another look , said Tom . 
Be careful they don't see you , cautioned Mr , Damon . 
The cleft is screened by bushes . 
Tom looked down once more on the group of men who had so mysteriously disappeared . 
The little valley stretched out away from the face of the cliff , through which , by means of the crack , or cleft in it , Tom and the others had come . 
Tom looked down the wall of rock . 
It was as smooth as the side of a building , and offered no means of getting down or up . 
Doubtless there was an easier entrance to the valley on the other side . 
It was like looking down into some vast hall through an upper window or from a balcony . 
And those men have been in hiding , or been hidden here , ever since they disappeared from the tunnel , said Mr. Damon . 
It doesn't look as though they were detained by force , Tom remarked . 
I think they are being paid to stay away . 
How did they get here , Masni ? Me show you . 
Come ! They went back along the trail that led through the split in the rock , until they had come to the place where the natural curtain of vines concealed the entrance . 
Tom took particular notice of this place so he would know it again . 
Then Masni led them over the mountain , and this time Tom saw that they were approaching the tunnel . 
He recognized some places where he had taken samples of rock from the outcropping to test the strength of his explosive . 
Reaching a certain wild and desolate place , Masni made a signal of caution . 
She seemed to be listening intently . 
Then , as if satisfied there was no danger , she parted some bushes and glided in , motioning the others to follow . 
Now I wonder what's up , Tom mused . 
He and the others were soon informed . 
Masni stopped in front of a pile of brush . 
With a few vigorous motions of her arms she swept it aside and revealed a smooth slab of rock . 
In the centre was what seemed to be a block of metal Masni placed her foot on this and pressed heavily . 
And those watching saw a strange thing . 
The slab of rock tilted to one side , as if on a pivot , revealing a square opening which seemed to lead through solid stone . 
It's the tunnel ! he cried . 
I can look right clown into the tunnel . 
It's the incandescent lights I see . 
I can look right at the ledge of rock where I kept watch that day , and where I saw where I saw the face of Waddington ! he cried . 
It wasn't a dream after all . 
This is a shaft connecting with the tunnel . 
We didn't discover it because this rock fits right in the opening in the roof . 
It must have been there all the while , and some blast brought it to light . 
Is this how the men got out , or were taken out of the tunnel , Masni ? Tom asked . 
This how , said the Indian woman . 
See , here rope ! She pawed aside a mound of earth , and disclosed a rope buried there , a rope knotted at intervals . 
I see how it is ! cried Tom . 
Some one interested , Waddington probably , who knew about this old secret shaft going down into the earth , used it as soon as our blasting was opened that far . 
They got the men out this way , and hid them in the secret valley . 
But what for ? cried Mr. Damon . 
Our rivals finding they couldn't stop us in any other way have taken our laborers away from us . 
Bless my meal ticket ! It does look like that ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Of course that's the secret ! cried Tom . 
Blakeson Grinder , or some of their tools probably the bearded man or Waddington found out about this shaft which led down into our tunnel . 
Those Indians can climb like cats . 
Once the ten were out the shaft was closed with the rock , and the ten men taken off to the valley to be secreted there . 
The same was done with the next fifteen , and , I suppose , if the strike hadn't come , more of our workers would have been induced to leave in this way . 
They're probably being better paid than when earning their wages and their relatives must know where they are , and also be given a bonus to keep still . 
No wonder they didn't make a fuss . 
And no wonder we couldn't find any opening in the tunnel roof . 
This rock must fit in as smoothly as a secret drawer in the kind of old desk where missing wills are found in stories . 
You say you saw Waddington , or the bearded man ? asked Mr. Damon . 
At the time , replied Tom , I thought it was a dream . 
Now I know it wasn't . 
He must have opened the shaft just as I awakened from a doze . 
He saw me and closed it again . 
He may have been getting ready then to take off more of our men , so as to scare the others . 
Well , we've found out the trick . 
And what are you going to do next ? asked Mr. Dam n . 
Get those missing men back . 
That will break the hoodoo , and the others will come back to work . 
Then we'll get on the trail of Wadding ton , or Blakeson Grinder , and put a stop to this business . 
We know their secret now . 
You mean to get the men out of the secret valley , Tom ? Yes . 
There must be some other way into it than down the rock where we were . 
How about it , Masni ? and he inquired as to the valley . 
The Indian woman gave Tom to understand that there was another entrance . 
Well , close up this shaft now before some one sees us at it the bearded man , for example , Tom suggested . 
He took another look down into the tunnel , which was now deserted on account of the strike , and then Masni pressed on the mechanism that worked the stone . 
She showed Tom how to do it . 
Just a counter balanced rock operating on the same principle as does a window , Tom explained , after a brief examination . 
Probably some of the old Indian tribes made this shaft for ceremonial purposes . 
They never dreamed we would drive a tunnel along at the bottom of it . 
The shaft probably opened into a cave , and one of our blasts made it part of the tunnel . 
Well , this is part of the secret , anyhow . 
Much obliged to you , Masni ! The Indian woman had indeed revealed valuable information . 
They covered the secret rock with brush , as it had been , hid the rope and came away . 
But Tom knew how to find the place again . 
Events moved rapidly from then on . 
The Titus brothers were more than astonished when Tom told them what he had learned . 
The sequestered men , taken completely by surprise , tried to bolt when they saw that they were discovered , and then , shamefacedly enough , admitted their part in the trick . 
They would not , however , reveal who had helped them escape from the tunnel . 
Threats and promises of rewards were alike unavailing , but Tom and his employers knew well enough who it was . 
The tunnel workers seemed rather tired of living in comparative luxury and idleness , and agreed to come back to their labors . 
They packed up their few belongings , mostly cooking pots and pans , and marched out of the valley to the village at Rimac . 
And so the strike was broken . 
The reappearance of the missing men , in better health and spirits than when they went away , acted like magic . 
The other men , who had missed their wages , crowded back into the shaft , and the sounds of picks and shovels were heard again in the tunnel . 
Whether the missing ones told the real story , or whether they made up some tale to account for their absence , Tom and his friends could not learn . 
, nor any representative of Blakeson Grinder appear . 
The work on the tunnel was resumed as if nothing had happened . 
A search of the neighborhood , and diligent inquiries , failed to disclose the presence of any of the plotters . 
And then , as if Fate was not making it hard enough for the tunnel contractors , they encountered more trouble . 
It was after Tom had set off a big blast that Tim Sullivan , after inspecting what had happened , came out to ask . 
I soy , Mr. Swift , why didn't yez use more powder ? More powder ! cried Tom . 
Why , this is the most I have ever set off . 
Then somethin's wrong , sor . 
Fer there's only a little rock down . 
Come an' see fer yersilf . 
As the foreman had said , the effect of the blast was small indeed . 
Only a little rock had been shaled off . 
Tom picked up some of this and took it outside for examination . 
Why , it's harder than the hardest flint we've found yet , he said . 
The powder didn't make any impression on it at all . 
I'll have to use terrific charges . 
This was done , but with little better effect . 
The explosive , powerful as it was , ate only a little way into the rock . 
Blast after blast had the same poor effect . 
This won't do , said Job Titus , despairingly , one day . 
We aren't making any progress at all . 
There's a half mile of this rock , according to my calculations , and at this rate we'll be six months getting through it . 
But the results had not been at all what he had hoped for . 
What's to be done , Tom ? repeated the contractor . 
Well , Mr. Titus , was the answer , the only thing I see to do is to make a new explosive . 
Can you do it , Tom ? The reply was characteristic . 
And in the days that followed , Tom began work on a new line . 
He had brought from Shopton with him much of the needful apparatus , and he found he could obtain in Lima what he lacked . 
A message to his father brought the reply that the new ingredients Tom needed would be shipped . 
The kind of explosive we need to rend that very hard rock , the young inventor explained to the Titus brothers , is one that works slowly . 
I thought all explosions had to be as quick as a flash , said Walter . 
Well , in a sense , they do . 
Yet we have quick burning and slow burning powders , the same as we have fuses . 
A quick burning explosive is all right in soft rock , or in soil with rock and earth mingled . 
But in rock that is harder than flint if you use a quick explosive , only the outer surface of the rock will be scaled off . 
Now that is the kind of explosive I want one that will deal a succession of constant blows at the hard rock instead of one great big blast . 
Can you make it , Tom ? Well , I don't know . 
I'll do the best I can . 
From then on Tom was busy with his experiments . 
Work on the tunnel did not cease while he was searching for a new explosive . 
There was plenty of the old explosive left and charges of this were set off as fast as holes could be drilled to receive it . 
But comparatively little was accomplished . 
Sometimes more rock would be loosed than at others , and the native laborers , now seemingly perfectly contented , would be kept busy . 
Again , when a heavy blast would be set off hardly a dozen dump cars could be filled . 
But the work must go on . 
Already the time limit was getting perilously close , and the contractors did not doubt that their rivals were only waiting for a chance to step in and take their places . 
Nothing more had been seen or heard of the bearded man , Waddington , or Blakeson Grinder . 
But that the rival firm had not given up was evidenced by the efforts made in New York to cripple , financially , the firm in which Tom was interested . 
In fact , at one time the Titus brothers were so tied up that they could not get money enough to pay their men . 
But Tom cabled his father , who was quite wealthy , and Mr. Swift loaned the contractors enough to proceed with until they could dispose of some securities . 
Tom kept on with his powder experiments . 
The natives seemed to have taken kindly to the eccentric man , or perhaps it was the reputation of Tom Swift and his electric rifle that induced them to work hard . 
It must not be supposed that Professor Bumper was idle all this while . 
He came and went at odd times , accompanied by his little retinue of Indians , a guide and a native cook . 
He would come back to the tunnel camp , where he made his headquarters , travel stained , worn and weary , with disappointment showing on his face . 
No luck , he would report . 
The hidden city of Pelone is still lost . 
Then he would retire to his tent , to pour over his note books , and make a new translation of the inscription on the golden plates . 
In a day or so , refreshed and rested , he would prepare for another start . 
I'll find it this time , surely ! he would exclaim , as he marched off up the mountain trail . 
I have heard of a new valley , never before visited by a white man , in which there are some old ruins . 
I'm sure they must be those of Pelone . 
But in a week or so he would come back , worn out and discouraged again . 
The ruins were only those of a native village , he would say . 
No trace of an ancient civilization there . 
The professor took little or no interest in the tunnel , though he expressed the hope that Tom and his friends would be successful . 
But industrial pursuits had no charm for the scientist . 
He only lived to find the hidden city which was to make him famous . 
He heard the story of the queer shaft leading down into the bore under the mountain , and , for a time , hoped that might be some clue to the lost Pelone . 
There seemed to be no further trouble among the Indian tunnel workers . 
Those who had disappeared who had , seemingly , gone willingly up the knotted rope to hide themselves in the valley kept on with their work . 
If they told their fellows why and where they had gone , the others gave no sign . 
The evil spirits of the tunnel had been exorcised , and there was now peace , save for the blasts that were set off every so often . 
And at last he announced I think I have it ! Have you ? Good ! cried Job Titus . 
Yes , Tom went on , I've got a mixture here that seems to give just the effect I want . 
I tried it on some small pieces of rock , and now I want to test it on some large chunks . 
Have you brought any down lately ? Yes , we have some big slabs in there . 
Tom held the electric switch in his hand , and was about to press it . 
This explosive works differently from any other , he explained . 
When the charge is fired there is not instantly a detonation and a bursting . 
The powder burns slowly and generates an immense amount of gas . 
It is this gas , accumulating in the cracks and crevices of the rock , that I hope will burst and disintegrate it . 
Of course , an explosion eventually follows , as you will see . 
Here she goes ! Tom pressed the switch and , as he did so , there was a cry of alarm from Mr. Damon . 
Bless my safety match , Tom ! cried the old man . 
Koku looked toward the hut , in front of which the young inventor and the others stood , waving their hands to him and shouting . 
Get up ! Get up ! cried Tom , frantically . 
The powder is going off , Koku ! Can't you stop it ? asked Job Titus . 
The electric current has already ignited the charge . 
Only that it's slow burning it would have been fired long ago . 
Get up , Koku ! But the giant did not seem to understand . 
He waved his hand in friendly greeting to Tom and the others , who dared not approach closer to warn him , for the explosion would occur any second now . 
Then Mr. Damon had an inspiration . 
Call him to come to you , Tom ! shouted the odd man . 
He always comes to you in a hurry , you know . 
Call him ! Tom acted on the suggestion at once . 
Here , Koku ! he cried . 
Come here , I want you ! Kelos ! This last was a word in the giant's own language , meaning hurry . 
And Koku knew when Tom used that word that there was need of haste . 
So , though he had sat down , evidently to take his ease after a long tramp through the woods , Koku sprang up to obey his master's bidding . 
And , as he did so , something happened . 
The first spark from the fuse , ignited by the electric current , had reached the slow burning powder . 
There was a crackle of flame , and a dull rumble . 
Koku sprang up from the big stone as though shot . 
Koku got away only just in time , for when he was half way between the group of his friends and the big rock , the utmost force of the explosion was felt . 
It was not so very loud , but the power of it made the earth tremble . 
The rock seemed to heave itself into the air , and when it settled back it was seen to be broken up into many pieces . 
I guess something happened that time ! The rock is broken up finer than any like it we tried to shatter before . 
I think I've got the mixture just right ! Bless my handkerchief ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Think of what might have happened to Koku if he had been sitting there . 
He got away just in time . 
The giant looked thoughtfully back toward the place of the experimental blast . 
Master , him do that ? he asked . 
I did , Tom replied . 
But I didn't think you'd walk out of the woods , just at the wrong time , and sit down on that rock . 
Um , murmured the giant . 
Koku he he Oh , by golly ! he yelled . 
And then , as if realizing what he had escaped , and being incapable of expressing it , the giant with a yell ran into the tunnel and stayed there for some time . 
We'll have to hustle , said Job Titus . 
We haven't much of our contract time left , and I have reason to believe the Peruvian government will not give any extension . 
It is our firm that will pocket the loss . 
Well , we'll try not to have that happen , said Tom , with a smile . 
If you're going to use bigger charges of this new explosive , Tom , won't more rock be brought down ? asked Walter Titus . 
Then we'll need more laborers to bring it out of the tunnel . 
Yes , we could use more I guess . 
The faster the blasted rock is removed , the quicker I can put in new charges . 
I'll get more men , decided the contractor . 
There won't be any trouble now that the hoodoo of the missing workers is solved . 
I'll tell Serato to scare up all his dusky brethren he can find , and we'll offer a bonus for good work . 
The Indian foreman readily agreed to get more laborers . 
And get some big ones , Serato , urged Job Titus . 
Um want mans like him ? asked the Indian , nodding toward the giant . 
and had calmly set him to one side . 
Sure , get all the giants you can , Tom said . 
But I guess there aren't any in Peru . 
Say , he's a whopper all right ! exclaimed Tom . 
But he isn't as big or as strong as Koku . 
He comes pretty near it , said Job Titus . 
With a dozen like him we'd finish the tunnel on time , thanks to your explosive . 
Lamos , the Indian giant , was not quite as large as Koku . 
That is , he was not as tall , but he was broader of shoulder . 
And as to the strength of the two , well , it was destined to be tried out in a startling fashion . 
In about a week Tom was ready with his first charges of the new explosive . 
The extra Indians were on hand , including Lamos , and great hopes of fast progress were held by the contractors . 
The charge was fired and a great mass of broken rock brought down inside the tunnel . 
That's tearing it up ! cried Job Titus , when the fumes had blown away , the secret shaft having been opened to facilitate this . 
A few more shots like that and we'll be through the strata of hard rock . 
The Indians , Koku and Lamos doing their share of the work , were rushed in to clear away the debris , so another charge might be fired as soon as possible . 
This would be in a day or so . 
The contract time was getting uncomfortably close . 
Blast after blast was set off , and good progress was made . 
But instead of half a mile of the extra hard rock the contractors found it would be nearer three quarters . 
Tom was about to make a remark when Tim Sullivan came running out of the tunnel , his face showing fright and wonder . 
What's up now , I wonder , said Mr. Titus . 
More men missing ? Quick ! Come quick ! cried the Irishman . 
Thim two giants is fightin' in there , an' they'll tear th' tunnel apart if we don't stop 'em . 
They had not gone far before they heard the murmur of many voices , and mingled with that were roarings like those of wild beasts . 
That's thim ! cried Tim . 
They're chawin' each other up ! Koku and that Indian giant fighting ! cried Tom . 
What's it all about ? Don't ask me ! shouted Tim . 
They've been on bad terms iver since they met . 
This was true enough , for one giant was jealous of the other's power , and they were continually trying feats of strength against one another . 
Probably this had culminated in a fight , Tom concluded . 
And it will be some fight ! mused the young inventor . 
Hurrying on , Tom and his companions came upon a strange and not altogether pleasant sight . 
With their arms locked about one another , they swayed this way and that a struggle between two Titans . 
Of nearly the same height and bigness , it was a wrestling match such as had never been seen before . 
Had it been merely a friendly test of strength it would have been good to look upon . 
But it needed only a glance into the faces of either giant to show that it was a struggle in deadly earnest . 
Back and forth they reeled over the rocky floor of the tunnel , bones and sinews cracking . 
For a few minutes Tom and his friends watched , fascinated . 
Then they saw Koku slip , while Lamos bent him farther toward the earth . 
The Indian giant raised his big fist , and Tom saw in it a rock , which the big man was about to bring down on Koku's head . 
Look out , Koku ! yelled Tom . 
Tom's giant slid to one side only just in time , for the blow descended , catching him on his muscular shoulder where it only raised a bruise . 
And then Koku gathered himself for a mighty effort . 
His face flamed with rage at the unfair trick . 
Bless my bath sponge ! cried Mr. Damon . 
This is awful ! They must stop ! said Job Titus . 
We can't have them fighting like this . 
It is bad for the others . 
If it were in fun it would be all right , but they are in deadly earnest . 
They must stop ! Koku , stop ! called Tom . 
You must not fight any more ! No fight more ! gasped the giant , through his clenched teeth . 
This end fight ! With a mighty effort he broke the hold of Lamos' arms . 
Up over his head he raised that mass of muscle , bone and flesh , squirming and wriggling , trying in vain to save itself . 
Up and up Koku raised Lamos as the murmur of those watching grew to a shout of amazement and terror . 
Never had the like been seen in that land for generations . 
Up and up one giant raised the other . 
Then calling out something in his native tongue Koku hurled the other from him , clear across the tunnel and up against the opposite rocky wall . 
The murmuring died to frightened whispers as Lamos fell in a shapeless heap on the floor . 
Ah ! breathed Koku , stretching himself , and extending his brawny arms . 
Fight all over , Master . 
Yes , so it seems , Koku , said Tom , solemnly , but you have killed him . 
Shame on you ! and he spoke bitterly . 
Job Titus had hurried over to the fallen giant . 
He isn't dead , he called , but I guess he won't wrestle or fight any more . 
And him no more try to blow up tunnel , either , said Koku in his hoarse voice . 
Me fix him ! No more him take powder , and make tunnel all bust . 
What do you mean , Koku ? asked Tom . 
Is that why you fought him ? Did he try to wreck the tunnel ? So him done , Master . 
But Koku see Koku stop . 
Be jabbers an' I wouldn't wonder but what he was right ! cried Tim Sullivan , excitedly . 
I did see that beggar . 
and he pointed to Lamos , who was slowly crawling away , at the chist where I kape th' powder , but I thought nothin' of it at th' time . 
What did he try t' do , Koku ? Then the giant explained in his own language , Tom Swift translating , for Koku spoke English but indifferently well . 
Koku saw him and stopped him , and then the fight began . 
We only saw the end . 
Bless my shoe string ! gasped Mr. Damon . 
And a terrible end it was . 
Will Lamos die ? I don't think so , answered Job Titus . 
But he will be a cripple for life . 
Not only would he have wrecked the tunnel , but he would have killed many of our men had he set off that blast . 
Koku saved them , though it seems too bad he had to fight to do it . 
An investigation showed that Koku spoke truly . 
The charge , all ready to set off , was found where he had knocked it from the hand of Lamos . 
And so Tom's giant saved the day . 
Lamos was sent back to his own village , a broken and humbled giant . 
It was part of the plot , said Job Titus when the usual blast had been set off that day , with not very good results . 
This giant was sent to us by our rivals . 
They wanted him to hamper our work , for they see we have a chance to finish on time . 
I think that foreman , Serato , is in the plot . 
We'll fire him ! This was done , though the Indian protested his innocence . 
But he could not be trusted . 
We can't take any chances , said Job Titus . 
Our time is too nearly up . 
In fact I'm afraid we won't finish on time as it is . 
There is too much of that hard rock to cut through . 
There's only one thing to do , said Tom , after an investigation . 
As you say , there is more of that hard rock than we calculated on . 
To try to blast and take it out in the ordinary way will be useless . 
We must try desperate means . 
What is that ? asked Walter Titus . 
We must set off the biggest blast we can with safety . 
We'll bore a lot of extra holes , and put in double charges of the explosive . 
I'll add some ingredients to it that will make it stronger . 
Either we'll blow the tunnel all to pieces , or we'll loosen enough rock to make sufficient progress so we can finish on time . 
What do you say ? Shall we take the chance ? The Titus brothers looked at one another . 
Failure stared them in the face . 
Unless they completed the tunnel very soon they would lose all the money they had sunk in it . 
Take the chance ! exclaimed Job . 
It's sink or swim anyhow . 
Set off the big blast , Tom . 
We'll get ready for it as soon as we can . 
That day preparations were made for setting off a great charge of the powerful explosive . 
The work was hurried as fast as was consistent with safety , but even then progress was rather slow . 
Precautions had to be taken , and the guards about the tunnel were doubled . 
For it was feared that some word of what was about to be done would reach the rival firm , who might try desperate means to prevent the completion of the work . 
There was plenty of the explosive on hand , for Mr. Swift had sent Tom a large shipment . 
All this while no word had come from Mr. Nestor , and Tom was beginning to think that his prospective father in law was very angry with him . 
Professor Bumper came and went as he pleased , but his quest was regarded as hopeless now . 
Tom and his friends had little time for the bald headed scientist , for they were too much interested in the success of the big blast . 
Well , we'll set her off to morrow , Tom said one night , after a hard day's work . 
The rocky wall is honeycombed with explosive . 
If all goes well we ought to bring down enough rock to keep the gangs busy night and day . 
Are all the men out ? asked the young inventor of Tim Sullivan , who had charge of this important matter . 
Tim was in sole charge as foreman now , having picked up enough of the Indian language to get along without an interpreter . 
All out , sor , Tim responded . 
Yez kin fire whin ready , Mr. Swift . 
It was a portentous moment . 
No wonder Tom Swift hesitated . 
In a sense he and his friends , the contractors , had staked their all on a single throw . 
If this blast failed it was not likely that another would succeed , even if ther should be time to prepare one . 
The time limit had almost expired , and there was still a half mile of hard rock between the last heading and the farther end of the big tunnel . 
If the blast succeeded enough rock might be brought down to enable the work to go on , by using a night and day shift of men . 
Then , too , there was the chance that the hard strata of rock would come to an end and softer stone , or easily dug dirt , be encountered . 
Well , we may as well have it over with , said Tom in a low voice . 
Every one was very quiet tensely quiet . 
The young inventor looked up to see Professor Bumper observing him . 
Why , Professor ! Tom exclaimed , I thought you had gone off to the mountains again , looking for the lost city . 
I am going , Tom , very soon . 
I thought I would stop and see the effect of your big blast . 
This is my last trip . 
If I do not find the hidden city of Pelone this time , I am going to give up . 
Give up ! cried Mr. Damon . 
Bless my fountain pen ! Oh , not altogether , went on the bald headed scientist . 
I mean I will give up searching in this part of Peru , and go elsewhere . 
Tom looked at the battery box . 
Just for an instant Tom feared something had gone wrong that the electric current had failed , or that the wires had become disconnected perhaps through some action of the plotting rivals . 
Bless my began Mr. Damon , but he got no further , for a mighty gust of wind swept out of the tunnel , and blew off his hat . 
That gust was but a gentle breeze , though , compared to what followed . 
For there came such a rush of air that it almost blew over those standing near the opening of the great shaft driven under the mountain . 
There was a roar as of Niagara , a howling as in the Cave of the Winds , and they all bent to the blast . 
Then followed a dull , rumbling roar , not as loud as might have been expected , but awful in its intensity . 
Deep down under the very foundations of the earth it seemed to rumble . 
Run ! Run back ! cried Tom Swift . 
There's a back draft and the powder gas is poisonous . 
Stoop down and run back ! They understood what he meant . 
The vapor from the powder was deadly if breathed in a confined space . 
Even in the open it gave one a terrible headache . 
And Tom could see floating out of the tunnel the first wisps of smoke from the fired explosive . 
It was lighter than air , and would rise . 
Hence the necessity , as in a smoke filled room , of keeping low down where the air is purer . 
They all rushed back , stooping low . 
Yes , it went off . 
But did it do the work ? That's what we've got to find out . 
They waited impatiently for the deadly vapor to clear out of the tunnel . 
It was more than an hour before they dared venture in , and then it was with smarting eyes and puckered throats . 
But the atmosphere was quickly clearing . 
Switch on the lights , cried Tom to Tim , for the illuminating current had been cut off when the blast was fired . 
Let's see what we've brought down . 
Following the eager young inventor came the contractors , some of the white workers , Mr. Damon and Professor Bumper . 
The little scientist said he would like to see the effect of the big blast . 
Along they stumbled over pieces of rock , large and small . 
Some force to it , observed Job Titus , as he observed pieces of rock close to the mouth of the tunnel . 
If it only exerted the force the other way , against the face of the rock , as well as back this way , we'll be all right . 
The greater force was in the opposite direction , Tom said . 
A big search light had been got ready to flash on the place where the blast had been set off . 
This was to enable them to see how much rock had been torn away . 
And , as they reached the place where the flint like wall had been , they saw a strange sight . 
Bless my strawberry short cake ! gasped Mr. Damon . 
What a hole ! It is a bole , admitted Tom , in a low voice . 
A bigger hole than I dared hope for . 
For a great cave , seemingly , had been blown in the face of the rock wall that had hindered the progress of the tunnel . 
A great black void confronted them . 
Shift the light over this way , called Tom to Walter Titus , who was operating it . 
The great beam of light flashed into the void , and then a murmur of awe came from every throat . 
For there , revealed in the powerful electrical rays , was what seemed to be a long tunnel , high and wide , as smooth as a paved street . 
And on either side of it were what appeared to be buildings , some low , others taller . 
And , branching off from the main tunnel , or street , were other passages , also lined with buildings , some of which had crumbled to ruins . 
Bless my dictionary ! cried Mr. Damon . 
What is it ? Professor Bumper had crawled forward over the mass of broken rock . 
But the young inventor grasped Mr. Bumper by the arm . 
Better wait a bit , Tom suggested . 
There may be powder gas in there . 
Some of it must have blown forward . 
I don't care ! excitedly cried the professor . 
It isn't going to run away . 
Wait until I make a test Tim , hand me one of those torches . 
Some torches of a very inflammable wood were used to test for the presence of the deadly smoke gas . 
Lighting one of these , Tom tossed it into the big excavation . 
It fell to the stone floor to the stone street to be more exact and , flaring up brightly , further revealed the rows of houses as they stood , silent and uninhabited . 
It's all right , Tom announced . 
There's no danger so long as the torch burns . 
You can go on , Professor . 
And Professor Bumper rushed forward , scrambling over the pile of blasted rock , followed by Tom and the others . 
Some of the debris from the explosion had fallen into the cave , and was scattered for some distance along the main street of what had been Pelone . 
But beyond that the way was clear . 
Yes , it is Pelone , cried Professor Bumper . 
See ! He pointed to inscriptions in queer characters over the doorway of some of the houses , but he alone could read them . 
I have found Pelone ! he kept repeating over and over again . 
And that is just what had happened . 
That last great blast Tom Swift had set off had broken down the rock wall that hid the lost city from view . 
There it was , buried deep down under the mountain , where it had been covered from sight ages ago by some mighty earthquake or landslide perhaps both . 
The buildings were of stone block construction , mostly only one story in height , though some were two . 
They were simply made , somewhat after the fashion of the Aztecs . 
A look into some of them by the light of portable electric lamps showed that the houses were furnished with some degree of taste and luxury . 
There were traces of an ancient civilization . 
But of the inhabitants , there was not a trace . 
either they had fled before the earthquake or the volcanic eruption had engulfed the city , or the countless centuries had turned their very bones to dust . 
Oh , what a find ! What a find ! murmured Professor Bumper . 
I shall be famous ! And so will you , Tom Swift . 
For it was your blast that revealed the lost city of Pelone . 
Your name will be honored by every archeological society in the world , and all will be eager to make you an honorary member . 
That's all very nice , said Tom , but what pleases me better is that this tunnel is a success . 
Success ! cried Mr. Damon . 
I should call it a failure , Tom Swift . 
Why , you've run smack into an old city , and you'll have either to curve the tunnel to one side , or start a new one . 
Nothing of the sort ! laughed Tom . 
Don't you see ? The tunnel comes right up to the main street of Pelone . 
And the street is as straight as a die , and just the width and height of the tunnel . 
All we will have to do will be to keep on blasting away , where the main street comes to an end , and our tunnel will be finished . 
The street is over half a mile long , I should judge , and we'll save all that blasting . 
The tunnel will be finished in time ! So it will ! cried Job Titus . 
We can use the main street of the hidden city as part of the tunnel . 
Use the street all you like , said Mr. Bumper . 
but leave the houses to me . 
They are a perfect mine of ancient lore and information . 
At last I have found it ! The ancient , hidden city of Pelone , spoken of on the Peruvian tablets , of gold . 
The story of the discoveries the scientist made in Pelone is an enthralling one . 
But this is a story of Tom Swift and his big tunnel , and no place for telling of the archeological discoveries . 
Suffice it to say that Professor Bumper , though be found no gold , for which the contractors hoped , made many curious finds in the ancient houses . 
He came upon traces of a strange civilization , though he could find no record of what had caused the burial of Pelone beneath the mountains . 
He wrote many books about his discovery , giving Tom Swift due credit for uncovering the place with the mighty blast . 
Other scientists came in flocks , and for a time Pelone was almost as busy a place as it had been originally . 
Even when the tunnel was completed and trains ran through it , the scientists kept on with their work of classifying what they found . 
But to go back to the story of Tom Swift . 
He and the contractors were able to use the main street of Pelone as part of their tunnel , and a good half mile of blasting through solid rock was saved . 
So our rivals didn't balk us after all , said Walter Titus , though they tried mighty hard . 
The big tunnel was finished at least Tom Swift's work on it . 
All that remained to do was to clear away the debris and lay the connecting rails . 
Tom and Mr. Damon prepared to go back home . 
The latter's work was done . 
As for Professor Bumper , nothing could take him from Pelone . 
He said he was going to live there , and , practically , he did . 
Tom , Koku and Mr. Damon returned to Lima , thence to go to Callao to take the steamer for San Francisco . 
One day the manager of the hotel spoke to them . 
You are Americans , are you not ? he asked . 
Why ? Because there is another American here . 
He is friendless and alone , and he is dying . 
He has no friends , he says . 
Perhaps Of course we'll do what we can for him , said Tom , impulsively . 
Where is he ? With Mr. Damon he entered the room where the dying man lay . 
He had caught a fever , the hotel manager said , and could not recover . 
Yes , the 'bearded man' now , said the sufferer in a hoarse voice , and some one else too . 
I am Waddington ! And so it proved . 
He had grown a beard to disguise himself so he might better follow Tom Swift and Mr. Titus . 
And he had followed them , seeking to prevent the completion of the tunnel . 
But he had not been successful . 
Waddington it was who had thrown the bomb , though he declared he only hoped to disable Tom and Mr. Titus , and not to injure them . 
He was fighting for delay . 
And it was Waddington , working in conjunction with the rascally foreman Serato , who had induced the tunnel workers to desert so mysteriously , hoping to scare the other Indians away . 
He nearly succeeded too , had it not been for the gratitude of the woman whose baby Tom had saved from the condor . 
Waddington had been an actor before he became involved with the rival contractors . 
He was smooth shaven when first he went to Shopton , to spy on Mr. Titus , whose movements he had been commanded to follow by Blakeson Grinder . 
Then he disappeared after Mr. Titus chased him , only to reappear , in disguise , on board the Bellaconda , as Senor Pinto . 
Waddington , meanwhile , had grown a beard and this , with his knowledge of theatrical makeup , enabled him to deceive even Mr. Titus . 
Of course it was comparatively easy to deceive Tom , who had not known him . 
When he did recognize them , he relied on his disguise to screen him from recognition , and he was successful . 
He had only pretended to be ill , though , the time he slipped out and threw the bomb . 
Reaching Peru he at once began his plotting . 
Waddington was planning further disappearances when Tom saw him , but thought it a dream . 
Masni , the Indian woman , out herb hunting one day , had seen Waddington , 'the bearded man' as he then was working the secret stone . 
Hidden , she observed him and told her husband , who was afraid to reveal what he knew . 
But when Tom saved the baby the woman rewarded him in the only way possible . 
And it was Serato , who , at Waddington's suggestion , caused the hit among the men by working on their superstitious fears . 
Waddington was but a tool in the hands of the rival contractors , who deserted him in his hour of need . 
His last hours , however , were made as comfortable as possible by the generosity of Tom and Mr. Damon . 
No effort was made to bring Blakeson Grinder to justice , as there was no evidence against them after Waddington died . 
And , as the tunnel was finished , the Titus brothers had no further cause for worry . 
The day before the steamer was to sail , Tom Swift received a cable message . 
Its receipt seemed to fill him with delight , so that Mr. Damon asked Is it from your father , Tom ? No it's from Mary Nestor . 
She says her father has forgiven me . 
They have been away , and Mary has been ill , which accounts for no letters up to now . 
But everything is all right now , and they feel that the dynamite trick wasn't my fault . 
But , all the same , I'm going to teach Eradicate to read , concluded Tom . 
I think it would be a good idea , agreed Mr. Damon . 
Tom , Mr. Damon and Koku , bidding farewell to the friends they had made in Peru , went . 
aboard the steamer , Job Titus and his brother coming to see them off . 
Give us an option on all that explosive you make , Tom Swift ! begged Walter Titus . 
We were so successful with this tunnel , thanks to you , that the government is going to have us dig another . 
Will you come down and help ? Maybe , said Tom , with a smile . 
But I'm going home first , and once more he read the message from Mary Nestor . 
