The Arrival of the Wizard . 
Into the Black Pit and Out Again . 
They Fight the Invisible Bears . 
The Braided Man of Pyramid Mountain . 
They Meet the Wooden Gargoyles . 
The Den of the Dragonettes . 
Ozma Uses the Magic Belt . 
Jim , the Cab Horse . 
The Trial of Eureka , the Kitten . 
The Wizard Performs Another Trick . 
Zeb Returns to the Ranch To My Readers It's no use no use at all . 
The children won't let me stop telling tales of the Land of Oz . 
I know lots of other stories , and I hope to tell them , some time or another but just now my loving tyrants won't allow me . 
They cry Oz Oz ! more about Oz , Mr. Baum ! and what can I do but obey their commands ? This is Our Book mine and the children's . 
For they have flooded me with thousands of suggestions in regard to it , and I have honestly tried to adopt as many of these suggestions as could be fitted into one story . 
After the wonderful success of Ozma of Oz it is evident that Dorothy has become a firm fixture in these Oz stories . 
The little ones all love Dorothy , and as one of my small friends aptly states It isn't a real Oz story without her . 
So here she is again , as sweet and gentle and innocent as ever , I hope , and the heroine of another strange adventure . 
There were many requests from my little correspondents for more about the Wizard . 
It seems the jolly old fellow made hosts of friends in the first Oz book , in spite of the fact that he frankly acknowledged himself a humbug . 
The children had heard how he mounted into the sky in a balloon and they were all waiting for him to come down again . 
So what could I do but tell what happened to the Wizard afterward ? You will find him in these pages , just the same humbug Wizard as before . 
Princess Ozma , whom I love as much as my readers do , is again introduced in this story , and so are several of our old friends of Oz . 
You will also become acquainted with Jim the Cab Horse , the Nine Tiny Piglets , and Eureka , the Kitten . 
I am sorry the kitten was not as well behaved as she ought to have been but perhaps she wasn't brought up properly . 
Dorothy found her , you see , and who her parents were nobody knows . 
I believe , my dears , that I am the proudest story teller that ever lived . 
Indeed , I would much rather be your story teller , under these conditions , than to be the President . 
So you have helped me to fulfill my life's ambition , and I am more grateful to you , my dears , than I can express in words . 
I try to answer every letter of my young correspondents yet sometimes there are so many letters that a little time must pass before you get your answer . 
But be patient , friends , for the answer will surely come , and by writing to me you more than repay me for the pleasant task of preparing these books . 
L. FRANK BAUM Coronado , . 
The Earthquake The train from 'Frisco was very late . 
The conductor helped her off the car and then the engineer started his train again , so that it puffed and groaned and moved slowly away up the track . 
So he moved the cars slowly and with caution . 
The little girl stood still to watch until the train had disappeared around a curve then she turned to see where she was . 
The shed at Hugson's Siding was bare save for an old wooden bench , and did not look very inviting . 
She walked toward it and found the horse tied to a tree and standing motionless , with its head hanging down almost to the ground . 
It was a big horse , tall and bony , with long legs and large knees and feet . 
His tail was short and scraggly , and his harness had been broken in many places and fastened together again with cords and bits of wire . 
The buggy seemed almost new , for it had a shiny top and side curtains . 
Getting around in front , so that she could look inside , the girl saw a boy curled up on the seat , fast asleep . 
She set down the bird cage and poked the boy with her parasol . 
Presently he woke up , rose to a sitting position and rubbed his eyes briskly . 
Hello ! he said , seeing her , are you Dorothy Gale ? Yes , she answered , looking gravely at his tousled hair and blinking gray eyes . 
Have you come to take me to Hugson's Ranch ? Of course , he answered . 
Train in ? I couldn't be here if it wasn't , she said . 
He laughed at that , and his laugh was merry and frank . 
Jumping out of the buggy he put Dorothy's suit case under the seat and her bird cage on the floor in front . 
Canary birds ? he asked . 
Oh no it's just Eureka , my kitten . 
I thought that was the best way to carry her . 
Eureka's a funny name for a cat , he remarked . 
I named my kitten that because I found it , she explained . 
Uncle Henry says 'Eureka' means 'I have found it . 
She climbed into the buggy and he followed her . 
Then the boy picked up the reins , shook them , and said Gid dap ! The horse did not stir . 
Dorothy thought he just wiggled one of his drooping ears , but that was all . 
Gid dap ! called the boy , again . 
Perhaps , said Dorothy , if you untied him , he would go . 
The boy laughed cheerfully and jumped out . 
Guess I'm half asleep yet , he said , untying the horse . 
But Jim knows his business all right don't you , Jim ? patting the long nose of the animal . 
Thought that train would never come , observed the boy . 
I've waited at that station for five hours . 
We had a lot of earthquakes , said Dorothy . 
Didn't you feel the ground shake ? Yes but we're used to such things in California , he replied . 
They don't scare us much . 
The conductor said it was the worst quake he ever knew . 
Did he ? Then it must have happened while I was asleep , he said thoughtfully . 
How is Uncle Henry ? she enquired , after a pause during which the horse continued to trot with long , regular strides . 
He and Uncle Hugson have been having a fine visit . 
Is Mr. Hugson your uncle ? she asked . 
Uncle Bill Hugson married your Uncle Henry's wife's sister so we must be second cousins , said the boy , in an amused tone . 
I work for Uncle Bill on his ranch , and he pays me six dollars a month and my board . 
Isn't that a great deal ? she asked , doubtfully . 
Why , it's a great deal for Uncle Hugson , but not for me . 
I work as well as I sleep , he added , with a laugh . 
What is your name ? said Dorothy , thinking she liked the boy's manner and the cheery tone of his voice . 
Not a very pretty one , he answered , as if a little ashamed . 
My whole name is Zebediah but folks just call me 'Zeb . 
You've been to Australia , haven't you ? Yes with Uncle Henry , she answered . 
How long will you be with us ? he asked . 
Tomorrow Uncle Henry and I must start back for Kansas . 
We've been away for a long time , you know , and so we're anxious to get home again . 
The boy flicked the big , boney horse with his whip and looked thoughtful . 
Next minute there was a roar and a sharp crash , and at her side Dorothy saw the ground open in a wide crack and then come together again . 
Goodness ! she cried , grasping the iron rail of the seat . 
What was that ? That was an awful big quake , replied Zeb , with a white face . 
It almost got us that time , Dorothy . 
The horse had stopped short , and stood firm as a rock . 
Zeb shook the reins and urged him to go , but Jim was stubborn . 
Then the boy cracked his whip and touched the animal's flanks with it , and after a low moan of protest Jim stepped slowly along the road . 
Neither the boy nor the girl spoke again for some minutes . 
There was a breath of danger in the very air , and every few moments the earth would shake violently . 
Jim's ears were standing erect upon his head and every muscle of his big body was tense as he trotted toward home . 
He was not going very fast , but on his flanks specks of foam began to appear and at times he would tremble like a leaf . 
The sky had grown darker again and the wind made queer sobbing sounds as it swept over the valley . 
Suddenly there was a rending , tearing sound , and the earth split into another great crack just beneath the spot where the horse was standing . 
With a wild neigh of terror the animal fell bodily into the pit , drawing the buggy and its occupants after him . 
Dorothy grabbed fast hold of the buggy top and the boy did the same . 
The sudden rush into space confused them so that they could not think . 
The horrible sensation of falling , the darkness and the terrifying noises , proved more than Dorothy could endure and for a few moments the little girl lost consciousness . 
The Glass City When Dorothy recovered her senses they were still falling , but not so fast . 
The worst thing was their terror of reaching the bottom of this great crack in the earth , and the natural fear that sudden death was about to overtake them at any moment . 
Crash after crash echoed far above their heads , as the earth came together where it had split , and stones and chunks of clay rattled around them on every side . 
How long this state of things continued Dorothy could not even guess , she was so greatly bewildered . 
Also , turning her head , she found that she could see the boy beside her , who had until now remained as still and silent as she herself . 
Dorothy sighed and commenced to breathe easier . 
With this thought in mind the girl took heart and leaned her head over the side of the buggy to see where the strange light was coming from . 
Far below her she found six great glowing balls suspended in the air . 
The central and largest one was white , and reminded her of the sun . 
Then she looked at Zeb , whose face was blue and whose hair was pink , and gave a little laugh that sounded a bit nervous . 
Isn't it funny ? she said . 
The boy was startled and his eyes were big . 
Dorothy had a green streak through the center of her face where the blue and yellow lights came together , and her appearance seemed to add to his fright . 
I I don't s s see any thing funny 'bout it ! he stammered . 
Just then the buggy tipped slowly over upon its side , the body of the horse tipping also . 
But they continued to fall , all together , and the boy and girl had no difficulty in remaining upon the seat , just as they were before . 
Then they turned bottom side up , and continued to roll slowly over until they were right side up again . 
Can your horse talk ? she asked . 
Never knew him to , before , replied the boy . 
Those were the first words I ever said , called out the horse , who had overheard them , and I can't explain why I happened to speak then . 
This is a nice scrape you've got me into , isn't it ? As for that , we are in the same scrape ourselves , answered Dorothy , cheerfully . 
But never mind something will happen pretty soon . 
Of course , growled the horse , and then we shall be sorry it happened . 
All this was so terrible and unreal that he could not understand it at all , and so had good reason to be afraid . 
Swiftly they drew near to the flaming colored suns , and passed close beside them . 
The light was then so bright that it dazzled their eyes , and they covered their faces with their hands to escape being blinded . 
We've got to come to the bottom some time , remarked Zeb , with a deep sigh . 
We can't keep falling forever , you know . 
Of course not , said Dorothy . 
We are somewhere in the middle of the earth , and the chances are we'll reach the other side of it before long . 
But it's a big hollow , isn't it ? Awful big ! answered the boy . 
We're coming to something now , announced the horse . 
At this they both put their heads over the side of the buggy and looked down . 
Yes there was land below them and not so very far away , either . 
But they were floating very , very slowly so slowly that it could no longer be called a fall and the children had ample time to take heart and look about them . 
Here and there were groups of houses that seemed made of clear glass , because they sparkled so brightly . 
I'm sure we are in no danger , said Dorothy , in a sober voice . 
We are falling so slowly that we can't be dashed to pieces when we land , and this country that we are coming to seems quite pretty . 
We'll never get home again , though ! declared Zeb , with a groan . 
Oh , I'm not so sure of that , replied the girl . 
But don't let us worry over such things , Zeb we can't help ourselves just now , you know , and I've always been told it's foolish to borrow trouble . 
The boy became silent , having no reply to so sensible a speech , and soon both were fully occupied in staring at the strange scenes spread out below them . 
They seemed to be falling right into the middle of a big city which had many tall buildings with glass domes and sharp pointed spires . 
These spires were like great spear points , and if they tumbled upon one of them they were likely to suffer serious injury . 
Jim the horse had seen these spires , also , and his ears stood straight up with fear , while Dorothy and Zeb held their breaths in suspense . 
But no they floated gently down upon a broad , flat roof , and came to a stop at last . 
At once a pink kitten crept out of the upset cage , sat down upon the glass roof , and yawned and blinked its round eyes . 
First time I ever saw a pink cat , said Zeb . 
Eureka isn't pink she's white . 
It's this queer light that gives her that color . 
Where's my milk ? asked the kitten , looking up into Dorothy's face . 
I'm 'most starved to death . 
Oh , Eureka ! Can you talk ? Talk ! Am I talking ? Good gracious , I believe I am . 
Isn't it funny ? asked the kitten . 
Animals ought not to talk . 
But even old Jim has been saying things since we had our accident . 
I can't see that it's wrong , remarked Jim , in his gruff tones . 
At least , it isn't as wrong as some other things . 
What's going to become of us now ? I don't know , answered the boy , looking around him curiously . 
The houses of the city were all made of glass , so clear and transparent that one could look through the walls as easily as through a window . 
The roof beside them had a great hole smashed through it , and pieces of glass were lying scattered in every direction . 
A nearby steeple had been broken off short and the fragments lay heaped beside it . 
Other buildings were cracked in places or had corners chipped off from them but they must have been very beautiful before these accidents had happened to mar their perfection . 
The rainbow tints from the colored suns fell upon the glass city softly and gave to the buildings many delicate , shifting hues which were very pretty to see . 
But not a sound had broken the stillness since the strangers had arrived , except that of their own voices . 
They began to wonder if there were no people to inhabit this magnificent city of the inner world . 
Suddenly a man appeared through a hole in the roof next to the one they were on and stepped into plain view . 
He was not a very large man , but was well formed and had a beautiful face calm and serene as the face of a fine portrait . 
His clothing fitted his form snugly and was gorgeously colored in brilliant shades of green , which varied as the sunbeams touched them but was not wholly influenced by the solar rays . 
The man had taken a step or two across the glass roof before he noticed the presence of the strangers but then he stopped abruptly . 
He reached the edge of the tall roof , stepped one foot out into the air , and walked into space as calmly as if he were on firm ground . 
The girl , greatly astonished , ran to lean over the edge of the roof , and saw the man walking rapidly through the air toward the ground . 
Soon he reached the street and disappeared through a glass doorway into one of the glass buildings . 
How strange ! she exclaimed , drawing a long breath . 
Come back , Eureka ! she called , in distress , you'll certainly be killed . 
Does the air bear up your weight ? asked the girl . 
Of course can't you see ? and again the kitten wandered into the air and back to the edge of the roof . 
It's wonderful ! said Dorothy . 
Suppose we let Eureka go down to the street and get some one to help us , suggested Zeb , who had been even more amazed than Dorothy at these strange happenings . 
Perhaps we can walk on the air ourselves , replied the girl . 
Zeb drew back with a shiver . 
I wouldn't dare try , he said . 
Maybe Jim will go , continued Dorothy , looking at the horse . 
And maybe he won't ! answered Jim . 
I've tumbled through the air long enough to make me contented on this roof . 
Eureka walks on the air all right . 
Eureka weights only about half a pound , replied the horse , in a scornful tone , while I weigh about half a ton . 
You don't weigh as much as you ought to , Jim , remarked the girl , shaking her head as she looked at the animal . 
Oh , well I'm old , said the horse , hanging his head despondently , and I've had lots of trouble in my day , little one . 
For a good many years I drew a public cab in Chicago , and that's enough to make anyone skinny . 
He eats enough to get fat , I'm sure , said the boy , gravely . 
Do I ? Can you remember any breakfast that I've had today ? growled Jim , as if he resented Zeb's speech . 
None of us has had breakfast , said the boy and in a time of danger like this it's foolish to talk about eating . 
If there are , they are liable to be glass oats ! Oh , no ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
I can see plenty of nice gardens and fields down below us , at the edge of this city . 
But I wish we could find a way to get to the ground . 
Why don't you walk down ? asked Eureka . 
I'm as hungry as the horse is , and I want my milk . 
Will you try it , Zeb asked the girl , turning to her companion . 
He was still pale and frightened , for this dreadful adventure had upset him and made him nervous and worried . 
But he did not wish the little girl to think him a coward , so he advanced slowly to the edge of the roof . 
Dorothy stretched out a hand to him and Zeb put one foot out and let it rest in the air a little over the edge of the roof . 
It seemed firm enough to walk upon , so he took courage and put out the other foot . 
Dorothy kept hold of his hand and followed him , and soon they were both walking through the air , with the kitten frisking beside them . 
Come on , Jim ! called the boy . 
So , with a snort and a neigh and a whisk of his short tail he trotted off the roof into the air and at once began floating downward to the street . 
Well , well ! said Dorothy , drawing a long breath , What a strange country this is . 
People began to come out of the glass doors to look at the new arrivals , and pretty soon quite a crowd had assembled . 
There were men and women , but no children at all , and the folks were all beautifully formed and attractively dressed and had wonderfully handsome faces . 
They did not smile nor did they frown , or show either fear or surprise or curiosity or friendliness . 
Pretty soon a man joined the group who wore a glistening star in the dark hair just over his forehead . 
He seemed to be a person of authority , for the others pressed back to give him room . 
Then , remembering the stones that had fallen with them and passed them long before they had reached this place , he answered No , sir we didn't cause anything . 
The man with the star stood for a time quietly thinking over this speech . 
Then he asked What is an earthquake ? I don't know , said Zeb , who was still confused . 
But Dorothy , seeing his perplexity , answered It's a shaking of the earth . 
In this quake a big crack opened and we fell through horse and buggy , and all and the stones got loose and came down with us . 
The man with the star regarded her with his calm , expressionless eyes . 
The Rain of Stones has done much damage to our city , he said and we shall hold you responsible for it unless you can prove your innocence . 
How can we do that ? asked the girl . 
That I am not prepared to say . 
It is your affair , not mine . 
You must go to the House of the Sorcerer , who will soon discover the truth . 
Where is the House of the Sorcerer ? the girl enquired . 
I will lead you to it . 
Come ! He turned and walked down the street , and after a moment's hesitation Dorothy caught Eureka in her arms and climbed into the buggy . 
The boy took his seat beside her and said Gid dap Jim . 
As the horse ambled along , drawing the buggy , the people of the glass city made way for them and formed a procession in their rear . 
Come to us , oh , Gwig ! called the man , in a loud voice . 
He was formed just as were the other inhabitants of this land and his clothing only differed from theirs in being bright yellow . 
There was even a thorn upon the tip of his nose and he looked so funny that Dorothy laughed when she saw him . 
The Sorcerer , hearing the laugh , looked toward the little girl with cold , cruel eyes , and his glance made her grow sober in an instant . 
Why have you dared to intrude your unwelcome persons into the secluded Land of the Mangaboos ? he asked , sternly . 
'Cause we couldn't help it , said Dorothy . 
Why did you wickedly and viciously send the Rain of Stones to crack and break our houses ? he continued . 
We didn't , declared the girl . 
Prove it ! cried the Sorcerer . 
We don't have to prove it , answered Dorothy , indignantly . 
If you had any sense at all you'd known it was the earthquake . 
We only know that yesterday came a Rain of Stones upon us , which did much damage and injured some of our people . 
Today came another Rain of Stones , and soon after it you appeared among us . 
By the way , said the man with the star , looking steadily at the Sorcerer , you told us yesterday that there would not be a second Rain of Stones . 
Yet one has just occurred that was even worse than the first . 
What is your sorcery good for if it cannot tell us the truth ? My sorcery does tell the truth ! declared the thorn covered man . 
I said there would be but one Rain of Stones . 
This second one was a Rain of People and Horse and Buggy . 
And some stones came with them . 
Will there be any more Rains ? asked the man with the star . 
Neither stones nor people ? No , my Prince . 
Are you sure ? Quite sure , my Prince . 
My sorcery tells me so . 
Just then a man came running into the hall and addressed the Prince after making a low bow . 
More wonders in the air , my Lord , said he . 
Immediately the Prince and all of his people flocked out of the hall into the street , that they might see what was about to happen . 
Dorothy and Zeb jumped out of the buggy and ran after them , but the Sorcerer remained calmly in his throne . 
Far up in the air was an object that looked like a balloon . 
It was not so high as the glowing star of the six colored suns , but was descending slowly through the air so slowly that at first it scarcely seemed to move . 
The throng stood still and waited . 
It was all they could do , for to go away and leave that strange sight was impossible nor could they hurry its fall in any way . 
Gradually the balloon grew bigger , which was proof that it was settling down upon the Land of the Mangaboos . 
Dorothy was surprised to find how patient the people were , for her own little heart was beating rapidly with excitement . 
A balloon meant to her some other arrival from the surface of the earth , and she hoped it would be some one able to assist her and Zeb out of their difficulties . 
Then a little man jumped out of the basket , took off his tall hat , and bowed very gracefully to the crowd of Mangaboos around him . 
He was quite an old little man and his head was long and entirely bald . 
Why , cried Dorothy , in amazement , it's Oz ! The little man looked toward her and seemed as much surprised as she was . 
But he smiled and bowed as he answered Yes , my dear I am Oz , the Great and Terrible . 
Eh ? And you are little Dorothy , from Kansas . 
I remember you very well . 
Who did you say it was ? whispered Zeb to the girl . 
It's the wonderful Wizard of Oz . 
Haven't you heard of him ? Just then the man with the star came and stood before the Wizard . 
I had let so much gas out of my balloon that I could not rise again , and in a few minutes the earth closed over my head . 
So I continued to descend until I reached this place , and if you will show me a way to get out of it , I'll go with pleasure . 
Sorry to have troubled you but it couldn't be helped . 
The Prince had listened with attention . 
Said he This child , who is from the crust of the earth , like yourself , called you a Wizard . 
Is not a Wizard something like a Sorcerer ? It's better , replied Oz , promptly . 
One Wizard is worth three Sorcerers . 
Ah , you shall prove that , said the Prince . 
We Mangaboos have , at the present time , one of the most wonderful Sorcerers that ever was picked from a bush but he sometimes makes mistakes . 
Do you ever make mistakes ? Never ! declared the Wizard , boldly . 
Oh , Oz ! said Dorothy you made a lot of mistakes when you were in the marvelous Land of Oz . 
Nonsense ! said the little man , turning red although just then a ray of violet sunlight was on his round face . 
Come with me , said the Prince to him . 
I wish to meet our Sorcerer . 
The Wizard did not like this invitation , but he could not refuse to accept it . 
So he followed the Prince into the great domed hall , and Dorothy and Zeb came after them , while the throng of people trooped in also . 
There sat the thorny Sorcerer in his chair of state , and when the Wizard saw him he began to laugh , uttering comical little chuckles . 
What an absurd creature ! he exclaimed . 
He may look absurd , said the Prince , in his quiet voice but he is an excellent Sorcerer . 
The only fault I find with him is that he is so often wrong . 
I am never wrong , answered the Sorcerer . 
Only a short time ago you told me there would be no more Rain of Stones or of People , said the Prince . 
Well , what then ? Here is another person descended from the air to prove you were wrong . 
One person cannot be called 'people , said the Sorcerer . 
If two should come out of the sky you might with justice say I was wrong but unless more than this one appears I will hold that I was right . 
Very clever , said the Wizard , nodding his head as if pleased . 
I am delighted to find humbugs inside the earth , just the same as on top of it . 
Were you ever with a circus , brother ? No , said the Sorcerer . 
You ought to join one , declared the little man seriously . 
I belong to Bailum Barney's Great Consolidated Shows three rings in one tent and a menagerie on the side . 
It's a fine aggregation , I assure you . 
What do you do ? asked the Sorcerer . 
I go up in a balloon , usually , to draw the crowds to the circus . 
But I've just had the bad luck to come out of the sky , skip the solid earth , and land lower down than I intended . 
It isn't everybody who gets a chance to see your Land of the Gabazoos . 
Mangaboos , said the Sorcerer , correcting him . 
If you are a Wizard you ought to be able to call people by their right names . 
Oh , I'm a Wizard you may be sure of that . 
Just as good a Wizard as you are a Sorcerer . 
That remains to be seen , said the other . 
If you are able to prove that you are better , said the Prince to the little man , I will make you the Chief Wizard of this domain . 
Otherwise What will happen otherwise ? asked the Wizard . 
I will stop you from living and forbid you to be planted , returned the Prince . 
That does not sound especially pleasant , said the little man , looking at the one with the star uneasily . 
I'll beat Old Prickly , all right . 
My name is Gwig , said the Sorcerer , turning his heartless , cruel eyes upon his rival . 
Let me see you equal the sorcery I am about to perform . 
He waved a thorny hand and at once the tinkling of bells was heard , playing sweet music . 
Yet , look where she would , Dorothy could discover no bells at all in the great glass hall . 
The Mangaboo people listened , but showed no great interest . 
It was one of the things Gwig usually did to prove he was a sorcerer . 
Ahem ! said the Wizard , will somebody please loan me a handkerchief ? But they had no handkerchiefs , either . 
Very good , remarked the Wizard . 
I'll use my own hat , if you please . 
Now , good people , observe me carefully . 
You see , there is nothing up my sleeve and nothing concealed about my person . 
Also , my hat is quite empty . 
He took off his hat and held it upside down , shaking it briskly . 
Let me see it , said the Sorcerer . 
He took the hat and examined it carefully , returning it afterward to the Wizard . 
Now , said the little man , I will create something out of nothing . 
The people watched it intently , for they had never seen a pig before , big or little . 
The Wizard continued this surprising performance until nine tiny piglets were running about at his feet , all squealing and grunting in a very comical way . 
Now , said the Wizard of Oz , having created something from nothing , I will make something nothing again . 
With this he caught up two of the piglets and pushed them together , so that the two were one . 
Then he caught up another piglet and pushed it into the first , where it disappeared . 
And so , one by one , the nine tiny piglets were pushed together until but a single one of the creatures remained . 
This the Wizard placed underneath his hat and made a mystic sign above it . 
When he removed his hat the last piglet had disappeared entirely . 
He will not be a wonderful Wizard long , remarked Gwig . 
Why not ? enquired the Wizard . 
Because I am going to stop your breath , was the reply . 
I perceive that you are curiously constructed , and that if you cannot breathe you cannot keep alive . 
The little man looked troubled . 
How long will it take you to stop my breath ? he asked . 
I'm going to begin now . 
He began making queer signs and passes toward the Wizard but the little man did not watch him long . 
Instead , he drew a leathern case from his pocket and took from it several sharp knives , which he joined together , one after another , until they made a long sword . 
By the time he had attached a handle to this sword he was having much trouble to breathe , as the charm of the Sorcerer was beginning to take effect . 
Why , he's vegetable ! cried the Wizard , astonished . 
Of course , said the Prince . 
We are all vegetable , in this country . 
Are you not vegetable , also ? No , answered the Wizard . 
People on top of the earth are all meat . 
Will your Sorcerer die ? Certainly , sir . 
He is really dead now , and will wither very quickly . 
So we must plant him at once , that other Sorcerers may grow upon his bush , continued the Prince . 
What do you mean by that ? asked the little Wizard , greatly puzzled . 
If you will accompany me to our public gardens , replied the Prince , I will explain to you much better than I can here the mysteries of our Vegetable Kingdom . 
There were paths through these gardens , and over some of the brooks were ornamental glass bridges . 
Dorothy and Zeb now got out of the buggy and walked beside the Prince , so that they might see and examine the flowers and plants better . 
Who built these lovely bridges ? asked the little girl . 
No one built them , answered the man with the star . 
That's queer , said she . 
Did the glass houses in your city grow , too ? Of course , he replied . 
But it took a good many years for them to grow as large and fine as they are now . 
That is why we are so angry when a Rain of Stones comes to break our towers and crack our roofs . 
Can't you mend them ? she enquired . 
No but they will grow together again , in time , and we must wait until they do . 
When they passed over a field of grass Jim immediately stretched down his head and began to nibble . 
A nice country this is , he grumbled , where a respectable horse has to eat pink grass ! It's violet , said the Wizard , who was in the buggy . 
Now it's blue , complained the horse . 
As a matter of fact , I'm eating rainbow grass . 
How does it taste ? asked the Wizard . 
Not bad at all , said Jim . 
If they give me plenty of it I'll not complain about its color . 
By this time the party had reached a freshly plowed field , and the Prince said to Dorothy This is our planting ground . 
Several Mangaboos came forward with glass spades and dug a hole in the ground . 
Then they put the two halves of the Sorcerer into it and covered him up . 
After that other people brought water from a brook and sprinkled the earth . 
He will sprout very soon , said the Prince , and grow into a large bush , from which we shall in time be able to pick several very good sorcerers . 
Do all your people grow on bushes ? asked the boy . 
Certainly , was the reply . 
Do not all people grow upon bushes where you came from , on the outside of the earth ? Not that I ever hear of . 
How strange ! But if you will come with me to one of our folk gardens I will show you the way we grow in the Land of the Mangaboos . 
It appeared that these odd people , while they were able to walk through the air with ease , usually moved upon the ground in the ordinary way . 
There were no stairs in their houses , because they did not need them , but on a level surface they generally walked just as we do . 
The little party of strangers now followed the Prince across a few more of the glass bridges and along several paths until they came to a garden enclosed by a high hedge . 
Inside the hedge they came upon row after row of large and handsome plants with broad leaves gracefully curving until their points nearly reached the ground . 
In the center of each plant grew a daintily dressed Mangaboo , for the clothing of all these creatures grew upon them and was attached to their bodies . 
The growing Mangaboos were of all sizes , from the blossom that had just turned into a wee baby to the full grown and almost ripe man or woman . 
This sight explained to Dorothy why she had seen no children among the Mangaboos , a thing she had until now been unable to account for . 
Our people do not acquire their real life until they leave their bushes , said the Prince . 
So while they grow they cannot be said to really live , and they must be picked before they can become good citizens . 
How long do you live , after you are picked ? asked Dorothy . 
That depends upon the care we take of ourselves , he replied . 
If we keep cool and moist , and meet with no accidents , we often live for five years . 
I've been picked over six years , but our family is known to be especially long lived . 
Do you eat ? asked the boy . 
Eat ! No , indeed . 
We are quite solid inside our bodies , and have no need to eat , any more than does a potato . 
But the potatoes sometimes sprout , said Zeb . 
And sometimes we do , answered the Prince but that is considered a great misfortune , for then we must be planted at once . 
Where did you grow ? asked the Wizard . 
I will show you , was the reply . 
Step this way , please . 
He led them within another but smaller circle of hedge , where grew one large and beautiful bush . 
This , said he , is the Royal Bush of the Mangaboos . 
All of our Princes and Rulers have grown upon this one bush from time immemorial . 
They stood before it in silent admiration . 
The maiden's gown was soft as satin and fell about her in ample folds , while dainty lace like traceries trimmed the bodice and sleeves . 
Her flesh was fine and smooth as polished ivory , and her poise expressed both dignity and grace . 
Who is this ? asked the Wizard , curiously . 
The Prince had been staring hard at the girl on the bush . 
Now he answered , with a touch of uneasiness in his cold tones She is the Ruler destined to be my successor , for she is a Royal Princess . 
When she becomes fully ripe I must abandon the sovereignty of the Mangaboos to her . 
Isn't she ripe now ? asked Dorothy . 
Not quite , said he , finally . 
It will be several days before she needs to be picked , or at least that is my judgment . 
I am in no hurry to resign my office and be planted , you may be sure . 
Probably not , declared the Wizard , nodding . 
I'm sure the Princess is ready to be picked , asserted Dorothy , gazing hard at the beautiful girl on the bush . 
She's as perfect as she can be . 
What are you going to do with us ? asked Zeb . 
That is a matter I have not quite decided upon , was the reply . 
I think I shall keep this Wizard until a new Sorcerer is ready to pick , for he seems quite skillful and may be of use to us . 
You needn't worry , said Dorothy . 
We wouldn't grow under ground , I'm sure . 
But why destroy my friends ? asked the little Wizard . 
Why not let them live ? They do not belong here , returned the Prince . 
They have no right to be inside the earth at all . 
We didn't ask to come down here we fell , said Dorothy . 
That is no excuse , declared the Prince , coldly . 
The children looked at each other in perplexity , and the Wizard sighed . 
If he planted you , he might grow some cat tails , suggested the Wizard . 
Oh , Eureka ! perhaps we can find you some milk weeds to eat , said the boy . 
Phoo ! snarled the kitten I wouldn't touch the nasty things ! You don't need milk , Eureka , remarked Dorothy you are big enough now to eat any kind of food . 
If I can get it , added Eureka . 
I'm hungry myself , said Zeb . 
But I noticed some strawberries growing in one of the gardens , and some melons in another place . 
These people don't eat such things , so perhaps on our way back they will let us get them . 
Never mind your hunger , interrupted the Prince . 
I shall order you destroyed in a few minutes , so you will have no need to ruin our pretty melon vines and berry bushes . 
Follow me , please , to meet your doom . 
Dorothy Picks the Princess The words of the cold and moist vegetable Prince were not very comforting , and as he spoke them he turned away and left the enclosure . 
The children , feeling sad and despondent , were about to follow him when the Wizard touched Dorothy softly on her shoulder . 
What for ? asked the girl . 
Suppose we pick the Royal Princess , said the Wizard . 
I'm quite sure she's ripe , and as soon as she comes to life she will be the Ruler , and may treat us better than that heartless Prince intends to . 
All right ! exclaimed Dorothy , eagerly . 
Let's pick her while we have the chance , before the man with the star comes back . 
So together they leaned over the great bush and each of them seized one hand of the lovely Princess . 
Pull ! cried Dorothy , and as they did so the royal lady leaned toward them and the stems snapped and separated from her feet . 
She was not at all heavy , so the Wizard and Dorothy managed to lift her gently to the ground . 
We salute your Royal Highness ! cried the Wizard , kneeling and kissing her hand . 
Just then the voice of the Prince was heard calling upon them to hasten , and a moment later he returned to the enclosure , followed by a number of his people . 
Instantly the Princess turned and faced him , and when he saw that she was picked the Prince stood still and began to tremble . 
Sir , said the Royal Lady , with much dignity , you have wronged me greatly , and would have wronged me still more had not these strangers come to my rescue . 
I have been ready for picking all the past week , but because you were selfish and desired to continue your unlawful rule , you left me to stand silent upon my bush . 
I did not know that you were ripe , answered the Prince , in a low voice . 
Give me the Star of Royalty ! she commanded . 
Slowly he took the shining star from his own brow and placed it upon that of the Princess . 
Then all the people bowed low to her , and the Prince turned and walked away alone . 
What became of him afterward our friends never knew . 
The people of Mangaboo now formed themselves into a procession and marched toward the glass city to escort their new ruler to her palace and to perform those ceremonies proper to the occasion . 
No one now seemed to pay any attention to the strangers , so Dorothy and Zeb and the Wizard let the train pass on and then wandered by themselves into the vegetable gardens . 
They did not bother to cross the bridges over the brooks , but when they came to a stream they stepped high and walked in the air to the other side . 
This was a very interesting experience to them , and Dorothy said I wonder why it is that we can walk so easily in the air . 
Perhaps , answered the Wizard , it is because we are close to the center of the earth , where the attraction of gravitation is very slight . 
But I've noticed that many queer things happen in fairy countries . 
Is this a fairy country ? asked the boy . 
Of course it is , returned Dorothy promptly . 
Only a fairy country could have veg'table people and only in a fairy country could Eureka and Jim talk as we do . 
That's true , said Zeb , thoughtfully . 
In the vegetable gardens they found the strawberries and melons , and several other unknown but delicious fruits , of which they ate heartily . 
But the kitten bothered them constantly by demanding milk or meat , and called the Wizard names because he could not bring her a dish of milk by means of his magical arts . 
In the strict sense of the word I am not a Wizard , but only a humbug . 
The Wizard of Oz has always been a humbug , agreed Dorothy . 
I've known him for a long time . 
Very true , declared the Wizard , nodding at her . 
But I saw the little pigs with my own eyes ! exclaimed Zeb . 
So did I , purred the kitten . 
To be sure , answered the Wizard . 
You saw them because they were there . 
They are in my inside pocket now . 
But the pulling of them apart and pushing them together again was only a sleight of hand trick . 
Let's see the pigs , said Eureka , eagerly . 
The little man felt carefully in his pocket and pulled out the tiny piglets , setting them upon the grass one by one , where they ran around and nibbled the tender blades . 
They're hungry , too , he said . 
Oh , what cunning things ! cried Dorothy , catching up one and petting it . 
Be careful ! said the piglet , with a squeal , you're squeezing me ! Dear me ! murmured the Wizard , looking at his pets in astonishment . 
They can actually talk ! May I eat one of them ? asked the kitten , in a pleading voice . 
Why , Eureka , said Dorothy , reproachfully , what a cruel question ! It would be dreadful to eat these dear little things . 
I should say so ! grunted another of the piglets , looking uneasily at the kitten cats are cruel things . 
I'm not cruel , replied the kitten , yawning . 
You cannot eat my piglets , even if you are starving , declared the little man , in a stern voice . 
They are the only things I have to prove I'm a wizard . 
How did they happen to be so little ? asked Dorothy . 
I never saw such small pigs before . 
They are from the Island of Teenty Weent , said the Wizard , where everything is small because it's a small island . 
A sailor brought them to Los Angeles and I gave him nine tickets to the circus for them . 
But what am I going to eat ? wailed the kitten , sitting in front of Dorothy and looking pleadingly into her face . 
There are no cows here to give milk or any mice , or even grasshoppers . 
And if I can't eat the piglets you may as well plant me at once and raise catsup . 
I have an idea , said the Wizard , that there are fishes in these brooks . 
Do you like fish ? Fish ! cried the kitten . 
Do I like fish ? Why , they're better than piglets or even milk ! Then I'll try to catch you some , said he . 
But won't they be veg'table , like everything else here ? asked the kitten . 
Fishes are not animals , and they are as cold and moist as the vegetables themselves . 
There is no reason , that I can see , why they may not exist in the waters of this strange country . 
Then the Wizard bent a pin for a hook and took a long piece of string from his pocket for a fish line . 
But I don't think that fish had any bones , because I didn't feel them scratch my throat . 
You were very greedy , said the girl . 
I was very hungry , replied the kitten . 
The little pigs had stood huddled in a group , watching this scene with frightened eyes . 
Cats are dreadful creatures ! said one of them . 
I'm glad we are not fishes ! said another . 
Don't worry , Dorothy murmured , soothingly , I'll not let the kitten hurt you . 
Eureka stuck up her nose at such food , but the tiny piglets squealed delightedly at the sight of the crackers and ate them up in a jiffy . 
Now let us go back to the city , suggested the Wizard . 
That is , if Jim has had enough of the pink grass . 
The cab horse , who was browsing near , lifted his head with a sigh . 
I've tried to eat a lot while I had the chance , said he , for it's likely to be a long while between meals in this strange country . 
But I'm ready to go , now , at any time you wish . 
Where shall we stay ? asked the girl . 
They agreed to this plan , and when they reached the great square Jim drew the buggy into the big door of the domed hall . 
It doesn't look very homelike , said Dorothy , gazing around at the bare room . 
But it's a place to stay , anyhow . 
What are those holes up there ? enquired the boy , pointing to some openings that appeared near the top of the dome . 
They look like doorways , said Dorothy only there are no stairs to get to them . 
You forget that stairs are unnecessary , observed the Wizard . 
Let us walk up , and see where the doors lead to . 
With this he began walking in the air toward the high openings , and Dorothy and Zeb followed him . 
Following these halls they discovered many small rooms opening from them , and some were furnished with glass benches , tables and chairs . 
But there were no beds at all . 
I wonder if these people never sleep , said the girl . 
Why , there seems to be no night at all in this country , Zeb replied . 
Those colored suns are exactly in the same place they were when we came , and if there is no sunset there can be no night . 
Very true , agreed the Wizard . 
But it is a long time since I have had any sleep , and I'm tired . 
So I think I shall lie down upon one of these hard glass benches and take a nap . 
I will , too , said Dorothy , and chose a little room at the end of the hall . 
Then the boy returned to one of the upper rooms , and in spite of the hardness of the glass bench was soon deep in slumberland . 
The Mangaboos Prove Dangerous When the Wizard awoke the six colored suns were shining down upon the Land of the Mangaboos just as they had done ever since his arrival . 
So the Wizard went in to him . 
Zeb , said he , my balloon is of no further use in this strange country , so I may as well leave it on the square where it fell . 
But in the basket car are some things I would like to keep with me . 
I wish you would go and fetch my satchel , two lanterns , and a can of kerosene oil that is under the seat . 
There is nothing else that I care about . 
So the boy went willingly upon the errand , and by the time he had returned Dorothy was awake . 
Then the three held a counsel to decide what they should do next , but could think of no way to better their condition . 
I don't like these veg'table people , said the little girl . 
They're cold and flabby , like cabbages , in spite of their prettiness . 
It is because there is no warm blood in them , remarked the Wizard . 
And they have no hearts so they can't love anyone not even themselves , declared the boy . 
The Princess is lovely to look at , continued Dorothy , thoughtfully but I don't care much for her , after all . 
If there was any other place to go , I'd like to go there . 
But IS there any other place ? asked the Wizard . 
I don't know , she answered . 
How can we go away ? asked Dorothy . 
Oh , you cannot go away , of course so you must be destroyed , was the answer . 
In what way ? enquired the Wizard . 
We shall throw you three people into the Garden of the Twining Vines , said the Princess , and they will soon crush you and devour your bodies to make themselves grow bigger . 
The animals you have with you we will drive to the mountains and put into the Black Pit . 
Then our country will be rid of all its unwelcome visitors . 
But you are in need of a Sorcerer , said the Wizard , and not one of those growing is yet ripe enough to pick . 
I am greater than any thorn covered sorcerer that every grew in your garden . 
Let us see your arts , and the sorceries you are able to perform . 
Then I will decide whether to destroy you with the others or not . 
At this the Wizard made a bow to the people and repeated his trick of producing the nine tiny piglets and making them disappear again . 
He did it very cleverly , indeed , and the Princess looked at the strange piglets as if she were as truly astonished as any vegetable person could be . 
But afterward she said I have heard of this wonderful magic . 
But it accomplishes nothing of value . 
What else can you do ? The Wizard tried to think . 
Then he jointed together the blades of his sword and balanced it very skillfully upon the end of his nose . 
But even that did not satisfy the Princess . 
So he placed Dorothy upon one side of him and the boy upon the other and set a lantern upon each of their heads . 
Don't laugh , he whispered to them , or you will spoil the effect of my magic . 
Then , with much dignity and a look of vast importance upon his wrinkled face , the Wizard got out his match box and lighted the two lanterns . 
The glare they made was very small when compared with the radiance of the six great colored suns but still they gleamed steadily and clearly . 
The Mangaboos were much impressed because they had never before seen any light that did not come directly from their suns . 
Next the Wizard poured a pool of oil from the can upon the glass floor , where it covered quite a broad surface . 
When he lighted the oil a hundred tongues of flame shot up , and the effect was really imposing . 
Now , Princess , exclaimed the Wizard , those of your advisors who wished to throw us into the Garden of Clinging Vines must step within this circle of light . 
If they advised you well , and were in the right , they will not be injured in any way . 
But if any advised you wrongly , the light will wither him . 
Some of the Mangaboos fell down and had to be dragged from the fire , and all were so withered that it would be necessary to plant them at once . 
Sir , said the Princess to the Wizard , you are greater than any Sorcerer we have ever known . 
They were even permitted to occupy the House of the Sorcerer in peace , as if it had been their own , and to wander in the gardens in search of food . 
Once they came near to the enclosed Garden of the Clinging Vines , and walking high into the air looked down upon it with much interest . 
They saw a mass of tough green vines all matted together and writhing and twisting around like a nest of great snakes . 
Everything the vines touched they crushed , and our adventurers were indeed thankful to have escaped being cast among them . 
They knew the kitten , by this time , so they scampered over to where she lay beside Jim and commenced to frisk and play with her . 
The cab horse , who never slept long at a time , sat upon his haunches and watched the tiny piglets and the kitten with much approval . 
Suddenly they looked up to find the room filled with the silent , solemn eyed Mangaboos . 
Each of the vegetable folks bore a branch covered with sharp thorns , which was thrust defiantly toward the horse , the kitten and the piglets . 
Here stop this foolishness ! Jim roared , angrily but after being pricked once or twice he got upon his four legs and kept out of the way of the thorns . 
Here were more of the vegetable people with thorns , and silently they urged the now frightened creatures down the street . 
Slowly but steadily the heartless Mangaboos drove them on , until they had passed through the city and the gardens and come to the broad plains leading to the mountain . 
What does all this mean , anyhow ? asked the horse , jumping to escape a thorn . 
Why , they are driving us toward the Black Pit , into which they threatened to cast us , replied the kitten . 
If I were as big as you are , Jim , I'd fight these miserable turnip roots ! What would you do ? enquired Jim . 
I'd kick out with those long legs and iron shod hoofs . 
All right , said the horse I'll do it . 
An instant later he suddenly backed toward the crowd of Mangaboos and kicked out his hind legs as hard as he could . 
But the foes were too many to be repulsed for long . 
Half way up the steep was a yawning cave , black as night beyond the point where the rainbow rays of the colored suns reached into it . 
This is dreadful ! groaned Jim . 
It will be about the end of our adventures , I guess . 
If the Wizard was here , said one of the piglets , sobbing bitterly , he would not see us suffer so . 
We ought to have called him and Dorothy when we were first attacked , added Eureka . 
But never mind be brave , my friends , and I will go and tell our masters where you are , and get them to come to your rescue . 
The mouth of the hole was nearly filled up now , but the kitten gave a leap through the remaining opening and at once scampered up into the air . 
The Mangaboos saw her escape , and several of them caught up their thorns and gave chase , mounting through the air after her . 
Eureka , however , was lighter than the Mangaboos , and while they could mount only about a hundred feet above the earth the kitten found she could go nearly two hundred feet . 
So she ran along over their heads until she had left them far behind and below and had come to the city and the House of the Sorcerer . 
There she entered in at Dorothy's window in the dome and aroused her from her sleep . 
As soon as the little girl knew what had happened she awakened the Wizard and Zeb , and at once preparations were made to go to the rescue of Jim and the piglets . 
The Wizard carried his satchel , which was quite heavy , and Zeb carried the two lanterns and the oil can . 
So there was nothing for the girl to carry but the kitten , which she held close to her bosom and tried to comfort , for its little heart was still beating rapidly . 
Before long they neared the Black Pit , where a busy swarm of Mangaboos , headed by their Princess , was engaged in piling up glass rocks before the entrance . 
Stop , I command you ! cried the Wizard , in an angry tone , and at once began pulling down the rocks to liberate Jim and the piglets . 
Dorothy hopped inside the opening to escape being pricked , and Zeb and the Wizard , after enduring a few stabs from the thorns , were glad to follow her . 
I'd as soon die here as live much longer among these cruel and heartless people . 
That's the way I feel about it , remarked Zeb , rubbing his wounds . 
I've had enough of the Mangaboos . 
All right , said the Wizard I'm with you , whatever you decide . 
But we can't live long in this cavern , that's certain . 
Noticing that the light was growing dim he picked up his nine piglets , patted each one lovingly on its fat little head , and placed them carefully in his inside pocket . 
Zeb struck a match and lighted one of the lanterns . 
How big is this hole ? asked Dorothy . 
I'll explore it and see , replied the boy . 
So he carried the lantern back for quite a distance , while Dorothy and the Wizard followed at his side . 
The others agreed readily to this sensible suggestion , and at once the boy began to harness Jim to the buggy . 
Jim stopped sometimes to rest , for the climb was rather steep and tiresome . 
We must be nearly as high as the six colored suns , by this time , said Dorothy . 
I didn't know this mountain was so tall . 
We are certainly a good distance away from the Land of the Mangaboos , added Zeb for we have slanted away from it ever since we started . 
The sides of the tunnel showed before them like the inside of a long spy glass , and the floor became more level . 
It was all laid out into lovely lawns and gardens , with pebble paths leading through them and groves of beautiful and stately trees dotting the landscape here and there . 
There were orchards , too , bearing luscious fruits that are all unknown in our world . 
Alluring brooks of crystal water flowed sparkling between their flower strewn banks , while scattered over the valley were dozens of the quaintest and most picturesque cottages our travelers had ever beheld . 
None of them were in clusters , such as villages or towns , but each had ample grounds of its own , with orchards and gardens surrounding it . 
Several minutes were consumed in silent admiration before they noticed two very singular and unusual facts about this valley . 
One was that it was lighted from some unseen source for no sun or moon was in the arched blue sky , although every object was flooded with a clear and perfect light . 
The second and even more singular fact was the absence of any inhabitant of this splendid place . 
From their elevated position they could overlook the entire valley , but not a single moving object could they see . 
The mountain on this side was not glass , but made of a stone similar to granite . 
With some difficulty and danger Jim drew the buggy over the loose rocks until he reached the green lawns below , where the paths and orchards and gardens began . 
The nearest cottage was still some distance away . 
Isn't it fine ? cried Dorothy , in a joyous voice , as she sprang out of the buggy and let Eureka run frolicking over the velvety grass . 
Yes , indeed ! answered Zeb . 
We were lucky to get away from those dreadful vegetable people . 
It wouldn't be so bad , remarked the Wizard , gazing around him , if we were obliged to live here always . 
We couldn't find a prettier place , I'm sure . 
But where are the people ? asked Dorothy . 
The little man shook his bald head . 
Can't imagine , my dear , he replied . 
They heard the sudden twittering of a bird , but could not find the creature anywhere . 
Slowly they walked along the path toward the nearest cottage , the piglets racing and gambolling beside them and Jim pausing at every step for another mouthful of grass . 
Presently they came to a low plant which had broad , spreading leaves , in the center of which grew a single fruit about as large as a peach . 
It's good , anyway , said Zeb , or those little rascals wouldn't have gobbled it up so greedily . 
Where are they ? asked Dorothy , in astonishment . 
They all looked around , but the piglets had disappeared . 
Dear me ! cried the Wizard they must have run away . 
But I didn't see them go did you ? No ! replied the boy and the girl , together . 
Here , piggy , piggy , piggy ! called their master , anxiously . 
Several squeals and grunts were instantly heard at his feet , but the Wizard could not discover a single piglet . 
Where are you ? he asked . 
Why , right beside you , spoke a tiny voice . 
Can't you see us ? No , answered the little man , in a puzzled tone . 
We can see you , said another of the piglets . 
The Wizard stooped down and put out his hand , and at once felt the small fat body of one of his pets . 
He picked it up , but could not see what he held . 
It is very strange , said he , soberly . 
The piglets have become invisible , in some curious way . 
I'll bet it's because they ate that peach ! cried the kitten . 
It wasn't a peach , Eureka , said Dorothy . 
I only hope it wasn't poison . 
It was fine , Dorothy , called one of the piglets . 
We'll eat all we can find of them , said another . 
But WE mus'n't eat them , the Wizard warned the children , or we too may become invisible , and lose each other . 
If we come across another of the strange fruit we must avoid it . 
The travellers now resumed their walk toward the cottage , which they presently reached . 
It was a pretty place , with vines growing thickly over the broad front porch . 
The door stood open and a table was set in the front room , with four chairs drawn up to it . 
On the table were plates , knives and forks , and dishes of bread , meat and fruits . 
The meat was smoking hot and the knives and forks were performing strange antics and jumping here and there in quite a puzzling way . 
But not a single person appeared to be in the room . 
How funny ! exclaimed Dorothy , who with Zeb and the Wizard now stood in the doorway . 
A peal of merry laughter answered her , and the knives and forks fell to the plates with a clatter . 
One of the chairs pushed back from the table , and this was so astonishing and mysterious that Dorothy was almost tempted to run away in fright . 
Here are strangers , mama ! cried the shrill and childish voice of some unseen person . 
So I see , my dear , answered another voice , soft and womanly . 
What do you want ? demanded a third voice , in a stern , gruff accent . 
Well , well ! said the Wizard are there really people in this room ? Of course , replied the man's voice . 
And pardon me for the foolish question but , are you all invisible ? Surely , the woman answered , repeating her low , rippling laughter . 
Are you surprised that you are unable to see the people of Voe ? Why , yes , stammered the Wizard . 
All the people I have ever met before were very plain to see . 
Where do you come from , then ? asked the woman , in a curious tone . 
We belong upon the face of the earth , explained the Wizard , but recently , during an earthquake , we fell down a crack and landed in the Country of the Mangaboos . 
Dreadful creatures ! exclaimed the woman's voice . 
They walled us up in a mountain , continued the Wizard but we found there was a tunnel through to this side , so we came here . 
It is a beautiful place . 
What do you call it ? It is the Valley of Voe . 
We have seen no people since we arrived , so we came to this house to enquire our way . 
Are you hungry ? asked the woman's voice . 
I could eat something , said Dorothy . 
So could I , added Zeb . 
But we do not wish to intrude , I assure you , the Wizard hastened to say . 
That's all right , returned the man's voice , more pleasantly than before . 
You are welcome to what we have . 
As he spoke the voice came so near to Zeb that he jumped back in alarm . 
Two childish voices laughed merrily at this action , and Dorothy was sure they were in no danger among such light hearted folks , even if those folks couldn't be seen . 
What curious animal is that which is eating the grass on my lawn ? enquired the man's voice . 
That's Jim , said the girl . 
What is he good for ? was the next question . 
He draws the buggy you see fastened to him , and we ride in the buggy instead of walking , she explained . 
Can he fight ? asked the man's voice . 
No ! he can kick pretty hard with his heels , and bite a little but Jim can't 'zactly fight , she replied . 
Then the bears will get him , said one of the children's voices . 
Are these bears here ? That is the one evil of our country , answered the invisible man . 
Are the bears invis'ble , too ? asked the girl . 
Yes for they eat of the dama fruit , as we all do , and that keeps them from being seen by any eye , whether human or animal . 
Does the dama fruit grow on a low bush , and look something like a peach ? asked the Wizard . 
Yes , was the reply . 
If it makes you invis'ble , why do you eat it ? Dorothy enquired . 
For two reasons , my dear , the woman's voice answered . 
The dama fruit is the most delicious thing that grows , and when it makes us invisible the bears cannot find us to eat us up . 
But now , good wanderers , your luncheon is on the table , so please sit down and eat as much as you like . 
They Fight the Invisible Bears The strangers took their seats at the table willingly enough , for they were all hungry and the platters were now heaped with good things to eat . 
But Dorothy satisfied her hunger with other things , and her companions did likewise , resisting the temptation . 
Why do you not eat the damas ? asked the woman's voice . 
We don't want to get invis'ble , answered the girl . 
But if you remain visible the bears will see you and devour you , said a girlish young voice , that belonged to one of the children . 
We who live here much prefer to be invisible for we can still hug and kiss one another , and are quite safe from the bears . 
And we do not have to be so particular about our dress , remarked the man . 
And mama can't tell whether my face is dirty or not ! added the other childish voice , gleefully . 
Dorothy laughed and stretched out her hands . 
Come here , please Ianu and your sister and let me feel of you , she requested . 
The girl's hair was soft and fluffy and her skin as smooth as satin . 
When Dorothy gently touched her nose and ears and lips they seemed to be well and delicately formed . 
If I could see you I am sure you would be beautiful , she declared . 
Yet we can see and appreciate the beauties of nature , the dainty flowers and trees , the green fields and the clear blue of the sky . 
How about the birds and beasts and fishes ? asked Zeb . 
The birds we cannot see , because they love to eat of the damas as much as we do yet we hear their sweet songs and enjoy them . 
Neither can we see the cruel bears , for they also eat the fruit . 
But the fishes that swim in our brooks we can see , and often we catch them to eat . 
It occurs to me you have a great deal to make you happy , even while invisible , remarked the Wizard . 
Nevertheless , we prefer to remain visible while we are in your valley . 
To her surprise an unseen hand clutched her and held her suspended in the air . 
Eureka was frantic with terror , and tried to scratch and bite , so the next moment she was dropped to the floor , Did you see that , Dorothy ? she gasped . 
Yes , dear , her mistress replied there are people living in this house , although we cannot see them . 
And you must have better manners , Eureka , or something worse will happen to you . 
She placed a plate of food upon the floor and the kitten ate greedily . 
Give me that nice smelling fruit I saw on the table , she begged , when she had cleaned the plate . 
Those are damas , said Dorothy , and you must never even taste them , Eureka , or you'll get invis'ble , and then we can't see you at all . 
The kitten gazed wistfully at the forbidden fruit . 
Does it hurt to be invis'ble ? she asked . 
I don't know , Dorothy answered but it would hurt me dre'fully to lose you . 
Very well , I won't touch it , decided the kitten but you must keep it away from me , for the smell is very tempting . 
Oh , one can leave the Valley easily enough , answered the man's voice but to do so you must enter a far less pleasant country . 
As for reaching the top of the earth , I have never heard that it is possible to do that , and if you succeeded in getting there you would probably fall off . 
Oh , no , said Dorothy , we've been there , and we know . 
The Valley of Voe is certainly a charming place , resumed the Wizard but we cannot be contented in any other land than our own , for long . 
Even if we should come to unpleasant places on our way it is necessary , in order to reach the earth's surface , to keep moving on toward it . 
In that case , said the man , it will be best for you to cross our Valley and mount the spiral staircase inside the Pyramid Mountain . 
The top of that mountain is lost in the clouds , and when you reach it you will be in the awful Land of Naught , where the Gargoyles live . 
What are Gargoyles ? asked Zeb . 
I do not know , young sir . 
They can't be worse than the Wicked Witch or the Nome King . 
But you must remember you had the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman to help you conquer those enemies , suggested the Wizard . 
Just now , my dear , there is not a single warrior in your company . 
Oh , I guess Zeb could fight if he had to . 
Couldn't you , Zeb ? asked the little girl . 
Perhaps if I had to , answered Zeb , doubtfully . 
And you have the jointed sword that you chopped the veg'table Sorcerer in two with , the girl said to the little man . 
True , he replied and in my satchel are other useful things to fight with . 
What the Gargoyles most dread is a noise , said the man's voice . 
Our Champion told me that when he shouted his battle cry the creatures shuddered and drew back , hesitating to continue the combat . 
But they were in great numbers , and the Champion could not shout much because he had to save his breath for fighting . 
Very good , said the Wizard we can all yell better than we can fight , so we ought to defeat the Gargoyles . 
They followed the course of a broad stream and passed several more pretty cottages but of course they saw no one , nor did any one speak to them . 
Fruits and flowers grew plentifully all about , and there were many of the delicious damas that the people of Voe were so fond of . 
The Wizard got out his sword at once , and Zeb grabbed the horse whip . 
Dorothy climbed into the buggy , although Jim had been unharnessed from it and was grazing some distance away . 
The owner of the unseen voice laughed lightly and said You cannot escape the bears that way . 
How CAN we 'scape ? asked Dorothy , nervously , for an unseen danger is always the hardest to face . 
You must take to the river , was the reply . 
The bears will not venture upon the water . 
But we would be drowned ! exclaimed the girl . 
Oh , there is no need of that , said the voice , which from its gentle tones seemed to belong to a young girl . 
You are strangers in the Valley of Voe , and do not seem to know our ways so I will try to save you . 
The next moment a broad leaved plant was jerked from the ground where it grew and held suspended in the air before the Wizard . 
It is a secret the bears do not know , and we people of Voe usually walk upon the water when we travel , and so escape our enemies . 
Thank you ! cried the Wizard , joyfully , and at once rubbed a leaf upon the soles of Dorothy's shoes and then upon his own . 
He had nearly finished this last task when a low growling was suddenly heard and the horse began to jump around and kick viciously with his heels . 
The horse was plunging madly about , and two or three deep gashes appeared upon its flanks , from which the blood flowed freely . 
Run for the river ! shouted the Wizard , and Jim quickly freed himself from his unseen tormenters by a few vicious kicks and then obeyed . 
As soon as he trotted out upon the surface of the river he found himself safe from pursuit , and Zeb was already running across the water toward Dorothy . 
As the little Wizard turned to follow them he felt a hot breath against his cheek and heard a low , fierce growl . 
At once he began stabbing at the air with his sword , and he knew that he had struck some substance because when he drew back the blade it was dripping with blood . 
On the river , however , the adventurers seemed to be perfectly safe . 
Dorothy and the buggy had floated slowly down stream with the current of the water , and the others made haste to join her . 
The Wizard opened his satchel and got out some sticking plaster with which he mended the cuts Jim had received from the claws of the bears . 
I think we'd better stick to the river , after this , said Dorothy . 
If our unknown friend hadn't warned us , and told us what to do , we would all be dead by this time . 
That is true , agreed the Wizard , and as the river seems to be flowing in the direction of the Pyramid Mountain it will be the easiest way for us to travel . 
Zeb hitched Jim to the buggy again , and the horse trotted along and drew them rapidly over the smooth water . 
The kitten was at first dreadfully afraid of getting wet , but Dorothy let her down and soon Eureka was frisking along beside the buggy without being scared a bit . 
You'll have to make a dash , Jim , said the Wizard , and run as fast as you can go . 
All right , answered the horse I'll do my best . 
But you must remember I'm old , and my dashing days are past and gone . 
All three got into the buggy and Zeb picked up the reins , though Jim needed no guidance of any sort . 
Then Zeb , in a spirit of mischief , uttered a growl like that of the bears , and Jim pricked up his ears and fairly flew . 
His boney legs moved so fast they could scarcely be seen , and the Wizard clung fast to the seat and yelled Whoa ! at the top of his voice . 
I I'm 'fraid he's he's running away ! gasped Dorothy . 
I KNOW he is , said Zeb but no bear can catch him if he keeps up that gait and the harness or the buggy don't break . 
Dorothy nearly went with them , but she was holding fast to the iron rail of the seat , and that saved her . 
She squeezed the kitten , though , until it screeched and then the old cab horse made several curious sounds that led the little girl to suspect he was laughing at them all . 
The Braided Man of Pyramid Mountain The mountain before them was shaped like a cone and was so tall that its point was lost in the clouds . 
Directly facing the place where Jim had stopped was an arched opening leading to a broad stairway . 
At the foot of the stairs was a sign reading WARNING . 
These steps lead to the Land of the Gargoyles . 
I wonder how Jim is ever going to draw the buggy up so many stairs , said Dorothy , gravely . 
No trouble at all , declared the horse , with a contemptuous neigh . 
Still , I don't care to drag any passengers . 
You'll all have to walk . 
Suppose the stairs get steeper ? suggested Zeb , doubtfully . 
Then you'll have to boost the buggy wheels , that's all , answered Jim . 
We'll try it , anyway , said the Wizard . 
It's the only way to get out of the Valley of Voe . 
So they began to ascend the stairs , Dorothy and the Wizard first , Jim next , drawing the buggy , and then Zeb to watch that nothing happened to the harness . 
The light was dim , and soon they mounted into total darkness , so that the Wizard was obliged to get out his lanterns to light the way . 
But this enabled them to proceed steadily until they came to a landing where there was a rift in the side of the mountain that let in both light and air . 
Looking through this opening they could see the Valley of Voe lying far below them , the cottages seeming like toy houses from that distance . 
After resting a few moments they resumed their climb , and still the stairs were broad and low enough for Jim to draw the buggy easily after him . 
The old horse panted a little , and had to stop often to get his breath . 
At such times they were all glad to wait for him , for continually climbing up stairs is sure to make one's legs ache . 
They wound about , always going upward , for some time . 
The opening in the mountain was on the side opposite to the Valley of Voe , and our travellers looked out upon a strange scene . 
Below them was a vast space , at the bottom of which was a black sea with rolling billows , through which little tongues of flame constantly shot up . 
Just above them , and almost on a level with their platform , were banks of rolling clouds which constantly shifted position and changed color . 
The blues and greys were very beautiful , and Dorothy noticed that on the cloud banks sat or reclined fleecy , shadowy forms of beautiful beings who must have been the Cloud Fairies . 
Are they real ? asked Zeb , in an awed voice . 
Of course , replied Dorothy , softly . 
They are the Cloud Fairies . 
They seem like open work , remarked the boy , gazing intently . 
If I should squeeze one , there wouldn't be anything left of it . 
In the open space between the clouds and the black , bubbling sea far beneath , could be seen an occasional strange bird winging its way swiftly through the air . 
These birds were of enormous size , and reminded Zeb of the rocs he had read about in the Arabian Nights . 
They had fierce eyes and sharp talons and beaks , and the children hoped none of them would venture into the cavern . 
Well , I declare ! suddenly exclaimed the little Wizard . 
He was a very old man , bent nearly double but the queerest thing about him was his white hair and beard . 
Where did you come from ? asked Dorothy , wonderingly . 
No place at all , answered the man with the braids that is , not recently . 
Once I lived on top the earth , but for many years I have had my factory in this spot half way up Pyramid Mountain . 
Are we only half way up ? enquired the boy , in a discouraged tone . 
I believe so , my lad , replied the braided man . 
But as I have never been in either direction , down or up , since I arrived , I cannot be positive whether it is exactly half way or not . 
Have you a factory in this place ? asked the Wizard , who had been examining the strange personage carefully . 
To be sure , said the other . 
I am a great inventor , you must know , and I manufacture my products in this lonely spot . 
What are your products ? enquired the Wizard . 
Well , I make Assorted Flutters for flags and bunting , and a superior grade of Rustles for ladies' silk gowns . 
I thought so , said the Wizard , with a sigh . 
Here , on a broad shelf , were several card board boxes of various sizes , each tied with cotton cord . 
This , said the man , taking up a box and handling it gently , contains twelve dozen rustles enough to last any lady a year . 
Will you buy it , my dear ? he asked , addressing Dorothy . 
My gown isn't silk , she said , smiling . 
When you open the box the rustles will escape , whether you are wearing a silk dress or not , said the man , seriously . 
Then he picked up another box . 
In this , he continued , are many assorted flutters . 
They are invaluable to make flags flutter on a still day , when there is no wind . 
You , sir , turning to the Wizard , ought to have this assortment . 
Once you have tried my goods I am sure you will never be without them . 
I have no money with me , said the Wizard , evasively . 
I do not want money , returned the braided man , for I could not spend it in this deserted place if I had it . 
But I would like very much a blue hair ribbon . 
You will notice my braids are tied with yellow , pink , brown , red , green , white and black but I have no blue ribbons . 
I'll get you one ! cried Dorothy , who was sorry for the poor man so she ran back to the buggy and took from her suit case a pretty blue ribbon . 
It did her good to see how the braided man's eyes sparkled when he received this treasure . 
You may need them , some time , he said , and there is really no use in my manufacturing these things unless somebody uses them . 
Why did you leave the surface of the earth ? enquired the Wizard . 
I could not help it . 
It is a sad story , but if you will try to restrain your tears I will tell you about it . 
On earth I was a manufacturer of Imported Holes for American Swiss Cheese , and I will acknowledge that I supplied a superior article , which was in great demand . 
Also I made pores for porous plasters and high grade holes for doughnuts and buttons . 
Finally I invented a new Adjustable Post hole , which I thought would make my fortune . 
Here , then , I made my home and although it is a lonely place I amuse myself making rustles and flutters , and so get along very nicely . 
So they politely bade him good day , and went back to the outer cavern to resume their journey . 
They Meet the Wooden Gargoyles Another breathless climb brought our adventurers to a third landing where there was a rift in the mountain . 
On peering out all they could see was rolling banks of clouds , so thick that they obscured all else . 
But the travellers were obliged to rest , and while they were sitting on the rocky floor the Wizard felt in his pocket and brought out the nine tiny piglets . 
To his delight they were now plainly visible , which proved that they had passed beyond the influence of the magical Valley of Voe . 
Why , we can see each other again ! cried one , joyfully . 
Yes , sighed Eureka and I also can see you again , and the sight makes me dreadfully hungry . 
And we trusted you so ! said another of the nine , reproachfully . 
And thought you were respectable ! said another . 
It seems we were mistaken , declared a third , looking at the kitten timorously , no one with such murderous desires should belong to our party , I'm sure . 
You see , Eureka , remarked Dorothy , reprovingly , you are making yourself disliked . 
There are certain things proper for a kitten to eat but I never heard of a kitten eating a pig , under ANY cir'stances . 
Did you ever see such little pigs before ? asked the kitten . 
They are no bigger than mice , and I'm sure mice are proper for me to eat . 
It isn't the bigness , dear its the variety , replied the girl . 
And that's just what I shall do if you don't let those little balls of pork alone , said Jim , glaring at the kitten with his round , big eyes . 
If you injure any one of them I'll chew you up instantly . 
The kitten looked at the horse thoughtfully , as if trying to decide whether he meant it or not . 
In that case , she said , I'll leave them alone . 
You haven't many teeth left , Jim , but the few you have are sharp enough to make me shudder . 
So the piglets will be perfectly safe , hereafter , as far as I am concerned . 
That is right , Eureka , remarked the Wizard , earnestly . 
Let us all be a happy family and love one another . 
Eureka yawned and stretched herself . 
I've always loved the piglets , she said but they don't love me . 
No one can love a person he's afraid of , asserted Dorothy . 
If you behave , and don't scare the little pigs , I'm sure they'll grow very fond of you . 
The Wizard now put the nine tiny ones back into his pocket and the journey was resumed . 
We must be pretty near the top , now , said the boy , as they climbed wearily up the dark , winding stairway . 
The Country of the Gurgles can't be far from the top of the earth , remarked Dorothy . 
It isn't very nice down here . 
I'd like to get home again , I'm sure . 
No one replied to this , because they found they needed all their breath for the climb . 
The stairs had become narrower and Zeb and the Wizard often had to help Jim pull the buggy from one step to another , or keep it from jamming against the rocky walls . 
At last , however , a dim light appeared ahead of them , which grew clearer and stronger as they advanced . 
Thank goodness we're nearly there ! panted the little Wizard . 
Jim , who was in advance , saw the last stair before him and stuck his head above the rocky sides of the stairway . 
Then he halted , ducked down and began to back up , so that he nearly fell with the buggy onto the others . 
Let's go down again ! he said , in his hoarse voice . 
Nonsense ! snapped the tired Wizard . 
What's the matter with you , old man ? Everything , grumbled the horse . 
I've taken a look at this place , and it's no fit country for real creatures to go to . 
Everything's dead , up there no flesh or blood or growing thing anywhere . 
we can't turn back , said Dorothy and we don't intend to stay there , anyhow . 
It's dangerous , growled Jim , in a stubborn tone . 
See here , my good steed , broke in the Wizard , little Dorothy and I have been in many queer countries in our travels , and always escaped without harm . 
We've even been to the marvelous Land of Oz haven't we , Dorothy ? so we don't much care what the Country of the Gargoyles is like . 
Go ahead , Jim , and whatever happens we'll make the best of it . 
All right , answered the horse this is your excursion , and not mine so if you get into trouble don't blame me . 
With this speech he bent forward and dragged the buggy up the remaining steps . 
The others followed and soon they were all standing upon a broad platform and gazing at the most curious and startling sight their eyes had ever beheld . 
The Country of the Gargoyles is all wooden ! exclaimed Zeb and so it was . 
The ground was sawdust and the pebbles scattered around were hard knots from trees , worn smooth in course of time . 
There were odd wooden houses , with carved wooden flowers in the front yards . 
The tree trunks were of coarse wood , but the leaves of the trees were shavings . 
The patches of grass were splinters of wood , and where neither grass nor sawdust showed was a solid wooden flooring . 
Wooden birds fluttered among the trees and wooden cows were browsing upon the wooden grass but the most amazing things of all were the wooden people the creatures known as Gargoyles . 
The Gargoyles were very small of stature , being less than three feet in height . 
Their bodies were round , their legs short and thick and their arms extraordinarily long and stout . 
Their heads were too big for their bodies and their faces were decidedly ugly to look upon . 
Some had long , curved noses and chins , small eyes and wide , grinning mouths . 
Others had flat noses , protruding eyes , and ears that were shaped like those of an elephant . 
There were many types , indeed , scarcely two being alike but all were equally disagreeable in appearance . 
This noiseless motion was one of the most peculiar things about the Gargoyles . 
They made no sounds at all , either in flying or trying to speak , and they conversed mainly by means of quick signals made with their wooden fingers or lips . 
Neither was there any sound to be heard anywhere throughout the wooden country . 
The birds did not sing , nor did the cows moo yet there was more than ordinary activity everywhere . 
In turn the Wizard and the children , the horse and the kitten , examined the Gargoyles with the same silent attention . 
There's going to be trouble , I'm sure , remarked the horse . 
Unhitch those tugs , Zeb , and set me free from the buggy , so I can fight comfortably . 
Jim's right , sighed the Wizard . 
There's going to be trouble , and my sword isn't stout enough to cut up those wooden bodies so I shall have to get out my revolvers . 
He got his satchel from the buggy and , opening it , took out two deadly looking revolvers that made the children shrink back in alarm just to look at . 
What harm can the Gurgles do ? asked Dorothy . 
They have no weapons to hurt us with . 
Each of their arms is a wooden club , answered the little man , and I'm sure the creatures mean mischief , by the looks of their eyes . 
Even these revolvers can merely succeed in damaging a few of their wooden bodies , and after that we will be at their mercy . 
But why fight at all , in that case ? asked the girl . 
So I may die with a clear conscience , returned the Wizard , gravely . 
It's every man's duty to do the best he knows how and I'm going to do it . 
Wish I had an axe , said Zeb , who by now had unhitched the horse . 
If we had known we were coming we might have brought along several other useful things , responded the Wizard . 
But we dropped into this adventure rather unexpectedly . 
The Gargoyles had backed away a distance when they heard the sound of talking , for although our friends had spoken in low tones their words seemed loud in the silence surrounding them . 
The horse had especially attracted their notice , because it was the biggest and strangest creature they had ever seen so it became the center of their first attack . 
But Jim was ready for them , and when he saw them coming he turned his heels toward them and began kicking out as hard as he could . 
But the noise and clatter seemed as dreadful to them as Jim's heels , for all who were able swiftly turned and flew away to a great distance . 
The others picked themselves up from the ground one by one and quickly rejoined their fellows , so for a moment the horse thought he had won the fight with ease . 
But the Wizard was not so confident . 
Those wooden things are impossible to hurt , he said , and all the damage Jim has done to them is to knock a few splinters from their noses and ears . 
That cannot make them look any uglier , I'm sure , and it is my opinion they will soon renew the attack . 
What made them fly away ? asked Dorothy . 
The noise , of course . 
Don't you remember how the Champion escaped them by shouting his battle cry ? Suppose we escape down the stairs , too , suggested the boy . 
We have time , just now , and I'd rather face the invis'ble bears than those wooden imps . 
No , returned Dorothy , stoutly , it won't do to go back , for then we would never get home . 
That is what I advise , said the Wizard . 
They haven't defeated us yet , and Jim is worth a whole army . 
But the Gargoyles were clever enough not to attack the horse the next time . 
They advanced in a great swarm , having been joined by many more of their kind , and they flew straight over Jim's head to where the others were standing . 
The Wizard raised one of his revolvers and fired into the throng of his enemies , and the shot resounded like a clap of thunder in that silent place . 
Some of the wooden beings fell flat upon the ground , where they quivered and trembled in every limb but most of them managed to wheel and escape again to a distance . 
Zeb ran and picked up one of the Gargoyles that lay nearest to him . 
The top of its head was carved into a crown and the Wizard's bullet had struck it exactly in the left eye , which was a hard wooden knot . 
Before this crowned Gargoyle had recovered himself Zeb had wound a strap several times around its body , confining its wings and arms so that it could not move . 
Then , having tied the wooden creature securely , the boy buckled the strap and tossed his prisoner into the buggy . 
By that time the others had all retired . 
A Wonderful Escape For a while the enemy hesitated to renew the attack . 
Then a few of them advanced until another shot from the Wizard's revolver made them retreat . 
That's fine , said Zeb . 
We've got 'em on the run now , sure enough . 
But only for a time , replied the Wizard , shaking his head gloomily . 
These revolvers are good for six shots each , but when those are gone we shall be helpless . 
The Gargoyles seemed to realize this , for they sent a few of their band time after time to attack the strangers and draw the fire from the little man's revolvers . 
What shall we do now ? asked Dorothy , anxiously . 
Let's yell all together , said Zeb . 
And fight at the same time , added the Wizard . 
We will get near Jim , so that he can help us , and each one must take some weapon and do the best he can . 
I'll use my sword , although it isn't much account in this affair . 
Dorothy must take her parasol and open it suddenly when the wooden folks attack her . 
I haven't anything for you , Zeb . 
I'll use the king , said the boy , and pulled his prisoner out of the buggy . 
The bound Gargoyle's arms extended far out beyond its head , so by grasping its wrists Zeb found the king made a very good club . 
The boy was strong for one of his years , having always worked upon a farm so he was likely to prove more dangerous to the enemy than the Wizard . 
When the next company of Gargoyles advanced , our adventurers began yelling as if they had gone mad . 
Even the kitten gave a dreadfully shrill scream and at the same time Jim the cab horse neighed loudly . 
This daunted the enemy for a time , but the defenders were soon out of breath . 
Dorothy squatted upon the ground and put up her parasol , which nearly covered her and proved a great protection . 
The Wizard's sword blade snapped into a dozen pieces at the first blow he struck against the wooden people . 
The horse performed some wonderful kicking and even Eureka assisted when she leaped bodily upon the Gargoyles and scratched and bit at them like a wild cat . 
But all this bravery amounted to nothing at all . 
The wooden things wound their long arms around Zeb and the Wizard and held them fast . 
Dorothy was captured in the same way , and numbers of the Gargoyles clung to Jim's legs , so weighting him down that the poor beast was helpless . 
Eureka made a desperate dash to escape and scampered along the ground like a streak but a grinning Gargoyle flew after her and grabbed her before she had gone very far . 
The houses of this city had many corners , being square and six sided and eight sided . 
They were tower like in shape and the best of them seemed old and weather worn yet all were strong and substantial . 
To one of these houses which had neither doors nor windows , but only one broad opening far up underneath the roof , the prisoners were brought by their captors . 
The Gargoyles roughly pushed them into the opening , where there was a platform , and then flew away and left them . 
As they had no wings the strangers could not fly away , and if they jumped down from such a height they would surely be killed . 
The creatures had sense enough to reason that way , and the only mistake they made was in supposing the earth people were unable to overcome such ordinary difficulties . 
When Eureka's captor had thrown the kitten after the others the last Gargoyle silently disappeared , leaving our friends to breathe freely once more . 
What an awful fight ! said Dorothy , catching her breath in little gasps . 
Oh , I don't know , purred Eureka , smoothing her ruffled fur with her paw we didn't manage to hurt anybody , and nobody managed to hurt us . 
Thank goodness we are together again , even if we are prisoners , sighed the little girl . 
I wonder why they didn't kill us on the spot , remarked Zeb , who had lost his king in the struggle . 
They are probably keeping us for some ceremony , the Wizard answered , reflectively but there is no doubt they intend to kill us as dead as possible in a short time . 
As dead as poss'ble would be pretty dead , wouldn't it ? asked Dorothy . 
But we have no need to worry about that just now . 
Let us examine our prison and see what it is like . 
Everything visible was made of wood , and the scene seemed stiff and extremely unnatural . 
From their platform a stair descended into the house , and the children and the Wizard explored it after lighting a lantern to show them the way . 
Several stories of empty rooms rewarded their search , but nothing more so after a time they came back to the platform again . 
In this country , as in all others they had visited underneath the earth's surface , there was no night , a constant and strong light coming from some unknown source . 
This seems to be their time of rest , observed the Wizard . 
I feel sleepy myself , remarked Zeb , yawning . 
Why , where's Eureka ? cried Dorothy , suddenly . 
They all looked around , but the kitten was no place to be seen . 
She's gone out for a walk , said Jim , gruffly . 
Where ? On the roof ? asked the girl . 
No she just dug her claws into the wood and climbed down the sides of this house to the ground . 
She couldn't climb DOWN , Jim , said Dorothy . 
To climb means to go up . 
Who said so ? demanded the horse . 
My school teacher said so and she knows a lot , Jim . 
To 'climb down' is sometimes used as a figure of speech , remarked the Wizard . 
Well , this was a figure of a cat , said Jim , and she WENT down , anyhow , whether she climbed or crept . 
Dear me ! how careless Eureka is , exclaimed the girl , much distressed . 
The Gurgles will get her , sure ! Ha , ha ! chuckled the old cab horse they're not 'Gurgles , little maid they're Gargoyles . 
Never mind they'll get Eureka , whatever they're called . 
No they won't , said the voice of the kitten , and Eureka herself crawled over the edge of the platform and sat down quietly upon the floor . 
Wherever have you been , Eureka ? asked Dorothy , sternly . 
They're too funny for anything , Dorothy . 
Just now they are all going to bed , and what do you think ? they unhook the hinges of their wings and put them in a corner until they wake up again . 
What , the hinges ? No the wings . 
That , said Zeb , explains why this house is used by them for a prison . 
The Wizard had listened intently to what Eureka had said . 
I wish we had some of those loose wings , he said . 
Could we fly with them ? asked Dorothy . 
If the Gargoyles can unhook the wings then the power to fly lies in the wings themselves , and not in the wooden bodies of the people who wear them . 
So , if we had the wings , we could probably fly as well as they do as least while we are in their country and under the spell of its magic . 
But how would it help us to be able to fly ? questioned the girl . 
Come here , said the little man , and took her to one of the corners of the building . 
Do you see that big rock standing on the hillside yonder ? he continued , pointing with his finger . 
Yes it's a good way off , but I can see it , she replied . 
I'll get my spy glass , and then you can see it more plainly . 
He fetched a small but powerful telescope , which had been in his satchel , and by its aid the little girl clearly saw the opening . 
Where does it lead to ? she asked . 
So , if we had the wings , and could escape the Gargoyles , we might fly to that rock and be saved . 
I'll get you the wings , said Zeb , who had thoughtfully listened to all this . 
That is , if the kitten will show me where they are . 
But how can you get down ? enquired the girl , wonderingly . 
I can climb down that , all right , he said . 
No you can't , remarked Jim , with a twinkle in his round eyes . 
You may GO down , but you can only CLIMB up . 
Well , I'll climb up when I get back , then , said the boy , with a laugh . 
Now , Eureka , you'll have to show me the way to those wings . 
You must be very quiet , warned the kitten for if you make the least noise the Gargoyles will wake up . 
They can hear a pin drop . 
I'm not going to drop a pin , said Zeb . 
He had fastened one end of the strap to a wheel of the buggy , and now he let the line dangle over the side of the house . 
Be careful , cautioned Dorothy , earnestly . 
I will , said the boy , and let himself slide over the edge . 
The girl and the Wizard leaned over and watched Zeb work his way carefully downward , hand over hand , until he stood upon the ground below . 
Eureka clung with her claws to the wooden side of the house and let herself down easily . 
Then together they crept away to enter the low doorway of a neighboring dwelling . 
The watchers waited in breathless suspense until the boy again appeared , his arms now full of the wooden wings . 
When he came to where the strap was hanging he tied the wings all in a bunch to the end of the line , and the Wizard drew them up . 
Then the line was let down again for Zeb to climb up by . 
Eureka quickly followed him , and soon they were all standing together upon the platform , with eight of the much prized wooden wings beside them . 
The boy was no longer sleepy , but full of energy and excitement . 
He put the harness together again and hitched Jim to the buggy . 
Then , with the Wizard's help , he tried to fasten some of the wings to the old cab horse . 
They were a bit wiggley , but secure enough if only the harness held together . 
So the prisoners resolved to leave their prison at once . 
They mounted into the buggy , Dorothy holding Eureka safe in her lap . 
The girl sat in the middle of the seat , with Zeb and the Wizard on each side of her . 
When all was ready the boy shook the reins and said Fly away , Jim ! Which wings must I flop first ? asked the cab horse , undecidedly . 
Flop them all together , suggested the Wizard . 
Some of them are crooked , objected the horse . 
Never mind we will steer with the wings on the buggy , said Zeb . 
Just you light out and make for that rock , Jim and don't waste any time about it , either . 
So the horse gave a groan , flopped its four wings all together , and flew away from the platform . 
The main point , however , was that they flew , and flew swiftly , if a bit unevenly , toward the rock for which they had headed . 
The Den of the Dragonettes Our friends had a good start and were able to maintain it , for with their eight wings they could go just as fast as could the Gargoyles . 
All the way to the great rock the wooden people followed them , and when Jim finally alighted at the mouth of the cavern the pursuers were still some distance away . 
But , I'm afraid they'll catch us yet , said Dorothy , greatly excited . 
No we must stop them , declared the Wizard . 
Then he poured over them all the kerosene oil that was left in his oil can , and lighting a match set fire to the pile . 
The flames leaped up at once and the bonfire began to smoke and roar and crackle just as the great army of wooden Gargoyles arrived . 
That will prove a barrier for some time to come , said the little man , smiling pleasantly all over his wrinkled face at the success of their stratagem . 
Perhaps the flames will set fire to all that miserable wooden country , and if it does the loss will be very small and the Gargoyles never will be missed . 
To their disappointment there was within this mountain no regular flight of steps by means of which they could mount to the earth's surface . 
A sort of inclined tunnel led upward for a way , and they found the floor of it both rough and steep . 
Then a sudden turn brought them to a narrow gallery where the buggy could not pass . 
This delayed and bothered them for a while , because they did not wish to leave the buggy behind them . 
So Zeb and the Wizard set to work and took off the wheels and the top , and then they put the buggy edgewise , so it would take up the smallest space . 
In this position they managed , with the aid of the patient cab horse , to drag the vehicle through the narrow part of the passage . 
It was not a great distance , fortunately , and when the path grew broader they put the buggy together again and proceeded more comfortably . 
Anyhow , said Dorothy , we've 'scaped those awful Gurgles , and that's ONE comfort ! Probably the Gargoyles are still busy trying to put out the fire , returned the Wizard . 
But even if they succeeded in doing that it would be very difficult for them to fly amongst these rocks so I am sure we need fear them no longer . 
Sometimes they had to climb over heaps of loose rock , where Jim could scarcely drag the buggy . 
The cave was circular in shape , and all around its edge , near to the ground , appeared groups of dull yellow lights , two of them being always side by side . 
These were motionless at first , but soon began to flicker more brightly and to sway slowly from side to side and then up and down . 
What sort of place is this ? asked the boy , trying to see more clearly through the gloom . 
I cannot imagine , I'm sure , answered the Wizard , also peering about . 
Tell us , dear , what do the creatures look like ? she asked , addressing her pet . 
I simply can't describe 'em , answered the kitten , shuddering . 
Their eyes are like pie plates and their mouths like coal scuttles . 
But their bodies don't seem very big . 
Where are they ? enquired the girl . 
They are in little pockets all around the edge of this cavern . 
Oh , Dorothy you can't imagine what horrid things they are ! They're uglier than the Gargoyles . 
Tut tut ! be careful how you criticise your neighbors , spoke a rasping voice near by . 
As a matter of fact you are rather ugly looking creatures yourselves , and I'm sure mother has often told us we were the loveliest and prettiest things in all the world . 
Hearing these words our friends turned in the direction of the sound , and the Wizard held his lanterns so that their light would flood one of the little pockets in the rock . 
Why , it's a dragon ! he exclaimed . 
No , answered the owner of the big yellow eyes which were blinking at them so steadily you are wrong about that . 
We hope to grow to be dragons some day , but just now we're only dragonettes . 
What's that ? asked Dorothy , gazing fearfully at the great scaley head , the yawning mouth and the big eyes . 
Young dragons , of course but we are not allowed to call ourselves real dragons until we get our full growth , was the reply . 
The big dragons are very proud , and don't think children amount to much but mother says that some day we will all be very powerful and important . 
Where is your mother ? asked the Wizard , anxiously looking around . 
She has gone up to the top of the earth to hunt for our dinner . 
If she has good luck she will bring us an elephant , or a brace of rhinoceri , or perhaps a few dozen people to stay our hunger . 
Oh are you hungry ? enquired Dorothy , drawing back . 
Very , said the dragonette , snapping its jaws . 
And and do you eat people ? To be sure , when we can get them . 
But they've been very scarce for a few years and we usually have to be content with elephants or buffaloes , answered the creature , in a regretful tone . 
How old are you ? enquired Zeb , who stared at the yellow eyes as if fascinated . 
Quite young , I grieve to say and all of my brothers and sisters that you see here are practically my own age . 
If I remember rightly , we were sixty six years old the day before yesterday . 
But that isn't young ! cried Dorothy , in amazement . 
No ? drawled the dragonette it seems to me very babyish . 
How old is your mother ? asked the girl . 
Mother's about two thousand years old but she carelessly lost track of her age a few centuries ago and skipped several hundreds . 
She's a little fussy , you know , and afraid of growing old , being a widow and still in her prime . 
I should think she would be , agreed Dorothy . 
If you choose to come nearer we will make a mouthful of you in a wink but unless you do you will remain quite safe . 
There was a regretful accent in the creature's voice , and at the words all the other dragonettes sighed dismally . 
No , indeed ! said the little girl . 
We don't wish to be eaten by such awful beasts . 
Permit me to say , returned the dragonette , that you are rather impolite to call us names , knowing that we cannot resent your insults . 
We consider ourselves very beautiful in appearance , for mother has told us so , and she knows . 
If it isn't I'll have to stand it , that's all . 
Tastes differ , murmured the dragonette , slowly drooping its scaley eyelids over its yellow eyes , until they looked like half moons . 
Being reassured by the fact that the creatures could not crawl out of their rock pockets , the children and the Wizard now took time to examine them more closely . 
The heads of the dragonettes were as big as barrels and covered with hard , greenish scales that glittered brightly under the light of the lanterns . 
It occurs to me , said the Wizard , that we ought to get out of this place before the mother dragon comes back . 
Don't hurry , called one of the dragonettes mother will be glad to meet you , I'm sure . 
You may be right , replied the Wizard , but we're a little particular about associating with strangers . 
Will you kindly tell us which way your mother went to get on top the earth ? That is not a fair question to ask us , declared another dragonette . 
For , if we told you truly , you might escape us altogether and if we told you an untruth we would be naughty and deserve to be punished . 
Then , decided Dorothy , we must find our way out the best we can . 
But at length they came unexpectedly upon a huge rock that shut off the passage and blocked them from proceeding a single step farther . 
This rock was separate from the rest of the mountain and was in motion , turning slowly around and around as if upon a pivot . 
When first they came to it there was a solid wall before them but presently it revolved until there was exposed a wide , smooth path across it to the other side . 
This appeared so unexpectedly that they were unprepared to take advantage of it at first , and allowed the rocky wall to swing around again before they had decided to pass over . 
But they knew now that there was a means of escape and so waited patiently until the path appeared for the second time . 
The children and the Wizard rushed across the moving rock and sprang into the passage beyond , landing safely though a little out of breath . 
They heard a crunching , grinding sound , a loud snap , and the turn table came to a stop with its broadest surface shutting off the path from which they had come . 
Never mind , said Zeb , we don't want to get back , anyhow . 
I'm not so sure of that , returned Dorothy . 
The mother dragon may come down and catch us here . 
It is possible , agreed the Wizard , if this proves to be the path she usually takes . 
But I have been examining this tunnel , and I do not see any signs of so large a beast having passed through it . 
Then we're all right , said the girl , for if the dragon went the other way she can't poss'bly get to us now . 
Of course not , my dear . 
But there is another thing to consider . 
The mother dragon probably knows the road to the earth's surface , and if she went the other way then we have come the wrong way , said the Wizard , thoughtfully . 
Dear me ! cried Dorothy . 
That would be unlucky , wouldn't it ? Very . 
Unless this passage also leads to the top of the earth , said Zeb . 
For my part , if we manage to get out of here I'll be glad it isn't the way the dragon goes . 
So will I , returned Dorothy . 
It's enough to have your pedigree flung in your face by those saucy dragonettes . 
No one knows what the mother might do . 
They now moved on again , creeping slowly up another steep incline . 
The lanterns were beginning to grow dim , and the Wizard poured the remaining oil from one into the other , so that the one light would last longer . 
But their journey was almost over , for in a short time they reached a small cave from which there was no further outlet . 
But when the adventurers looked more carefully around them they discovered that there were in a strong prison from which there was no hope of escape . 
But we're ALMOST on earth again , cried Dorothy , for there is the sun the most BEAU'FUL sun that shines ! and she pointed eagerly at the crack in the distant roof . 
Almost on earth isn't being there , said the kitten , in a discontented tone . 
It wouldn't be possible for even me to get up to that crack or through it if I got there . 
It appears that the path ends here , announced the Wizard , gloomily . 
And there is no way to go back , added Zeb , with a low whistle of perplexity . 
I was sure it would come to this , in the end , remarked the old cab horse . 
Folks don't fall into the middle of the earth and then get back again to tell of their adventures not in real life . 
And the whole thing has been unnatural because that cat and I are both able to talk your language , and to understand the words you say . 
And so can the nine tiny piglets , added Eureka . 
Don't forget them , for I may have to eat them , after all . 
I've heard animals talk before , said Dorothy , and no harm came of it . 
Were you ever before shut up in a cave , far under the earth , with no way of getting out ? enquired the horse , seriously . 
But don't you lose heart , Jim , for I'm sure this isn't the end of our story , by any means . 
The reference to the piglets reminded the Wizard that his pets had not enjoyed much exercise lately , and must be tired of their prison in his pocket . 
So he sat down upon the floor of the cave , brought the piglets out one by one , and allowed them to run around as much as they pleased . 
My dears , he said to them , I'm afraid I've got you into a lot of trouble , and that you will never again be able to leave this gloomy cave . 
What's wrong ? asked a piglet . 
We've been in the dark quite a while , and you may as well explain what has happened . 
The Wizard told them of the misfortune that had overtaken the wanderers . 
Well , said another piglet , you are a wizard , are you not ? I am , replied the little man . 
Then you can do a few wizzes and get us out of this hole , declared the tiny one , with much confidence . 
I could if I happened to be a real wizard , returned the master sadly . 
But I'm not , my piggy wees I'm a humbug wizard . 
Nonsense ! cried several of the piglets , together . 
You can ask Dorothy , said the little man , in an injured tone . 
It's true enough , returned the girl , earnestly . 
Our friend Oz is merely a humbug wizard , for he once proved it to me . 
He can do several very wonderful things if he knows how . 
But he can't wiz a single thing if he hasn't the tools and machinery to work with . 
Thank you , my dear , for doing me justice , responded the Wizard , gratefully . 
To be accused of being a real wizard , when I'm not , is a slander I will not tamely submit to . 
I don't believe we'll realize anything , when it comes to that , remarked Dorothy , who had been deep in thought . 
But I'm not going to scatter my bones just yet , because I need them , and you prob'ly need yours , too . 
We are helpless to escape , sighed the Wizard . 
WE may be helpless , answered Dorothy , smiling at him , but there are others who can do more than we can . 
I'm sure Ozma will help us . 
Ozma ! exclaimed the Wizard . 
Who is Ozma ? The girl that rules the marvelous Land of Oz , was the reply . 
She's a friend of mine , for I met her in the Land of Ev , not long ago , and went to Oz with her . 
For the second time ? asked the Wizard , with great interest . 
The first time I went to Oz I found you there , ruling the Emerald City . 
After you went up in a balloon , and escaped us , I got back to Kansas by means of a pair of magical silver shoes . 
I remember those shoes , said the little man , nodding . 
They once belonged to the Wicked Witch . 
Have you them here with you ? No I lost them somewhere in the air , explained the child . 
But the second time I went to the Land of Oz I owned the Nome King's Magic Belt , which is much more powerful than were the Silver Shoes . 
Where is that Magic Belt ? enquired the Wizard , who had listened with great interest . 
Ozma has it for its powers won't work in a common , ordinary country like the United States . 
And were you ? asked Zeb , astonished at what he heard . 
Of course in just a jiffy . 
And Ozma has an enchanted picture hanging in her room that shows her the exact scene where any of her friends may be , at any time she chooses . 
All she has to do is to say 'I wonder what So and so is doing , and at once the picture shows where her friend is and what the friend is doing . 
Do you mean that Princess Ozma will see this cave in her enchanted picture , and see all of us here , and what we are doing ? demanded Zeb . 
Of course when it is four o'clock , she replied , with a laugh at his startled expression . 
And when you make a sign she will bring you to her in the Land of Oz ? continued the boy . 
That's it , exactly by means of the Magic Belt . 
Then , said the Wizard , you will be saved , little Dorothy and I am very glad of it . 
The rest of us will die much more cheerfully when we know you have escaped our sad fate . 
I won't die cheerfully ! protested the kitten . 
There's nothing cheerful about dying that I could ever see , although they say a cat has nine lives , and so must die nine times . 
Have you ever died yet ? enquired the boy . 
No , and I'm not anxious to begin , said Eureka . 
Don't worry , dear , Dorothy exclaimed , I'll hold you in my arms , and take you with me . 
Take us , too ! cried the nine tiny piglets , all in one breath . 
Perhaps I can , answered Dorothy . 
Couldn't you manage to hold me in your arms ? asked the cab horse . 
I'll do better than that , she promised , for I can easily save you all , once I am myself in the Land of Oz . 
By using the Magic Belt . 
All I need do is to wish you with me , and there you'll be safe in the royal palace ! Good ! cried Zeb . 
Who are they ? asked the boy . 
The four nations that inhabit the Land of Oz , was the reply . 
I wonder if they would treat me nicely if I went there again . 
Of course they would ! declared Dorothy . 
They are still proud of their former Wizard , and often speak of you kindly . 
Do you happen to know whatever became of the Tin Woodman and the Scarecrow ? he enquired . 
They live in Oz yet , said the girl , and are very important people . 
I'm afraid I don't know the Hungry Tiger and Billina , said the Wizard , shaking his head . 
Is Billina a girl ? No she's a yellow hen , and a great friend of mine . 
You're sure to like Billina , when you know her , asserted Dorothy . 
Your friends sound like a menagerie , remarked Zeb , uneasily . 
Couldn't you wish me in some safer place than Oz . 
Don't worry , replied the girl . 
You'll just love the folks in Oz , when you get acquainted . 
What time is it , Mr. Wizard ? The little man looked at his watch a big silver one that he carried in his vest pocket . 
Half past three , he said . 
Then we must wait for half an hour , she continued but it won't take long , after that , to carry us all to the Emerald City . 
They sat silently thinking for a time . 
Then Jim suddenly asked Are there any horses in Oz ? Only one , replied Dorothy , and he's a sawhorse . 
A what ? A sawhorse . 
Princess Ozma once brought him to life with a witch powder , when she was a boy . 
Was Ozma once a boy ? asked Zeb , wonderingly . 
Yes a wicked witch enchanted her , so she could not rule her kingdom . 
But she's a girl now , and the sweetest , loveliest girl in all the world . 
A sawhorse is a thing they saw boards on , remarked Jim , with a sniff . 
It is when it's not alive , acknowledged the girl . 
But this sawhorse can trot as fast as you can , Jim and he's very wise , too . 
Pah ! I'll race the miserable wooden donkey any day in the week ! cried the cab horse . 
Dorothy did not reply to that . 
She felt that Jim would know more about the Saw Horse later on . 
Nothing seems to happen , said Zeb , doubtfully . 
Oh , we must give Ozma time to put on the Magic Belt , replied the girl . 
She had scarcely spoken the words then she suddenly disappeared from the cave , and with her went the kitten . 
There had been no sound of any kind and no warning . 
Let us be ready , for we may be sent for any minute . 
He put the piglets safely away in his pocket again and then he and Zeb got into the buggy and sat expectantly upon the seat . 
Will it hurt ? asked the boy , in a voice that trembled a little . 
Not at all , replied the Wizard . 
It will all happen as quick as a wink . 
And that was the way it did happen . 
The cab horse gave a nervous start and Zeb began to rub his eyes to make sure he was not asleep . 
Zeb shook the reins to rouse the cab horse from his stupor of amazement , for the people were beginning to gather around and stare at the strangers . 
Gid dap ! cried the boy , and at the word Jim slowly trotted into the courtyard and drew the buggy along the jewelled driveway to the great entrance of the royal palace . 
On my word , he exclaimed , it's little Jellia Jamb as pert and pretty as ever ! Why not , Mr. Wizard ? asked Jellia , bowing low . 
But I'm afraid you cannot rule the Emerald City , as you used to , because we now have a beautiful Princess whom everyone loves dearly . 
And the people will not willingly part with her , added a tall soldier in a Captain General's uniform . 
The Wizard turned to look at him . 
Did you not wear green whiskers at one time ? he asked . 
Yes , said the soldier but I shaved them off long ago , and since then I have risen from a private to be the Chief General of the Royal Armies . 
That's nice , said the little man . 
But I assure you , my good people , that I do not wish to rule the Emerald City , he added , earnestly . 
In that case you are very welcome ! cried all the servants , and it pleased the Wizard to note the respect with which the royal retainers bowed before him . 
His fame had not been forgotten in the Land of Oz , by any means . 
Where is Dorothy ? enquired Zeb , anxiously , as he left the buggy and stood beside his friend the little Wizard . 
She is with the Princess Ozma , in the private rooms of the palace , replied Jellia Jamb . 
But she has ordered me to make you welcome and to show you to your apartments . 
The boy looked around him with wondering eyes . 
What's to become of me ? asked the horse , uneasily . 
He had seen considerable of life in the cities in his younger days , and knew that this regal palace was no place for him . 
It perplexed even Jellia Jamb , for a time , to know what to do with the animal . 
There are no stables here , said the Wizard , unless some have been built since I went away . 
Do you mean that I'm a freak ? asked Jim , angrily . 
Oh , no , she hastened to say , there may be many more like you in the place you came from , but in Oz any horse but a Sawhorse is unusual . 
So Zeb unharnessed Jim , and several of the servants then led the horse around to the rear , where they selected a nice large apartment that he could have all to himself . 
Then Jellia said to the Wizard Your own room which was back of the great Throne Room has been vacant ever since you left us . 
Would you like it again ? Yes , indeed ! returned the little man . 
It will seem like being at home again , for I lived in that room for many , many years . 
He knew the way to it , and a servant followed him , carrying his satchel . 
Zeb was also escorted to a room so grand and beautiful that he almost feared to sit in the chairs or lie upon the bed , lest he might dim their splendor . 
Here he found Dorothy seated beside a young girl so marvelously beautiful that the boy stopped suddenly with a gasp of admiration . 
But Dorothy sprang up and ran to seize her friend's hand drawing him impulsively toward the lovely Princess , who smiled most graciously upon her guest . 
Then the Wizard entered , and his presence relieved the boy's embarrassment . 
The little man was clothed in black velvet , with many sparkling emerald ornaments decorating his breast but his bald head and wrinkled features made him appear more amusing than impressive . 
It is a matter that I have long wished to enquire about , because you are of a strange race and my own name is Ozma . 
No , one , I am sure , is better able to explain this mystery than you . 
That is true , answered the little Wizard therefore it will give me pleasure to explain my connection with your country . 
Taken altogether , it was a dreadfully long name to weigh down a poor innocent child , and one of the hardest lessons I ever learned was to remember my own name . 
Surely no one could blame you for cutting your name short , said Ozma , sympathetically . 
But didn't you cut it almost too short ? Perhaps so , replied the Wizard . 
When a young man I ran away from home and joined a circus . 
I used to call myself a Wizard , and do tricks of ventriloquism . 
What does that mean ? asked the Princess . 
Throwing my voice into any object I pleased , to make it appear that the object was speaking instead of me . 
Also I began to make balloon ascensions . 
On my balloon and on all the other articles I used in the circus I painted the two initials 'O . 
Z. , to show that those things belonged to me . 
One day my balloon ran away with me and brought me across the deserts to this beautiful country . 
When the people saw me come from the sky they naturally thought me some superior creature , and bowed down before me . 
I told them I was a Wizard , and showed them some easy tricks that amazed them and when they saw the initials painted on the balloon they called me Oz . 
Now I begin to understand , said the Princess , smiling . 
But the people thought my power was greater than that of the Witches and perhaps the Witches thought so too , for they never dared oppose me . 
Over this Land I ruled in peace for many years , until I grew old and longed to see my native city once again . 
So when Dorothy was first blown to this place by a cyclone I arranged to go away with her in a balloon but the balloon escaped too soon and carried me back alone . 
After many adventures I reached Omaha , only to find that all my old friends were dead or had moved away . 
So , having nothing else to do , I joined a circus again , and made my balloon ascensions until the earthquake caught me . 
Then the Witches divided up the kingdom , and ruled the four parts of it until you came here . 
That was why the people were so glad to see you , and why they thought from your initials that you were their rightful ruler . 
But , at that time , said the Wizard , thoughtfully , there were two Good Witches and two Wicked Witches ruling in the land . 
Yes , replied Ozma , because a good Witch had conquered Mombi in the North and Glinda the Good had conquered the evil Witch in the South . 
But Mombi was still my grandfather's jailor , and afterward my father's jailor . 
When I was born she transformed me into a boy , hoping that no one would ever recognize me and know that I was the rightful Princess of the Land of Oz . 
But I escaped from her and am now the Ruler of my people . 
I am very glad of that , said the Wizard , and hope you will consider me one of your most faithful and devoted subjects . 
We owe a great deal to the Wonderful Wizard , continued the Princess , for it was you who built this splendid Emerald City . 
Your people built it , he answered . 
I only bossed the job , as we say in Omaha . 
But you ruled it wisely and well for many years , said she , and made the people proud of your magical art . 
So , as you are now too old to wander abroad and work in a circus , I offer you a home here as long as you live . 
You shall be the Official Wizard of my kingdom , and be treated with every respect and consideration . 
It meant a good deal to him to secure a home like this . 
He's only a humbug Wizard , though , said Dorothy , smiling at him . 
And that is the safest kind of a Wizard to have , replied Ozma , promptly . 
Oz can do some good tricks , humbug or no humbug , announced Zeb , who was now feeling more at ease . 
He shall amuse us with his tricks tomorrow , said the Princess . 
I have sent messengers to summon all of Dorothy's old friends to meet her and give her welcome , and they ought to arrive very soon , now . 
Indeed , the dinner was no sooner finished than in rushed the Scarecrow , to hug Dorothy in his padded arms and tell her how glad he was to see her again . 
The Wizard was also most heartily welcomed by the straw man , who was an important personage in the Land of Oz . 
How are your brains ? enquired the little humbug , as he grasped the soft , stuffed hands of his old friend . 
Working finely , answered the Scarecrow . 
How long did you rule the Emerald City , after I left here ? was the next question . 
Quite awhile , until I was conquered by a girl named General Jinjur . 
But Ozma soon conquered her , with the help of Glinda the Good , and after that I went to live with Nick Chopper , the Tin Woodman . 
Just then a loud cackling was heard outside and , when a servant threw open the door with a low bow , a yellow hen strutted in . 
Dorothy sprang forward and caught the fluffy fowl in her arms , uttering at the same time a glad cry . 
Oh , Billina ! she said how fat and sleek you've grown . 
Why shouldn't I ? asked the hen , in a sharp , clear voice . 
I live on the fat of the land don't I , Ozma ? You have everything you wish for , said the Princess . 
Around Billina's neck was a string of beautiful pearls , and on her legs were bracelets of emeralds . 
She nestled herself comfortably in Dorothy's lap until the kitten gave a snarl of jealous anger and leaped up with a sharp claw fiercely bared to strike Billina a blow . 
But the little girl gave the angry kitten such a severe cuff that it jumped down again without daring to scratch . 
How horrid of you , Eureka ! cried Dorothy . 
Is that the way to treat my friends ? You have queer friends , seems to me , replied the kitten , in a surly tone . 
Seems to me the same way , said Billina , scornfully , if that beastly cat is one of them . 
Look here ! said Dorothy , sternly . 
So , there ! They were both much frightened at the threat , and promised meekly to be good . 
But it was never noticed that they became very warm friends , for all of that . 
And now the Tin Woodman arrived , his body most beautifully nickle plated , so that it shone splendidly in the brilliant light of the room . 
The Tin Woodman loved Dorothy most tenderly , and welcomed with joy the return of the little old Wizard . 
Sir , said he to the latter , I never can thank you enough for the excellent heart you once gave me . 
It has made me many friends , I assure you , and it beats as kindly and lovingly today as it every did . 
I'm glad to hear that , said the Wizard . 
I was afraid it would get moldy in that tin body of yours . 
Not at all , returned Nick Chopper . 
It keeps finely , being preserved in my air tight chest . 
But he became nervous again when the next visitor was announced . 
Ah , said the Wizard I'm pleased to meet so distinguished a personage . 
H. M. , said the Woggle Bug , pompously , means Highly Magnified and T. E. means Thoroughly Educated . 
I am , in reality , a very big bug , and doubtless the most intelligent being in all this broad domain . 
How well you disguise it , said the Wizard . 
But I don't doubt your word in the least . 
Jim accepted it as a mere detail , and at his command the attendants gave his coat a good rubbing , combed his mane and tail , and washed his hoofs and fetlocks . 
Then they told him dinner would be served directly and he replied that they could not serve it too quickly to suit his convenience . 
First they brought him a steaming bowl of soup , which the horse eyed in dismay . 
Take that stuff away ! he commanded . 
Do you take me for a salamander ? They obeyed at once , and next served a fine large turbot on a silver platter , with drawn gravy poured over it . 
Fish ! cried Jim , with a sniff . 
Well , well ! said the horse , now thoroughly provoked . 
You are at least six feet high , and that is higher than any other animal in this country , said the Steward . 
Well , my Highness would like some oats , declared the horse . 
Oats ? We have no whole oats , the Steward replied , with much deference . 
But there is any quantity of oatmeal , which we often cook for breakfast . 
Oatmeal is a breakfast dish , added the Steward , humbly . 
I'll make it a dinner dish , said Jim . 
Fetch it on , but don't cook it , as you value your life . 
But the royal attendants did not heed the animal's ill temper . 
They soon mixed a tub of oatmeal with a little water , and Jim ate it with much relish . 
Then the servants heaped a lot of rugs upon the floor and the old horse slept on the softest bed he had ever known in his life . 
Jim stopped abruptly , being startled and amazed . 
The Sawhorse stopped at the same time and stared at the other with its queer protruding eyes , which were mere knots in the log that formed its body . 
Then Jim exclaimed For goodness sake , what sort of a being are you ? I'm a Sawhorse , replied the other . 
Oh I believe I've heard of you , said the cab horse but you are unlike anything that I expected to see . 
I do not doubt it , the Sawhorse observed , with a tone of pride . 
I am considered quite unusual . 
But a rickety wooden thing like you has no right to be alive . 
I couldn't help it , returned the other , rather crestfallen . 
Ozma sprinkled me with a magic powder , and I just had to live . 
I know I'm not much account but I'm the only horse in all the Land of Oz , so they treat me with great respect . 
You , a horse ! Oh , not a real one , of course . 
There are no real horses here at all . 
But I'm a splendid imitation of one . 
Jim gave an indignant neigh . 
Look at me ! he cried . 
Behold a real horse ! The wooden animal gave a start , and then examined the other intently . 
Is it possible that you are a Real Horse ? he murmured . 
Not only possible , but true , replied Jim , who was gratified by the impression he had created . 
It is proved by my fine points . 
For example , look at the long hairs on my tail , with which I can whisk away the flies . 
The flies never trouble me , said the Saw Horse . 
And notice my great strong teeth , with which I nibble the grass . 
It is not necessary for me to eat , observed the Sawhorse . 
Also examine my broad chest , which enables me to draw deep , full breaths , said Jim , proudly . 
I have no need to breathe , returned the other . 
No you miss many pleasures , remarked the cab horse , pityingly . 
You may be an imitation of a horse , but you're a mighty poor one . 
Oh , I cannot hope ever to be like you , sighed the Sawhorse . 
But I am glad to meet a last a Real Horse . 
You are certainly the most beautiful creature I ever beheld . 
This praise won Jim completely . 
To be called beautiful was a novelty in his experience . 
Said he Your chief fault , my friend , is in being made of wood , and that I suppose you cannot help . 
Real horses , like myself , are made of flesh and blood and bones . 
I can see the bones all right , replied the Sawhorse , and they are admirable and distinct . 
Also I can see the flesh . 
But the blood , I suppose is tucked away inside . 
What good is it ? asked the Sawhorse . 
Jim did not know , but he would not tell the Sawhorse that . 
If anything cuts me , he replied , the blood runs out to show where I am cut . 
You , poor thing ! cannot even bleed when you are hurt . 
But I am never hurt , said the Sawhorse . 
Once in a while I get broken up some , but I am easily repaired and put in good order again . 
And I never feel a break or a splinter in the least . 
How did you happen to be shod with gold ? he asked . 
Princess Ozma did that , was the reply and it saves my legs from wearing out . 
We've had a good many adventures together , Ozma and I , and she likes me . 
The cab horse was about to reply when suddenly he gave a start and a neigh of terror and stood trembling like a leaf . 
For around the corner had come two enormous savage beasts , treading so lightly that they were upon him before he was aware of their presence . 
Jim hesitated , eyeing the beasts fearfully . 
One was an enormous Lion with clear , intelligent eyes , a tawney mane bushy and well kept , and a body like yellow plush . 
The other was a great Tiger with purple stripes around his lithe body , powerful limbs , and eyes that showed through the half closed lids like coals of fire . 
The huge forms of these monarchs of the forest and jungle were enough to strike terror to the stoutest heart , and it is no wonder Jim was afraid to face them . 
And this is the Hungry Tiger , the terror of the jungle , who longs to devour fat babies but is prevented by his conscience from doing so . 
These royal beasts are both warm friends of little Dorothy and have come to the Emerald City this morning to welcome her to our fairyland . 
Hearing these words Jim resolved to conquer his alarm . 
He bowed his head with as much dignity as he could muster toward the savage looking beasts , who in return nodded in a friendly way . 
Is not the Real Horse a beautiful animal ? asked the Sawhorse admiringly . 
That is doubtless a matter of taste , returned the Lion . 
In the forest he would be thought ungainly , because his face is stretched out and his neck is uselessly long . 
His joints , I notice , are swollen and overgrown , and he lacks flesh and is old in years . 
And dreadfully tough , added the Hungry Tiger , in a sad voice . 
My conscience would never permit me to eat so tough a morsel as the Real Horse . 
I'm glad of that , said Jim for I , also , have a conscience , and it tells me not to crush in your skull with a blow of my powerful hoof . 
If he thought to frighten the striped beast by such language he was mistaken . 
The Tiger seemed to smile , and winked one eye slowly . 
You have a good conscience , friend Horse , it said , and if you attend to its teachings it will do much to protect you from harm . 
Some day I will let you try to crush in my skull , and afterward you will know more about tigers than you do now . 
Any friend of Dorothy , remarked the Cowardly Lion , must be our friend , as well . 
So let us cease this talk of skull crushing and converse upon more pleasant subjects . 
Have you breakfasted , Sir Horse ? Not yet , replied Jim . 
But here is plenty of excellent clover , so if you will excuse me I will eat now . 
He's a vegetarian , remarked the Tiger , as the horse began to munch the clover . 
If I could eat grass I would not need a conscience , for nothing could then tempt me to devour babies and lambs . 
Just then Dorothy , who had risen early and heard the voices of the animals , ran out to greet her old friends . 
Good gracious ! she exclaimed . 
I thought you were stuffed . 
So I am , replied the head . 
But once on a time I was part of the Gump , which Ozma sprinkled with the Powder of Life . 
I was then for a time the Head of the finest Flying Machine that was ever known to exist , and we did many wonderful things . 
Afterward the Gump was taken apart and I was put back on this wall but I can still talk when I feel in the mood , which is not often . 
It's very strange , said the girl . 
What were you when you were first alive ? That I have forgotten , replied the Gump's Head , and I do not think it is of much importance . 
But here comes Ozma so I'd better hush up , for the Princess doesn't like me to chatter since she changed her name from Tip to Ozma . 
Just then the girlish Ruler of Oz opened the door and greeted Dorothy with a good morning kiss . 
The little Princess seemed fresh and rosy and in good spirits . 
Breakfast is served , dear , she said , and I am hungry . 
So don't let us keep it waiting a single minute . 
The Nine Tiny Piglets After breakfast Ozma announced that she had ordered a holiday to be observed throughout the Emerald City , in honor of her visitors . 
The people had learned that their old Wizard had returned to them and all were anxious to see him again , for he had always been a rare favorite . 
In the afternoon there were to be games and races . 
The procession was very imposing . 
First came the Imperial Cornet Band of Oz , dressed in emerald velvet uniforms with slashes of pea green satin and buttons of immense cut emeralds . 
They played the National air called The Oz Spangled Banner , and behind them were the standard bearers with the Royal flag . 
This flag was divided into four quarters , one being colored sky blue , another pink , a third lavender and a fourth white . 
In the center was a large emerald green star , and all over the four quarters were sewn spangles that glittered beautifully in the sunshine . 
The colors represented the four countries of Oz , and the green star the Emerald City . 
Just behind the royal standard bearers came the Princess Ozma in her royal chariot , which was of gold encrusted with emeralds and diamonds set in exquisite designs . 
The chariot was drawn on this occasion by the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger , who were decorated with immense pink and blue bows . 
Following the chariot came the Scarecrow mounted on the Sawhorse , and the people cheered him almost as loudly as they did their lovely Ruler . 
Behind him stalked with regular , jerky steps , the famous machine man called Tik tok , who had been wound up by Dorothy for the occasion . 
Tik tok moved by clockwork , and was made all of burnished copper . 
There followed another band after this , which was called the Royal Court Band , because the members all lived in the palace . 
They wore white uniforms with real diamond buttons and played What is Oz without Ozma very sweetly . 
Then came Professor Woggle Bug , with a group of students from the Royal College of Scientific Athletics . 
The brilliantly polished Tin Woodman marched next , at the head of the Royal Army of Oz which consisted of twenty eight officers , from Generals down to Captains . 
There were no privates in the army because all were so courageous and skillful that they had been promoted one by one until there were no privates left . 
Taken altogether the procession was a grand success , and when it had returned to the palace the citizens crowded into the great Throne Room to see the Wizard perform his tricks . 
The first thing the little humbug did was to produce a tiny white piglet from underneath his hat and pretend to pull it apart , making two . 
The pretty little creatures would have been a novelty anywhere , so the people were as amazed and delighted at their appearance as even the Wizard could have desired . 
When he had made them all disappear again Ozma declared she was sorry they were gone , for she wanted one of them to pet and play with . 
They applauded all his tricks and at the end of the performance begged him earnestly not to go away again and leave them . 
In the afternoon they all went to a great field outside the city gates where the games were to be held . 
There was a beautiful canopy for Ozma and her guests to sit under and watch the people run races and jump and wrestle . 
But although the Munchkin was hardly tall enough to come to Zeb's shoulder he was so strong and clever that he laid the boy three times on his back with apparent ease . 
This made Zeb laugh , in turn , and the boy felt comforted to find that Ozma laughed as merrily at her weeping subject as she had at him . 
Of course not , added Jim , with a touch of scorn those little wooden legs of yours are not half as long as my own . 
It isn't that , said the Sawhorse , modestly but I never tire , and you do . 
That is what we are trying to find out , remarked the Scarecrow . 
The object of a race is to see who can win it or at least that is what my excellent brains think . 
Once , when I was young , said Jim , I was a race horse , and defeated all who dared run against me . 
I was born in Kentucky , you know , where all the best and most aristocratic horses come from . 
But you're old , now , Jim , suggested Zeb . 
Old ! Why , I feel like a colt today , replied Jim . 
I only wish there was a real horse here for me to race with . 
I'd show the people a fine sight , I can tell you . 
Then why not race with the Sawhorse ? enquired the Scarecrow . 
He's afraid , said Jim . 
Oh , no , answered the Sawhorse . 
I merely said it wasn't fair . 
But if my friend the Real Horse is willing to undertake the race I am quite ready . 
So they unharnessed Jim and took the saddle off the Sawhorse , and the two queerly matched animals were stood side by side for the start . 
When I say 'Go ! Zeb called to them , you must dig out and race until you reach those three trees you see over yonder . 
Then circle 'round them and come back again . 
The first one that passes the place where the Princess sits shall be named the winner . 
Are you ready ? I suppose I ought to give the wooden dummy a good start of me , growled Jim . 
Never mind that , said the Sawhorse . 
I'll do the best I can . 
Go ! cried Zeb and at the word the two horses leaped forward and the race was begun . 
Jim's big hoofs pounded away at a great rate , and although he did not look very graceful he ran in a way to do credit to his Kentucky breeding . 
But the Sawhorse was swifter than the wind . 
Its wooden legs moved so fast that their twinkling could scarcely be seen , and although so much smaller than the cab horse it covered the ground much faster . 
I am sorry to record the fact that Jim was not only ashamed of his defeat but for a moment lost control of his temper . 
An instant later the Tiger crouched and launched its huge body through the air swift and resistless as a ball from a cannon . 
I beg your pardon , I'm sure , said Jim , meekly . 
I was wrong to kick the Sawhorse , and I am sorry I became angry at him . 
It's no place for us , Zeb . 
It's lucky we got here , though , said the boy and Jim thought of the dark cave , and agreed with him . 
I want to play with it . 
Jellia at once departed on the errand , and she was gone so long that they had almost forgotten her mission when the green robed maiden returned with a troubled face . 
The piglet is not there , your Highness , said she . 
Not there ! exclaimed Ozma . 
Are you sure ? I have hunted in every part of the room , the maid replied . 
Was not the door closed ? asked the Princess . 
Yes , your Highness I am sure it was for when I opened it Dorothy's white kitten crept out and ran up the stairs . 
Hearing this , Dorothy and the Wizard exchanged startled glances , for they remembered how often Eureka had longed to eat a piglet . 
The little girl jumped up at once . 
Come , Ozma , she said , anxiously let us go ourselves to search for the piglet . 
So the two went to the dressing room of the Princess and searched carefully in every corner and among the vases and baskets and ornaments that stood about the pretty boudoir . 
But not a trace could they find of the tiny creature they sought . 
Dorothy was nearly weeping , by this time , while Ozma was angry and indignant . 
I don't b'lieve Eureka would do such a dreadful thing ! cried Dorothy , much distressed . 
Go and get my kitten , please , Jellia , and we'll hear what she has to say about it . 
The green maiden hastened away , but presently returned and said The kitten will not come . 
She threatened to scratch my eyes out if I touched her . 
Where is she ? asked Dorothy . 
Under the bed in your own room , was the reply . 
So Dorothy ran to her room and found the kitten under the bed . 
Come here , Eureka ! she said . 
I won't , answered the kitten , in a surly voice . 
Oh , Eureka ! Why are you so bad ? The kitten did not reply . 
If you don't come to me , right away , continued Dorothy , getting provoked , I'll take my Magic Belt and wish you in the Country of the Gurgles . 
Why do you want me ? asked Eureka , disturbed by this threat . 
You must go to Princess Ozma . 
She wants to talk to you . 
All right , returned the kitten , creeping out . 
I'm not afraid of Ozma or anyone else . 
Dorothy carried her in her arms back to where the others sat in grieved and thoughtful silence . 
Tell me , Eureka , said the Princess , gently did you eat my pretty piglet ? I won't answer such a foolish question , asserted Eureka , with a snarl . 
Oh , yes you will , dear , Dorothy declared . 
The piglet is gone , and you ran out of the room when Jellia opened the door . 
So , if you are innocent , Eureka , you must tell the Princess how you came to be in her room , and what has become of the piglet . 
Who accuses me ? asked the kitten , defiantly . 
No one , answered Ozma . 
Your actions alone accuse you . 
The fact is that I left my little pet in my dressing room lying asleep upon the table and you must have stolen in without my knowing it . 
When next the door was opened you ran out and hid yourself and the piglet was gone . 
That's none of my business , growled the kitten . 
Don't be impudent , Eureka , admonished Dorothy . 
It is you who are impudent , said Eureka , for accusing me of such a crime when you can't prove it except by guessing . 
Ozma was now greatly incensed by the kitten's conduct . 
So the Captain General took Eureka from the arms of the now weeping Dorothy and in spite of the kitten's snarls and scratches carried it away to prison . 
What shall we do now ? asked the Scarecrow , with a sigh , for such a crime had cast a gloom over all the company . 
I will summon the Court to meet in the Throne Room at three o'clock , replied Ozma . 
I myself will be the judge , and the kitten shall have a fair trial . 
What will happen if she is guilty ? asked Dorothy . 
She must die , answered the Princess . 
Nine times ? enquired the Scarecrow . 
As many times as is necessary , was the reply . 
I will ask the Tin Woodman to defend the prisoner , because he has such a kind heart I am sure he will do his best to save her . 
And the Woggle Bug shall be the Public Accuser , because he is so learned that no one can deceive him . 
Who will be the jury ? asked the Tin Woodman . 
There ought to be several animals on the jury , said Ozma , because animals understand each other better than we people understand them . 
That makes the nine which the law requires , and all my people shall be admitted to hear the testimony . 
They now separated to prepare for the sad ceremony for whenever an appeal is made to law sorrow is almost certain to follow even in a fairyland like Oz . 
The crime of murder being the most dreadful crime of all , tremendous excitement prevailed in the Emerald City when the news of Eureka's arrest and trial became known . 
The Wizard , when he returned to his own room , was exceedingly thoughtful . 
Yet her disgrace and death would not bring back the piglet , but only serve to make Dorothy unhappy . 
So I intend to prove the kitten's innocence by a trick . 
All the piglets are exactly alike , so no one can dispute your word . 
This deception will save Eureka's life , and then we may all be happy again . 
So I will do as you say , friend Wizard . 
The Wizard Performs Another Trick At three o'clock the Throne Room was crowded with citizens , men , women and children being eager to witness the great trial . 
Behind her throne stood the twenty eight officers of her army and many officials of the royal household . 
At her right sat the queerly assorted Jury animals , animated dummies and people all gravely prepared to listen to what was said . 
And now , at a signal from Ozma , the Woggle Bug arose and addressed the jury . 
His tone was pompous and he strutted up and down in an absurd attempt to appear dignified . 
In either case a grave crime has been committed which deserves a grave punishment . 
Do you mean my kitten must be put in a grave ? asked Dorothy . 
Don't interrupt , little girl , said the Woggle Bug . 
When I get my thoughts arranged in good order I do not like to have anything upset them or throw them into confusion . 
If your thoughts were any good they wouldn't become confused , remarked the Scarecrow , earnestly . 
My thoughts are always Is this a trial of thoughts , or of kittens ? demanded the Woggle Bug . 
It's a trial of one kitten , replied the Scarecrow but your manner is a trial to us all . 
Let the Public Accuser continue , called Ozma from her throne , and I pray you do not interrupt him . 
And finally she made a wicked plan to satisfy her depraved appetite for pork . 
I can see her , in my mind's eye What's that ? asked the Scarecrow . 
I say I can see her in my mind's eye The mind has no eye , declared the Scarecrow . 
Your Highness , cried the Woggle Bug , appealing to Ozma , have I a mind's eye , or haven't I ? If you have , it is invisible , said the Princess . 
Very true , returned the Woggle Bug , bowing . 
Of course how else could I see it ? And we know the thing is true , because since the time of that interview there is no piglet to be found anywhere . 
I suppose , if the cat had been gone , instead of the piglet , your mind's eye would see the piglet eating the cat , suggested the Scarecrow . 
Very likely , acknowledged the Woggle Bug . 
There was great applause when the speaker sat down . 
If you can prove I'm guilty , I'll be willing to die nine times , but a mind's eye is no proof , because the Woggle Bug has no mind to see with . 
Never mind , dear , said Dorothy . 
Then the Tin Woodman arose and said Respected Jury and dearly beloved Ozma , I pray you not to judge this feline prisoner unfeelingly . 
I do not think the innocent kitten can be guilty , and surely it is unkind to accuse a luncheon of being a murder . 
Eureka is the sweet pet of a lovely little girl whom we all admire , and gentleness and innocence are her chief virtues . 
Would such a gentle animal be guilty of eating a fellow creature ? No a thousand times , no ! Oh , cut it short , said Eureka you've talked long enough . 
I'm trying to defend you , remonstrated the Tin Woodman . 
Then say something sensible , retorted the kitten . 
Tell them it would be foolish for me to eat the piglet , because I had sense enough to know it would raise a row if I did . 
But don't try to make out I'm too innocent to eat a fat piglet if I could do it and not be found out . 
I imagine it would taste mighty good . 
Perhaps it would , to those who eat , remarked the Tin Woodman . 
I myself , not being built to eat , have no personal experience in such matters . 
But I remember that our great poet once said 'To eat is sweet When hunger's seat Demands a treat Of savory meat . 
Take this into consideration , friends of the Jury , and you will readily decide that the kitten is wrongfully accused and should be set at liberty . 
When the Tin Woodman sat down no one applauded him , for his arguments had not been very convincing and few believed that he had proved Eureka's innocence . 
As for the Jury , the members whispered to each other for a few minutes and then they appointed the Hungry Tiger their spokesman . 
The huge beast slowly arose and said Kittens have no consciences , so they eat whatever pleases them . 
The judgment of the jury was received with great applause , although Dorothy was sobbing miserably at the fate of her pet . 
The Princess was just about to order Eureka's head chopped off with the Tin Woodman's axe when that brilliant personage once more arose and addressed her . 
Your Highness , said he , see how easy it is for a jury to be mistaken . 
Where did you find my missing pet , Nick Chopper ? In a room of the palace , he answered . 
Justice , remarked the Scarecrow , with a sigh , is a dangerous thing to meddle with . 
If you hadn't happened to find the piglet , Eureka would surely have been executed . 
But justice prevailed at the last , said Ozma , for here is my pet , and Eureka is once more free . 
I refuse to be free , cried the kitten , in a sharp voice , unless the Wizard can do his trick with eight piglets . 
If he can produce but seven , then this is not the piglet that was lost , but another one . 
Hush , Eureka ! warned the Wizard . 
Don't be foolish , advised the Tin Woodman , or you may be sorry for it . 
The piglet that belonged to the Princess wore an emerald collar , said Eureka , loudly enough for all to hear . 
So it did ! exclaimed Ozma . 
This cannot be the one the Wizard gave me . 
Of course not he had nine of them , altogether , declared Eureka and I must say it was very stingy of him not to let me eat just a few . 
But now that this foolish trial is ended , I will tell you what really became of your pet piglet . 
When Ozma went away she closed the door and left her pet on the table . 
Instead of keeping still , so I could eat him comfortably , he trembled so with fear that he fell off the table into a big vase that was standing on the floor . 
The vase had a very small neck , and spread out at the top like a bowl . 
All were astonished at this confession , and Ozma at once sent an officer to her room to fetch the vase . 
When he returned the Princess looked down the narrow neck of the big ornament and discovered her lost piglet , just as Eureka had said she would . 
There was no way to get the creature out without breaking the vase , so the Tin Woodman smashed it with his axe and set the little prisoner free . 
Then the crowd cheered lustily and Dorothy hugged the kitten in her arms and told her how delighted she was to know that she was innocent . 
But why didn't you tell us at first ? she asked . 
It would have spoiled the fun , replied the kitten , yawning . 
And now , the trial being over , the good citizens of the Emerald City scattered to their homes , well content with the day's amusement . 
Zeb Returns to the Ranch Eureka was much surprised to find herself in disgrace but she was , in spite of the fact that she had not eaten the piglet . 
Dorothy was herself anxious to get home , so she promised Eureka they would not stay in the Land of Oz much longer . 
The next evening after the trial the little girl begged Ozma to allow her to look in the enchanted picture , and the Princess readily consented . 
She took the child to her room and said Make your wish , dear , and the picture will show the scene you desire to behold . 
Really , said the girl , anxiously , I must get back as soon as poss'ble to my own folks . 
This is a fine country , and I like all the people that live in it , he told Dorothy . 
So , if you can find a way to fix it , we'll be much obliged to you . 
Ozma can do it , easily , replied Dorothy . 
Tomorrow morning I'll go to Kansas and you can go to Californy . 
That last evening was so delightful that the boy will never forget it as long as he lives . 
The Princess served delicious refreshments to those who were in the habit of eating , and when Dorothy's bed time arrived the company separated after exchanging many friendly sentiments . 
Next morning they all assembled for the final parting , and many of the officials and courtiers came to look upon the impressive ceremonies . 
Dorothy held Eureka in her arms and bade her friends a fond good bye . 
You must come again , some time , said the little Wizard and she promised she would if she found it possible to do so . 
But Uncle Henry and Aunt Em need me to help them , she added , so I can't ever be very long away from the farm in Kansas . 
Ozma wore the Magic Belt and , when she had kissed Dorothy farewell and had made her wish , the little girl and her kitten disappeared in a twinkling . 
Where is she ? asked Zeb , rather bewildered by the suddenness of it . 
Greeting her uncle and aunt in Kansas , by this time , returned Ozma , with a smile . 
Then Zeb brought out Jim , all harnessed to the buggy , and took his seat . 
I'm much obliged for all your kindness , said the boy , and very grateful to you for saving my life and sending me home again after all the good times I've had . 
I think this is the loveliest country in the world but not being fairies Jim and I feel we ought to be where we belong and that's at the ranch . 
Good bye , everybody ! He gave a start and rubbed his eyes . 
Jim was trotting along the well known road , shaking his ears and whisking his tail with a contented motion . 
Just ahead of them were the gates of Hugson's Ranch , and Uncle Hugson now came out and stood with uplifted arms and wide open mouth , staring in amazement . 
Goodness gracious ! It's Zeb and Jim , too ! he exclaimed . 
Where in the world have you been , my lad ? Why , in the world , Uncle , answered Zeb , with a laugh . 
