De Profundis by Oscar Wilde Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
Suffering is one very long moment . 
We cannot divide it by seasons . 
We can only record its moods , and chronicle their return . 
With us time itself does not progress . 
It seems to circle round one centre of pain . 
For us there is only one season , the season of sorrow . 
The very sun and moon seem taken from us . 
It is always twilight in one's cell , as it is always twilight in one's heart . 
And in the sphere of thought , no less than in the sphere of time , motion is no more . 
The thing that you personally have long ago forgotten , or can easily forget , is happening to me now , and will happen to me again to morrow . 
Remember this , and you will be able to understand a little of why I am writing , and in this manner writing . 
A week later , I am transferred here . 
Three more months go over and my mother dies . 
No one knew how deeply I loved and honoured her . 
Her death was terrible to me but I , once a lord of language , have no words in which to express my anguish and my shame . 
I had disgraced that name eternally . 
I had made it a low by word among low people . 
I had dragged it through the very mire . 
I had given it to brutes that they might make it brutal , and to fools that they might turn it into a synonym for folly . 
What I suffered then , and still suffer , is not for pen to write or paper to record . 
Messages of sympathy reached me from all who had still affection for me . 
The calendar of my daily conduct and labour that hangs on the outside of my cell door , with my name and sentence written upon it , tells me that it is May . 
Prosperity , pleasure and success , may be rough of grain and common in fibre , but sorrow is the most sensitive of all created things . 
There is nothing that stirs in the whole world of thought to which sorrow does not vibrate in terrible and exquisite pulsation . 
The thin beaten out leaf of tremulous gold that chronicles the direction of forces the eye cannot see is in comparison coarse . 
It is a wound that bleeds when any hand but that of love touches it , and even then must bleed again , though not in pain . 
Where there is sorrow there in holy ground . 
Some day people will realise what that means . 
They will know nothing of life till they do , and natures like his can realise it . 
Men have gone to heaven for smaller things than that . 
I have never said one single word to him about what he did . 
I do not know to the present moment whether he is aware that I was even conscious of his action . 
It is not a thing for which one can render formal thanks in formal words . 
I store it in the treasure house of my heart . 
I keep it there as a secret debt that I am glad to think I can never possibly repay . 
It is embalmed and kept sweet by the myrrh and cassia of many tears . 
The poor are wise , more charitable , more kind , more sensitive than we are . 
In their eyes prison is a tragedy in a man's life , a misfortune , a casuality , something that calls for sympathy in others . 
They speak of one who is in prison as of one who is 'in trouble' simply . 
It is the phrase they always use , and the expression has the perfect wisdom of love in it . 
With people of our own rank it is different . 
With us , prison makes a man a pariah . 
I , and such as I am , have hardly any right to air and sun . 
Our presence taints the pleasures of others . 
We are unwelcome when we reappear . 
To revisit the glimpses of the moon is not for us . 
Our very children are taken away . 
Those lovely links with humanity are broken . 
We are doomed to be solitary , while our sons still live . 
We are denied the one thing that might heal us and keep us , that might bring balm to the bruised heart , and peace to the soul in pain . 
I must say to myself that I ruined myself , and that nobody great or small can be ruined except by his own hand . 
I am quite ready to say so . 
I am trying to say so , though they may not think it at the present moment . 
This pitiless indictment I bring without pity against myself . 
Terrible as was what the world did to me , what I did to myself was far more terrible still . 
I was a man who stood in symbolic relations to the art and culture of my age . 
I had realised this for myself at the very dawn of my manhood , and had forced my age to realise it afterwards . 
Few men hold such a position in their own lifetime , and have it so acknowledged . 
It is usually discerned , if discerned at all , by the historian , or the critic , long after both the man and his age have passed away . 
With me it was different . 
I felt it myself , and made others feel it . 
Byron was a symbolic figure , but his relations were to the passion of his age and its weariness of passion . 
Mine were to something more noble , more permanent , of more vital issue , of larger scope . 
The gods had given me almost everything . 
But I let myself be lured into long spells of senseless and sensual ease . 
I amused myself with being a FLANEUR , a dandy , a man of fashion . 
I surrounded myself with the smaller natures and the meaner minds . 
I became the spendthrift of my own genius , and to waste an eternal youth gave me a curious joy . 
Tired of being on the heights , I deliberately went to the depths in the search for new sensation . 
What the paradox was to me in the sphere of thought , perversity became to me in the sphere of passion . 
Desire , at the end , was a malady , or a madness , or both . 
I grew careless of the lives of others . 
I took pleasure where it pleased me , and passed on . 
I ceased to be lord over myself . 
I was no longer the captain of my soul , and did not know it . 
I allowed pleasure to dominate me . 
I ended in horrible disgrace . 
There is only one thing for me now , absolute humility . 
I have lain in prison for nearly two years . 
I have passed through every possible mood of suffering . 
Better than Wordsworth himself I know what Wordsworth meant when he said 'Suffering is permanent , obscure , and dark And has the nature of infinity . 
But while there were times when I rejoiced in the idea that my sufferings were to be endless , I could not bear them to be without meaning . 
Now I find hidden somewhere away in my nature something that tells me that nothing in the whole world is meaningless , and suffering least of all . 
That something hidden away in my nature , like a treasure in a field , is Humility . 
It is the last thing left in me , and the best the ultimate discovery at which I have arrived , the starting point for a fresh development . 
It has come to me right out of myself , so I know that it has come at the proper time . 
It could not have come before , nor later . 
Had any one told me of it , I would have rejected it . 
Had it been brought to me , I would have refused it . 
As I found it , I want to keep it . 
It is the one thing that has in it the elements of life , of a new life , VITA NUOVA for me . 
Of all things it is the strangest . 
One cannot acquire it , except by surrendering everything that one has . 
It is only when one has lost all things , that one knows that one possesses it . 
Now I have realised that it is in me , I see quite clearly what I ought to do in fact , must do . 
And when I use such a phrase as that , I need not say that I am not alluding to any external sanction or command . 
I am far more of an individualist than I ever was . 
Nothing seems to me of the smallest value except what one gets out of oneself . 
My nature is seeking a fresh mode of self realisation . 
That is all I am concerned with . 
And the first thing that I have got to do is to free myself from any possible bitterness of feeling against the world . 
I am completely penniless , and absolutely homeless . 
Yet there are worse things in the world than that . 
If I got nothing from the house of the rich I would get something at the house of the poor . 
Those who have much are often greedy those who have little always share . 
The external things of life seem to me now of no importance at all . 
You can see to what intensity of individualism I have arrived or am arriving rather , for the journey is long , and 'where I walk there are thorns . 
And I really shall have no difficulty . 
When you really want love you will find it waiting for you . 
I need not say that my task does not end there . 
It would be comparatively easy if it did . 
There is much more before me . 
I have hills far steeper to climb , valleys much darker to pass through . 
And I have to get it all out of myself . 
Neither religion , morality , nor reason can help me at all . 
Morality does not help me . 
I am a born antinomian . 
I am one of those who are made for exceptions , not for laws . 
But while I see that there is nothing wrong in what one does , I see that there is something wrong in what one becomes . 
It is well to have learned that . 
Religion does not help me . 
The faith that others give to what is unseen , I give to what one can touch , and look at . 
Every thing to be true must become a religion . 
And agnosticism should have its ritual no less than faith . 
It has sown its martyrs , it should reap its saints , and praise God daily for having hidden Himself from man . 
But whether it be faith or agnosticism , it must be nothing external to me . 
Its symbols must be of my own creating . 
Only that is spiritual which makes its own form . 
If I may not find its secret within myself , I shall never find it if I have not got it already , it will never come to me . 
Reason does not help me . 
It tells me that the laws under which I am convicted are wrong and unjust laws , and the system under which I have suffered a wrong and unjust system . 
But , somehow , I have got to make both of these things just and right to me . 
And exactly as in Art one is only concerned with what a particular thing is at a particular moment to oneself , so it is also in the ethical evolution of one's character . 
I have got to make everything that has happened to me good for me . 
There is not a single degradation of the body which I must not try and make into a spiritualising of the soul . 
I will not say that prison is the best thing that could have happened to me for that phrase would savour of too great bitterness towards myself . 
What is said , however , by myself or by others , matters little . 
The supreme vice is shallowness . 
Whatever is realised is right . 
When first I was put into prison some people advised me to try and forget who I was . 
It is only by realising what I am that I have found comfort of any kind . 
Now I am advised by others to try on my release to forget that I have ever been in a prison at all . 
I know that would be equally fatal . 
To regret one's own experiences is to arrest one's own development . 
To deny one's own experiences is to put a lie into the lips of one's own life . 
It is no less than a denial of the soul . 
I must accept it as a punishment , and if one is ashamed of having been punished , one might just as well never have been punished at all . 
I have no doubt that it is quite right one should be . 
It helps one , or should help one , to realise both , and not to be too conceited about either . 
And if I then am not ashamed of my punishment , as I hope not to be , I shall be able to think , and walk , and live with freedom . 
It is wretched that they should have to do so , and it is wrong , terribly wrong , of society that it should force them to do so . 
Society takes upon itself the right to inflict appalling punishment on the individual , but it also has the supreme vice of shallowness , and fails to realise what it has done . 
When the man's punishment is over , it leaves him to himself that is to say , it abandons him at the very moment when its highest duty towards him begins . 
The poor thieves and outcasts who are imprisoned here with me are in many respects more fortunate than I am . 
It will force on me the necessity of again asserting myself as an artist , and as soon as I possibly can . 
And if life be , as it surely is , a problem to me , I am no less a problem to life . 
People must adopt some attitude towards me , and so pass judgment , both on themselves and me . 
I need not say I am not talking of particular individuals . 
Nor am I making any demands on life . 
Then I must learn how to be happy . 
Once I knew it , or thought I knew it , by instinct . 
It was always springtime once in my heart . 
My temperament was akin to joy . 
I filled my life to the very brim with pleasure , as one might fill a cup to the very brim with wine . 
Now I am approaching life from a completely new standpoint , and even to conceive happiness is often extremely difficult for me . 
I had no idea that some day this would become to me one of the greatest temptations of my life . 
While I was in Wandsworth prison I longed to die . 
It was my one desire . 
When after two months in the infirmary I was transferred here , and found myself growing gradually better in physical health , I was filled with rage . 
I determined to commit suicide on the very day on which I left prison . 
Now I feel quite differently . 
I must learn how to be cheerful and happy . 
It is only a slight return , I know , but it is the one , I feel certain , that pleases them most . 
I saw R for an hour on Saturday week , and I tried to give the fullest possible expression of the delight I really felt at our meeting . 
I see new developments in art and life , each one of which is a fresh mode of perfection . 
I long to live so that I can explore what is no less than a new world to me . 
Do you want to know what this new world is ? I think you can guess what it is . 
It is the world in which I have been living . 
Sorrow , then , and all that it teaches one , is my new world . 
I used to live entirely for pleasure . 
I shunned suffering and sorrow of every kind . 
I resolved to ignore them as far as possible to treat them , that is to say , as modes of imperfection . 
They were not part of my scheme of life . 
They had no place in my philosophy . 
I absolutely declined to accept or admit the enormous truth hidden in them . 
I could not understand it . 
Clergymen and people who use phrases without wisdom sometimes talk of suffering as a mystery . 
It is really a revelation . 
One discerns things one never discerned before . 
One approaches the whole of history from a different standpoint . 
What one had felt dimly , through instinct , about art , is intellectually and emotionally realised with perfect clearness of vision and absolute intensity of apprehension . 
I now see that sorrow , being the supreme emotion of which man is capable , is at once the type and test of all great art . 
Behind joy and laughter there may be a temperament , coarse , hard and callous . 
But behind sorrow there is always sorrow . 
Pain , unlike pleasure , wears no mask . 
Truth in art is the unity of a thing with itself the outward rendered expressive of the inward the soul made incarnate the body instinct with spirit . 
For this reason there is no truth comparable to sorrow . 
There are times when sorrow seems to me to be the only truth . 
More than this , there is about sorrow an intense , an extraordinary reality . 
I have said of myself that I was one who stood in symbolic relations to the art and culture of my age . 
There is not a single wretched man in this wretched place along with me who does not stand in symbolic relation to the very secret of life . 
For the secret of life is suffering . 
It is what is hidden behind everything . 
She told me so , but I could not believe her . 
I was not in the sphere in which such belief was to be attained to . 
Now it seems to me that love of some kind is the only possible explanation of the extraordinary amount of suffering that there is in the world . 
I cannot conceive of any other explanation . 
Pleasure for the beautiful body , but pain for the beautiful soul . 
When I say that I am convinced of these things I speak with too much pride . 
Far off , like a perfect pearl , one can see the city of God . 
It is so wonderful that it seems as if a child could reach it in a summer's day . 
And so a child could . 
But with me and such as me it is different . 
One can realise a thing in a single moment , but one loses it in the long hours that follow with leaden feet . 
It is so difficult to keep 'heights that the soul is competent to gain . 
For prison life with its endless privations and restrictions makes one rebellious . 
The most terrible thing about it is not that it breaks one's heart hearts are made to be broken but that it turns one's heart to stone . 
One sometimes feels that it is only with a front of brass and a lip of scorn that one can get through the day at all . 
And so , indeed , I went out , and so I lived . 
I don't regret for a single moment having lived for pleasure . 
I did it to the full , as one should do everything that one does . 
There was no pleasure I did not experience . 
I threw the pearl of my soul into a cup of wine . 
I went down the primrose path to the sound of flutes . 
But to have continued the same life would have been wrong because it would have been limiting . 
I had to pass on . 
The other half of the garden had its secrets for me also . 
Of course all this is foreshadowed and prefigured in my books . 
It could not have been otherwise . 
At every single moment of one's life one is what one is going to be no less than what one has been . 
Art is a symbol , because man is a symbol . 
It is , if I can fully attain to it , the ultimate realisation of the artistic life . 
For the artistic life is simply self development . 
In MARIUS THE EPICUREAN Pater seeks to reconcile the artistic life with the life of religion , in the deep , sweet , and austere sense of the word . 
He realised in the entire sphere of human relations that imaginative sympathy which in the sphere of Art is the sole secret of creation . 
He understood the leprosy of the leper , the darkness of the blind , the fierce misery of those who live for pleasure , the strange poverty of the rich . 
Some one wrote to me in trouble , 'When you are not on your pedestal you are not interesting . 
How remote was the writer from what Matthew Arnold calls 'the Secret of Jesus . 
Christ's place indeed is with the poets . 
His whole conception of Humanity sprang right out of the imagination and can only be realised by it . 
What God was to the pantheist , man was to Him . 
He was the first to conceive the divided races as a unity . 
More than any one else in history he wakes in us that temper of wonder to which romance always appeals . 
I had said of Christ that he ranks with the poets . 
Shelley and Sophocles are of his company . 
But his entire life also is the most wonderful of poems . 
For 'pity and terror' there is nothing in the entire cycle of Greek tragedy to touch it . 
His miracles seem to me to be as exquisite as the coming of spring , and quite as natural . 
Renan in his VIE DE JESUS that gracious fifth gospel , the gospel according to St . 
Thomas , one might call it says somewhere that Christ's great achievement was that he made himself as much loved after his death as he had been during his lifetime . 
And certainly , if his place is among the poets , he is the leader of all the lovers . 
And above all , Christ is the most supreme of individualists . 
Humility , like the artistic , acceptance of all experiences , is merely a mode of manifestation . 
It is man's soul that Christ is always looking for . 
He calls it 'God's Kingdom , and finds it in every one . 
He compares it to little things , to a tiny seed , to a handful of leaven , to a pearl . 
That is because one realises one's soul only by getting rid of all alien passions , all acquired culture , and all external possessions , be they good or evil . 
I bore up against everything with some stubbornness of will and much rebellion of nature , till I had absolutely nothing left in the world but one thing . 
I had lost my name , my position , my happiness , my freedom , my wealth . 
I was a prisoner and a pauper . 
But I still had my children left . 
Suddenly they were taken away from me by the law . 
That moment seemed to save me . 
I saw then that the only thing for me was to accept everything . 
Since then curious as it will no doubt sound I have been happier . 
It was of course my soul in its ultimate essence that I had reached . 
In many ways I had been its enemy , but I found it waiting for me as a friend . 
When one comes in contact with the soul it makes one simple as a child , as Christ said one should be . 
It is tragic how few people ever 'possess their souls' before they die . 
'Nothing is more rare in any man , says Emerson , 'than an act of his own . 
Most people are other people . 
Their thoughts are some one else's opinions , their lives a mimicry , their passions a quotation . 
Christ was not merely the supreme individualist , but he was the first individualist in history . 
People have tried to make him out an ordinary philanthropist , or ranked him as an altruist with the scientific and sentimental . 
But he was really neither one nor the other . 
Riches and pleasure seemed to him to be really greater tragedies than poverty or sorrow . 
It was not the basis of his creed . 
But while Christ did not say to men , 'Live for others , he pointed out that there was no difference at all between the lives of others and one's own life . 
By this means he gave to man an extended , a Titan personality . 
Since his coming the history of each separate individual is , or can be made , the history of the world . 
Of course , culture has intensified the personality of man . 
Art has made us myriad minded . 
But the sympathy of the artistic temperament is necessarily with what has found expression . 
To the artist , expression is the only mode under which he can conceive life at all . 
To him what is dumb is dead . 
But to Christ it was not so . 
Those of whom I have spoken , who are dumb under oppression , and 'whose silence is heard only of God , he chose as his brothers . 
He sought to become eyes to the blind , ears to the deaf , and a cry in the lips of those whose tongues had been tied . 
His desire was to be to the myriads who had found no utterance a very trumpet through which they might call to heaven . 
For the Greek gods , in spite of the white and red of their fair fleet limbs , were not really what they appeared to be . 
But Life itself from its lowliest and most humble sphere produced one far more marvellous than the mother of Proserpina or the son of Semele . 
We must not be afraid of such a phrase . 
Every single work of art is the fulfilment of a prophecy for every work of art is the conversion of an idea into an image . 
Paul's Cathedral , and Pope's poetry , and everything that is made from without and by dead rules , and does not spring from within through some spirit informing it . 
But wherever there is a romantic movement in art there somehow , and under some form , is Christ , or the soul of Christ . 
We owe to him the most diverse things and people . 
It is the imaginative quality of Christ's own nature that makes him this palpitating centre of romance . 
The strange figures of poetic drama and ballad are made by the imagination of others , but out of his own imagination entirely did Jesus of Nazareth create himself . 
He was the denial as well as the affirmation of prophecy . 
For every expectation that he fulfilled there was another that he destroyed . 
That is why he is so fascinating to artists . 
He has all the colour elements of life mystery , strangeness , pathos , suggestion , ecstasy , love . 
He appeals to the temper of wonder , and creates that mood in which alone he can be understood . 
And to me it is a joy to remember that if he is 'of imagination all compact , the world itself is of the same substance . 
I said in DORIAN GRAY that the great sins of the world take place in the brain but it is in the brain that everything takes place . 
We know now that we do not see with the eyes or hear with the ears . 
They are really channels for the transmission , adequate or inadequate , of sense impressions . 
It is in the brain that the poppy is red , that the apple is odorous , that the skylark sings . 
Of late I have been studying with diligence the four prose poems about Christ . 
It is a delightful way of opening the day . 
Every one , even in a turbulent , ill disciplined life , should do the same . 
Endless repetition , in and out of season , has spoiled for us the freshness , the naivete , the simple romantic charm of the Gospels . 
We hear them read far too often and far too badly , and all repetition is anti spiritual . 
When one returns to the Greek it is like going into a garden of lilies out of some , narrow and dark house . 
And to me , the pleasure is doubled by the reflection that it is extremely probable that we have the actual terms , the IPSISSIMA VERBA , used by Christ . 
It was always supposed that Christ talked in Aramaic . 
I never liked the idea that we knew of Christ's own words only through a translation of a translation . 
John tells us it was Greek text which cannot be reproduced no more . 
While in reading the Gospels particularly that of St . 
Some six weeks ago I was allowed by the doctor to have white bread to eat instead of the coarse black or brown bread of ordinary prison fare . 
It is a great delicacy . 
It will sound strange that dry bread could possibly be a delicacy to any one . 
So one should look on love . 
who are under the table eat of the crumbs that the children let fall . 
Most people live for love and admiration . 
But it is by love and admiration that we should live . 
If any love is shown us we should recognise that we are quite unworthy of it . 
Nobody is worthy to be loved . 
The fact that God loves man shows us that in the divine order of ideal things it is written that eternal love is to be given to what is eternally unworthy . 
Or if that phrase seems to be a bitter one to bear , let us say that every one is worthy of love , except him who thinks that he is . 
Love is a sacrament that should be taken kneeling , and DOMINE , NON SUM DIGNUS should be on the lips and in the hearts of those who receive it . 
He was the first person who ever said to people that they should live 'flower like lives . 
He took children as the type of what people should try to become . 
He held them up as examples to their elders , which I myself have always thought the chief use of children , if what is perfect should have a use . 
He felt that life was changeful , fluid , active , and that to allow it to be stereotyped into any form was death . 
He saw that people should not be too serious over material , common interests that to be unpractical was to be a great thing that one should not bother too much over affairs . 
It is full of Greek feeling . 
But only Christ could have said both , and so summed up life perfectly for us . 
His morality is all sympathy , just what morality should be . 
If the only thing that he ever said had been , 'Her sins are forgiven her because she loved much , it would have been worth while dying to have said it . 
His justice is all poetical justice , exactly what justice should be . 
The beggar goes to heaven because he has been unhappy . 
I cannot conceive a better reason for his being sent there . 
Why shouldn't they ? Probably no one deserved anything . 
Or perhaps they were a different kind of people . 
He saw no other basis . 
It was worth while living to have said that . 
Like all poetical natures he loved ignorant people . 
He knew that in the soul of one who is ignorant there is always room for a great idea . 
His chief war was against the Philistines . 
That is the war every child of light has to wage . 
Philistinism was the note of the age and community in which he lived . 
Christ mocked at the 'whited sepulchre' of respectability , and fixed that phrase for ever . 
He treated worldly success as a thing absolutely to be despised . 
He saw nothing in it at all . 
He looked on wealth as an encumbrance to a man . 
He would not hear of life being sacrificed to any system of thought or morals . 
He pointed out that forms and ceremonies were made for man , not man for forms and ceremonies . 
He took sabbatarianism as a type of the things that should be set at nought . 
The cold philanthropies , the ostentatious public charities , the tedious formalisms so dear to the middle class mind , he exposed with utter and relentless scorn . 
To us , what is termed orthodoxy is merely a facile unintelligent acquiescence but to them , and in their hands , it was a terrible and paralysing tyranny . 
He showed that the spirit alone was of value . 
Those whom he saved from their sins are saved simply for beautiful moments in their lives . 
He sees all the lovely influences of life as modes of light the imagination itself is the world of light . 
But it is when he deals with a sinner that Christ is most romantic , in the sense of most real . 
The world had always loved the saint as being the nearest possible approach to the perfection of God . 
Christ , through some divine instinct in him , seems to have always loved the sinner as being the nearest possible approach to the perfection of man . 
His primary desire was not to reform people , any more than his primary desire was to a relieve suffering . 
To turn an interesting thief into a tedious honest man was not his aim . 
He would have thought little of the Prisoners' Aid Society and other modern movements of the kind . 
The conversion of a publican into a Pharisee would not have seemed to him a great achievement . 
But in a manner not yet understood of the world he regarded sin and suffering as being in themselves beautiful holy things and modes of perfection . 
It seems a very dangerous idea . 
It is all great ideas are dangerous . 
That it was Christ's creed admits of no doubt . 
That it is the true creed I don't doubt myself . 
Of course the sinner must repent . 
But why ? Simply because otherwise he would be unable to realise what he had done . 
The moment of repentance is the moment of initiation . 
More than that it is the means by which one alters one's past . 
The Greeks thought that impossible . 
They often say in their Gnomic aphorisms , 'Even the Gods cannot alter the past . 
Christ showed that the commonest sinner could do it , that it was the one thing he could do . 
It is difficult for most people to grasp the idea . 
I dare say one has to go to prison to understand it . 
If so , it may be worth while going to prison . 
There is something so unique about Christ . 
For that we should be grateful . 
The unfortunate thing is that there have been none since . 
I make one exception , St . 
He understood Christ , and so he became like him . 
We do not require the Liber Conformitatum to teach us that the life of St . 
Francis was the true IMITATIO CHRISTI , a poem compared to which the book of that name is merely prose . 
Indeed , that is the charm about Christ , when all is said he is just like a work of art . 
He does not really teach one anything , but by being brought into his presence one becomes something . 
And everybody is predestined to his presence . 
Once at least in his life each man walks with Christ to Emmaus . 
As regards the other subject , the Relation of the Artistic Life to Conduct , it will no doubt seem strange to you that I should select it . 
People point to Reading Gaol and say , 'That is where the artistic life leads a man . 
Well , it might lead to worse places . 
The more mechanical people to whom life is a shrewd speculation depending on a careful calculation of ways and means , always know where they are going , and go there . 
They start with the ideal desire of being the parish beadle , and in whatever sphere they are placed they succeed in being the parish beadle and no more . 
Those who want a mask have to wear it . 
But with the dynamic forces of life , and those in whom those dynamic forces become incarnate , it is different . 
People whose desire is solely for self realisation never know where they are going . 
In one sense of the word it is of course necessary , as the Greek oracle said , to know oneself that is the first achievement of knowledge . 
But to recognise that the soul of a man is unknowable , is the ultimate achievement of wisdom . 
The final mystery is oneself . 
When one has weighed the sun in the balance , and measured the steps of the moon , and mapped out the seven heavens star by star , there still remains oneself . 
If it does I shall owe much to this new personality that has altered every man's life in this place . 
The prison style is absolutely and entirely wrong . 
I would give anything to be able to alter it when I go out . 
I know also that much is waiting for me outside that is very delightful , from what St . 
Francis of Assisi calls 'my brother the wind , and my sister the rain , lovely things both of them , down to the shop windows and sunsets of great cities . 
Perhaps I may go out with something that I had not got before . 
I need not tell you that to me reformations in morals are as meaningless and vulgar as Reformations in theology . 
But while to propose to be a better man is a piece of unscientific cant , to have become a deeper man is the privilege of those who have suffered . 
And such I think I have become . 
If after I am free a friend of mine gave a feast , and did not invite me to it , I should not mind a bit . 
I can be perfectly happy by myself . 
With freedom , flowers , books , and the moon , who could not be perfectly happy ? Besides , feasts are not for me any more . 
I have given too many to care about them . 
That side of life is over for me , very fortunately , I dare say . 
But if after I am free a friend of mine had a sorrow and refused to allow me to share it , I should feel it most bitterly . 
But that could not be . 
Perhaps there may come into my art also , no less than into my life , a still deeper note , one of greater unity of passion , and directness of impulse . 
Not width but intensity is the true aim of modern art . 
We are no longer in art concerned with the type . 
It is with the exception that we have to do . 
I cannot put my sufferings into any form they took , I need hardly say . 
The lyre had vanquished the reed . 
But perhaps the Greeks were mistaken . 
I hear in much modern Art the cry of Marsyas . 
It is bitter in Baudelaire , sweet and plaintive in Lamartine , mystic in Verlaine . 
It is in the deferred resolutions of Chopin's music . 
It is in the discontent that haunts Burne Jones's women . 
But whether or not the Phrygian Faun was silent , I cannot be . 
Expression is as necessary to me as leaf and blossoms are to the black branches of the trees that show themselves above the prison walls and are so restless in the wind . 
Between my art and the world there is now a wide gulf , but between art and myself there is none . 
I hope at least that there is none . 
To each of us different fates are meted out . 
It is quite true about modernity . 
It has probably always been true about actual life . 
It is said that all martyrdoms seemed mean to the looker on . 
The nineteenth century is no exception to the rule . 
Everything about my tragedy has been hideous , mean , repellent , lacking in style our very dress makes us grotesque . 
We are the zanies of sorrow . 
We are clowns whose hearts are broken . 
We are specially designed to appeal to the sense of humour . 
On November th , , I was brought down here from London . 
I had been taken out of the hospital ward without a moment's notice being given to me . 
Of all possible objects I was the most grotesque . 
When people saw me they laughed . 
Each train as it came up swelled the audience . 
Nothing could exceed their amusement . 
That was , of course , before they knew who I was . 
As soon as they had been informed they laughed still more . 
For half an hour I stood there in the grey November rain surrounded by a jeering mob . 
For a year after that was done to me I wept every day at the same hour and for the same space of time . 
That is not such a tragic thing as possibly it sounds to you . 
To those who are in prison tears are a part of every day's experience . 
A day in prison on which one does not weep is a day on which one's heart is hard , not a day on which one's heart is happy . 
Well , now I am really beginning to feel more regret for the people who laughed than for myself . 
Of course when they saw me I was not on my pedestal , I was in the pillory . 
But it is a very unimaginative nature that only cares for people on their pedestals . 
A pedestal may be a very unreal thing . 
A pillory is a terrific reality . 
They should have known also how to interpret sorrow better . 
I have said that behind sorrow there is always sorrow . 
It were wiser still to say that behind sorrow there is always a soul . 
And to mock at a soul in pain is a dreadful thing . 
I have , however , to do it , and now and then I have moments of submission and acceptance . 
So perhaps whatever beauty of life still remains to me is contained in some moment of surrender , abasement , and humiliation . 
I can , at any rate , merely proceed on the lines of my own development , and , accepting all that has happened to me , make myself worthy of it . 
People used to say of me that I was too individualistic . 
I must be far more of an individualist than ever I was . 
I must get far more out of myself than ever I got , and ask far less of the world than ever I asked . 
Indeed , my ruin came not from too great individualism of life , but from too little . 
The one disgraceful , unpardonable , and to all time contemptible action of my life was to allow myself to appeal to society for help and protection . 
You shall abide by what you have appealed to . 
The result is I am in gaol . 
Certainly no man ever fell so ignobly , and by such ignoble instruments , as I did . 
The Philistine element in life is not the failure to understand art . 
Charming people , such as fishermen , shepherds , ploughboys , peasants and the like , know nothing about art , and are the very salt of the earth . 
People thought it dreadful of me to have entertained at dinner the evil things of life , and to have found pleasure in their company . 
But then , from the point of view through which I , as an artist in life , approach them they were delightfully suggestive and stimulating . 
The danger was half the excitement . 
My business as an artist was with Ariel . 
I set myself to wrestle with Caliban . 
It was a terrible shock to him , but we are friends , and I have not got his friendship on false pretences . 
Emotional forces , as I say somewhere in INTENTIONS , are as limited in extent and duration as the forces of physical energy . 
Great passions are for the great of soul , and great events can be seen only by those who are on a level with them . 
I know of nothing in all drama more incomparable from the point of view of art , nothing more suggestive in its subtlety of observation , than Shakespeare's drawing of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern . 
They are Hamlet's college friends . 
They have been his companions . 
They bring with them memories of pleasant days together . 
At the moment when they come across him in the play he is staggering under the weight of a burden intolerable to one of his temperament . 
The dead have come armed out of the grave to impose on him a mission at once too great and too mean for him . 
He is a dreamer , and he is called upon to act . 
He has no conception of what to do , and his folly is to feign folly . 
Brutus used madness as a cloak to conceal the sword of his purpose , the dagger of his will , but the Hamlet madness is a mere mask for the hiding of weakness . 
In the making of fancies and jests he sees a chance of delay . 
He keeps playing with action as an artist plays with a theory . 
He makes himself the spy of his proper actions , and listening to his own words knows them to be but 'words , words , words . 
Instead of trying to be the hero of his own history , he seeks to be the spectator of his own tragedy . 
He disbelieves in everything , including himself , and yet his doubt helps him not , as it comes not from scepticism but from a divided will . 
Of all this Guildenstern and Rosencrantz realise nothing . 
They bow and smirk and smile , and what the one says the other echoes with sickliest intonation . 
That is as far as they can attain to in 'the contemplation of the spectacle of life with appropriate emotions . 
They are close to his very secret and know nothing of it . 
Nor would there be any use in telling them . 
They are the little cups that can hold so much and no more . 
Towards the close it is suggested that , caught in a cunning spring set for another , they have met , or may meet , with a violent and sudden death . 
But a tragic ending of this kind , though touched by Hamlet's humour with something of the surprise and justice of comedy , is really not for such as they . 
They are what modern life has contributed to the antique ideal of friendship . 
He who writes a new DE AMICITIA must find a niche for them , and praise them in Tusculan prose . 
They are types fixed for all time . 
To censure them would show 'a lack of appreciation . 
They are merely out of their sphere that is all . 
In sublimity of soul there is no contagion . 
High thoughts and high emotions are by their very existence isolated . 
The sea , as Euripides says in one of his plays about Iphigeneia , washes away the stains and wounds of the world . 
I hope to be at least a month with my friends , and to gain peace and balance , and a less troubled heart , and a sweeter mood . 
I have a strange longing for the great simple primeval things , such as the sea , to me no less of a mother than the Earth . 
It seems to me that we all look at Nature too much , and live with her too little . 
I discern great sanity in the Greek attitude . 
They never chattered about sunsets , or discussed whether the shadows on the grass were really mauve or not . 
But they saw that the sea was for the swimmer , and the sand for the feet of the runner . 
They loved the trees for the shadow that they cast , and the forest for its silence at noon . 
We call ours a utilitarian age , and we do not know the uses of any single thing . 
We have forgotten that water can cleanse , and fire purify , and that the Earth is mother to us all . 
As a consequence our art is of the moon and plays with shadows , while Greek art is of the sun and deals directly with things . 
I feel sure that in elemental forces there is purification , and I want to go back to them and live in their presence . 
Of course to one so modern as I am , 'Enfant de mon siecle , merely to look at the world will be always lovely . 
It has always been so with me from my boyhood . 
Like Gautier , I have always been one of those 'pour qui le monde visible existe . 
I have grown tired of the articulate utterances of men and things . 
The Mystical in Art , the Mystical in Life , the Mystical in Nature this is what I am looking for . 
It is absolutely necessary for me to find it somewhere . 
All trials are trials for one's life , just as all sentences are sentences of death and three times have I been tried . 
