DRACULA by Bram Stoker edition CHAPTER Jonathan Harker's Journal May . 
Left Munich at P. M. , on st May , arriving at Vienna early next morning should have arrived at , but train was an hour late . 
Buda Pesth seems a wonderful place , from the glimpse which I got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the streets . 
I feared to go very far from the station , as we had arrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible . 
We left in pretty good time , and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh . 
Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale . 
I had for dinner , or rather supper , a chicken done up some way with red pepper , which was very good but thirsty . 
I found my smattering of German very useful here , indeed , I don't know how I should be able to get on without it . 
I shall enter here some of my notes , as they may refresh my memory when I talk over my travels with Mina . 
I am going among the latter , who claim to be descended from Attila and the Huns . 
This may be so , for when the Magyars conquered the country in the eleventh century they found the Huns settled in it . 
I did not sleep well , though my bed was comfortable enough , for I had all sorts of queer dreams . 
Towards morning I slept and was wakened by the continuous knocking at my door , so I guess I must have been sleeping soundly then . 
It seems to me that the further east you go the more unpunctual are the trains . 
What ought they to be in China ? All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country which was full of beauty of every kind . 
It takes a lot of water , and running strong , to sweep the outside edge of a river clear . 
At every station there were groups of people , sometimes crowds , and in all sorts of attire . 
The women looked pretty , except when you got near them , but they were very clumsy about the waist . 
They wore high boots , with their trousers tucked into them , and had long black hair and heavy black moustaches . 
They are very picturesque , but do not look prepossessing . 
On the stage they would be set down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands . 
They are , however , I am told , very harmless and rather wanting in natural self assertion . 
It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz , which is a very interesting old place . 
Being practically on the frontier for the Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina it has had a very stormy existence , and it certainly shows marks of it . 
Fifty years ago a series of great fires took place , which made terrible havoc on five separate occasions . 
At the very beginning of the seventeenth century it underwent a siege of three weeks and lost , people , the casualties of war proper being assisted by famine and disease . 
When I came close she bowed and said , The Herr Englishman ? Yes , I said , Jonathan Harker . 
She smiled , and gave some message to an elderly man in white shirtsleeves , who had followed her to the door . 
He went , but immediately returned with a letter My friend . 
I am anxiously expecting you . 
At three tomorrow the diligence will start for Bukovina a place on it is kept for you . 
At the Borgo Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me . 
I trust that your journey from London has been a happy one , and that you will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land . 
This could not be true , because up to then he had understood it perfectly at least , he answered my questions exactly as if he did . 
He and his wife , the old lady who had received me , looked at each other in a frightened sort of way . 
He mumbled out that the money had been sent in a letter , and that was all he knew . 
It was so near the time of starting that I had no time to ask anyone else , for it was all very mysterious and not by any means comforting . 
I was just able to follow her by asking many questions . 
Finally , she went down on her knees and implored me not to go at least to wait a day or two before starting . 
It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable . 
However , there was business to be done , and I could allow nothing to interfere with it . 
I tried to raise her up , and said , as gravely as I could , that I thanked her , but my duty was imperative , and that I must go . 
She then rose and dried her eyes , and taking a crucifix from her neck offered it to me . 
I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting for the coach , which is , of course , late and the crucifix is still round my neck . 
If this book should ever reach Mina before I do , let it bring my goodbye . 
Here comes the coach ! May . 
I am not sleepy , and , as I am not to be called till I awake , naturally I write till sleep comes . 
I had only a couple of glasses of this , and nothing else . 
When I got on the coach , the driver had not taken his seat , and I saw him talking to the landlady . 
With some difficulty , I got a fellow passenger to tell me what they meant . 
He would not answer at first , but on learning that I was English , he explained that it was a charm or guard against the evil eye . 
This was not very pleasant for me , just starting for an unknown place to meet an unknown man . 
But everyone seemed so kind hearted , and so sorrowful , and so sympathetic that I could not but be touched . 
There was everywhere a bewildering mass of fruit blossom apple , plum , pear , cherry . 
And as we drove by I could see the green grass under the trees spangled with the fallen petals . 
The road was rugged , but still we seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste . 
I could not understand then what the haste meant , but the driver was evidently bent on losing no time in reaching Borgo Prund . 
I was told that this road is in summertime excellent , but that it had not yet been put in order after the winter snows . 
In this respect it is different from the general run of roads in the Carpathians , for it is an old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good order . 
Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves . 
Here and there seemed mighty rifts in the mountains , through which , as the sun began to sink , we saw now and again the white gleam of falling water . 
Look ! Isten szek ! God's seat ! and he crossed himself reverently . 
As we wound on our endless way , and the sun sank lower and lower behind us , the shadows of the evening began to creep round us . 
This was emphasized by the fact that the snowy mountain top still held the sunset , and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink . 
Here and there we passed Cszeks and slovaks , all in picturesque attire , but I noticed that goitre was painfully prevalent . 
By the roadside were many crosses , and as we swept by , my companions all crossed themselves . 
There were many things new to me . 
For instance , hay ricks in the trees , and here and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch , their white stems shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves . 
Now and again we passed a leiter wagon the ordinary peasants's cart with its long , snakelike vertebra , calculated to suit the inequalities of the road . 
Sometimes the hills were so steep that , despite our driver's haste , the horses could only go slowly . 
I wished to get down and walk up them , as we do at home , but the driver would not hear of it . 
No , no , he said . 
You must not walk here . 
The dogs are too fierce . 
The only stop he would make was a moment's pause to light his lamps . 
When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the passengers , and they kept speaking to him , one after the other , as though urging him to further speed . 
He lashed the horses unmercifully with his long whip , and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on to further exertions . 
Then through the darkness I could see a sort of patch of grey light ahead of us , as though there were a cleft in the hills . 
The excitement of the passengers grew greater . 
The crazy coach rocked on its great leather springs , and swayed like a boat tossed on a stormy sea . 
I had to hold on . 
The road grew more level , and we appeared to fly along . 
Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each side and to frown down upon us . 
We were entering on the Borgo Pass . 
One by one several of the passengers offered me gifts , which they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would take no denial . 
Then , as we flew along , the driver leaned forward , and on each side the passengers , craning over the edge of the coach , peered eagerly into the darkness . 
It was evident that something very exciting was either happening or expected , but though I asked each passenger , no one would give me the slightest explanation . 
This state of excitement kept on for some little time . 
And at last we saw before us the Pass opening out on the eastern side . 
There were dark , rolling clouds overhead , and in the air the heavy , oppressive sense of thunder . 
It seemed as though the mountain range had separated two atmospheres , and that now we had got into the thunderous one . 
I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was to take me to the Count . 
Each moment I expected to see the glare of lamps through the blackness , but all was dark . 
The only light was the flickering rays of our own lamps , in which the steam from our hard driven horses rose in a white cloud . 
We could see now the sandy road lying white before us , but there was on it no sign of a vehicle . 
The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness , which seemed to mock my own disappointment . 
Then turning to me , he spoke in German worse than my own . 
There is no carriage here . 
The Herr is not expected after all . 
He will now come on to Bukovina , and return tomorrow or the next day , better the next day . 
Whilst he was speaking the horses began to neigh and snort and plunge wildly , so that the driver had to hold them up . 
I could see from the flash of our lamps as the rays fell on them , that the horses were coal black and splendid animals . 
They were driven by a tall man , with a long brown beard and a great black hat , which seemed to hide his face from us . 
I could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes , which seemed red in the lamplight , as he turned to us . 
He said to the driver , You are early tonight , my friend . 
The man stammered in reply , The English Herr was in a hurry . 
To which the stranger replied , That is why , I suppose , you wished him to go on to Bukovina . 
You cannot deceive me , my friend . 
I know too much , and my horses are swift . 
As he spoke he smiled , and the lamplight fell on a hard looking mouth , with very red lips and sharp looking teeth , as white as ivory . 
One of my companions whispered to another the line from Burger's Lenore . 
Denn die Todten reiten Schnell . 
The strange driver evidently heard the words , for he looked up with a gleaming smile . 
The passenger turned his face away , at the same time putting out his two fingers and crossing himself . 
Give me the Herr's luggage , said the driver , and with exceeding alacrity my bags were handed out and put in the caleche . 
Then I descended from the side of the coach , as the caleche was close alongside , the driver helping me with a hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel . 
His strength must have been prodigious . 
Without a word he shook his reins , the horses turned , and we swept into the darkness of the pass . 
As I looked back I saw the steam from the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps , and projected against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves . 
Then the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses , and off they swept on their way to Bukovina . 
As they sank into the darkness I felt a strange chill , and a lonely feeling come over me . 
underneath the seat , if you should require it . 
I did not take any , but it was a comfort to know it was there all the same . 
I felt a little strangely , and not a little frightened . 
I think had there been any alternative I should have taken it , instead of prosecuting that unknown night journey . 
The carriage went at a hard pace straight along , then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road . 
It seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground again , and so I took note of some salient point , and found that this was so . 
By and by , however , as I was curious to know how time was passing , I struck a match , and by its flame looked at my watch . 
It was within a few minutes of midnight . 
This gave me a sort of shock , for I suppose the general superstition about midnight was increased by my recent experiences . 
I waited with a sick feeling of suspense . 
Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road , a long , agonized wailing , as if from fear . 
The driver again took his seat , and shaking his reins , started off at a great pace . 
This time , after going to the far side or the Pass , he suddenly turned down a narrow roadway which ran sharply to the right . 
Soon we were hemmed in with trees , which in places arched right over the roadway till we passed as through a tunnel . 
And again great frowning rocks guarded us boldly on either side . 
It grew colder and colder still , and fine , powdery snow began to fall , so that soon we and all around us were covered with a white blanket . 
The keen wind still carried the howling of the dogs , though this grew fainter as we went on our way . 
The baying of the wolves sounded nearer and nearer , as though they were closing round on us from every side . 
I grew dreadfully afraid , and the horses shared my fear . 
The driver , however , was not in the least disturbed . 
He kept turning his head to left and right , but I could not see anything through the darkness . 
Suddenly , away on our left I saw a fain flickering blue flame . 
The driver saw it at the same moment . 
He at once checked the horses , and , jumping to the ground , disappeared into the darkness . 
I did not know what to do , the less as the howling of the wolves grew closer . 
But while I wondered , the driver suddenly appeared again , and without a word took his seat , and we resumed our journey . 
Once the flame appeared so near the road , that even in the darkness around us I could watch the driver's motions . 
Once there appeared a strange optical effect . 
When he stood between me and the flame he did not obstruct it , for I could see its ghostly flicker all the same . 
This startled me , but as the effect was only momentary , I took it that my eyes deceived me straining through the darkness . 
I could not see any cause for it , for the howling of the wolves had ceased altogether . 
They were a hundred times more terrible in the grim silence which held them than even when they howled . 
For myself , I felt a sort of paralysis of fear . 
It is only when a man feels himself face to face with such horrors that he can understand their true import . 
All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had had some peculiar effect on them . 
The horses jumped about and reared , and looked helplessly round with eyes that rolled in a way painful to see . 
But the living ring of terror encompassed them on every side , and they had perforce to remain within it . 
As he swept his long arms , as though brushing aside some impalpable obstacle , the wolves fell back and back further still . 
Just then a heavy cloud passed across the face of the moon , so that we were again in darkness . 
When I could see again the driver was climbing into the caleche , and the wolves disappeared . 
This was all so strange and uncanny that a dreadful fear came upon me , and I was afraid to speak or move . 
The time seemed interminable as we swept on our way , now in almost complete darkness , for the rolling clouds obscured the moon . 
We kept on ascending , with occasional periods of quick descent , but in the main always ascending . 
CHAPTER Jonathan Harker's Journal Continued May . 
I must have been asleep , for certainly if I had been fully awake I must have noticed the approach of such a remarkable place . 
In the gloom the courtyard looked of considerable size , and as several dark ways led from it under great round arches , it perhaps seemed bigger than it really is . 
I have not yet been able to see it by daylight . 
When the caleche stopped , the driver jumped down and held out his hand to assist me to alight . 
Again I could not but notice his prodigious strength . 
His hand actually seemed like a steel vice that could have crushed mine if he had chosen . 
I could see even in th e dim light that the stone was massively carved , but that the carving had been much worn by time and weather . 
As I stood , the driver jumped again into his seat and shook the reins . 
The horses started forward , and trap and all disappeared down one of the dark openings . 
I stood in silence where I was , for I did not know what to do . 
Of bell or knocker there was no sign . 
Through these frowning walls and dark window openings it was not likely that my voice could penetrate . 
The time I waited seemed endless , and I felt doubts and fears crowding upon me . 
But my flesh answered the pinching test , and my eyes were not to be deceived . 
I was indeed awake and among the Carpathians . 
All I could do now was to be patient , and to wait the coming of morning . 
Just as I had come to this conclusion I heard a heavy step approaching behind the great door , and saw through the chinks the gleam of a coming light . 
Then there was the sound of rattling chains and the clanking of massive bolts drawn back . 
A key was turned with the loud grating noise of long disuse , and the great door swung back . 
The old man motioned me in with his right hand with a courtly gesture , saying in excellent English , but with a strange intonation . 
Welcome to my house ! Enter freely . 
Come in , the night air is chill , and you must need to eat and rest . 
As he was speaking , he put the lamp on a bracket on the wall , and stepping out , took my luggage . 
He had carried it in before I could forestall him . 
I protested , but he insisted . 
Nay , sir , you are my guest . 
It is late , and my people are not available . 
Let me see to your comfort myself . 
He insisted on carrying my traps along the passage , and then up a great winding stair , and along another great passage , on whose stone floor our steps rang heavily . 
Passing through this , he opened another door , and motioned me to enter . 
It was a welcome sight . 
The Count himself left my luggage inside and withdrew , saying , before he closed the door . 
You will need , after your journey , to refresh yourself by making your toilet . 
I trust you will find all you wish . 
When you are ready , come into the other room , where you will find your supper prepared . 
The light and warmth and the Count's courteous welcome seemed to have dissipated all my doubts and fears . 
Having then reached my normal state , I discovered that I was half famished with hunger . 
So making a hasty toilet , I went into the other room . 
I found supper already laid out . 
You will I trust , excuse me that I do not join you , but I have dined already , and I do not sup . 
I handed to him the sealed letter which Mr. Hawkins had entrusted to me . 
He opened it and read it gravely . 
Then , with a charming smile , he handed it to me to read . 
One passage of it , at least , gave me a thrill of pleasure . 
I must regret that an attack of gout , from which malady I am a constant sufferer , forbids absolutely any travelling on my part for some time to come . 
But I am happy to say I can send a sufficient substitute , one in whom I have every possible confidence . 
He is a young man , full of energy and talent in his own way , and of a very faithful disposition . 
He is discreet and silent , and has grown into manhood in my service . 
He shall be ready to attend on you when you will during his stay , and shall take your instructions in all matters . 
The count himself came forward and took off the cover of a dish , and I fell to at once on an excellent roast chicken . 
This , with some cheese and a salad and a bottle of old tokay , of which I had two glasses , was my supper . 
During the time I was eating it the Count asked me many question as to my journey , and I told him by degrees all I had experienced . 
I had now an opportunity of observing him , and found him of a very marked physiognomy . 
His eyebrows were very massive , almost meeting over the nose , and with bushy hair that seemed to curl in its own profusion . 
The mouth , so far as I could see it under the heavy moustache , was fixed and rather cruel looking , with peculiarly sharp white teeth . 
These protruded over the lips , whose remarkable ruddiness showed astonishing vitality in a man of his years . 
For the rest , his ears were pale , and at the tops extremely pointed . 
The chin was broad and strong , and the cheeks firm though thin . 
The general effect was one of extraordinary pallor . 
Hitherto I had noticed the backs of his hands as they lay on his knees in the firelight , and they had seemed rather white and fine . 
But seeing them now close to me , I could not but notice that they were rather coarse , broad , with squat fingers . 
Strange to say , there were hairs in the centre of the palm . 
The nails were long and fine , and cut to a sharp point . 
As the Count leaned over me and his hands touched me , I could not repress a shudder . 
It may have been that his breath was rank , but a horrible feeling of nausea came over me , which , do what I would , I could not conceal . 
The Count , evidently noticing it , drew back . 
And with a grim sort of smile , which showed more than he had yet done his protruberant teeth , sat himself down again on his own side of the fireplace . 
We were both silent for a while , and as I looked towards the window I saw the first dim streak of the coming dawn . 
There seemed a strange stillness over everything . 
But as I listened , I heard as if from down below in the valley the howling of many wolves . 
The Count's eyes gleamed , and he said . 
Listen to them , the children of the night . 
Then he rose and said . 
But you must be tired . 
Your bedroom is all ready , and tomorrow you shall sleep as late as you will . 
I am all in a sea of wonders . 
I think strange things , which I dare not confess to my own soul . 
God keep me , if only for the sake of those dear to me ! May . 
It is again early morning , but I have rested and enjoyed the last twenty four hours . 
I slept till late in the day , and awoke of my own accord . 
There was a card on the table , on which was written I have to be absent for a while . 
Do not wait for me . 
D. I set to and enjoyed a hearty meal . 
When I had done , I looked for a bell , so that I might let the servants know I had finished , but I could not find one . 
There are certainly odd deficiencies in the house , considering the extraordinary evidences of wealth which are round me . 
The table service is of gold , and so beautifully wrought that it must be of immense value . 
I saw something like them in Hampton Court , but they were worn and frayed and moth eaten . 
But still in none of the rooms is there a mirror . 
There is not even a toilet glass on my table , and I had to get the little shaving glass from my bag before I could either shave or brush my hair . 
I have not yet seen a servant anywhere , or heard a sound near the castle except the howling of wolves . 
There was absolutely nothing in the room , book , newspaper , or even writing materials , so I opened another door in the room and found a sort of library . 
The door opposite mine I tried , but found locked . 
In the library I found , to my great delight , a vast number of English books , whole shelves full of them , and bound volumes of magazines and newspapers . 
A table in the center was littered with English magazines and newspapers , though none of them were of very recent date . 
Whilst I was looking at the books , the door opened , and the Count entered . 
He saluted me in a hearty way , and hoped that I had had a good night's rest . 
I am glad you found your way in here , for I am sure there is much that will interest you . 
Through them I have come to know your great England , and to know her is to love her . 
But alas ! As yet I only know your tongue through books . 
To you , my friend , I look that I know it to speak . 
But , Count , I said , You know and speak English thoroughly ! He bowed gravely . 
I thank you , my friend , for your all too flattering estimate , but yet I fear that I am but a little way on the road I would travel . 
True , I know the grammar and the words , but yet I know not how to speak them . 
Indeed , I said , You speak excellently . 
Not so , he answered . 
Well , I know that , did I move and speak in your London , none there are who would not know me for a stranger . 
That is not enough for me . 
The common people know me , and I am master . 
But a stranger in a strange land , he is no one . 
Men know him not , and to know not is to care not for . 
You come to me not alone as agent of my friend Peter Hawkins , of Exeter , to tell me all about my new estate in London . 
You shall , I trust , rest here with me a while , so that by our talking I may learn the English intonation . 
And I would that you tell me when I make error , even of the smallest , in my speaking . 
I am sorry that I had to be away so long today , but you will , I know forgive one who has so many important affairs in hand . 
Of course I said all I could about being willing , and asked if I might come into that room when I chose . 
He answered , Yes , certainly , and added . 
You may go anywhere you wish in the castle , except where the doors are locked , where of course you will not wish to go . 
There is reason that all things are as they are , and did you see with my eyes and know with my knowledge , you would perhaps better understand . 
I said I was sure of this , and then he went on . 
We are in Transylvania , and Transylvania is not England . 
Our ways are not your ways , and there shall be to you many strange things . 
Nay , from what you have told me of your experiences already , you know something of what strange things there may be . 
Sometimes he sheered off the subject , or turned the conversation by pretending not to understand , but generally he answered all I asked most frankly . 
That treasure has been hidden , he went on , in the region through which you came last night , there can be but little doubt . 
For it was the ground fought over for centuries by the Wallachian , the Saxon , and the Turk . 
Why , there is hardly a foot of soil in all this region that has not been enriched by the blood of men , patriots or invaders . 
When the invader was triumphant he found but little , for whatever there was had been sheltered in the friendly soil . 
And , dear sir , even if he did he would not know what to do . 
Why , even the peasant that you tell me of who marked the place of the flame would not know where to look in daylight even for his own work . 
Even you would not , I dare be sworn , be able to find these places again ? There you are right , I said . 
I know no more than the dead where even to look for them . 
Then we drifted into other matters . 
Come , he said at last , tell me of London and of the house which you have procured for me . 
With an apology for my remissness , I went into my own room to get the papers from my bag . 
When I came in he cleared the books and papers from the table , and with him I went into plans and deeds and figures of all sorts . 
He was interested in everything , and asked me a myriad questions about the place and its surroundings . 
He clearly had studied beforehand all he could get on the subject of the neighborhood , for he evidently at the end knew very much more than I did . 
When I remarked this , he answered . 
I fall into my country's habit of putting your patronymic first , my friend Jonathan Harker will not be by my side to correct and aid me . 
He will be in Exeter , miles away , probably working at papers of the law with my other friend , Peter Hawkins . 
So ! We went thoroughly into the business of the purchase of the estate at Purfleet . 
I read to him the notes which I had made at the time , and which I inscribe here . 
At Purfleet , on a byroad , I came across just such a place as seemed to be required , and where was displayed a dilapidated notice that the place was for sale . 
It was surrounded by a high wall , of ancient structure , built of heavy stones , and has not been repaired for a large number of years . 
The closed gates are of heavy old oak and iron , all eaten with rust . 
The estate is called Carfax , no doubt a corruption of the old Quatre Face , as the house is four sided , agreeing with the cardinal points of the compass . 
It contains in all some twenty acres , quite surrounded by the solid stone wall above mentioned . 
It looks like part of a keep , and is close to an old chapel or church . 
The house had been added to , but in a very straggling way , and I can only guess at the amount of ground it covers , which must be very great . 
There are but few houses close at hand , one being a very large house only recently added to and formed into a private lunatic asylum . 
It is not , however , visible from the grounds . 
When I had finished , he said , I am glad that it is old and big . 
I myself am of an old family , and to live in a new house would kill me . 
A house cannot be made habitable in a day , and after all , how few days go to make up a century . 
I rejoice also that there is a chapel of old times . 
We Transylvanian nobles love not to think that our bones may lie amongst the common dead . 
I seek not gaiety nor mirth , not the bright voluptuousness of much sunshine and sparkling waters which please the young and gay . 
I am no longer young , and my heart , through weary years of mourning over the dead , is attuned to mirth . 
Moreover , the walls of my castle are broken . 
The shadows are many , and the wind breathes cold through the broken battlements and casements . 
I love the shade and the shadow , and would be alone with my thoughts when I may . 
Somehow his words and his look did not seem to accord , or else it was that his cast of face made his smile look malignant and saturnine . 
Presently , with an excuse , he left me , asking me to pull my papers together . 
He was some little time away , and I began to look at some of the books around me . 
One was an atlas , which I found opened naturally to England , as if that map had been much used . 
The other two were Exeter , and Whitby on the Yorkshire coast . 
It was the better part of an hour when the Count returned . 
Still at your books ? Good ! But you must not work always . 
Come ! I am informed that your supper is ready . 
He took my arm , and we went into the next room , where I found an excellent supper ready on the table . 
The Count again excused himself , as he had dined out on his being away from home . 
But he sat as on the previous night , and chatted whilst I ate . 
After supper I smoked , as on the last evening , and the Count stayed with me , chatting and asking questions on every conceivable subject , hour after hour . 
I felt that it was getting very late indeed , but I did not say anything , for I felt under obligation to meet my host's wishes in every way . 
They say that people who are near death die generally at the change to dawn or at the turn of the tide . 
Anyone who has when tired , and tied as it were to his post , experienced this change in the atmosphere can well believe it . 
All at once we heard the crow of the cock coming up with preternatural shrillness through the clear morning air . 
Count Dracula , jumping to his feet , said , Why there is the morning again ! How remiss I am to let you stay up so long . 
I went into my room and drew the curtains , but there was little to notice . 
My window opened into the courtyard , all I could see was the warm grey of quickening sky . 
So I pulled the curtains again , and have written of this day . 
I began to fear as I wrote in this book that I was getting too diffuse . 
But now I am glad that I went into detail from the first , for there is something so strange about this place and all in it that I cannot but feel uneasy . 
I wish I were safe out of it , or that I had never come . 
I have only the Count to speak with , and he I fear I am myself the only living soul within the place . 
Let me be prosaiac so far as facts can be . 
It will help me to bear up , and imagination must not run riot with me . 
If it does I am lost . 
Let me say at once how I stand , or seem to . 
I only slept a few hours when I went to bed , and feeling that I could not sleep any more , got up . 
I had hung my shaving glass by the window , and was just beginning to shave . 
Suddenly I felt a hand on my shoulder , and heard the Count's voice saying to me , Good morning . 
I started , for it amazed me that I had not seen him , since the reflection of the glass covered the whole room behind me . 
In starting I had cut myself slightly , but did not notice it at the moment . 
Having answered the Count's salutation , I turned to the glass again to see how I had been mistaken . 
This time there could be no error , for the man was close to me , and I could see him over my shoulder . 
But there was no reflection of him in the mirror ! The whole room behind me was displayed , but there was no sign of a man in it , except myself . 
This was startling , and coming on the top of so many strange things , was beginning to increase that vague feeling of uneasiness which I always have when the Count is near . 
But at the instant I saw the the cut had bled a little , and the blood was trickling over my chin . 
I laid down the razor , turning as I did so half round to look for some sticking plaster . 
When the Count saw my face , his eyes blazed with a sort of demoniac fury , and he suddenly made a grab at my throat . 
I drew away and his hand touched the string of beads which held the crucifix . 
It made an instant change in him , for the fury passed so quickly that I could hardly believe that it was ever there . 
Take care , he said , take care how you cut yourself . 
It is more dangerous that you think in this country . 
Then seizing the shaving glass , he went on , And this is the wretched thing that has done the mischief . 
It is a foul bauble of man's vanity . 
Then he withdrew without a word . 
When I went into the dining room , breakfast was prepared , but I could not find the Count anywhere . 
It is strange that as yet I have not seen the Count eat or drink . 
He must be a very peculiar man ! After breakfast I did a little exploring in the castle . 
I went out on the stairs , and found a room looking towards the South . 
The view was magnificent , and from where I stood there was every opportunity of seeing it . 
The castle is on the very edge of a terrific precipice . 
Here and there are silver threads where the rivers wind in deep gorges through the forests . 
But I am not in heart to describe beauty , for when I had seen the view I explored further . 
Doors , doors , doors everywhere , and all locked and bolted . 
In no place save from the windows in the castle walls is there an available exit . 
When I look back after a few hours I think I must have been mad for the time , for I behaved much as a rat does in a trap . 
I am thinking still , and as yet have come to no definite conclusion . 
Of one thing only am I certain . 
That it is no use making my ideas known to the Count . 
So far as I can see , my only plan will be to keep my knowledge and my fears to myself , and my eyes open . 
I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the great door below shut , and knew that the Count had returned . 
He did not come at once into the library , so I went cautiously to my own room and found him making the bed . 
This was odd , but only confirmed what I had all along thought , that there are no servants in the house . 
When later I saw him through the chink of the hinges of the door laying the table in the dining room , I was assured of it . 
It is odd that a thing which I have been taught to regard with disfavour and as idolatrous should in a time of loneliness and trouble be of help . 
In the meantime I must find out all I can about Count Dracula , as it may help me to understand . 
Tonight he may talk of himself , if I turn the conversation that way . 
I must be very careful , however , not to awake his suspicion . 
I have had a long talk with the Count . 
I asked him a few questions on Transylvania history , and he warmed up to the subject wonderfully . 
In his speaking of things and people , and especially of battles , he spoke as if he had been present at them all . 
Whenever he spoke of his house he always said we , and spoke almost in the plural , like a king speaking . 
I wish I could put down all he said exactly as he said it , for to me it was most fascinating . 
It seemed to have in it a whole history of the country . 
One thing he said which I shall put down as nearly as I can , for it tells in its way the story of his race . 
We Szekelys have a right to be proud , for in our veins flows the blood of many brave races who fought as the lion fights , for lordship . 
Fools , fools ! What devil or what witch was ever so great as Attila , whose blood is in these veins ? He held up his arms . 
Aye , and more than that , endless duty of the frontier guard , for as the Turks say , water sleeps , and the enemy is sleepless . 
The warlike days are over . 
Blood is too precious a thing in these days of dishonourable peace , and the glories of the great races are as a tale that is told . 
It was by this time close on morning , and we went to bed . 
Let me begin with facts , bare , meager facts , verified by books and figures , and of which there can be no doubt . 
I must not confuse them with experiences which will have to rest on my own observation , or my memory of them . 
Last evening when the Count came from his room he began by asking me questions on legal matters and on the doing of certain kinds of business . 
I had spent the day wearily over books , and , simply to keep my mind occupied , went over some of the matters I had been examined in at Lincoln's Inn . 
There was a certain method in the Count's inquiries , so I shall try to put them down in sequence . 
The knowledge may somehow or some time be useful to me . 
First , he asked if a man in England might have two solicitors or more . 
I asked to explain more fully , so that I might not by any chance mislead him , so he said , I shall illustrate . 
But , said he , I could be at liberty to direct myself . 
For a man who was never in the country , and who did not evidently do much in the way of business , his knowledge and acumen were wonderful . 
Do you wish me to stay so long ? I asked , for my heart grew cold at the thought . 
I desire it much , nay I will take no refusal . 
When your master , employer , what you will , engaged that someone should come on his behalf , it was understood that my needs only were to be consulted . 
I pray you , my good young friend , that you will not discourse of things other than business in your letters . 
It will doubtless please your friends to know that you are well , and that you look forward to getting home to them . 
Is it not so ? As he spoke he handed me three sheets of note paper and three envelopes . 
When I had written my two letters I sat quiet , reading a book whilst the Count wrote several notes , referring as he wrote them to some books on his table . 
I felt no compunction in doing so for under the circumstances I felt that I should protect myself in every way I could . 
One of the letters was directed to Samuel F. Billington , No. , The Crescent , Whitby , another to Herr Leutner , Varna . 
The third was to Coutts Co . 
, London , and the fourth to Herren Klopstock Billreuth , bankers , Buda Pesth . 
The second and fourth were unsealed . 
I was just about to look at them when I saw the door handle move . 
I sank back in my seat , having just had time to resume my book before the Count , holding still another letter in his hand , entered the room . 
You will , I hope , find all things as you wish . 
At the door he turned , and after a moment's pause said , Let me advise you , my dear young friend . 
Nay , let me warn you with all seriousness , that should you leave these rooms you will not by any chance go to sleep in any other part of the castle . 
It is old , and has many memories , and there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely . 
But if you be not careful in this respect , then , He finished his speech in a gruesome way , for he motioned with his hands as if he were washing them . 
My only doubt was as to whether any dream could be more terrible than the unnatural , horrible net of gloom and mystery which seemed closing around me . 
I endorse the last words written , but this time there is no doubt in question . 
I shall not fear to sleep in any place where he is not . 
I have placed the crucifix over the head of my bed , I imagine that my rest is thus freer from dreams , and there it shall remain . 
When he left me I went to my room . 
After a little while , not hearing any sound , I came out and went up the stone stair to where I could look out towards the South . 
There was some sense of freedom in the vast expanse , inaccessible though it was to me , as compared with the narrow darkness of the courtyard . 
Looking out on this , I felt that I was indeed in prison , and I seemed to want a breath of fresh air , though it were of the night . 
I am beginning to feel this nocturnal existence tell on me . 
It is destroying my nerve . 
I start at my own shadow , and am full of all sorts of horrible imaginings . 
In the soft light the distant hills became melted , and the shadows in the valleys and gorges of velvety blackness . 
The mere beauty seemed to cheer me . 
There was peace and comfort in every breath I drew . 
The window at which I stood was tall and deep , stone mullioned , and though weatherworn , was still complete . 
But it was evidently many a day since the case had been there . 
I drew back behind the stonework , and looked carefully out . 
What I saw was the Count's head coming out from the window . 
I did not see the face , but I knew the man by the neck and the movement of his back and arms . 
In any case I could not mistake the hands which I had had some many opportunities of studying . 
I was at first interested and somewhat amused , for it is wonderful how small a matter will interest and amuse a man when he is a prisoner . 
At first I could not believe my eyes . 
I thought it was some trick of the moonlight , some weird effect of shadow , but I kept looking , and it could be no delusion . 
What manner of man is this , or what manner of creature , is it in the semblance of man ? I feel the dread of this horrible place overpowering me . 
I am in fear , in awful fear , and there is no escape for me . 
I am encompassed about with terrors that I dare not think of . 
Once more I have seen the count go out in his lizard fashion . 
He moved downwards in a sidelong way , some hundred feet down , and a good deal to the left . 
He vanished into some hole or window . 
When his head had disappeared , I leaned out to try and see more , but without avail . 
The distance was too great to allow a proper angle of sight . 
I knew he had left the castle now , and thought to use the opportunity to explore more than I had dared to do as yet . 
I went back to the room , and taking a lamp , tried all the doors . 
They were all locked , as I had expected , and the locks were comparatively new . 
But I went down the stone stairs to the hall where I had entered originally . 
I found I could pull back the bolts easily enough and unhook the great chains . 
But the door was locked , and the key was gone ! That key must be in the Count's room . 
I must watch should his door be unlocked , so that I may get it and escape . 
I went on to make a thorough examination of the various stairs and passages , and to try the doors that opened from them . 
One or two small rooms near the hall were open , but there was nothing to see in them except old furniture , dusty with age and moth eaten . 
At last , however , I found one door at the top of the stairway which , though it seemed locked , gave a little under pressure . 
Here was an opportunity which I might not have again , so I exerted myself , and with many efforts forced it back so that I could enter . 
I was now in a wing of the castle further to the right than the rooms I knew and a storey lower down . 
From the windows I could see that the suite of rooms lay along to the south of the castle , the windows of the end room looking out both west and south . 
On the latter side , as well as to the former , there was a great precipice . 
This was evidently the portion of the castle occupied by the ladies in bygone days , for the furniture had more an air of comfort than any I had seen . 
It is the nineteenth century up to date with a vengeance . 
And yet , unless my senses deceive me , the old centuries had , and have , powers of their own which mere modernity cannot kill . 
Later The morning of May . 
God preserve my sanity , for to this I am reduced . 
Safety and the assurance of safety are things of the past . 
Whilst I live on here there is but one thing to hope for , that I may not go mad , if , indeed , I be not mad already . 
Great God ! Merciful God , let me be calm , for out of that way lies madness indeed . 
I begin to get new lights on certain things which have puzzled me . 
Up to now I never quite knew what Shakespeare meant when he made Hamlet say , My tablets ! Quick , my tablets ! tis meet that I put it down , etc . 
, For now , feeling as though my own brain were unhinged or as if the shock had come which must end in its undoing , I turn to my diary for repose . 
The habit of entering accurately must help to soothe me . 
The Count's mysterious warning frightened me at the time . 
It frightens me more not when I think of it , for in the future he has a fearful hold upon me . 
I shall fear to doubt what he may say ! When I had written in my diary and had fortunately replaced the book and pen in my pocket I felt sleepy . 
The Count's warning came into my mind , but I took pleasure in disobeying it . 
The sense of sleep was upon me , and with it the obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider . 
The soft moonlight soothed , and the wide expanse without gave a sense of freedom which refreshed me . 
I suppose I must have fallen asleep . 
The room was the same , unchanged in any way since I came into it . 
I could see along the floor , in the brilliant moonlight , my own footsteps marked where I had disturbed the long accumulation of dust . 
In the moonlight opposite me were three young women , ladies by their dress and manner . 
I thought at the time that I must be dreaming when I saw them , they threw no shadow on the floor . 
They came close to me , and looked at me for some time , and then whispered together . 
The other was fair , as fair as can be , with great masses of golden hair and eyes like pale sapphires . 
I seemed somehow to know her face , and to know it in connection with some dreamy fear , but I could not recollect at the moment how or where . 
All three had brilliant white teeth that shone like pearls against the ruby of their voluptuous lips . 
There was something about them that made me uneasy , some longing and at the same time some deadly fear . 
I felt in my heart a wicked , burning desire that they would kiss me with those red lips . 
It is not good to note this down , lest some day it should meet Mina's eyes and cause her pain , but it is the truth . 
It was like the intolerable , tingling sweetness of waterglasses when played on by a cunning hand . 
The fair girl shook her head coquettishly , and the other two urged her on . 
One said , Go on ! You are first , and we shall follow . 
Yours' is the right to begin . 
The other added , He is young and strong . 
There are kisses for us all . 
I lay quiet , looking out from under my eyelashes in an agony of delightful anticipation . 
The fair girl advanced and bent over me till I could feel the movement of her breath upon me . 
I was afraid to raise my eyelids , but looked out and saw perfectly under the lashes . 
The girl went on her knees , and bent over me , simply gloating . 
Lower and lower went her head as the lips went below the range of my mouth and chin and seemed to fasten on my throat . 
Then she paused , and I could hear the churning sound of her tongue as it licked her teeth and lips , and I could feel the hot breath on my neck . 
Then the skin of my throat began to tingle as one's flesh does when the hand that is to tickle it approaches nearer , nearer . 
I closed my eyes in languorous ecstasy and waited , waited with beating heart . 
But at that instant , another sensation swept through me as quick as lightning . 
I was conscious of the presence of the Count , and of his being as if lapped in a storm of fury . 
But the Count ! Never did I imagine such wrath and fury , even to the demons of the pit . 
His eyes were positively blazing . 
The red light in them was lurid , as if the flames of hell fire blazed behind them . 
His face was deathly pale , and the lines of it were hard like drawn wires . 
The thick eyebrows that met over the nose now seemed like a heaving bar of whitehot metal . 
With a fierce sweep of his arm , he hurled the woman from him , and then motioned to the others , as though he were beating them back . 
It was the same imperious gesture that I had seen used to the wolves . 
The fair girl , with a laugh of ribald coquetry , turned to answer him . 
You never love ! On this the other women joined , and such a mirthless , hard , soulless laughter rang through the room that it almost made me faint to hear . 
It seemed like the pleasure of fiends . 
Then the Count turned , after looking at my face attentively , and said in a soft whisper , Yes , I too can love . 
You yourselves can tell it from the past . 
Is it not so ? Well , now I promise you that when I am done with him you shall kiss him at your will . 
Now go ! Go ! I must awaken him , for there is work to be done . 
For answer he nodded his head . 
One of the women jumped forward and opened it . 
If my ears did not deceive me there was a gasp and a low wail , as of a half smothered child . 
The women closed round , whilst I was aghast with horror . 
But as I looked , they disappeared , and with them the dreadful bag . 
There was no door near them , and they could not have passed me without my noticing . 
Then the horror overcame me , and I sank down unconscious . 
CHAPTER Jonathan Harker's Journal Continued I awoke in my own bed . 
If it be that I had not dreamt , the Count must have carried me here . 
I tried to satisfy myself on the subject , but could not arrive at any unquestionable result . 
To be sure , there were certain small evidences , such as that my clothes were folded and laid by in a manner which was not my habit . 
My watch was still unwound , and I am rigorously accustomed to wind it the last thing before going to bed , and many such details . 
I must watch for proof . 
Of one thing I am glad . 
If it was that the Count carried me here and undressed me , he must have been hurried in his task , for my pockets are intact . 
I am sure this diary would have been a mystery to him which he would not have brooked . 
He would have taken or destroyed it . 
I have been down to look at that room again in daylight , for I must know the truth . 
When I got to the doorway at the top of the stairs I found it closed . 
It had been so forcibly driven against the jamb that part of the woodwork was splintered . 
I could see that the bolt of the lock had not been shot , but the door is fastened from the inside . 
I fear it was no dream , and must act on this surmise . 
I am surely in the toils . 
I would fain have rebelled , but felt that in the present state of things it would be madness to quarrel openly with the Count whilst I am so absolutely in his power . 
And to refuse would be to excite his suspicion and to arouse his anger . 
He knows that I know too much , and that I must not live , lest I be dangerous to him . 
My only chance is to prolong my opportunities . 
Something may occur which will give ma a chance to escape . 
I saw in his eyes something of that gathering wrath which was manifest when he hurled that fair woman from him . 
He explained to me that posts were few and uncertain , and that my writing now would ensure ease of mind to my friends . 
I therefore pretended to fall in with his views , and asked him what dates I should put on the letters . 
He calculated a minute , and then said , The first should be June , the second June , and the third June . 
I know now the span of my life . 
God help me ! May . 
There is a chance of escape , or at any rate of being able to send word home . 
A band of Szgany have come to the castle , and are encamped in the courtyard . 
I have notes of them in my book . 
They are peculiar to this part of the world , though allied to the ordinary gipsies all the world over . 
There are thousands of them in Hungary and Transylvania , who are almost outside all law . 
They attach themselves as a rule to some great noble or boyar , and call themselves by his name . 
They are fearless and without religion , save superstition , and they talk only their own varieties of the Romany tongue . 
I shall write some letters home , and shall try to get them to have them posted . 
I have already spoken to them through my window to begin acquaintanceship . 
They took their hats off and made obeisance and many signs , which however , I could not understand any more than I could their spoken language . 
I have written the letters . 
Mina's is in shorthand , and I simply ask Mr. Hawkins to communicate with her . 
To her I have explained my situation , but without the horrors which I may only surmise . 
It would shock and frighten her to death were I to expose my heart to her . 
Should the letters not carry , then the Count shall not yet know my secret or the extent of my knowledge . 
I have given the letters . 
I threw them through the bars of my window with a gold piece , and made what signs I could to have them posted . 
The man who took them pressed them to his heart and bowed , and then put them in his cap . 
I could do no more . 
I stole back to the study , and began to read . 
As the Count did not come in , I have written here . 
See ! He must have looked at it . 
One is from you , and to my friend Peter Hawkins . 
Well ! So it cannot matter to us . 
And he calmly held letter and envelope in the flame of the lamp till they were consumed . 
Then he went on , The letter to Hawkins , that I shall , of course send on , since it is yours . 
Your letters are sacred to me . 
Your pardon , my friend , that unknowingly I did break the seal . 
Will you not cover it again ? He held out the letter to me , and with a courteous bow handed me a clean envelope . 
I could only redirect it and hand it to him in silence . 
When he went out of the room I could hear the key turn softly . 
A minute later I went over and tried it , and the door was locked . 
When , an hour or two after , the Count came quietly into the room , his coming awakened me , for I had gone to sleep on the sofa . 
There is the surest rest . 
I may not have the pleasure of talk tonight , since there are many labours to me , but you will sleep , I pray . 
I passed to my room and went to bed , and , strange to say , slept without dreaming . 
Despair has its own calms . 
I sat and pondered awhile , and then some thought occurred to me , and I made search of my portmanteau and in the wardrobe where I had placed my clothes . 
The suit in which I had travelled was gone , and also my overcoat and rug . 
I could find no trace of them anywhere . 
This looked like some new scheme of villainy . 
They had also their long staves in hand . 
I ran to the door , intending to descend and try and join them through the main hall , as I thought that way might be opened for them . 
Again a shock , my door was fastened on the outside . 
Then I ran to the window and cried to them . 
Henceforth no effort of mine , no piteous cry or agonized entreaty , would make them even look at me . 
The leiter wagons contained great , square boxes , with handles of thick rope . 
These were evidently empty by the ease with which the Slovaks handled them , and by their resonance as they were roughly moved . 
Shortly afterwards , I heard the crackling of their whips die away in the distance . 
Last night the Count left me early , and locked himself into his own room . 
As soon as I dared I ran up the winding stair , and looked out of the window , which opened South . 
I thought I would watch for the Count , for there is something going on . 
The Szgany are quartered somewhere in the castle and are doing work of some kind . 
I had been at the window somewhat less than half an hour , when I saw something coming out of the Count's window . 
I drew back and watched carefully , and saw the whole man emerge . 
I thought I would watch for the Count's return , and for a long time sat doggedly at the window . 
Then I began to notice that there were some quaint little specks floating in the rays of the moonlight . 
They were like the tiniest grains of dust , and they whirled round and gathered in clusters in a nebulous sort of way . 
I watched them with a sense of soothing , and a sort of calm stole over me . 
I leaned back in the embrasure in a more comfortable position , so that I could enjoy more fully the aerial gambolling . 
Something made me start up , a low , piteous howling of dogs somewhere far below in the valley , which was hidden from my sight . 
Louder it seemed to ring in my ears , and the floating moats of dust to take new shapes to the sound as they danced in the moonlight . 
I felt myself struggling to awake to some call of my instincts . 
Nay , my very soul was struggling , and my half remembered sensibilities were striving to answer the call . 
I was becoming hypnotised ! Quicker and quicker danced the dust . 
The moonbeams seemed to quiver as they went by me into the mass of gloom beyond . 
More and more they gathered till they seemed to take dim phantom shapes . 
And then I started , broad awake and in full possession of my senses , and ran screaming from the place . 
The phantom shapes , which were becoming gradually materialised from the moonbeams , were those three ghostly women to whom I was doomed . 
I fled , and felt somewhat safer in my own room , where there was no moonlight , and where the lamp was burning brightly . 
When a couple of hours had passed I heard something stirring in the Count's room , something like a sharp wail quickly suppressed . 
And then there was silence , deep , awful silence , which chilled me . 
With a beating heart , I tried the door , but I was locked in my prison , and could do nothing . 
I sat down and simply cried . 
As I sat I heard a sound in the courtyard without , the agonised cry of a woman . 
I rushed to the window , and throwing it up , peered between the bars . 
There , indeed , was a woman with dishevelled hair , holding her hands over her heart as one distressed with running . 
She was leaning against the corner of the gateway . 
Then she tore her hair and beat her breast , and abandoned herself to all the violences of extravagant emotion . 
Finally , she threw herself forward , and though I could not see her , I could hear the beating of her naked hands against the door . 
Somewhere high overhead , probably on the tower , I heard the voice of the Count calling in his harsh , metallic whisper . 
His call seemed to be answered from far and wide by the howling of wolves . 
Before many minutes had passed a pack of them poured , like a pent up dam when liberated , through the wide entrance into the courtyard . 
There was no cry from the woman , and the howling of the wolves was but short . 
Before long they streamed away singly , licking their lips . 
I could not pity her , for I knew now what had become of her child , and she was better dead . 
What shall I do ? What can I do ? How can I escape from this dreadful thing of night , gloom , and fear ? June . 
No man knows till he has suffered from the night how sweet and dear to his heart and eye the morning can be . 
My fear fell from me as if it had been a vaporous garment which dissolved in the warmth . 
I must take action of some sort whilst the courage of the day is upon me . 
Last night one of my post dated letters went to post , the first of that fatal series which is to blot out the very traces of my existence from the earth . 
Let me not think of it . 
Action ! It has always been at night time that I have been molested or threatened , or in some way in danger or in fear . 
I have not yet seen the Count in the daylight . 
The door is always locked , no way for me . 
Yes , there is a way , if one dares to take it . 
Where his body has gone why may not another body go ? I have seen him myself crawl from his window . 
Why should not I imitate him , and go in by his window ? The chances are desperate , but my need is more desperate still . 
At the worst it can only be death , and a man's death is not a calf's , and the dreaded Hereafter may still be open to me . 
God help me in my task ! Goodbye , Mina , if I fail . 
Goodbye , my faithful friend and second father . 
Goodbye , all , and last of all Mina ! Same day , later . 
I have made the effort , and God helping me , have come safely back to this room . 
I must put down every detail in order . 
I went whilst my courage was fresh straight to the window on the south side , and at once got outside on this side . 
The stones are big and roughly cut , and the mortar has by process of time been washed away between them . 
I took off my boots , and ventured out on the desperate way . 
I looked down once , so as to make sure that a sudden glimpse of the awful depth would not overcome me , but after that kept my eyes away from it . 
I know pretty well the direction and distance of the Count's window , and made for it as well as I could , having regard to the opportunities available . 
I was filled with agitation , however , when I bent down and slid feet foremost in through the window . 
Then I looked around for the Count , but with surprise and gladness , made a discovery . 
The room was empty ! It was barely furnished with odd things , which seemed to have never been used . 
The furniture was something the same style as that in the south rooms , and was covered with dust . 
I looked for the key , but it was not in the lock , and I could not find it anywhere . 
None of it that I noticed was less than three hundred years old . 
There were also chains and ornaments , some jewelled , but all of them old and stained . 
At one corner of the room was a heavy door . 
It was open , and led through a stone passage to a circular stairway , which went steeply down . 
I descended , minding carefully where I went for the stairs were dark , being only lit by loopholes in the heavy masonry . 
At the bottom there was a dark , tunnel like passage , through which came a deathly , sickly odour , the odour of old earth newly turned . 
As I went through the passage the smell grew closer and heavier . 
At last I pulled open a heavy door which stood ajar , and found myself in an old ruined chapel , which had evidently been used as a graveyard . 
There was nobody about , and I made a search over every inch of the ground , so as not to lose a chance . 
I went down even into the vaults , where the dim light struggled , although to do so was a dread to my very soul . 
Into two of these I went , but saw nothing except fragments of old coffins and piles of dust . 
In the third , however , I made a discovery . 
I could not say which , for eyes were open and stony , but without the glassiness of death , and the cheeks had the warmth of life through all their pallor . 
The lips were as red as ever . 
But there was no sign of movement , no pulse , no breath , no beating of the heart . 
I bent over him , and tried to find any sign of life , but in vain . 
He could not have lain there long , for the earthy smell would have passed away in a few hours . 
By the side of the box was its cover , pierced with holes here and there . 
Regaining my room , I threw myself panting upon the bed and tried to think . 
As he went down the wall , lizard fashion , I wished I had a gun or some lethal weapon , that I might destroy him . 
But I fear that no weapon wrought along by man's hand would have any effect on him . 
I dared not wait to see him return , for I feared to see those weird sisters . 
I came back to the library , and read there till I fell asleep . 
I was awakened by the Count , who looked at me as grimly as a man could look as he said , Tomorrow , my friend , we must part . 
You return to your beautiful England , I to some work which may have such an end that we may never meet . 
Your letter home has been despatched . 
Tomorrow I shall not be here , but all shall be ready for your journey . 
In the morning come the Szgany , who have some labours of their own here , and also come some Slovaks . 
When they have gone , my carriage shall come for you , and shall bear you to the Borgo Pass to meet the diligence from Bukovina to Bistritz . 
But I am in hopes that I shall see more of you at Castle Dracula . 
I suspected him , and determined to test his sincerity . 
But I would walk with pleasure . 
I want to get away at once . 
He smiled , such a soft , smooth , diabolical smile that I knew there was some trick behind his smoothness . 
He said , And your baggage ? I do not care about it . 
I can send for it some other time . 
Come with me , my dear young friend . 
Not an hour shall you wait in my house against your will , though sad am I at your going , and that you so suddenly desire it . 
Come ! With a stately gravity , he , with the lamp , preceded me down the stairs and along the hall . 
Hark ! Close at hand came the howling of many wolves . 
It was almost as if the sound sprang up at the rising of his hand , just as the music of a great orchestra seems to leap under the baton of the conductor . 
To my intense astonishment I saw that it was unlocked . 
Suspiciously , I looked all round , but could see no key of any kind . 
As the door began to open , the howling of the wolves without grew louder and angrier . 
Their red jaws , with champing teeth , and their blunt clawed feet as they leaped , came in through the opening door . 
I knew than that to struggle at the moment against the Count was useless . 
With such allies as these at his command , I could do nothing . 
But still the door continued slowly to open , and only the Count's body stood in the gap . 
Suddenly it struck me that this might be the moment and means of my doom . 
I was to be given to the wolves , and at my own instigation . 
There was a diabolical wickedness in the idea great enough for the Count , and as the last chance I cried out , Shut the door ! I shall wait till morning . 
And I covered my face with my hands to hide my tears of bitter disappointment . 
With one sweep of his powerful arm , the Count threw the door shut , and the great bolts clanged and echoed through the hall as they shot back into their places . 
In silence we returned to the library , and after a minute or two I went to my own room . 
When I was in my room and about to lie down , I thought I heard a whispering at my door . 
I went to it softly and listened . 
Unless my ears deceived me , I heard the voice of the Count . 
Back ! Back to your own place ! Your time is not yet come . 
Wait ! Have patience ! Tonight is mine . 
As I appeared , they all joined in a horrible laugh , and ran away . 
I came back to my room and threw myself on my knees . 
It is then so near the end ? Tomorrow ! Tomorrow ! Lord , help me , and those to whom I am dear ! June . 
These may be the last words I ever write in this diary . 
I slept till just before the dawn , and when I woke threw myself on my knees , for I determined that if Death came he should find me ready . 
At last I felt that subtle change in the air , and knew that the morning had come . 
Then came the welcome cockcrow , and I felt that I was safe . 
With a glad heart , I opened the door and ran down the hall . 
I had seen that the door was unlocked , and now escape was before me . 
With hands that trembled with eagerness , I unhooked the chains and threw back the massive bolts . 
But the door would not move . 
I pulled and pulled at the door , and shook it till , massive as it was , it rattled in its casement . 
I could see the bolt shot . 
It had been locked after I left the Count . 
Then a wild desire took me to obtain the key at any risk , and I determined then and there to scale the wall again , and gain the Count's room . 
He might kill me , but death now seemed the happier choice of evils . 
Without a pause I rushed up to the east window , and scrambled down the wall , as before , into the Count's room . 
It was empty , but that was as I expected . 
I could not see a key anywhere , but the heap of gold remained . 
I went through the door in the corner and down the winding stair and along the dark passage to the old chapel . 
I knew now well enough where to find the monster I sought . 
I knew I must reach the body for the key , so I raised the lid , and laid it back against the wall . 
And then I saw something which filled my very soul with horror . 
There lay the Count , but looking as if his youth had been half restored . 
For the white hair and moustache were changed to dark iron grey . 
The cheeks were fuller , and the white skin seemed ruby red underneath . 
The mouth was redder than ever , for on the lips were gouts of fresh blood , which trickled from the corners of the mouth and ran down over the chin and neck . 
Even the deep , burning eyes seemed set amongst swollen flesh , for the lids and pouches underneath were bloated . 
It seemed as if the whole awful creature were simply gorged with blood . 
He lay like a filthy leech , exhausted with his repletion . 
I shuddered as I bent over to touch him , and every sense in me revolted at the contact , but I had to search , or I was lost . 
The coming night might see my own body a banquet in a similar war to those horrid three . 
I felt all over the body , but no sign could I find of the key . 
Then I stopped and looked at the Count . 
There was a mocking smile on the bloated face which seemed to drive me mad . 
The very thought drove me mad . 
A terrible desire came upon me to rid the world of such a monster . 
But as I did so the head turned , and the eyes fell upon me , with all their blaze of basilisk horror . 
The sight seemed to paralyze me , and the shovel turned in my hand and glanced from the face , merely making a deep gash above the forehead . 
The last glimpse I had was of the bloated face , blood stained and fixed with a grin of malice which would have held its own in the nethermost hell . 
I thought and thought what should be my next move , but my brain seemed on fire , and I waited with a despairing feeling growing over me . 
As I waited I heard in the distance a gipsy song sung by merry voices coming closer , and through their song the rolling of heavy wheels and the cracking of whips . 
The Szgany and the Slovaks of whom the Count had spoken were coming . 
With strained ears , I listened , and heard downstairs the grinding of the key in the great lock and the falling back of the heavy door . 
There must have been some other means of entry , or some one had a key for one of the locked doors . 
Then there came the sound of many feet tramping and dying away in some passage which sent up a clanging echo . 
When I ran to push it open , I found that it was hopelessly fast . 
I was again a prisoner , and the net of doom was closing round me more closely . 
There was a sound of hammering . 
It is the box being nailed down . 
Now I can hear the heavy feet tramping again along the hall , with with many other idle feet coming behind them . 
The door is shut , the chains rattle . 
There is a grinding of the key in the lock . 
I can hear the key withdrawn , then another door opens and shuts . 
I hear the creaking of lock and bolt . 
Hark ! In the courtyard and down the rocky way the roll of heavy wheels , the crack of whips , and the chorus of the Szgany as they pass into the distance . 
I am alone in the castle with those horrible women . 
Faugh ! Mina is a woman , and there is nought in common . 
They are devils of the Pit ! I shall not remain alone with them . 
I shall try to scale the castle wall farther than I have yet attempted . 
I shall take some of the gold with me , lest I want it later . 
I may find a way from this dreadful place . 
At its foot a man may sleep , as a man . 
Mina ! CHAPTER LETTER FROM MISS MINA MURRAY TO MISS LUCY WESTENRA May . 
My dearest Lucy , Forgive my long delay in writing , but I have been simply overwhelmed with work . 
The life of an assistant schoolmistress is sometimes trying . 
I am longing to be with you , and by the sea , where we can talk together freely and build our castles in the air . 
I have been working very hard lately , because I want to keep up with Jonathan's studies , and I have been practicing shorthand very assiduously . 
He and I sometimes write letters in shorthand , and he is keeping a stenographic journal of his travels abroad . 
When I am with you I shall keep a diary in the same way . 
I don't mean one of those two pages to the week with Sunday squeezed in a corner diaries , but a sort of journal which I can write in whenever I feel inclined . 
I do not suppose there will be much of interest to other people , but it is not intended for them . 
I may show it to Jonathan some day if there is in it anything worth sharing , but it is really an exercise book . 
I shall try to do what I see lady journalists do , interviewing and writing descriptions and trying to remember conversations . 
I am told that , with a little practice , one can remember all that goes on or that one hears said during a day . 
However , we shall see . 
I will tell you of my little plans when we meet . 
I have just had a few hurried lines from Jonathan from Transylvania . 
He is well , and will be returning in about a week . 
I am longing to hear all his news . 
It must be nice to see strange countries . 
I wonder if we , I mean Jonathan and I , shall ever see them together . 
There is the ten o'clock bell ringing . 
Your loving Mina Tell me all the news when you write . 
You have not told me anything for a long time . 
I hear rumours , and especially of a tall , handsome , curly haired man . 
? ? ? LETTER , LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY , Chatham Street Wednesday My dearest Mina , I must say you tax me very unfairly with being a bad correspondent . 
I wrote you twice since we parted , and your last letter was only your second . 
Besides , I have nothing to tell you . 
There is really nothing to interest you . 
Town is very pleasant just now , and we go a great deal to picture galleries and for walks and rides in the park . 
As to the tall , curly haired man , I suppose it was the one who was with me at the last Pop . 
Someone has evidently been telling tales . 
He often comes to see us , and he and Mamma get on very well together , they have so many things to talk about in common . 
We met some time ago a man that would just do for you , if you were not already engaged to Jonathan . 
He is an excellant parti , being handsome , well off , and of good birth . 
He is a doctor and really clever . 
Just fancy ! He is only nine and twenty , and he has an immense lunatic asylum all under his own care . 
Mr. Holmwood introduced him to me , and he called here to see us , and often comes now . 
I think he is one of the most resolute men I ever saw , and yet the most calm . 
I can fancy what a wonderful power he must have over his patients . 
He has a curious habit of looking one straight in the face , as if trying to read one's thoughts . 
He tries this on very much with me , but I flatter myself he has got a tough nut to crack . 
I know that from my glass . 
He say that I afford him a curious psychological study , and I humbly think I do . 
I do not , as you know , take sufficient interest in dress to be able to describe the new fashions . 
That is slang again , but never mind . 
Arthur says that every day . 
There , it is all out , Mina , we have told all our secrets to each other since we were children . 
We have slept together and eaten together , and laughed and cried together , and now , though I have spoken , I would like to speak more . 
Oh , Mina , couldn't you guess ? I love him . 
I am blushing as I write , for although I think he loves me , he has not told me so in words . 
But , oh , Mina , I love him . 
I love him ! There , that does me good . 
I wish I were with you , dear , sitting by the fire undressing , as we used to sit , and I would try to tell you what I feel . 
I do not know how I am writing this even to you . 
I am afraid to stop , or I should tear up the letter , and I don't want to stop , for I do so want to tell you all . 
Let me hear from you at once , and tell me all that you think about it . 
Mina , pray for my happiness . 
Lucy P. S. I need not tell you this is a secret . 
L. LETTER , LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY May My dearest Mina , Thanks , and thanks , and thanks again for your sweet letter . 
It was so nice to be able to tell you and to have your sympathy . 
My dear , it never rains but it pours . 
How true the old proverbs are . 
Here am I , who shall be twenty in September , and yet I never had a proposal till today , not a real proposal , and today I had three . 
Just fancy ! Three proposals in one day ! Isn't it awful ! I feel sorry , really and truly sorry , for two of the poor fellows . 
Oh , Mina , I am so happy that I don't know what to do with myself . 
Some girls are so vain ! You and I , Mina dear , who are engaged and are going to settle down soon soberly into old married women , can despise vanity . 
Well , I must tell you about the three , but you must keep it a secret , dear , from every one except , of course , Jonathan . 
You will tell him , because I would , if I were in your place , certainly tell Arthur . 
A woman ought to tell her husband everything . 
Don't you think so , dear ? And I must be fair . 
Men like women , certainly their wives , to be quite as fair as they are . 
And women , I am afraid , are not always quite as fair as they should be . 
Well , my dear , number One came just before lunch . 
I told you of him , Dr . 
John Seward , the lunatic asylum man , with the strong jaw and the good forehead . 
He was very cool outwardly , but was nervous all the same . 
He spoke to me , Mina , very straightfordwardly . 
He told me how dear I was to him , though he had known me so little , and what his life would be with me to help and cheer him . 
And then , Mina , I felt a sort of duty to tell him that there was some one . 
Oh , Mina dear , I can't help crying , and you must excuse this letter being all blotted . 
My dear , I must stop here at present , I feel so miserable , though I am so happy . 
Arthur has just gone , and I feel in better spirits than when I left off , so I can go on telling you about the day . 
Well , my dear , number Two came after lunch . 
I sympathize with poor Desdemona when she had such a stream poured in her ear , even by a black man . 
I suppose that we women are such cowards that we think a man will save us from fears , and we marry him . 
I know now what I would do if I were a man and wanted to make a girl love me . 
No , I don't , for there was Mr. Morris telling us his stories , and Arthur never told any , and yet . 
My dear , I am somewhat previous . 
Mr. Quincy P. Morris found me alone . 
It seems that a man always does find a girl alone . 
No , he doesn't , for Arthur tried twice to make a chance , and I helping him all I could , I am not ashamed to say it now . 
I am afraid , my dear , he has to invent it all , for it fits exactly into whatever else he has to say . 
But this is a way slang has . 
I do not know myself if I shall ever speak slang . 
I do not know if Arthur likes it , as I have never heard him use any as yet . 
Well , Mr. Morris sat down beside me and looked as happy and jolly as he could , but I could see all the same that he was very nervous . 
He took my hand in his , and said ever so sweetly . 
So I said , as lightly as I could , that I did not know anything of hitching , and that I wasn't broken to harness at all yet . 
He really did look serious when he was saying it , and I couldn't help feeling a sort of exultation that he was number Two in one day . 
And then , my dear , before I could say a word he began pouring out a perfect torrent of love making , laying his very heart and soul at my feet . 
He looked so earnest over it that I shall never again think that a man must be playful always , and never earnest , because he is merry at times . 
Lucy , you are an honest hearted girl , I know . 
I should not be here speaking to you as I am now if I did not believe you clean grit , right through to the very depths of your soul . 
My dear Mina , why are men so noble when we women are so little worthy of them ? Here was I almost making fun of this great hearted , true gentleman . 
I burst into tears , I am afraid , my dear , you will think this a very sloppy letter in more ways than one , and I really felt very badly . 
I am glad to say that , though I was crying , I was able to look into Mr. Morris' brave eyes , and I told him out straight . 
Yes , there is some one I love , though he has not told me yet that he even loves me . 
It's better worth being late for a chance of winning you than being in time for any other girl in the world . 
Don't cry , my dear . 
If it's for me , I'm a hard nut to crack , and I take it standing up . 
If that other fellow doesn't know his happiness , well , he'd better look for it soon , or he'll have to deal with me . 
Little girl , your honesty and pluck have made me a friend , and that's rarer than a lover , it's more selfish anyhow . 
My dear , I'm going to have a pretty lonely walk between this and Kingdom Come . 
Won't you give me one kiss ? It'll be something to keep off the darkness now and then . 
You can , you know , if you like , for that other good fellow , or you could not love him , hasn't spoken yet . 
Thank you for your sweet honesty to me , and goodbye . 
Lucy P. S. Oh , about number Three , I needn't tell you of number Three , need I ? Besides , it was all so confused . 
It seemed only a moment from his coming into the room till both his arms were round me , and he was kissing me . 
I am very , very happy , and I don't know what I have done to deserve it . 
Ebb tide in appetite today . 
Cannot eat , cannot rest , so diary instead . 
since my rebuff of yesterday I have a sort of empty feeling . 
Nothing in the world seems of sufficient importance to be worth the doing . 
As I knew that the only cure for this sort of thing was work , I went amongst the patients . 
I picked out one who has afforded me a study of much interest . 
He is so quaint that I am determined to understand him as well as I can . 
Today I seemed to get nearer than ever before to the heart of his mystery . 
I questioned him more fully than I had ever done , with a view to making myself master of the facts of his hallucination . 
In my manner of doing it there was , I now see , something of cruelty . 
I seemed to wish to keep him to the point of his madness , a thing which I avoid with the patients as I would the mouth of hell . 
Hell has its price ! If there be anything behind this instinct it will be valuable to trace it afterwards accurately , so I had better commence to do so , therefore . 
R. M , Renfield , age . 
Sanguine temperament , great physical strength , morbidly excitable , periods of gloom , ending in some fixed idea which I cannot make out . 
I presume that the sanguine temperament itself and the disturbing influence end in a mentally accomplished finish , a possibly dangerous man , probably dangerous if unselfish . 
In selfish men caution is as secure an armour for their foes as for themselves . 
What I think of on this point is , when self is the fixed point the centripetal force is balanced with the centrifugal . 
When duty , a cause , etc . 
, is the fixed point , the latter force is paramount , and only accident of a series of accidents can balance it . 
LETTER , QUINCEY P. MORRIS TO HON . 
There are more yarns to be told , and other wounds to be healed , and another health to be drunk . 
There will only be one other , our old pal at the Korea , Jack Seward . 
We promise you a hearty welcome , and a loving greeting , and a health as true as your own right hand . 
We shall both swear to leave you at home if you drink too deep to a certain pair of eyes . 
Come ! Yours , as ever and always , Quincey P. Morris TELEGRAM FROM ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO QUINCEY P. MORRIS May Count me in every time . 
I bear messages which will make both your ears tingle . 
Art CHAPTER MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL July . 
Lucy met me at the station , looking sweeter and lovlier than ever , and we drove up to the house at the Crescent in which they have rooms . 
This is a lovely place . 
The little river , the Esk , runs through a deep valley , which broadens out as it comes near the harbour . 
A great viaduct runs across , with high piers , through which the view seems somehow further away than it really is . 
It is a most noble ruin , of immense size , and full of beautiful and romantic bits . 
There is a legend that a white lady is seen in one of the windows . 
Between it and the town there is another church , the parish one , round which is a big graveyard , all full of tombstones . 
It descends so steeply over the harbour that part of the bank has fallen away , and some of the graves have been destroyed . 
In one place part of the stonework of the graves stretches out over the sandy pathway far below . 
There are walks , with seats beside them , through the churchyard , and people go and sit there all day long looking at the beautiful view and enjoying the breeze . 
I shall come and sit here often myself and work . 
Indeed , I am writing now , with my book on my knee , and listening to the talk of three old men who are sitting beside me . 
They seem to do nothing all day but sit here and talk . 
A heavy seawall runs along outside of it . 
On the near side , the seawall makes an elbow crooked inversely , and its end too has a lighthouse . 
Between the two piers there is a narrow opening into the harbour , which then suddenly widens . 
Outside the harbour on this side there rises for about half a mile a great reef , the sharp of which runs straight out from behind the south lighthouse . 
At the end of it is a buoy with a bell , which swings in bad weather , and sends in a mournful sound on the wind . 
They have a legend here that when a ship is lost bells are heard out at sea . 
I must ask the old man about this . 
He is coming this way . 
He is a funny old man . 
He must be awfully old , for his face is gnarled and twisted like the bark of a tree . 
He tells me that he is nearly a hundred , and that he was a sailor in the Greenland fishing fleet when Waterloo was fought . 
Them things be all wore out . 
Mind , I don't say that they never was , but I do say that they wasn't in my time . 
They be all very well for comers and trippers , an' the like , but not for a nice young lady like you . 
Them feet folks from York and Leeds that be always eatin'cured herrin's and drinkin' tea an' lookin' out to buy cheap jet would creed aught . 
I wonder masel' who'd be bothered tellin' lies to them , even the newspapers , which is full of fool talk . 
I thought he would be a good person to learn interesting things from , so I asked him if he would mind telling me something about the whale fishing in the old days . 
He was just settling himself to begin when the clock struck six , whereupon he laboured to get up , and said , I must gang ageeanwards home now , miss . 
He hobbled away , and I could see him hurrying , as well as he could , down the steps . 
The steps are a great feature on the place . 
They lead from the town to the church , there are hundreds of them , I do not know how many , and they wind up in a delicate curve . 
The slope is so gentle that a horse could easily walk up and down them . 
I think they must originally have had something to do with the abbey . 
I shall go home too . 
Lucy went out , visiting with her mother , and as they were only duty calls , I did not go . 
I came up here an hour ago with Lucy , and we had a most interesting talk with my old friend and the two others who always come and join him . 
He is evidently the Sir Oracle of them , and I should think must have been in his time a most dictatorial person . 
He will not admit anything , and down faces everybody . 
If he can't out argue them he bullies them , and then takes their silence for agreement with his views . 
Lucy was looking sweetly pretty in her white lawn frock . 
She has got a beautiful colour since she has been here . 
I noticed that the old men did not lose any time in coming and sitting near her when we sat down . 
She is so sweet with old people , I think they all fell in love with her on the spot . 
Even my old man succumbed and did not contradict her , but gave me double share instead . 
I got him on the subject of the legends , and he went off at once into a sort of sermon . 
I must try to remember it and put it down . 
It be all fool talk , lock , stock , and barrel , that's what it be and nowt else . 
These bans an' wafts an' boh ghosts an' bar guests an' bogles an' all anent them is only fit to set bairns an' dizzy women a'belderin' . 
They be nowt but air blebs . 
It makes me ireful to think o' them . 
Why , it's them that , not content with printin' lies on paper an' preachin' them ou t of pulpits , does want to be cuttin' them on the tombstones . 
Look here all around you in what airt ye will . 
Oh , Mr. Swales , you can't be serious . 
The whole thing be only lies . 
You come here a stranger , an' you see this kirkgarth . 
I nodded , for I thought it better to assent , though I did not quite understand his dialect . 
I knew it had something to do with the church . 
He went on , And you consate that all these steans be aboon folk that be haped here , snod an' snog ? I assented again . 
Then that be just where the lie comes in . 
Why , there be scores of these laybeds that be toom as old Dun's baccabox on Friday night . 
He nudged one of his companions , and they all laughed . 
There be the steans around ye . 
Ye can , with your young eyes , read the small print of the lies from here . 
This was evidently local pleasantry , for the old man cackled over it , and his cronies joined in with gusto . 
Do you think that will be really necessary ? Well , what else be they tombstones for ? Answer me that , miss ! To please their relatives , I suppose . 
To please their relatives , you suppose ! This he said with intense scorn . 
Read the lies on that thruff stone , he said . 
This tomb was erected by his sorrowing mother to her dearly beloved son . 
He was the only son of his mother , and she was a widow . 
Really , Mr. Swales , I don't see anything very funny in that ! She spoke her comment very gravely and somewhat severely . 
He blew nigh the top of his head off with an old musket that they had for scarin' crows with . 
twarn't for crows then , for it brought the clegs and the dowps to him . 
That's the way he fell off the rocks . 
That won't harm ye , my pretty , an' it may make poor Geordie gladsome to have so trim a lass sittin' on his lap . 
Why , I've sat here off an' on for nigh twenty years past , an' it hasn't done me no harm . 
There's the clock , and'I must gang . 
My service to ye , ladies ! And off he hobbled . 
That made me just a little heart sick , for I haven't heard from Jonathan for a whole month . 
I came up here alone , for I am very sad . 
There was no letter for me . 
I hope there cannot be anything the matter with Jonathan . 
The clock has just struck nine . 
I see the lights scattered all over the town , sometimes in rows where the streets are , and sometimes singly . 
They run right up the Esk and die away in the curve of the valley . 
To my left the view is cut off by a black line of roof of the old house next to the abbey . 
The sheep and lambs are bleating in the fields away behind me , and there is a clatter of donkeys' hoofs up the paved road below . 
The band on the pier is playing a harsh waltz in good time , and further along the quay there is a Salvation Army meeting in a back street . 
Neither of the bands hears the other , but up here I hear and see them both . 
I wonder where Jonathan is and if he is thinking of me ! I wish he were here . 
The case of Renfield grows more interesting the more I get to understand the man . 
He has certain qualities very largely developed , selfishness , secrecy , and purpose . 
I wish I could get at what is the object of the latter . 
He seems to have some settled scheme of his own , but what it is I do not know . 
His redeeming quality is a love of animals , though , indeed , he has such curious turns in it that I sometimes imagine he is only abnormally cruel . 
His pets are of odd sorts . 
Just now his hobby is catching flies . 
He has at present such a quantity that I have had myself to expostulate . 
To my astonishment , he did not break out into a fury , as I expected , but took the matter in simple seriousness . 
He thought for a moment , and then said , May I have three days ? I shall clear them away . 
Of course , I said that would do . 
He has turned his mind now to spiders , and has got several very big fellows in a box . 
His spiders are now becoming as great a nuisance as his flies , and today I told him that he must get rid of them . 
He looked very sad at this , so I said that he must some of them , at all events . 
He cheerfully acquiesced in this , and I gave him the same time as before for reduction . 
I scolded him for it , but he argued quietly that it was very good and very wholesome , that it was life , strong life , and gave life to him . 
This gave me an idea , or the rudiment of one . 
I must watch how he gets rid of his spiders . 
He has evidently some deep problem in his mind , for he keeps a little notebook in which he is always jotting down something . 
There is a method in his madness , and the rudimentary idea in my mind is growing . 
It will be a whole idea soon , and then , oh , unconscious cerebration , you will have to give the wall to your conscious brother . 
I kept away from my friend for a few days , so that I might notice if there were any change . 
Things remain as they were except that he has parted with some of his pets and got a new one . 
He has managed to get a sparrow , and has already partially tamed it . 
His means of taming is simple , for already the spiders have diminshed . 
Those that do remain , however , are well fed , for he still brings in the flies by tempting them with his food . 
My friend has now a whole colony of sparrows , and his flies and spiders are almost obliterated . 
When I came in he ran to me and said he wanted to ask me a great favour , a very , very great favour . 
And as he spoke , he fawned on me like a dog . 
So I said I would see about it , and asked him if he would not rather have a cat than a kitten . 
His eagerness betrayed him as he answered , Oh , yes , I would like a cat ! I only asked for a kitten lest you should refuse me a cat . 
His face fell , and I could see a warning of danger in it , for there was a sudden fierce , sidelong look which meant killing . 
The man is an undeveloped homicidal maniac . 
I shall test him with his present craving and see how it will work out , then I shall know more . 
I have visited him again and found him sitting in a corner brooding . 
When I came in he threw himself on his knees before me and implored me to let him have a cat , that his salvation depended upon it . 
I shall see him in the morning early . 
Visited Renfield very early , before attendant went his rounds . 
Found him up and humming a tune . 
I looked around for his birds , and not seeing them , asked him where they were . 
He replied , without turning round , that they had all flown away . 
There were a few feathers about the room and on his pillow a drop of blood . 
I said nothing , but went and told the keeper to report to me if there were anything odd about him during the day . 
The attendant has just been to see me to say that Renfield has been very sick and has disgorged a whole lot of feathers . 
My belief is , doctor , he said , that he has eaten his birds , and that he just took and ate them raw ! pm . 
I gave Renfield a strong opiate tonight , enough to make even him sleep , and took away his pocketbook to look at it . 
The thought that has been buzzing about my brain lately is complete , and the theory proved . 
My homicidal maniac is of a peculiar kind . 
I shall have to invent a new classification for him , and call him a zoophagous maniac . 
What he desires is to absorb as many lives as he can , and he has laid himself out to achieve it in a cumulative way . 
He gave many flies to one spider and many spiders to one bird , and then wanted a cat to eat the many birds . 
What would have been his later steps ? It would almost be worth while to complete the experiment . 
It might be done if there were only a sufficient cause . 
If only there were a sufficient cause ! I must not think too much of this , or I may be tempted . 
A good cause might turn the scale with me , for may not I too be of an exceptional brain , congenitally ? How well the man reasoned . 
Lunatics always do within their own scope . 
I wonder at how many lives he values a man , or if at only one . 
He has closed the account most accurately , and today begun a new record . 
So it shall be until the Great Recorder sums me up and closes my ledger account with a balance to profit or loss . 
I am anxious , and it soothes me to express myself here . 
It is like whispering to one's self and listening at the same time . 
And there is also something about the shorthand symbols that makes it different from writing . 
I am unhappy about Lucy and about Jonathan . 
I had not heard from Jonathan for some time , and was very concerned , but yesterday dear Mr. Hawkins , who is always so kind , sent me a letter from him . 
I had written asking him if he had heard , and he said the enclosed had just been received . 
It is only a line dated from Castle Dracula , and says that he is just starting for home . 
That is not like Jonathan . 
I do not understand it , and it makes me uneasy . 
Then , too , Lucy , although she is so well , has lately taken to her old habit of walking in her sleep . 
Her mother has spoken to me about it , and we have decided that I am to lock the door of our room every night . 
Lucy is to be married in the autumn , and she is already planning out her dresses and how her house is to be arranged . 
Mr. Holmwood , he is the Hon . 
She wants to take him up in the seat on the churchyard cliff and show him the beauty of Whitby . 
I daresay it is the waiting which disturbs her . 
She will be all right when he arrives . 
I am getting quite uneasy about him , though why I should I do not know , but I do wish that he would write , if it were only a single line . 
Lucy walks more than ever , and each night I am awakened by her moving about the room . 
Fortunately , the weather is so hot that she cannot get cold . 
But still , the anxiety and the perpetually being awakened is beginning to tell on me , and I am getting nervous and wakeful myself . 
Thank God , Lucy's health keeps up . 
Mr. Holmwood has been suddenly called to Ring to see his father , who has been taken seriously ill . 
Lucy frets at the postponement of seeing him , but it does not touch her looks . 
She is a trifle stouter , and her cheeks are a lovely rose pink . 
She has lost the anemic look which she had . 
I pray it will all last . 
Another week gone by , and no news from Jonathan , not even to Mr. Hawkins , from whom I have heard . 
Oh , I do hope he is not ill . 
He surely would have written . 
I look at that last letter of his , but somehow it does not satisfy me . 
It does not read like him , and yet it is his writing . 
There is no mistake of that . 
She tries the door , and finding it locked , goes about the room searching for the key . 
Another three days , and no news . 
This suspense is getting dreadful . 
If I only knew where to write to or where to go to , I should feel easier . 
But no one has heard a word of Jonathan since that last letter . 
I must only pray to God for patience . 
Lucy is more excitable than ever , but is otherwise well . 
Last night was very threatening , and the fishermen say that we are in for a storm . 
I must try to watch it and learn the weather signs . 
Today is a gray day , and the sun as I write is hidden in thick clouds , high over Kettleness . 
The sea is tumbling in over the shallows and the sandy flats with a roar , muffled in the sea mists drifting inland . 
The horizon is lost in a gray mist . 
All vastness , the clouds are piled up like giant rocks , and there is a brool' over the sea that sounds like some passage of doom . 
Dark figures are on the beach here and there , sometimes half shrouded in the mist , and seem men like trees walking' . 
The fishing boats are racing for home , and rise and dip in the ground swell as they sweep into the harbour , bending to the scuppers . 
Here comes old Mr. Swales . 
He is making straight for me , and I can see , by the way he lifts his hat , that he wants to talk . 
I have been quite touched by the change in the poor old man . 
When he sat down beside me , he said in a very gentle way , I want to say something to you , miss . 
I could see he was not at ease , so I took his poor old wrinkled hand in mine and asked him to speak fully . 
But , Lord love ye , miss , I ain't afraid of dyin' , not a bit , only I don't want to die if I can help it . 
My time must be nigh at hand now , for I be aud , and a hundred years is too much for any man to expect . 
And I'm so nigh it that the Aud Man is already whettin' his scythe . 
Ye see , I can't get out o' the habit of caffin' about it all at once . 
The chafts will wag as they be used to . 
Some day soon the Angel of Death will sound his trumpet for me . 
But don't ye dooal an' greet , my deary ! for he saw that I was crying if he should come this very night I'd not refuse to answer his call . 
For life be , after all , only a waitin' for somethin' else than what we're doin' , and death be all that we can rightly depend on . 
But I'm content , for it's comin' to me , my deary , and comin' quick . 
It may be comin' while we be lookin' and wonderin' . 
Maybe it's in that wind out over the sea that's bringin' with it loss and wreck , and sore distress , and sad hearts . 
Look ! Look ! he cried suddenly . 
There's something in that wind and in the hoast beyont that sounds , and looks , and tastes , and smells like death . 
Lord , make me answer cheerful , when my call comes ! He held up his arms devoutly , and raised his hat . 
His mouth moved as though he were praying . 
After a few minutes' silence , he got up , shook hands with me , and blessed me , and said goodbye , and hobbled off . 
It all touched me , and upset me very much . 
I was glad when the coastguard came along , with his spyglass under his arm . 
He stopped to talk with me , as he always does , but all the time kept looking at a strange ship . 
I can't make her out , he said . 
She's a Russian , by the look of her . 
But she's knocking about in the queerest way . 
She doesn't know her mind a bit . 
She seems to see the storm coming , but can't decide whether to run up north in the open , or to put in here . 
Look there again ! She is steered mighty strangely , for she doesn't mind the hand on the wheel , changes about with every puff of wind . 
We'll hear more of her before this time tomorrow . 
One of the greatest and suddenest storms on record has just been experienced here , with results both strange and unique . 
The weather had been somewhat sultry , but not to any degree uncommon in the month of August . 
The steamers Emma and Scarborough made trips up and down the coast , and there was an unusual amount of tripping' both to and from Whitby . 
The wind was then blowing from the south west in the mild degree which in barometrical language is ranked No. , light breeze . 
The only sail noticeable was a foreign schooner with all sails set , which was seemingly going westwards . 
Before the night shut down she was seen with sails idly flapping as she gently rolled on the undulating swell of the sea . 
As idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean . 
A little after midnight came a strange sound from over the sea , and high overhead the air began to carry a strange , faint , hollow booming . 
Then without warning the tempest broke . 
With a rapidity which , at the time , seemed incredible , and even afterwards is impossible to realize , the whole aspect of nature at once became convulsed . 
The waves rose in growing fury , each over topping its fellow , till in a very few minutes the lately glassy sea was like a roaring and devouring monster . 
White crested waves beat madly on the level sands and rushed up the shelving cliffs . 
Others broke over the piers , and with their spume swept the lanthorns of the lighthouses which rise from the end of either pier of Whitby Harbour . 
The wind roared like thunder , and blew with such force that it was with difficulty that even strong men kept their feet , or clung with grim clasp to the iron stanchions . 
It was found necessary to clear the entire pier from the mass of onlookers , or else the fatalities of the night would have increased manifold . 
To add to the difficulties and dangers of the time , masses of sea fog came drifting inland . 
Some of the scenes thus revealed were of immeasurable grandeur and of absorbing interest . 
The sea , running mountains high , threw skywards with each wave mighty masses of white foam , which the tempest seemed to snatch at and whirl away into space . 
Here and there a fishing boat , with a rag of sail , running madly for shelter before the blast , now and again the white wings of a storm tossed seabird . 
On the summit of the East Cliff the new searchlight was ready for experiment , but had not yet been tried . 
The officers in charge of it got it into working order , and in the pauses of onrushing mist swept with it the surface of the sea . 
Before long the searchlight discovered some distance away a schooner with all sails set , apparently the same vessel which had been noticed earlier in the evening . 
The wind had by this time backed to the east , and there was a shudder amongst the watchers on the cliff as they realized the terrible danger in which she now was . 
The rays of the searchlight were kept fixed on the harbour mouth across the East Pier , where the shock was expected , and men waited breathless . 
The wind suddenly shifted to the northeast , and the remnant of the sea fog melted in the blast . 
No other form could be seen on the deck at all . 
There was of course a considerable concussion as the vessel drove up on the sand heap . 
Every spar , rope , and stay was strained , and some of the top hammer' came crashing down . 
Thus the coastguard on duty on the eastern side of the harbour , who at once ran down to the little pier , was the first to climb aboard . 
The men working the searchlight , after scouring the entrance of the harbour without seeing anything , then turned the light on the derelict and kept it there . 
The coastguard ran aft , and when he came beside the wheel , bent over to examine it , and recoiled at once as though under some sudden emotion . 
This seemed to pique general curiosity , and quite a number of people began to run . 
When I arrived , however , I found already assembled on the pier a crowd , whom the coastguard and police refused to allow to come on board . 
It was no wonder that the coastguard was surprised , or even awed , for not often can such a sight have been seen . 
The man was simply fastened by his hands , tied one over the other , to a spoke of the wheel . 
In his pocket was a bottle , carefully corked , empty save for a little roll of paper , which proved to be the addendum to the log . 
The coastguard said the man must have tied up his own hands , fastening the knots with his teeth . 
Already the sudden storm is passing , and its fierceness is abating . 
Crowds are scattering backward , and the sky is beginning to redden over the Yorkshire wolds . 
I shall send , in time for your next issue , further details of the derelict ship which found her way so miraculously into harbour in the storm . 
The sequel to the strange arrival of the derelict in the storm last night is almost more startling than the thing itself . 
It turns out that the schooner is Russian from Varna , and is called the Demeter . 
She is almost entirely in ballast of silver sand , with only a small amount of cargo , a number of great wooden boxes filled with mould . 
The Russian consul , too , acting for the charter party , took formal possession of the ship , and paid all harbour dues , etc . 
Nothing is talked about here today except the strange coincidence . 
The officials of the Board of Trade have been most exacting in seeing that every compliance has been made with existing regulations . 
As the matter is to be a nine days wonder' , they are evidently determined that there shall be no cause of other complaint . 
To the general disappointment , however , it was not to be found . 
It seems to have disappeared entirely from the town . 
It may be that it was frightened and made its way on to the moors , where it is still hiding in terror . 
There are some who look with dread on such a possibility , lest later on it should in itself become a danger , for it is evidently a fierce brute . 
Early this morning a large dog , a half bred mastiff belonging to a coal merchant close to Tate Hill Pier , was found dead in the roadway opposite its master's yard . 
It had been fighting , and manifestly had had a savage opponent , for its throat was torn away , and its belly was slit open as if with a savage claw . 
The greatest interest , however , is with regard to the paper found in the bottle , which was today produced at the inquest . 
And a more strange narrative than the two between them unfold it has not been my lot to come across . 
As there is no motive for concealment , I am permitted to use them , and accordingly send you a transcript , simply omitting technical details of seamanship and supercargo . 
It almost seems as though the captain had been seized with some kind of mania before he had got well into blue water , and that this had developed persistently throughout the voyage . 
LOG OF THE DEMETER Varna to Whitby Written July , things so strange happening , that I shall keep accurate note henceforth till we land . 
On July we finished taking in cargo , silver sand and boxes of earth . 
two mates , cook , and myself , . 
On July at dawn entered Bosphorus . 
Boarded by Turkish Customs officers . 
More Customs officers and flagboat of guarding squadron . 
Work of officers thorough , but quick . 
At dark passed into Archipelago . 
On July passed Cape Matapan . 
Seemed scared , but would not speak out . 
On July was somewhat anxious about crew . 
Men all steady fellows , who sailed with me before . 
Mate could not make out what was wrong . 
They only told him there was SOMETHING , and crossed themselves . 
Mate lost temper with one of them that day and struck him . 
Expected fierce quarrel , but all was quiet . 
On July mate reported in the morning that one of the crew , Petrofsky , was missing . 
Could not account for it . 
Took larboard watch eight bells last night , was relieved by Amramoff , but did not go to bunk . 
Men more downcast than ever . 
All said they expected something of the kind , but would not say more than there was SOMETHING aboard . 
Mate getting very impatient with them . 
He followed cautiously , but when he got to bows found no one , and the hatchways were all closed . 
He was in a panic of superstitious fear , and I am afraid the panic may spread . 
To allay it , I shall today search the entire ship carefully from stem to stern . 
I let him take the helm , while the rest began a thorough search , all keeping abreast , with lanterns . 
We left no corner unsearched . 
As there were only the big wooden boxes , there were no odd corners where a man could hide . 
Men much relieved when search over , and went back to work cheerfully . 
First mate scowled , but said nothing . 
Rough weather last three days , and all hands busy with sails , no time to be frightened . 
Men seem to have forgotten their dread . 
Mate cheerful again , and all on good terms . 
Praised men for work in bad weather . 
Passed Gibraltar and out through Straits . 
There seems some doom over this ship . 
Already a hand short , and entering the Bay of Biscay with wild weather ahead , and yet last night another man lost , disappeared . 
Like the first , he came off his watch and was not seen again . 
Men all in a panic of fear , sent a round robin , asking to have double watch , as they fear to be alone . 
Fear there will be some trouble , as either he or the men will do some violence . 
Four days in hell , knocking about in a sort of malestrom , and the wind a tempest . 
No sleep for any one . 
Hardly know how to set a watch , since no one fit to go on . 
Second mate volunteered to steer and watch , and let men snatch a few hours sleep . 
Wind abating , seas still terrific , but feel them less , as ship is steadier . 
Had single watch tonight , as crew too tired to double . 
When morning watch came on deck could find no one except steersman . 
Raised outcry , and all came on deck . 
Thorough search , but no one found . 
Are now without second mate , and crew in a panic . 
Mate and I agreed to go armed henceforth and wait for any sign of cause . 
Rejoiced we are nearing England . 
Weather fine , all sails set . 
Retired worn out , slept soundly , awakened by mate telling me that both man of watch and steersman missing . 
Only self and mate and two hands left to work ship . 
Two days of fog , and not a sail sighted . 
Had hoped when in the English Channel to be able to signal for help or get in somewhere . 
Not having power to work sails , have to run before wind . 
Dare not lower , as could not raise them again . 
We seem to be drifting to some terrible doom . 
Mate now more demoralised than either of men . 
His stronger nature seems to have worked inwardly against himself . 
Men are beyond fear , working stolidly and patiently , with minds made up to worst . 
They are Russian , he Roumanian . 
Woke up from few minutes sleep by hearing a cry , seemingly outside my port . 
Could see nothing in fog . 
Rushed on deck , and ran against mate . 
Tells me he heard cry and ran , but no sign of man on watch . 
At midnight I went to relieve the man at the wheel and when I got to it found no one there . 
The wind was steady , and as we ran before it there was no yawing . 
I dared not leave it , so shouted for the mate . 
After a few seconds , he rushed up on deck in his flannels . 
He looked wild eyed and haggard , and I greatly fear his reason has given way . 
He came close to me and whispered hoarsely , with his mouth to my ear , as though fearing the very air might hear . 
On the watch last night I saw It , like a man , tall and thin , and ghastly pale . 
It was in the bows , and looking out . 
I crept behind It , and gave it my knife , but the knife went through It , empty as the air . 
And as he spoke he took the knife and drove it savagely into space . 
Then he went on , But It is here , and I'll find It . 
It is in the hold , perhaps in one of those boxes . 
I'll unscrew them one by one and see . 
And with a warning look and his finger on his lip , he went below . 
There was springing up a choppy wind , and I could not leave the helm . 
I saw him come out on deck again with a tool chest and lantern , and go down the forward hatchway . 
He is mad , stark , raving mad , and it's no use my trying to stop him . 
He can't hurt those big boxes , they are invoiced as clay , and to pull them about is as harmless a thing as he can do . 
So here I stay and mind the helm , and write these notes . 
I can only trust in God and wait till the fog clears . 
Then , if I can't steer to any harbour with the wind that is , I shall cut down sails , and lie by , and signal for help . 
It is nearly all over now . 
Save me ! Save me ! he cried , and then looked round on the blanket of fog . 
His horror turned to despair , and in a steady voice he said , You had better come too , captain , before it is too late . 
He is there ! I know the secret now . 
I suppose I know the secret too , now . 
It was this madman who had got rid of the men one by one , and now he has followed them himself . 
God help me ! How am I to account for all these horrors when I get to port ? When I get to port ! Will that ever be ? August . 
Still fog , which the sunrise cannot pierce , I know there is sunrise because I am a sailor , why else I know not . 
It was better to die like a man . 
To die like a sailor in blue water , no man can object . 
But I am captain , and I must not leave my ship . 
And then , come good wind or foul , I shall save my soul , and my honour as a captain . 
I am growing weaker , and the night is coming on . 
If He can look me in the face again , I may not have time to act . 
If we are wrecked , mayhap this bottle may be found , and those who find it may understand . 
well , then all men shall know that I have been true to my trust . 
God and the Blessed Virgin and the Saints help a poor ignorant soul trying to do his duty . 
Of course the verdict was an open one . 
There is no evidence to adduce , and whether or not the man himself committed the murders there is now none to say . 
The folk here hold almost universally that the captain is simply a hero , and he is to be given a public funeral . 
The owners of more than a hundred boats have already given in their names as wishing to follow him to the grave . 
Tomorrow will see the funeral , and so will end this one more mystery of the sea' . 
Lucy was very restless all night , and I too , could not sleep . 
The storm was fearful , and as it boomed loudly among the chimney pots , it made me shudder . 
When a sharp puff came it seemed to be like a distant gun . 
Strangely enough , Lucy did not wake , but she got up twice and dressed herself . 
Fortunately , each time I awoke in time and managed to undress her without waking her , and got her back to bed . 
Early in the morning we both got up and went down to the harbour to see if anything had happened in the night . 
Somehow I felt glad that Jonathan was not on the sea last night , but on land . 
But , oh , is he on land or sea ? Where is he , and how ? I am getting fearfully anxious about him . 
If I only knew what to do , and could do anything ! August . 
The funeral of the poor sea captain today was most touching . 
Every boat in the harbour seemed to be there , and the coffin was carried by captains all the way from Tate Hill Pier up to the churchyard . 
Lucy came with me , and we went early to our old seat , whilst the cortege of boats went up the river to the Viaduct and came down again . 
We had a lovely view , and saw the procession nearly all the way . 
The poor fellow was laid to rest near our seat so that we stood on it , when the time came and saw everything . 
Poor Lucy seemed much upset . 
She was restless and uneasy all the time , and I cannot but think that her dreaming at night is telling on her . 
She is quite odd in one thing . 
She will not admit to me that there is any cause for restlessness , or if there be , she does not understand it herself . 
There is an additional cause in that poor Mr. Swales was found dead this morning on our seat , his neck being broken . 
Poor dear old man ! Lucy is so sweet and sensitive that she feels influences more acutely than other people do . 
Just now she was quite upset by a little thing which I did not much heed , though I am myself very fond of animals . 
One of the men who came up here often to look for the boats was followed by his dog . 
The dog is always with him . 
They are both quiet persons , and I never saw the man angry , nor heard the dog bark . 
During the service the dog would not come to its master , who was on the seat with us , but kept a few yards off , barking and howling . 
Its master spoke to it gently , and then harshly , and then angrily . 
But it would neither come nor cease to make a noise . 
It was in a fury , with its eyes savage , and all its hair bristling out like a cat's tail when puss is on the war path . 
The moment it touched the stone the poor thing began to tremble . 
Lucy was full of pity , too , but she did not attempt to touch the dog , but looked at it in an agonised sort of way . 
I greatly fear that she is of too super sensitive a nature to go through the world without trouble . 
She will be dreaming of this tonight , I am sure . 
She ought not to have much inclination for sleep walking then . 
We had a lovely walk . 
I believe we forgot everything , except of course , personal fear , and it seemed to wipe the slate clean and give us a fresh start . 
We had a capital severe tea' at Robin Hood's Bay in a sweet little old fashioned inn , with a bow window right over the seaweed covered rocks of the strand . 
I believe we should have shocked the New Woman' with our appetites . 
Lucy was really tired , and we intended to creep off to bed as soon as we could . 
The young curate came in , however , and Mrs. Westenra asked him to stay for supper . 
Lucy and I had both a fight for it with the dusty miller . 
I know it was a hard fight on my part , and I am quite heroic . 
Lucy is asleep and breathing softly . 
She has more color in her cheeks than usual , and looks , oh so sweet . 
If Mr. Holmwood fell in love with her seeing her only in the drawing room , I wonder what he would say if he saw her now . 
Some of the New Women' writers will some day start an idea that men and women should be allowed to see each other asleep before proposing or accepting . 
But I suppose the New Woman' won't condescend in future to accept . 
She will do the proposing herself . 
And a nice job she will make of it too ! There's some consolation in that . 
I am so happy tonight , because dear Lucy seems better . 
I really believe she has turned the corner , and that we are over her troubles with dreaming . 
I should be quite happy if I only knew if Jonathan . 
God bless and keep him . 
No sleep now , so I may as well write . 
I am too agitated to sleep . 
We have had such an adventure , such an agonizing experience . 
I fell asleep as soon as I had closed my diary . 
Suddenly I became broad awake , and sat up , with a horrible sense of fear upon me , and of some feeling of emptiness around me . 
The room was dark , so I could not see Lucy's bed . 
I stole across and felt for her . 
I lit a match and found that she was not in the room . 
The door was shut , but not locked , as I had left it . 
I feared to wake her mother , who has been more than usually ill lately , so threw on some clothes and got ready to look for her . 
As I was leaving the room it struck me that the clothes she wore might give me some clue to her dreaming intention . 
Dressing gown would mean house , dress outside . 
Dressing gown and dress were both in their places . 
Thank God , I said to myself , she cannot be far , as she is only in her nightdress . 
I ran downstairs and looked in the sitting room . 
Not there ! Then I looked in all the other rooms of the house , with an ever growing fear chilling my heart . 
Finally , I came to the hall door and found it open . 
It was not wide open , but the catch of the lock had not caught . 
The people of the house are careful to lock the door every night , so I feared that Lucy must have gone out as she was . 
There was no time to think of what might happen . 
A vague over mastering fear obscured all details . 
I took a big , heavy shawl and ran out . 
The clock was striking one as I was in the Crescent , and there was not a soul in sight . 
I ran along the North Terrace , but could see no sign of the white figure which I expected . 
There was a bright full moon , with heavy black , driving clouds , which threw the whole scene into a fleeting diorama of light and shade as they sailed across . 
For a moment or two I could see nothing , as the shadow of a cloud obscured St . 
Mary's Church and all around it . 
Whatever my expectation was , it was not disappointed , for there , on our favorite seat , the silver light of the moon struck a half reclining figure , snowy white . 
What it was , whether man or beast , I could not tell . 
The town seemed as dead , for not a soul did I see . 
I rejoiced that it was so , for I wanted no witness of poor Lucy's condition . 
The time and distance seemed endless , and my knees trembled and my breath came laboured as I toiled up the endless steps to the abbey . 
I must have gone fast , and yet it seemed to me as if my feet were weighted with lead , and as though every joint in my body were rusty . 
When I got almost to the top I could see the seat and the white figure , for I was now close enough to distinguish it even through the spells of shadow . 
There was undoubtedly something , long and black , bending over the half reclining white figure . 
I called in fright , Lucy ! Lucy ! and something raised a head , and from where I was I could see a white face and red , gleaming eyes . 
Lucy did not answer , and I ran on to the entrance of the churchyard . 
As I entered , the church was between me and the seat , and for a minute or so I lost sight of her . 
She was quite alone , and there was not a sign of any living thing about . 
When I bent over her I could see that she was still asleep . 
As I came close , she put up her hand in her sleep and pulled the collar of her nightdress close around her , as though she felt the cold . 
When I had her carefully wrapped up I put my shoes on her feet , and then began very gently to wake her . 
At first she did not respond , but gradually she became more and more uneasy in her sleep , moaning and sighing occasionally . 
She did not seem surprised to see me , as , of course , she did not realize all at once where she was . 
She trembled a little , and clung to me . 
When I told her to come at once with me home , she rose without a word , with the obedience of a child . 
As we passed along , the gravel hurt my feet , and Lucy noticed me wince . 
She stopped and wanted to insist upon my taking my shoes , but I would not . 
Fortune favoured us , and we got home without meeting a soul . 
Once we saw a man , who seemed not quite sober , passing along a street in front of us . 
But we hid in a door till he had disappeared up an opening such as there are here , steep little closes , or wynds' , as they call them in Scotland . 
My heart beat so loud all the time sometimes I thought I should faint . 
I was filled with anxiety about Lucy , not only for her health , lest she should suffer from the exposure , but for her reputation in case the story should get wind . 
When we got in , and had washed our feet , and had said a prayer of thankfulness together , I tucked her into bed . 
Before falling asleep she asked , even implored , me not to say a word to any one , even her mother , about her sleep walking adventure . 
I hope I did right . 
I have locked the door , and the key is tied to my wrist , so perhaps I shall not be again disturbed . 
The reflex of the dawn is high and far over the sea . 
Lucy slept till I woke her and seemed not to have even changed her side . 
I was sorry to notice that my clumsiness with the safety pin hurt her . 
Indeed , it might have been serious , for the skin of her throat was pierced . 
When I apologised and was concerned about it , she laughed and petted me , and said she did not even feel it . 
Fortunately it cannot leave a scar , as it is so tiny . 
We passed a happy day . 
The air was clear , and the sun bright , and there was a cool breeze . 
We took our lunch to Mulgrave Woods , Mrs. Westenra driving by the road and Lucy and I walking by the cliff path and joining her at the gate . 
I felt a little sad myself , for I could not but feel how absolutely happy it would have been had Jonathan been with me . 
But there ! I must only be patient . 
In the evening we strolled in the Casino Terrace , and heard some good music by Spohr and Mackenzie , and went to bed early . 
Lucy seems more restful than she has been for some time , and fell asleep at once . 
I shall lock the door and secure the key the same as before , though I do not expect any trouble tonight . 
My expectations were wrong , for twice during the night I was wakened by Lucy trying to get out . 
She seemed , even in her sleep , to be a little impatient at finding the door shut , and went back to bed under a sort of protest . 
I woke with the dawn , and heard the birds chirping outside of the window . 
Lucy woke , too , and I was glad to see , was even better than on the previous morning . 
All her old gaiety of manner seemed to have come back , and she came and snuggled in beside me and told me all about Arthur . 
I told her how anxious I was about Jonathan , and then she tried to comfort me . 
Well , she succeeded somewhat , for , though sympathy can't alter facts , it can make them more bearable . 
Another quiet day , and to bed with the key on my wrist as before . 
Again I awoke in the night , and found Lucy sitting up in bed , still asleep , pointing to the window . 
I got up quietly , and pulling aside the blind , looked out . 
It was brilliant moonlight , and the soft effect of the light over the sea and sky , merged together in one great silent mystery , was beautiful beyond words . 
Between me and the moonlight flitted a great bat , coming and going in great whirling circles . 
Once or twice it came quite close , but was , I suppose , frightened at seeing me , and flitted away across the harbour towards the abbey . 
When I came back from the window Lucy had lain down again , and was sleeping peacefully . 
She did not stir again all night . 
On the East Cliff , reading and writing all day . 
This afternoon she made a funny remark . 
We were coming home for dinner , and had come to the top of the steps up from the West Pier and stopped to look at the view , as we generally do . 
The setting sun , low down in the sky , was just dropping behind Kettleness . 
The red light was thrown over on the East Cliff and the old abbey , and seemed to bathe everything in a beautiful rosy glow . 
We were silent for a while , and suddenly Lucy murmured as if to herself . 
His red eyes again ! They are just the same . 
It was such an odd expression , coming apropos of nothing , that it quite startled me . 
She appeared to be looking over at our own seat , whereon was a dark figure seated alone . 
I was quite a little startled myself , for it seemed for an instant as if the stranger had great eyes like burning flames , but a second look dispelled the illusion . 
The red sunlight was shining on the windows of St . 
Mary's Church behind our seat , and as the sun dipped there was just sufficient change in the refraction and reflection to make it appear as if the light moved . 
I called Lucy's attention to the peculiar effect , and she became herself with a start , but she looked sad all the same . 
It may have been that she was thinking of that terrible night up there . 
We never refer to it , so I said nothing , and we went home to dinner . 
Lucy had a headache and went early to bed . 
I saw her asleep , and went out for a little stroll myself . 
I walked along the cliffs to the westward , and was full of sweet sadness , for I was thinking of Jonathan . 
I opened my handkerchief and waved it . 
She did not notice or make any movement whatever . 
Just then , the moonlight crept round an angle of the building , and the light fell on the window . 
There distinctly was Lucy with her head lying up against the side of the window sill and her eyes shut . 
She was fast asleep , and by her , seated on the window sill , was something that looked like a good sized bird . 
She was holding her hand to her throat , as though to protect if from the cold . 
I did not wake her , but tucked her up warmly . 
I have taken care that the door is locked and the window securely fastened . 
She looks so sweet as she sleeps , but she is paler than is her wont , and there is a drawn , haggard look under her eyes which I do not like . 
I fear she is fretting about something . 
I wish I could find out what it is . 
Lucy was languid and tired , and slept on after we had been called . 
We had a happy surprise at breakfast . 
Arthur's father is better , and wants the marriage to come off soon . 
Lucy is full of quiet joy , and her mother is glad and sorry at once . 
Later on in the day she told me the cause . 
She is grieved to lose Lucy as her very own , but she is rejoiced that she is soon to have some one to protect her . 
Poor dear , sweet lady ! She confided to me that she has got her death warrant . 
She has not told Lucy , and made me promise secrecy . 
Her doctor told her that within a few months , at most , she must die , for her heart is weakening . 
At any time , even now , a sudden shock would be almost sure to kill her . 
Ah , we were wise to keep from her the affair of the dreadful night of Lucy's sleep walking . 
No diary for two whole days . 
I have not had the heart to write . 
Some sort of shadowy pall seems to be coming over our happiness . 
No news from Jonathan , and Lucy seems to be growing weaker , whilst her mother's hours are numbering to a close . 
I do not understand Lucy's fading away as she is doing . 
At night I hear her gasping as if for air . 
I keep the key of our door always fastened to my wrist at night , but she gets up and walks about the room , and sits at the open window . 
Last night I found her leaning out when I woke up , and when I tried to wake her I could not . 
She was in a faint . 
When I managed to restore her , she was weak as water , and cried silently between long , painful struggles for breath . 
When I asked her how she came to be at the window she shook her head and turned away . 
I trust her feeling ill may not be from that unlucky prick of the safety pin . 
I looked at her throat just now as she lay asleep , and the tiny wounds seem not to have healed . 
They are still open , and , if anything , larger than before , and the edges of them are faintly white . 
They are like little white dots with red centres . 
Unless they heal within a day or two , I shall insist on the doctor seeing about them . 
LETTER , SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON SON , SOLICITORS WHITBY , TO MESSRS . 
August Dear Sirs , Herewith please receive invoice of goods sent by Great Northern Railway . 
Same are to be delivered at Carfax , near Purfleet , immediately on receipt at goods station King's Cross . 
The house is at present empty , but enclosed please find keys , all of which are labelled . 
You will please deposit the boxes , fifty in number , which form the consignment , in the partially ruined building forming part of the house and marked A' on rough diagrams enclosed . 
Your agent will easily recognize the locality , as it is the ancient chapel of the mansion . 
The goods leave by the train at tonight , and will be due at King's Cross at tomorrow afternoon . 
In order to obviate any delays possible through any routine requirements as to payment in your departments , we enclose cheque herewith for ten pounds , receipt of which please acknowledge . 
Should the charge be less than this amount , you can return balance , if greater , we shall at once send cheque for difference on hearing from you . 
Pray do not take us as exceeding the bounds of business courtesy in pressing you in all ways to use the utmost expedition . 
We are , dear Sirs , Faithfully yours , SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON SON LETTER , MESSRS . 
, LONDON , TO MESSRS . 
Dear Sirs , We beg to acknowledge pounds received and to return cheque of pound , s , d , amount of overplus , as shown in receipted account herewith . 
Goods are delivered in exact accordance with instructions , and keys left in parcel in main hall , as directed . 
We are , dear Sirs , Yours respectfully , Pro CARTER , PATERSON CO . 
I am happy today , and write sitting on the seat in the churchyard . 
Lucy is ever so much better . 
Last night she slept well all night , and did not disturb me once . 
The roses seem coming back already to her cheeks , though she is still sadly pale and wan looking . 
If she were in any way anemic I could understand it , but she is not . 
She is in gay spirits and full of life and cheerfulness . 
As she was in such a communicative humour , I asked her if she had dreamed at all that night . 
Then she went on in a half dreaming kind of way , as if trying to recall it to herself . 
I didn't quite dream , but it all seemed to be real . 
I only wanted to be here in this spot . 
I don't know why , for I was afraid of something , I don't know what . 
I remember , though I suppose I was asleep , passing through the streets and over the bridge . 
A fish leaped as I went by , and I leaned over to look at it , and I heard a lot of dogs howling . 
The whole town seemed as if it must be full of dogs all howling at once , as I went up the steps . 
My soul seemed to go out from my body and float about the air . 
I saw you do it before I felt you . 
Then she began to laugh . 
It seemed a little uncanny to me , and I listened to her breathlessly . 
When we got home the fresh breeze had braced her up , and her pale cheeks were really more rosy . 
Her mother rejoiced when she saw her , and we all spent a very happy evening together . 
Joy , joy , joy ! Although not all joy . 
At last , news of Jonathan . 
The dear fellow has been ill , that is why he did not write . 
I am not afraid to think it or to say it , now that I know . 
Mr. Hawkins sent me on the letter , and wrote himself , oh so kindly . 
I am to leave in the morning and go over to Jonathan , and to help to nurse him if necessary , and to bring him home . 
Mr. Hawkins says it would not be a bad thing if we were to be married out there . 
I have cried over the good Sister's letter till I can feel it wet against my bosom , where it lies . 
It is of Jonathan , and must be near my heart , for he is in my heart . 
My journey is all mapped out , and my luggage ready . 
I am only taking one change of dress . 
Lucy will bring my trunk to London and keep it till I send for it , for it may be that . 
I must write no more . 
I must keep it to say to Jonathan , my husband . 
The letter that he has seen and touched must comfort me till we meet . 
LETTER , SISTER AGATHA , HOSPITAL OF ST . 
MARY BUDA PESTH , TO MISS WILLHELMINA MURRAY August , Dear Madam . 
I write by desire of Mr. Jonathan Harker , who is himself not strong enough to write , though progressing well , thanks to God and St . 
He has been under our care for nearly six weeks , suffering from a violent brain fever . 
He will require some few weeks' rest in our sanatorium in the hills , but will then return . 
Believe me , Yours , with sympathy and all blessings . 
Sister Agatha P. S. My patient being asleep , I open this to let you know something more . 
He has told me all about you , and that you are shortly to be his wife . 
Be careful of him always that there may be nothing to excite him of this kind for a long time to come . 
The traces of such an illness as his do not lightly die away . 
We should have written long ago , but we knew nothing of his friends , and there was nothing on him , nothing that anyone could understand . 
He came in the train from Klausenburg , and the guard was told by the station master there that he rushed into the station shouting for a ticket for home . 
Seeing from his violent demeanor that he was English , they gave him a ticket for the furthest station on the way thither that the train reached . 
Be assured that he is well cared for . 
He has won all hearts by his sweetness and gentleness . 
He is truly getting on well , and I have no doubt will in a few weeks be all himself . 
But be careful of him for safety's sake . 
There are , I pray God and St . 
Mary , many , many , happy years for you both . 
Strange and sudden change in Renfield last night . 
About eight o'clock he began to get excited and sniff about as a dog does when setting . 
The attendant was struck by his manner , and knowing my interest in him , encouraged him to talk . 
He is usually respectful to the attendant and at times servile , but tonight , the man tells me , he was quite haughty . 
Would not condescend to talk with him at all . 
All he would say was , I don't want to talk to you . 
The master is at hand . 
The attendant thinks it is some sudden form of religious mania which has seized him . 
If so , we must look out for squalls , for a strong man with homicidal and religious mania at once might be dangerous . 
The combination is a dreadful one . 
At Nine o'clock I visited him myself . 
His attitude to me was the same as that to the attendant . 
In his sublime self feeling the difference between myself and the attendant seemed to him as nothing . 
It looks like religious mania , and he will soon think that he himself is God . 
These infinitesimal distinctions between man and man are too paltry for an Omnipotent Being . 
How these madmen give themselves away ! The real God taketh heed lest a sparrow fall . 
But the God created from human vanity sees no difference between an eagle and a sparrow . 
Oh , if men only knew ! For half an hour or more Renfield kept getting excited in greater and greater degree . 
I did not pretend to be watching him , but I kept strict observation all the same . 
He became quite quiet , and went and sat on the edge of his bed resignedly , and looked into space with lack luster eyes . 
At first he made no reply , but at length said testily , Bother them all ! I don't care a pin about them . 
To this he answered enigmatically , The Bride maidens rejoice the eyes that wait the coming of the bride . 
But when the bride draweth nigh , then the maidens shine not to the eyes that are filled . 
He would not explain himself , but remained obstinately seated on his bed all the time I remained with him . 
I am weary tonight and low in spirits . 
I cannot but think of Lucy , and how different things might have been . 
If I don't sleep at once , chloral , the modern Morpheus ! I must be careful not to let it grow into a habit . 
No , I shall take none tonight ! I have thought of Lucy , and I shall not dishonour her by mixing the two . 
If need by , tonight shall be sleepless . 
Glad I made the resolution , gladder that I kept to it . 
I threw on my clothes and ran down at once . 
My patient is too dangerous a person to be roaming about . 
Those ideas of his might work out dangerously with strangers . 
The attendant was waiting for me . 
He said he had seen him not ten minutes before , seemingly asleep in his bed , when he had looked through the observation trap in the door . 
His attention was called by the sound of the window being wrenched out . 
He ran back and saw his feet disappear through the window , and had at once sent up for me . 
He was only in his night gear , and cannot be far off . 
He is a bulky man , and couldn't get through the window . 
I am thin , so , with his aid , I got out , but feet foremost , and as we were only a few feet above ground landed unhurt . 
The attendant told me the patient had gone to the left , and had taken a straight line , so I ran as quickly as I could . 
As I got through the belt of trees I saw a white figure scale the high wall which separates our grounds from those of the deserted house . 
I ran back at once , told the watchman to get three or four men immediately and follow me into the grounds of Carfax , in case our friend might be dangerous . 
I got a ladder myself , and crossing the wall , dropped down on the other side . 
I could see Renfield's figure just disappearing behind the angle of the house , so I ran after him . 
On the far side of the house I found him pressed close against the old iron bound oak door of the chapel . 
I am here to do your bidding , Master . 
I am your slave , and you will reward me , for I shall be faithful . 
I have worshipped you long and afar off . 
He thinks of the loaves and fishes even when he believes his is in a real Presence . 
His manias make a startling combination . 
When we closed in on him he fought like a tiger . 
He is immensely strong , for he was more like a wild beast than a man . 
I never saw a lunatic in such a paroxysm of rage before , and I hope I shall not again . 
It is a mercy that we have found out his strength and his danger in good time . 
With strength and determination like his , he might have done wild work before he was caged . 
He is safe now , at any rate . 
Jack Sheppard himself couldn't get free from the strait waistcoat that keeps him restrained , and he's chained to the wall in the padded room . 
His cries are at times awful , but the silences that follow are more deadly still , for he means murder in every turn and movement . 
Just now he spoke coherent words for the first time . 
I shall be patient , Master . 
It is coming , coming , coming ! So I took the hint , and came too . 
I was too excited to sleep , but this diary has quieted me , and I feel I shall get some sleep tonight . 
CHAPTER LETTER , MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA Buda Pesth , August . 
My dearest Lucy , I know you will be anxious to hear all that has happened since we parted at the railway station at Whitby . 
Well , my dear , I got to Hull all right , and caught the boat to Hamburg , and then the train on here . 
I found my dear one , oh , so thin and pale and weak looking . 
All the resolution has gone out of his dear eyes , and that quiet dignity which I told you was in his face has vanished . 
He is only a wreck of himself , and he does not remember anything that has happened to him for a long time past . 
At least , he wants me to believe so , and I shall never ask . 
He has had some terrible shock , and I fear it might tax his poor brain if he were to try to recall it . 
That the ravings of the sick were the secrets of God , and that if a nurse through her vocation should hear them , she should respect her trust . 
That it was not about anything which he has done wrong himself , and you , as his wife to be , have no cause to be concerned . 
He has not forgotten you or what he owes to you . 
His fear was of great and terrible things , which no mortal can treat of . 
I do believe the dear soul thought I might be jealous lest my poor dear should have fallen in love with any other girl . 
I am now sitting by his bedside , where I can see his face while he sleeps . 
He is waking ! When he woke he asked me for his coat , as he wanted to get something from the pocket . 
I asked Sister Agatha , and she brought all his things . 
There should be no secret , no concealment . 
You know I had brain fever , and that is to be mad . 
The secret is here , and I do not want to know it . 
I want to take up my life here , with our marriage . 
For , my dear , we had decided to be married as soon as the formalities are complete . 
Are you willing , Wilhelmina , to share my ignorance ? Here is the book . 
He fell back exhausted , and I put the book under his pillow , and kissed him . 
have asked Sister Agatha to beg the Superior to let our wedding be this afternoon , and am waiting her reply . 
She has come and told me that the Chaplain of the English mission church has been sent for . 
We are to be married in an hour , or as soon after as Jonathan awakes . 
Lucy , the time has come and gone . 
I feel very solemn , but very , very happy . 
Jonathan woke a little after the hour , and all was ready , and he sat up in bed , propped up with pillows . 
He answered his I will' firmly and strong . 
My heart was so full that even those words seemed to choke me . 
The dear sisters were so kind . 
Please , God , I shall never , never forget them , nor the grave and sweet responsibilities I have taken upon me . 
I must tell you of my wedding present . 
And , my dear , when he kissed me , and drew me to him with his poor weak hands , it was like a solemn pledge between us . 
It was my privilege to be your friend and guide when you came from the schoolroom to prepare for the world of life . 
My dear , please Almighty God , your life may be all it promises , a long day of sunshine , with no harsh wind , no forgetting duty , no distrust . 
I must not wish you no pain , for that can never be , but I do hope you will be always as happy as I am now . 
I shall post this at once , and perhaps , write you very soon again . 
I must stop , for Jonathan is waking . 
I must attend my husband ! Your ever loving Mina Harker . 
LETTER , LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA HARKER . 
My dearest Mina , Oceans of love and millions of kisses , and may you soon be in your own home with your husband . 
I wish you were coming home soon enough to stay with us here . 
The strong air would soon restore Jonathan . 
It has quite restored me . 
I have an appetite like a cormorant , am full of life , and sleep well . 
You will be glad to know that I have quite given up walking in my sleep . 
I think I have not stirred out of my bed for a week , that is when I once got into it at night . 
Arthur says I am getting fat . 
By the way , I forgot to tell you that Arthur is here . 
We have such walks and drives , and rides , and rowing , and tennis , and fishing together , and I love him more than ever . 
He tells me that he loves me more , but I doubt that , for at first he told me that he couldn't love me more than he did then . 
There he is , calling to me . 
So no more just at present from your loving , Lucy . 
P. S. Mother sends her love . 
She seems better , poor dear . 
P. P. S. We are to be married on September . 
The case of Renfield grows even more interesting . 
He has now so far quieted that there are spells of cessation from his passion . 
For the first week after his attack he was perpetually violent . 
Then one night , just as the moon rose , he grew quiet , and kept murmuring to himself . 
The attendant came to tell me , so I ran down at once to have a look at him . 
He was still in the strait waistcoat and in the padded room , but the suffused look had gone from his face , and his eyes had something of their old pleading . 
I might almost say , cringing , softness . 
I was satisfied with his present condition , and directed him to be relieved . 
The attendants hesitated , but finally carried out my wishes without protest . 
Am I to take it that I have anything in common with him , so that we are , as it were , to stand together . 
Or has he to gain from me some good so stupendous that my well being is needful to Him ? I must find out later on . 
Tonight he will not speak . 
Even the offer of a kitten or even a full grown cat will not tempt him . 
He will only say , I don't take any stock in cats . 
I have more to think of now , and I can wait . 
After a while I left him . 
Three nights has the same thing happened , violent all day then quiet from moonrise to sunrise . 
I wish I could get some clue to the cause . 
It would almost seem as if there was some influence which came and went . 
Happy thought ! We shall tonight play sane wits against mad ones . 
He escaped before without our help . 
Tonight he shall escape with it . 
We shall give him a chance , and have the men ready to follow in case they are required . 
How well Disraeli knew life . 
Our bird when he found the cage open would not fly , so all our subtle arrangements were for nought . 
At any rate , we have proved one thing , that the spells of quietness last a reasonable time . 
We shall in future be able to ease his bonds for a few hours each day . 
I have given orders to the night attendant merely to shut him in the padded room , when once he is quiet , until the hour before sunrise . 
The poor soul's body will enjoy the relief even if his mind cannot appreciate it . 
Hark ! The unexpected again ! I am called . 
The patient has once more escaped . 
Renfield artfully waited until the attendant was entering the room to inspect . 
Then he dashed out past him and flew down the passage . 
I sent word for the attendants to follow . 
Again he went into the grounds of the deserted house , and we found him in the same place , pressed against the old chapel door . 
When he saw me he became furious , and had not the attendants seized him in time , he would have tried to kill me . 
As we sere holding him a strange thing happened . 
He suddenly redoubled his efforts , and then as suddenly grew calm . 
I looked round instinctively , but could see nothing . 
Bats usually wheel about , but this one seemed to go straight on , as if it knew where it was bound for or had some intention of its own . 
The patient grew calmer every instant , and presently said , You needn't tie me . 
I shall go quietly ! Without trouble , we came back to the house . 
I feel there is something ominous in his calm , and shall not forget this night . 
LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY Hillingham , August . 
I must imitate Mina , and keep writing things down . 
Then we can have long talks when we do meet . 
I wonder when it will be . 
I wish she were with me again , for I feel so unhappy . 
Last night I seemed to be dreaming again just as I was at Whitby . 
Perhaps it is the change of air , or getting home again . 
It is all dark and horrid to me , for I can remember nothing . 
But I am full of vague fear , and I feel so weak and worn out . 
When Arthur came to lunch he looked quite grieved when he saw me , and I hadn't the spirit to try to be cheerful . 
I wonder if I could sleep in mother's room tonight . 
I shall make an excuse to try . 
Mother did not seem to take to my proposal . 
She seems not too well herself , and doubtless she fears to worry me . 
I tried to keep awake , and succeeded for a while , but when the clock struck twelve it waked me from a doze , so I must have been falling asleep . 
There was a sort of scratching or flapping at the window , but I did not mind it , and as I remember no more , I suppose I must have fallen asleep . 
I wish I could remember them . 
This morning I am horribly weak . 
My face is ghastly pale , and my throat pains me . 
It must be something wrong with my lungs , for I don't seem to be getting air enough . 
I shall try to cheer up when Arthur comes , or else I know he will be miserable to see me so . 
LETTER , ARTHUR TO DR . 
SEWARD Albemarle Hotel , August My dear Jack , I want you to do me a favour . 
Lucy is ill , that is she has no special disease , but she looks awful , and is getting worse every day . 
Mrs. Westenra has confided to me that her doom is spoken , disease of the heart , though poor Lucy does not know it yet . 
I am sure that there is something preying on my dear girl's mind . 
I am almost distracted when I think of her . 
To look at her gives me a pang . 
I told her I should ask you to see her , and though she demurred at first , I know why , old fellow , she finally consented . 
I am filled with anxiety , and want to consult with you alone as soon as I can after you have seen her . 
Do not fail ! Arthur . 
TELEGRAM , ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO SEWARD September Am summoned to see my father , who is worse . 
Write me fully by tonight's post to Ring . 
At the same time , I am not by any means satisfied with her appearance . 
She is woefully different from what she was when I saw her last . 
Of course you must bear in mind that I did not have full opportunity of examination such as I should wish . 
Our very friendship makes a little difficulty which not even medical science or custom can bridge over . 
I had better tell you exactly what happened , leaving you to draw , in a measure , your own conclusions . 
I shall then say what I have done and propose doing . 
I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits . 
Her mother was present , and in a few seconds I made up my mind that she was trying all she knew to mislead her mother and prevent her from being anxious . 
I have no doubt she guesses , if she does not know , what need of caution there is . 
We lunched alone , and as we all exerted ourselves to be cheerful , we got , as some kind of reward for our labours , some real cheerfulness amongst us . 
Then Mrs. Westenra went to lie down , and Lucy was left with me . 
We went into her boudoir , and till we got there her gaiety remained , for the servants were coming and going . 
When I saw that her high spirits had failed , I at once took advantage of her reaction to make a diagnosis . 
She said to me very sweetly , I cannot tell you how I loathe talking about myself . 
I reminded her that a doctor's confidence was sacred , but that you were grievously anxious about her . 
She caught on to my meaning at once , and settled that matter in a word . 
Tell Arthur everything you choose . 
I do not care for myself , but for him ! So I am quite free . 
It was a slight matter in itself , but it gave me an evident chance , and I secured a few drops of the blood and have analysed them . 
The qualitative analysis give a quite normal condition , and shows , I should infer , in itself a vigorous state of health . 
She complains of difficulty breathing satisfactorily at times , and of heavy , lethargic sleep , with dreams that frighten her , but regarding which she can remember nothing . 
But she assures me that of late the habit has not returned . 
I am in doubt , and so have done the best thing I know of . 
I have written to my old friend and master , Professor Van Helsing , of Amsterdam , who knows as much about obscure diseases as any one in the world . 
This , my dear fellow , is in obedience to your wishes , for I am only too proud and happy to do anything I can for her . 
Van Helsing would , I know , do anything for me for a personal reason , so no matter on what ground he comes , we must accept his wishes . 
He is a seemingly arbitrary man , this is because he knows what he is talking about better than any one else . 
He is a philosopher and a metaphysician , and one of the most advanced scientists of his day , and he has , I believe , an absolutely open mind . 
I tell you these facts that you may know why I have such confidence in him . 
I have asked him to come at once . 
I shall see Miss Westenra tomorrow again . 
She is to meet me at the Stores , so that I may not alarm her mother by too early a repetition of my call . 
John Seward LETTER , ABRAHAM VAN HELSING , MD , DPh , D. LiT , ETC , ETC , TO DR . 
My good Friend , When I received your letter I am already coming to you . 
By good fortune I can leave just at once , without wrong to any of those who have trusted me . 
Were fortune other , then it were bad for those who have trusted , for I come to my friend when he call me to aid those he holds dear . 
But it is pleasure added to do for him , your friend , it is to you that I come . 
But if need be I shall come again in three days , and stay longer if it must . 
Till then goodbye , my friend John . 
ARTHUR HOLMWOOD September My dear Art , Van Helsing has come and gone . 
He came on with me to Hillingham , and found that , by Lucy's discretion , her mother was lunching out , so that we were alone with her . 
Van Helsing made a very careful examination of the patient . 
He is to report to me , and I shall advise you , for of course I was not present all the time . 
He is , I fear , much concerned , but says he must think . 
When I told him of our friendship and how you trust to me in the matter , he said , You must tell him all you think . 
Tell him him what I think , if you can guess it , if you will . 
Nay , I am not jesting . 
This is no jest , but life and death , perhaps more . 
I asked what he meant by that , for he was very serious . 
This was when we had come back to town , and he was having a cup of tea before starting on his return to Amsterdam . 
He would not give me any further clue . 
You must not be angry with me , Art , because his very reticence means that all his brains are working for her good . 
He will speak plainly enough when the time comes , be sure . 
So I told him I would simply write an account of our visit , just as if I were doing a descriptive special article for THE DAILY TELEGRAPH . 
He seemed not to notice , but remarked that the smuts of London were not quite so bad as they used to be when he was a student here . 
I am to get his report tomorrow if he can possibly make it . 
In any case I am to have a letter . 
Well , as to the visit , Lucy was more cheerful than on the day I first saw her , and certainly looked better . 
She had lost something of the ghastly look that so upset you , and her breathing was normal . 
, and tried to make him feel at ease , though I could see the poor girl was making a hard struggle for it . 
I believe Van Helsing saw it , too , for I saw the quick look under his bushy brows that I knew of old . 
Then he began to chat of all things except ourselves and diseases and with such an infinite geniality that I could see poor Lucy's pretense of animation merge into reality . 
That is much , my dear , even were there that which I do not see . 
They told me you were down in the spirit , and that you were of a ghastly pale . 
To them I say Pouf ! And he snapped his fingers at me and went on . 
But you and I shall show them how wrong they are . 
It is much to do , and , oh , but there are rewards in that we can bestow such happiness . 
So , my dear , we will send him away to smoke the cigarette in the garden , whiles you and I have little talk all to ourselves . 
I took the hint , and strolled about , and presently the professor came to the window and called me in . 
He looked grave , but said , I have made careful examination , but there is no functional cause . 
With you I agree that there has been much blood lost , it has been but is not . 
But the conditions of her are in no way anemic . 
I have asked her to send me her maid , that I may ask just one or two questions , that so I may not chance to miss nothing . 
I know well what she will say . 
And yet there is cause . 
There is always cause for everything . 
I must go back home and think . 
You must send me the telegram every day , and if there be cause I shall come again . 
The disease , for not to be well is a disease , interest me , and the sweet , young dear , she interest me too . 
She charm me , and for her , if not for you or disease , I come . 
As I tell you , he would not say a word more , even when we were alone . 
And so now , Art , you know all I know . 
I shall keep stern watch . 
I trust your poor father is rallying . 
It must be a terrible thing to you , my dear old fellow , to be placed in such a position between two people who are both so dear to you . 
I know your idea of duty to your father , and you are right to stick to it . 
But if need be , I shall send you word to come at once to Lucy , so do not be over anxious unless you hear from me . 
Zoophagous patient still keeps up our interest in him . 
He had only one outburst and that was yesterday at an unusual time . 
Just before the stroke of noon he began to grow restless . 
The attendant knew the symptoms , and at once summoned aid . 
Fortunately the men came at a run , and were just in time , for at the stroke of noon he became so violent that it took all their strength to hold him . 
In about five minutes , however , he began to get more quiet , and finally sank into a sort of melancholy , in which state he has remained up to now . 
The attendant tells me that his screams whilst in the paroxysm were really appalling . 
I found my hands full when I got in , attending to some of the other patients who were frightened by him . 
Indeed , I can quite understand the effect , for the sounds disturbed even me , though I was some distance away . 
I cannot quite understand it . 
Another change in my patient . 
At five o'clock I looked in on him , and found him seemingly as happy and contented as he used to be . 
He was catching flies and eating them , and was keeping note of his capture by making nailmarks on the edge of the door between the ridges of padding . 
I thought it well to humour him , so he is back in his room with the window open . 
He has the sugar of his tea spread out on the window sill , and is reaping quite a harvest of flies . 
He is not now eating them , but putting them into a box , as of old , and is already examining the corners of his room to find a spider . 
I tried to get him to talk about the past few days , for any clue to his thoughts would be of immense help to me , but he would not rise . 
For a moment or two he looked very sad , and said in a sort of far away voice , as though saying it rather to himself than to me . 
All over ! All over ! He has deserted me . 
And the flies ? I said . 
Yes ! The flies like it , too , and I like the flies , therefore I like it . 
And there are people who know so little as to think that madmen do not argue . 
I procured him a double supply , and left him as happy a man as , I suppose , any in the world . 
I wish I could fathom his mind . 
As his room is on this side of the house , I could hear it better than in the morning . 
I reached him just as the sun was going down , and from his window saw the red disc sink . 
As it sank he became less and less frenzied , and just as it dipped he slid from the hands that held him , an inert mass , on the floor . 
It is wonderful , however , what intellectual recuperative power lunatics have , for within a few minutes he stood up quite calmly and looked around him . 
I signalled to the attendants not to hold him , for I was anxious to see what he would do . 
He went straight over to the window and brushed out the crumbs of sugar . 
Then he took his fly box , and emptied it outside , and threw away the box . 
Then he shut the window , and crossing over , sat down on his bed . 
All this surprised me , so I asked him , Are you going to keep flies any more ? No , said he . 
I am sick of all that rubbish ! He certainly is a wonderfully interesting study . 
I wish I could get some glimpse of his mind or of the cause of his sudden passion . 
There may be a clue after all , if we can find why today his paroxysms came on at high noon and at sunset . 
Can it be that there is a malign influence of the sun at periods which affects certain natures , as at times the moon does others ? We shall see . 
SEWARD , LONDON , TO VAN HELSING , AMSTERDAM September . 
TELEGRAM , SEWARD , LONDON , TO VAN HELSING , AMSTERDAM September . 
Good appetite , sleeps naturally , good spirits , color coming back . 
TELEGRAM , SEWARD , LONDON , TO VAN HELSING , AMSTERDAM September . 
Terrible change for the worse . 
Do not lose an hour . 
I hold over telegram to Holmwood till have seen you . 
ARTHUR HOLMWOOD September My dear Art , My news today is not so good . 
Lucy this morning had gone back a bit . 
There is , however , one good thing which has arisen from it . 
Mrs. Westenra was naturally anxious concerning Lucy , and has consulted me professionally about her . 
We are hedged in with difficulties , all of us , my poor fellow , but , please God , we shall come through them all right . 
I waited till I had seen you , as I said in my telegram . 
I wrote him a letter simply telling him that you were coming , as Miss Westenra was not so well , and that I should let him know if need be . 
Right , my friend , he said . 
Quite right ! Better he not know as yet . 
Perhaps he will never know . 
I pray so , but if it be needed , then he shall know all . 
And , my good friend John , let me caution you . 
You deal with the madmen . 
All men are mad in some way or the other , and inasmuch as you deal discreetly with your madmen , so deal with God's madmen too , the rest of the world . 
You tell not your madmen what you do nor why you do it . 
You tell them not what you think . 
So you shall keep knowledge in its place , where it may rest , where it may gather its kind around it and breed . 
You and I shall keep as yet what we know here , and here . 
He touched me on the heart and on the forehead , and then touched himself the same way . 
I have for myself thoughts at the present . 
Later I shall unfold to you . 
Why not now ? I asked . 
It may do some good . 
We may arrive at some decision . 
I did not see the application and told him so . 
But you do not find the good husbandman dig up his planted corn to see if he grow . 
That is for the children who play at husbandry , and not for those who take it as of the work of their life . 
He broke off , for he evidently saw that I understood . 
Then he went on gravely , You were always a careful student , and your case book was ever more full than the rest . 
And I trust that good habit have not fail . 
Remember , my friend , that knowledge is stronger than memory , and we should not trust the weaker . 
Take then good note of it . 
I counsel you , put down in record even your doubts and surmises . 
Hereafter it may be of interest to you to see how true you guess . 
We learn from failure , not from success ! When I described Lucy's symptoms , the same as before , but infinitely more marked , he looked very grave , but said nothing . 
When we were shown in , Mrs. Westenra met us . 
She was alarmed , but not nearly so much as I expected to find her . 
Nature in one of her beneficient moods has ordained that even death has some antidote to its own terrors . 
It is something like the way dame Nature gathers round a foreign body an envelope of some insensitive tissue which can protect from evil that which it would otherwise harm by contact . 
She assented readily , so readily that I saw again the hand of Nature fighting for life . 
Van Helsing and I were shown up to Lucy's room . 
If I was shocked when I saw her yesterday , I was horrified when I saw her today . 
She was ghastly , chalkily pale . 
The red seemed to have gone even from her lips and gums , and the bones of her face stood out prominently . 
Her breathing was painful to see or hear . 
Van Helsing's face grew set as marble , and his eyebrows converged till they almost touched over his nose . 
Lucy lay motionless , and did not seem to have strength to speak , so for a while we were all silent . 
Then Van Helsing beckoned to me , and we went gently out of the room . 
The instant we had closed the door he stepped quickly along the passage to the next door , which was open . 
Then he pulled me quickly in with him and closed the door . 
My god ! he said . 
There is not time to be lost . 
She will die for sheer want of blood to keep the heart's action as it should be . 
There must be a transfusion of blood at once . 
Is it you or me ? I am younger and stronger , Professor . 
Then get ready at once . 
I will bring up my bag . 
I went downstairs with him , and as we were going there was a knock at the hall door . 
When we reached the hall , the maid had just opened the door , and Arthur was stepping quickly in . 
He rushed up to me , saying in an eager whisper , Jack , I was so anxious . 
I read between the lines of your letter , and have been in an agony . 
The dad was better , so I ran down here to see for myself . 
Is not that gentleman Dr . 
Van Helsing ? I am so thankful to you , sir , for coming . 
Without a pause he said to him as he held out his hand , Sir , you have come in time . 
You are the lover of our dear miss . 
She is bad , very , very bad . 
Nay , my child , do not go like that . 
For he suddenly grew pale and sat down in a chair almost fainting . 
You are to help her . 
You can do more than any that live , and your courage is your best help . 
What can I do ? asked Arthur hoarsely . 
Tell me , and I shall do it . 
My life is hers' and I would give the last drop of blood in my body for her . 
The Professor has a strongly humorous side , and I could from old knowledge detect a trace of its origin in his answer . 
Van Helsing slapped him on the shoulder . 
You are a man , and it is a man we want . 
You are better than me , better than my friend John . 
Arthur looked bewildered , and the Professor went on by explaining in a kindly way . 
Young miss is bad , very bad . 
She wants blood , and blood she must have or die . 
John was to give his blood , as he is the more young and strong than me . 
Here Arthur took my hand and wrung it hard in silence . 
But now you are here , you are more good than us , old or young , who toil much in the world of thought . 
He stopped with a sort of choke in his voice . 
Good boy ! said Van Helsing . 
In the not so far off you will be happy that you have done all for her you love . 
Come now and be silent . 
You shall kiss her once before it is done , but then you must go , and you must leave at my sign . 
Say no word to Madame . 
You know how it is with her . 
There must be no shock , any knowledge of this would be one . 
Come ! We all went up to Lucy's room . 
Arthur by direction remained outside . 
Lucy turned her head and looked at us , but said nothing . 
She was not asleep , but she was simply too weak to make the effort . 
Her eyes spoke to us , that was all . 
Van Helsing took some things from his bag and laid them on a little table out of sight . 
Then he mixed a narcotic , and coming over to the bed , said cheerily , Now , little miss , here is your medicine . 
Drink it off , like a good child . 
See , I lift you so that to swallow is easy . 
She had made the effort with success . 
It astonished me how long the drug took to act . 
This , in fact , marked the extent of her weakness . 
The time seemed endless until sleep began to flicker in her eyelids . 
At last , however , the narcotic began to manifest its potency , and she fell into a deep sleep . 
When the Professor was satisfied , he called Arthur into the room , and bade him strip off his coat . 
Then he added , You may take that one little kiss whiles I bring over the table . 
Friend John , help to me ! So neither of us looked whilst he bent over her . 
Van Helsing , turning to me , said , He is so young and strong , and of blood so pure that we need not defibrinate it . 
Then with swiftness , but with absolute method , Van Helsing performed the operation . 
As the transfusion went on , something like life seemed to come back to poor Lucy's cheeks , and through Arthur's growing pallor the joy of his face seemed absolutely to shine . 
After a bit I began to grow anxious , for the loss of blood was telling on Arthur , strong man as he was . 
It gave me an idea of what a terrible strain Lucy's system must have undergone that what weakened Arthur only partially restored her . 
But the Professor's face was set , and he stood watch in hand , and with his eyes fixed now on the patient and now on Arthur . 
I could hear my own heart beat . 
Presently , he said in a soft voice , Do not stir an instant . 
I will look to her . 
When all was over , I could see how much Arthur was weakened . 
And as he had now finished his operation , he adjusted the pillow to the patient's head . 
Arthur did not notice it , but I could hear the deep hiss of indrawn breath which is one of Van Helsing's ways of betraying emotion . 
He must then go home and rest , sleep much and eat much , that he may be recruited of what he has so given to his love . 
He must not stay here . 
Hold a moment ! I may take it , sir , that you are anxious of result . 
Then bring it with you , that in all ways the operation is successful . 
You have saved her life this time , and you can go home and rest easy in mind that all that can be is . 
I shall tell her all when she is well . 
She shall love you none the less for what you have done . 
When Arthur had gone I went back to the room . 
Lucy was sleeping gently , but her breathing was stronger . 
I could see the counterpane move as her breast heaved . 
By the bedside sat Van Helsing , looking at her intently . 
The velvet band again covered the red mark . 
Just over the external jugular vein there were two punctures , not large , but not wholesome looking . 
There was no sign of disease , but the edges were white and worn looking , as if by some trituration . 
It at once occurred to me that that this wound , or whatever it was , might be the means of that manifest loss of blood . 
But I abandoned the idea as soon as it formed , for such a thing could not be . 
The whole bed would have been drenched to a scarlet with the blood which the girl must have lost to leave such a pallor as she had before the transfusion . 
Well ? said Van Helsing . 
Well , said I. I can make nothing of it . 
I must go back to Amsterdam tonight , he said There are books and things there which I want . 
You must remain here all night , and you must not let your sight pass from her . 
Shall I have a nurse ? I asked . 
We are the best nurses , you and I. You keep watch all night . 
See that she is well fed , and that nothing disturbs her . 
You must not sleep all the night . 
Later on we can sleep , you and I. I shall be back as soon as possible . 
And then we may begin . 
May begin ? I said . 
What on earth do you mean ? We shall see ! he answered , as he hurried out . 
He came back a moment later and put his head inside the door and said with a warning finger held up , Remember , she is your charge . 
If you leave her , and harm befall , you shall not sleep easy hereafter ! DR . 
I sat up all night with Lucy . 
The opiate worked itself off towards dusk , and she waked naturally . 
She looked a different being from what she had been before the operation . 
Her spirits even were good , and she was full of a happy vivacity , but I could see evidences of the absolute prostration which she had undergone . 
When I told Mrs. Westenra that Dr . 
Van Helsing had directed that I should sit up with her , she almost pooh poohed the idea , pointing out her daughter's renewed strength and excellent spirits . 
I was firm , however , and made preparations for my long vigil . 
When her maid had prepared her for the night I came in , having in the meantime had supper , and took a seat by the bedside . 
She did not in any way make objection , but looked at me gratefully whenever I caught her eye . 
After a long spell she seemed sinking off to sleep , but with an effort seemed to pull herself together and shook it off . 
It was apparent that she did not want to sleep , so I tackled the subject at once . 
You do not want to sleep ? No. I am afraid . 
Afraid to go to sleep ! Why so ? It is the boon we all crave for . 
Oh , I don't know . 
And that is what is so terrible . 
All this weakness comes to me in sleep , until I dread the very thought . 
But , my dear girl , you may sleep tonight . 
I am here watching you , and I can promise that nothing will happen . 
Ah , I can trust you ! she said . 
I seized the opportunity , and said , I promise that if I see any evidence of bad dreams I will wake you at once . 
You will ? Oh , will you really ? How good you are to me . 
Then I will sleep ! And almost at the word she gave a deep sigh of relief , and sank back , asleep . 
All night long I watched by her . 
She never stirred , but slept on and on in a deep , tranquil , life giving , health giving sleep . 
Her lips were slightly parted , and her breast rose and fell with the regularity of a pendulum . 
There was a smile on her face , and it was evident that no bad dreams had come to disturb her peace of mind . 
In the early morning her maid came , and I left her in her care and took myself back home , for I was anxious about many things . 
I sent a short wire to Van Helsing and to Arthur , telling them of the excellent result of the operation . 
My own work , with its manifold arrears , took me all day to clear off . 
It was dark when I was able to inquire about my zoophagous patient . 
He had been quite quiet for the past day and night . 
I was pretty tired and worn out when I got to Hillingham . 
For two nights I had hardly had a wink of sleep , and my brain was beginning to feel that numbness which marks cerebral exhaustion . 
Lucy was up and in cheerful spirits . 
When she shook hands with me she looked sharply in my face and said , No sitting up tonight for you . 
I am quite well again . 
Indeed , I am , and if there is to be any sitting up , it is I who will sit up with you . 
I would not argue the point , but went and had my supper . 
Lucy came with me , and , enlivened by her charming presence , I made an excellent meal , and had a couple of glasses of the more than excellent port . 
Then Lucy took me upstairs , and showed me a room next her own , where a cozy fire was burning . 
I shall leave this door open and my door too . 
You can lie on the sofa for I know that nothing would induce any of you doctors to go to bed whilst there is a patient above the horizon . 
If I want anything I shall call out , and you can come to me at once . 
I could not but acquiesce , for I was dog tired , and could not have sat up had I tried . 
So , on her renewing her promise to call me if she should want anything , I lay on the sofa , and forgot all about everything . 
I feel so happy tonight . 
I have been so miserably weak , that to be able to think and move about is like feeling sunshine after a long spell of east wind out of a steel sky . 
Somehow Arthur feels very , very close to me . 
I seem to feel his presence warm about me . 
I know where my thoughts are . 
If only Arthur knew ! My dear , my dear , your ears must tingle as you sleep , as mine do waking . 
Oh , the blissful rest of last night ! How I slept , with that dear , good Dr . 
And tonight I shall not fear to sleep , since he is close at hand and within call . 
Thank everybody for being so good to me . 
Thank God ! Goodnight Arthur . 
I was conscious of the Professor's hand on my head , and started awake all in a second . 
That is one of the things that we learn in an asylum , at any rate . 
And how is our patient ? Well , when I left her , or rather when she left me , I answered . 
Come , let us see , he said . 
And together we went into the room . 
The blind was down , and I went over to raise it gently , whilst Van Helsing stepped , with his soft , cat like tread , over to the bed . 
As I passed over he moved back , and his exclamation of horror , Gott in Himmel ! needed no enforcement from his agonized face . 
He raised his hand and pointed to the bed , and his iron face was drawn and ashen white . 
I felt my knees begin to tremble . 
There on the bed , seemingly in a swoon , lay poor Lucy , more horribly white and wan looking than ever . 
Even the lips were white , and the gums seemed to have shrunken back from the teeth , as we sometimes see in a corpse after a prolonged illness . 
I flew to the dining room , and returned with the decanter . 
He wetted the poor white lips with it , and together we rubbed palm and wrist and heart . 
He felt her heart , and after a few moments of agonizing suspense said , It is not too late . 
It beats , though but feebly . 
All our work is undone . 
There is no young Arthur here now . 
I have to call on you yourself this time , friend John . 
As he spoke , he was dipping into his bag , and producing the instruments of transfusion . 
I had taken off my coat and rolled up my shirt sleeve . 
There was no possibility of an opiate just at present , and no need of one . 
and so , without a moment's delay , we began the operation . 
Do not stir , he said . 
But I fear that with growing strength she may wake , and that would make danger , oh , so much danger . 
But I shall precaution take . 
I shall give hypodermic injection of morphia . 
He proceeded then , swiftly and deftly , to carry out his intent . 
The effect on Lucy was not bad , for the faint seemed to merge subtly into the narcotic sleep . 
It was with a feeling of personal pride that I could see a faint tinge of color steal back into the pallid cheeks and lips . 
No man knows , till he experiences it , what it is to feel his own lifeblood drawn away into the veins of the woman he loves . 
The Professor watched me critically . 
That will do , he said . 
You took a great deal more from Art . 
To which he smiled a sad sort of smile as he replied , He is her lover , her fiance . 
You have work , much work to do for her and for others , and the present will suffice . 
When we stopped the operation , he attended to Lucy , whilst I applied digital pressure to my own incision . 
I laid down , while I waited his leisure to attend to me , for I felt faint and a little sick . 
By and by he bound up my wound , and sent me downstairs to get a glass of wine for myself . 
As I was leaving the room , he came after me , and half whispered . 
Mind , nothing must be said of this . 
If our young lover should turn up unexpected , as before , no word to him . 
It would at once frighten him and enjealous him , too . 
So ! When I came back he looked at me carefully , and then said , You are not much the worse . 
Go into the room , and lie on your sofa , and rest awhile , then have much breakfast and come here to me . 
I followed out his orders , for I knew how right and wise they were . 
I had done my part , and now my next duty was to keep up my strength . 
I felt very weak , and in the weakness lost something of the amazement at what had occurred . 
Lucy slept well into the day , and when she woke she was fairly well and strong , though not nearly so much so as the day before . 
When Van Helsing had seen her , he went out for a walk , leaving me in charge , with strict injunctions that I was not to leave her for a moment . 
I could hear his voice in the hall , asking the way to the nearest telegraph office . 
Lucy chatted with me freely , and seemed quite unconscious that anything had happened . 
I tried to keep her amused and interested . 
When her mother came up to see her , she did not seem to notice any change whatever , but said to me gratefully , We owe you so much , Dr . 
Seward , for all you have done , but you really must now take care not to overwork yourself . 
You are looking pale yourself . 
The reaction came in excessive pallor as she turned imploring eyes on me . 
I smiled and nodded , and laid my finger on my lips . 
With a sigh , she sank back amid her pillows . 
Van Helsing returned in a couple of hours , and presently said to me . 
Now you go home , and eat much and drink enough . 
I stay here tonight , and I shall sit up with little miss myself . 
You and I must watch the case , and we must have none other to know . 
No , do not ask the . 
Do not fear to think even the most not improbable . 
In the hall two of the maids came to me , and asked if they or either of them might not sit up with Miss Lucy . 
They implored me to let them , and when I said it was Dr . 
Van Helsing's wish that either he or I should sit up , they asked me quite piteously to intercede with the foreign gentleman' . 
I was much touched by their kindness . 
Perhaps it is because I am weak at present , and perhaps because it was on Lucy's account , that their devotion was manifested . 
For over and over again have I seen similar instances of woman's kindness . 
I got back here in time for a late dinner , went my rounds , all well , and set this down whilst waiting for sleep . 
This afternoon I went over to Hillingham . 
Found Van Helsing in excellent spirits , and Lucy much better . 
Shortly after I had arrived , a big parcel from abroad came for the Professor . 
He opened it with much impressment , assumed , of course , and showed a great bundle of white flowers . 
These are for you , Miss Lucy , he said . 
For me ? Oh , Dr . 
Van Helsing ! Yes , my dear , but not for you to play with . 
Here Lucy made a wry face . 
Aha , my pretty miss , that bring the so nice nose all straight again . 
This is medicinal , but you do not know how . 
I put him in your window , I make pretty wreath , and hang him round your neck , so you sleep well . 
Oh , yes ! They , like the lotus flower , make your trouble forgotten . 
It smell so like the waters of Lethe , and of that fountain of youth that the Conquistadores sought for in the Floridas , and find him all too late . 
Whilst he was speaking , Lucy had been examining the flowers and smelling them . 
Now she threw them down saying , with half laughter , and half disgust , Oh , Professor , I believe you are only putting up a joke on me . 
Why , these flowers are only common garlic . 
Take care , for the sake of others if not for your own . 
Then seeing poor Lucy scared , as she might well be , he went on more gently , Oh , little miss , my dear , do not fear me . 
I only do for your good , but there is much virtue to you in those so common flowers . 
See , I place them myself in your room . 
I make myself the wreath that you are to wear . 
But hush ! No telling to others that make so inquisitive questions . 
We must obey , and silence is a part of obedience , and obedience is to bring you strong and well into loving arms that wait for you . 
Now sit still a while . 
I had to telegraph yesterday , or they would not have been here . 
We went into the room , taking the flowers with us . 
The Professor's actions were certainly odd and not to be found in any pharmacopeia that I ever heard of . 
First he fastened up the windows and latched them securely . 
Then with the wisp he rubbed all over the jamb of the door , above , below , and at each side , and round the fireplace in the same way . 
It all seemed grotesque to me , and presently I said , Well , Professor , I know you always have a reason for what you do , but this certainly puzzles me . 
It is well we have no sceptic here , or he would say that you were working some spell to keep out an evil spirit . 
Perhaps I am ! He answered quietly as he began to make the wreath which Lucy was to wear round her neck . 
We then waited whilst Lucy made her toilet for the night , and when she was in bed he came and himself fixed the wreath of garlic round her neck . 
I promise , said Lucy . 
Tomorrow in the morning early you call for me , and we come together to see our pretty miss , so much more strong for my spell' which I have work . 
Ho , ho ! He seemed so confident that I , remembering my own confidence two nights before and with the baneful result , felt awe and vague terror . 
It must have been my weakness that made me hesitate to tell it to my friend , but I felt it all the more , like unshed tears . 
CHAPTER LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY September . 
How good they all are to me . 
I quite love that dear Dr . 
I wonder why he was so anxious about these flowers . 
He positively frightened me , he was so fierce . 
And yet he must have been right , for I feel comfort from them already . 
Somehow , I do not dread being alone tonight , and I can go to sleep without fear . 
I shall not mind any flapping outside the window . 
Well , here I am tonight , hoping for sleep , and lying like Ophelia in the play , with virgin crants and maiden strewments . 
I never liked garlic before , but tonight it is delightful ! There is peace in its smell . 
I feel sleep coming already . 
Called at the Berkeley and found Van Helsing , as usual , up to time . 
The carriage ordered from the hotel was waiting . 
The Professor took his bag , which he always brings with him now . 
Let all be put down exactly . 
Van Helsing and I arrived at Hillingham at eight o'clock . 
It was a lovely morning . 
The bright sunshine and all the fresh feeling of early autumn seemed like the completion of nature's annual work . 
The leaves were turning to all kinds of beautiful colors , but had not yet begun to drop from the trees . 
When we entered we met Mrs. Westenra coming out of the morning room . 
She is always an early riser . 
She greeted us warmly and said , You will be glad to know that Lucy is better . 
The dear child is still asleep . 
I looked into her room and saw her , but did not go in , lest I should disturb her . 
The Professor smiled , and looked quite jubilant . 
He rubbed his hands together , and said , Aha ! I thought I had diagnosed the case . 
To which she replied , You must not take all the credit to yourself , doctor . 
Lucy's state this morning is due in part to me . 
How do you mean , ma'am ? asked the Professor . 
Well , I was anxious about the dear child in the night , and went into her room . 
She was sleeping soundly , so soundly that even my coming did not wake her . 
But the room was awfully stuffy . 
There were a lot of those horrible , strong smelling flowers about everywhere , and she had actually a bunch of them round her neck . 
You will be pleased with her , I am sure . 
She moved off into her boudoir , where she usually breakfasted early . 
As she had spoken , I watched the Professor's face , and saw it turn ashen gray . 
He had been able to retain his self command whilst the poor lady was present , for he knew her state and how mischievous a shock would be . 
He actually smiled on her as he held open the door for her to pass into her room . 
But the instant she had disappeared he pulled me , suddenly and forcibly , into the dining room and closed the door . 
Then , for the first time in my life , I saw Van Helsing break down . 
He raised his hands over his head in a sort of mute despair , and then beat his palms together in a helpless way . 
Then he raised his arms again , as though appealing to the whole universe . 
God ! God ! God ! he said . 
Oh , how we are beset ! How are all the powers of the devils against us ! Suddenly he jumped to his feet . 
come , we must see and act . 
Devils or no devils , or all the devils at once , it matters not . 
We must fight him all the same . 
He went to the hall door for his bag , and together we went up to Lucy's room . 
Once again I drew up the blind , whilst Van Helsing went towards the bed . 
This time he did not start as he looked on the poor face with the same awful , waxen pallor as before . 
He wore a look of stern sadness and infinite pity . 
As I expected , he murmured , with that hissing inspiration of his which meant so much . 
Without a word he went and locked the door , and then began to set out on the little table the instruments for yet another operation of transfusion of blood . 
I had long ago recognized the necessity , and begun to take off my coat , but he stopped me with a warning hand . 
As he spoke he took off his coat and rolled up his shirtsleeve . 
Again some return of color to the ashy cheeks , and the regular breathing of healthy sleep . 
This time I watched whilst Van Helsing recruited himself and rested . 
Presently he took an opportunity of telling Mrs. Westenra that she must not remove anything from Lucy's room without consulting him . 
That the flowers were of medicinal value , and that the breathing of their odor was a part of the system of cure . 
Then he took over the care of the case himself , saying that he would watch this night and the next , and would send me word when to come . 
After another hour Lucy waked from her sleep , fresh and bright and seemingly not much the worse for her terrible ordeal . 
What does it all mean ? I am beginning to wonder if my long habit of life amongst the insane is beginning to tell upon my own brain . 
Four days and nights of peace . 
I am getting so strong again that I hardly know myself . 
It is as if I had passed through some long nightmare , and had just awakened to see the beautiful sunshine and feel the fresh air of the morning around me . 
I have a dim half remembrance of long , anxious times of waiting and fearing , darkness in which there was not even the pain of hope to make present distress more poignant . 
And then long spells of oblivion , and the rising back to life as a diver coming up through a great press of water . 
Since , however , Dr . 
Van Helsing has been with me , all this bad dreaming seems to have passed away . 
I go to bed now without any fear of sleep . 
I do not even try to keep awake . 
I have grown quite fond of the garlic , and a boxful arrives for me every day from Haarlem . 
Van Helsing is going away , as he has to be for a day in Amsterdam . 
But I need not be watched . 
I am well enough to be left alone . 
Thank God for Mother's sake , and dear Arthur's , and for all our friends who have been so kind ! I shall not even feel the change , for last night Dr . 
Van Helsing slept in his chair a lot of the time . 
I found him asleep twice when I awoke . 
But I did not fear to go to sleep again , although the boughs or bats or something flapped almost angrily against the window panes . 
THE PALL MALL GAZETTE September . 
Thomas Bilder lives in one of the cottages in the enclosure behind the elephant house , and was just sitting down to his tea when I found him . 
The keeper would not enter on what he called business until the supper was over , and we were all satisfied . 
Then when the table was cleared , and he had lit his pipe , he said , Now , Sir , you can go on and arsk me what you want . 
You'll excoose me refoosin' to talk of perfeshunal subjucts afore meals . 
I gives the wolves and the jackals and the hyenas in all our section their tea afore I begins to arsk them questions . 
How do you mean , ask them questions ? I queried , wishful to get him into a talkative humor . 
Ittin' of them over the ead with a pole is one way . 
Scratchin' of their ears in another , when gents as is flush wants a bit of a show orf to their gals . 
Mind you , he added philosophically , there's a deal of the same nature in us as in them theer animiles . 
Not even when you arsked me sarcastic like if I'd like you to arsk the Superintendent if you might arsk me questions . 
Without offence did I tell yer to go to ell ? You did . 
An' when you said you'd report me for usin' obscene language that was ittin' me over the ead . 
But the arf quid made that all right . 
I weren't a goin' to fight , so I waited for the food , and did with my owl as the wolves and lions and tigers does . 
Drive along with your questions . 
I know what yer a comin' at , that ere escaped wolf . 
I want you to give me your view of it . 
This ere is about the ole story . 
That ere wolf what we called Bersicker was one of three gray ones that came from Norway to Jamrach's , which we bought off him four years ago . 
He was a nice well behaved wolf , that never gave no trouble to talk of . 
I'm more surprised at im for wantin' to get out nor any other animile in the place . 
But , there , you can't trust wolves no more nor women . 
Don't you mind him , Sir ! broke in Mrs. Tom , with a cheery laugh . 
E's got mindin' the animiles so long that blest if he ain't like a old wolf isself ! But there ain't no arm in im . 
Well , Sir , it was about two hours after feedin' yesterday when I first hear my disturbance . 
I was makin' up a litter in the monkey house for a young puma which is ill . 
But when I heard the yelpin' and owlin' I kem away straight . 
There was Bersicker a tearin' like a mad thing at the bars as if he wanted to get out . 
He ad white kid gloves on is ands , and he pointed out the animiles to me and says , Keeper , these wolves seem upset at something . 
Maybe it's you , says I , for I did not like the airs as he give isself . 
He didn't get angry , as I oped he would , but he smiled a kind of insolent smile , with a mouth full of white , sharp teeth . 
Oh no , they wouldn't like me , e says . 
Ow yes , they would , says I , a imitatin'of him . 
They always like a bone or two to clean their teeth on about tea time , which you as a bagful . 
That there man kem over , and blessed but if he didn't put in his hand and stroke the old wolf's ears too ! Tyke care , says I. Bersicker is quick . 
Never mind , he says . 
Nom' says he , not exactly in the business , but I ave made pets of several . 
and with that he lifts his at as perlite as a lord , and walks away . 
Old Bersicker kep' a lookin' arter im till e was out of sight , and then went and lay down in a corner and wouldn't come hout the ole hevening . 
Well , larst night , so soon as the moon was hup , the wolves here all began a owling . 
There warn't nothing for them to owl at . 
There warn't no one near , except some one that was evidently a callin' a dog somewheres out back of the gardings in the Park road . 
Once or twice I went out to see that all was right , and it was , and then the owling stopped . 
And that's all I know for certing . 
My own belief was that the armony ad got into his ead . 
It seems to me that ere wolf escaped simply because he wanted to get out . 
Right y are , Sir , he said briskly . 
Ye ll excoose me , I know , for a chaffin' of ye , but the old woman her winked at me , which was as much as telling me to go on . 
Well , I never ! said the old lady . 
That ere wolf is a idin' of , somewheres . 
Or maybe he's got down some area and is in a coal cellar . 
I was handing him the half sovereign , when something came bobbing up against the window , and Mr. Bilder's face doubled its natural length with surprise . 
God bless me ! he said . 
If there ain't old Bersicker come back by isself ! He went to the door and opened it , a most unnecessary proceeding it seemed to me . 
I have always thought that a wild animal never looks so well as when some obstacle of pronounced durability is between us . 
A personal experience has intensified rather than diminished that idea . 
After all , however , there is nothing like custom , for neither Bilder nor his wife thought any more of the wolf than I should of a dog . 
The animal itself was a peaceful and well behaved as that father of all picture wolves , Red Riding Hood's quondam friend , whilst moving her confidence in masquerade . 
The whole scene was a unutterable mixture of comedy and pathos . 
Didn't I say it all along ? Here's his head all cut and full of broken glass . 
E's been a gettin' over some bloomin' wall or other . 
It's a shyme that people are allowed to top their walls with broken bottles . 
This ere's what comes of it . 
I came off too , to report the only exclusive information that is given today regarding the strange escapade at the Zoo . 
I was engaged after dinner in my study posting up my books , which , through press of other work and the many visits to Lucy , had fallen sadly into arrear . 
Suddenly the door was burst open , and in rushed my patient , with his face distorted with passion . 
I was thunderstruck , for such a thing as a patient getting of his own accord into the Superintendent's study is almost unknown . 
Without an instant's notice he made straight at me . 
He had a dinner knife in his hand , and as I saw he was dangerous , I tried to keep the table between us . 
He was too quick and too strong for me , however , for before I could get my balance he had struck at me and cut my left wrist rather severely . 
Before he could strike again , however , I got in my right hand and he was sprawling on his back on the floor . 
My wrist bled freely , and quite a little pool trickled on to the carpet . 
I saw that my friend was not intent on further effort , and occupied myself binding up my wrist , keeping a wary eye on the prostrate figure all the time . 
When the attendants rushed in , and we turned our attention to him , his employment positively sickened me . 
He was lying on his belly on the floor licking up , like a dog , the blood which had fallen from my wounded wrist . 
I have lost too much of late for my physical good , and then the prolonged strain of Lucy's illness and its horrible phases is telling on me . 
I am over excited and weary , and I need rest , rest , rest . 
Happily Van Helsing has not summoned me , so I need not forego my sleep . 
Tonight I could not well do without it . 
Do not fail to be at Hilllingham tonight . 
If not watching all the time , frequently visit and see that flowers are as placed , very important , do not fail . 
Shall be with you as soon as possible after arrival . 
Just off train to London . 
The arrival of Van Helsing's telegram filled me with dismay . 
A whole night lost , and I know by bitter experience what may happen in a night . 
I shall take this cylinder with me , and then I can complete my entry on Lucy's phonograph . 
MEMORANDUM LEFT BY LUCY WESTENRA September , Night . 
I write this and leave it to be seen , so that no one may by any chance get into trouble through me . 
This is an exact record of what took place tonight . 
I feel I am dying of weakness , and have barely strength to write , but it must be done if I die in the doing . 
I went to bed as usual , taking care that the flowers were placed as Dr . 
Van Helsing directed , and soon fell asleep . 
I was not afraid , but I did wish that Dr . 
Seward was in the next room , as Dr . 
Van Helsing said he would be , so that I might have called him . 
I tried to sleep , but I could not . 
Then there came to me the old fear of sleep , and I determined to keep awake . 
Perversely sleep would try to come then when I did not want it . 
So , as I feared to be alone , I opened my door and called out . 
Is there anybody there ? There was no answer . 
I was afraid to wake mother , and so closed my door again . 
Then outside in the shrubbery I heard a sort of howl like a dog's , but more fierce and deeper . 
I went to the window and looked out , but could see nothing , except a big bat , which had evidently been buffeting its wings against the window . 
So I went back to bed again , but determined not to go to sleep . 
Presently the door opened , and mother looked in . 
Seeing by my moving that I was not asleep , she came in and sat by me . 
She said to me even more sweetly and softly than her wont , I was uneasy about you , darling , and came in to see that you were all right . 
I feared she might catch cold sitting there , and asked her to come in and sleep with me , so she came into bed , and lay down beside me . 
She did not take off her dressing gown , for she said she would only stay a while and then go back to her own bed . 
As she lay there in my arms , and I in hers the flapping and buffeting came to the window again . 
She was startled and a little frightened , and cried out , What is that ? I tried to pacify her , and at last succeeded , and she lay quiet . 
But I could hear her poor dear heart still beating terribly . 
The window blind blew back with the wind that rushed in , and in the aperture of the broken panes there was the head of a great , gaunt gray wolf . 
Mother cried out in a fright , and struggled up into a sitting posture , and clutched wildly at anything that would help her . 
Amongst other things , she clutched the wreath of flowers that Dr . 
Van Helsing insisted on my wearing round my neck , and tore it away from me . 
For a second or two she sat up , pointing at the wolf , and there was a strange and horrible gurgling in her throat . 
Then she fell over , as if struck with lightning , and her head hit my forehead and made me dizzy for a moment or two . 
The room and all round seemed to spin round . 
The time did not seem long , but very , very awful , till I recovered consciousness again . 
Somewhere near , a passing bell was tolling . 
The dogs all round the neighborhood were howling , and in our shrubbery , seemingly just outside , a nightingale was singing . 
I was dazed and stupid with pain and terror and weakness , but the sound of the nightingale seemed like the voice of my dead mother come back to comfort me . 
The sounds seemed to have awakened the maids , too , for I could hear their bare feet pattering outside my door . 
I called to them , and they came in , and when they saw what had happened , and what it was that lay over me on the bed , they screamed out . 
The wind rushed in through the broken window , and the door slammed to . 
They lifted off the body of my dear mother , and laid her , covered up with a sheet , on the bed after I had got up . 
They were all so frightened and nervous that I directed them to go to the dining room and each have a glass of wine . 
The door flew open for an instant and closed again . 
The maids shrieked , and then went in a body to the dining room , and I laid what flowers I had on my dear mother's breast . 
When they were there I remembered what Dr . 
Van Helsing had told me , but I didn't like to remove them , and besides , I would have some of the servants to sit up with me now . 
I was surprised that the maids did not come back . 
I called them , but got no answer , so I went to the dining room to look for them . 
My heart sank when I saw what had happened . 
They all four lay helpless on the floor , breathing heavily . 
The decanter of sherry was on the table half full , but there was a queer , acrid smell about . 
I was suspicious , and examined the decanter . 
It smelt of laudanum , and looking on the sideboard , I found that the bottle which Mother's doctor uses for her oh ! did use was empty . 
What am I to do ? What am I to do ? I am back in the room with Mother . 
I cannot leave her , and I am alone , save for the sleeping servants , whom some one has drugged . 
Alone with the dead ! I dare not go out , for I can hear the low howl of the wolf through the broken window . 
The air seems full of specks , floating and circling in the draught from the window , and the lights burn blue and dim . 
My dear mother gone ! It is time that I go too . 
Goodbye , dear Arthur , if I should not survive this night . 
God keep you , dear , and God help me ! CHAPTER DR . 
I drove at once to Hillingham and arrived early . 
Keeping my cab at the gate , I went up the avenue alone . 
I knocked gently and rang as quietly as possible , for I feared to disturb Lucy or her mother , and hoped to only bring a servant to the door . 
After a while , finding no response , I knocked and rang again , still no answer . 
Hitherto I had blamed only the servants , but now a terrible fear began to assail me . 
I could find no means of ingress . 
Every window and door was fastened and locked , and I returned baffled to the porch . 
As I did so , I heard the rapid pit pat of a swiftly driven horse's feet . 
They stopped at the gate , and a few seconds later I met Van Helsing running up the avenue . 
When he saw me , he gasped out , Then it was you , and just arrived . 
He paused and raised his hat as he said solemnly , Then I fear we are too late . 
God's will be done ! With his usual recuperative energy , he went on , Come . 
If there be no way open to get in , we must make one . 
Time is all in all to us now . 
We went round to the back of the house , where there was a kitchen window . 
The Professor took a small surgical saw from his case , and handing it to me , pointed to the iron bars which guarded the window . 
I attacked them at once and had very soon cut through three of them . 
Then with a long , thin knife we pushed back the fastening of the sashes and opened the window . 
I helped the Professor in , and followed him . 
There was no one in the kitchen or in the servants' rooms , which were close at hand . 
There was no need to think them dead , for their stertorous breathing and the acrid smell of laudanum in the room left no doubt as to their condition . 
Van Helsing and I looked at each other , and as we moved away he said , We can attend to them later . 
Then we ascended to Lucy's room . 
For an instant or two we paused at the door to listen , but there was no sound that we could hear . 
With white faces and trembling hands , we opened the door gently , and entered the room . 
How shall I describe what we saw ? On the bed lay two women , Lucy and her mother . 
By her side lay Lucy , with face white and still more drawn . 
Without a word the Professor bent over the bed , his head almost touching poor Lucy's breast . 
The maids were still breathing , but more restlessly , and I fancied that the narcotic was wearing off . 
I did not stay to make sure , but returned to Van Helsing . 
He rubbed the brandy , as on another occasion , on her lips and gums and on her wrists and the palms of her hands . 
He said to me , I can do this , all that can be at the present . 
You go wake those maids . 
Flick them in the face with a wet towel , and flick them hard . 
Make them get heat and fire and a warm bath . 
This poor soul is nearly as cold as that beside her . 
She will need be heated before we can do anything more . 
I went at once , and found little difficulty in waking three of the women . 
The fourth was only a young girl , and the drug had evidently affected her more strongly so I lifted her on the sofa and let her sleep . 
The others were dazed at first , but as remembrance came back to them they cried and sobbed in a hysterical manner . 
I was stern with them , however , and would not let them talk . 
I told them that one life was bad enough to lose , and if they delayed they would sacrifice Miss Lucy . 
So , sobbing and crying they went about their way , half clad as they were , and prepared fire and water . 
Fortunately , the kitchen and boiler fires were still alive , and there was no lack of hot water . 
We got a bath and carried Lucy out as she was and placed her in it . 
Whilst we were busy chafing her limbs there was a knock at the hall door . 
One of the maids ran off , hurried on some more clothes , and opened it . 
Then she returned and whispered to us that there was a gentleman who had come with a message from Mr. Holmwood . 
I bade her simply tell him that he must wait , for we could see no one now . 
She went away with the message , and , engrossed with our work , I clean forgot all about him . 
I never saw in all my experience the Professor work in such deadly earnest . 
I knew , as he knew , that it was a stand up fight with death , and in a pause told him so . 
He answered me in a way that I did not understand , but with the sternest look that his face could wear . 
If that were all , I would stop here where we are now , and let her fade away into peace , for I see no light in life over her horizon . 
He went on with his work with , if possible , renewed and more frenzied vigour . 
Presently we both began to be conscious that the heat was beginning to be of some effect . 
Lucy's heart beat a trifle more audibly to the stethoscope , and her lungs had a perceptible movement . 
I noticed that Van Helsing tied a soft silk handkerchief round her throat . 
She was still unconscious , and was quite as bad as , if not worse than , we had ever seen her . 
We must consult as to what is to be done , he said as we descended the stairs . 
In the hall he opened the dining room door , and we passed in , he closing the door carefully behind him . 
The shutters had been opened , but the blinds were already down , with that obedience to the etiquette of death which the British woman of the lower classes always rigidly observes . 
The room was , therefore , dimly dark . 
It was , however , light enough for our purposes . 
Van Helsing's sternness was somewhat relieved by a look of perplexity . 
He was evidently torturing his mind about something , so I waited for an instant , and he spoke . 
I fear to trust those women , even if they would have courage to submit . 
What brought you her ? I cried as our hands met . 
I guess Art is the cause . 
He handed me a telegram . 
Have not heard from Seward for three days , and am terribly anxious . 
Father still in same condition . 
Send me word how Lucy is . 
I think I came just in the nick of time . 
You know you have only to tell me what to do . 
You're a man and no mistake . 
Well , the devil may work against us for all he's worth , but God sends us men when we want them . 
Once again we went through that ghastly operation . 
I have not the heart to go through with the details . 
Her struggle back into life was something frightful to see and hear . 
However , the action of both heart and lungs improved , and Van Helsing made a sub cutaneous injection of morphia , as before , and with good effect . 
Her faint became a profound slumber . 
The Professor watched whilst I went downstairs with Quincey Morris , and sent one of the maids to pay off one of the cabmen who were waiting . 
I left Quincey lying down after having a glass of wine , and told the cook to get ready a good breakfast . 
Then a thought struck me , and I went back to the room where Lucy now was . 
When I came softly in , I found Van Helsing with a sheet or two of note paper in his hand . 
He had evidently read it , and was thinking it over as he sat with his hand to his brow . 
There was a look of grim satisfaction in his face , as of one who has had a doubt solved . 
He handed me the paper saying only , It dropped from Lucy's breast when we carried her to the bath . 
Van Helsing put out his hand and took the paper , saying , Do not trouble about it now . 
Forget if for the present . 
You shall know and understand it all in good time , but it will be later . 
And now what is it that you came to me to say ? This brought me back to fact , and I was all myself again . 
I came to speak about the certificate of death . 
If we do not act properly and wisely , there may be an inquest , and that paper would have to be produced . 
I am in hopes that we need have no inquest , for if we had it would surely kill poor Lucy , if nothing else did . 
Let us fill up the certificate at once , and I shall take it myself to the registrar and go on to the undertaker . 
One , two , three , all open their veins for her , besides one old man . 
Ah , yes , I know , friend John . 
I am not blind ! I love you all the more for it ! Now go . 
I found no difficulty about the registration , and arranged with the local undertaker to come up in the evening to measure for the coffin and to make arrangements . 
When I got back Quincey was waiting for me . 
I told him I would see him as soon as I knew about Lucy , and went up to her room . 
She was still sleeping , and the Professor seemingly had not moved from his seat at her side . 
From his putting his finger to his lips , I gathered that he expected her to wake before long and was afraid of fore stalling nature . 
You know I loved that girl and wanted to marry her , but although that's all past and gone , I can't help feeling anxious about her all the same . 
Now I know well that you medical men speak in camera , and that a man must not expect to know what they consult about in private . 
But this is no common matter , and whatever it is , I have done my part . 
Is not that so ? That's so , I said , and he went on . 
I take it that both you and Van Helsing had done already what I did today . 
Is not that so ? That's so . 
And I guess Art was in it too . 
When I saw him four days ago down at his own place he looked queer . 
I have not seen anything pulled down so quick since I was on the Pampas and had a mare that I was fond of go to grass all in a night . 
Jack , if you may tell me without betraying confidence , Arthur was the first , is not that so ? As he spoke the poor fellow looked terribly anxious . 
He was in a torture of suspense regarding the woman he loved , and his utter ignorance of the terrible mystery which seemed to surround her intensified his pain . 
His very heart was bleeding , and it took all the manhood of him , and there was a royal lot of it , too , to keep him from breaking down . 
And how long has this been going on ? About ten days . 
Man alive , her whole body wouldn't hold it . 
Then coming close to me , he spoke in a fierce half whisper . 
What took it out ? I shook my head . 
That , I said , is the crux . 
Van Helsing is simply frantic about it , and I am at my wits' end . 
I can't even hazard a guess . 
There has been a series of little circumstances which have thrown out all our calculations as to Lucy being properly watched . 
But these shall not occur again . 
Here we stay until all be well , or ill . 
Quincey held out his hand . 
Count me in , he said . 
You and the Dutchman will tell me what to do , and I'll do it . 
The careful Professor had replaced it where it had come from , lest on waking she should be alarmed . 
Her eyes then lit on Van Helsing and on me too , and gladdened . 
Then she looked round the room , and seeing where she was , shuddered . 
She gave a loud cry , and put her poor thin hands before her pale face . 
We both understood what was meant , that she had realized to the full her mother's death . 
So we tried what we could to comfort her . 
Doubtless sympathy eased her somewhat , but she was very low in thought and spirit , and wept silently and weakly for a long time . 
We told her that either or both of us would now remain with her all the time , and that seemed to comfort her . 
Towards dusk she fell into a doze . 
Here a very odd thing occurred . 
Whilst still asleep she took the paper from her breast and tore it in two . 
Van Helsing stepped over and took the pieces from her . 
All the same , however , she went on with the action of tearing , as though the material were still in her hands . 
Finally she lifted her hands and opened them as though scattering the fragments . 
Van Helsing seemed surprised , and his brows gathered as if in thought , but he said nothing . 
All last night she slept fitfully , being always afraid to sleep , and something weaker when she woke from it . 
The Professor and I took in turns to watch , and we never left her for a moment unattended . 
Quincey Morris said nothing about his intention , but I knew that all night long he patrolled round and round the house . 
When the day came , its searching light showed the ravages in poor Lucy's strength . 
She was hardly able to turn her head , and the little nourishment which she could take seemed to do her no good . 
At times she slept , and both Van Helsing and I noticed the difference in her , between sleeping and waking . 
Whilst asleep she looked stronger , although more haggard , and her breathing was softer . 
Her open mouth showed the pale gums drawn back from the teeth , which looked positively longer and sharper than usual . 
When she woke the softness of her eyes evidently changed the expression , for she looked her own self , although a dying one . 
In the afternoon she asked for Arthur , and we telegraphed for him . 
Quincey went off to meet him at the station . 
When he saw her , Arthur was simply choking with emotion , and none of us could speak . 
Arthur's presence , however , seemed to act as a stimulant . 
She rallied a little , and spoke to him more brightly than she had done since we arrived . 
He too pulled himself together , and spoke as cheerily as he could , so that the best was made of everything . 
It is now nearly one o'clock , and he and Van Helsing are sitting with her . 
I am to relieve them in a quarter of an hour , and I am entering this on Lucy's phonograph . 
Until six o'clock they are to try to rest . 
I fear that tomorrow will end our watching , for the shock has been too great . 
The poor child cannot rally . 
September My dearest Lucy , It seems an age since I heard from you , or indeed since I wrote . 
You will pardon me , I know , for all my faults when you have read all my budget of news . 
Well , I got my husband back all right . 
When we arrived at Exeter there was a carriage waiting for us , and in it , though he had an attack of gout , Mr. Hawkins . 
He took us to his house , where there were rooms for us all nice and comfortable , and we dined together . 
After dinner Mr. Hawkins said , My dears , I want to drink your health and prosperity , and may every blessing attend you both . 
I know you both from children , and have , with love and pride , seen you grow up . 
Now I want you to make your home here with me . 
I have left to me neither chick nor child . 
All are gone , and in my will I have left you everything . 
I cried , Lucy dear , as Jonathan and the old man clasped hands . 
Our evening was a very , very happy one . 
I am busy , I need not tell you , arranging things and housekeeping . 
Jonathan and Mr. Hawkins are busy all day , for now that Jonathan is a partner , Mr. Hawkins wants to tell him all about the clients . 
He is beginning to put some flesh on his bones again , but he was terribly weakened by the long illness . 
Even now he sometimes starts out of his sleep in a sudden way and awakes all trembling until I can coax him back to his usual placidity . 
However , thank God , these occasions grow less frequent as the days go on , and they will in time pass away altogether , I trust . 
And now I have told you my news , let me ask yours . 
Jonathan asks me to send his respectful duty' , but I do not think that is good enough from the junior partner of the important firm Hawkins Harker . 
Goodbye , my dearest Lucy , and blessings on you . 
With regard to patient , Renfield , there is more to say . 
He has had another outbreak , which might have had a dreadful ending , but which , as it fortunately happened , was unattended with any unhappy results . 
The men stopped at our gate to ask the porter their way , as they were strangers . 
I was myself looking out of the study window , having a smoke after dinner , and saw one of them come up to the house . 
As he passed the window of Renfield's room , the patient began to rate him from within , and called him all the foul names he could lay his tongue to . 
I pity ye and the guv'nor for havin' to live in the house with a wild beast like that . 
Then he asked his way civilly enough , and I told him where the gate of the empty house was . 
He went away followed by threats and curses and revilings from our man . 
I found him , to my astonishment , quite composed and most genial in his manner . 
It was , I am sorry to say , however , only another instance of his cunning , for within half an hour I heard of him again . 
This time he had broken out through the window of his room , and was running down the avenue . 
I called to the attendants to follow me , and ran after him , for I feared he was intent on some mischief . 
My fear was justified when I saw the same cart which had passed before coming down the road , having on it some great wooden boxes . 
The men were wiping their foreheads , and were flushed in the face , as if with violent exercise . 
Before I could get up to him , the patient rushed at them , and pulling one of them off the cart , began to knock his head against the ground . 
If I had not seized him just at the moment , I believe he would have killed the man there and then . 
The other fellow jumped down and struck him over the head with the butt end of his heavy whip . 
You know I am no lightweight , and the others were both burly men . 
It was with very considerable difficulty that they got him back to the house and put him in the padded room . 
One of the attendants , Hardy , had a finger broken . 
However , I set it all right , and he is going on well . 
The two carriers were at first loud in their threats of actions for damages , and promised to rain all the penalties of the law on us . 
Their threats were , however , mingled with some sort of indirect apology for the defeat of the two of them by a feeble madman . 
I took their names and addresses , in case they might be needed . 
They are as follows Jack Smollet , of Dudding's Rents , King George's Road , Great Walworth , and Thomas Snelling , Peter Farley's Row , Guide Court , Bethnal Green . 
They are both in the employment of Harris Sons , Moving and Shipment Company , Orange Master's Yard , Soho . 
I shall report to you any matter of interest occurring here , and shall wire you at once if there is anything of importance . 
Believe me , dear Sir , Yours faithfully , Patrick Hennessey . 
September My dearest Lucy , Such a sad blow has befallen us . 
Mr. Hawkins has died very suddenly . 
Some may not think it so sad for us , but we had both come to so love him that it really seems as though we had lost a father . 
I never knew either father or mother , so that the dear old man's death is a real blow to me . 
He says the amount of responsibility which it puts upon him makes him nervous . 
He begins to doubt himself . 
I try to cheer him up , and my belief in him helps him to have a belief in himself . 
But it is here that the grave shock that he experienced tells upon him the most . 
As there are no relations at all , Jonathan will have to be chief mourner . 
I shall try to run over to see you , dearest , if only for a few minutes . 
Forgive me for troubling you . 
With all blessings , Your loving Mina Harker DR . 
Only resolution and habit can let me make an entry tonight . 
And he has been flapping those grim wings to some purpose of late , Lucy's mother and Arthur's father , and now . 
Let me get on with my work . 
I duly relieved Van Helsing in his watch over Lucy . 
We wanted Arthur to go to rest also , but he refused at first . 
Van Helsing was very kind to him . 
Come , my child , he said . 
You are sick and weak , and have had much sorrow and much mental pain , as well as that tax on your strength that we know of . 
You must not be alone , for to be alone is to be full of fears and alarms . 
Come to the drawing room , where there is a big fire , and there are two sofas . 
Arthur went off with him , casting back a longing look on Lucy's face , which lay in her pillow , almost whiter than the lawn . 
She lay quite still , and I looked around the room to see that all was as it should be . 
I could see that the Professor had carried out in this room , as in the other , his purpose of using the garlic . 
Lucy was breathing somewhat stertorously , and her face was at its worst , for the open mouth showed the pale gums . 
Her teeth , in the dim , uncertain light , seemed longer and sharper than they had been in the morning . 
In particular , by some trick of the light , the canine teeth looked longer and sharper than the rest . 
I sat down beside her , and presently she moved uneasily . 
At the same moment there came a sort of dull flapping or buffeting at the window . 
I went over to it softly , and peeped out by the corner of the blind . 
When I came back to my seat , I found that Lucy had moved slightly , and had torn away the garlic flowers from her throat . 
I replaced them as well as I could , and sat watching her . 
Presently she woke , and I gave her food , as Van Helsing had prescribed . 
She took but a little , and that languidly . 
There did not seem to be with her now the unconscious struggle for life and strength that had hitherto so marked her illness . 
It struck me as curious that the moment she became conscious she pressed the garlic flowers close to her . 
At six o'clock Van Helsing came to relieve me . 
Arthur had then fallen into a doze , and he mercifully let him sleep on . 
When he saw Lucy's face I could hear the sissing indraw of breath , and he said to me in a sharp whisper . 
I want light ! Then he bent down , and , with his face almost touching Lucy's , examined her carefully . 
He removed the flowers and lifted the silk handkerchief from her throat . 
As he did so he started back and I could hear his ejaculation , Mein Gott ! as it was smothered in his throat . 
I bent over and looked , too , and as I noticed some queer chill came over me . 
The wounds on the throat had absolutely disappeared . 
For fully five minutes Van Helsing stood looking at her , with his face at its sternest . 
Then he turned to me and said calmly , She is dying . 
It will not be long now . 
It will be much difference , mark me , whether she dies conscious or in her sleep . 
Wake that poor boy , and let him come and see the last . 
He trusts us , and we have promised him . 
I went to the dining room and waked him . 
He was dazed for a moment , but when he saw the sunlight streaming in through the edges of the shutters he thought he was late , and expressed his fear . 
I assured him that Lucy was still asleep , but told him as gently as i could that both Van Helsing and I feared that the end was near . 
I took him by the hand and raised him up . 
Come , I said , my dear old fellow , summon all your fortitude . 
It will be best and easiest for her . 
When we came into Lucy's room I could see that Van Helsing had , with his usual forethought , been putting matters straight and making everything look as pleasing as possible . 
He had even brushed Lucy's hair , so that it lay on the pillow in its usual sunny ripples . 
No , he whispered , not yet ! Hold her hand , it will comfort her more . 
So Arthur took her hand and knelt beside her , and she looked her best , with all the soft lines matching the angelic beauty of her eyes . 
Then gradually her eyes closed , and she sank to sleep . 
For a little bit her breast heaved softly , and her breath came and went like a tired child's . 
And then insensibly there came the strange change which I had noticed in the night . 
Her breathing grew stertorous , the mouth opened , and the pale gums , drawn back , made the teeth look longer and sharper than ever . 
Not on your life ! he said , not for your living soul and hers ! And he stood between them like a lion at bay . 
I kept my eyes fixed on Lucy , as did Van Helsing , and we saw a spasm as of rage flit like a shadow over her face . 
The sharp teeth clamped together . 
Then her eyes closed , and she breathed heavily . 
Then he turned to Arthur , and said to him , Come , my child , take her hand in yours , and kiss her on the forehead , and only once . 
Their eyes met instead of their lips , and so they parted . 
Lucy's eyes closed , and Van Helsing , who had been watching closely , took Arthur's arm , and drew him away . 
And then Lucy's breathing became stertorous again , and all at once it ceased . 
It is all over , said Van Helsing . 
I went back to the room , and found Van Helsing looking at poor Lucy , and his face was sterner than eve . 
Some change had come over her body . 
Death had given back part of her beauty , for her brow and cheeks had recovered some of their flowing lines . 
Even the lips had lost their deadly pallor . 
It was as if the blood , no longer needed for the working of the heart , had gone to make the harshness of death as little rude as might be . 
We thought her dying whilst she slept , And sleeping when she died . 
I stood beside Van Helsing , and said , Ah well , poor girl , there is peace for her at last . 
It is the end ! He turned to me , and said with grave solemnity , Not so , alas ! Not so . 
It is only the beginning ! When I asked him what he meant , he only shook his head and answered , We can do nothing as yet . 
The funeral was arranged for the next succeeding day , so that Lucy and her mother might be buried together . 
I attended to all the ghastly formalities , and the urbane undertaker proved that his staff was afflicted , or blessed , with something of his own obsequious suavity . 
It's quite a privilege to attend on her . 
It's not too much to say that she will do credit to our establishment ! I noticed that Van Helsing never kept far away . 
This was possible from the disordered state of things in the household . 
Under the circumstances , Van Helsing and I took it upon ourselves to examine papers , etc . 
He insisted upon looking over Lucy's papers himself . 
He answered me , I know , I know . 
You forget that I am a lawyer as well as a doctor . 
But this is not altogether for the law . 
You knew that , when you avoided the coroner . 
I have more than him to avoid . 
There may be papers more , such as this . 
As he spoke he took from his pocket book the memorandum which had been in Lucy's breast , and which she had torn in her sleep . 
When you find anything of the solicitor who is for the late Mrs. Westenra , seal all her papers , and write him tonight . 
For me , I watch here in the room and in Miss Lucy's old room all night , and I myself search for what may be . 
It is not well that her very thoughts go into the hands of strangers . 
I went on with my part of the work , and in another half hour had found the name and address of Mrs. Westenra's solicitor and had written to him . 
All the poor lady's papers were in order . 
Explicit directions regarding the place of burial were given . 
Have you got what you looked for ? I asked . 
To which he replied , I did not look for any specific thing . 
I only hoped to find , and find I have , all that there was , only some letters and a few memoranda , and a diary new begun . 
But I have them here , and we shall for the present say nothing of them . 
I shall see that poor lad tomorrow evening , and , with his sanction , I shall use some . 
When we had finished the work in hand , he said to me , And now , friend John , I think we may to bed . 
We want sleep , both you and I , and rest to recuperate . 
Tomorrow we shall have much to do , but for the tonight there is no need of us . 
Alas ! Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy . 
The undertaker had certainly done his work well , for the room was turned into a small chapelle ardente . 
There was a wilderness of beautiful white flowers , and death was made as little repulsive as might be . 
The end of the winding sheet was laid over the face . 
When the Professor bent over and turned it gently back , we both started at the beauty before us . 
The tall wax candles showing a sufficient light to note it well . 
The Professor looked sternly grave . 
He had not loved her as I had , and there was no need for tears in his eyes . 
He said to me , Remain till I return , and left the room . 
Then he took from his neck , inside his collar , a little gold crucifix , and placed it over the mouth . 
He restored the sheet to its place , and we came away . 
I was undressing in my own room , when , with a premonitory tap at the door , he entered , and at once began to speak . 
Tomorrow I want you to bring me , before night , a set of post mortem knives . 
Must we make an autopsy ? I asked . 
I want to operate , but not what you think . 
Let me tell you now , but not a word to another . 
I want to cut off her head and take out her heart . 
I would like to do it tonight , but for Arthur I must not . 
He will be free after his father's funeral tomorrow , and he will want to see her , to see it . 
Then , when she is coffined ready for the next day , you and I shall come when all sleep . 
We shall unscrew the coffin lid , and shall do our operation , and then replace all , so that none know , save we alone . 
But why do it at all ? The girl is dead . 
If I could , I would take on myself the burden that you do bear . 
But there are things that you know not , but that you shall know , and bless me for knowing , though they are not pleasant things . 
You have for many years trust me . 
You have believe me weeks past , when there be things so strange that you might have well doubt . 
Believe me yet a little , friend John . 
If you trust me not , then I must tell what I think , and that is not perhaps well . 
Let us not be two , but one , that so we work to a good end . 
Will you not have faith in me ? I took his hand , and promised him . 
I held my door open as he went away , and watched him go to his room and close the door . 
Devotion is so rare , and we are so grateful to those who show it unasked to those we love . 
I must have slept long and soundly , for it was broad daylight when Van Helsing waked me by coming into my room . 
He came over to my bedside and said , You need not trouble about the knives . 
We shall not do it . 
Why not ? I asked . 
For his solemnity of the night before had greatly impressed me . 
Because , he said sternly , it is too late , or too early . 
See ! Here he held up the little golden crucifix . 
This was stolen in the night . 
Her punishment will surely come , but not through me . 
She knew not altogether what she did , and thus unknowing , she only stole . 
He went away on the word , leaving me with a new mystery to think of , a new puzzle to grapple with . 
The forenoon was a dreary time , but at noon the solicitor came , Mr. Marquand , of Wholeman , Sons , Marquand Lidderdale . 
He was very genial and very appreciative of what we had done , and took off our hands all cares as to details . 
During lunch he told us that Mrs. Westenra had for some time expected sudden death from her heart , and had put her affairs in absolute order . 
Indeed , we pressed the matter so far that we almost came into collision , for she asked us if we were or were not prepared to carry out her wishes . 
Of course , we had then no alternative but to accept . 
We were right in principle , and ninety nine times out of a hundred we should have proved , by the logic of events , the accuracy of our judgment . 
Frankly , however , I must admit that in this case any other form of disposition would have rendered impossible the carrying out of her wishes . 
In which case Lord Godalming , though so dear a friend , would have had no claim in the world . 
And the inheritors , being remote , would not be likely to abandon their just rights , for sentimental reasons regarding an entire stranger . 
I assure you , my dear sirs , I am rejoiced at the result , perfectly rejoiced . 
He did not remain long , but said he would look in later in the day and see Lord Godalming . 
His coming , however , had been a certain comfort to us , since it assured us that we should not have to dread hostile criticism as to any of our acts . 
Arthur was expected at five o'clock , so a little before that time we visited the death chamber . 
It was so in very truth , for now both mother and daughter lay in it . 
Poor fellow ! He looked desperately sad and broken . 
Even his stalwart manhood seemed to have shrunk somewhat under the strain of his much tried emotions . 
He had , I knew , been very genuinely and devotedly attached to his father , and to lose him , and at such a time , was a bitter blow to him . 
With me he was warm as ever , and to Van Helsing he was sweetly courteous . 
But I could not help seeing that there was some constraint with him . 
The professor noticed it too , and motioned me to bring him upstairs . 
She told me all about it , and there was no friend had a closer place in her heart than you . 
I don't know how to thank you for all you have done for her . 
I comforted him as well as I could . 
In such cases men do not need much expression . 
A grip of the hand , the tightening of an arm over the shoulder , a sob in unison , are expressions of sympathy dear to a man's heart . 
I stood still and silent till his sobs died away , and then I said softly to him , Come and look at her . 
Together we moved over to the bed , and I lifted the lawn from her face . 
God ! How beautiful she was . 
Every hour seemed to be enhancing her loveliness . 
It frightened and amazed me somewhat . 
And as for Arthur , he fell to trembling , and finally was shaken with doubt as with an ague . 
I seemed to quite do away with any doubt , and after kneeling beside the couch for a while and looking at her lovingly and long , he turned aside . 
He came away , fondly looking back over his shoulder at her as he came . 
When he came out of the room again I told him of Arthur's question , and he replied , I am not surprised . 
Just now I doubted for a moment myself ! We all dined together , and I could see that poor Art was trying to make the best of things . 
Van Helsing had been silent all dinner time , but when we had lit our cigars he said , Lord . 
, but Arthur interrupted him . 
No , no , not that , for God's sake ! Not yet at any rate . 
I did not mean to speak offensively . 
It is only because my loss is so recent . 
The Professor answered very sweetly , I only used that name because I was in doubt . 
I must not call you Mr. and I have grown to love you , yes , my dear boy , to love you , as Arthur . 
Arthur held out his hand , and took the old man's warmly . 
Call me what you will , he said . 
I hope I may always have the title of a friend . 
And let me say that I am at a loss for words to thank you for your goodness to my poor dear . 
He paused a moment , and went on , I know that she understood your goodness even better than I do . 
And if I was rude or in any way wanting at that time you acted so , you remember , the Professor nodded You must forgive me . 
And there may be more times when I shall want you to trust when you cannot , and may not , and must not yet understand . 
But the time will come when your trust shall be whole and complete in me , and when you shall understand as though the sunlight himself shone through . 
Then you shall bless me from first to last for your own sake , and for the sake of others , and for her dear sake to whom I swore to protect . 
And indeed , indeed , sir , said Arthur warmly . 
I shall in all ways trust you . 
I know and believe you have a very noble heart , and you are Jack's friend , and you were hers . 
You shall do what you like . 
The Professor cleared his throat a couple of times , as though about to speak , and finally said , May I ask you something now ? Certainly . 
You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her property ? No , poor dear . 
I never thought of it . 
And as it is all yours , you have a right to deal with it as you will . 
I want you to give me permission to read all Miss Lucy's papers and letters . 
Believe me , it is no idle curiosity . 
I have a motive of which , be sure , she would have approved . 
I have them all here . 
I took them before we knew that all was yours , so that no strange hand might touch them , no strange eye look through words into her soul . 
I shall keep them , if I may . 
Even you may not see them yet , but I shall keep them safe . 
No word shall be lost , and in the good time I shall give them back to you . 
Van Helsing , you may do what you will . 
I feel that in saying this I am doing what my dear one would have approved . 
I shall not trouble you with questions till the time comes . 
The old Professor stood up as he said solemnly , And you are right . 
There will be pain for us all , but it will not be all pain , nor will this pain be the last . 
We and you too , you most of all , dear boy , will have to pass through the bitter water before we reach the sweet . 
But we must be brave of heart and unselfish , and do our duty , and all will be well ! I slept on a sofa in Arthur's room that night . 
Van Helsing did not go to bed at all . 
In the train to Exeter . 
Some day he may ask me about it . 
I am rusty in my shorthand , see what unexpected prosperity does for us , so it may be as well to freshen it up again with an exercise anyhow . 
The service was very simple and very solemn . 
Jonathan and I stood hand in hand , and we felt that our best and dearest friend was gone from us . 
We came back to town quietly , taking a bus to Hyde Park Corner . 
Jonathan thought it would interest me to go into the Row for a while , so we sat down . 
But there were very few people there , and it was sad looking and desolate to see so many empty chairs . 
It made us think of the empty chair at home . 
So we got up and walked down Piccadilly . 
Jonathan was holding me by the arm , the way he used to in the old days before I went to school . 
I felt it very improper , for you can't go on for some years teaching etiquette and decorum to other girls without the pedantry of it biting into yourself a bit . 
But it was Jonathan , and he was my husband , and we didn't know anybody who saw us , and we didn't care if they did , so on we walked . 
So I turned to him quickly , and asked him what it was that disturbed him . 
He was looking at her so hard that he did not see either of us , and so I had a good view of him . 
His face was not a good face . 
It was hard , and cruel , and sensual , and big white teeth , that looked all the whiter because his lips were so red , were pointed like an animal's . 
Jonathan kept staring at him , till I was afraid he would notice . 
I feared he might take it ill , he looked so fierce and nasty . 
It is the man himself ! The poor dear was evidently terrified at something , very greatly terrified . 
I do believe that if he had not had me to lean on and to support him he would have sunk down . 
A man came out of the shop with a small parcel , and gave it to the lady , who then drove off . 
Th e dark man kept his eyes fixed on her , and when the carriage moved up Piccadilly he followed in the same direction , and hailed a hansom . 
Jonathan kept looking after him , and said , as if to himself , I believe it is the Count , but he has grown young . 
I drew away quietly , and he , holding my arm , came easily . 
We walked a little further , and then went in and sat for a while in the Green Park . 
It was a hot day for autumn , and there was a comfortable seat in a shady place . 
After a few minutes' staring at nothing , Jonathan's eyes closed , and he went quickly into a sleep , with his head on my shoulder . 
I thought it was the best thing for him , so did not disturb him . 
In about twenty minutes he woke up , and said to me quite cheerfully , Why , Mina , have I been asleep ! Oh , do forgive me for being so rude . 
Come , and we'll have a cup of tea somewhere . 
He had evidently forgotten all about the dark stranger , as in his illness he had forgotten all that this episode had reminded him of . 
I don't like this lapsing into forgetfulness . 
It may make or continue some injury to the brain . 
I must not ask him , for fear I shall do more harm than good , but I must somehow learn the facts of his journey abroad . 
The time is come , I fear , when I must open the parcel , and know what is written . 
Oh , Jonathan , you will , I know , forgive me if I do wrong , but it is for your own dear sake . 
A sad homecoming in every way , the house empty of the dear soul who was so good to us . 
Jonathan still pale and dizzy under a slight relapse of his malady , and now a telegram from Van Helsing , whoever he may be . 
You will be grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenra died five days ago , and that Lucy died the day before yesterday . 
They were both buried today . 
Arthur has gone back to Ring , and has taken Quincey Morris with him . 
If America can go on breeding men like that , she will be a power in the world indeed . 
Van Helsing is lying down , having a rest preparatory to his journey . 
He goes to Amsterdam tonight , but says he returns tomorrow night , that he only wants to make some arrangements which can only be made personally . 
He is to stop with me then , if he can . 
He says he has work to do in London which may take him some time . 
Poor old fellow ! I fear that the strain of the past week has broken down even his iron strength . 
All the time of the burial he was , I could see , putting some terrible restraint on himself . 
I could see Van Helsing's face grow white and purple by turns . 
Arthur was saying that he felt since then as if they two had been really married , and that she was his wife in the sight of God . 
None of us said a word of the other operations , and none of us ever shall . 
Arthur and Quincey went away together to the station , and Van Helsing and I came on here . 
The moment we were alone in the carriage he gave way to a regular fit of hysterics . 
He has denied to me since that it was hysterics , and insisted that it was only his sense of humor asserting itself under very terrible conditions . 
He laughed till he cried , and I had to draw down the blinds lest any one should see us and misjudge . 
And then he cried , till he laughed again , and laughed and cried together , just as a woman does . 
I tried to be stern with him , as one is to a woman under the circumstances , but it had no effect . 
His reply was in a way characteristic of him , for it was logical and forceful and mysterious . 
He said , Ah , you don't comprehend , friend John . 
Do not think that I am not sad , though I laugh . 
See , I have cried even when the laugh did choke me . 
But no more think that I am all sorry when I cry , for the laugh he come just the same . 
Keep it always with you that laughter who knock at your door and say , May I come in ? is not true laughter . 
No ! He is a king , and he come when and how he like . 
He ask no person , he choose no time of suitability . 
He say , I am here . 
Behold , in example I grieve my heart out for that so sweet young girl . 
I give my blood for her , though I am old and worn . 
I give my time , my skill , my sleep . 
I let my other sufferers want that she may have all . 
There , you know now why I love him so . 
Oh , friend John , it is a strange world , a sad world , a world full of miseries , and woes , and troubles . 
And yet when King Laugh come , he make them all dance to the tune he play . 
Bleeding hearts , and dry bones of the churchyard , and tears that burn as they fall , all dance together to the music that he make with that smileless mouth of him . 
And believe me , friend John , that he is good to come , and kind . 
Ah , we men and women are like ropes drawn tight with strain that pull us different ways . 
Then tears come , and like the rain on the ropes , they brace us up , until perhaps the strain become too great , and we break . 
But King Laugh he come like the sunshine , and he ease off the strain again , and we bear to go on with our labor , what it may be . 
I did not like to wound him by pretending not to see his idea , but as I did not yet understand the cause of his laughter , I asked him . 
Why , your expression makes it a harder puzzle than before . 
But even if the burial service was comic , what about poor Art and his trouble ? Why his heart was simply breaking . 
Said he not that the transfusion of his blood to her veins had made her truly his bride ? Yes , and it was a sweet and comforting idea for him . 
But there was a difficulty , friend John . 
I don't see where the joke comes in there either ! I said , and I did not feel particularly pleased with him for saying such things . 
He laid his hand on my arm , and said , Friend John , forgive me if I pain . 
I showed not my feeling to others when it would wound , but only to you , my old friend , whom I can trust . 
I was touched by the tenderness of his tone , and asked why . 
Because I know ! And now we are all scattered , and for many a long day loneliness will sit over our roofs with brooding wings . 
So I can finish this diary , and God only knows if I shall ever begin another . 
During the past two or three days several cases have occurred of young children straying from home or neglecting to return from their playing on the Heath . 
In all these cases the children were too young to give any properly intelligible account of themselves , but the consensus of their excuses is that they had been with a bloofer lady . 
It has always been late in the evening when they have been missed , and on two occasions the children have not been found until early in the following morning . 
This is the more natural as the favorite game of the little ones at present is luring each other away by wiles . 
A correspondent writes us that to see some of the tiny tots pretending to be the bloofer lady is supremely funny . 
Some of our caricaturists might , he says , take a lesson in the irony of grotesque by comparing the reality and the picture . 
It is only in accordance with general principles of human nature that the bloofer lady should be the popular role at these al fresco performances . 
Our correspondent naively says that even Ellen Terry could not be so winningly attractive as some of these grubby faced little children pretend , and even imagine themselves , to be . 
It has the same tiny wound in the throat as has been noticed in other cases . 
It was terribly weak , and looked quite emaciated . 
It too , when partially restored , had the common story to tell of being lured away by the bloofer lady . 
CHAPTER MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL September . 
Jonathan is better after a bad night . 
He will be away all day till late , for he said he could not lunch at home . 
My household work is done , so I shall take his foreign journal , and lock myself up in my room and read it . 
I hadn't the heart to write last night , that terrible record of Jonathan's upset me so . 
Poor dear ! How he must have suffered , whether it be true or only imagination . 
I wonder if there is any truth in it at all . 
He believes it all himself . 
I remember how on our wedding day he said Unless some solemn duty come upon me to go back to the bitter hours , asleep or awake , mad or sane . 
There seems to be through it all some thread of continuity . 
That fearful Count was coming to London . 
If it should be , and he came to London , with its teeming millions . 
There may be a solemn duty , and if it come we must not shrink from it . 
I shall get my typewriter this very hour and begin transcribing . 
Then we shall be ready for other eyes if required . 
LETTER , VAN HELSING TO MRS . 
Dear Madam , I pray you to pardon my writing , in that I am so far friend as that I sent to you sad news of Miss Lucy Westenra's death . 
By the kindness of Lord Godalming , I am empowered to read her letters and papers , for I am deeply concerned about certain matters vitally important . 
In them I find some letters from you , which show how great friends you were and how you love her . 
Oh , Madam Mina , by that love , I implore you , help me . 
It is for others' good that I ask , to redress great wrong , and to lift much and terrible troubles , that may be more great than you can know . 
May it be that I see you ? You can trust me . 
I am friend of Dr . 
John Seward and of Lord Godalming . 
I must keep it private for the present from all . 
I should come to Exeter to see you at once if you tell me I am privilege to come , and where and when . 
I implore your pardon , Madam . 
I have read your letters to poor Lucy , and know how good you are and how your husband suffer . 
So I pray you , if it may be , enlighten him not , least it may harm . 
Again your pardon , and forgive me . 
VAN HELSING TELEGRAM , MRS . 
HARKER TO VAN HELSING September . 
Come today by quarter past ten train if you can catch it . 
Can see you any time you call . 
WILHELMINA HARKER MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL September . 
I cannot help feeling terribly excited as the time draws near for the visit of Dr . 
That is the reason of his coming . 
It is concerning Lucy and her sleep walking , and not about Jonathan . 
Then I shall never know the real truth now ! How silly I am . 
That awful journal gets hold of my imagination and tinges everything with something of its own color . 
Of course it is about Lucy . 
That habit came back to the poor dear , and that awful night on the cliff must have made her ill . 
I had almost forgotten in my own affairs how ill she was afterwards . 
I hope I did right in not saying anything of it to Mrs. Westenra . 
I should never forgive myself if any act of mine , were it even a negative one , brought harm on poor dear Lucy . 
I hope too , Dr . 
Van Helsing will not blame me . 
I have had so much trouble and anxiety of late that I feel I cannot bear more just at present . 
I suppose a cry does us all good at times , clears the air as other rain does . 
I do hope the dear fellow will take care of himself , and that nothing will occur to upset him . 
It is two o'clock , and the doctor will be here soon now . 
I shall say nothing of Jonathan's journal unless he asks me . 
I am so glad I have typewritten out my own journal , so that , in case he asks about Lucy , I can hand it to him . 
It will save much questioning . 
He has come and gone . 
Oh , what a strange meeting , and how it all makes my head whirl round . 
I feel like one in a dream . 
Can it be all possible , or even a part of it ? If I had not read Jonathan's journal first , I should never have accepted even a possibility . 
Poor , poor , dear Jonathan ! How he must have suffered . 
Please the good God , all this may not upset him again . 
I shall try to save him from it . 
Van Helsing must be a good man as well as a clever one if he is Arthur's friend and Dr . 
Seward's , and if they brought him all the way from Holland to look after Lucy . 
I feel from having seen him that he is good and kind and of a noble nature . 
When he comes tomorrow I shall ask him about Jonathan . 
And then , please God , all this sorrow and anxiety may lead to a good end . 
I used to think I would like to practice interviewing . 
Here was a rare interview . 
I shall try to record it verbatim . 
It was half past two o'clock when the knock came . 
I took my courage a deux mains and waited . 
In a few minutes Mary opened the door , and announced Dr . 
The poise of the head strikes me at once as indicative of thought and power . 
The head is noble , well sized , broad , and large behind the ears . 
Big , dark blue eyes are set widely apart , and are quick and tender or stern with the man's moods . 
He said to me , Mrs. Harker , is it not ? I bowed assent . 
That was Miss Mina Murray ? Again I assented . 
It is Mina Murray that I came to see that was friend of that poor dear child Lucy Westenra . 
Madam Mina , it is on account of the dead that I come . 
Sir , I said , you could have no better claim on me than that you were a friend and helper of Lucy Westenra . 
And I held out my hand . 
He took it and said tenderly , Oh , Madam Mina , I know that the friend of that poor little girl must be good , but I had yet to learn . 
He finished his speech with a courtly bow . 
I asked him what it was that he wanted to see me about , so he at once began . 
I have read your letters to Miss Lucy . 
Forgive me , but I had to begin to inquire somewhere , and there was none to ask . 
I know that you were with her at Whitby . 
She sometimes kept a diary , you need not look surprised , Madam Mina . 
In great perplexity then I come to you , and ask you out of your so much kindness to tell me all of it that you can remember . 
I can tell you , I think , Dr . 
Van Helsing , all about it . 
Ah , then you have good memory for facts , for details ? It is not always so with young ladies . 
No , doctor , but I wrote it all down at the time . 
I can show it to you if you like . 
Oh , Madam Mina , I well be grateful . 
You will do me much favor . 
He took it with a grateful bow , and said , May I read it ? If you wish , I answered as demurely as I could . 
He opened it , and for an instant his face fell . 
Then he stood up and bowed . 
Oh , you so clever woman ! he said . 
I knew long that Mr. Jonathan was a man of much thankfulness , but see , his wife have all the good things . 
And will you not so much honor me and so help me as to read it for me ? Alas ! I know not the shorthand . 
By this time my little joke was over , and I was almost ashamed . 
So I took the typewritten copy from my work basket and handed it to him . 
Forgive me , I said . 
He took it and his eyes glistened . 
You are so good , he said . 
And may I read it now ? I may want to ask you some things when I have read . 
By all means , I said . 
read it over whilst I order lunch , and then you can ask me questions whilst we eat . 
When I came back , I found him walking hurriedly up and down the room , his face all ablaze with excitement . 
He rushed up to me and took me by both hands . 
Oh , Madam Mina , he said , how can I say what I owe to you ? This paper is as sunshine . 
It opens the gate to me . 
I am dazed , I am dazzled , with so much light , and yet clouds roll in behind the light every time . 
But that you do not , cannot comprehend . 
Oh , but I am grateful to you , you so clever woman . 
Madame , he said this very solemnly , if ever Abraham Van Helsing can do anything for you or yours , I trust you will let me know . 
There are darknesses in life , and there are lights . 
You are one of the lights . 
You will have a happy life and a good life , and your husband will be blessed in you . 
But , doctor , you praise me too much , and you do not know me . 
And we men who wish to know have in us something of angels' eyes . 
Your husband is noble nature , and you are noble too , for you trust , and trust cannot be where there is mean nature . 
And your husband , tell me of him . 
He interrupted , Oh , yes . 
I have read your last two letters . 
I went on , I suppose this upset him , for when we were in town on Thursday last he had a sort of shock . 
A shock , and after brain fever so soon ! That is not good . 
What kind of shock was it ? He thought he saw some one who recalled something terrible , something which led to his brain fever . 
And here the whole thing seemed to overwhelm me in a rush . 
I suppose I was hysterical , for I threw myself on my knees and held up my hands to him , and implored him to make my husband well again . 
He took my hands and raised me up , and made me sit on the sofa , and sat by me . 
I am glad , glad , that I may here be of some use to you . 
For if your husband suffer , he suffer within the range of my study and experience . 
I promise you that I will gladly do all for him that I can , all to make his life strong and manly , and your life a happy one . 
You are overwrought and perhaps over anxious . 
Husband Jonathan would not like to see you so pale , and what he like not where he love , is not to his good . 
Therefore for his sake you must eat and smile . 
You have told me about Lucy , and so now we shall not speak of it , lest it distress . 
And then too , you will tell me of husband Jonathan's trouble so far as you can , but not yet . 
You must eat now , afterwards you shall tell me all . 
After lunch , when we went back to the drawing room , he said to me , And now tell me all about him . 
But he was so sweet and kind , and he had promised to help , and I trusted him , so I said , Dr . 
Van Helsing , what I have to tell you is so queer that you must not laugh at me or at my husband . 
I have been since yesterday in a sort of fever of doubt . 
You must be kind to me , and not think me foolish that I have even half believed some very strange things . 
I have learned not to think little of any one's belief , no matter how strange it may be . 
Thank you , thank you a thousand times ! You have taken a weight off my mind . 
If you will let me , I shall give you a paper to read . 
It is long , but I have typewritten it out . 
It will tell you my trouble and Jonathan's . 
It is the copy of his journal when abroad , and all that happened . 
I dare not say anything of it . 
You will read for yourself and judge . 
And then when I see you , perhaps , you will be very kind and tell me what you think . 
I promise , he said as I gave him the papers . 
I shall in the morning , as soon as I can , come to see you and your husband , if I may . 
Jonathan will be here at half past eleven , and you must come to lunch with us and see him then . 
You could catch the quick train , which will leave you at Paddington before eight . 
So he took the papers with him and went away , and I sit here thinking , thinking I don't know what . 
LETTER , VAN HELSING TO MRS . 
HARKER September , o'clock Dear Madam Mina , I have read your husband's so wonderful diary . 
You may sleep without doubt . 
Strange and terrible as it is , it is true ! I will pledge my life on it . 
It may be worse for others , but for him and you there is no dread . 
His brain and his heart are all right , this I swear , before I have even seen him , so be at rest . 
I shall have much to ask him of other things . 
Yours the most faithful , Abraham Van Helsing . 
HARKER TO VAN HELSING September , P. M. My dear Dr . 
Van Helsing , A thousand thanks for your kind letter , which has taken a great weight off my mind . 
Do not answer this , as I shall take it that , if I do not hear , you will come to breakfast . 
Believe me , Your faithful and grateful friend , Mina Harker . 
I thought never to write in this diary again , but the time has come . 
She showed me in the doctor's letter that all I wrote down was true . 
It seems to have made a new man of me . 
It was the doubt as to the reality of the whole thing that knocked me over . 
I felt impotent , and in the dark , and distrustful . 
But , now that I know , I am not afraid , even of the Count . 
He has succeeded after all , then , in his design in getting to London , and it was he I saw . 
He has got younger , and how ? Van Helsing is the man to unmask him and hunt him out , if he is anything like what Mina says . 
We sat late , and talked it over . 
Mina is dressing , and I shall call at the hotel in a few minutes and bring him over . 
He was , I think , surprised to see me . 
It was so funny to hear my wife called Madam Mina' by this kindly , strong faced old man . 
I smiled , and said , I was ill , I have had a shock , but you have cured me already . 
And how ? By your letter to Mina last night . 
I was in doubt , and then everything took a hue of unreality , and I did not know what to trust , even the evidence of my own senses . 
Not knowing what to trust , I did not know what to do , and so had only to keep on working in what had hitherto been the groove of my life . 
The groove ceased to avail me , and I mistrusted myself . 
Doctor , you don't know what it is to doubt everything , even yourself . 
No , you don't , you couldn't with eyebrows like yours . 
He seemed pleased , and laughed as he said , So ! You are a physiognomist . 
I learn more here with each hour . 
I would listen to him go on praising Mina for a day , so I simply nodded and stood silent . 
So true , so sweet , so noble , so little an egoist , and that , let me tell you , is much in this age , so sceptical and selfish . 
You will give me your hand , will you not ? And let us be friends for all our lives . 
We shook hands , and he was so earnest and so kind that it made me quite choky . 
and now , he said , may I ask you for some more help ? I have a great task to do , and at the beginning it is to know . 
You can help me here . 
Can you tell me what went before your going to Transylvania ? Later on I may ask more help , and of a different kind , but at first this will do . 
Look here , Sir , I said , does what you have to do concern the Count ? It does , he said solemnly . 
Then I am with you heart and soul . 
As you go by the train , you will not have time to read them , but I shall get the bundle of papers . 
You can take them with you and read them in the train . 
After breakfast I saw him to the station . 
When we were parting he said , Perhaps you will come to town if I send for you , and take Madam Mina too . 
We shall both come when you will , I said . 
His eyes suddenly seemed to catch something in one of them , The Westminster Gazette , I knew it by the color , and he grew quite white . 
He read something intently , groaning to himself , Mein Gott ! Mein Gott ! So soon ! So soon ! I do not think he remembered me at the moment . 
Just then the whistle blew , and the train moved off . 
This recalled him to himself , and he leaned out of the window and waved his hand , calling out , Love to Madam Mina . 
I shall write so soon as ever I can . 
Truly there is no such thing as finality . 
Not a week since I said Finis , and yet here I am starting fresh again , or rather going on with the record . 
Until this afternoon I had no cause to think of what is done . 
Renfield had become , to all intents , as sane as he ever was . 
He was already well ahead with his fly business , and he had just started in the spider line also , so he had not been of any trouble to me . 
I had a letter from Arthur , written on Sunday , and from it I gather that he is bearing up wonderfully well . 
Quincey Morris is with him , and that is much of a help , for he himself is a bubbling well of good spirits . 
Everything is , however , now reopened , and what is to be the end God only knows . 
I have an idea that Van Helsing thinks he knows , too , but he will only let out enough at a time to whet curiosity . 
He went to Exeter yesterday , and stayed there all night . 
Today he came back , and almost bounded into the room at about half past five o'clock , and thrust last night's Westminster Gazette into my hand . 
What do you think of that ? he asked as he stood back and folded his arms . 
It did not convey much to me , until I reached a passage where it described small puncture wounds on their throats . 
An idea struck me , and I looked up . 
It is like poor Lucy's . 
And what do you make of it ? Simply that there is some cause in common . 
Whatever it was that injured her has injured them . 
I did not quite understand his answer . 
That is true indirectly , but not directly . 
How do you mean , Professor ? I asked . 
Never , even in the midst of our despair about poor Lucy , had he looked more stern . 
Tell me ! I said . 
I can hazard no opinion . 
I do not know what to think , and I have no data on which to found a conjecture . 
And how was the blood lost or wasted ? I shook my head . 
He stepped over and sat down beside me , and went on , You are a clever man , friend John . 
You reason well , and your wit is bold , but you are too prejudiced . 
You do not let your eyes see nor your ears hear , and that which is outside your daily life is not of account to you . 
Ah , it is the fault of our science that it wants to explain all , and if it explain not , then it says there is nothing to explain . 
I suppose now you do not believe in corporeal transference . 
No ? Nor in materialization . 
No ? Nor in astral bodies . 
No ? Nor in the reading of thought . 
No ? Nor in hypnotism . 
Charcot has proved that pretty well . 
He smiled as he went on , Then you are satisfied as to it . 
There are always mysteries in life . 
He so crowded on my mind his list of nature's eccentricities and possible impossibilities that my imagination was getting fired . 
I had a dim idea that he was teaching me some lesson , as long ago he used to do in his study at Amsterdam . 
But he used them to tell me the thing , so that I could have the object of thought in mind all the time . 
But now I was without his help , yet I wanted to follow him , so I said , Professor , let me be your pet student again . 
Tell me the thesis , so that I may apply your knowledge as you go on . 
At present I am going in my mind from point to point as a madman , and not a sane one , follows an idea . 
I feel like a novice lumbering through a bog in a midst , jumping from one tussock to another in the mere blind effort to move on without knowing where I am going . 
That is a good image , he said . 
Well , I shall tell you . 
My thesis is this , I want you to believe . 
To believe what ? To believe in things that you cannot . 
I heard once of an American who so defined faith , that faculty which enables us to believe things which we know to be untrue . 
For one , I follow that man . 
We get the small truth first . 
Good ! We keep him , and we value him , but all the same we must not let him think himself all the truth in the universe . 
Then you want me not to let some previous conviction inure the receptivity of my mind with regard to some strange matter . 
Do I read your lesson aright ? Ah , you are my favorite pupil still . 
It is worth to teach you . 
Now that you are willing to understand , you have taken the first step to understand . 
You think then that those so small holes in the children's throats were made by the same that made the holes in Miss Lucy ? I suppose so . 
He stood up and said solemnly , Then you are wrong . 
Oh , would it were so ! But alas ! No. It is worse , far , far worse . 
In God's name , Professor Van Helsing , what do you mean ? I cried . 
He threw himself with a despairing gesture into a chair , and placed his elbows on the table , covering his face with his hands as he spoke . 
They were made by Miss Lucy ! CHAPTER DR . 
For a while sheer anger mastered me . 
It was as if he had during her life struck Lucy on the face . 
I smote the table hard and rose up as I said to him , Dr . 
Van Helsing , are you mad ? He raised his head and looked at me , and somehow the tenderness of his face calmed me at once . 
Would I were ! he said . 
Madness were easy to bear compared with truth like this . 
But even yet I do not expect you to believe . 
It is so hard to accept at once any abstract truth , that we may doubt such to be possible when we have always believed the no' of it . 
It is more hard still to accept so sad a concrete truth , and of such a one as Miss Lucy . 
Tonight I go to prove it . 
Dare you come with me ? This staggered me . 
A man does not like to prove such a truth , Byron excepted from the catagory , jealousy . 
And prove the very truth he most abhorred . 
He saw my hesitation , and spoke , The logic is simple , no madman's logic this time , jumping from tussock to tussock in a misty bog . 
If it not be true , then proof will be relief . 
At worst it will not harm . 
If it be true ! Ah , there is the dread . 
Yet every dread should help my cause , for in it is some need of belief . 
Come , I tell you what I propose . 
First , that we go off now and see that child in the hospital . 
Vincent , of the North Hospital , where the papers say the child is , is a friend of mine , and I think of yours since you were in class at Amsterdam . 
He will let two scientists see his case , if he will not let two friends . 
We shall tell him nothing , but only that we wish to learn . 
And then ? He took a key from his pocket and held it up . 
And then we spend the night , you and I , in the churchyard where Lucy lies . 
This is the key that lock the tomb . 
I had it from the coffin man to give to Arthur . 
My heart sank within me , for I felt that there was some fearful ordeal before us . 
I could do nothing , however , so I plucked up what heart I could and said that we had better hasten , as the afternoon was passing . 
We found the child awake . 
It had had a sleep and taken some food , and altogether was going on well . 
Dr , Vincent took the bandage from its throat , and showed us the punctures . 
There was no mistaking the similarity to those which had been on Lucy's throat . 
They were smaller , and the edges looked fresher , that was all . 
Out of so many harmless ones , he said , there may be some wild specimen from the South of a more malignant species . 
These things do occur , you , know . 
Only ten days ago a wolf got out , and was , I believe , traced up in this direction . 
Even this poor little mite , when he woke up today , asked the nurse if he might go away . 
When she asked him why he wanted to go , he said he wanted to play with the bloofer lady' . 
I hope , said Van Helsing , that when you are sending the child home you will caution its parents to keep strict watch over it . 
These fancies to stray are most dangerous , and if the child were to remain out another night , it would probably be fatal . 
But in any case I suppose you will not let it away for some days ? Certainly not , not for a week at least , longer if the wound is not healed . 
Our visit to the hospital took more time than we had reckoned on , and the sun had dipped before we came out . 
When Van Helsing saw how dark it was , he said , There is not hurry . 
It is more late than I thought . 
Come , let us seek somewhere that we may eat , and then we shall go on our way . 
We dined at Jack Straw's Castle' along with a little crowd of bicyclists and others who were genially noisy . 
About ten o'clock we started from the inn . 
It was then very dark , and the scattered lamps made the darkness greater when we were once outside their individual radius . 
The Professor had evidently noted the road we were to go , for he went on unhesitatingly , but , as for me , I was in quite a mixup as to locality . 
As we went further , we met fewer and fewer people , till at last we were somewhat surprised when we met even the patrol of horse police going their usual suburban round . 
At last we reached the wall of the churchyard , which we climbed over . 
With some little difficulty , for it was very dark , and the whole place seemed so strange to us , we found the Westenra tomb . 
The Professor took the key , opened the creaky door , and standing back , politely , but quite unconsciously , motioned me to precede him . 
There was a delicious irony in the offer , in the courtliness of giving preference on such a ghastly occasion . 
My companion followed me quickly , and cautiously drew the door to , after carefully ascertaining that the lock was a falling , and not a spring one . 
In the latter case we should have been in a bad plight . 
Then he fumbled in his bag , and taking out a matchbox and a piece of candle , proceeded to make a light . 
It conveyed irresistibly the idea that life , animal life , was not the only thing which could pass away . 
Van Helsing went about his work systematically . 
Another search in his bag , and he took out a turnscrew . 
What are you going to do ? I asked . 
You shall yet be convinced . 
Straightway he began taking out the screws , and finally lifted off the lid , showing the casing of lead beneath . 
The sight was almost too much for me . 
It seemed to be as much an affront to the dead as it would have been to have stripped off her clothing in her sleep whilst living . 
I actually took hold of his hand to stop him . 
He only said , You shall see , and again fumbling in his bag took out a tiny fret saw . 
I had expected a rush of gas from the week old corpse . 
We doctors , who have had to study our dangers , have to become accustomed to such things , and I drew back towards the door . 
But the Professor never stopped for a moment . 
He sawed down a couple of feet along one side of the lead coffin , and then across , and down the other side . 
Taking the edge of the loose flange , he bent it back towards the foot of the coffin , and holding up the candle into the aperture , motioned to me to look . 
I drew near and looked . 
It was certainly a surprise to me , and gave me a considerable shock , but Van Helsing was unmoved . 
He was now more sure than ever of his ground , and so emboldened to proceed in his task . 
Are you satisfied now , friend John ? he asked . 
And what is that , friend John ? That it is not there . 
That is good logic , he said , so far as it goes . 
But how do you , how can you , account for it not being there ? Perhaps a body snatcher , I suggested . 
Some of the undertaker's people may have stolen it . 
I felt that I was speaking folly , and yet it was the only real cause which I could suggest . 
Ah well ! he said , we must have more proof . 
He put on the coffin lid again , gathered up all his things and placed them in the bag , blew out the light , and placed the candle also in the bag . 
We opened the door , and went out . 
Behind us he closed the door and locked it . 
He handed me the key , saying , Will you keep it ? You had better be assured . 
I laughed , it was not a very cheerful laugh , I am bound to say , as I motioned him to keep it . 
A key is nothing , I said , thee are many duplicates , and anyhow it is not difficult to pick a lock of this kind . 
He said nothing , but put the key in his pocket . 
Then he told me to watch at one side of the churchyard whilst he would watch at the other . 
I took up my place behind a yew tree , and I saw his dark figure move until the intervening headstones and trees hid it from my sight . 
It was a lonely vigil . 
Just after I had taken my place I heard a distant clock strike twelve , and in time came one and two . 
I was chilled and unnerved , and angry with the Professor for taking me on such an errand and with myself for coming . 
I was too cold and too sleepy to be keenly observant , and not sleepy enough to betray my trust , so altogether I had a dreary , miserable time . 
Suddenly , as I turned round , I thought I saw something like a white streak , moving between two dark yew trees at the side of the churchyard farthest from the tomb . 
At the same time a dark mass moved from the Professor's side of the ground , and hurriedly went towards it . 
Then I too moved , but I had to go round headstones and railed off tombs , and I stumbled over graves . 
The sky was overcast , and somewhere far off an early cock crew . 
A little ways off , beyond a line of scattered juniper trees , which marked the pathway to the church , a white dim figure flitted in the direction of the tomb . 
The tomb itself was hidden by trees , and I could not see where the figure had disappeared . 
I heard the rustle of actual movement where I had first seen the white figure , and coming over , found the Professor holding in his arms a tiny child . 
When he saw me he held it out to me , and said , Are you satisfied now ? No , I said , in a way that I felt was aggressive . 
When we had got some little distance away , we went into a clump of trees , and struck a match , and looked at the child's throat . 
It was without a scratch or scar of any kind . 
Was I right ? I asked triumphantly . 
We were just in time , said the Professor thankfully . 
We had now to decide what we were to do with the child , and so consulted about it . 
If we were to take it to a police station we should have to give some account of our movements during the night . 
At least , we should have had to make some statement as to how we had come to find the child . 
So finally we decided that we would take it to the Heath , and when we heard a policeman coming , would leave it where he could not fail to find it . 
We would then seek our way home as quickly as we could . 
We heard his exclamation of astonishment , and then we went away silently . 
By good chance we got a cab near the Spainiards , and drove to town . 
I cannot sleep , so I make this entry . 
But I must try to get a few hours' sleep , as Van Helsing is to call for me at noon . 
He insists that I go with him on another expedition . 
It was two o'clock before we found a suitable opportunity for our attempt . 
We knew that we were safe till morning did we desire it , but the Professor told me that we should not want more than an hour at most . 
Besides , I felt it was all so useless . 
I shrugged my shoulders , however , and rested silent , for Van Helsing had a way of going on his own road , no matter who remonstrated . 
He took the key , opened the vault , and again courteously motioned me to precede . 
The place was not so gruesome as last night , but oh , how unutterably mean looking when the sunshine streamed in . 
Van Helsing walked over to Lucy's coffin , and I followed . 
He bent over and again forced back the leaden flange , and a shock of surprise and dismay shot through me . 
There lay Lucy , seemingly just as we had seen her the night before her funeral . 
She was , if possible , more radiantly beautiful than ever , and I could not believe that she was dead . 
The lips were red , nay redder than before , and on the cheeks was a delicate bloom . 
Is this a juggle ? I said to him . 
See , he went on , they are even sharper than before . 
With this and this , and he touched one of the canine teeth and that below it , the little children can be bitten . 
Are you of belief now , friend John ? Once more argumentative hostility woke within me . 
I could not accept such an overwhelming idea as he suggested . 
So , with an attempt to argue of which I was even at the moment ashamed , I said , She may have been placed here since last night . 
Indeed ? That is so , and by whom ? I do not know . 
And yet she has been dead one week . 
Most peoples in that time would not look so . 
I had no answer for this , so was silent . 
Van Helsing did not seem to notice my silence . 
At any rate , he showed neither chagrin nor triumph . 
He was looking intently at the face of the dead woman , raising the eyelids and looking at the eyes , and once more opening the lips and examining the teeth . 
Then he turned to me and said , Here , there is one thing which is different from all recorded . 
Here is some dual life that is not as the common . 
She was bitten by the vampire when she was in a trance , sleep walking , oh , you start . 
You do not know that , friend John , but you shall know it later , and in trance could he best come to take more blood . 
In trance she dies , and in trance she is UnDead , too . 
So it is that she differ from all other . 
There is no malign there , see , and so it make hard that I must kill her in her sleep . 
This turned my blood cold , and it began to dawn upon me that I was accepting Van Helsing's theories . 
I am willing to accept . 
How will you do this bloody work ? I shall cut off her head and fill her mouth with garlic , and I shall drive a stake through her body . 
It made me shudder to think of so mutilating the body of the woman whom I had loved . 
And yet the feeling was not so strong as I had expected . 
I was , in fact , beginning to shudder at the presence of this being , this UnDead , as Van Helsing called it , and to loathe it . 
Is it possible that love is all subjective , or all objective ? I waited a considerable time for Van Helsing to begin , but he stood as if wrapped in thought . 
Presently he closed the catch of his bag with a snap , and said , I have been thinking , and have made up my mind as to what is best . 
If I did simply follow my inclining I would do now , at this moment , what is to be done . 
But there are other things to follow , and things that are thousand times more difficult in that them we do not know . 
She have yet no life taken , though that is of time , and to act now would be to take danger from her forever . 
He will then argue back that it is we , mistaken ones , that have killed her by our ideas , and so he will be much unhappy always . 
Yet he never can be sure , and that is the worst of all . 
No ! I told him once , and since then I learn much . 
Now , since I know it is all true , a hundred thousand times more do I know that he must pass through the bitter waters to reach the sweet . 
My mind is made up . 
You return home for tonight to your asylum , and see that all be well . 
As for me , I shall spend the night here in this churchyard in my own way . 
Tomorrow night you will come to me to the Berkeley Hotel at ten of the clock . 
I shall send for Arthur to come too , and also that so fine young man of America that gave his blood . 
Later we shall all have work to do . 
I come with you so far as Piccadilly and there dine , for I must be back here before the sun set . 
So we locked the tomb and came away , and got over the wall of the churchyard , which was not much of a task , and drove back to Piccadilly . 
September Friend John , I write this in case anything should happen . 
I go alone to watch in that churchyard . 
It pleases me that the UnDead , Miss Lucy , shall not leave tonight , that so on the morrow night she may be more eager . 
Therefore I shall fix some things she like not , garlic and a crucifix , and so seal up the door of the tomb . 
She is young as UnDead , and will heed . 
Moreover , these are only to prevent her coming out . 
They may not prevail on her wanting to get in , for then the UnDead is desperate , and must find the line of least resistance , whatsoever it may be . 
I shall be at hand all the night from sunset till after sunrise , and if there be aught that may be learned I shall learn it . 
He have always the strength in his hand of twenty men , even we four who gave our strength to Miss Lucy it also is all to him . 
Besides , he can summon his wolf and I know not what . 
So if it be that he came thither on this night he shall find me . 
But none other shall , until it be too late . 
But it may be that he will not attempt the place . 
There is no reason why he should . 
His hunting ground is more full of game than the churchyard where the UnDead woman sleeps , and the one old man watch . 
Therefore I write this in case . 
If it be so , farewell . 
It is wonderful what a good night's sleep will do for one . 
Yesterday I was almost willing to accept Van Helsing's monstrous ideas , but now they seem to start out lurid before me as outrages on common sense . 
I have no doubt that he believes it all . 
I wonder if his mind can have become in any way unhinged . 
Surely there must be some rational explanation of all these mysterious things . 
I may get some light on the mystery . 
Last night , at a little before ten o'clock , Arthur and Quincey came into Van Helsing's room . 
He told us all what he wanted us to do , but especially addressing himself to Arthur , as if all our wills were centered in his . 
He began by saying that he hoped we would all come with him too , for , he said , there is a grave duty to be done there . 
You were doubtless surprised at my letter ? This query was directly addressed to Lord Godalming . 
It rather upset me for a bit . 
There has been so much trouble around my house of late that I could do without any more . 
I have been curious , too , as to what you mean . 
Me too , said Quincey Morris laconically . 
It was evident that he recognized my return to my old doubting frame of mind without my saying a word . 
Then , turning to the other two , he said with intense gravity , I want your permission to do what I think good this night . 
It is , I know , much to ask , and when you know what it is I propose to do you will know , and only then how much . 
That's frank anyhow , broke in Quincey . 
I'll answer for the Professor . 
I don't quite see his drift , but I swear he's honest , and that's good enough for me . 
I thank you , Sir , said Van Helsing proudly . 
I have done myself the honor of counting you one trusting friend , and such endorsement is dear to me . 
He held out a hand , which Quincey took . 
Then Arthur spoke out , Dr . 
Arthur's face fell as he said in an amazed sort of way , Where poor Lucy is buried ? The Professor bowed . 
Arthur went on , And when there ? To enter the tomb ! Arthur stood up . 
Professor , are you in earnest , or is it some monstrous joke ? Pardon me , I see that you are in earnest . 
He sat down again , but I could see that he sat firmly and proudly , as one who is on his dignity . 
There was silence until he asked again , And when in the tomb ? To open the coffin . 
This is too much ! he said , angrily rising again . 
I am willing to be patient in all things that are reasonable , but in this , this desecration of the grave , of one who . 
He fairly choked with indignation . 
The Professor looked pityingly at him . 
If I could spare you one pang , my poor friend , he said , God knows I would . 
And then you will at least know the limit of my purpose . 
Shall I go on ? That's fair enough , broke in Morris . 
After a pause Van Helsing went on , evidently with an effort , Miss Lucy is dead , is it not so ? Yes ! Then there can be no wrong to her . 
But if she be not dead . 
Arthur jumped to his feet , Good God ! he cried . 
What do you mean ? Has there been any mistake , has she been buried alive ? He groaned in anguish that not even hope could soften . 
I did not say she was alive , my child . 
I did not think it . 
I go no further than to say that she might be UnDead . 
Believe me , we are now on the verge of one . 
But I have not done . 
May I cut off the head of dead Miss Lucy ? Heavens and earth , no ! cried Arthur in a storm of passion . 
Not for the wide world will I consent to any mutilation of her dead body . 
Van Helsing , you try me too far . 
I shall not give my consent to anything you do . 
And then , to follow your Lordship's wishes I shall hold myself at your disposal to render an account to you , when and where you will . 
His voice broke a little , and he went on with a voice full of pity . 
But I beseech you , do not go forth in anger with me . 
In a long life of acts which were often not pleasant to do , and which sometimes did wring my heart , I have never had so heavy a task as now . 
For her , I am ashamed to say so much , but I say it in kindness , I gave what you gave , the blood of my veins . 
I gave it , I who was not , like you , her lover , but only her physician and her friend . 
He said this with a very grave , sweet pride , and Arthur was much affected by it . 
CHAPTER DR SEWARD'S DIARY cont . 
It was just a quarter before twelve o'clock when we got into the churchyard over the low wall . 
The night was dark with occasional gleams of moonlight between the dents of the heavy clouds that scudded across the sky . 
We all kept somehow close together , with Van Helsing slightly in front as he led the way . 
I took it that the very mystery of the proceeding was in some way a counteractant to his grief . 
The Professor unlocked the door , and seeing a natural hesitation amongst us for various reasons , solved the difficulty by entering first himself . 
The rest of us followed , and he closed the door . 
He then lit a dark lantern and pointed to a coffin . 
Van Helsing said to me , You were with me here yesterday . 
Was the body of Miss Lucy in that coffin ? It was . 
The Professor turned to the rest saying , You hear , and yet there is no one who does not believe with me . 
He took his screwdriver and again took off the lid of the coffin . 
Arthur looked on , very pale but silent . 
When the lid was removed he stepped forward . 
He evidently did not know that there was a leaden coffin , or at any rate , had not thought of it . 
Van Helsing forced back the leaden flange , and we all looked in and recoiled . 
The coffin was empty ! For several minutes no one spoke a word . 
The silence was broken by Quincey Morris , Professor , I answered for you . 
Your word is all I want . 
I wouldn't ask such a thing ordinarily , I wouldn't so dishonor you as to imply a doubt , but this is a mystery that goes beyond any honor or dishonor . 
Is this your doing ? I swear to you by all that I hold sacred that I have not removed or touched her . 
Two nights ago my friend Seward and I came here , with good purpose , believe me . 
I opened that coffin , which was then sealed up , and we found it as now , empty . 
We then waited , and saw something white come through the trees . 
The next day we came here in daytime and she lay there . 
Did she not , friend John ? Yes . 
That night we were just in time . 
One more so small child was missing , and we find it , thank God , unharmed amongst the graves . 
Yesterday I came here before sundown , for at sundown the UnDead can move . 
I waited here all night till the sun rose , but I saw nothing . 
It was most probable that it was because I had laid over the clamps of those doors garlic , which the UnDead cannot bear , and other things which they shun . 
Last night there was no exodus , so tonight before the sundown I took away my garlic and other things . 
And so it is we find this coffin empty . 
So far there is much that is strange . 
Wait you with me outside , unseen and unheard , and things much stranger are yet to be . 
So , here he shut the dark slide of his lantern , now to the outside . 
He opened the door , and we filed out , he coming last and locking the door behind him . 
Oh ! But it seemed fresh and pure in the night air after the terror of that vault . 
How sweet it was to breathe the fresh air , that had no taint of death and decay . 
How humanizing to see the red lighting of the sky beyond the hill , and to hear far away the muffled roar that marks the life of a great city . 
Each in his own way was solemn and overcome . 
Arthur was silent , and was , I could see , striving to grasp the purpose and the inner meaning of the mystery . 
I was myself tolerably patient , and half inclined again to throw aside doubt and to accept Van Helsing's conclusions . 
Quincey Morris was phlegmatic in the way of a man who accepts all things , and accepts them in the spirit of cool bravery , with hazard of all he has at stake . 
Not being able to smoke , he cut himself a good sized plug of tobacco and began to chew . 
As to Van Helsing , he was employed in a definite way . 
First he took from his bag a mass of what looked like thin , wafer like biscuit , which was carefully rolled up in a white napkin . 
Next he took out a double handful of some whitish stuff , like dough or putty . 
He crumbled the wafer up fine and worked it into the mass between his hands . 
This he then took , and rolling it into thin strips , began to lay them into the crevices between the door and its setting in the tomb . 
I was somewhat puzzled at this , and being close , asked him what it was that he was doing . 
Arthur and Quincey drew near also , as they too were curious . 
He answered , I am closing the tomb so that the UnDead may not enter . 
And is that stuff you have there going to do it ? It Is . 
What is that which you are using ? This time the question was by Arthur . 
Van Helsing reverently lifted his hat as he answered . 
I brought it from Amsterdam . 
In respectful silence we took the places assigned to us close round the tomb , but hidden from the sight of any one approaching . 
I pitied the others , especially Arthur . 
Never did tombs look so ghastly white . 
Never did cypress , or yew , or juniper so seem the embodiment of funeral gloom . 
Never did tree or grass wave or rustle so ominously . 
Never did bough creak so mysteriously , and never did the far away howling of dogs send such a woeful presage through the night . 
We could not see the face , for it was bent down over what we saw to be a fair haired child . 
There was a pause and a sharp little cry , such as a child gives in sleep , or a dog as it lies before the fire and dreams . 
We were starting forward , but the Professor's warning hand , seen by us as he stood behind a yew tree , kept us back . 
And then as we looked the white figure moved forwards again . 
It was now near enough for us to see clearly , and the moonlight still held . 
My own heart grew cold as ice , and I could hear the gasp of Arthur , as we recognized the features of Lucy Westenra . 
Lucy Westenra , but yet how changed . 
The sweetness was turned to adamantine , heartless cruelty , and the purity to voluptuous wantonness . 
Van Helsing stepped out , and obedient to his gesture , we all advanced too . 
The four of us ranged in a line before the door of the tomb . 
Van Helsing raised his lantern and drew the slide . 
I could see by the tremulous light that even Van Helsing's iron nerve had failed . 
Arthur was next to me , and if I had not seized his arm and held him up , he would have fallen . 
Lucy's eyes in form and color , but Lucy's eyes unclean and full of hell fire , instead of the pure , gentle orbs we knew . 
At that moment the remnant of my love passed into hate and loathing . 
Had she then to be killed , I could have done it with savage delight . 
As she looked , her eyes blazed with unholy light , and the face became wreathed with a voluptuous smile . 
The child gave a sharp cry , and lay there moaning . 
There was a cold bloodedness in the act which wrung a groan from Arthur . 
When she advanced to him with outstretched arms and a wanton smile he fell back and hid his face in his hands . 
She still advanced , however , and with a languorous , voluptuous grace , said , Come to me , Arthur . 
Leave these others and come to me . 
My arms are hungry for you . 
Come , and we can rest together . 
As for Arthur , he seemed under a spell , moving his hands from his face , he opened wide his arms . 
She was leaping for them , when Van Helsing sprang forward and held between them his little golden crucifix . 
She recoiled from it , and , with a suddenly distorted face , full of rage , dashed past him as if to enter the tomb . 
When within a foot or two of the door , however , she stopped , as if arrested by some irresistible force . 
Then she turned , and her face was shown in the clear burst of moonlight and by the lamp , which had now no quiver from Van Helsing's nerves . 
Never did I see such baffled malice on a face , and never , I trust , shall such ever be seen again by mortal eyes . 
If ever a face meant death , if looks could kill , we saw it at that moment . 
And so for full half a minute , which seemed an eternity , se remained between the lifted crucifix and the sacred closing of her means of entry . 
Van Helsing broke the silence by asking Arthur , Answer me , oh my friend ! Am I to proceed in my work ? Do as you will , friend . 
There can be no horror like this ever any more . 
And he groaned in spirit . 
Quincey and I simultaneously moved towards him , and took his arms . 
We could hear the click of the closing lantern as Van Helsing held it down . 
Coming close to the tomb , he began to remove from the chinks some of the sacred emblem which he had placed there . 
We all felt a glad sense of relief when we saw the Professor calmly restoring the strings of putty to the edges of the door . 
When this was done , he lifted the child and said , Come now , my friends . 
We can do no more till tomorrow . 
There is a funeral at noon , so here we shall all come before long after that . 
The friends of the dead will all be gone by two , and when the sexton locks the gate we shall remain . 
Then there is more to do , but not like this of tonight . 
As for this little one , he is not much harmed , and by tomorrow night he shall be well . 
We shall leave him where the police will find him , as on the other night , and then to home . 
You are now in the bitter waters , my child . 
By this time tomorrow you will , please God , have passed them , and have drunk of the sweet waters . 
So do not mourn over much . 
Till then I shall not ask you to forgive me . 
Arthur and Quincey came home with me , and we tried to cheer each other on the way . 
We had left behind the child in safety , and were tired . 
So we all slept with more or less reality of sleep . 
A little before twelve o'clock we three , Arthur , Quincey Morris , and myself , called for the Professor . 
It was odd to notice that by common consent we had all put on black clothes . 
Of course , Arthur wore black , for he was in deep mourning , but the rest of us wore it by instinct . 
Van Helsing , instead of his little black bag , had with him a long leather one , something like a cricketing bag . 
It was manifestly of fair weight . 
He unlocked the door , and we entered , closing it behind us . 
When he again lifted the lid off Lucy's coffin we all looked , Arthur trembling like an aspen , and saw that the corpse lay there in all its death beauty . 
But there was no love in my own heart , nothing but loathing for the foul Thing which had taken Lucy's shape without her soul . 
I could see even Arthur's face grow hard as he looked . 
Presently he said to Van Helsing , Is this really Lucy's body , or only a demon in her shape ? It is her body , and yet not it . 
But wait a while , and you shall see her as she was , and is . 
Van Helsing , with his usual methodicalness , began taking the various contents from his bag and placing them ready for use . 
One end of it was hardened by charring in the fire , and was sharpened to a fine point . 
With this stake came a heavy hammer , such as in households is used in the coal cellar for breaking the lumps . 
They both , however , kept their courage , and remained silent and quiet . 
When all was ready , Van Helsing said , Before we do anything , let me tell you this . 
It is out of the lore and experience of the ancients and of all those who have studied the powers of the UnDead . 
When they become such , there comes with the change the curse of immortality . 
They cannot die , but must go on age after age adding new victims and multiplying the evils of the world . 
For all that die from the preying of the Undead become themselves Undead , and prey on their kind . 
And so the circle goes on ever widening , like as the ripples from a stone thrown in the water . 
The career of this so unhappy dear lady is but just begun . 
But if she die in truth , then all cease . 
The tiny wounds of the throats disappear , and they go back to their play unknowing ever of what has been . 
Instead of working wickedness by night and growing more debased in the assimilating of it by day , she shall take her place with the other Angels . 
So that , my friend , it will be a blessed hand for her that shall strike the blow that sets her free . 
This stake must be driven through her . 
It well be a fearful ordeal , be not deceived in that , but it will be only a short time , and you will then rejoice more than your pain was great . 
From this grim tomb you will emerge as though you tread on air . 
But you must not falter when once you have begun . 
Only think that we , your true friends , are round you , and that we pray for you all the time . 
Go on , said Arthur hoarsely . 
Tell me what I am to do . 
Take this stake in your left hand , ready to place to the point over the heart , and the hammer in your right . 
Arthur took the stake and the hammer , and when once his mind was set on action his hands never trembled nor even quivered . 
Van Helsing opened his missal and began to read , and Quincey and I followed as well as we could . 
Arthur placed the point over the heart , and as I looked I could see its dint in the white flesh . 
Then he struck with all his might . 
The thing in the coffin writhed , and a hideous , blood curdling screech came from the opened red lips . 
The body shook and quivered and twisted in wild contortions . 
The sharp white champed together till the lips were cut , and the mouth was smeared with a crimson foam . 
His face was set , and high duty seemed to shine through it . 
The sight of it gave us courage so that our voices seemed to ring through the little vault . 
And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less , and the teeth seemed to champ , and the face to quiver . 
The terrible task was over . 
The hammer fell from Arthur's hand . 
He reeled and would have fallen had we not caught him . 
The great drops of sweat sprang from his forehead , and his breath came in broken gasps . 
It had indeed been an awful strain on him , and had he not been forced to his task by more than human considerations he could never have gone through with it . 
For a few minutes we were so taken up with him that we did not look towards the coffin . 
When we did , however , a murmur of startled surprise ran from one to the other of us . 
True that there were there , as we had seen them in life , the traces of care and pain and waste . 
But these were all dear to us , for they marked her truth to what we knew . 
He put his hands on the Professor's shoulder , and laying his head on his breast , cried for a while silently , whilst we stood unmoving . 
When he raised his head Van Helsing said to him , And now , my child , you may kiss her . 
Kiss her dead lips if you will , as she would have you to , if for her to choose . 
For she is not a grinning devil now , not any more a foul Thing for all eternity . 
No longer she is the devil's UnDead . 
She is God's true dead , whose soul is with Him ! Arthur bent and kissed her , and then we sent him and Quincey out of the tomb . 
The Professor and I sawed the top off the stake , leaving the point of it in the body . 
Then we cut off the head and filled the mouth with garlic . 
We soldered up the leaden coffin , screwed on the coffin lid , and gathering up our belongings , came away . 
When the Professor locked the door he gave the key to Arthur . 
Outside the air was sweet , the sun shone , and the birds sang , and it seemed as if all nature were tuned to a different pitch . 
There was gladness and mirth and peace everywhere , for we were at rest ourselves on one account , and we were glad , though it was with a tempered joy . 
Before we moved away Van Helsing said , Now , my friends , one step or our work is done , one the most harrowing to ourselves . 
But there remains a greater task , to find out the author of all this or sorrow and to stamp him out . 
I have clues which we can follow , but it is a long task , and a difficult one , and there is danger in it , and pain . 
Then said the Professor as we moved off , Two nights hence you shall meet with me and dine together at seven of the clock with friend John . 
I shall entreat two others , two that you know not as yet , and I shall be ready to all our work show and our plans unfold . 
Friend John , you come with me home , for I have much to consult you about , and you can help me . 
Tonight I leave for Amsterdam , but shall return tomorrow night . 
And then begins our great quest . 
But first I shall have much to say , so that you may know what to do and to dread . 
Then our promise shall be made to each other anew . 
For there is a terrible task before us , and once our feet are on the ploughshare we must not draw back . 
When we arrived at the Berkely Hotel , Van Helsing found a telegram waiting for him . 
Am coming up by train . 
Ah , that wonderful Madam Mina , he said , pearl among women ! She arrive , but I cannot stay . 
She must go to your house , friend John . 
You must meet her at the station . 
Telegraph her en route so that she may be prepared . 
When the wire was dispatched he had a cup of tea . 
Over it he told me of a diary kept by Jonathan Harker when abroad , and gave me a typewritten copy of it , as also of Mrs. Harker's diary at Whitby . 
Take these , he said , and study them well . 
When I have returned you will be master of all the facts , and we can then better enter on our inquisition . 
Keep them safe , for there is in them much of treasure . 
You will need all your faith , even you who have had such an experience as that of today . 
Read all , I pray you , with the open mind , and if you can add in any way to the story here told do so , for it is all important . 
You have kept a diary of all these so strange things , is it not so ? Yes ! Then we shall go through all these together when we meet . 
He then made ready for his departure and shortly drove off to Liverpool Street . 
I took my way to Paddington , where I arrived about fifteen minutes before the train came in . 
Seward , is it not ? And you are Mrs. Harker ! I answered at once , whereupon she held out her hand . 
I knew you from the description of poor dear Lucy , but . 
She stopped suddenly , and a quick blush overspread her face . 
The blush that rose to my own cheeks somehow set us both at ease , for it was a tacit answer to her own . 
In due time we arrived . 
She knew , of course , that the place was a lunatic asylum , but I could see that she was unable to repress a shudder when we entered . 
She told me that , if she might , she would come presently to my study , as she had much to say . 
So here I am finishing my entry in my phonograph diary whilst I await her . 
As yet I have not had the chance of looking at the papers which Van Helsing left with me , though they lie open before me . 
I must get her interested in something , so that I may have an opportunity of reading them . 
She does not know how precious time is , or what a task we have in hand . 
I must be careful not to frighten her . 
Here she is ! MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL September . 
After I had tidied myself , I went down to Dr . 
At the door I paused a moment , for I thought I heard him talking with some one . 
As , however , he had pressed me to be quick , I knocked at the door , and on his calling out , Come in , I entered . 
To my intense surprise , there was no one with him . 
He was quite alone , and on the table opposite him was what I knew at once from the description to be a phonograph . 
I had never seen one , and was much interested . 
I hope I did not keep you waiting , I said , but I stayed at the door as I heard you talking , and thought there was someone with you . 
Oh , he replied with a smile , I was only entering my diary . 
Your diary ? I asked him in surprise . 
I keep it in this . 
As he spoke he laid his hand on the phonograph . 
Then he paused , and a troubled look overspread his face . 
The fact is , he began awkwardly . 
I only keep my diary in it , and as it is entirely , almost entirely , about my cases it may be awkward , that is , I mean . 
He stopped , and I tried to help him out of his embarrassment . 
You helped to attend dear Lucy at the end . 
Let me hear how she died , for all that I know of her , I shall be very grateful . 
She was very , very dear to me . 
Again he paused , and I could see that he was trying to invent an excuse . 
At length , he stammered out , You see , I do not know how to pick out any particular part of the diary . 
Honest Indian ! I could not but smile , at which he grimaced . 
I gave myself away that time ! he said . 
Seward , you had better let me copy it out for you on my typewriter . 
He grew to a positively deathly pallor as he said , No ! No ! No ! For all the world . 
I wouldn't let you know that terrible story . 
! Then it was terrible . 
His eyes caught the look in mine , and without his thinking , followed their direction . 
As they saw the parcel he realized my meaning . 
You do not know me , I said . 
When you have read those papers , my own diary and my husband's also , which I have typed , you will know me better . 
I have not faltered in giving every thought of my own heart in this cause . 
But , of course , you do not know me , yet , and I must not expect you to trust me so far . 
He is certainly a man of noble nature . 
Poor dear Lucy was right about him . 
I did not trust you because I did not know you . 
But I know you now , and let me say that I should have known you long ago . 
I know that Lucy told you of me . 
She told me of you too . 
May I make the only atonement in my power ? Take the cylinders and hear them . 
The first half dozen of them are personal to me , and they will not horrify you . 
Then you will know me better . 
Dinner will by then be ready . 
In the meantime I shall read over some of these documents , and shall be better able to understand certain things . 
He carried the phonograph himself up to my sitting room and adjusted it for me . 
Now I shall learn something pleasant , I am sure . 
For it will tell me the other side of a true love episode of which I know one side already . 
I was so absorbed in that wonderful diary of Jonathan Harker and that other of his wife that I let the time run on without thinking . 
Mrs. Harker was not down when the maid came to announce dinner , so I said , She is possibly tired . 
Let dinner wait an hour , and I went on with my work . 
I had just finished Mrs. Harker's diary , when she came in . 
She looked sweetly pretty , but very sad , and her eyes were flushed with crying . 
This somehow moved me much . 
So I said as gently as I could , I greatly fear I have distressed you . 
Oh , no , not distressed me , she replied . 
But I have been more touched than I can say by your grief . 
That is a wonderful machine , but it is cruelly true . 
It told me , in its very tones , the anguish of your heart . 
It was like a soul crying out to Almighty God . 
No one must hear them spoken ever again ! See , I have tried to be useful . 
I have copied out the words on my typewriter , and none other need now hear your heart beat , as I did . 
No one need ever know , shall ever know , I said in a low voice . 
She laid her hand on mine and said very gravely , Ah , but they must ! Must ! but why ? I asked . 
Because it is a part of the terrible story , a part of poor Lucy's death and all that led to it . 
Because in the struggle which we have before us to rid the earth of this terrible monster we must have all the knowledge and all the help which we can get . 
I think that the cylinders which you gave me contained more than you intended me to know . 
But I can see that there are in your record many lights to this dark mystery . 
Jonathan and I have been working day and night since Professor Van Helsing saw us . 
He is gone to Whitby to get more information , and he will be here tomorrow to help us . 
We need have no secrets amongst us . 
Working together and with absolute trust , we can surely be stronger than if some of us were in the dark . 
She looked at me so appealingly , and at the same time manifested such courage and resolution in her bearing , that I gave in at once to her wishes . 
You shall , I said , do as you like in the matter . 
God forgive me if I do wrong ! There are terrible things yet to learn of . 
But if you have so far traveled on the road to poor Lucy's death , you will not be content , I know , to remain in the dark . 
Nay , the end , the very end , may give you a gleam of peace . 
Come , there is dinner . 
We must keep one another strong for what is before us . 
We have a cruel and dreadful task . 
After dinner I came with Dr . 
Then he very thoughtfully took a chair , with his back to me , so that I might be as free as possible , and began to read . 
I put the forked metal to my ears and listened . 
When the terrible story of Lucy's death , and all that followed , was done , I lay back in my chair powerless . 
Fortunately I am not of a fainting disposition . 
It is all so wild and mysterious , and strange that if I had not known Jonathan's experience in Transylvania I could not have believed . 
As it was , I didn't know what to believe , and so got out of my difficulty by attending to something else . 
I took the cover off my typewriter , and said to Dr . 
Seward , Let me write this all out now . 
We must be ready for Dr . 
Van Helsing when he comes . 
I have sent a telegram to Jonathan to come on here when he arrives in London from Whitby . 
You tell me that Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris are coming too . 
Let us be able to tell them when they come . 
He accordingly set the phonograph at a slow pace , and I began to typewrite from the beginning of the seventeenth cylinder . 
I used manifold , and so took three copies of the diary , just as I had done with the rest . 
It was late when I got through , but Dr . 
Seward went about his work of going his round of the patients . 
When he had finished he came back and sat near me , reading , so that I did not feel too lonely whilst I worked . 
How good and thoughtful he is . 
The world seems full of good men , even if there are monsters in it . 
Seward keeps his newspapers , I borrowed the files of The Westminster Gazette' and The Pall Mall Gazette' and took them to my room . 
I am not sleepy , and the work will help to keep me quiet . 
Mr. Harker arrived at nine o'clock . 
He got his wife's wire just before starting . 
He is uncommonly clever , if one can judge from his face , and full of energy . 
If this journal be true , and judging by one's own wonderful experiences , it must be , he is also a man of great nerve . 
That going down to the vault a second time was a remarkable piece of daring . 
After reading his account of it I was prepared to meet a good specimen of manhood , but hardly the quiet , businesslike gentleman who came here today . 
After lunch Harker and his wife went back to their own room , and as I passed a while ago I heard the click of the typewriter . 
They are hard at it . 
Mrs. Harker says that knitting together in chronological order every scrap of evidence they have . 
Harker has got the letters between the consignee of the boxes at Whitby and the carriers in London who took charge of them . 
He is now reading his wife's transcript of my diary . 
I wonder what they make out of it . 
Oh , if we had only had them earlier we might have saved poor Lucy ! Stop ! That way madness lies ! Harker has gone back , and is again collecting material . 
He says that by dinner time they will be able to show a whole connected narrative . 
He thinks that in the meantime I should see Renfield , as hitherto he has been a sort of index to the coming and going of the Count . 
I hardly see this yet , but when I get at the dates I suppose I shall . 
What a good thing that Mrs. Harker put my cylinders into type ! We never could have found the dates otherwise . 
I found Renfield sitting placidly in his room with his hands folded , smiling benignly . 
At the moment he seemed as sane as any one I ever saw . 
I sat down and talked with him on a lot of subjects , all of which he treated naturally . 
He then , of his own accord , spoke of going home , a subject he has never mentioned to my knowledge during his sojourn here . 
In fact , he spoke quite confidently of getting his discharge at once . 
As it is , I am darkly suspicious . 
All those out breaks were in some way linked with the proximity of the Count . 
What then does this absolute content mean ? Can it be that his instinct is satisfied as to the vampire's ultimate triumph ? Stay . 
He is himself zoophagous , and in his wild ravings outside the chapel door of the deserted house he always spoke of master' . 
This all seems confirmation of our idea . 
However , after a while I came away . 
My friend is just a little too sane at present to make it safe to probe him too deep with questions . 
He might begin to think , and then . 
JOHNATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL September , in train to London . 
It was now my object to trace that horrid cargo of the Count's to its place in London . 
Later , we may be able to deal with it . 
Billington junior , a nice lad , met me at the station , and brought me to his father's house , where they had decided that I must spend the night . 
They are hospitable , with true Yorkshire hospitality , give a guest everything and leave him to do as he likes . 
They all knew that I was busy , and that my stay was short , and Mr. Billington had ready in his office all the papers concerning the consignment of boxes . 
It gave me almost a turn to see again one of the letters which I had seen on the Count's table before I knew of his diabolical plans . 
Everything had been carefully thought out , and done systematically and with precision . 
He seemed to have been prepared for every obstacle which might be placed by accident in the way of his intentions being carried out . 
To use and Americanism , he had taken no chances' , and the absolute accuracy with which his instructions were fulfilled was simply the logical result of his care . 
I saw the invoice , and took note of it . 
Fifty cases of common earth , to be used for experimental purposes' . 
Also the copy of the letter to Carter Paterson , and their reply . 
Of both these I got copies . 
Another put in a rider that the thirst then generated was such that even the time which had elapsed had not completely allayed it . 
Needless to add , I took care before leaving to lift , forever and adequately , this source of reproach . 
He , too put me at once in communication with the proper officials , and I saw that their tally was correct with the original invoice . 
The opportunities of acquiring an abnormal thirst had been here limited . 
A noble use of them had , however , been made , and again I was compelled to deal with the result in ex post facto manner . 
From thence I went to Carter Paterson's central office , where I met with the utmost courtesy . 
They looked up the transaction in their day book and letter book , and at once telephoned to their King's Cross office for more details . 
Here again I found the tally agreeing exactly . 
The carriers' men were able to supplement the paucity of the written words with a few more details . 
These were , I shortly found , connected almost solely with the dusty nature of the job , and the consequent thirst engendered in the operators . 
Blyme ! But it ain't been touched sence a hundred years . 
There was dust that thick in the place that you might have slep' on it without urtin' of yer bones . 
An' the place was that neglected that yer might ave smelled ole Jerusalem in it . 
But the old chapel , that took the cike , that did ! Me and my mate , we thort we wouldn't never git out quick enough . 
Lor' , I wouldn't take less nor a quid a moment to stay there arter dark . 
Having been in the house , I could well believe him , but if he knew what I know , he would , I think have raised his terms . 
Of one thing I am now satisfied . 
That all those boxes which arrived at Whitby from Varna in the Demeter were safely deposited in the old chapel at Carfax . 
There should be fifty of them there , unless any have since been removed , as from Dr . 
Mina and I have worked all day , and we have put all the papers into order . 
I am so glad that I hardly know how to contain myself . 
It is , I suppose , the reaction from the haunting fear which I have had , that this terrible affair and the reopening of his old wound might act detrimentally on Jonathan . 
I saw him leave for Whitby with as brave a face as could , but I was sick with apprehension . 
The effort has , however , done him good . 
He was never so resolute , never so strong , never so full of volcanic energy , as at present . 
It is just as that dear , good Professor Van Helsing said , he is true grit , and he improves under strain that would kill a weaker nature . 
He came back full of life and hope and determination . 
We have got everything in order for tonight . 
I feel myself quite wild with excitement . 
I suppose one ought to pity anything so hunted as the Count . 
This thing is not human , not even a beast . 
Seward's account of poor Lucy's death , and what followed , is enough to dry up the springs of pity in one's heart . 
Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris arrived earlier than we expected . 
Seward was out on business , and had taken Jonathan with him , so I had to see them . 
It was to me a painful meeting , for it brought back all poor dear Lucy's hopes of only a few months ago . 
Of course they had heard Lucy speak of me , and it seemed that Dr . 
Van Helsing , too , had been quite blowing my trumpet' , as Mr. Morris expressed it . 
Poor fellows , neither of them is aware that I know all about the proposals they made to Lucy . 
They did not quite know what to say or do , as they were ignorant of the amount of my knowledge . 
So they had to keep on neutral subjects . 
However , I thought the matter over , and came to the conclusion that the best thing I could do would be to post them on affairs right up to date . 
Seward's diary that they had been at Lucy's death , her real death , and that I need not fear to betray any secret before the time . 
I gave them each a copy to read in the library . 
I have had one lesson already in accepting facts that should make a man humble to the last hour of his life . 
Besides , I know you loved my Lucy . 
Here he turned away and covered his face with his hands . 
I could hear the tears in his voice . 
Mr. Morris , with instinctive delicacy , just laid a hand for a moment on his shoulder , and then walked quietly out of the room . 
For when Lord Godalming found himself alone with me he sat down on the sofa and gave way utterly and openly . 
I sat down beside him and took his hand . 
I hope he didn't think it forward of me , and that if her ever thinks of it afterwards he never will have such a thought . 
I know he never will . 
He is too true a gentleman . 
It seemed to me that all that he had of late been suffering in silence found a vent at once . 
He grew quite hysterical , and raising his open hands , beat his palms together in a perfect agony of grief . 
He stood up and then sat down again , and the tears rained down his cheeks . 
I felt an infinite pity for him , and opened my arms unthinkingly . 
With a sob he laid his head on my shoulder and cried like a wearied child , whilst he shook with emotion . 
We women have something of the mother in us that makes us rise above smaller matters when the mother spirit is invoked . 
I never thought at the time how strange it all was . 
After a little bit his sobs ceased , and he raised himself with an apology , though he made no disguise of his emotion . 
There was no woman whose sympathy could be given to him , or with whom , owing to the terrible circumstance with which his sorrow was surrounded , he could speak freely . 
I shall know better in time , and believe me that , though I am not ungrateful now , my gratitude will grow with my understanding . 
Ay , and for your own sake , he added , for if a man's esteem and gratitude are ever worth the winning , you have won mine today . 
If ever the future should bring to you a time when you need a man's help , believe me , you will not call in vain . 
He was so earnest , and his sorrow was so fresh , that I felt it would comfort him , so I said , I promise . 
As I came along the corridor I say Mr. Morris looking out of a window . 
He turned as he heard my footsteps . 
How is Art ? he said . 
Then noticing my red eyes , he went on , Ah , I see you have been comforting him . 
Poor old fellow ! He needs it . 
No one but a woman can help a man when he is in trouble of the heart , and he had no one to comfort him . 
He bore his own trouble so bravely that my heart bled for him . 
Will you let me be your friend , and will you come to me for comfort if you need it ? You will know later why I speak . 
He saw that I was in earnest , and stooping , took my hand , and raising it to his lips , kissed it . 
It seemed but poor comfort to so brave and unselfish a soul , and impulsively I bent over and kissed him . 
The tears rose in his eyes , and there was a momentary choking in his throat . 
He said quite calmly , Little girl , you will never forget that true hearted kindness , so long as ever you live ! Then he went into the study to his friend . 
Little girl ! The very words he had used to Lucy , and , oh , but he proved himself a friend . 
Hennessey had written to me . 
Mrs. Harker gave us a cup of tea , and I can honestly say that , for the first time since I have lived in it , this old house seemed like home . 
When we had finished , Mrs. Harker said , Dr . 
Seward , may I ask a favor ? I want to see your patient , Mr. Renfield . 
Do let me see him . 
Oh , very well , he said , let her come in , by all means , but just wait a minute till I tidy up the place . 
His method of tidying was peculiar , he simply swallowed all the flies and spiders in the boxes before I could stop him . 
It was quite evident that he feared , or was jealous of , some interference . 
For a moment I thought that he might have some homicidal intent . 
She came into the room with an easy gracefulness which would at once command the respect of any lunatic , for easiness is one of the qualities mad people most respect . 
She walked over to him , smiling pleasantly , and held out her hand . 
Good evening , Mr. Renfield , said she . 
You see , I know you , for Dr . 
Seward has told me of you . 
He made no immediate reply , but eyed her all over intently with a set frown on his face . 
Mrs. Harker smiled sweetly as she replied , Oh no ! I have a husband of my own , to whom I was married before I ever saw Dr . 
Seward , or he me . 
Then what are you doing here ? My husband and I are staying on a visit with Dr . 
I positively opened my eyes at this new development . 
Here was my own pet lunatic , the most pronounced of his type that I had ever met with , talking elemental philosophy , and with the manner of a polished gentleman . 
I wonder if it was Mrs. Harker's presence which had touched some chord in his memory . 
If this new phase was spontaneous , or in any way due to her unconscious influence , she must have some rare gift or power . 
I was again astonished , for he addressed himself to the question with the impartiality of the completest sanity . 
He even took himself as an example when he mentioned certain things . 
Why , I myself am an instance of a man who had a strange belief . 
Indeed , it was no wonder that my friends were alarmed , and insisted on my being put under control . 
At times I held the belief so strongly that I actually tried to take human life . 
Though , indeed , the vendor of a certain nostrum has vulgarized the truism to the very point of contempt . 
Looking at my watch , I saw that I should go to the station to meet Van Helsing , so I told Mrs. Harker that it was time to leave . 
She came at once , after saying pleasantly to Mr. Renfield , Goodbye , and I hope I may see you often , under auspices pleasanter to yourself . 
To which , to my astonishment , he replied , Goodbye , my dear . 
I pray God I may never see your sweet face again . 
May He bless and keep you ! When I went to the station to meet Van Helsing I left the boys behind me . 
Poor Art seemed more cheerful than he has been since Lucy first took ill , and Quincey is more like his own bright self than he has been for many a long day . 
Van Helsing stepped from the carriage with the eager nimbleness of a boy . 
All affairs are settled with me , and I have much to tell . 
Madam Mina is with you ? Yes . 
Ah , that wonderful Madam Mina ! She has man's brain , a brain that a man should have were he much gifted , and a woman's heart . 
The good God fashioned her for a purpose , believe me , when He made that so good combination . 
Friend John , up to now fortune has made that woman of help to us , after tonight she must not have to do with this so terrible affair . 
It is not good that she run a risk so great . 
We men are determined , nay , are we not pledged , to destroy this monster ? But it is no part for a woman . 
And , besides , she is young woman and not so long married , there may be other things to think of some time , if not now . 
You tell me she has wrote all , then she must consult with us , but tomorrow she say goodbye to this work , and we go alone . 
He was amazed , and a great concern seemed to come on him . 
Oh that we had known it before ! he said , for then we might have reached him in time to save poor Lucy . 
However , the milk that is spilt cries not out afterwards , 'as you say . 
We shall not think of that , but go on our way to the end . 
Then he fell into a silence that lasted till we entered my own gateway . 
Not up to this moment , Professor , she said impulsively , but up to this morning . 
But why not up to now ? We have seen hitherto how good light all the little things have made . 
We have told our secrets , and yet no one who has told is the worse for it . 
Mrs. Harker began to blush , and taking a paper from her pockets , she said , Dr . 
Van Helsing , will you read this , and tell me if it must go in . 
It is my record of today . 
I too have seen the need of putting down at present everything , however trivial , but there is little in this except what is personal . 
It can but make your husband love you the more , and all us , your friends , more honor you , as well as more esteem and love . 
She took it back with another blush and a bright smile . 
And so now , up to this very hour , all the records we have are complete and in order . 
The Professor took away one copy to study after dinner , and before our meeting , which is fixed for nine o'clock . 
When we met in Dr . 
Seward's study two hours after dinner , which had been at six o'clock , we unconsciously formed a sort of board or committee . 
Professor Van Helsing took the head of the table , to which Dr . 
Seward motioned him as he came into the room . 
He made me sit next to him on his right , and asked me to act as secretary . 
Jonathan sat next to me . 
Opposite us were Lord Godalming , Dr . 
Seward , and Mr. Morris , Lord Godalming being next the Professor , and Dr . 
The Professor said , I may , I suppose , take it that we are all acquainted with the facts that are in these papers . 
I shall then make known to you something of the history of this man , which has been ascertained for me . 
So we then can discuss how we shall act , and can take our measure according . 
There are such beings as vampires , some of us have evidence that they exist . 
Even had we not the proof of our own unhappy experience , the teachings and the records of the past give proof enough for sane peoples . 
I admit that at the first I was sceptic . 
Were it not that through long years I have trained myself to keep an open mind , I could not have believed until such time as that fact thunder on my ear . 
See ! See ! I prove , I prove . 
But that is gone , and we must so work , that other poor souls perish not , whilst we can save . 
The nosferatu do not die like the bee when he sting once . 
He is only stronger , and being stronger , have yet more power to work evil . 
For if we fail in this our fight he must surely win , and then where end we ? Life is nothings , I heed him not . 
But to fail here , is not mere life or death . 
Some have seen sorrow , but there are fair days yet in store . 
What say you ? Whilst he was speaking , Jonathan had taken my hand . 
A brave man's hand can speak for itself , it does not even need a woman's love to hear its music . 
When the Professor had done speaking my husband looked in my eyes , and I in his , there was no need for speaking between us . 
I answer for Mina and myself , he said . 
Count me in , Professor , said Mr. Quincey Morris , laconically as usual . 
I am with you , said Lord Godalming , for Lucy's sake , if for no other reason . 
The Professor stood up and , after laying his golden crucifix on the table , held out his hand on either side . 
I took his right hand , and Lord Godalming his left , Jonathan held my right with his left and stretched across to Mr. Morris . 
So as we all took hands our solemn compact was made . 
I felt my heart icy cold , but it did not even occur to me to draw back . 
We resumed our places , and Dr . 
Van Helsing went on with a sort of cheerfulness which showed that the serious work had begun . 
It was to be taken as gravely , and in as businesslike a way , as any other transaction of life . 
Well , you know what we have to contend against , but we too , are not without strength . 
In fact , so far as our powers extend , they are unfettered , and we are free to use them . 
We have self devotion in a cause and an end to achieve which is not a selfish one . 
Now let us see how far the general powers arrayed against us are restrict , and how the individual cannot . 
In fine , let us consider the limitations of the vampire in general , and of this one in particular . 
All we have to go upon are traditions and superstitions . 
These do not at the first appear much , when the matter is one of life and death , nay of more than either life or death . 
Take it , then , that the vampire , and the belief in his limitations and his cure , rest for the moment on the same base . 
For , let me tell you , he is known everywhere that men have been . 
He have follow the wake of the berserker Icelander , the devil begotten Hun , the Slav , the Saxon , the Magyar . 
The vampire live on , and cannot die by mere passing of the time , he can flourish when that he can fatten on the blood of the living . 
But he cannot flourish without this diet , he eat not as others . 
He has the strength of many of his hand , witness again Jonathan when he shut the door against the wolves , and when he help him from the diligence too . 
He come on moonlight rays as elemental dust , as again Jonathan saw those sisters in the castle of Dracula . 
He become so small , we ourselves saw Miss Lucy , ere she was at peace , slip through a hairbreadth space at the tomb door . 
He can see in the dark , no small power this , in a world which is one half shut from the light . 
Ah , but hear me through . 
He can do all these things , yet he is not free . 
Nay , he is even more prisoner than the slave of the galley , than the madman in his cell . 
He cannot go where he lists , he who is not of nature has yet to obey some of nature's laws , why we know not . 
He may not enter anywhere at the first , unless there be some one of the household who bid him to come , though afterwards he can come as he please . 
His power ceases , as does that of all evil things , at the coming of the day . 
Only at certain times can he have limited freedom . 
If he be not at the place whither he is bound , he can only change himself at noon or at exact sunrise or sunset . 
These things we are told , and in this record of ours we have proof by inference . 
It is said , too , that he can only pass running water at the slack or the flood of the tide . 
There are others , too , which I shall tell you of , lest in our seeking we may need them . 
We have seen it with our eyes . 
Thus when we find the habitation of this man that was , we can confine him to his coffin and destroy him , if we obey what we know . 
I have asked my friend Arminius , of Buda Pesth University , to make his record , and from all the means that are , he tell me of what he has been . 
He must , indeed , have been that Voivode Dracula who won his name against the Turk , over the great river on the very frontier of Turkeyland . 
That mighty brain and that iron resolution went with him to his grave , and are even now arrayed against us . 
The Draculas were , says Arminius , a great and noble race , though now and again were scions who were held by their coevals to have had dealings with the Evil One . 
They learned his secrets in the Scholomance , amongst the mountains over Lake Hermanstadt , where the devil claims the tenth scholar as his due . 
There have been from the loins of this very one great men and good women , and their graves make sacred the earth where alone this foulness can dwell . 
For it is not the least of its terrors that this evil thing is rooted deep in all good , in soil barren of holy memories it cannot rest . 
Whilst they were talking Mr. Morris was looking steadily at the window , and he now got up quietly , and went out of the room . 
There was a little pause , and then the Professor went on . 
And now we must settle what we do . 
We have here much data , and we must proceed to lay out our campaign . 
If the latter , we must trace . 
Here we were interrupted in a very startling way . 
I am afraid I am at heart a coward , for I shrieked out . 
The men all jumped to their feet , Lord Godalming flew over to the window and threw up the sash . 
As he did so we heard Mr. Morris' voice without , Sorry ! I fear I have alarmed you . 
I shall come in and tell you about it . 
But the fact is that whilst the Professor was talking there came a big bat and sat on the window sill . 
You used to laugh at me for it then , Art . 
Did you hit it ? asked Dr . 
I don't know , I fancy not , for it flew away into the wood . 
Without saying any more he took his seat , and the Professor began to resume his statement . 
Thus in the end we may find him in his form of man between the hours of noon and sunset , and so engage with him when he is at his most weak . 
And now for you , Madam Mina , this night is the end until all be well . 
You are too precious to us to have such risk . 
When we part tonight , you no more must question . 
We shall tell you all in good time . 
Mr. Morris resumed the discussion , As there is no time to lose , I vote we have a look at his house right now . 
Time is everything with him , and swift action on our part may save another victim . 
They have now gone off to Carfax , with means to get into the house . 
I told the messenger to say that I would attend to his wishes in the morning , I was busy just at the moment . 
The attendant added , He seems very importunate , sir . 
I have never seen him so eager . 
I don't know but what , if you don't see him soon , he will have one of his violent fits . 
Take me with you , friend John , said the Professor . 
His case in your diary interest me much , and it had bearing , too , now and again on our case . 
I should much like to see him , and especial when his mind is disturbed . 
May I come also ? asked Lord Godalming . 
Me too ? said Quincey Morris . 
May I come ? said Harker . 
I nodded , and we all went down the passage together . 
We found him in a state of considerable excitement , but far more rational in his speech and manner than I had ever seen him . 
We all five went into the room , but none of the others at first said anything . 
His request was that I would at once release him from the asylum and send him home . 
This he backed up with arguments regarding his complete recovery , and adduced his own existing sanity . 
I appeal to your friends , he said , they will , perhaps , not mind sitting in judgement on my case . 
By the way , you have not introduced me . 
Mr. Morris , you should be proud of your great state . 
Its reception into the Union was a precedent which may have far reaching effects hereafter , when the Pole and the Tropics may hold alliance to the Stars and Stripes . 
The power of Treaty may yet prove a vast engine of enlargement , when the Monroe doctrine takes its true place as a political fable . 
What shall any man say of his pleasure at meeting Van Helsing ? Sir , I make no apology for dropping all forms of conventional prefix . 
And I am sure that you , Dr . 
Seward , humanitarian and medico jurist as well as scientist , will deem it a moral duty to deal with me as one to be considered as under exceptional circumstances . 
He made this last appeal with a courtly air of conviction which was not without its own charm . 
I think we were all staggered . 
I thought it better to wait , however , before making so grave a statement , for of old I knew the sudden changes to which this particular patient was liable . 
This did not at all satisfy him , for he said quickly , But I fear , Dr . 
Seward , that you hardly apprehend my wish . 
I desire to go at once , here , now , this very hour , this very moment , if I may . 
Time presses , and in our implied agreement with the old scytheman it is of the essence of the contract . 
I am sure it is only necessary to put before so admirable a practitioner as Dr . 
Seward so simple , yet so momentous a wish , to ensure its fulfilment . 
He looked at me keenly , and seeing the negative in my face , turned to the others , and scrutinized them closely . 
There was a considerable pause , and then he said slowly , Then I suppose I must only shift my ground of request . 
Let me ask for this concession , boon , privilege , what you will . 
I am content to implore in such a case , not on personal grounds , but for the sake of others . 
Could you look , sir , into my heart , you would approve to the full the sentiments which animate me . 
Nay , more , you would count me amongst the best and truest of your friends . 
Again he looked at us all keenly . 
Van Helsing was gazing at him with a look of utmost intensity , his bushy eyebrows almost meeting with the fixed concentration of his look . 
Seward will give you , at his own risk and on his own responsibility , the privilege you seek . 
He shook his head sadly , and with a look of poignant regret on his face . 
The Professor went on , Come , sir , bethink yourself . 
You claim the privilege of reason in the highest degree , since you seek to impress us with your complete reasonableness . 
You do this , whose sanity we have reason to doubt , since you are not yet released from medical treatment for this very defect . 
He still shook his head as he said , Dr . 
Van Helsing , I have nothing to say . 
Your argument is complete , and if I were free to speak I should not hesitate a moment , but I am not my own master in the matter . 
I can only ask you to trust me . 
If I am refused , the responsibility does not rest with me . 
As , however , I got near the door , a new change came over the patient . 
He moved towards me so quickly that for the moment I feared that he was about to make another homicidal attack . 
My fears , however , were groundless , for he held up his two hands imploringly , and made his petition in a moving manner . 
As he saw that the very excess of his emotion was militating against him , by restoring us more to our old relations , he became still more demonstrative . 
My expectation was not realized , for when he found that his appeal would not be successful , he got into quite a frantic condition . 
Let me entreat you , Dr . 
Seward , oh , let me implore you , to let me out of this house at once . 
You don't know what you do by keeping me here . 
I am speaking from the depths of my heart , of my very soul . 
You don't know whom you wrong , or how , and I may not tell . 
Woe is me ! I may not tell . 
Come , I said sternly , no more of this , we have had quite enough already . 
Get to your bed and try to behave more discreetly . 
He suddenly stopped and looked at me intently for several moments . 
Then , without a word , he rose and moving over , sat down on the side of the bed . 
The collapse had come , as on former occasions , just as I had expected . 
When I was leaving the room , last of our party , he said to me in a quiet , well bred voice , You will , I trust , Dr . 
Seward , do me the justice to bear in mind , later on , that I did what I could to convince you tonight . 
CHAPTER JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL October , A. M. I went with the party to the search with an easy mind , for I think I never saw Mina so absolutely strong and well . 
I am so glad that she consented to hold back and let us men do the work . 
We were , I think , all a little upset by the scene with Mr. Renfield . 
When we came away from his room we were silent till we got back to the study . 
Then Mr. Morris said to Dr . 
Seward , Say , Jack , if that man wasn't attempting a bluff , he is about the sanest lunatic I ever saw . 
I'm not sure , but I believe that he had some serious purpose , and if he had , it was pretty rough on him not to get a chance . 
Lord Godalming and I were silent , but Dr . 
But we live and learn , and in our present task we must take no chance , as my friend Quincey would say . 
All is best as they are . 
Seward seemed to answer them both in a dreamy kind of way , I don't know but that I agree with you . 
I can't forget how he prayed with almost equal fervor for a cat , and then tried to tear my throat out with his teeth . 
Besides , he called the Count lord and master' , and he may want to get out to help him in some diabolical way . 
That horrid thing has the wolves and the rats and his own kind to help him , so I suppose he isn't above trying to use a respectable lunatic . 
He certainly did seem earnest , though . 
I only hope we have done what is best . 
These things , in conjunction with the wild work we have in hand , help to unnerve a man . 
The Professor stepped over , and laying his hand on his shoulder , said in his grave , kindly way , Friend John , have no fear . 
We are trying to do our duty in a very sad and terrible case , we can only do as we deem best . 
What else have we to hope for , except the pity of the good God ? Lord Godalming had slipped away for a few minutes , but now he returned . 
He held up a little silver whistle , as he remarked , That old place may be full of rats , and if so , I've got an antidote on call . 
Having passed the wall , we took our way to the house , taking care to keep in the shadows of the trees on the lawn when the moonlight shone out . 
My friends , we are going into a terrible danger , and we need arms of many kinds . 
Our enemy is not merely spiritual . 
We must , therefore , guard ourselves from his touch . 
Keep this near your heart . 
This was a portion of Sacred Wafer , which he put in an envelope and handed to me . 
Each of the others was similarly equipped . 
Seward tried one or two skeleton keys , his mechanical dexterity as a surgeon standing him in good stead . 
Presently he got one to suit , after a little play back and forward the bolt yielded , and with a rusty clang , shot back . 
We pressed on the door , the rusty hinges creaked , and it slowly opened . 
It was startlingly like the image conveyed to me in Dr . 
Seward's diary of the opening of Miss Westenra's tomb , I fancy that the same idea seemed to strike the others , for with one accord they shrank back . 
The Professor was the first to move forward , and stepped into the open door . 
In manus tuas , Domine ! he said , crossing himself as he passed over the threshold . 
We closed the door behind us , lest when we should have lit our lamps we should possibly attract attention from the road . 
The Professor carefully tried the lock , lest we might not be able to open it from within should we be in a hurry making our exit . 
Then we all lit our lamps and proceeded on our search . 
The light from the tiny lamps fell in all sorts of odd forms , as the rays crossed each other , or the opacity of our bodies threw great shadows . 
I could not for my life get away from the feeling that there was someone else amongst us . 
I suppose it was the recollection , so powerfully brought home to me by the grim surroundings , of that terrible experience in Transylvania . 
The whole place was thick with dust . 
The floor was seemingly inches deep , except where there were recent footsteps , in which on holding down my lamp I could see marks of hobnails where the dust was cracked . 
On a table in the hall was a great bunch of keys , with a time yellowed label on each . 
They had been used several times , for on the table were several similar rents in the blanket of dust , similar to that exposed when the Professor lifted them . 
He turned to me and said , You know this place , Jonathan . 
You have copied maps of it , and you know it at least more than we do . 
This is the spot , said the Professor as he turned his lamp on a small map of the house , copied from the file of my original correspondence regarding the purchase . 
With a little trouble we found the key on the bunch and opened the door . 
There was an earthy smell , as of some dry miasma , which came through the fouler air . 
Faugh ! It sickens me to think of it . 
Every breath exhaled by that monster seemed to have clung to the place and intensified its loathsomeness . 
After the involuntary shrinking consequent on the first nauseous whiff , we one and all set about our work as though that loathsome place were a garden of roses . 
A glance was sufficient to show how many remained , for the great earth chests were bulky , and there was no mistaking them . 
I took it that fear had helped imagination , and said nothing . 
A few minutes later I saw Morris step suddenly back from a corner , which he was examining . 
We all followed his movements with our eyes , for undoubtedly some nervousness was growing on us , and we saw a whole mass of phosphorescence , which twinkled like stars . 
We all instinctively drew back . 
The whole place was becoming alive with rats . 
For a moment or two we stood appalled , all save Lord Godalming , who was seemingly prepared for such an emergency . 
Rushing over to the great iron bound oaken door , which Dr . 
Seward had described from the outside , and which I had seen myself , he turned the key in the lock , drew the huge bolts , and swung the door open . 
Then , taking his little silver whistle from his pocket , he blew a low , shrill call . 
It was answered from behind Dr . 
Seward's house by the yelping of dogs , and after about a minute three terriers came dashing round the corner of the house . 
Unconsciously we had all moved towards the door , and as we moved I noticed that the dust had been much disturbed . 
The boxes which had been taken out had been brought this way . 
But even in the minute that had elapsed the number of the rats had vastly increased . 
The dogs dashed on , but at the threshold suddenly stopped and snarled , and then , simultaneously lifting their noses , began to howl in most lugubrious fashion . 
The rats were multiplying in thousands , and we moved out . 
Lord Godalming lifted one of the dogs , and carrying him in , placed him on the floor . 
The instant his feet touched the ground he seemed to recover his courage , and rushed at his natural enemies . 
We all seemed to find our spirits rise . 
We closed the outer door and barred and locked it , and bringing the dogs with us , began our search of the house . 
We found nothing throughout except dust in extraordinary proportions , and all untouched save for my own footsteps when I had made my first visit . 
Never once did the dogs exhibit any symptom of uneasiness , and even when we returned to the chapel they frisked about as though they had been rabbit hunting in a summer wood . 
The morning was quickening in the east when we emerged from the front . 
Van Helsing had taken the key of the hall door from the bunch , and locked the door in orthodox fashion , putting the key into his pocket when he had done . 
So far , he said , our night has been eminently successful . 
No harm has come to us such as I feared might be and yet we have ascertained how many boxes are missing . 
We have other matters before us , other dangers , other fears , and that monster . 
He has not used his power over the brute world for the only or the last time tonight . 
So be it that he has gone elsewhere . 
Good ! It has given us opportunity to cry check'in some ways in this chess game , which we play for the stake of human souls . 
And now let us go home . 
The dawn is close at hand , and we have reason to be content with our first night's work . 
It may be ordained that we have many nights and days to follow , if full of peril , but we must go on , and from no danger shall we shrink . 
The poor wretch was doubtless torturing himself , after the manner of the insane , with needless thoughts of pain . 
I came tiptoe into our own room , and found Mina asleep , breathing so softly that I had to put my ear down to hear it . 
She looks paler than usual . 
I hope the meeting tonight has not upset her . 
I am truly thankful that she is to be left out of our future work , and even of our deliberations . 
It is too great a strain for a woman to bear . 
I did not think so at first , but I know better now . 
Therefore I am glad that it is settled . 
I rest on the sofa , so as not to disturb her . 
I suppose it was natural that we should have all overslept ourselves , for the day was a busy one , and the night had no rest at all . 
She complained a little of being tired , and I let her rest till later in the day . 
We now know of twenty one boxes having been removed , and if it be that several were taken in any of these removals we may be able to trace them all . 
Such will , of course , immensely simplify our labor , and the sooner the matter is attended to the better . 
I shall look up Thomas Snelling today . 
It was towards noon when I was awakened by the Professor walking into my room . 
He was more jolly and cheerful than usual , and it is quite evident that last night's work has helped to take some of the brooding weight off his mind . 
After going over the adventure of the night he suddenly said , Your patient interests me much . 
May it be that with you I visit him this morning ? Or if that you are too occupy , I can go alone if it may be . 
It is a new experience to me to find a lunatic who talk philosophy , and reason so sound . 
Before the Professor left the room I cautioned him against getting any false impression from my patient . 
But , he answered , I want him to talk of himself and of his delusion as to consuming live things . 
He said to Madam Mina , as I see in your diary of yesterday , that he had once had such a belief . 
Why do you smile , friend John ? Excuse me , I said , but the answer is here . 
I laid my hand on the typewritten matter . 
Van Helsing smiled in turn . 
Your memory is true , friend John . 
And yet it is this very obliquity of thought and memory which makes mental disease such a fascinating study . 
Perhaps I may gain more knowledge out of the folly of this madman than I shall from the teaching of the most wise . 
Who knows ? I went on with my work , and before long was through that in hand . 
It seemed that the time had been very short indeed , but there was Van Helsing back in the study . 
Do I interrupt ? he asked politely as he stood at the door . 
Not at all , I answered . 
My work is finished , and I am free . 
I can go with you now , if you like . 
It is needless , I have seen him ! Well ? I fear that he does not appraise me at much . 
When I entered his room he was sitting on a stool in the center , with his elbows on his knees , and his face was the picture of sullen discontent . 
I spoke to him as cheerfully as I could , and with such a measure of respect as I could assume . 
He made no reply whatever . 
'Don't you know me ? I asked . 
His answer was not reassuring . 
I know you well enough , you are the old fool Van Helsing . 
I wish you would take yourself and your idiotic brain theories somewhere else . 
Friend John , it does rejoice me unspeakable that she is no more to be pained , no more to be worried with our terrible things . 
Though we shall much miss her help , it is better so . 
I agree with you with all my heart , I answered earnestly , for I did not want him to weaken in this matter . 
Mrs. Harker is better out of it . 
So Van Helsing has gone to confer with Mrs. Harker and Harker , Quincey and Art are all out following up the clues as to the earth boxes . 
I shall finish my round of work and we shall meet tonight . 
This morning I slept late after the fatigues of yesterday , and though Jonathan was late too , he was the earlier . 
He spoke to me before he went out , never more sweetly or tenderly , but he never mentioned a word of what had happened in the visit to the Count's house . 
And yet he must have known how terribly anxious I was . 
Poor dear fellow ! I suppose it must have distressed him even more than it did me . 
They all agreed that it was best that I should not be drawn further into this awful work , and I acquiesced . 
That has done me good . 
Well , some day Jonathan will tell me all . 
And lest it should ever be that he should think for a moment that I kept anything from him , I still keep my journal as usual . 
Then if he has feared of my trust I shall show it to him , with every thought of my heart put down for his dear eyes to read . 
I feel strangely sad and low spirited today . 
I suppose it is the reaction from the terrible excitement . 
Last night I went to bed when the men had gone , simply because they told me to . 
I didn't feel sleepy , and I did feel full of devouring anxiety . 
Everything that one does seems , no matter how right it me be , to bring on the very thing which is most to be deplored . 
If I hadn't gone to Whitby , perhaps poor dear Lucy would be with us now . 
She hadn't taken to visiting the churchyard till I came , and if she hadn't come there in the day time with me she wouldn't have walked in her sleep . 
And if she hadn't gone there at night and asleep , that monster couldn't have destroyed her as he did . 
Oh , why did I ever go to Whitby ? There now , crying again ! I wonder what has come over me today . 
I must hide it from Jonathan , for if he knew that I had been crying twice in one morning . 
I , who never cried on my own account , and whom he has never caused to shed a tear , the dear fellow would fret his heart out . 
I shall put a bold face on , and if I do feel weepy , he shall never see it . 
I suppose it is just one of the lessons that we poor women have to learn . 
I can't quite remember how I fell asleep last night . 
And then there was silence over everything , silence so profound that it startled me , and I got up and looked out of the window . 
All was dark and silent , the black shadows thrown by the moonlight seeming full of a silent mystery of their own . 
I think that the digression of my thoughts must have done me good , for when I got back to bed I found a lethargy creeping over me . 
I lay a while , but could not quite sleep , so I got out and looked out of the window again . 
Then there was the sound of a struggle , and I knew that the attendants were dealing with him . 
I was so frightened that I crept into bed , and pulled the clothes over my head , putting my fingers in my ears . 
I think that it took me an effort and a little time to realize where I was , and that it was Jonathan who was bending over me . 
My dream was very peculiar , and was almost typical of the way that waking thoughts become merged in , or continued in , dreams . 
I thought that I was asleep , and waiting for Jonathan to come back . 
And so I slept uneasily and thought . 
Then it began to dawn upon me that the air was heavy , and dank , and cold . 
I put back the clothes from my face , and found , to my surprise , that all was dim around . 
Then it occurred to me that I had shut the window before I had come to bed . 
I would have got out to make certain on the point , but some leaden lethargy seemed to chain my limbs and even my will . 
I lay still and endured , that was all . 
I closed my eyes , but could still see through my eyelids . 
The last conscious effort which imagination made was to show me a livid white face bending over me out of the mist . 
I must be careful of such dreams , for they would unseat one's reason if there were too much of them . 
Seward to prescribe something for me which would make me sleep , only that I fear to alarm them . 
Such a dream at the present time would become woven into their fears for me . 
Tonight I shall strive hard to sleep naturally . 
Last night tired me more than if I had not slept at all . 
October P. M. Last night I slept , but did not dream . 
I must have slept soundly , for I was not waked by Jonathan coming to bed , but the sleep has not refreshed me , for today I feel terribly weak and spiritless . 
I spent all yesterday trying to read , or lying down dozing . 
In the afternoon , Mr. Renfield asked if he might see me . 
Poor man , he was very gentle , and when I came away he kissed my hand and bade God bless me . 
Some way it affected me much . 
I am crying when I think of him . 
This is a new weakness , of which I must be careful . 
Jonathan would be miserable if he knew I had been crying . 
He and the others were out till dinner time , and they all came in tired . 
I did what I could to brighten them up , and I suppose that the effort did me good , for I forgot how tired I was . 
I could see from Jonathan's manner that he had something important to communicate . 
I was not so sleepy as I should have been , so before they went I asked Dr . 
Seward to give me a little opiate of some kind , as I had not slept well the night before . 
He very kindly made me up a sleeping draught , which he gave to me , telling me that it would do me no harm , as it was very mild . 
I have taken it , and am waiting for sleep , which still keeps aloof . 
CHAPTER JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL October , evening . 
I found Thomas Snelling in his house at Bethnal Green , but unhappily he was not in a condition to remember anything . 
The very prospect of beer which my expected coming had opened to him had proved too much , and he had begun too early on his expected debauch . 
So off I drove to Walworth , and found Mr. Joseph Smollet at home and in his shirtsleeves , taking a late tea out of a saucer . 
He is a decent , intelligent fellow , distinctly a good , reliable type of workman , and with a headpiece of his own . 
If then the Count meant to scatter these ghastly refuges of his over London , these places were chosen as the first of delivery , so that later he might distribute more fully . 
The systematic manner in which this was done made me think that he could not mean to confine himself to two sides of London . 
He was now fixed on the far east on the northern shore , on the east of the southern shore , and on the south . 
I went back to Smollet , and asked him if he could tell us if any other boxes had been taken from Carfax . 
He replied , Well guv'nor , you've treated me very 'an'some , I had given him half a sovereign , an I'll tell yer all I know . 
There ain't a many such jobs as this 'ere , an' I'm thinkin' that maybe Sam Bloxam could tell ye summut . 
I asked if he could tell me where to find him . 
I told him that if he could get me the address it would be worth another half sovereign to him . 
So he gulped down the rest of his tea and stood up , saying that he was going to begin the search then and there . 
At the door he stopped , and said , Look 'ere , guv'nor , there ain't no sense in me a keepin' you 'ere . 
I may find Sam soon , or I mayn't , but anyhow he ain't like to be in a way to tell ye much tonight . 
Sam is a rare one when he starts on the booze . 
But ye'd better be up arter 'im soon in the mornin' , never mind the booze the night afore . 
This was all practical , so one of the children went off with a penny to buy an envelope and a sheet of paper , and to keep the change . 
When she came back , I addressed the envelope and stamped it , and when Smollet had again faithfully promised to post the address when found , I took my way to home . 
We're on the track anyhow . 
I am tired tonight , and I want to sleep . 
Mina is fast asleep , and looks a little too pale . 
Her eyes look as though she had been crying . 
Poor dear , I've no doubt it frets her to be kept in the dark , and it may make her doubly anxious about me and the others . 
But it is best as it is . 
It is better to be disappointed and worried in such a way now than to have her nerve broken . 
The doctors were quite right to insist on her being kept out of this dreadful business . 
I must be firm , for on me this particular burden of silence must rest . 
I shall not ever enter on the subject with her under any circumstances . 
October , evening A long and trying and exciting day . 
I got the letter in bed , and rose without waking Mina . 
She looked heavy and sleepy and pale , and far from well . 
I determined not to wake her , but that when I should return from this new search , I would arrange for her going back to Exeter . 
I think she would be happier in our own home , with her daily tasks to interest her , than in being here amongst us and in ignorance . 
Seward for a moment , and told him where I was off to , promising to come back and tell the rest so soon as I should have found out anything . 
I drove to Walworth and found , with some difficulty , Potter's Court . 
Mr. Smollet's spelling misled me , as I asked for Poter's Court instead of Potter's Court . 
However , when I had found the court , I had no difficulty in discovering Corcoran's lodging house . 
When I asked the man who came to the door for the depite , he shook his head , and said , I dunno 'im . 
There ain't no such a person 'ere . 
I never 'eard of 'im in all my bloomin' days . 
Don't believe there ain't nobody of that kind livin' 'ere or anywheres . 
I took out Smollet's letter , and as I read it it seemed to me that the lesson of the spelling of the name of the court might guide me . 
What are you ? I asked . 
I'm the depity , he answered . 
I saw at once that I was on the right track . 
Phonetic spelling had again misled me . 
It was twelve o'clock before I got any satisfactory hint of such a building , and this I got at a coffee shop , where some workmen were having their dinner . 
An interview with a surly gatekeeper and a surlier foreman , both of whom were appeased with the coin of the realm , put me on the track of Bloxam . 
He was sent for on my suggestion that I was willing to pay his days wages to his foreman for the privilege of asking him a few questions on a private matter . 
He was a smart enough fellow , though rough of speech and bearing . 
It was a dusty old 'ouse , too , though nothin' to the dustiness of the 'ouse we tooked the bloomin' boxes from . 
How did you get in if both houses were empty ? There was the old party what engaged me a waitin' in the 'ouse at Purfleet . 
He 'elped me to lift the boxes and put them in the dray . 
How did you get into the house in Piccadilly ? I asked . 
The whole nine ? I asked . 
Yus , there was five in the first load an' four in the second . 
It was main dry work , an' I don't so well remember 'ow I got 'ome . 
I interrupted him , Were the boxes left in the hall ? Yus , it was a big 'all , an' there was nothin' else in it . 
I made one more attempt to further matters . 
You didn't have any key ? Never used no key nor nothink . 
The old gent , he opened the door 'isself an' shut it again when I druv off . 
I don't remember the last time , but that was the beer . 
And you can't remember the number of the house ? No , sir . 
But ye needn't have no difficulty about that . 
It's a 'igh 'un with a stone front with a bow on it , an' 'igh steps up to the door . 
I know them steps , 'avin' 'ad to carry the boxes up with three loafers what come round to earn a copper . 
The old gent give them shillin's , an' they seein' they got so much , they wanted more . 
But 'e took one of them by the shoulder and was like to throw 'im down the steps , till the lot of them went away cussin' . 
I thought that with this description I could find the house , so having paid my friend for his information , I started off for Piccadilly . 
I had gained a new painful experience . 
The Count could , it was evident , handle the earth boxes himself . 
If so , time was precious , for now that he had achieved a certain amount of distribution , he could , by choosing his own time , complete the task unobserved . 
At Piccadilly Circus I discharged my cab , and walked westward . 
Beyond the Junior Constitutional I came across the house described and was satisfied that this was the next of the lairs arranged by Dracula . 
The house looked as though it had been long untenanted . 
The windows were encrusted with dust , and the shutters were up . 
All the framework was black with time , and from the iron the paint had mostly scaled away . 
It was evident that up to lately there had been a large notice board in front of the balcony . 
It had , however , been roughly torn away , the uprights which had supported it still remaining . 
Behind the rails of the balcony I saw there were some loose boards , whose raw edges looked white . 
The mews were active , the Piccadilly houses being mostly in occupation . 
I asked one or two of the grooms and helpers whom I saw around if they could tell me anything about the empty house . 
One of them said that he heard it had lately been taken , but he couldn't say from whom . 
I did not wish to seem too eager , or to let my informant know or guess too much , so thanking him in the usual manner , I strolled away . 
It was now growing dusk , and the autumn night was closing in , so I did not lose any time . 
Having learned the address of Mitchell , Sons , Candy from a directory at the Berkeley , I was soon at their office in Sackville Street . 
The gentleman who saw me was particularly suave in manner , but uncommunicative in equal proportion . 
Having once told me that the Piccadilly house , which throughout our interview he called a mansion , was sold , he considered my business as concluded . 
When I asked who had purchased it , he opened his eyes a thought wider , and paused a few seconds before replying , It is sold , sir . 
Pardon me , I said , with equal politeness , but I have a special reason for wishing to know who purchased it . 
Again he paused longer , and raised his eyebrows still more . 
It is sold , sir , was again his laconic reply . 
Surely , I said , you do not mind letting me know so much . 
But I do mind , he answered . 
The affairs of their clients are absolutely safe in the hands of Mitchell , Sons , Candy . 
This was manifestly a prig of the first water , and there was no use arguing with him . 
I thought I had best meet him on his own ground , so I said , Your clients , sir , are happy in having so resolute a guardian of their confidence . 
I am myself a professional man . 
Here I handed him my card . 
These words put a different complexion on affairs . 
He said , I would like to oblige you if I could , Mr. Harker , and especially would I like to oblige his lordship . 
We once carried out a small matter of renting some chambers for him when he was the Honorable Arthur Holmwood . 
If you will let me have his lordship's address I will consult the House on the subject , and will , in any case , communicate with his lordship by tonight's post . 
It will be a pleasure if we can so far deviate from our rules as to give the required information to his lordship . 
I wanted to secure a friend , and not to make an enemy , so I thanked him , gave the address at Dr . 
It was now dark , and I was tired and hungry . 
I got a cup of tea at the Aerated Bread Company and came down to Purfleet by the next train . 
I found all the others at home . 
Mina was looking tired and pale , but she made a gallant effort to be bright and cheerful . 
It wrung my heart to think that I had had to keep anything from her and so caused her inquietude . 
Thank God , this will be the last night of her looking on at our conferences , and feeling the sting of our not showing our confidence . 
It took all my courage to hold to the wise resolution of keeping her out of our grim task . 
She seems somehow more reconciled , or else the very subject seems to have become repugnant to her , for when any accidental allusion is made she actually shudders . 
I am glad we made our resolution in time , as with such a feeling as this , our growing knowledge would be torture to her . 
Thank God , the ceasing of telling things has made no difference between us . 
When I came down again I found the others all gathered round the fire in the study . 
In the train I had written my diary so far , and simply read it off to them as the best means of letting them get abreast of my own information . 
When I had finished Van Helsing said , This has been a great day's work , friend Jonathan . 
Doubtless we are on the track of the missing boxes . 
If we find them all in that house , then our work is near the end . 
But if there be some missing , we must search until we find them . 
Then shall we make our final coup , and hunt the wretch to his real death . 
But , Art , this is different . 
We broke house at Carfax , but we had night and a walled park to protect us . 
It will be a mighty different thing to commit burglary in Piccadilly , either by day or night . 
I confess I don't see how we are going to get in unless that agency duck can find us a key of some sort . 
Lord Godalming's brows contracted , and he stood up and walked about the room . 
By and by he stopped and said , turning from one to another of us , Quincey's head is level . 
This burglary business is getting serious . 
We got off once all right , but we have now a rare job on hand . 
Unless we can find the Count's key basket . 
For a good while we sat and smoked , discussing the matter in its various lights and bearings . 
I took the opportunity of bringing this diary right up to the moment . 
I am very sleepy and shall go to bed . 
Mina sleeps soundly and her breathing is regular . 
Her forehead is puckered up into little wrinkles , as though she thinks even in her sleep . 
She is still too pale , but does not look so haggard as she did this morning . 
Tomorrow will , I hope , mend all this . 
She will be herself at home in Exeter . 
Oh , but I am sleepy ! DR . 
I am puzzled afresh about Renfield . 
This morning , when I went to see him after his repulse of Van Helsing , his manner was that of a man commanding destiny . 
He was , in fact , commanding destiny , subjectively . 
He did not really care for any of the things of mere earth , he was in the clouds and looked down on all the weaknesses and wants of us poor mortals . 
It's wings are typical of the aerial powers of the psychic faculties . 
He said , Oh , no , oh no ! I want no souls . 
Life is all I want . 
I am pretty indifferent about it at present . 
I have all I want . 
You must get a new patient , doctor , if you wish to study zoophagy ! This puzzled me a little , so I drew him on . 
You are a god , I suppose ? He smiled with an ineffably benign superiority . 
Oh no ! Far be it from me to arrogate to myself the attributes of the Deity . 
I am not even concerned in His especially spiritual doings . 
If I may state my intellectual position I am , so far as concerns things purely terrestrial , somewhat in the position which Enoch occupied spiritually ! This was a poser to me . 
And why with Enoch ? Because he walked with God . 
I could not see the analogy , but did not like to admit it , so I harked back to what he had denied . 
So you don't care about life and you don't want souls . 
Why not ? I put my question quickly and somewhat sternly , on purpose to disconcert him . 
The effort succeeded , for an instant he unconsciously relapsed into his old servile manner , bent low before me , and actually fawned upon me as he replied . 
I don't want any souls , indeed , indeed ! I don't . 
I couldn't use them if I had them . 
They would be no manner of use to me . 
I couldn't eat them or . 
He suddenly stopped and the old cunning look spread over his face , like a wind sweep on the surface of the water . 
And doctor , as to life , what is it after all ? When you've got all you require , and you know that you will never want , that is all . 
I have friends , good friends , like you , Dr . 
This was said with a leer of inexpressible cunning . 
After a short time I saw that for the present it was useless to speak to him . 
He was sulky , and so I came away . 
Later in the day he sent for me . 
Ordinarily I would not have come without special reason , but just at present I am so interested in him that I would gladly make an effort . 
Besides , I am glad to have anything to help pass the time . 
Harker is out , following up clues , and so are Lord Godalming and Quincey . 
Van Helsing sits in my study poring over the record prepared by the Harkers . 
He seems to think that by accurate knowledge of all details he will light up on some clue . 
He does not wish to be disturbed in the work , without cause . 
I would have taken him with me to see the patient , only I thought that after his last repulse he might not care to go again . 
There was also another reason . 
Renfield might not speak so freely before a third person as when he and I were alone . 
I found him sitting in the middle of the floor on his stool , a pose which is generally indicative of some mental energy on his part . 
When I came in , he said at once , as though the question had been waiting on his lips . 
What about souls ? It was evident then that my surmise had been correct . 
Unconscious cerebration was doing its work , even with the lunatic . 
I determined to have the matter out . 
What about them yourself ? I asked . 
He did not reply for a moment but looked all around him , and up and down , as though he expected to find some inspiration for an answer . 
I don't want any souls ! He said in a feeble , apologetic way . 
The matter seemed preying on his mind , and so I determined to use it , to be cruel only to be kind . 
So I said , You like life , and you want life ? Oh yes ! But that is all right . 
There was something pathetic in it that touched me . 
Or spiders ? I went on . 
Blow spiders ! What's the use of spiders ? There isn't anything in them to eat or . 
He stopped suddenly as though reminded of a forbidden topic . 
So , so ! I thought to myself , this is the second time he has suddenly stopped at the word drink' . 
Rats and mice and such small deer , as Shakespeare has it , chicken feed of the larder' they might be called . 
I'm past all that sort of nonsense . 
I see , I said . 
I don't want an elephant's soul , or any soul at all ! he said . 
For a few moments he sat despondently . 
Suddenly he jumped to his feet , with his eyes blazing and all the signs of intense cerebral excitement . 
To hell with you and your souls ! he shouted . 
The instant , however , that I did so he became calm , and said apologetically , Forgive me , Doctor . 
You do not need any help . 
I am so worried in my mind that I am apt to be irritable . 
If you only knew the problem I have to face , and that I am working out , you would pity , and tolerate , and pardon me . 
Pray do not put me in a strait waistcoat . 
I want to think and I cannot think freely when my body is confined . 
I am sure you will understand ! He had evidently self control , so when the attendants came I told them not to mind , and they withdrew . 
When the door was closed he said with considerable dignity and sweetness , Dr . 
Seward , you have been very considerate towards me . 
Believe me that I am very , very grateful to you ! I thought it well to leave him in this mood , and so I came away . 
There is certainly something to ponder over in this man's state . 
Several points seem to make what the American interviewer calls a story , if one could only get them in proper order . 
Here they are Will not mention drinking . 
Fears the thought of being burdened with the soul of anything . 
Has no dread of wanting life in the future . 
Despises the meaner forms of life altogether , though he dreads being haunted by their souls . 
Logically all these things point one way ! He has assurance of some kind that he will acquire some higher life . 
He dreads the consequence , the burden of a soul . 
Then it is a human life he looks to ! And the assurance . 
? Merciful God ! The Count has been to him , and there is some new scheme of terror afoot ! Later . 
I went after my round to Van Helsing and told him my suspicion . 
He grew very grave , and after thinking the matter over for a while asked me to take him to Renfield . 
As we came to the door we heard the lunatic within singing gaily , as he used to do in the time which now seems so long ago . 
When we entered we saw with amazement that he had spread out his sugar as of old . 
The flies , lethargic with the autumn , were beginning to buzz into the room . 
We tried to make him talk of the subject of our previous conversation , but he would not attend . 
He went on with his singing , just as though we had not been present . 
He had got a scrap of paper and was folding it into a notebook . 
We had to come away as ignorant as we went in . 
His is a curious case indeed . 
We must watch him tonight . 
LETTER , MITCHELL , SONS CANDY TO LORD GODALMING . 
My Lord , We are at all times only too happy to meet your wishes . 
The original vendors are the executors of the late Mr. Archibald Winter Suffield . 
Beyond this we know nothing whatever of him . 
We are , my Lord , Your Lordship's humble servants , MITCHELL , SONS CANDY . 
After dinner , when we had all gathered round the fire in the study , Mrs. Harker having gone to bed , we discussed the attempts and discoveries of the day . 
Harker was the only one who had any result , and we are in great hopes that his clue may be an important one . 
Before going to bed I went round to the patient's room and looked in through the observation trap . 
He was sleeping soundly , his heart rose and fell with regular respiration . 
This morning the man on duty reported to me that a little after midnight he was restless and kept saying his prayers somewhat loudly . 
I asked him if that was all . 
He replied that it was all he heard . 
There was something about his manner , so suspicious that I asked him point blank if he had been asleep . 
He denied sleep , but admitted to having dozed for a while . 
It is too bad that men cannot be trusted unless they are watched . 
Today Harker is out following up his clue , and Art and Quincey are looking after horses . 
Godalming thinks that it will be well to have horses always in readiness , for when we get the information which we seek there will be no time to lose . 
We must sterilize all the imported earth between sunrise and sunset . 
We shall thus catch the Count at his weakest , and without a refuge to fly to . 
Van Helsing is off to the British Museum looking up some authorities on ancient medicine . 
The old physicians took account of things which their followers do not accept , and the Professor is searching for witch and demon cures which may be useful to us later . 
I sometimes think we must be all mad and that we shall wake to sanity in strait waistcoats . 
We seem at last to be on the track , and our work of tomorrow may be the beginning of the end . 
I wonder if Renfield's quiet has anything to do with this . 
His moods have so followed the doings of the Count , that the coming destruction of the monster may be carried to him some subtle way . 
He is now seemingly quiet for a spell . 
Is he ? That wild yell seemed to come from his room . 
The attendant came bursting into my room and told me that Renfield had somehow met with some accident . 
He had heard him yell , and when he went to him found him lying on his face on the floor , all covered with blood . 
I must go at once . 
Let me put down with exactness all that happened , as well as I can remember , since last I made an entry . 
Not a detail that I can recall must be forgotten . 
In all calmness I must proceed . 
When I came to Renfield's room I found him lying on the floor on his left side in a glittering pool of blood . 
When I went to move him , it became at once apparent that he had received some terrible injuries . 
There seemed none of the unity of purpose between the parts of the body which marks even lethargic sanity . 
As the face was exposed I could see that it was horribly bruised , as though it had been beaten against the floor . 
Indeed it was from the face wounds that the pool of blood originated . 
The attendant who was kneeling beside the body said to me as we turned him over , I think , sir , his back is broken . 
See , both his right arm and leg and the whole side of his face are paralysed . 
How such a thing could have happened puzzled the attendant beyond measure . 
He seemed quite bewildered , and his brows were gathered in as he said , I can't understand the two things . 
He could mark his face like that by beating his own head on the floor . 
I saw a young woman do it once at the Eversfield Asylum before anyone could lay hands on her . 
And I suppose he might have broken his neck by falling out of bed , if he got in an awkward kink . 
But for the life of me I can't imagine how the two things occurred . 
If his back was broke , he couldn't beat his head , and if his face was like that before the fall out of bed , there would be marks of it . 
I said to him , Go to Dr . 
Van Helsing , and ask him to kindly come here at once . 
I want him without an instant's delay . 
The man ran off , and within a few minutes the Professor , in his dressing gown and slippers , appeared . 
When he saw Renfield on the ground , he looked keenly at him a moment , and then turned to me . 
I shall stay with you myself , but I shall first dress myself . 
If you will remain I shall in a few minutes join you . 
The patient was now breathing stertorously and it was easy to see that he had suffered some terrible injury . 
Van Helsing returned with extraordinary celerity , bearing with him a surgical case . 
He had evidently been thinking and had his mind made up , for almost before he looked at the patient , he whispered to me , Send the attendant away . 
We must be alone with him when he becomes conscious , after the operation . 
I said , I think that will do now , Simmons . 
We have done all that we can at present . 
You had better go your round , and Dr . 
Let me know instantly if there be anything unusual anywhere . 
The man withdrew , and we went into a strict examination of the patient . 
The wounds of the face were superficial . 
The real injury was a depressed fracture of the skull , extending right up through the motor area . 
The Professor thought a moment and said , We must reduce the pressure and get back to normal conditions , as far as can be . 
The rapidity of the suffusion shows the terrible nature of his injury . 
The whole motor area seems affected . 
The suffusion of the brain will increase quickly , so we must trephine at once or it may be too late . 
As he was speaking there was a soft tapping at the door . 
I went over and opened it and found in the corridor without , Arthur and Quincey in pajamas and slippers , the former spoke , I heard your man call up Dr . 
Van Helsing and tell him of an accident . 
So I woke Quincey or rather called for him as he was not asleep . 
Things are moving too quickly and too strangely for sound sleep for any of us these times . 
I've been thinking that tomorrow night will not see things as they have been . 
We'll have to look back , and forward a little more than we have done . 
May we come in ? I nodded , and held the door open till they had entered , then I closed it again . 
He went at once and sat down on the edge of the bed , with Godalming beside him . 
We all watched in patience . 
The minutes during which we waited passed with fearful slowness . 
I had a horrible sinking in my heart , and from Van Helsing's face I gathered that he felt some fear or apprehension as to what was to come . 
I dreaded the words Renfield might speak . 
I was positively afraid to think . 
But the conviction of what was coming was on me , as I have read of men who have heard the death watch . 
The poor man's breathing came in uncertain gasps . 
Each instant he seemed as though he would open his eyes and speak , but then would follow a prolonged stertorous breath , and he would relapse into a more fixed insensibility . 
Inured as I was to sick beds and death , this suspense grew and grew upon me . 
I could almost hear the beating of my own heart , and the blood surging through my temples sounded like blows from a hammer . 
The silence finally became agonizing . 
I looked at my companions , one after another , and saw from their flushed faces and damp brows that they were enduring equal torture . 
There was a nervous suspense over us all , as though overhead some dread bell would peal out powerfully when we should least expect it . 
At last there came a time when it was evident that the patient was sinking fast . 
He might die at any moment . 
I looked up at the Professor and caught his eyes fixed on mine . 
His face was sternly set as he spoke , There is no time to lose . 
His words may be worth many lives . 
I have been thinking so , as I stood here . 
It may be there is a soul at stake ! We shall operate just above the ear . 
Without another word he made the operation . 
For a few moments the breathing continued to be stertorous . 
Then there came a breath so prolonged that it seemed as though it would tear open his chest . 
Suddenly his eyes opened , and became fixed in a wild , helpless stare . 
This was continued for a few moments , then it was softened into a glad surprise , and from his lips came a sigh of relief . 
He moved convulsively , and as he did so , said , I'll be quiet , Doctor . 
Tell them to take off the strait waistcoat . 
I have had a terrible dream , and it has left me so weak that I cannot move . 
What's wrong with my face ? It feels all swollen , and it smarts dreadfully . 
He tried to turn his head , but even with the effort his eyes seemed to grow glassy again so I gently put it back . 
Then Van Helsing said in a quiet grave tone , Tell us your dream , Mr. Renfield . 
As he heard the voice his face brightened , through its mutilation , and he said , That is Dr . 
How good it is of you to be here . 
Give me some water , my lips are dry , and I shall try to tell you . 
He stopped and seemed fainting . 
We moistened the parched lips , and the patient quickly revived . 
It was no dream , but all a grim reality . 
Then his eyes roved round the room . 
As they caught sight of the two figures sitting patiently on the edge of the bed he went on , If I were not sure already , I would know from them . 
For an instant his eyes closed , not with pain or sleep but voluntarily , as though he were bringing all his faculties to bear . 
I have something that I must say before I die . 
Or before my poor crushed brain dies anyhow . 
Thank you ! It was that night after you left me , when I implored you to let me go away . 
I couldn't speak then , for I felt my tongue was tied . 
But I was as sane then , except in that way , as I am now . 
I was in an agony of despair for a long time after you left me , it seemed hours . 
Then there came a sudden peace to me . 
My brain seemed to become cool again , and I realized where I was . 
He did not , however , betray himself . 
He nodded slightly and said , Go on , in a low voice . 
I wouldn't ask him to come in at first , though I knew he wanted to , just as he had wanted all along . 
Then he began promising me things , not in words but by doing them . 
He was interrupted by a word from the Professor , How ? By making them happen . 
Just as he used to send in the flies when the sun was shining . 
Great big fat ones with steel and sapphire on their wings . 
And big moths , in the night , with skull and cross bones on their backs . 
Rats , rats , rats ! Hundreds , thousands , millions of them , and every one a life . 
And dogs to eat them , and cats too . 
Then the dogs howled , away beyond the dark trees in His house . 
He beckoned me to the window . 
I got up and looked out , and He raised his hands , and seemed to call out without using any words . 
A dark mass spread over the grass , coming on like the shape of a flame of fire . 
And then He moved the mist to the right and left , and I could see that there were thousands of rats with their eyes blazing red , like His only smaller . 
I was about to call him back to the point , but Van Helsing whispered to me , Let him go on . 
He cannot go back , and maybe could not proceed at all if once he lost the thread of his thought . 
When he did slide in through the window , though it was shut , and did not even knock , I got mad with him . 
He didn't even smell the same as he went by me . 
I thought that , somehow , Mrs. Harker had come into the room . 
The two men sitting on the bed stood up and came over , standing behind him so that he could not see them , but where they could hear better . 
They were both silent , but the Professor started and quivered . 
His face , however , grew grimmer and sterner still . 
Renfield went on without noticing , When Mrs. Harker came in to see me this afternoon she wasn't the same . 
It was like tea after the teapot has been watered . 
Here we all moved , but no one said a word . 
He went on , I didn't know that she was here till she spoke , and she didn't look the same . 
I don't care for the pale people . 
I like them with lots of blood in them , and hers all seemed to have run out . 
I could feel that the rest quivered , as I did . 
But we remained otherwise still . 
So when He came tonight I was ready for Him . 
I saw the mist stealing in , and I grabbed it tight . 
I had heard that madmen have unnatural strength . 
And as I knew I was a madman , at times anyhow , I resolved to use my power . 
Ay , and He felt it too , for He had to come out of the mist to struggle with me . 
I held tight , and I thought I was going to win , for I didn't mean Him to take any more of her life , till I saw His eyes . 
They burned into me , and my strength became like water . 
He slipped through it , and when I tried to cling to Him , He raised me up and flung me down . 
There was a red cloud before me , and a noise like thunder , and the mist seemed to steal away under the door . 
His voice was becoming fainter and his breath more stertorous . 
Van Helsing stood up instinctively . 
We know the worst now , he said . 
He is here , and we know his purpose . 
It may not be too late . 
Let us be armed , the same as we were the other night , but lose no time , there is not an instant to spare . 
There was no need to put our fear , nay our conviction , into words , we shared them in common . 
We all hurried and took from our rooms the same things that we had when we entered the Count's house . 
Be wise also , my friends . 
Outside the Harkers' door we paused . 
Art and Quincey held back , and the latter said , Should we disturb her ? We must , said Van Helsing grimly . 
If the door be locked , I shall break it in . 
May it not frighten her terribly ? It is unusual to break into a lady's room ! Van Helsing said solemnly , You are always right . 
But this is life and death . 
All chambers are alike to the doctor . 
And even were they not they are all as one to me tonight . 
Friend John , when I turn the handle , if the door does not open , do you put your shoulder down and shove . 
And you too , my friends . 
Now ! He turned the handle as he spoke , but the door did not yield . 
We threw ourselves against it . 
With a crash it burst open , and we almost fell headlong into the room . 
The Professor did actually fall , and I saw across him as he gathered himself up from hands and knees . 
What I saw appalled me . 
I felt my hair rise like bristles on the back of my neck , and my heart seemed to stand still . 
The moonlight was so bright that through the thick yellow blind the room was light enough to see . 
On the bed beside the window lay Jonathan Harker , his face flushed and breathing heavily as though in a stupor . 
Kneeling on the near edge of the bed facing outwards was the white clad figure of his wife . 
By her side stood a tall , thin man , clad in black . 
His face was turned from us , but the instant we saw we all recognized the Count , in every way , even to the scar on his forehead . 
With his left hand he held both Mrs. Harker's hands , keeping them away with her arms at full tension . 
His right hand gripped her by the back of the neck , forcing her face down on his bosom . 
Her white nightdress was smeared with blood , and a thin stream trickled down the man's bare chest which was shown by his torn open dress . 
The attitude of the two had a terrible resemblance to a child forcing a kitten's nose into a saucer of milk to compel it to drink . 
As we burst into the room , the Count turned his face , and the hellish look that I had heard described seemed to leap into it . 
His eyes flamed red with devilish passion . 
With a wrench , which threw his victim back upon the bed as though hurled from a height , he turned and sprang at us . 
But by this time the Professor had gained his feet , and was holding towards him the envelope which contained the Sacred Wafer . 
The Count suddenly stopped , just as poor Lucy had done outside the tomb , and cowered back . 
Further and further back he cowered , as we , lifting our crucifixes , advanced . 
The moonlight suddenly failed , as a great black cloud sailed across the sky . 
And when the gaslight sprang up under Quincey's match , we saw nothing but a faint vapor . 
This , as we looked , trailed under the door , which with the recoil from its bursting open , had swung back to its old position . 
For a few seconds she lay in her helpless attitude and disarray . 
Her face was ghastly , with a pallor which was accentuated by the blood which smeared her lips and cheeks and chin . 
From her throat trickled a thin stream of blood . 
Her eyes were mad with terror . 
Van Helsing stepped forward and drew the coverlet gently over her body , whilst Art , after looking at her face for an instant despairingly , ran out of the room . 
Van Helsing whispered to me , Jonathan is in a stupor such as we know the Vampire can produce . 
We can do nothing with poor Madam Mina for a few moments till she recovers herself . 
I raised the blind , and looked out of the window . 
There was much moonshine , and as I looked I could see Quincey Morris run across the lawn and hide himself in the shadow of a great yew tree . 
It puzzled me to think why he was doing this . 
But at the instant I heard Harker's quick exclamation as he woke to partial consciousness , and turned to the bed . 
On his face , as there might well be , was a look of wild amazement . 
He seemed dazed for a few seconds , and then full consciousness seemed to burst upon him all at once , and he started up . 
His wife was aroused by the quick movement , and turned to him with her arms stretched out , as though to embrace him . 
Instantly , however , she drew them in again , and putting her elbows together , held her hands before her face , and shuddered till the bed beneath her shook . 
In God's name what does this mean ? Harker cried out . 
What has happened ? Tell me all about it ! he cried without pausing . 
Van Helsing you love Mina , I know . 
Oh , do something to save her . 
It cannot have gone too far yet . 
Guard her while I look for him ! His wife , through her terror and horror and distress , saw some sure danger to him . 
Instantly forgetting her own grief , she seized hold of him and cried out . 
No ! No ! Jonathan , you must not leave me . 
I have suffered enough tonight , God knows , without the dread of his harming you . 
You must stay with me . 
Stay with these friends who will watch over you ! Her expression became frantic as she spoke . 
And , he yielding to her , she pulled him down sitting on the bedside , and clung to him fiercely . 
Van Helsing and I tried to calm them both . 
The Professor held up his golden crucifix , and said with wonderful calmness , Do not fear , my dear . 
We are here , and whilst this is close to you no foul thing can approach . 
You are safe for tonight , and we must be calm and take counsel together . 
She shuddered and was silent , holding down her head on her husband's breast . 
When she raised it , his white nightrobe was stained with blood where her lips had touched , and where the thin open wound in the neck had sent forth drops . 
The instant she saw it she drew back , with a low wail , and whispered , amidst choking sobs . 
Unclean , unclean ! I must touch him or kiss him no more . 
Oh , that it should be that it is I who am now his worst enemy , and whom he may have most cause to fear . 
To this he spoke out resolutely , Nonsense , Mina . 
It is a shame to me to hear such a word . 
I would not hear it of you . 
And I shall not hear it from you . 
And for a while she lay there sobbing . 
He looked at us over her bowed head , with eyes that blinked damply above his quivering nostrils . 
His mouth was set as steel . 
Seward , tell me all about it . 
Too well I know the broad fact . 
Tell me all that has been . 
Just as I had finished , Quincey and Godalming knocked at the door . 
They entered in obedience to our summons . 
Van Helsing looked at me questioningly . 
I understood him to mean if we were to take advantage of their coming to divert if possible the thoughts of the unhappy husband and wife from each other and from themselves . 
So on nodding acquiescence to him he asked them what they had seen or done . 
To which Lord Godalming answered . 
I could not see him anywhere in the passage , or in any of our rooms . 
I looked in the study but , though he had been there , he had gone . 
He stopped suddenly , looking at the poor drooping figure on the bed . 
Van Helsing said gravely , Go on , friend Arthur . 
We want here no more concealments . 
Our hope now is in knowing all . 
Tell freely ! So Art went on , He had been there , and though it could only have been for a few seconds , he made rare hay of the place . 
All the manuscript had been burned , and the blue flames were flickering amongst the white ashes . 
The cylinders of your phonograph too were thrown on the fire , and the wax had helped the flames . 
Thank God there is the other copy in the safe ! His face lit for a moment , but fell again as he went on . 
I ran downstairs then , but could see no sign of him . 
I looked into Renfield's room , but there was no trace there except . 
Go on , said Harker hoarsely . 
So he bowed his head and moistening his lips with his tongue , added , except that the poor fellow is dead . 
But , as I took it that it was with a purpose , I said nothing . 
Van Helsing turned to Morris and asked , And you , friend Quincey , have you any to tell ? A little , he answered . 
It may be much eventually , but at present I can't say . 
I thought it well to know if possible where the Count would go when he left the house . 
I did not see him , but I saw a bat rise from Renfield's window , and flap westward . 
I expected to see him in some shape go back to Carfax , but he evidently sought some other lair . 
He will not be back tonight , for the sky is reddening in the east , and the dawn is close . 
We must work tomorrow ! He said the latter words through his shut teeth . 
For a space of perhaps a couple of minutes there was silence , and I could fancy that I could hear the sound of our hearts beating . 
Then Van Helsing said , placing his hand tenderly on Mrs. Harker's head , And now , Madam Mina , poor dear , dear , Madam Mina , tell us exactly what happened . 
God knows that I do not want that you be pained , but it is need that we know all . 
For now more than ever has all work to be done quick and sharp , and in deadly earnest . 
The day is close to us that must end all , if it may be so , and now is the chance that we may live and learn . 
Then she raised her head proudly , and held out one hand to Van Helsing who took it in his , and after stooping and kissing it reverently , held it fast . 
The other hand was locked in that of her husband , who held his other arm thrown round her protectingly . 
After a pause in which she was evidently ordering her thoughts , she began . 
I took the sleeping draught which you had so kindly given me , but for a long time it did not act . 
I seemed to become more wakeful , and myriads of horrible fancies began to crowd in upon my mind . 
All of them connected with death , and vampires , with blood , and pain , and trouble . 
Her husband involuntarily groaned as she turned to him and said lovingly , Do not fret , dear . 
You must be brave and strong , and help me through the horrible task . 
If you only knew what an effort it is to me to tell of this fearful thing at all , you would understand how much I need your help . 
Sure enough sleep must soon have come to me , for I remember no more . 
Jonathan coming in had not waked me , for he lay by my side when next I remember . 
There was in the room the same thin white mist that I had before noticed . 
But I forget now if you know of this . 
You will find it in my diary which I shall show you later . 
I felt the same vague terror which had come to me before and the same sense of some presence . 
This caused me a great fear , and I looked around terrified . 
Then indeed , my heart sank within me . 
I knew him at once from the description of the others . 
I knew , too , the red scar on his forehead where Jonathan had struck him . 
For an instant my heart stood still , and I would have screamed out , only that I was paralyzed . 
In the pause he spoke in a sort of keen , cutting whisper , pointing as he spoke to Jonathan . 
Silence ! If you make a sound I shall take him and dash his brains out before your very eyes . 
I was appalled and was too bewildered to do or say anything . 
You may as well be quiet . 
I suppose it is a part of the horrible curse that such is , when his touch is on his victim . 
And oh , my God , my God , pity me ! He placed his reeking lips upon my throat ! Her husband groaned again . 
She clasped his hand harder , and looked at him pityingly , as if he were the injured one , and went on . 
I felt my strength fading away , and I was in a half swoon . 
How long this horrible thing lasted I know not , but it seemed that a long time must have passed before he took his foul , awful , sneering mouth away . 
I saw it drip with the fresh blood ! The remembrance seemed for a while to overpower her , and she drooped and would have sunk down but for her husband's sustaining arm . 
With a great effort she recovered herself and went on . 
Then he spoke to me mockingly , And so you , like the others , would play your brains against mine . 
They should have kept their energies for use closer to home . 
You shall be avenged in turn , for not one of them but shall minister to your needs . 
But as yet you are to be punished for what you have done . 
You have aided in thwarting me . 
Now you shall come to my call . 
When my brain says Come ! to you , you shall cross land or sea to do my bidding . 
And to that end this ! With that he pulled open his shirt , and with his long sharp nails opened a vein in his breast . 
God pity me ! Look down on a poor soul in worse than mortal peril . 
And in mercy pity those to whom she is dear ! Then she began to rub her lips as though to cleanse them from pollution . 
As she was telling her terrible story , the eastern sky began to quicken , and everything became more and more clear . 
Harker was still and quiet . 
We have arranged that one of us is to stay within call of the unhappy pair till we can meet together and arrange about taking action . 
Of this I am sure . 
The sun rises today on no more miserable house in all the great round of its daily course . 
CHAPTER JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL October . 
As I must do something or go mad , I write this diary . 
It is now six o'clock , and we are to meet in the study in half an hour and take something to eat , for Dr . 
Seward are agreed that if we do not eat we cannot work our best . 
Our best will be , God knows , required today . 
I must keep writing at every chance , for I dare not stop to think . 
All , big and little , must go down . 
Perhaps at the end the little things may teach us most . 
The teaching , big or little , could not have landed Mina or me anywhere worse than we are today . 
However , we must trust and hope . 
Poor Mina told me just now , with the tears running down her dear cheeks , that it is in trouble and trial that our faith is tested . 
That we must keep on trusting , and that God will aid us up to the end . 
The end ! Oh my God ! What end ? . 
To work ! To work ! When Dr . 
Seward had come back from seeing poor Renfield , we went gravely into what was to be done . 
Seward told us that when he and Dr . 
Van Helsing had gone down to the room below they had found Renfield lying on the floor , all in a heap . 
His face was all bruised and crushed in , and the bones of the neck were broken . 
Seward asked the attendant who was on duty in the passage if he had heard anything . 
Van Helsing asked if he had heard voices or a voice , and he said he could not say . 
That at first it had seemed to him as if there were two , but as there was no one in the room it could have been only one . 
He could swear to it , if required , that the word God was spoken by the patient . 
Seward said to us , when we were alone , that he did not wish to go into the matter . 
The question of an inquest had to be considered , and it would never do to put forward the truth , as no one would believe it . 
As it was , he thought that on the attendant's evidence he could give a certificate of death by misadventure in falling from bed . 
In case the coroner should demand it , there would be a formal inquest , necessarily to the same result . 
When the question began to be discussed as to what should be our next step , the very first thing we decided was that Mina should be in full confidence . 
That nothing of any sort , no matter how painful , should be kept from her . 
She herself agreed as to its wisdom , and it was pitiful to see her so brave and yet so sorrowful , and in such a depth of despair . 
There must be no concealment , she said . 
Alas ! We have had too much already . 
If there were no friend who loved me , who would save me such a pain , and so desperate an effort ! She looked at him meaningly as she spoke . 
He was sitting down , but now he rose and came close to her and put his hand on her head as he said solemnly . 
My child , there is such an one if it were for your good . 
For myself I could hold it in my account with God to find such an euthanasia for you , even at this moment if it were best . 
Nay , were it safe ! But my child . 
For a moment he seemed choked , and a great sob rose in his throat . 
He gulped it down and went on , There are here some who would stand between you and death . 
You must not die by any hand , but least of all your own . 
Until the other , who has fouled your sweet life , is true dead you must not die . 
For if he is still with the quick Undead , your death would make you even as he is . 
No , you must live ! You must struggle and strive to live , though death would seem a boon unspeakable . 
You must fight Death himself , though he come to you in pain or in joy . 
By the day , or the night , in safety or in peril ! On your living soul I charge you that you do not die . 
Nay , nor think of death , till this great evil be past . 
The poor dear grew white as death , and shook and shivered , as I have seen a quicksand shake and shiver at the incoming of the tide . 
Till , if it may be in His good time , this horror may have passed away from me . 
She was so good and brave that we all felt that our hearts were strengthened to work and endure for her , and we began to discuss what we were to do . 
She was pleased with the prospect of anything to do , if pleased could be used in connection with so grim an interest . 
As usual Van Helsing had thought ahead of everyone else , and was prepared with an exact ordering of our work . 
It is perhaps well , he said , that at our meeting after our visit to Carfax we decided not to do anything with the earth boxes that lay there . 
Had we done so , the Count must have guessed our purpose , and would doubtless have taken measures in advance to frustrate such an effort with regard to the others . 
But now he does not know our intentions . 
We are now so much further advanced in our knowledge as to their disposition that , when we have examined the house in Piccadilly , we may track the very last of them . 
Today then , is ours , and in it rests our hope . 
The sun that rose on our sorrow this morning guards us in its course . 
Until it sets tonight , that monster must retain whatever form he now has . 
He is confined within the limitations of his earthly envelope . 
He cannot melt into thin air nor disappear through cracks or chinks or crannies . 
If he go through a doorway , he must open the door like a mortal . 
And so we have this day to hunt out all his lairs and sterilize them . 
But Van Helsing held up his hand warningly . 
Nay , friend Jonathan , he said , in this , the quickest way home is the longest way , so your proverb say . 
We shall all act and act with desperate quick , when the time has come . 
But think , in all probable the key of the situation is in that house in Piccadilly . 
The Count may have many houses which he has bought . 
Of them he will have deeds of purchase , keys and other things . 
He will have paper that he write on . 
He will have his book of cheques . 
There are many belongings that he must have somewhere . 
We shall go there and search that house . 
We shall break in if need be . 
So I said , as quietly as I could , Don't wait more than need be . 
You know , I am sure , what torture I am in . 
Ah , my child , that I do . 
And indeed there is no wish of me to add to your anguish . 
But just think , what can we do , until all the world be at movement . 
Then will come our time . 
I have thought and thought , and it seems to me that the simplest way is the best of all . 
Now we wish to get into the house , but we have no key . 
Is it not so ? I nodded . 
Now suppose that you were , in truth , the owner of that house , and could not still get in . 
And your police , they would interfere , would they not ? Oh no ! Not if they knew the man was properly employed . 
Your police must indeed be zealous men and clever , oh so clever , in reading the heart , that they trouble themselves in such matter . 
Then he went and made open the shutters in front and walk out and in through the door , before the very eyes of the police . 
Then he have an auction in that house , and advertise it , and put up big notice . 
And when the day come he sell off by a great auctioneer all the goods of that other man who own them . 
Then he go to a builder , and he sell him that house , making an agreement that he pull it down and take all away within a certain time . 
And your police and other authority help him all they can . 
And when that owner come back from his holiday in Switzerland he find only an empty hole where his house had been . 
This was all done en regle , and in our work we shall be en regle too . 
We shall not go so early that the policemen who have then little to think of , shall deem it strange . 
But we shall go after ten o'clock , when there are many about , and such things would be done were we indeed owners of the house . 
I could not but see how right he was and the terrible despair of Mina's face became relaxed in thought . 
There was hope in such good counsel . 
Van Helsing went on , When once within that house we may find more clues . 
At any rate some of us can remain there whilst the rest find the other places where there be more earth boxes , at Bermondsey and Mile End . 
I can be of some use here , he said . 
I shall wire to my people to have horses and carriages where they will be most convenient . 
And even leave them somewhere near the neighborhood we are going to . 
Friend Quincey is right ! said the Professor . 
His head is what you call in plane with the horizon . 
It is a difficult thing that we go to do , and we do not want no peoples to watch us if so it may . 
Mina took a growing interest in everything and I was rejoiced to see that the exigency of affairs was helping her to forget for a time the terrible experience of the night . 
She was very , very pale , almost ghastly , and so thin that her lips were drawn away , showing her teeth in somewhat of prominence . 
As yet there was no sign of the teeth growing sharper , but the time as yet was short , and there was time for fear . 
When we came to the discussion of the sequence of our efforts and of the disposition of our forces , there were new sources of doubt . 
It was finally agreed that before starting for Piccadilly we should destroy the Count's lair close at hand . 
In case he should find it out too soon , we should thus be still ahead of him in our work of destruction . 
And his presence in his purely material shape , and at his weakest , might give us some new clue . 
A s to the disposal of forces , it was suggested by the Professor that , after our visit to Carfax , we should all enter the house in Piccadilly . 
That the two doctors and I should remain there , whilst Lord Godalming and Quincey found the lairs at Walworth and Mile End and destroyed them . 
At any rate , we might be able to follow him in force . 
To this plan I strenuously objected , and so far as my going was concerned , for I said that I intended to stay and protect Mina . 
I thought that my mind was made up on the subject , but Mina would not listen to my objection . 
She said that there might be some law matter in which I could be useful . 
That amongst the Count's papers might be some clue which I could understand out of my experience in Transylvania . 
And that , as it was , all the strength we could muster was required to cope with the Count's extraordinary power . 
I had to give in , for Mina's resolution was fixed . 
She said that it was the last hope for her that we should all work together . 
As for me , she said , I have no fear . 
Things have been as bad as they can be . 
And whatever may happen must have in it some element of hope or comfort . 
Go , my husband ! God can , if He wishes it , guard me as well alone as with any one present . 
So I started up crying out , Then in God's name let us come at once , for we are losing time . 
The Count may come to Piccadilly earlier than we think . 
Not so ! said Van Helsing , holding up his hand . 
But why ? I asked . 
Do you forget , he said , with actually a smile , that last night he banqueted heavily , and will sleep late ? Did I forget ! Shall I ever . 
Van Helsing had not intended to recall her frightful experience . 
He had simply lost sight of her and her part in the affair in his intellectual effort . 
When it struck him what he said , he was horrified at his thoughtlessness and tried to comfort her . 
Oh , Madam Mina , he said , dear , dear , Madam Mina , alas ! That I of all who so reverence you should have said anything so forgetful . 
She took his hand , and looking at him through her tears , said hoarsely , No , I shall not forget , for it is well that I remember . 
And with it I have so much in memory of you that is sweet , that I take it all together . 
Now , you must all be going soon . 
Breakfast is ready , and we must all eat that we may be strong . 
Breakfast was a strange meal to us all . 
We tried to be cheerful and encourage each other , and Mina was the brightest and most cheerful of us . 
When it was over , Van Helsing stood up and said , Now , my dear friends , we go forth to our terrible enterprise . 
Are we all armed , as we were on that night when first we visited our enemy's lair . 
Armed against ghostly as well as carnal attack ? We all assured him . 
Now , Madam Mina , you are in any case quite safe here until the sunset . 
And before then we shall return . 
We shall return ! But before we go let me see you armed against personal attack . 
I have myself , since you came down , prepared your chamber by the placing of things of which we know , so that He may not enter . 
Now let me guard yourself . 
On your forehead I touch this piece of Sacred Wafer in the name of the Father , the Son , and . 
There was a fearful scream which almost froze our hearts to hear . 
As he had placed the Wafer on Mina's forehead , it had seared it . 
had burned into the flesh as though it had been a piece of whitehot metal . 
But the words to her thought came quickly . 
The echo of the scream had not ceased to ring on the air when there came the reaction , and she sank on her knees on the floor in an agony of abasement . 
Pulling her beautiful hair over her face , as the leper of old his mantle , she wailed out . 
Unclean ! Unclean ! Even the Almighty shuns my polluted flesh ! I must bear this mark of shame upon my forehead until the Judgement Day . 
I had thrown myself beside her in an agony of helpless grief , and putting my arms around held her tight . 
For a few minutes our sorrowful hearts beat together , whilst the friends around us turned away their eyes that ran tears silently . 
Then Van Helsing turned and said gravely . 
So gravely that I could not help feeling that he was in some way inspired , and was stating things outside himself . 
For so surely as we live , that scar shall pass away when God sees right to lift the burden that is hard upon us . 
Till then we bear our Cross , as His Son did in obedience to His Will . 
It may be that we are chosen instruments of His good pleasure , and that we ascend to His bidding as that other through stripes and shame . 
Through doubts and fear , and all that makes the difference between God and man . 
There was hope in his words , and comfort . 
And they made for resignation . 
Mina and I both felt so , and simultaneously we each took one of the old man's hands and bent over and kissed it . 
Then without a word we all knelt down together , and all holding hands , swore to be true to each other . 
We men pledged ourselves to raise the veil of sorrow from the head of her whom , each in his own way , we loved . 
And we prayed for help and guidance in the terrible task which lay before us . 
It was then time to start . 
So I said farewell to Mina , a parting which neither of us shall forget to our dying day , and we set out . 
To one thing I have made up my mind . 
If we find out that Mina must be a vampire in the end , then she shall not go into that unknown and terrible land alone . 
I suppose it is thus that in old times one vampire meant many . 
Just as their hideous bodies could only rest in sacred earth , so the holiest love was the recruiting sergeant for their ghastly ranks . 
We entered Carfax without trouble and found all things the same as on the first occasion . 
It was hard to believe that amongst so prosaic surroundings of neglect and dust and decay there was any ground for such fear as already we knew . 
Had not our minds been made up , and had there not been terrible memories to spur us on , we could hardly have proceeded with our task . 
We found no papers , or any sign of use in the house . 
And in the old chapel the great boxes looked just as we had seen them last . 
Van Helsing said to us solemnly as we stood before him , And now , my friends , we have a duty here to do . 
We must sterilize this earth , so sacred of holy memories , that he has brought from a far distant land for such fell use . 
He has chosen this earth because it has been holy . 
Thus we defeat him with his own weapon , for we make it more holy still . 
It was sanctified to such use of man , now we sanctify it to God . 
As he spoke he took from his bag a screwdriver and a wrench , and very soon the top of one of the cases was thrown open . 
The earth smelled musty and close , but we did not somehow seem to mind , for our attention was concentrated on the Professor . 
One by one we treated in the same way each of the great boxes , and left them as we had found them to all appearance . 
But in each was a portion of the Host . 
When we closed the door behind us , the Professor said solemnly , So much is already done . 
I looked eagerly , and in the window of my own room saw Mina . 
I waved my hand to her , and nodded to tell that our work there was successfully accomplished . 
She nodded in reply to show that she understood . 
The last I saw , she was waving her hand in farewell . 
It was with a heavy heart that we sought the station and just caught the train , which was steaming in as we reached the platform . 
I have written this in the train . 
Just before we reached Fenchurch Street Lord Godalming said to me , Quincey and I will find a locksmith . 
You had better not come with us in case there should be any difficulty . 
For under the circumstances it wouldn't seem so bad for us to break into an empty house . 
But you are a solicitor and the Incorporated Law Society might tell you that you should have known better . 
I demurred as to my not sharing any danger even of odium , but he went on , Besides , it will attract less attention if there are not too many of us . 
My title will make it all right with the locksmith , and with any policeman that may come along . 
You had better go with Jack and the Professor and stay in the Green Park . 
Somewhere in sight of the house , and when you see the door opened and the smith has gone away , do you all come across . 
We shall be on the lookout for you , and shall let you in . 
The advice is good ! said Van Helsing , so we said no more . 
Godalming and Morris hurried off in a cab , we following in another . 
At the corner of Arlington Street our contingent got out and strolled into the Green Park . 
We sat down on a bench within good view , and began to smoke cigars so as to attract as little attention as possible . 
The minutes seemed to pass with leaden feet as we waited for the coming of the others . 
At length we saw a four wheeler drive up . 
Out of it , in leisurely fashion , got Lord Godalming and Morris . 
And down from the box descended a thick set working man with his rush woven basket of tools . 
Morris paid the cabman , who touched his hat and drove away . 
Together the two ascended the steps , and Lord Godalming pointed out what he wanted done . 
The workman took off his coat leisurely and hung it on one of the spikes of the rail , saying something to a policeman who just then sauntered along . 
The policeman nodded acquiescence , and the man kneeling down placed his bag beside him . 
After searching through it , he took out a selection of tools which he proceeded to lay beside him in orderly fashion . 
Then he stood up , looked in the keyhole , blew into it , and turning to his employers , made some remark . 
Lord Godalming smiled , and the man lifted a good sized bunch of keys . 
Selecting one of them , he began to probe the lock , as if feeling his way with it . 
After fumbling about for a bit he tried a second , and then a third . 
All at once the door opened under a slight push from him , and he and the two others entered the hall . 
My own cigar burnt furiously , but Van Helsing's went cold altogether . 
We waited patiently as we saw the workman come out and bring his bag . 
Then he held the door partly open , steadying it with his knees , whilst he fitted a key to the lock . 
This he finally handed to Lord Godalming , who took out his purse and gave him something . 
The man touched his hat , took his bag , put on his coat and departed . 
Not a soul took the slightest notice of the whole transaction . 
When the man had fairly gone , we three crossed the street and knocked at the door . 
It was immediately opened by Quincey Morris , beside whom stood Lord Godalming lighting a cigar . 
The place smells so vilely , said the latter as we came in . 
It did indeed smell vilely . 
Like the old chapel at Carfax . 
And with our previous experience it was plain to us that the Count had been using the place pretty freely . 
In the dining room , which lay at the back of the hall , we found eight boxes of earth . 
Eight boxes only out of the nine which we sought ! Our work was not over , and would never be until we should have found the missing box . 
There were no windows in it , so we were not afraid of being overlooked . 
We did not lose any time in examining the chests . 
With the tools which we had brought with us we opened them , one by one , and treated them as we had treated those others in the old chapel . 
It was evident to us that the Count was not at present in the house , and we proceeded to search for any of his effects . 
And so we proceeded to minutely examine them . 
They lay in a sort of orderly disorder on the great dining room table . 
All were covered up in thin wrapping paper to keep them from the dust . 
There were also a clothes brush , a brush and comb , and a jug and basin . 
The latter containing dirty water which was reddened as if with blood . 
Last of all was a little heap of keys of all sorts and sizes , probably those belonging to the other houses . 
The rest of us are , with what patience we can , waiting their return , or the coming of the Count . 
The time seemed teribly long whilst we were waiting for the coming of Godalming and Quincey Morris . 
The Professor tried to keep our minds active by using them all the time . 
I could see his beneficent purpose , by the side glances which he threw from time to time at Harker . 
The poor fellow is overwhelmed in a misery that is appalling to see . 
Last night he was a frank , happy looking man , with strong , youthful face , full of energy , and with dark brown hair . 
Today he is a drawn , haggard old man , whose white hair matches well with the hollow burning eyes and grief written lines of his face . 
His energy is still intact . 
In fact , he is like a living flame . 
This may yet be his salvation , for if all go well , it will tide him over the despairing period . 
He will then , in a kind of way , wake again to the realities o f life . 
Poor fellow , I thought my own trouble was bad enough , but his . 
! The Professor knows this well enough , and is doing his best to keep his mind active . 
What he has been saying was , under the circumstances , of absorbing interest . 
All through there are signs of his advance . 
Not only of his power , but of his knowledge of it . 
As I learned from the researches of my friend Arminius of Buda Pesth , he was in life a most wonderful man . 
Soldier , statesman , and alchemist . 
Which latter was the highest development of the science knowledge of his time . 
He had a mighty brain , a learning beyond compare , and a heart that knew no fear and no remorse . 
He dared even to attend the Scholomance , and there was no branch of knowledge of his time that he did not essay . 
Well , in him the brain powers survived the physical death . 
Though it would seem that memory was not all complete . 
In some faculties of mind he has been , and is , only a child . 
But he is growing , and some things that were childish at the first are now of man's stature . 
He is experimenting , and doing it well . 
That big child brain of his is working . 
Well for us , it is as yet , a child brain . 
For had he dared , at the first , to attempt certain things he would long ago have been beyond our power . 
However , he means to succeed , and a man who has centuries before him can afford to wait and to go slow . 
Festina lente may well be his motto . 
I fail to understand , said Harker wearily . 
Oh , do be more plain to me ! Perhaps grief and trouble are dulling my brain . 
The Professor laid his hand tenderly on his shoulder as he spoke , Ah , my child , I will be plain . 
Do you not see how , of late , this monster has been creeping into knowledge experimentally . 
How he has been making use of the zoophagous patient to effect his entry into friend John's home . 
For your Vampire , though in all afterwards he can come when and how he will , must at the first make entry only when asked thereto by an inmate . 
But these are not his most important experiments . 
Do we not see how at the first all these so great boxes were moved by others . 
He knew not then but that must be so . 
But all the time that so great child brain of his was growing , and he began to consider whether he might not himself move the box . 
So he began to help . 
And then , when he found that this be all right , he try to move them all alone . 
And so he progress , and he scatter these graves of him . 
And none but he know where they are hidden . 
He may have intend to bury them deep in the ground . 
And before the sunset this shall be so . 
Then he have no place where he can move and hide . 
I delayed this morning that so we might be sure . 
Today is our day , and we must go sure , if slow , and lose no chance . 
See ! There are five of us when those absent ones return . 
Whilst we were speaking we were startled by a knock at the hall door , the double postman's knock of the telegraph boy . 
We all moved out to the hall with one impulse , and Van Helsing , holding up his hand to us to keep silence , stepped to the door and opened it . 
The boy handed in a dispatch . 
The Professor closed the door again , and after looking at the direction , opened it and read aloud . 
Look out for D. He has just now , , come from Carfax hurriedly and hastened towards the South . 
He seems to be going the round and may want to see you Mina . 
Do not fear , and do not rejoice as yet . 
For what we wish for at the moment may be our own undoings . 
I care for nothing now , he answered hotly , except to wipe out this brute from the face of creation . 
I would sell my soul to do it ! Oh , hush , hush , my child ! said Van Helsing . 
God does not purchase souls in this wise , and the Devil , though he may purchase , does not keep faith . 
But God is merciful and just , and knows your pain and your devotion to that dear Madam Mina . 
Think you , how her pain would be doubled , did she but hear your wild words . 
Do not fear any of us , we are all devoted to this cause , and today shall see the end . 
The time is coming for action . 
Today this Vampire is limit to the powers of man , and till sunset he may not change . 
What we must hope for is that my Lord Arthur and Quincey arrive first . 
About half an hour after we had received Mrs. Harker's telegram , there came a quiet , resolute knock at the hall door . 
It was just an ordinary knock , such as is given hourly by thousands of gentlemen , but it made the Professor's heart and mine beat loudly . 
We looked at each other , and together moved out into the hall . 
We each held ready to use our various armaments , the spiritual in the left hand , the mortal in the right . 
Van Helsing pulled back the latch , and holding the door half open , stood back , having both hands ready for action . 
The gladness of our hearts must have shown upon our faces when on the step , close to the door , we saw Lord Godalming and Quincey Morris . 
They came quickly in and closed the door behind them , the former saying , as they moved along the hall . 
Six boxes in each and we destroyed them all . 
Destroyed ? asked the Professor . 
For him ! We were silent for a minute , and then Quincey said , There's nothing to do but to wait here . 
If , however , he doesn't turn up by five o'clock , we must start off . 
For it won't do to leave Mrs. Harker alone after sunset . 
He will be here before long now , said Van Helsing , who had been consulting his pocketbook . 
Nota bene , in Madam's telegram he went south from Carfax . 
That means he went to cross the river , and he could only do so at slack of tide , which should be something before one o'clock . 
That he went south has a meaning for us . 
He is as yet only suspicious , and he went from Carfax first to the place where he would suspect interference least . 
You must have been at Bermondsey only a short time before him . 
That he is not here already shows that he went to Mile End next . 
This took him some time , for he would then have to be carried over the river in some way . 
Believe me , my friends , we shall not have long to wait now . 
We should have ready some plan of attack , so that we may throw away no chance . 
Hush , there is no time now . 
I could not but admire , even at such a moment , the way in which a dominant spirit asserted itself . 
Now , the old habit seemed to be renewed instinctively . 
With a swift glance around the room , he at once laid out our plan of attack , and without speaking a word , with a gesture , placed us each in position . 
Godalming behind and Quincey in front stood just out of sight ready to move in front of the window . 
We waited in a suspense that made the seconds pass with nightmare slowness . 
The slow , careful steps came along the hall . 
The Count was evidently prepared for some surprise , at least he feared it . 
Suddenly with a single bound he leaped into the room . 
Winning a way past us before any of us could raise a hand to stay him . 
There was something so pantherlike in the movement , something so unhuman , that it seemed to sober us all from the shock of his coming . 
The first to act was Harker , who with a quick movement , threw himself before the door leading into the room in the front of the house . 
As the Count saw us , a horrible sort of snarl passed over his face , showing the eyeteeth long and pointed . 
But the evil smile as quickly passed into a cold stare of lion like disdain . 
His expression again changed as , with a single impulse , we all advanced upon him . 
It was a pity that we had not some better organized plan of attack , for even at the moment I wondered what we were to do . 
I did not myself know whether our lethal weapons would avail us anything . 
Harker evidently meant to try the matter , for he had ready his great Kukri knife and made a fierce and sudden cut at him . 
The blow was a powerful one . 
Only the diabolical quickness of the Count's leap back saved him . 
A second less and the trenchant blade had shorn through his coat , making a wide gap whence a bundle of bank notes and a stream of gold fell out . 
The expression of the Count's face was so hellish , that for a moment I feared for Harker , though I saw him throw the terrible knife aloft again for another stroke . 
Instinctively I moved forward with a protective impulse , holding the Crucifix and Wafer in my left hand . 
I felt a mighty power fly along my arm , and it was without surprise that I saw the monster cower back before a similar movement made spontaneously by each one of us . 
It would be impossible to describe the expression of hate and baffled malignity , of anger and hellish rage , which came over the Count's face . 
His waxen hue became greenish yellow by the contrast of his burning eyes , and the red scar on the forehead showed on the pallid skin like a palpitating wound . 
Amid the crash and glitter of the falling glass , he tumbled into the flagged area below . 
Through the sound of the shivering glass I could hear the ting of the gold , as some of the sovereigns fell on the flagging . 
We ran over and saw him spring unhurt from the ground . 
He , rushing up the steps , crossed the flagged yard , and pushed open the stable door . 
There he turned and spoke to us . 
You think to baffle me , you with your pale faces all in a row , like sheep in a butcher's . 
You shall be sorry yet , each one of you ! You think you have left me without a place to rest , but I have more . 
My revenge is just begun ! I spread it over centuries , and time is on my side . 
Your girls that you all love are mine already . 
And through them you and others shall yet be mine , my creatures , to do my bidding and to be my jackals when I want to feed . 
Bah ! With a contemptuous sneer , he passed quickly through the door , and we heard the rusty bolt creak as he fastened it behind him . 
A door beyond opened and shut . 
The first of us to speak was the Professor . 
Realizing the difficulty of following him through the stable , we moved toward the hall . 
much ! Notwithstanding his brave words , he fears us . 
He fears time , he fears want ! For if not , why he hurry so ? His very tone betray him , or my ears deceive . 
Why take that money ? You follow quick . 
You are hunters of the wild beast , and understand it so . 
For me , I make sure that nothing here may be of use to him , if so that he returns . 
Godalming and Morris had rushed out into the yard , and Harker had lowered himself from the window to follow the Count . 
He had , however , bolted the stable door , and by the time they had forced it open there was no sign of him . 
Van Helsing and I tried to make inquiry at the back of the house . 
But the mews was deserted and no one had seen him depart . 
It was now late in the afternoon , and sunset was not far off . 
We had to recognize that our game was up . 
With heavy hearts we agreed with the Professor when he said , Let us go back to Madam Mina . 
Poor , poor dear Madam Mina . 
All we can do just now is done , and we can there , at least , protect her . 
But we need not despair . 
There is but one more earth box , and we must try to find it . 
When that is done all may yet be well . 
I could see that he spoke as bravely as he could to comfort Harker . 
The poor fellow was quite broken down , now and again he gave a low groan which he could not suppress . 
He was thinking of his wife . 
With sad hearts we came back to my house , where we found Mrs. Harker waiting us , with an appearance of cheerfulness which did honor to her bravery and unselfishness . 
When she saw our faces , her own became as pale as death . 
For a second or two her eyes were closed as if she were in secret prayer . 
And then she said cheerfully , I can never thank you all enough . 
Oh , my poor darling ! As she spoke , she took her husband's grey head in her hands and kissed it . 
Lay your poor head here and rest it . 
All will yet be well , dear ! God will protect us if He so will it in His good intent . 
There was no place for words in his sublime misery . 
We had a sort of perfunctory supper together , and I think it cheered us all up somewhat . 
True to our promise , we told Mrs. Harker everything which had passed . 
She said nothing , however , till the narration was all done , and matters had been brought up to the present time . 
Then without letting go her husband's hand she stood up amongst us and spoke . 
Oh , that I could give any idea of the scene . 
Her loving kindness against our grim hate . 
Her tender faith against all our fears and doubting . 
And we , knowing that so far as symbols went , she with all her goodness and purity and faith , was outcast from God . 
I know that you must fight . 
That you must destroy even as you destroyed the false Lucy so that the true Lucy might live hereafter . 
But it is not a work of hate . 
That poor soul who has wrought all this misery is the saddest case of all . 
Just think what will be his joy when he , too , is destroyed in his worser part that his better part may have spiritual immortality . 
You must be pitiful to him , too , though it may not hold your hands from his destruction . 
As she spoke I could see her husband's face darken and draw together , as though the passion in him were shriveling his being to its core . 
Instinctively the clasp on his wife's hand grew closer , till his knuckles looked white . 
She did not flinch from the pain which I knew she must have suffered , but looked at him with eyes that were more appealing than ever . 
As she stopped speaking he leaped to his feet , almost tearing his hand from hers as he spoke . 
May God give him into my hand just for long enough to destroy that earthly life of him which we are aiming at . 
If beyond it I could send his soul forever and ever to burning hell I would do it ! Oh , hush ! Oh , hush in the name of the good God . 
Don't say such things , Jonathan , my husband , or you will crush me with fear and horror . 
Just think , my dear . 
I have been thinking all this long , long day of it . 
But I pray that God may not have treasured your wild words , except as the heart broken wail of a very loving and sorely stricken man . 
We men were all in tears now . 
There was no resisting them , and we wept openly . 
She wept , too , to see that her sweeter counsels had prevailed . 
Her husband flung himself on his knees beside her , and putting his arms round her , hid his face in the folds of her dress . 
Van Helsing beckoned to us and we stole out of the room , leaving the two loving hearts alone with their God . 
Before they retired the Professor fixed up the room against any coming of the Vampire , and assured Mrs. Harker that she might rest in peace . 
She tried to school herself to the belief , and manifestly for her husband's sake , tried to seem content . 
It was a brave struggle , and was , I think and believe , not without its reward . 
Van Helsing had placed at hand a bell which either of them was to sound in case of any emergency . 
The first watch falls to Quincey , so the rest of us shall be off to bed as soon as we can . 
Godalming has already turned in , for his is the second watch . 
Now that my work is done I , too , shall go to bed . 
JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL October , close to midnight . 
I thought yesterday would never end . 
Before we parted , we discussed what our next step was to be , but we could arrive at no result . 
All we knew was that one earth box remained , and that the Count alone knew where it was . 
If he chooses to lie hidden , he may baffle us for years . 
And in the meantime , the thought is too horrible , I dare not think of it even now . 
This I know , that if ever there was a woman who was all perfection , that one is my poor wronged darling . 
I loved her a thousand times more for her sweet pity of last night , a pity that made my own hate of the monster seem despicable . 
Surely God will not permit the world to be the poorer by the loss of such a creature . 
This is hope to me . 
We are all drifting reefwards now , and faith is our only anchor . 
Thank God ! Mina is sleeping , and sleeping without dreams . 
I fear what her dreams might be like , with such terrible memories to ground them in . 
She has not been so calm , within my seeing , since the sunset . 
Then , for a while , there came over her face a repose which was like spring after the blasts of March . 
I thought at the time that it was the softness of the red sunset on her face , but somehow now I think it has a deeper meaning . 
I am not sleepy myself , though I am weary . 
However , I must try to sleep . 
For there is tomorrow to think of , and there is no rest for me until . 
Later I must have fallen asleep , for I was awakened by Mina , who was sitting up in bed , with a startled look on her face . 
I could see easily , for we did not leave the room in darkness . 
Just outside , stretched on a mattress , lay Mr. Morris , wide awake . 
He raised a warning hand for silence as he whispered to me , Hush ! Go back to bed . 
One of us will be here all night . 
We don't mean to take any chances ! His look and gesture forbade discussion , so I came back and told Mina . 
I write this now as I am not sleepy , though I must try again . 
Once again during the night I was wakened by Mina . 
She said to me hurriedly , Go , call the Professor . 
I want to see him at once . 
I suppose it must have come in the night , and matured without my knowing it . 
He must hypnotize me before the dawn , and then I shall be able to speak . 
Go quick , dearest , the time is getting close . 
I went to the door . 
Seward was resting on the mattress , and seeing me , he sprang to his feet . 
Is anything wrong ? he asked , in alarm . 
But Mina wants to see Dr . 
I will go , he said , and hurried into the Professor's room . 
Two or three minutes later Van Helsing was in the room in his dressing gown , and Mr. Morris and Lord Godalming were with Dr . 
Seward at the door asking questions . 
When the Professor saw Mina a smile , a positive smile ousted the anxiety of his face . 
He rubbed his hands as he said , Oh , my dear Madam Mina , this is indeed a change . 
I want you to hypnotize me ! she said . 
Do it before the dawn , for I feel that then I can speak , and speak freely . 
Be quick , for the time is short ! Without a word he motioned her to sit up in bed . 
Looking fixedly at her , he commenced to make passes in front of her , from over the top of her head downward , with each hand in turn . 
Mina gazed at him fixedly for a few minutes , during which my own heart beat like a trip hammer , for I felt that some crisis was at hand . 
Gradually her eyes closed , and she sat , stock still . 
Only by the gentle heaving of her bosom could one know that she was alive . 
The Professor made a few more passes and then stopped , and I could see that his forehead was covered with great beads of perspiration . 
Mina opened her eyes , but she did not seem the same woman . 
There was a far away look in her eyes , and her voice had a sad dreaminess which was new to me . 
Raising his hand to impose silence , the Professor motioned to me to bring the others in . 
They came on tiptoe , closing the door behind them , and stood at the foot of the bed , looking on . 
Mina appeared not to see them . 
The stillness was broken by Van Helsing's voice speaking in a low level tone which would not break the current of her thoughts . 
Where are you ? The answer came in a neutral way . 
Sleep has no place it can call its own . 
For several minutes there was silence . 
Mina sat rigid , and the Professor stood staring at her fixedly . 
The rest of us hardly dared to breathe . 
The room was growing lighter . 
Without taking his eyes from Mina's face , Dr . 
Van Helsing motioned me to pull up the blind . 
I did so , and the day seemed just upon us . 
A red streak shot up , and a rosy light seemed to diffuse itself through the room . 
On the instant the Professor spoke again . 
Where are you now ? The answer came dreamily , but with intention . 
It were as though she were interpreting something . 
I have heard her use the same tone when reading her shorthand notes . 
It is all strange to me ! What do you see ? I can see nothing . 
What do you hear ? I could detect the strain in the Professor's patient voice . 
It is gurgling by , and little waves leap . 
I can hear them on the outside . 
Then you are on a ship ? We all looked at each other , trying to glean something each from the other . 
We were afraid to think . 
The answer came quick , Oh , yes ! What else do you hear ? The sound of men stamping overhead as they run about . 
There is the creaking of a chain , and the loud tinkle as the check of the capstan falls into the ratchet . 
What are you doing ? I am still , oh so still . 
It is like death ! The voice faded away into a deep breath as of one sleeping , and the open eyes closed again . 
By this time the sun had risen , and we were all in the full light of day . 
Van Helsing placed his hands on Mina's shoulders , and laid her head down softly on her pillow . 
She lay like a sleeping child for a few moments , and then , with a long sigh , awoke and stared in wonder to see us all around her . 
Have I been talking in my sleep ? was all she said . 
She seemed , however , to know the situation without telling , though she was eager to know what she had told . 
The Professor repeated the conversation , and she said , Then there is not a moment to lose . 
It may not be yet too late ! Mr. Morris and Lord Godalming started for the door but the Professor's calm voice called them back . 
That ship , wherever it was , was weighing anchor at the moment in your so great Port of London . 
Which of them is it that you seek ? God be thanked that we have once again a clue , though whither it may lead us we know not . 
We have been blind somewhat . 
He have take his last earth box on board a ship , and he leave the land . 
He think to escape , but no ! We follow him . 
Tally Ho ! As friend Arthur would say when he put on his red frock ! Our old fox is wily . 
Oh ! So wily , and we must follow with wile . 
I , too , am wily and I think his mind in a little while . 
In meantime we may rest and in peace , for there are between us which he do not want to pass , and which he could not if he would . 
Unless the ship were to touch the land , and then only at full or slack tide . 
See , and the sun is just rose , and all day to sunset is us . 
Let us take bath , and dress , and have breakfast which we all need , and which we can eat comfortably since he be not in the same land with us . 
When we have breakfast , then I answer all questions . 
He would say no more , and we separated to dress . 
After breakfast Mina repeated her question . 
Time is now to be dreaded , since once he put that mark upon your throat . 
I was just in time to catch her as she fell forward in a faint . 
SEWARD'S PHONOGRAPH DIARY SPOKEN BY VAN HELSING This to Jonathan Harker . 
You are to stay with your dear Madam Mina . 
We shall go to make our search , if I can call it so , for it is not search but knowing , and we seek confirmation only . 
But do you stay and take care of her today . 
This is your best and most holiest office . 
This day nothing can find him here . 
Let me tell you that so you will know what we four know already , for I have tell them . 
He , our enemy , have gone away . 
He have gone back to his Castle in Transylvania . 
I know it so well , as if a great hand of fire wrote it on the wall . 
He have prepare for this in some way , and that last earth box was ready to ship somewheres . 
For this he took the money . 
For this he hurry at the last , lest we catch him before the sun go down . 
It was his last hope , save that he might hide in the tomb that he think poor Miss Lucy , being as he thought like him , keep open to him . 
But there was not of time . 
When that fail he make straight for his last resource , his last earth work I might say did I wish double entente . 
He is clever , oh so clever ! He know that his game here was finish . 
And so he decide he go back home . 
He find ship going by the route he came , and he go in it . 
We go off now to find what ship , and whither bound . 
When we have discover that , we come back and tell you all . 
Then we will comfort you and poor Madam Mina with new hope . 
For it will be hope when you think it over , that all is not lost . 
This very creature that we pursue , he take hundreds of years to get so far as London . 
And yet in one day , when we know of the disposal of him we drive him out . 
He is finite , though he is powerful to do much harm and suffers not as we do . 
But we are strong , each in our purpose , and we are all more strong together . 
Take heart afresh , dear husband of Madam Mina . 
This battle is but begun and in the end we shall win . 
So sure as that God sits on high to watch over His children . 
Therefore be of much comfort till we return . 
When I read to Mina , Van Helsing's message in the phonograph , the poor girl brightened up considerably . 
Already the certainty that the Count is out of the country has given her comfort . 
And comfort is strength to her . 
For my own part , now that his horrible danger is not face to face with us , it seems almost impossible to believe in it . 
Even my own terrible experiences in Castle Dracula seem like a long forgotten dream . 
Here in the crisp autumn air in the bright sunlight . 
Alas ! How can I disbelieve ! In the midst of my thought my eye fell on the red scar on my poor darling's white forehead . 
Whilst that lasts , there can be no disbelief . 
Mina and I fear to be idle , so we have been over all the diaries again and again . 
Somehow , although the reality seem greater each time , the pain and the fear seem less . 
There is something of a guiding purpose manifest throughout , which is comforting . 
Mina says that perhaps we are the instruments of ultimate good . 
It may be ! I shall try to think as she does . 
We have never spoken to each other yet of the future . 
It is better to wait till we see the Professor and the others after their investigations . 
The day is running by more quickly than I ever thought a day could run for me again . 
It is now three o'clock . 
MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL October , P. M. Our meeting for report . 
Present Professor Van Helsing , Lord Godalming , Dr . 
Seward , Mr. Quincey Morris , Jonathan Harker , Mina Harker . 
Van Helsing described what steps were taken during the day to discover on what boat and whither bound Count Dracula made his escape . 
It was a dreary blank that was before us . 
And so with heavy hearts we start to find what ships leave for the Black Sea last night . 
He was in sailing ship , since Madam Mina tell of sails being set . 
There we find that only one Black Sea bound ship go out with the tide . 
She is the Czarina Catherine , and she sail from Doolittle's Wharf for Varna , and thence to other ports and up the Danube . 
So ! said I , this is the ship whereon is the Count . 
So off we go to Doolittle's Wharf , and there we find a man in an office . 
From him we inquire o f the goings of the Czarina Catherine . 
He swear much , and he red face and loud of voice , but he good fellow all the same . 
He come with us , and ask many men who are rough and hot . 
These be better fellows too when they have been no more thirsty . 
They say much of blood and bloom , and of others which I comprehend not , though I guess what they mean . 
But nevertheless they tell us all things which we want to know . 
They make known to us among them , how last afternoon at about five o'clock comes a man so hurry . 
A tall man , thin and pale , with high nose and teeth so white , and eyes that seem to be burning . 
That he be all in black , except that he have a hat of straw which suit not him or the time . 
That he scatter his money in making quick inquiry as to what ship sails for the Black Sea and for where . 
The captain come , when told that he will be pay well , and though he swear much at the first he agree to term . 
Then the thin man go and some one tell him where horse and cart can be hired . 
He go there and soon he come again , himself driving cart on which a great box . 
This he himself lift down , though it take several to put it on truck for the ship . 
He give much talk to captain as to how and where his box is to be place . 
But the captain like it not and swear at him in many tongues , and tell him that if he like he can come and see where it shall be . 
But he say no , that he come not yet , for that he have much to do . 
Then the thin man smile and say that of course he must go when he think fit , but he will be surprise if he go quite so soon . 
And so , after asking where he might purchase ship forms , he departed . 
No one knew where he went or bloomin' well cared' as they said , for they had something else to think of , well with blood again . 
For it soon became apparent to all that the Czarina Catherine would not sail as was expected . 
A thin mist began to creep up from the river , and it grew , and grew . 
Till soon a dense fog enveloped the ship and all around her . 
The captain swore polyglot , very polyglot , polyglot with bloom and blood , but he could do nothing . 
The water rose and rose , and he began to fear that he would lose the tide altogether . 
He was in no friendly mood , when just at full tide , the thin man came up the gangplank again and asked to see where his box had been stowed . 
Then the captain replied that he wished that he and his box , old and with much bloom and blood , were in hell . 
But the thin man did not be offend , and went down with the mate and saw where it was place , and came up and stood awhile on deck in fog . 
He must have come off by himself , for none notice him . 
Indeed they thought not of him , for soon the fog begin to melt away , and all was clear again . 
However , the ship went out on the ebb tide , and was doubtless by morning far down the river mouth . 
She was then , when they told us , well out to sea . 
To sail a ship takes time , go she never so quick . 
And when we start to go on land more quick , and we meet him there . 
Our best hope is to come on him when in the box between sunrise and sunset . 
For then he can make no struggle , and we may deal with him as we should . 
There are days for us , in which we can make ready our plan . 
We know all about where he go . 
For we have seen the owner of the ship , who have shown us invoices and all papers that can be . 
The box we seek is to be landed in Varna , and to be given to an agent , one Ristics who will there present his credentials . 
And so our merchant friend will have done his part . 
It must be done by us alone and in our own way . 
Van Helsing had done speaking , I asked him if he were certain that the Count had remained on board the ship . 
He replied , We have the best proof of that , your own evidence , when in the hypnotic trance this morning . 
He answered in growing passion , at first quietly . 
Yes , it is necessary , necessary , necessary ! For your sake in the first , and then for the sake of humanity . 
All this have I told these others . 
You , my dear Madam Mina , will learn it in the phonograph of my friend John , or in that of your husband . 
With this one , all the forces of nature that are occult and deep and strong must have worked together in some wonderous way . 
The very place , where he have been alive , Undead for all these centuries , is full of strangeness of the geologic and chemical world . 
There are deep caverns and fissures that reach none know whither . 
There have been volcanoes , some of whose openings still send out waters of strange properties , and gases that kill or make to vivify . 
In a hard and warlike time he was celebrate that he have more iron nerve , more subtle brain , more braver heart , than any man . 
In him some vital principle have in strange way found their utmost . 
And as his body keep strong and grow and thrive , so his brain grow too . 
All this without that diabolic aid which is surely to him . 
For it have to yield to the powers that come from , and are , symbolic of good . 
And now this is what he is to us . 
He have infect you , oh forgive me , my dear , that I must say such , but it is for good of you that I speak . 
This must not be ! We have sworn together that it must not . 
Thus are we ministers of God's own wish . 
That the world , and men for whom His Son die , will not be given over to monsters , whose very existence would defame Him . 
He have allowed us to redeem one soul already , and we go out as the old knights of the Cross to redeem more . 
Like them we shall travel towards the sunrise . 
And like them , if we fall , we fall in good cause . 
This that we hunt from our village is a tiger , too , a maneater , and he never cease to prowl . 
Nay , in himself he is not one to retire and stay afar . 
In his life , his living life , he go over the Turkey frontier and attack his enemy on his own ground . 
He be beaten back , but did he stay ? No ! He come again , and again , and again . 
Look at his persistence and endurance . 
With the child brain that was to him he have long since conceive the idea of coming to a great city . 
What does he do ? He find out the place of all the world most of promise for him . 
Then he deliberately set himself down to prepare for the task . 
He find in patience just how is his strength , and what are his powers . 
His glimpse that he have had , whet his appetite only and enkeen his desire . 
Nay , it help him to grow as to his brain . 
For it all prove to him how right he was at the first in his surmises . 
He have done this alone , all alone ! From a ruin tomb in a forgotten land . 
What more may he not do when the greater world of thought is open to him . 
He that can smile at death , as we know him . 
Who can flourish in the midst of diseases that kill off whole peoples . 
Oh ! If such an one was to come from God , and not the Devil , what a force for good might he not be in this old world of ours . 
But we are pledged to set the world free . 
Our toil must be in silence , and our efforts all in secret . 
For in this enlightened age , when men believe not even what they see , the doubting of wise men would be his greatest strength . 
For the good of mankind , and for the honor and glory of God . 
After a general discussion it was determined that for tonight nothing be definitely settled . 
That we should all sleep on the facts , and try to think out the proper conclusions . 
Tomorrow , at breakfast , we are to meet again , and after making our conclusions known to one another , we shall decide on some definite cause of action . 
I feel a wonderful peace and rest tonight . 
It is as if some haunting presence were removed from me . 
My surmise was not finished , could not be , for I caught sight in the mirror of the red mark upon my forehead , and I knew that I was still unclean . 
We all arose early , and I think that sleep did much for each and all of us . 
When we met at early breakfast there was more general cheerfulness than any of us had ever expected to experience again . 
It is really wonderful how much resilience there is in human nature . 
Let any obstructing cause , no matter what , be removed in any way , even by death , and we fly back to first principles of hope and enjoyment . 
More than once as we sat around the table , my eyes opened in wonder whether the whole of the past days had not been a dream . 
It was only when I caught sight of the red blotch on Mrs. Harker's forehead that I was brought back to reality . 
Even now , when I am gravely revolving the matter , it is almost impossible to realize that the cause of all our trouble is still existent . 
Even Mrs. Harker seems to lose sight of her trouble for whole spells . 
It is only now and again , when something recalls it to her mind , that she thinks of her terrible scar . 
We are to meet here in my study in half an hour and decide on our course of action . 
I see only one immediate difficulty , I know it by instinct rather than reason . 
We shall all have to speak frankly . 
And yet I fear that in some mysterious way poor Mrs. Harker's tongue is tied . 
I know that she forms conclusions of her own , and from all that has been I can guess how brilliant and how true they must be . 
But she will not , or cannot , give them utterance . 
I have mentioned this to Van Helsing , and he and I are to talk it over when we are alone . 
I suppose it is some of that horrid poison which has got into her veins beginning to work . 
The Count had his own purposes when he gave her what Van Helsing called the Vampire's baptism of blood . 
Well , there may be a poison that distills itself out of good things . 
The same power that compels her silence may compel her speech . 
I dare not think further , for so I should in my thoughts dishonor a noble woman ! Later . 
When the Professor came in , we talked over the state of things . 
I could see that he had something on his mind , which he wanted to say , but felt some hesitancy about broaching the subject . 
After beating about the bush a little , he said , Friend John , there is something that you and I must talk of alone , just at the first at any rate . 
Later , we may have to take the others into our confidence . 
Then he stopped , so I waited . 
He went on , Madam Mina , our poor , dear Madam Mina is changing . 
A cold shiver ran through me to find my worst fears thus endorsed . 
With the sad experience of Miss Lucy , we must this time be warned before things go too far . 
Our task is now in reality more difficult than ever , and this new trouble makes every hour of the direst importance . 
I can see the characteristics of the vampire coming in her face . 
It is now but very , very slight . 
But it is to be seen if we have eyes to notice without prejudge . 
Her teeth are sharper , and at times her eyes are more hard . 
But these are not all , there is to her the silence now often , as so it was with Miss Lucy . 
She did not speak , even when she wrote that which she wished to be known later . 
Now my fear is this . 
He went on , Then , what we must do is to prevent this . 
We must keep her ignorant of our intent , and so she cannot tell what she know not . 
This is a painful task ! Oh , so painful that it heartbreak me to think of it , but it must be . 
When today we meet , I must tell her that for reason which we will not to speak she must not more be of our council , but be simply guarded by us . 
He wiped his forehead , which had broken out in profuse perspiration at the thought of the pain which he might have to inflict upon the poor soul already so tortured . 
I knew that it would be some sort of comfort to him if I told him that I also had come to the same conclusion . 
For at any rate it would take away the pain of doubt . 
I told him , and the effect was as I expected . 
It is now close to the time of our general gathering . 
Van Helsing has gone away to prepare for the meeting , and his painful part of it . 
I really believe his purpose is to be able to pray alone . 
At the very outset of our meeting a great personal relief was experienced by both Van Helsing and myself . 
The Professor and I looked at each other for an instant , and somehow we both seemed relieved . 
For my own part , I thought that if Mrs. Harker realized the danger herself , it was much pain as well as much danger averted . 
We went at once into our Plan of Campaign . 
Van Helsing roughly put the facts before us first , The Czarina Catherine left the Thames yesterday morning . 
It will take her at the quickest speed she has ever made at least three weeks to reach Varna . 
But we can travel overland to the same place in three days . 
Thus , in order to be quite safe , we must leave here on th at latest . 
Then we shall at any rate be in Varna a day before the ship arrives , and able to make such preparations as may be necessary . 
Of course we shall all go armed , armed against evil things , spiritual as well as physical . 
Here Quincey Morris added , I understand that the Count comes from a wolf country , and it may be that he shall get there before us . 
I propose that we add Winchesters to our armament . 
I have a kind of belief in a Winchester when there is any trouble of that sort around . 
Quincey's head is level at times , but most so when there is to hunt , metaphor be more dishonor to science than wolves be of danger to man . 
In the meantime we can do nothing here . 
And as I think that Varna is not familiar to any of us , why not go there more soon ? It is as long to wait here as there . 
Tonight and tomorrow we can get ready , and then if all be well , we four can set out on our journey . 
We four ? said Harker interrogatively , looking from one to another of us . 
Of course ! answered the Professor quickly . 
I want to consult with Mina . 
I thought that now was the time for Van Helsing to warn him not to disclose our plan to her , but he took no notice . 
I looked at him significantly and coughed . 
For answer he put his finger to his lips and turned away . 
JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL October , afternoon . 
For some time after our meeting this morning I could not think . 
The new phases of things leave my mind in a state of wonder which allows no room for active thought . 
Mina's determination not to take any part in the discussion set me thinking . 
And as I could not argue the matter with her , I could only guess . 
I am as far as ever from a solution now . 
The way the others received it , too puzzled me . 
The last time we talked of the subject we agreed that there was to be no more concealment of anything amongst us . 
Mina is sleeping now , calmly and sweetly like a little child . 
Her lips are curved and her face beams with happiness . 
Thank God , there are such moments still for her . 
How strange it all is . 
I sat watching Mina's happy sleep , and I came as near to being happy myself as I suppose I shall ever be . 
As the evening drew on , and the earth took its shadows from the sun sinking lower , the silence of the room grew more and more solemn to me . 
All at once Mina opened her eyes , and looking at me tenderly said , Jonathan , I want you to promise me something on your word of honor . 
A promise made to me , but made holily in God's hearing , and not to be broken though I should go down on my knees and implore you with bitter tears . 
Quick , you must make it to me at once . 
Mina , I said , a promise like that , I cannot make at once . 
I may have no right to make it . 
But , dear one , she said , with such spiritual intensity that her eyes were like pole stars , it is I who wish it . 
And it is not for myself . 
Van Helsing if I am not right . 
If he disagrees you may do as you will . 
Nay , more if you all agree , later you are absolved from the promise . 
I promise ! I said , and for a moment she looked supremely happy . 
Though to me all happiness for her was denied by the red scar on her forehead . 
She said , Promise me that you will not tell me anything of the plans formed for the campaign against the Count . 
Not by word , or inference , or implication , not at any time whilst this remains to me ! And she solemnly pointed to the scar . 
I saw that she was in earnest , and said solemnly , I promise ! and as I said it I felt that from that instant a door had been shut between us . 
Mina has been bright and cheerful all the evening . 
So much so that all the rest seemed to take courage , as if infected somewhat with her gaiety . 
As a result even I myself felt as if the pall of gloom which weighs us down were somewhat lifted . 
Mina is now sleeping like a little child . 
It is wonderful thing that her faculty of sleep remains to her in the midst of her terrible trouble . 
Thank God for it , for then at least she can forget her care . 
Perhaps her example may affect me as her gaiety did tonight . 
Oh ! For a dreamless sleep . 
Mina woke me early , about the same time as yesterday , and asked me to bring Dr . 
I thought that it was another occassion for hypnotism , and without question went for the Professor . 
He had evidently expected some such call , for I found him dressed in his room . 
His door was ajar , so that he could hear the opening of the door of our room . 
As he passed into the room , he asked Mina if the others might come , too . 
No , she said quite simply , it will not be necessary . 
You can tell them just as well . 
I must go with you on your journey . 
Van Helsing was as startled as I was . 
After a moment's pause he asked , But why ? You must take me with you . 
I am safer with you , and you shall be safer , too . 
But why , dear Madam Mina ? You know that your safety is our solemnest duty . 
We go into danger , to which you are , or may be , more liable than any of us from . 
As she replied , she raised her finger and pointed to her forehead . 
That is why I must go . 
I can tell you now , whilst the sun is coming up . 
I may not be able again . 
I know that when the Count wills me I must go . 
I know that if he tells me to come in secret , I must by wile . 
By any device to hoodwink , even Jonathan . 
God saw the look that she turned on me as she spoke , and if there be indeed a Recording Angel that look is noted to her ever lasting honor . 
I could only clasp her hand . 
My emotion was too great for even the relief of tears . 
You men are brave and strong . 
You are strong in your numbers , for you can defy that which would break down the human endurance of one who had to guard alone . 
Besides , I may be of service , since you can hypnotize me and so learn that which even I myself do not know . 
Van Helsing said gravely , Madam Mina , you are , as always , most wise . 
You shall with us come . 
And together we shall do that which we go forth to achieve . 
When he had spoken , Mina's long spell of silence made me look at her . 
She had fallen back on her pillow asleep . 
She did not even wake when I had pulled up the blind and let in the sunlight which flooded the room . 
Van Helsing motioned to me to come with him quietly . 
We went to his room , and within a minute Lord Godalming , Dr . 
Seward , and Mr. Morris were with us also . 
He told them what Mina had said , and went on . 
In the morning we shall leave for Varna . 
We have now to deal with a new factor , Madam Mina . 
Oh , but her soul is true . 
It is to her an agony to tell us so much as she has done . 
But it is most right , and we are warned in time . 
There must be no chance lost , and in Varna we must be ready to act the instant when that ship arrives . 
What shall we do exactly ? asked Mr. Morris laconically . 
The Professor paused before replying , We shall at the first board that ship . 
Then , when we have identified the box , we shall place a branch of the wild rose on it . 
This we shall fasten , for when it is there none can emerge , so that at least says the superstition . 
And to superstition must we trust at the first . 
It was man's faith in the early , and it have its root in faith still . 
Then , when we get the opportunity that we seek , when none are near to see , we shall open the box , and . 
and all will be well . 
I shall not wait for any opportunity , said Morris . 
I think he understood my look . 
Good boy , said Dr . 
God bless him for it . 
My child , believe me none of us shall lag behind or pause from any fear . 
I do but say what we may do . 
But , indeed , indeed we cannot say what we may do . 
There are so many things which may happen , and their ways and their ends are so various that until the moment we may not say . 
We shall all be armed , in all ways . 
And when the time for the end has come , our effort shall not be lack . 
Now let us today put all our affairs in order . 
Let all things which touch on others dear to us , and who on us depend , be complete . 
For none of us can tell what , or when , or how , the end may be . 
As for me , my own affairs are regulate , and as I have nothing else to do , I shall go make arrangements for the travel . 
I shall have all tickets and so forth for our journey . 
There was nothing further to be said , and we parted . 
I shall now settle up all my affairs of earth , and be ready for whatever may come . 
My will is made , and all complete . 
Mina if she survive is my sole heir . 
If it should not be so , then the others who have been so good to us shall have remainder . 
It is now drawing towards the sunset . 
Mina's uneasiness calls my attention to it . 
I am sure that there is something on her mind which the time of exact sunset will reveal . 
These occasions are becoming harrowing times for us all . 
For each sunrise and sunset opens up some new danger , some new pain , which however , may in God's will be means to a good end . 
I write all these things in the diary since my darling must not hear them now . 
But if it may be that she can see them again , they shall be ready . 
She is calling to me . 
CHAPTER DR SEWARD'S DIARY October , Evening . 
Jonathan Harker has asked me to note this , as he says he is hardly equal to the task , and he wants an exact record kept . 
I think that none of us were surprised when we were asked to see Mrs. Harker a little before the time of sunset . 
We have of late come to understand that sunrise and sunset are to her times of peculiar freedom . 
When her old self can be manifest without any controlling force subduing or restraining her , or inciting her to action . 
At first there is a sort of negative condition , as if some tie were loosened , and then the absolute freedom quickly follows . 
When , however , the freedom ceases the change back or relapse comes quickly , preceeded only by a spell of warning silence . 
Tonight , when we met , she was somewhat constrained , and bore all the signs of an internal struggle . 
I put it down myself to her making a violent effort at the earliest instant she could do so . 
A very few minutes , however , gave her complete control of herself . 
Then , motioning her husband to sit beside her on the sofa where she was half reclining , she made the rest of us bring chairs up close . 
This was to her husband whose hand had , as we could see , tightened upon her . 
In the morning we go out upon our task , and God alone knows what may be in store for any of us . 
You are going to be so good to me to take me with you . 
But you must remember that I am not as you are . 
There is a poison in my blood , in my soul , which may destroy me , which must destroy me , unless some relief comes to us . 
Oh , my friends , you know as well as I do , that my soul is at stake . 
What is that way ? asked Van Helsing in a hoarse voice . 
I know , and you know , that were I once dead you could and would set free my immortal spirit , even as you did my poor Lucy's . 
Were death , or the fear of death , the only thing that stood in the way I would not shrink to die here now , amidst the friends who love me . 
But death is not all . 
I cannot believe that to die in such a case , when there is hope before us and a bitter task to be done , is God's will . 
The faces of the others were set , and Harker's grew ashen grey . 
Perhaps , he guessed better than any of us what was coming . 
She continued , This is what I can give into the hotch pot . 
I could not but note the quaint legal phrase which she used in such a place , and with all seriousness . 
What will each of you give ? Your lives I know , she went on quickly , that is easy for brave men . 
Quincey seemed to understand , he nodded , and her face lit up . 
Then I shall tell you plainly what I want , for there must be no doubtful matter in this connection between us now . 
You must promise me , one and all , even you , my beloved husband , that should the time come , you will kill me . 
What is that time ? The voice was Quincey's , but it was low and strained . 
When you shall be convinced that I am so changed that it is better that I die that I may live . 
I swear the same , my dear Madam Mina ! said Van Helsing . 
And I ! said Lord Godalming , each of them in turn kneeling to her to take the oath . 
You are nearest and dearest and all the world to me . 
Our souls are knit into one , for all life and all time . 
Think , dear , that there have been times when brave men have killed their wives and their womenkind , to keep them from falling into the hands of the enemy . 
Their hands did not falter any the more because those that they loved implored them to slay them . 
Van Helsing , I have not forgotten your mercy in poor Lucy's case to him who loved . 
She stopped with a flying blush , and changed her phrase , to him who had best right to give her peace . 
Again I swear ! came the Professor's resonant voice . 
Mrs. Harker smiled , positively smiled , as with a sigh of relief she leaned back and said , And now one word of warning , a warning which you must never forget . 
This time , if it ever come , may come quickly and unexpectedly , and in such case you must lose no time in using your opportunity . 
At such a time I myself might be . 
nay ! If the time ever come , shall be , leagued with your enemy against you . 
We all acquiesced , but no one spoke . 
There was no need to speak . 
I want you to read the Burial Service . 
She was interrupted by a deep groan from her husband . 
Taking his hand in hers , she held it over her heart , and continued . 
You must read it over me some day . 
Whatever may be the issue of all this fearful state of things , it will be a sweet thought to all or some of us . 
Nay , she said , holding up a warning hand . 
It would comfort me , my husband ! was all she said , and he began to read when she had got the book ready . 
How can I , how could anyone , tell of that strange scene , its solemnity , its gloom , its sadness , its horror , and withal , its sweetness . 
f fail m me ! She was right in her instinct . 
Strange as it was , bizarre as it may hereafter seem even to us who felt its potent influence at the time , it comforted us much . 
And the silence , which showed Mrs. Harker's coming relapse from her freedom of soul , did not seem so full of despair to any of us as we had dreaded . 
JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL October , Varna . 
We left Charing Cross on the morning of the th , got to Paris the same night , and took the places secured for us in the Orient Express . 
We traveled night and day , arriving here at about five o'clock . 
Lord Godalming went to the Consulate to see if any telegram had arrived for him , whilst the rest of us came on to this hotel , the Odessus . 
The journey may have had incidents . 
I was , however , too eager to get on , to care for them . 
Until the Czarina Catherine comes into port there will be no interest for me in anything in the wide world . 
Thank God ! Mina is well , and looks to be getting stronger . 
Her color is coming back . 
She sleeps a great deal . 
Throughout the journey she slept nearly all the time . 
Before sunrise and sunset , however , she is very wakeful and alert . 
And it has become a habit for Van Helsing to hypnotize her at such times . 
At first , some effort was needed , and he had to make many passes . 
But now , she seems to yield at once , as if by habit , and scarcely any action is needed . 
He seems to have power at these particular moments to simply will , and her thoughts obey him . 
He always asks her what she can see and hear . 
She answers to the first , Nothing , all is dark . 
And to the second , I can hear the waves lapping against the ship , and the water rushing by . 
Canvas and cordage strain and masts and yards creak . 
I can hear it in the shrouds , and the bow throws back the foam . 
It is evident that the Czarina Catherine is still at sea , hastening on her way to Varna . 
Lord Godalming has just returned . 
He had four telegrams , one each day since we started , and all to the same effect . 
That the Czarina Catherine had not been reported to Lloyd's from anywhere . 
He had arranged before leaving London that his agent should send him every day a telegram saying if the ship had been reported . 
He was to have a message even if she were not reported , so that he might be sure that there was a watch being kept at the other end of the wire . 
We had dinner and went to bed early . 
Tomorrow we are to see the Vice Consul , and to arrange , if we can , about getting on board the ship as soon as she arrives . 
Van Helsing says that our chance will be to get on the boat between sunrise and sunset . 
The Count , even if he takes the form of a bat , cannot cross the running water of his own volition , and so cannot leave the ship . 
As he dare not change to man's form without suspicion , which he evidently wishes to avoid , he must remain in the box . 
What mercy he shall get from us all will not count for much . 
We think that we shall not have much trouble with officials or the seamen . 
Thank God ! This is the country where bribery can do anything , and we are well supplied with money . 
We have only to make sure that the ship cannot come into port between sunset and sunrise without our being warned , and we shall be safe . 
Judge Moneybag will settle this case , I think ! October . 
Mina's report still the same . 
Lapping waves and rushing water , darkness and favoring winds . 
We are evidently in good time , and when we hear of the Czarina Catherine we shall be ready . 
As she must pass the Dardanelles we are sure to have some report . 
Everything is pretty well fixed now , I think , to welcome the Count on his return from his tour . 
We have already arranged what to do in case we get the box open . 
If the Count is there , Van Helsing and Seward will cut off his head at once and drive a stake through his heart . 
Morris and Godalming and I shall prevent interference , even if we have to use the arms which we shall have ready . 
The Professor says that if we can so treat the Count's body , it will soon after fall into dust . 
In such case there would be no evidence against us , in case any suspicion of murder were aroused . 
For myself , I should take the chance only too thankfully if it were to come . 
We mean to leave no stone unturned to carry out our intent . 
We have arranged with certain officials that the instant the Czarina Catherine is seen , we are to be informed by a special messenger . 
A whole week of waiting . 
Daily telegrams to Godalming , but only the same story . 
Mina's morning and evening hypnotic answer is unvaried . 
Lapping waves , rushing water , and creaking masts . 
TELEGRAM , OCTOBER TH RUFUS SMITH , LLOYD'S , LONDON , TO LORD GODALMING , CARE OF H. B. M. VICE CONSUL , VARNA Czarina Catherine reported this morning from Dardanelles . 
How I miss my phonograph ! To write a diary with a pen is irksome to me ! But Van Helsing says I must . 
We were all wild with excitement yesterday when Godalming got his telegram from Lloyd's . 
I know now what men feel in battle when the call to action is heard . 
Mrs. Harker , alone of our party , did not show any signs of emotion . 
In old days she would , I am sure , have noticed , no matter how we might have tried to conceal it . 
But in this way she is greatly changed during the past three weeks . 
The lethargy grows upon her , and though she seems strong and well , and is getting back some of her color , Van Helsing and I are not satisfied . 
We talk of her often . 
We have not , however , said a word to the others . 
It would break poor Harker's heart , certainly his nerve , if he knew that we had even a suspicion on the subject . 
We should neither of us shrink from the task , awful though it be to contemplate . 
Euthanasia is an excellent and a comforting word ! I am grateful to whoever invented it . 
It is only about hours' sail from the Dardanelles to here , at the rate the Czarina Catherine has come from London . 
She should therefore arrive some time in the morning , but as she cannot possibly get in before noon , we are all about to retire early . 
We shall get up at one o'clock , so as to be ready . 
No news yet of the ship's arrival . 
Mrs. Harker's hypnotic report this morning was the same as usual , so it is possible that we may get news at any moment . 
We men are all in a fever of excitement , except Harker , who is calm . 
His hands are cold as ice , and an hour ago I found him whetting the edge of the great Ghoorka knife which he now always carries with him . 
About noon she got into a sort of lethargy which we did not like . 
Although we kept silence to the others , we were neither of us happy about it . 
She had been restless all the morning , so that we were at first glad to know that she was sleeping . 
When , however , her husband mentioned casually that she was sleeping so soundly that he could not wake her , we went to her room to see for ourselves . 
She was breathing naturally and looked so well and peaceful that we agreed that the sleep was better for her than anything else . 
Poor girl , she has so much to forget that it is no wonder that sleep , if it brings oblivion to her , does her good . 
Our opinion was justified , for when after a refreshing sleep of some hours she woke up , she seemed brighter and better than she had been for days . 
At sunset she made the usual hypnotic report . 
Wherever he may be in the Black Sea , the Count is hurrying to his destination . 
To his doom , I trust ! October . 
Another day and no tidings of the Czarina Catherine . 
She ought to be here by now . 
That she is still journeying somewhere is apparent , for Mrs. Harker's hypnotic report at sunrise was still the same . 
It is possible that the vessel may be lying by , at times , for fog . 
Some of the steamers which came in last evening reported patches of fog both to north and south of the port . 
We must continue our watching , as the ship may now be signalled any moment . 
No news yet of the ship we wait for . 
Mrs. Harker reported last night and this morning as usual . 
Lapping waves and rushing water , though she added that the waves were very faint . 
The telegrams from London have been the same , no further report . 
Van Helsing is terribly anxious , and told me just now that he fears the Count is escaping us . 
He added significantly , I did not like that lethargy of Madam Mina's . 
Souls and memories can do strange things during trance . 
I was about to as k him more , but Harker just then came in , and he held up a warning hand . 
We must try tonight at sunset to make her speak more fully when in her hypnotic state . 
Rufus Smith , London , to Lord Godalming , care H. B. M. Vice Consul , Varna Czarina Catherine reported entering Galatz at one o'clock today . 
When the telegram came announcing the arrival in Galatz I do not think it was such a shock to any of us as might have been expected . 
True , we did not know whence , or how , or when , the bolt would come . 
But I think we all expected that something strange would happen . 
The day of arrival at Varna made us individually satisfied that things would not be just as we had expected . 
We only waited to learn where the change would occur . 
None the less , however , it was a surprise . 
Transcendentalism is a beacon to the angels , even if it be a will o' the wisp to man . 
Van Helsing raised his hand over his head for a moment , as though in remonstrance with the Almighty . 
But he said not a word , and in a few seconds stood up with his face sternly set . 
Lord Godalming grew very pale , and sat breathing heavily . 
I was myself half stunned and looked in wonder at one after another . 
Quincey Morris tightened his belt with that quick movement which I knew so well . 
In our old wandering days it meant action . 
Mrs. Harker grew ghastly white , so that the scar on her forehead seemed to burn , but she folded her hands meekly and looked up in prayer . 
When does the next train start for Galatz ? said Van Helsing to us generally . 
At tomorrow morning ! We all started , for the answer came from Mrs. Harker . 
How on earth do you know ? said Art . 
You forget , or perhaps you do not know , though Jonathan does and so does Dr . 
Van Helsing , that I am the train fiend . 
At home in Exeter I always used to make up the time tables , so as to be helpful to my husband . 
I found it so useful sometimes , that I always make a study of the time tables now . 
I knew that if anything were to take us to Castle Dracula we should go by Galatz , or at any rate through Bucharest , so I learned the times very carefully . 
Unhappily there are not many to learn , as the only train tomorrow leaves as I say . 
Wonderful woman ! murmured the Professor . 
Can't we get a special ? asked Lord Godalming . 
Van Helsing shook his head , I fear not . 
This land is very different from yours or mine . 
Even if we did have a special , it would probably not arrive as soon as our regular train . 
Moreover , we have something to prepare . 
You , friend Arthur , go to the train and get the tickets and arrange that all be ready for us to go in the morning . 
John will stay with Madam Mina and me , and we shall consult . 
For so if time be long you may be delayed . 
And it will not matter when the sun set , since I am here with Madam to make report . 
But Van Helsing and I , turning to each other , met each a grave and troubled glance . 
We said nothing at the time , however . 
She went away to get it . 
When the door was shut upon her he said to me , We mean the same ! Speak out ! Here is some change . 
It is a hope that makes me sick , for it may deceive us . 
Do you know why I asked her to get the manuscript ? No ! said I , unless it was to get an opportunity of seeing me alone . 
You are in part right , friend John , but only in part . 
I want to tell you something . 
And oh , my friend , I am taking a great , a terrible , risk . 
But I believe it is right . 
In the moment when Madam Mina said those words that arrest both our understanding , an inspiration came to me . 
In the trance of three days ago the Count sent her his spirit to read her mind . 
Or more like he took her to see him in his earth box in the ship with water rushing , just as it go free at rise and set of sun . 
Now he make his most effort to escape us . 
At present he want her not . 
He is sure with his so great knowledge that she will come at his call . 
But he cut her off , take her , as he can do , out of his own power , that so she come not to him . 
Hush ! Let me speak , and you shall learn . 
Oh , John , my friend , we are in awful straits . 
I fear , as I never feared before . 
We can only trust the good God . 
As she came in , she handed a number of sheets of typewriting to Van Helsing . 
He looked over them gravely , his face brightening up as he read . 
Do not fear ever to think . 
A half thought has been buzzing often in my brain , but I fear to let him loose his wings . 
Here now , with more knowledge , I go back to where that half thought come from and I find that he be no half thought at all . 
That be a whole thought , though so young that he is not yet strong to use his little wings . 
See I read here what Jonathan have written . 
What does this tell us ? Not much ? No ! The Count's child thought see nothing , therefore he speak so free . 
Your man thought see nothing . 
My man thought see nothing , till just now . 
No ! But there comes another word from some one who speak without thought because she , too , know not what it mean , what it might mean . 
But that show up all earth below for leagues and leagues . 
Is it not so ? Well , I shall explain . 
To begin , hav e you ever study the philosophy of crime ? Yes' and No. You , John , yes , for it is a study of insanity . 
You , no , Madam Mina , for crime touch you not , not but once . 
Still , your mind works true , and argues not a particulari ad universale . 
There is this peculiarity in criminals . 
It is so constant , in all countries and at all times , that even police , who know not much from philosophy , come to know it empirically , that it is . 
That is to be empiric . 
The criminal always work at one crime , that is the true criminal who seems predestinate to crime , and who will of none other . 
This criminal has not full man brain . 
He is clever and cunning and resourceful , but he be not of man stature as to brain . 
He be of child brain in much . 
Now this criminal of ours is predestinate to crime also . 
He , too , have child brain , and it is of the child to do what he have done . 
The little bird , the little fish , the little animal learn not by principle , but empirically . 
And when he learn to do , then there is to him the ground to start from to do more . 
Dos pou sto , said Archimedes . 
Give me a fulcrum , and I shall move the world ! To do once , is the fulcrum whereby child brain become man brain . 
He went on , Now you shall speak . 
Tell us two dry men of science what you see with those so bright eyes . 
He took her hand and held it whilst he spoke . 
His finger and thumb closed on her pulse , as I thought instinctively and unconsciously , as she spoke . 
The Count is a criminal and of criminal type . 
Nordau and Lombroso would so classify him , and qua criminal he is of an imperfectly formed mind . 
Thus , in a difficulty he has to seek resource in habit . 
He came again better equipped for his work , and won . 
So he came to London to invade a new land . 
He was beaten , and when all hope of success was lost , and his existence in danger , he fled back over the sea to his home . 
Just as formerly he had fled back over the Danube from Turkey Land . 
Good , good ! Oh , you so clever lady ! said Van Helsing , enthusiastically , as he stooped and kissed her hand . 
A moment later he said to me , as calmly as though we had been having a sick room consultation , Seventy two only , and in all this excitement . 
Turning to her again , he said with keen expectation , But go on . 
Go on ! There is more to tell if you will . 
I do in any case , and shall tell you if you are right . 
Speak , without fear ! I will try to . 
But you will forgive me if I seem too egotistical . 
Nay ! Fear not , you must be egotist , for it is of you that we think . 
Then , as he is criminal he is selfish . 
And as his intellect is small and his action is based on selfishness , he confines himself to one purpose . 
As he fled back over the Danube , leaving his forces to be cut to pieces , so now he is intent on being safe , careless of all . 
So his own selfishness frees my soul somewhat from the terrible power which he acquired over me on that dreadful night . 
I felt it ! Oh , I felt it ! Thank God , for His great mercy ! My soul is freer than it has been since that awful hour . 
And all that haunts me is a fear lest in some trance or dream he may have used my knowledge for his ends . 
But his child mind only saw so far . 
The hunter is taken in his own snare , as the great Psalmist says . 
He think , too , that as he cut himself off from knowing your mind , there can be no knowledge of him to you . 
At such times you go by my volition and not by his . 
And this power to good of you and others , you have won from your suffering at his hands . 
This is now all more precious that he know it not , and to guard himself have even cut himself off from his knowledge of our where . 
We , however , are not selfish , and we believe that God is with us through all this blackness , and these many dark hours . 
We shall follow him , and we shall not flinch . 
Even if we peril ourselves that we become like him . 
Friend John , this has been a great hour , and it have done much to advance us on our way . 
You must be scribe and write him all down , so that when the others return from their work you can give it to them , then they shall know as we do . 
And so I have written it whilst we wait their return , and Mrs. Harker has written with the typewriter all since she brought the MS to us . 
This is written in the train from Varna to Galatz . 
Last night we all assembled a little before the time of sunset . 
Usually she speaks on a hint , but this time the Professor had to ask her questions , and to ask them pretty resolutely , before we could learn anything . 
At last her answer came . 
There are no waves lapping , but only a steady swirl of water softly running against the hawser . 
I can hear men's voices calling , near and far , and the roll and creak of oars in the rowlocks . 
A gun is fired somewhere , the echo of it seems far away . 
There is tramping of feet overhead , and ropes and chains are dragged along . 
What is this ? There is a gleam of light . 
I can feel the air blowing upon me . 
She had risen , as if impulsively , from where she lay on the sofa , and raised both her hands , palms upwards , as if lifting a weight . 
Van Helsing and I looked at each other with understanding . 
Quincey raised his eyebrows slightly and looked at her intently , whilst Harker's hand instinctively closed round the hilt of his Kukri . 
There was a long pause . 
We all knew that the time when she could speak was passing , but we felt that it was useless to say anything . 
She bustled off to get tea . 
When she had gone Van Helsing said , You see , my friends . 
He is close to land . 
He has left his earth chest . 
But he has yet to get on shore . 
In the night he may lie hidden somewhere , but if he be not carried on shore , or if the ship do not touch it , he cannot achieve the land . 
In such case he can , if it be in the night , change his form and jump or fly on shore , then , unless he be carried he cannot escape . 
And if he be carried , then the customs men may discover what the box contain . 
Thus , in fine , if he escape not on shore tonight , or before dawn , there will be the whole day lost to him . 
We may then arrive in time . 
For if he escape not at night we shall come on him in daytime , boxed up and at our mercy . 
For he dare not be his true self , awake and visible , lest he be discovered . 
There was no more to be said , so we waited in patience until the dawn , at which time we might learn more from Mrs. Harker . 
Early this morning we listened , with breathless anxiety , for her response in her trance . 
The hypnotic stage was even longer in coming than before , and when it came the time remaining until full sunrise was so short that we began to despair . 
Van Helsing seemed to throw his whole soul into the effort . 
At last , in obedience to his will she made reply . 
I hear lapping water , level with me , and some creaking as of wood on wood . 
She paused , and the red sun shot up . 
We must wait till tonight . 
And so it is that we are travelling towards Galatz in an agony of expectation . 
We are due to arrive between two and three in the morning . 
But already , at Bucharest , we are three hours late , so we cannot possibly get in till well after sunup . 
Thus we shall have two more hypnotic messages from Mrs. Harker ! Either or both may possibly throw more light on what is happening . 
Sunset has come and gone . 
Fortunately it came at a time when there was no distraction . 
For had it occurred whilst we were at a station , we might not have secured the necessary calm and isolation . 
Mrs. Harker yielded to the hypnotic influence even less readily than this morning . 
I am in fear that her power of reading the Count's sensations may die away , just when we want it most . 
It seems to me that her imagination is beginning to work . 
Whilst she has been in the trance hitherto she has confined herself to the simplest of facts . 
If this goes on it may ultimately mislead us . 
If I thought that the Count's power over her would die away equally with her power of knowledge it would be a happy thought . 
But I am afraid that it may not be so . 
When she did speak , her words were enigmatical , Something is going out . 
I can feel it pass me like a cold wind . 
I can hear , far off , confused sounds , as of men talking in strange tongues , fierce falling water , and the howling of wolves . 
She stopped and a shudder ran through her , increasing in intensity for a few seconds , till at the end , she shook as though in a palsy . 
She said no more , even in answer to the Professor's imperative questioning . 
When she woke from the trance , she was cold , and exhausted , and languid , but her mind was all alert . 
She could not remember anything , but asked what she had said . 
When she was told , she pondered over it deeply for a long time and in silence . 
October , A. M. We are near Galatz now , and I may not have time to write later . 
Sunrise this morning was anxiously looked for by us all . 
Knowing of the increasing difficulty of procuring the hypnotic trance , Van Helsing began his passes earlier than usual . 
They produced no effect , however , until the regular time , when she yielded with a still greater difficulty , only a minute before the sun rose . 
The Professor lost no time in his questioning . 
Her answer came with equal quickness , All is dark . 
I hear water swirling by , level with my ears , and the creaking of wood on wood . 
There is another sound , a queer one like . 
She stopped and grew white , and whiter still . 
Go on , go on ! Speak , I command you ! said Van Helsing in an agonized voice . 
At the same time there was despair in his eyes , for the risen sun was reddening even Mrs. Harker's pale face . 
She opened her eyes , and we all started as she said , sweetly and seemingly with the utmost unconcern . 
Oh , Professor , why ask me to do what you know I can't ? I don't remember anything . 
We are on fire with anxiety and eagerness . 
Jonathan and the two doctors went to the shipping agent to learn particulars of the arrival of the Czarina Catherine . 
The Consul is away , and the Vice Consul sick . 
So the routine work has been attended to by a clerk . 
He was very obliging , and offered to do anything in his power . 
Seward , and I called on Messrs . 
Mackenzie Steinkoff , the agents of the London firm of Hapgood . 
They had received a wire from London , in answer to Lord Godalming's telegraphed request , asking them to show us any civility in their power . 
They were more than kind and courteous , and took us at once on board the Czarina Catherine , which lay at anchor out in the river harbor . 
There we saw the Captain , Donelson by name , who told us of his voyage . 
He said that in all his life he had never had so favorable a run . 
It's no canny to run frae London to the Black Sea wi' a wind ahint ye , as though the Deil himself were blawin' on yer sail for his ain purpose . 
An' a' the time we could no speer a thing . 
We ran by Gibraltar wi' oot bein' able to signal . 
An' til we came to the Dardanelles and had to wait to get our permit to pass , we never were within hail o' aught . 
At first I inclined to slack off sail and beat about till the fog was lifted . 
But whiles , I thocht that if the Deil was minded to get us into the Black Sea quick , he was like to do it whether we would or no . 
I had seen them speer at the fellow , and put out their twa fingers when they saw him , to guard them against the evil eye . 
An' if he didn't , well , we'd keep a sharp lookout anyhow . 
Sure eneuch , we had a fair way and deep water all the time . 
And two days ago , when the mornin' sun came through the fog , we found ourselves just in the river opposite Galatz . 
The Roumanians were wild , and wanted me right or wrong to take out the box and fling it in the river . 
I had to argy wi' them aboot it wi' a handspike . 
We didn't do much clearin' that day , an' had to remain the nicht at anchor . 
Sure eneuch the matter was one ready to his hand . 
He had his papers a' reet , an' gla d I was to be rid o' the dam' thing , for I was beginnin' masel' to feel uneasy at it . 
Van Helsing with restrained eagerness . 
I'll be tellin' ye quick ! he answered , and stepping down to his cabin , produced a receipt signed Immanuel Hildesheim . 
Burgen strasse was the address . 
We found out that this was all the Captain knew , so with thanks we came away . 
We found Hildesheim in his office , a Hebrew of rather the Adelphi Theatre type , with a nose like a sheep , and a fez . 
His arguments were pointed with specie , we doing the punctuation , and with a little bargaining he told us what he knew . 
This turned out to be simple but important . 
This he was to give in charge to a certain Petrof Skinsky , who dealt with the Slovaks who traded down the river to the port . 
He had been paid for his work by an English bank note , which had been duly cashed for gold at the Danube International Bank . 
When Skinsky had come to him , he had taken him to the ship and handed over the box , so as to save parterage . 
That was all he knew . 
We then sought for Skinsky , but were unable to find him . 
One of his neighbors , who did not seem to bear him any affection , said that he had gone away two days before , no one knew whither . 
This was corroborated by his landlord , who had received by messenger the key of the house together with the rent due , in English money . 
This had been between ten and eleven o'clock last night . 
We were at a standstill again . 
Whilst we were talking one came running and breathlessly gasped out that the body of Skinsky had been found inside the wall of the churchyard of St . 
Peter , and that the throat had been torn open as if by some wild animal . 
Those we had been speaking with ran off to see the horror , the women crying out . 
This is the work of a Slovak ! We hurried away lest we should have been in some way drawn into the affair , and so detained . 
As we came home we could arrive at no definite conclusion . 
We were all convinced that the box was on its way , by water , to somewhere , but where that might be we would have to discover . 
With heavy hearts we came home to the hotel to Mina . 
When we met together , the first thing was to consult as to taking Mina again into our confidence . 
Things are getting desperate , and it is at least a chance , though a hazardous one . 
As a preliminary step , I was released from my promise to her . 
MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL October , evening . 
I feel so grateful to the man who invented the Traveller's typewriter , and to Mr. Morris for getting this one for me . 
I should have felt quite astray doing the work if I had to write with a pen . 
Poor dear , dear Jonathan , what he must have suffered , what he must be suffering now . 
He lies on the sofa hardly seeming to breathe , and his whole body appears in collapse . 
His face is drawn with pain . 
Poor fellow , maybe he is thinking , and I can see his face all wrinkled up with the concentration of his thoughts . 
Oh ! if I could only help at all . 
I shall do what I can . 
Van Helsing , and he has got me all the papers that I have not yet seen . 
Whilst they are resting , I shall go over all carefully , and perhaps I may arrive at some conclusion . 
I shall try to follow the Professor's example , and think without prejudice on the facts before me . 
I do believe that under God's providence I have made a discovery . 
I shall get the maps and look over them . 
I am more than ever sure that I am right . 
My new conclusion is ready , so I shall get our party together and read it . 
It is well to be accurate , and every minute is precious . 
Count Dracula's problem is to get back to his own place . 
He must be brought back by some one . 
For had he power to move himself as he wished he could go either as man , or wolf , or bat , or in some other way . 
He evidently fears discovery or interference , in the state of helplessness in which he must be , confined as he is between dawn and sunset in his wooden box . 
How is he to be taken ? Here a process of exclusions may help us . 
By road , by rail , by water ? . 
There are endless difficulties , especially in leaving the city . 
And people are curious , and investigate . 
A hint , a surmise , a doubt as to what might be in the box , would destroy him . 
There are , or there may be , customs and octroi officers to pass . 
This is his highest fear . 
And in order to prevent his being betrayed he has repelled , so far as he can , even his victim , me ! . 
There is no one in charge of the box . 
It would have to take its chance of being delayed , and delay would be fatal , with enemies on the track . 
True , he might escape at night . 
Here is the safest way , in one respect , but with most danger in another . 
On the water he is powerless except at night . 
Even then he can only summon fog and storm and snow and his wolves . 
But were he wrecked , the living water would engulf him , helpless , and he would indeed be lost . 
He could have the vessel drive to land , but if it were unfriendly land , wherein he was not free to move , his position would still be desperate . 
We know from the record that he was on the water , so what we have to do is to ascertain what water . 
The first thing is to realize exactly what he has done as yet . 
We may , then , get a light on what his task is to be . 
We must differentiate between what he did in London as part of his general plan of action , when he was pressed for moments and had to arrange as best he could . 
Secondly we must see , as well as we can surmise it from the facts we know of , what he has done here . 
As to the first , he evidently intended to arrive at Galatz , and sent invoice to Varna to deceive us lest we should ascertain his means of exit from England . 
His immediate and sole purpose then was to escape . 
The proof of this , is the letter of instructions sent ot Immanuel Hildesheim to clear and take away the box before sunrise . 
There is also the instruction to Petrof Skinsky . 
These we must only guess at , but there must have been some letter or message , since Skinsky came to Hildesheim . 
That , so far , his plans were successful we know . 
The Czarina Catherine made a phenomenally quick journey . 
So much so that Captain Donelson's suspicions were aroused . 
But his superstition united with his canniness played the Count's game for him , and he ran with his favoring wind through fogs and all till he brought up blindfold at Galatz . 
That the Count's arrangements were well made , has been proved . 
Hildesheim cleared the box , took it off , and gave it to Skinsky . 
Skinsky took it , and here we lose the trail . 
We only know that the box is somewhere on the water , moving along . 
The customs and the octroi , if there be any , have been avoided . 
Now we come to what the Count must have done after his arrival , on land , at Galatz . 
The box was given to Skinsky before sunrise . 
At sunrise the Count could appear in his own form . 
And the man's remark , that the murder was the work of a Slovak , showed the general feeling against his class . 
My surmise is this , that in London the Count decided to get back to his castle by water , as the most safe and secret way . 
He was brought from the castle by Szgany , and probably they delivered their cargo to Slovaks who took the boxes to Varna , for there they were shipped to London . 
Thus the Count had knowledge of the persons who could arrange this service . 
When this was done , and he knew that all was in train , he blotted out his traces , as he thought , by murdering his agent . 
I have examined the map and find that the river most suitable for the Slovaks to have ascended is either the Pruth or the Sereth . 
I read in the typescript that in my trance I heard cows low and water swirling level with my ears and the creaking of wood . 
There would be no such if floating down stream . 
Of course it may not be either the Sereth or the Pruth , but we may possibly investigate further . 
Now of these two , the Pruth is the more easily navigated , but the Sereth is , at Fundu , joined by the Bistritza which runs up round the Borgo Pass . 
The loop it makes is manifestly as close to Dracula's castle as can be got by water . 
MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL CONTINUED When I had done reading , Jonathan took me in his arms and kissed me . 
The others kept shaking me by both hands , and Dr . 
Van Helsing said , Our dear Madam Mina is once more our teacher . 
Her eyes have been where we were blinded . 
Now we are on the track once again , and this time we may succeed . 
Our enemy is at his most helpless . 
And if we can come on him by day , on the water , our task will be over . 
He has a start , but he is powerless to hasten , as he may not leave this box lest those who carry him may suspect . 
For them to suspect would be to prompt them to throw him in the stream where he perish . 
This he knows , and will not . 
Now men , to our Council of War , for here and now , we must plan what each and all shall do . 
I shall get a steam launch and follow him , said Lord Godalming . 
And I , horses to follow on the bank lest by chance he land , said Mr. Morris . 
Good ! said the Professor , both good . 
But neither must go alone . 
There must be force to overcome force if need be . 
The Slovak is strong and rough , and he carries rude arms . 
All the men smiled , for amongst them they carried a small arsenal . 
Said Mr. Morris , I have brought some Winchesters . 
They are pretty handy in a crowd , and there may be wolves . 
The Count , if you remember , took some other precautions . 
He made some requisitions on others that Mrs. Harker could not quite hear or understand . 
We must be ready at all points . 
Seward said , I think I had better go with Quincey . 
We have been accustomed to hunt together , and we two , well armed , will be a match for whatever may come along . 
You must not be alone , Art . 
It may be necessary to fight the Slovaks , and a chance thrust , for I don't suppose these fellows carry guns , would undo all our plans . 
There must be no chances , this time . 
We shall not rest until the Count's head and body have been separated , and we are sure that he cannot reincarnate . 
He looked at Jonathan as he spoke , and Jonathan looked at me . 
I could see that the poor dear was torn about in his mind . 
Of course he wanted to be with me . 
But then the boat service would , most likely , be the one which would destroy the . 
He was silent awhile , and during his silence Dr . 
Van Helsing spoke , Friend Jonathan , this is to you for twice reasons . 
First , because you are young and brave and can fight , and all energies may be needed at the last . 
And again that it is your right to destroy him . 
That , which has wrought such woe to you and yours . 
Be not afraid for Madam Mina . 
She will be my care , if I may . 
My legs are not so quick to run as once . 
And I am not used to ride so long or to pursue as need be , or to fight with lethal weapons . 
But I can be of other service . 
I can fight in other way . 
And I can die , if need be , as well as younger men . 
Now let me say that what I would is this . 
There is much to be done , and other places to be made sanctify , so that that nest of vipers be obliterated . 
The Professor's voice , as he spoke in clear , sweet tones , which seemed to vibrate in the air , calmed us all . 
Oh , my friend , it is because I would save Madam Mina from that awful place that I would go . 
God forbid that I should take her into that place . 
There is work , wild work , to be done before that place can be purify . 
Remember that we are in terrible straits . 
You have told us of their gloating lips . 
You heard their ribald laugh as they clutched the moving bag that the Count threw to them . 
You shudder , and well may it be . 
Forgive me that I make you so much pain , but it is necessary . 
Do as you will , said Jonathan , with a sob that shook him all over , we are in the hands of God ! Later . 
Oh , it did me good to see the way that these brave men worked . 
I felt so thankful that Lord Godalming is rich , and both he and Mr. Morris , who also has plenty of money , are willing to spend it so freely . 
For if they did not , our little expedition could not start , either so promptly or so well equipped , as it will within another hour . 
It is not three hours since it was arranged what part each of us was to do . 
And now Lord Godalming and Jonathan have a lovely steam launch , with steam up ready to start at a moment's notice . 
Seward and Mr. Morris have half a dozen good horses , well appointed . 
We have all the maps and appliances of various kinds that can be had . 
Professor Van Helsing and I are to leave by the train tonight for Veresti , where we are to get a carriage to drive to the Borgo Pass . 
We are bringing a good deal of ready money , as we are to buy a carriage and horses . 
We shall drive ourselves , for we have no one whom we can trust in the matter . 
The Professor knows something of a great many languages , so we shall get on all right . 
We have all got arms , even for me a large bore revolver . 
Jonathan would not be happy unless I was armed like the rest . 
Alas ! I cannot carry one arm that the rest do , the scar on my forehead forbids that . 
Van Helsing comforts me by telling me that I am fully armed as there may be wolves . 
The weather is getting colder every hour , and there are snow flurries which come and go as warnings . 
It took all my courage to say goodby to my darling . 
We may never meet again . 
Courage , Mina ! The Professor is looking at you keenly . 
His look is a warning . 
There must be no tears now , unless it may be that God will let them fall in gladness . 
JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL October , night . 
I am writing this in the light from the furnace door of the steam launch . 
Lord Godalming is firing up . 
He is an experienced hand at the work , as he has had for years a launch of his own on the Thames , and another on the Norfolk Broads . 
We took it , that somewhere about the th degree , north latitude , would be the place chosen for crossing the country between the river and the Carpathians . 
We have no fear in running at good speed up the river at night . 
There is plenty of water , and the banks are wide enough apart to make steaming , even in the dark , easy enough . 
Lord Godalming tells me to sleep for a while , as it is enough for the present for one to be on watch . 
But I cannot sleep , how can I with the terrible danger hanging over my darling , and her going out into that awful place . 
My only comfort is that we are in the hands of God . 
Only for that faith it would be easier to die than to live , and so be quit of all the trouble . 
Seward were off on their long ride before we started . 
They are to keep up the right bank , far enough off to get on higher lands where they can see a good stretch of river and avoid the following of its curves . 
They have , for the first stages , two men to ride and lead their spare horses , four in all , so as not to excite curiosity . 
When they dismiss the men , which shall be shortly , they shall themselves look after the horses . 
It may be necessary for us to join forces . 
If so they can mount our whole party . 
One of the saddles has a moveable horn , and can be easily adapted for Mina , if required . 
It is a wild adventure we are on . 
We seem to be drifting into unknown places and unknown ways . 
Into a whole world of dark and dreadful things . 
Godalming is shutting the furnace door . 
The day has come , and Godalming is sleeping . 
The morning is bitterly cold , the furnace heat is grateful , though we have heavy fur coats . 
As yet we have passed only a few open boats , but none of them had on board any box or package of anything like the size of the one we seek . 
The men were scared every time we turned our electric lamp on them , and fell on their knees and prayed . 
We have found nothing of the kind we seek . 
We have now passed into the Bistritza , and if we are wrong in our surmise our chance is gone . 
We have overhauled every boat , big and little . 
Early this morning , one crew took us for a Government boat , and treated us accordingly . 
We saw in this a way of smoothing matters , so at Fundu , where the Bistritza runs into the Sereth , we got a Roumanian flag which we now fly conspicuously . 
With every boat which we have overhauled since then this trick has succeeded . 
We have had every deference shown to us , and not once any objection to whatever we chose to ask or do . 
Some of the Slovaks tell us that a big boat passed them , going at more than usual speed as she had a double crew on board . 
This was before they came to Fundu , so they could not tell us whether the boat turned into the Bistritza or continued on up the Sereth . 
At Fundu we could not hear of any such boat , so she must have passed there in the night . 
I am feeling very sleepy . 
The cold is perhaps beginning to tell upon me , and nature must have rest some time . 
Godalming insists that he shall keep the first watch . 
God bless him for all his goodness to poor dear Mina and me . 
That good fellow would not wake me . 
He says it would have been a sin to , for I slept peacefully and was forgetting my trouble . 
It seems brutally selfish to me to have slept so long , and let him watch all night , but he was quite right . 
I am a new man this morning . 
And , as I sit here and watch him sleeping , I can do all that is necessary both as to minding the engine , steering , and keeping watch . 
I can feel that my strength and energy are coming back to me . 
I wonder where Mina is now , and Van Helsing . 
They should have got to Veresti about noon on Wednesday . 
It would take them some time to get the carriage and horses . 
So if they had started and travelled hard , they would be about now at the Borgo Pass . 
God guide and help them ! I am afraid to think what may happen . 
If we could only go faster . 
The engines are throbbing and doing their utmost . 
Seward and Mr. Morris are getting on . 
I hope that before we get to Strasba we may see them . 
For if by that time we have not overtaken the Count , it may be necessary to take counsel together what to do next . 
Three days on the road . 
No news , and no time to write it if there had been , for every moment is precious . 
We have had only the rest needful for the horses . 
But we are both bearing it wonderfully . 
Those adventurous days of ours are turning up useful . 
We shall never feel happy till we get the launch in sight again . 
We heard at Fundu that the launch had gone up the Bistritza . 
I wish it wasn't so cold . 
There are signs of snow coming . 
And if it falls heavy it will stop us . 
In such case we must get a sledge and go on , Russian fashion . 
Today we heard of the launch having been detained by an accident when trying to force a way up the rapids . 
The Slovak boats get up all right , by aid of a rope and steering with knowledge . 
Some went up only a few hours before . 
Godalming is an amateur fitter himself , and evidently it was he who put the launch in trim again . 
Finally , they got up the rapids all right , with local help , and are off on the chase afresh . 
We must push on harder than ever . 
Our help may be wanted soon . 
Arrived at Veresti at noon . 
The Professor tells me that this morning at dawn he could hardly hypnotize me at all , and that all I could say was , dark and quiet . 
He is off now buying a carriage and horses . 
He says that he will later on try to buy additional horses , so that we may be able to change them on the way . 
We have something more than miles before us . 
The country is lovely , and most interesting . 
If only we were under different conditions , how delightful it would be to see it all . 
If Jonathan and I were driving through it alone what a pleasure it would be . 
He has got the carriage and horses . 
We are to have some dinner , and to start in an hour . 
The landlady is putting us up a huge basket of provisions . 
It seems enough for a company of soldiers . 
The Professor encourages her , and whispers to me that it may be a week before we can get any food again . 
He has been shopping too , and has sent home such a wonderful lot of fur coats and wraps , and all sorts of warm things . 
There will not be any chance of our being cold . 
We shall soon be off . 
I am afraid to think what may happen to us . 
We are truly in the hands of God . 
He alone knows what may be , and I pray Him , with all the strength of my sad and humble soul , that He will watch over my beloved husband . 
That whatever may happen , Jonathan may know that I loved him and honored him more than I can say , and that my latest and truest thought will be always for him . 
CHAPTER MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL November . 
All day long we have travelled , and at a good speed . 
The horses seem to know that they are being kindly treated , for they go willingly their full stage at best speed . 
We have now had so many changes and find the same thing so constantly that we are encouraged to think that the journey will be an easy one . 
Van Helsing is laconic , he tells the farmers that he is hurrying to Bistritz , and pays them well to make the exchange of horses . 
We get hot soup , or coffee , or tea , and off we go . 
It is a lovely country . 
Full of beauties of all imaginable kinds , and the people are brave , and strong , and simple , and seem full of nice qualities . 
They are very , very superstitious . 
I believe they went to the trouble of putting an extra amount of garlic into our food , and I can't abide garlic . 
Ever since then I have taken care not to take off my hat or veil , and so have escaped their suspicions . 
We are travelling fast , and as we have no driver with us to carry tales , we go ahead of scandal . 
But I daresay that fear of the evil eye will follow hard behind us all the way . 
All day he would not take any rest , though he made me sleep for a long spell . 
At sunset time he hypnotized me , and he says I answered as usual , darkness , lapping water and creaking wood . 
So our enemy is still on the river . 
I am afraid to think of Jonathan , but somehow I have now no fear for him , or for myself . 
I write this whilst we wait in a farmhouse for the horses to be ready . 
Poor dear , he looks very tired and old and grey , but his mouth is set as firmly as a conqueror's . 
Even in his sleep he is intense with resolution . 
When we have well started I must make him rest whilst I drive . 
I shall tell him that we have days before us , and he must not break down when most of all his strength will be needed . 
I was successful , and we took turns driving all night . 
Now the day is on us , bright though cold . 
There is a strange heaviness in the air . 
I say heaviness for want of a better word . 
I mean that it oppresses us both . 
It is very cold , and only our warm furs keep us comfortable . 
At dawn Van Helsing hypnotized me . 
He says I answered darkness , creaking wood and roaring water , so the river is changing as they ascend . 
I do hope that my darling will not run any chance of danger , more than need be , but we are in God's hands . 
We both seem in good spirits . 
I think we make an effort each to cheer the other , in the doing so we cheer ourselves . 
Van Helsing says that by morning we shall reach the Borgo Pass . 
He got two in addition to the two we changed , so that now we have a rude four in hand . 
The dear horses are patient and good , and they give us no trouble . 
We are not worried with other travellers , and so even I can drive . 
We shall get to the Pass in daylight . 
We do not want to arrive before . 
So we take it easy , and have each a long rest in turn . 
Oh , what will tomorrow bring to us ? We go to seek the place where my poor darling suffered so much . 
God grant that we may be guided aright , and that He will deign to watch over my husband and those dear to us both , and who are in such deadly peril . 
As for me , I am not worthy in His sight . 
MEMORANDUM BY ABRAHAM VAN HELSING November . 
This to my old and true friend John Seward , M. D. , of Purefleet , London , in case I may not see him . 
It is morning , and I write by a fire which all the night I have kept alive , Madam Mina aiding me . 
It is cold , cold . 
So cold that the grey heavy sky is full of snow , which when it falls will settle for all winter as the ground is hardening to receive it . 
It seems to have affected Madam Mina . 
She has been so heavy of head all day that she was not like herself . 
She sleeps , and sleeps , and sleeps ! She who is usual so alert , have done literally nothing all the day . 
She even have lost her appetite . 
She make no entry into her little diary , she who write so faithful at every pause . 
Something whisper to me that all is not well . 
However , tonight she is more vif . 
Her long sleep all day have refresh and restore her , for now she is all sweet and bright as ever . 
At sunset I try to hypnotize her , but alas ! with no effect . 
The power has grown less and less with each day , and tonight it fail me altogether . 
We got to the Borgo Pass just after sunrise yesterday morning . 
When I saw the signs of the dawn I got ready for the hypnotism . 
We stopped our carriage , and got down so that there might be no disturbance . 
I made a couch with furs , and Madam Mina , lying down , yield herself as usual , but more slow and more short time than ever , to the hypnotic sleep . 
As before , came the answer , darkness and the swirling of water . 
Then she woke , bright and radiant and we go on our way and soon reach the Pass . 
At this time and place , she become all on fire with zeal . 
Some new guiding power be in her manifested , for she point to a road and say , This is the way . 
How know you it ? I ask . 
It is used but little , and very different from the coach road from the Bukovina to Bistritz , which is more wide and hard , and more of use . 
So we came down this road . 
I give rein to them , and they go on so patient . 
By and by we find all the things which Jonathan have note in that wonderful diary of him . 
Then we go on for long , long hours and hours . 
At the first , I tell Madam Mina to sleep . 
She try , and she succeed . 
She sleep all the time , till at the last , I feel myself to suspicious grow , and attempt to wake her . 
But she sleep on , and I may not wake her though I try . 
I do not wish to try too hard lest I harm her . 
For I know that she have suffer much , and sleep at times be all in all to her . 
I think I drowse myself , for all of sudden I feel guilt , as though I have done something . 
I find myself bolt up , with the reins in my hand , and the good horses go along jog , jog , just as ever . 
I look down and find Madam Mina still asleep . 
For we are going up , and up , and all is oh , so wild and rocky , as though it were the end of the world . 
Then I arouse Madam Mina . 
This time she wake with not much trouble , and then I try to put her to hypnotic sleep . 
But she sleep not , being as though I were not . 
Still I try and try , till all at once I find her and myself in dark , so I look round , and find that the sun have gone down . 
Madam Mina laugh , and I turn and look at her . 
She is now quite awake , and look so well as I never saw her since that night at Carfax when we first enter the Count's house . 
I am amaze , and not at ease then . 
But she is so bright and tender and thoughtful for me that I forget all fear . 
Then when I return to the fire she have my supper ready . 
I go to help her , but she smile , and tell me that she have eat already . 
That she was so hungry that she would not wait . 
I like it not , and I have grave doubts . 
But I fear to affright her , and so I am silent of it . 
She help me and I eat alone , and then we wrap in fur and lie beside the fire , and I tell her to sleep while I watch . 
But presently I forget all of watching . 
And when I sudden remember that I watch , I find her lying quiet , but awake , and looking at me with so bright eyes . 
Once , twice more the same occur , and I get much sleep till before morning . 
When I wake I try to hypnotize her , but alas ! Though she shut her eyes obedient , she may not sleep . 
The sun rise up , and up , and up , and then sleep come to her too late , but so heavy that she will not wake . 
I have to lift her up , and place her sleeping in the carriage when I have harnessed the horses and made all ready . 
Madam still sleep , and she look in her sleep more healthy and more redder than before . 
And I like it not . 
And I am afraid , afraid , afraid ! I am afraid of all things , even to think but I must go on my way . 
The stake we play for is life and death , or more than these , and we must not flinch . 
Let me be accurate in everything , for though you and I have seen some strange things together , you may at the first think that I , Van Helsing , am mad . 
That the many horrors and the so long strain on nerves has at the last turn my brain . 
All yesterday we travel , always getting closer to the mountains , and moving into a more and more wild and desert land . 
There are great , frowning precipices and much falling water , and Nature seem to have held sometime her carnival . 
Madam Mina still sleep and sleep . 
And though I did have hunger and appeased it , I could not waken her , even for food . 
I began to fear that the fatal spell of the place was upon her , tainted as she is with that Vampire baptism . 
Well , said I to myself , if it be that she sleep all the day , it shall also be that I do not sleep at night . 
As we travel on the rough road , for a road of an ancient and imperfect kind there was , I held down my head and slept . 
Again I waked with a sense of guilt and of time passed , and found Madam Mina still sleeping , and the sun low down . 
But all was indeed changed . 
At once I exulted and feared . 
For now , for good or ill , the end was near . 
I woke Madam Mina , and again tried to hypnotize her , but alas ! unavailing till too late . 
I took out the horses and fed them in what shelter I could . 
Then I make a fire , and near it I make Madam Mina , now awake and more charming than ever , sit comfortable amid her rugs . 
I got ready food , but she would not eat , simply saying that she had not hunger . 
I did not press her , knowing her unavailingness . 
But I myself eat , for I must needs now be strong for all . 
Then , with the fear on me of what might be , I drew a ring so big for her comfort , round where Madam Mina sat . 
And over the ring I passed some of the wafer , and I broke it fine so that all was well guarded . 
She sat still all the time , so still as one dead . 
And she grew whiter and even whiter till the snow was not more pale , and no word she said . 
But when I drew near , she clung to me , and I could know that the poor soul shook her from head to feet with a tremor that was pain to feel . 
I said to her presently , when she had grown more quiet , Will you not come over to the fire ? for I wished to make a test of what she could . 
She rose obedient , but when she have made a step she stopped , and stood as one stricken . 
Why not go on ? I asked . 
She shook her head , and coming back , sat down in her place . 
Then , looking at me with open eyes , as of one waked from sleep , she said simply , I cannot ! and remained silent . 
I rejoiced , for I knew that what she could not , none of those that we dreaded could . 
When they did feel my hands on them , they whinnied low as in joy , and licked at my hands and were quiet for a time . 
All was in dead , grim silence only that the horses whinnied and cowered , as if in terror of the worst . 
I began to fear , horrible fears . 
But then came to me the sense of safety in that ring wherein I stood . 
I began too , to think that my imaginings were of the night , and the gloom , and the unrest that I have gone through , and all the terrible anxiety . 
It was as though my memories of all Jonathan's horrid experience were befooling me . 
For the snow flakes and the mist began to wheel and circle round , till I could get as though a shadowy glimpse of those women that would have kissed him . 
And then the horses cowered lower and lower , and moaned in terror as men do in pain . 
Even the madness of fright was not to them , so that they could break away . 
I feared for my dear Madam Mina when these weird figures drew near and circled round . 
I looked at her , but she sat calm , and smiled at me . 
No ! No ! Do not go without . 
Then , alas ! I knew . 
Did I not , I would soon have learned , for the wheeling figures of mist and snow came closer , but keeping ever without the Holy circle . 
Then they began to materialize till , if God have not taken away my reason , for I saw it through my eyes . 
There were before me in actual flesh the same three women that Jonathan saw in the room , when they would have kissed his throat . 
I knew the swaying round forms , the bright hard eyes , the white teeth , the ruddy color , the voluptuous lips . 
They smiled ever at poor dear Madam Mina . 
Come ! In fear I turned to my poor Madam Mina , and my heart with gladness leapt like flame . 
For oh ! the terror in her sweet eyes , the repulsion , the horror , told a story to my heart that was all of hope . 
God be thanked she was not , yet of them . 
I seized some of the firewood which was by me , and holding out some of the Wafer , advanced on them towards the fire . 
They drew back before me , and laughed their low horrid laugh . 
I fed the fire , and feared them not . 
For I knew that we were safe within the ring , which she could not leave no more than they could enter . 
The horses had ceased to moan , and lay still on the ground . 
The snow fell on them softly , and they grew whiter . 
I knew that there was for the poor beasts no more of terror . 
And so we remained till the red of the dawn began to fall through the snow gloom . 
I was desolate and afraid , and full of woe and terror . 
But when that beautiful sun began to climb the horizon life was to me again . 
At the first coming of the dawn the horrid figures melted in the whirling mist and snow . 
The wreaths of transparent gloom moved away towards the castle , and were lost . 
Instinctively , with the dawn coming , I turned to Madam Mina , intending to hypnotize her . 
But she lay in a deep and sudden sleep , from which I could not wake her . 
I tried to hypnotize through her sleep , but she made no response , none at all , and the day broke . 
I fear yet to stir . 
I have made my fire and have seen the horses , they are all dead . 
Today I have much to do here , and I keep waiting till the sun is up high . 
For there may be places where I must go , where that sunlight , though snow and mist obscure it , will be to me a safety . 
I will strengthen me with breakfast , and then I will do my terrible work . 
Madam Mina still sleeps , and God be thanked ! She is calm in her sleep . 
JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL November , evening . 
The accident to the launch has been a terrible thing for us . 
Only for it we should have overtaken the boat long ago , and by now my dear Mina would have been free . 
I fear to think of her , off on the wolds near that horrid place . 
We have got horses , and we follow on the track . 
I note this whilst Godalming is getting ready . 
The Szgany must look out if they mean to fight . 
Oh , if only Morris and Seward were with us . 
We must only hope ! If I write no more Goodby Mina ! God bless and keep you . 
With the dawn we saw the body of Szgany before us dashing away from the river with their leiter wagon . 
They surrounded it in a cluster , and hurried along as though beset . 
The snow is falling lightly and there is a strange excitement in the air . 
It may be our own feelings , but the depression is strange . 
Far off I hear the howling of wolves . 
The snow brings them down from the mountains , and there are dangers to all of us , and from all sides . 
The horses are nearly ready , and we are soon off . 
We ride to death of some one . 
God alone knows who , or where , or what , or when , or how it may be . 
VAN HELSING'S MEMORANDUM November , afternoon . 
I am at least sane . 
Thank God for that mercy at all events , though the proving it has been dreadful . 
When I left Madam Mina sleeping within the Holy circle , I took my way to the castle . 
Jonathan's bitter experience served me here . 
By memory of his diary I found my way to the old chapel , for I knew that here my work lay . 
It seemed as if there was some sulphurous fume , which at times made me dizzy . 
Either there was a roaring in my ears or I heard afar off the howl of wolves . 
Then I bethought me of my dear Madam Mina , and I was in terrible plight . 
The dilemma had me between his horns . 
Her , I had not dare to take into this place , but left safe from the Vampire in that Holy circle . 
And yet even there would be the wolf ! I resolve me that my work lay here , and that as to the wolves we must submit , if it were God's will . 
At any rate it was only death and freedom beyond . 
So did I choose for her . 
I knew that there were at least three graves to find , graves that are inhabit . 
So I search , and search , and I find one of them . 
She lay in her Vampire sleep , so full of life and voluptuous beauty that I shudder as though I have come to do murder . 
So he delay , and delay , and delay , till the mere beauty and the fascination of the wanton Undead have hypnotize him . 
And he remain on and on , till sunset come , and the Vampire sleep be over . 
Then the beautiful eyes of the fair woman open and look love , and the voluptuous mouth present to a kiss , and the man is weak . 
And there remain one more victim in the Vampire fold . 
One more to swell the grim and grisly ranks of the Undead ! . 
Yes , I was moved . 
I , Van Helsing , with all my purpose and with my motive for hate . 
I was moved to a yearning for delay which seemed to paralyze my faculties and to clog my very soul . 
It may have been that the need of natural sleep , and the strange oppression of the air were beginning to overcome me . 
For it was the voice of my dear Madam Mina that I heard . 
Then I braced myself again to my horrid task , and found by wrenching away tomb tops one other of the sisters , the other dark one . 
I dared not pause to look on her as I had on her sister , lest once more I should begin to be enthrall . 
But God be thanked , that soul wail of my dear Madam Mina had not died out of my ears . 
And , before the spell could be wrought further upon me , I had nerved myself to my wild work . 
By this tim e I had searched all the tombs in the chapel , so far as I could tell . 
And as there had been only three of these Undead phantoms around us in the night , I took it that there were no more of active Undead existent . 
There was one great tomb more lordly than all the rest . 
Huge it was , and nobly proportioned . 
On it was but one word . 
DRACULA This then was the Undead home of the King Vampire , to whom so many more were due . 
Its emptiness spoke eloquent to make certain what I knew . 
Then began my terrible task , and I dreaded it . 
Had it been but one , it had been easy , comparative . 
But three ! To begin twice more after I had been through a deed of horror . 
Who would , if they could , have fought for their foul lives . 
Oh , my friend John , but it was butcher work . 
Had I not been nerved by thoughts of other dead , and of the living over whom hung such a pall of fear , I could not have gone on . 
I tremble and tremble even yet , though till all was over , God be thanked , my nerve did stand . 
I could not have endured the horrid screeching as the stake drove home , the plunging of writhing form , and lips of bloody foam . 
I should have fled in terror and left my work undone . 
When I stepped into the circle where Madam Mina slept , she woke from her sleep and , seeing me , cried out in pain that I had endured too much . 
Come ! she said , come away from this awful place ! Let us go to meet my husband who is , I know , coming towards us . 
She was looking thin and pale and weak . 
But her eyes were pure and glowed with fervor . 
I was glad to see her paleness and her illness , for my mind was full of the fresh horror of that ruddy vampire sleep . 
It was late in the afternoon when the Professor and I took our way towards the east whence I knew Jonathan was coming . 
We did not go fast , though the way was steeply downhill , for w e had to take heavy rugs and wraps with us . 
We dared not face the possibility of being left without warmth in the cold and the snow . 
When we had gone about a mile , I was tired with the heavy walking and sat down to rest . 
Then we looked back and saw where the clear line of Dracula's castle cut the sky . 
For we were so deep under the hill whereon it was set that the angle of perspective of the Carpathian mountains was far below it . 
There was something wild and uncanny about the place . 
We could hear the distant howling of wolves . 
They were far off , but the sound , even though coming muffled through the deadening snowfall , was full of terror . 
I knew from the way Dr . 
Van Helsing was searching about that he was trying to seek some strategic point , where we would be less exposed in case of attack . 
The rough roadway still led downwards . 
We could trace it through the drifted snow . 
In a little while the Professor signalled to me , so I got up and joined him . 
He had found a wonderful spot , a sort of natural hollow in a rock , with an entrance like a doorway between two boulders . 
He took me by the hand and drew me in . 
See ! he said , here you will be in shelter . 
And if the wolves do come I can meet them one by one . 
He brought in our furs , and made a snug nest for me , and got out some provisions and forced them upon me . 
He looked very sad , but did not reproach me . 
Taking his field glasses from the case , he stood on the top of the rock , and began to search the horizon . 
Suddenly he called out , Look ! Madam Mina , look ! Look ! I sprang up and stood beside him on the rock . 
He handed me his glasses and pointed . 
The snow was now falling more heavily , and swirled about fiercely , for a high wind was beginning to blow . 
However , there were times when there were pauses between the snow flurries and I could see a long way round . 
From the height where we were it was possible to see a great distance . 
And far off , beyond the white waste of snow , I could see the river lying like a black ribbon in kinks and curls as it wound its way . 
Straight in front of us and not far off , in fact so near that I wondered we had not noticed before , came a group of mounted men hurrying along . 
In the midst of them was a cart , a long leiter wagon which swept from side to side , like a dog's tail wagging , with each stern inequality of the road . 
Outlined against the snow as they were , I could see from the men's clothes that they were peasants or gypsies of some kind . 
On the cart was a great square chest . 
My heart leaped as I saw it , for I felt that the end was coming . 
In fear I turned to the Professor . 
To my consternation , however , he was not there . 
An instant later , I saw him below me . 
Round the rock he had drawn a circle , such as we had found shelter in last night . 
See , he said , they come quickly . 
They are flogging the horses , and galloping as hard as they can . 
He paused and went on in a hollow voice , They are racing for the sunset . 
We may be too late . 
God's will be done ! Down came another blinding rush of driving snow , and the whole landscape was blotted out . 
It soon passed , however , and once more his glasses were fixed on the plain . 
Then came a sudden cry , Look ! Look ! Look ! See , two horsemen follow fast , coming up from the south . 
It must be Quincey and John . 
Look before the snow blots it all out ! I took it and looked . 
The two men might be Dr . 
I knew at all events that neither of them was Jonathan . 
At the same time I knew that Jonathan was not far off . 
Looking around I saw on the north side of the coming party two other men , riding at breakneck speed . 
One of them I knew was Jonathan , and the other I took , of course , to be Lord Godalming . 
They too , were pursuing the party with the cart . 
They are all converging , he said . 
When the time comes we shall have gypsies on all sides . 
I got out my revolver ready to hand , for whilst we were speaking the howling of wolves came louder and closer . 
When the snow storm abated a moment we looked again . 
Sweeping the glass all around us I could see here and there dots moving singly and in twos and threes and larger numbers . 
The wolves were gathering for their prey . 
Every instant seemed an age whilst we waited . 
The wind came now in fierce bursts , and the snow was driven with fury as it swept upon us in circling eddies . 
At times we could not see an arm's length before us . 
But at others , as the hollow sounding wind swept by us , it seemed to clear the air space around us so that we could see afar off . 
We had of late been so accustomed to watch for sunrise and sunset , that we knew with fair accuracy when it would be . 
And we knew that before long the sun would set . 
It was hard to believe that by our watches it was less than an hour that we waited in that rocky shelter before the various bodies began to converge close upon us . 
The wind came now with fiercer and more bitter sweeps , and more steadily from the north . 
It seemingly had driven the snow clouds from us , for with only occasional bursts , the snow fell . 
We could distinguish clearly the individuals of each party , the pursued and the pursuers . 
Strangely enough those pursued did not seem to realize , or at least to care , that they were pursued . 
They seemed , however , to hasten with redoubled speed as the sun dropped lower and lower on the mountain tops . 
Closer and closer they drew . 
The Professor and I crouched down behind our rock , and held our weapons ready . 
I could see that he was determined that they should not pass . 
One and all were quite unaware of our presence . 
All at once two voices shouted out to , Halt ! One was my Jonathan's , raised in a high key of passion . 
The other Mr. Morris' strong resolute tone of quiet command . 
The gypsies may not have known the language , but there was no mistaking the tone , in whatever tongue the words were spoken . 
Instinctively they reined in , and at the instant Lord Godalming and Jonathan dashed up at one side and Dr . 
Seward and Mr. Morris on the other . 
They lashed the horses which sprang forward . 
But the four men raised their Winchester rifles , and in an unmistakable way commanded them to stop . 
At the same moment Dr . 
Van Helsing and I rose behind the rock and pointed our weapons at them . 
Seeing that they were surrounded the men tightened their reins and drew up . 
Issue was joined in an instant . 
For answer , all four men of our party threw themselves from their horses and dashed towards the cart . 
I should have felt terrible fear at seeing Jonathan in such danger , but that the ardor of battle must have been upon me as well as the rest of them . 
I felt no fear , but only a wild , surging desire to do something . 
Seeing the quick movement of our parties , the leader of the gypsies gave a command . 
His men instantly formed round the cart in a sort of undisciplined endeavor , each one shouldering and pushing the other in his eagerness to carry out the order . 
In the midst of this I could see that Jonathan on one side of the ring of men , and Quincey on the other , were forcing a way to the cart . 
It was evident that they were bent on finishing their task before the sun should set . 
Nothing seemed to stop or even to hinder them . 
Neither the levelled weapons nor the flashing knives of the gypsies in front , nor the howling of the wolves behind , appeared to even attract their attention . 
Jonathan's impetuosity , and the manifest singleness of his purpose , seemed to overawe those in front of him . 
Instinctively they cowered aside and let him pass . 
In an instant he had jumped upon the cart , and with a strength which seemed incredible , raised the great box , and flung it over the wheel to the ground . 
In the meantime , Mr. Morris had had to use force to pass through his side of the ring of Szgany . 
He had parried with his great bowie knife , and at first I thought that he too had come through in safety . 
Under the efforts of both men the lid began to yield . 
The nails drew with a screeching sound , and the top of the box was thrown back . 
By this time the gypsies , seeing themselves covered by the Winchesters , and at the mercy of Lord Godalming and Dr . 
Seward , had given in and made no further resistance . 
The sun was almost down on the mountain tops , and the shadows of the whole group fell upon the snow . 
I saw the Count lying within the box upon the earth , some of which the rude falling from the cart had scattered over him . 
He was deathly pale , just like a waxen image , and the red eyes glared with the horrible vindictive look which I knew so well . 
As I looked , the eyes saw the sinking sun , and the look of hate in them turned to triumph . 
But , on the instant , came the sweep and flash of Jonathan's great knife . 
I shrieked as I saw it shear through the throat . 
Whilst at the same moment Mr. Morris's bowie knife plunged into the heart . 
It was like a miracle , but before our very eyes , and almost in the drawing of a breath , the whole body crumbled into dust and passed from our sight . 
The Castle of Dracula now stood out against the red sky , and every stone of its broken battlements was articulated against the light of the setting sun . 
Those who were unmounted jumped upon the leiter wagon and shouted to the horsemen not to desert them . 
The wolves , which had withdrawn to a safe distance , followed in their wake , leaving us alone . 
Mr. Morris , who had sunk to the ground , leaned on his elbow , holding his hand pressed to his side . 
The blood still gushed through his fingers . 
I flew to him , for the Holy circle did not now keep me back , so did the two doctors . 
Jonathan knelt behind him and the wounded man laid back his head on his shoulder . 
With a sigh he took , with a feeble effort , my hand in that of his own which was unstained . 
With one impulse the men sank on their knees and a deep and earnest Amen broke from all as their eyes followed the pointing of his finger . 
NOTE Seven years ago we all went through the flames . 
And the happiness of some of us since then is , we think , well worth the pain we endured . 
It is an added joy to Mina and to me that our boy's birthday is the same day as that on which Quincey Morris died . 
His mother holds , I know , the secret belief that some of our brave friend's spirit has passed into him . 
His bundle of names links all our little band of men together . 
But we call him Quincey . 
It was almost impossible to believe that the things which we had seen with our own eyes and heard with our own ears were living truths . 
Every trace of all that had been was blotted out . 
The castle stood as before , reared high above a waste of desolation . 
When we got home we were talking of the old time , which we could all look back on without despair , for Godalming and Seward are both happily married . 
I took the papers from the safe where they had been ever since our return so long ago . 
We were struck with the fact , that in all the mass of material of which the record is composed , there is hardly one authentic document . 
Nothing but a mass of typewriting , except the later notebooks of Mina and Seward and myself , and Van Helsing's memorandum . 
We could hardly ask any one , even did we wish to , to accept these as proofs of so wild a story . 
Van Helsing summed it all up as he said , with our boy on his knee . 
We ask none to believe us ! This boy will some day know what a brave and gallant woman his mother is . 
Already he knows her sweetness and loving care . 
Later on he will understand how some men so loved her , that they did dare much for her sake . 
