Scanned with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
For Edward , the uniforms , accoutrements , colours , and mottoes of the regiments composing the British Army had a special glamour . 
My own accomplishment was of another character took , as it seemed to me , a wider and a more untrammelled range . 
Dragoons might have swaggered in Lincoln green , riflemen might have donned sporrans over tartan trews , without exciting notice or comment from me . 
But did you seek precise information as to the fauna of the American continent , then you had come to the right shop . 
By the others my equipment was fully recognized . 
A writer might have won fame throughout the civilized globe for his trappers and his realistic backwoods , and all went for nothing . 
If his pemmican were not properly compounded I damned his achievement , and it was heard no more of . 
Harold was hardly old enough to possess a special subject of his own . 
He had his instincts , indeed , and at bird's nesting they almost amounted to prophecy . 
Selina's subject , quite unaccountably , happened to be naval history . 
There is no laying down rules as to subjects you just possess them or rather , they possess you and their genesis or protoplasm is rarely to be tracked down . 
Selina had never so much as seen the sea but for that matter neither had I ever set foot on the American continent , the by ways of which I knew so intimately . 
When that golden period arrived , Selina was busy indeed and , while loving best to stand where the splinters were flying the thickest . 
she was also a careful and critical student of seamanship and of manoeuvre . 
and she habitually went into an engagement on the quarter deck of the gallant ship that reserved its fire the longest . 
At the time of Selina's weird seizure I was unfortunately away from home , on a loathsome visit to an aunt and my account is therefore feebly compounded from hearsay . 
It was an absence I never ceased to regret scoring it up , with a sense of injury , against the aunt . 
There was a splendid uselessness about the whole performance that specially appealed to my artistic sense . 
Edward also was absent , getting licked into shape at school but to him the loss was nothing . 
With his stern practical bent he wouldn't have seen any sense in it to recall one of his favourite expressions . 
October was mellowing fast , and with it the year itself full of tender hints , in woodland and hedgerow , of a course well nigh completed . 
From all sides that still afternoon you caught the quick breathing and sob of the runner nearing the goal . 
There she was presently joined by Harold , breathless and very full of his latest grievance . 
I asked him not to , he burst out . 
But he just said he was very sorry , but bacon didn't wait for nobody . 
So I told him he was a regular beast , and then I came away . 
And and I b'lieve they're doing it now ! Yes , he's a beast , agreed Selina , absently . 
She had forgotten all about the pig killing . 
Harold kicked away a freshly thrown up mole hill , and prodded down the hole with a stick . 
D'you know what day it is ? said Selina presently , in a low voice , looking far away before her . 
Harold did not appear to know , nor yet to care . 
He had laid open his mole run for a yard or so , and was still grubbing at it absorbedly . 
It's Trafalgar Day , went on Selina , trancedly Trafalgar Day and nobody cares ! Something in her tone told Harold that he was not behaving quite becomingly . 
He didn't exactly know in what manner still , he abandoned his mole hunt for a more courteous attitude of attention . 
Over there , resumed Selina she was gazing out in the direction of the old highroad over there the coaches used to go by . 
Uncle Thomas was telling me about it the other day . 
And the people used to watch for 'em coming , to tell the time by , and p'r'aps to get their parcels . 
He would much rather have been hunting the mole , who must have been a mile away by this time if he had his wits about him . 
But he had all the natural instincts of a gentleman of whom it is one of the principal marks , if not the complete definition , never to show signs of being bored . 
Selina rose to her feet , and paced the turf restlessly with a short quarter deck walk . 
Why can't we DO something ? she burst out presently . 
HE he did everything why can't we do anything for him ? WHO did everything ? inquired Harold , meekly . 
It was useless wasting further longings on that mole . 
Like the dead , he travelled fast . 
Why , Nelson , of course , said Selina , shortly , still looking restlessly around for help or suggestion . 
But he's he's DEAD , isn't he ? asked Harold , slightly puzzled . 
What's that got to do with it ? retorted his sister , resuming her caged lion promenade . 
Harold was somewhat taken aback . 
In the case of the pig , for instance , whose last outcry had now passed into stillness , he had considered the chapter as finally closed . 
Whatever innocent mirth the holidays might hold in store for Edward , that particular pig , at least , would not be a contributor . 
And now he was given to understand that the situation had not materially changed ! He would have to revise his ideas , it seemed . 
Sitting up on end , he looked towards the garden for assistance in the task . 
Thence , even as he gazed , a tiny column of smoke rose straight up into the still air . 
Harold was up and off in a moment , forgetting Nelson , forgetting the pig , the mole , the Larkin betrayal , and Selina's strange fever of conscience . 
Here was fire , real fire , to play with , and that was even better than messing with water , or remodelling the plastic surface of the earth . 
Of all the toys the world provides for right minded persons , the original elements rank easily the first . 
As the quick footed dusk of the short October day stepped lightly over the garden , little red tongues of fire might be seen to leap and vanish in the smoke . 
Harold , anon staggering under armfuls of leaves , anon stoking vigorously , was discernible only at fitful intervals . 
The leaves were well alight by this time , and Harold had just added an old furze bush , which flamed and crackled stirringly . 
Go 'n' get some more sticks , ordered Selina , and shavings , 'n' chunks of wood , 'n' anything you can find . 
Look here in the kitchen garden there's a pile of old pea sticks . 
Go and fetch 'em quick ! shouted Selina , stamping with impatience . 
Harold ran off at once , true to the stern system of discipline in which he had been nurtured . 
But his eyes were like round O's , and as he ran he talked fast to himself , in evident disorder of mind . 
The pea sticks made a rare blaze , and the fire , no longer smouldering sullenly , leapt up and began to assume the appearance of a genuine bonfire . 
Harold , awed into silence at first , began to jump round it with shouts of triumph . 
Selina looked on grimly , with knitted brow she was not yet fully satisfied . 
Can't you get any more sticks ? she said presently . 
Get some old hampers and matting and things out of the tool house . 
Smash up that old cucumber frame Edward shoved you into , the day we were playing scouts and Mohicans . 
Stop a bit ! Hooray ! I know . 
You come along with me . 
Hard by there was a hot house , Aunt Eliza's special pride and joy , and even grimly approved of by the gardener . 
Harold followed obediently , prepared for any crime after that of the pea sticks , but pinching himself to see if he were really awake . 
You bring some coals , said Selina briefly , without any palaver or pro and con discussion . 
I'LL manage the faggots ! In a very few minutes there was little doubt about its being a genuine bonfire and no paltry makeshift . 
Aunt Eliza had driven out for hers a long way off , and was not expected back till quite late and this far end of the garden was not overlooked by any windows . 
So the Tribute blazed on merrily unchecked . 
Villagers far away , catching sight of the flare , muttered something about them young devils at their tricks again , and trudged on beer wards . 
No one seemed to know , nor to care , nor to sympathise . 
In all the ecstasy of her burnt offering and sacrifice , Selina stood alone . 
THEY at least knew all about it , THEY understood . 
Among THEM the Name was a daily familiar word his story was a part of the music to which they swung , himself was their fellow and their mate and comrade . 
So they peeped , and winked , and peeped again , and called to their laggard brothers to come quick and see . 
As for Harold , youth and a short memory made his case less pitiful than it seemed to his more sensitive sister . 
True , he started upstairs to his lonely cot bellowing dismally , before him a dreary future of pains and penalties , sufficient to last to the crack of doom . 
Yet it may be doubted whether Augustus was one of those rare fellows who thoroughly understood . 
Martha began it and yet Martha was not really to blame . 
Indeed , that was half the trouble of it no solid person stood full in view , to be blamed and to make atonement . 
There was only a wretched , impalpable condition to deal with . 
Inquiry below stairs revealed the cause . 
Martha's brother was dead , it seemed her sailor brother Billy drowned in one of those strange far off seas it was our dream to navigate one day . 
We had known Billy well , and appreciated him . 
When an approaching visit of Billy to his sister had been announced , we had counted the days to it . 
Moreover , I was still wanting my bootlace . 
This was a poor sort of a beginning to a day that , so far as outside conditions went , had promised so well . 
The moment I entered the schoolroom something in the air seemed to tell me that here , too , matters were strained and awry . 
Selina was staring listlessly out of the window , one foot curled round her leg . 
When I spoke to her she jerked a shoulder testily , but did not condescend to the civility of a reply . 
Charlotte , absolutely unoccupied , sprawled in a chair , and there were signs of sniffles about her , even at that early hour . 
It was but a trifling matter that had caused all this electricity in the atmosphere , and the girls' manner of taking it seemed to me most unreasonable . 
Within the last few days the time had come round for the despatch of a hamper to Edward at school . 
Only one hamper a term was permitted him , so its preparation was a sort of blend of revelry and religious ceremony . 
I forget their precise nature anyhow , they were nothing of any particular practical use to a boy . 
But they had involved some contrivance and labour , some skimping of pocket money , and much delightful cloud building as to the effect on their enraptured recipient . 
Never a word or a hint of the personal tributes or of his appreciation of them . 
To us to Harold and me , that is the letter seemed natural and sensible enough . 
After all , provender was the main thing , and five shillings stood for a complete equipment against the most unexpected turns of luck . 
The girls , however , in their obstinate way , persisted in taking their own view of the slight . 
Hence it was that I received my second rebuff of the morning . 
Somewhat disheartened , I made my way downstairs and out into the sunlight , where I found Harold playing conspirators by himself on the gravel . 
Harold liked black pumas , on the whole , as well as any animal we were familiar with . 
So I launched myself on him , with the appropriate howl , rolling him over on the gravel . 
Life may be said to be composed of things that come off and things that don't come off . 
This thing , unfortunately , was one of the things that didn't come off . 
From beneath me I heard a shrill cry of , Oh , it's my sore knee ! And Harold wriggled himself free from the puma's clutches , bellowing dismally . 
Now , I honestly didn't know he had a sore knee , and , what's more , he knew I didn't know he had a sore knee . 
According to boy ethics , therefore , his attitude was wrong , sore knee or not , and no apology was due from me . 
A fascinating pursuit this , and strictly illicit . 
But Harold would none of my overtures , and retreated to the house wailing with full lungs . 
Things were getting simply infernal . 
I struck out blindly for the open country and even as I made for the gate a shrill voice from a window bade me keep off the flower beds . 
All that I could do I had already done . 
What was wanted now was a complete change of environment . 
Some where in the world , I felt sure , justice and sympathy still resided . 
There were places called pampas , for instance , that sounded well . 
There were other pleasant corners , again , where you dived for pearls and stabbed sharks in the stomach with your big knife . 
No relations would be likely to come interfering with you when thus blissfully occupied . 
And yet I did not wish just yet to have done with relations entirely . 
They should be made to feel their position first , to see themselves as they really were , and to wish when it was too late that they had behaved more properly . 
Of all professions , the army seemed to lend itself the most thoroughly to the scheme . 
You enlisted , you followed the drum , you marched , fought , and ported arms , under strange skies , through unrecorded years . 
Folk would run together , clamorous , palsied with fear and among the terror stricken groups would figure certain aunts . 
And then but every boy has rehearsed this familiar piece a score of times . 
You are magnanimous , in fine that goes without saying you have a coal black horse , and a sabre cut , and you can afford to be very magnanimous . 
But all the same you give them a good talking to . 
This time I took refuge in happy thoughts of the sea . 
The sea was my real sphere , after all . 
On the sea , in especial , you could combine distinction with lawlessness , whereas the army seemed to be always weighted by a certain plodding submission to discipline . 
To be sure , by all accounts , the life was at first a rough one . 
But just then I wanted to suffer keenly I wanted to be a poor devil of a cabin boy , kicked , beaten , and sworn at for a time . 
Perhaps some hint , some inkling of my sufferings might reach their ears . 
By and by , as usually happened , an East Indiaman would come sailing along full of relations not a necessary relation would be missing . 
In all the repertory of heroes , none is more truly magnanimous than your pirate chief . 
Strangers might have been puzzled to classify it to me , an explorer from earliest years , the place was familiar enough . 
This last title I supposed to be intended for satire , and knew to be fatuously wrong . 
for something I never found , and had been taken in by them and treated as friend and comrade . 
On this particular morning I was in much too unsociable a mind for paying friendly calls . 
This , then , or something like it , should be my vocation and my revenge . 
A severer line of business , perhaps , such as I had read of something that included black bread and a hair shirt . 
There should be vows , too irrevocable , blood curdling vows and an iron grating . 
For me , I am vowed and dedicated , and my relations henceforth are austerity and holy works . 
It was the gardener's boy , I knew well enough a red proletariat , who hated me just because I was a gentleman . 
Hastily picking up a nice sticky clod in one hand , with the other I delicately projected my hat beyond the shelter of the tree trunk . 
I had not fought with Red skins all these years for nothing . 
As I had expected , another clod , of the first class for size and stickiness , took my poor hat full in the centre . 
Then , Ajax like , shouting terribly , I issued from shelter and discharged my ammunition . 
I got another clod in at short range we clinched on the brow of the hill , and rolled down to the bottom together . 
Bridges were made for narrow folk , for people with aims and vocations which compelled abandonment of many of life's highest pleasures . 
As I came forth on the common Harold broke out of an adjoining copse and ran to meet me , the morning rain clouds all blown away from his face . 
He had made a new squirrel stick , it seemed . 
Made it all himself melted the lead and everything ! I examined the instrument critically , and pronounced it absolutely magnificent . 
As we passed in at our gate the girls were distantly visible , gardening with a zeal in cheerful contrast to their heartsick lassitude of the morning . 
One of 'em turned up inside the cold duck . 
And that's why they weren't found at first . 
Instead , she was very kind and thoughtful with jams and things , feverishly pressing unwonted delicacies on us , who wanted little pressing enough . 
Then suddenly , when I was busiest , she disappeared and Charlotte whispered me presently that she had heard her go to her room and lock herself in . 
This struck me as a funny sort of proceeding . 
MUTABILE SEMPER She stood on the other side of the garden fence , and regarded me gravely as I came down the road . 
Then she said , Hi o ! and I responded , Hullo ! and pulled up somewhat nervously . 
To tell the truth , the encounter was not entirely unexpected on my part . 
The previous Sunday I had seen her in church , and after service it had transpired who she was , this new comer , and what aunt she was staying with . 
Certainly I had not yet formed any deliberate plan of action yet I suppose I recollected that the road to the Parsonage led past her aunt's garden . 
She began the conversation , while I hopped backwards and forwards over the ditch , feigning a careless ease . 
Saw you in church on Sunday , she said only you looked different then . 
How your boots squeaked when you came down the aisle ! When mine squeak , I walk in all the puddles till they stop . 
Think I'll get over the fence . 
I've been gardening , she explained , when she had joined me , but I didn't like it . 
There's so many worms about to day . 
Wish they'd keep out of the way when I'm digging . 
Oh , I like worms when I'm digging , I replied heartily , seem to make things more lively , don't they ? She reflected . 
From worms we passed , naturally enough , to frogs , and thence to pigs , aunts , gardeners , rocking horses , and other fellow citizens of our common kingdom . 
In five minutes we had each other's confidences , and I seemed to have known her for a lifetime . 
Somehow , on the subject of one's self it was easier to be frank and communicative with her than with one's female kin . 
It must be , I supposed , because she was less familiar with one's faulty , tattered past . 
No , I answered shyly , it wasn't that . 
Fact is , I was I often but it's a secret . 
There I made an error in tactics . 
That enkindling word set her dancing round me , half beseeching , half imperious . 
Oh , do tell it me ! she cried . 
Her hair was tumbled bewitchingly on her shoulders , and even the loss of a front tooth a loss incidental to her age seemed but to add a piquancy to her face . 
You won't care to hear about it , I said , wavering . 
Besides , I can't explain exactly . 
I think I won't tell you . 
But all the time I knew I should have to . 
But I DO care , she wailed plaintively . 
I didn't think you'd be so unkind ! This would never do . 
That little downward tug at either corner of the mouth I knew the symptom only too well ! It's like this , I began stammeringly . 
This bit of road here up as far as that corner you know it's a horrid dull bit of road . 
I'm always having to go up and down it , and I know it so well , and I'm so sick of it . 
So whenever I get to that corner , I just well , I go right off to another place ! What sort of a place ? she asked , looking round her gravely . 
Of course it's just a place I imagine , I went on hurriedly and rather shamefacedly but it's an awfully nice place the nicest place you ever saw . 
And I always go off there in church , or during joggraphy lessons . 
I'm sure it's not nicer than my home , she cried patriotically . 
Oh , you ought to see my home it's lovely ! We've got Yes it is , ever so much nicer , I interrupted . 
I mean I went on apologetically of course I know your home's beautiful and all that . 
But this MUST be nicer , 'cos if you want anything at all , you've only GOT to want it , and you can have it ! That sounds jolly , she murmured . 
Tell me more about it , please . 
Tell me how you get there , first . 
I don't quite know exactly , I replied . 
But generally it begins by well , you're going up a broad , clear river in a sort of a boat . 
You're not rowing or anything you're just moving along . 
And there's beautiful grass meadows on both sides , and the river's very full , quite up to the level of the grass . 
And you glide along by the edge . 
And so at last you come to the Palace steps great broad marble steps , reaching right down to the water . 
And there at the steps you find every sort of boat you can imagine schooners , and punts , and row boats , and little men of war . 
And you have any sort of boating you want to rowing , or sailing , or shoving about in a punt ! I'd go sailing , she said decidedly and I'd steer . 
No , YOU'D have to steer , and I'd sit about on the deck . 
No , I wouldn't though I'd row at least I'd make you row , and I'd steer . 
I don't think we'd boat at all , she finally decided . 
You can have all the creams , I said magnanimously , and I'll eat the hard sticks , 'cos I like 'em best . 
Oh , but you mustn't ! she cried impetuously . 
You must eat the same as I do ! It isn't nice to want to eat different . 
It seemed a little hard to be put under a sentimental restriction like this in one's own Chocolate room . 
What fizzy drinks are there ? she inquired . 
Oh , all sorts , I answered hastily , hurrying on . 
Then you go down the corridor , and at the back of the palace there's a great big park the finest park you ever saw . 
I'd go on the engine , she murmured dreamily . 
No , I wouldn't , I'd Then there's all the soldiers , I struck in . 
Really the line had to be drawn somewhere , and I could not have my railway system disorganised and turned upside down by a mere girl . 
There's any quantity of 'em , fine big soldiers , and they all belong to me . 
I won't have 'em fire off any guns ! You must tell 'em not to . 
I hate guns , and as soon as they begin firing I shall run right away ! But but that's what they're THERE for , I protested , aghast . 
I don't care , she insisted . 
They can walk about behind me if they like , and talk to me , and carry things . 
But they mustn't fire off any guns . 
The idea of my fine big soldiers being told off to carry things ! I was not inclined to tell her any more , though there still remained plenty more to tell . 
Any other boys there ? she asked presently , in a casual sort of way . 
Oh yes , I unguardedly replied . 
We'll have great Then I recollected myself . 
We'll play with them , of course , I went on . 
It's a dead secret , I said artfully . 
A secret between us two , and nobody knows it except ourselves ! Then she promised , nodding violently , big eyed , her mouth pursed up small . 
The delight of revelation , and the bliss of possessing a secret , run each other very close . 
But the latter generally wins for a time . 
This was annoying in every way , for , even if it cleared up later , the worms I knew well from experience would be offensively numerous and frisky . 
Harold got hold of a sheet of paper and a pencil , retired to a table in the corner , squared his elbows , and protruded his tongue . 
Literature had always been HIS form of artistic expression . 
She had been looking over my shoulder some minutes before I knew of it or I would have had a word or two to say upon the subject . 
I suppose you call that thing a ship , she remarked contemptuously . 
Who ever heard of a pink ship ? Hoo hoo ! I stifled my wrath , knowing that in order to score properly it was necessary to keep a cool head . 
There is a pink ship , I observed with forced calmness , lying in the toy shop window now . 
You can go and look at it if you like . 
D'you suppose you know more about ships than the fellows who make 'em ? Selina , baffled for the moment , returned to the charge presently . 
Those are funny things , too , she observed . 
S'pose they're meant to be trees . 
They ARE trees , I replied with severity and they ARE blue . 
They've got to be blue , 'cos you stole my gamboge last week , so I can't mix up any green . 
DIDN'T steal your gamboge , declared Selina , haughtily , edging away , however , in the direction of Harold . 
And I wouldn't tell lies , either , if I was you , about a dirty little bit of gamboge . 
I preserved a discreet silence . 
After all , I knew SHE knew she stole my gamboge . 
From somewhere in his interior proceeded a heart rending compound of squeal and whistle , as of escaping steam , long drawn , ear piercing , unvarying in note . 
I only just want to see , protested Selina , struggling to uproot his small body from the scrawl it guarded . 
But Harold clung limpet like to the table edge , and his shrill protest continued to deafen humanity and to threaten even the serenities of Olympus . 
The time seemed come for a demonstration in force . 
But the clannishness of sex has its unwritten laws . 
Boys , as such , are sufficiently put upon , maltreated , trodden under , as it is . 
Should they fail to hang together in perilous times , what disasters , what ignominies , may not be looked for ? Possibly even an extinction of the tribe . 
I dropped my paint brush and sailed shouting into the fray . 
The result for a short space hung dubious . 
There is a period of life when the difference of a year or two in age far outweighs the minor advantage of sex . 
Every black incident in my short , but not stainless , career every error , every folly , every penalty ignobly suffered were paraded before me as in a magic lantern show . 
The information , however , was not particularly new to me , and the effect was staled by previous rehearsals . 
Besides , a victory remains a victory , whatever the moral character of the triumphant general . 
Harold chuckled and crowed as he dropped from the table , revealing the document over which so many gathers had sighed their short lives out . 
YOU can read it if you like , he said to me gratefully . 
It's only a Death letter . 
It had never been possible to say what Harold's particular amusement of the hour might turn out to be . 
One thing only was certain , that it would be something improbable , unguessable , not to be foretold . 
The words will and testament have various meanings and uses but about the signification of death letter there can be no manner of doubt . 
I smoothed out the crumpled paper and read . 
In actual form it deviated considerably from that usually adopted by family solicitors of standing , the only resemblance , indeed , lying in the absence of punctuation . 
Why , you're not leaving me anything ! exclaimed Selina , indignantly . 
You're a regular mean little boy , and I'll take back the last birthday present I gave you ! I don't care , said Harold , repossessing himself of the document . 
The tempest within doors had kept my attention off the condition of things without . 
I had made a mistake , and those were not the surroundings in which she was most fitted to shine . 
Also there were processions through the bazaar at odd moments processions with camels , elephants , and palanquins . 
Yes , she was more suited for the East , this imperious young person and I determined that thither she should be personally conducted as soon as ever might be . 
I reached the fence and climbed up two bars of it , and leaning over I looked this way and that for my twin souled partner of the morning . 
It was not long before I caught sight of her , only a short distance away . 
Her back was towards me and well , one can never foresee exactly how one will find things she was talking to a Boy . 
Of course there are boys and boys , and Lord knows I was never narrow . 
But this was the parson's son from an adjoining village , a red headed boy and as common a little beast as ever stepped . 
With some trepidation I called out , Hi ! But answer there was none . 
Then again I called , Hi ! but this time with a sickening sense of failure and of doom . 
She replied only by a complex gesture , decisive in import if not easily described . 
The red headed boy never even condescended to glance my way . 
Why , indeed , should he ? I dropped from the fence without another effort , and took my way homewards along the weary road . 
Presently I became aware of a certain solace and consolation in my newly recovered independence of action . 
THE MAGIC RING Grown up people really ought to be more careful . 
Among themselves it may seem but a small thing to give their word and take back their word . 
For them there are so many compensations . 
In this case of the circus , for instance , it was not as if we had led up to the subject . 
It was they who began it entirely prompted thereto by the local newspaper . 
What , a circus ! said they , in their irritating , casual way that would be nice to take the children to . 
Wednesday would be a good day . 
Suppose we go on Wednesday . 
Oh , and pleats are being worn again , with rows of deep braid , etc . 
What the others thought I know not what they said , if they said anything , I did not comprehend . 
For me the house was bursting , walls seemed to cramp and to stifle , the roof was jumping and lifting . 
Nature seemed prim and staid that day and the globe gave no hint that it was flying round a circus ring of its own . 
Still , I would be content with very little , I would take a low percentage a very small proportion of the circus myth would more than satisfy me . 
Something was bound to happen , one of us would develop measles , the world would blow up with a loud explosion . 
I must not dare , I must not presume , to entertain the smallest hope . 
I must endeavour sternly to think of something else . 
Needless to say , I thought , I dreamed of nothing else , day or night . 
Waking , I walked arm in arm with a clown , and cracked a portentous whip to the brave music of a band . 
Sleeping , I pursued perched astride of a coal black horse a princess all gauze and spangles , who always managed to keep just one unattainable length ahead . 
I had known it could never really be I had said so to myself a dozen times . 
The vision was too sweetly ethereal for embodiment . 
Yet the pang of the disillusionment was none the less keen and sickening , and the pain was as that of a corporeal wound . 
It seemed strange and foreboding , when we entered the breakfast room , not to find everybody cracking whips , jumping over chairs , and whooping . 
In ecstatic rehearsal of the wild reality to come . 
The situation became grim and pallid indeed , when I caught the expressions garden party and my mauve tulle , and realized that they both referred to that very afternoon . 
And every minute , as I sat silent and listened , my heart sank lower and lower , descending relentlessly like a clock weight into my boot soles . 
Throughout my agony I never dreamed of resorting to a direct question , much less a reproach . 
Even during the period of joyful anticipation some fear of breaking the spell had kept me from any bald circus talk in the presence of them . 
No compromise for him , no evasions , no fallacious , unsecured promises to pay . 
Yelling should be his profession , his art , his mission , his career . 
He was qualified , he was resolute , and he was in no hurry to retire from the business . 
The noisy ones of the world , if they do not always shout themselves into the imperial purple , are sure at least of receiving attention . 
If they cannot sell everything at their own price , one thing silence must , at any cost , be purchased of them . 
Harold accordingly had to be consoled by the employment of every specious fallacy and base born trick known to those whose doom it is to handle children . 
Then I left the room without any remark . 
It made it worse if anything could to hear that stale , worn out old phrase , still supposed by those dullards to have some efficacy . 
To nature , as usual , I drifted by instinct , and there , out of the track of humanity , under a friendly hedge row had my black hour unseen . 
The world was a globe no longer , space was no more filled with whirling circuses of spheres . 
That day the old beliefs rose up and asserted themselves , and the earth was flat again ditch riddled , stagnant , and deadly flat . 
Here was a plan worth thinking out in all its bearings for something had presently to be done to end this intolerable state of things . 
Harold , it should be explained , was of a very different mental mould , and never brooded , moped , nor ate his heart out over any disappointment . 
One wild outburst one dissolution of a minute into his original elements of air and water , of tears and outcry so much insulted nature claimed . 
Then he would pull himself together , iron out his countenance with a smile , and adjust himself to the new condition of things . 
If the gods are ever grateful to man for anything , it is when he is so good as to display a short memory . 
Thereupon , filled full of orange juice and iniquity , he conceived a deadly snare . 
Such a stale old dodge as this would hardly have taken me in at ordinary moments . 
Some people can never allow events to work themselves out quietly . 
It was BLOOD we felt the need of just then . 
We wanted no luxuries , nothing dear bought nor far fetched . 
Just plain blood , and nothing else , and plenty of it . 
Blood , however , was not to be had . 
The time was out of joint , and we had been born too late . 
Then we emerged once more into historic times , and went off to the road to look for something living and sentient to throw stones at . 
Nature , so often a cheerful ally , sometimes sulks and refuses to play . 
When in this mood she passes the word to her underlings , and all the little people of fur and feather take the hint and slip home quietly by back streets . 
In vain we scouted , lurked , crept , and ambuscaded . 
Everything that usually scurried , hopped , or fluttered the small society of the undergrowth seemed to have engagements elsewhere . 
The horrid thought that perhaps they had all gone off to the circus occurred to us simultaneously , and we humped ourselves up on the fence and felt bad . 
Even the sound of approaching wheels failed to stir any interest in us . 
When you are bent on throwing stones at something , humanity seems obtrusive and better away . 
Then suddenly we both jumped off the fence together , our faces clearing . 
For our educated ear had told us that the approaching rattle could only proceed from a dog cart , and we felt sure it must be the funny man . 
What was more he would then go off with us at once and play the thing right out to its finish , earnestly and devotedly , putting all other things aside . 
So we called him the funny man , meaning only that he was different from those others who thought it incumbent on them to play the painful mummer . 
The ideal as opposed to the real man was what we meant , only we were not acquainted with the phrase . 
He pulled up to a walk as soon as he caught sight of us , and the dog cart crawled slowly along till it stopped just opposite . 
For you never knew exactly what this man might say or do . 
You look bored , he remarked presently thoroughly bored . 
Then it's only boredom , he said . 
Just satiety and world weariness . 
Well , if you assure me you aren't married you can climb into this cart and I'll take you for a drive . 
I want to do something dark and dreadful and exciting . 
We clambered in , of course , yapping with delight and treading all over his toes and as we set off , Harold demanded of him imperiously whither he was going . 
My wife , he replied , has ordered me to go and look up the curate and bring him home to tea . 
Does that sound sufficiently exciting for you ? Our faces fell . 
The curate of the hour was not a success , from our point of view . 
He was not a funny man , in any sense of the word . 
but I'm not going to , he added , cheerfully . 
Then I was to stop at some cottage and ask what was it ? There was NETTLE RASH mixed up in it , I'm sure . 
But never mind , I've forgotten , and it doesn't matter . 
Look here , we're three desperate young fellows who stick at nothing . 
Suppose we go off to the circus ? Of certain supreme moments it is not easy to write . 
The varying shades and currents of emotion may indeed be put into words by those specially skilled that way they often are , at considerable length . 
With shrill voice , uplifted in solemn chant , he sang the great spheral circus song , and the undying glory of the Ring . 
Of its timeless beginning he sang , of its fashioning by cosmic forces , and of its harmony with the stellar plan . 
Of horses he sang , of their strength , their swiftness , and their docility as to tricks . 
Of clowns again , of the glory of knavery , and of the eternal type that shall endure . 
Lastly he sang of Her the Woman of the Ring flawless , complete , untrammelled in each subtly curving limb earth's highest output , time's noblest expression . 
But indeed I cannot be quite sure , for I heard confusedly , as in a dream . 
Wings of fire sprang from the old mare's shoulders . 
We whirled on our way through purple clouds , and earth and the rattle of wheels were far away below . 
The place was beset by a hum and a glitter and a mist suspense brooded large o'er the blank , mysterious arena . 
Strung up to the highest pitch of expectation , we knew not from what quarter , in what divine shape , the first surprise would come . 
Here was a revelation ! From henceforth our imaginations would have to be revised and corrected up to date . 
Harold woke up with a gasp . 
Wasn't she beautiful ? he said , in quite a subdued way for him . 
I felt a momentary pang . 
We had been friendly rivals before , in many an exploit but here was altogether a more serious affair . 
Rules were not made for nothing , in a sensibly constructed universe . 
There was little more to wait for , now Coralie had gone yet I lingered still , on the chance of her appearing again . 
Next moment the clown tripped up and fell flat , with magnificent artifice , and at once fresh emotions began to stir . 
Love had endured its little hour , and stern ambition now asserted itself . 
Even Coralie's image wavered and receded . 
I would come back to her in the evening , of course but I would be a clown all the working hours of the day . 
So sated was I already with beauty and with wit , that I hardly dared hope for a fresh emotion . 
Yet her title was tinged with romance , and Coralie's display had aroused in me an interest in her sex which even herself had failed to satisfy entirely . 
Brayed in by trumpets , Zephyrine swung passionately into the arena . 
Black was her raiment , great silver stars shone through it , caught in the dusky twilight of her gauze black as her own hair were the two mighty steeds she bestrode . 
I know not rightly how we got home that evening . 
On the road there were everywhere strange presences , and the thud of phantom hoofs encircled us . 
In my nose was the pungent circus smell the crack of the whip and the frank laugh of the clown were in my ears . 
For the rest of the evening , distraught and silent , I only heard the march music of the band , playing on in some corner of my brain . 
All the characters in the pictures had to be assigned and dealt out among us , according to seniority , as far as they would go . 
For Edward this was satisfactory enough . 
from ignominy perhaps only too justly merited . 
Edward was indeed a hopeless grabber . 
, where women had a fair show , and there was generally enough of 'em to go round or a good fairy story , wherein princesses met with a healthy appreciation . 
Few of the other pictures about the house afforded equal facilities . 
They were generally wanting in figures , and even when these were present they lacked dramatic interest . 
Yes , I grudged Edward the armour man , and when he said I could have the fellow on the other side , I hung back and said I'd think about it . 
This fellow had no armour nor weapons , but wore a plain jerkin with a leather pouch a mere civilian and with one hand he pointed to a wound in his thigh . 
I didn't care about him , and when Harold eagerly put in his claim I gave way and let him have the man . 
The cause of Harold's anxiety only came out later . 
It was the wound he coveted , it seemed . 
He wanted to have a big , sore wound of his very own , and go about and show it to people , and excite their envy or win their respect . 
Charlotte was only too pleased to take the child angel seated at the lady's feet , grappling with a musical instrument much too big for her . 
Charlotte wanted wings badly , and , next to those , a guitar or a banjo . 
The angel , besides , wore an amber necklace , which took her fancy immensely . 
We knew these good folk to be saints and angels , because we had been told they were otherwise we should never have guessed it . 
They were serious , even melancholy and we had no desire to have any traffic with them . 
One doubt alone disturbed my mind . 
In games requiring agility , those wings of theirs would give them a tremendous pull . 
Could they be trusted to play fair ? I asked Selina , who replied scornfully that angels ALWAYS played fair . 
But I went back and had another look at the brown faced one peeping over the back of the lady's chair , and still I had my doubts . 
In this particular case , however , I made no haste to seize upon the armour man . 
Perhaps it was because I wanted a FRESH saint of my own , not a stale saint that Edward had been for so long a time . 
A very fascinating background it was , and held a great deal , though so tiny . 
Meadow land came first , set with flowers , blue and red , like gems . 
There was plenty to do in this pleasant land . 
The annoying thing about it was , one could never penetrate beyond a certain point . 
Inside , doubtless , there were high jinks going on but the password was denied to me . 
I could get on board a boat and row up as far as the curly ship , but around the headland I might not go . 
On the other side , of a surety , the shipping lay thick . 
The merchants walked on the quay , and the sailors sang as they swung out the corded bales . 
But as for me , I must stay down in the meadow , and imagine it all as best I could . 
Once I broached the subject to Charlotte , and found , to my surprise , that she had had the same joys and encountered the same disappointments in this delectable country . 
She proceeded to describe all the fun that was going on there , at such length and with so much particularity that I looked at her suspiciously . 
Why , you talk as if you'd been in that crow's nest yourself ! I said . 
Charlotte answered nothing , but pursed her mouth up and nodded violently for some minutes and I could get nothing more out of her . 
Evidently she had managed , somehow or other , to get up into that crow's nest . 
Charlotte had got ahead of me on this occasion . 
It was necessary , no doubt , that grown up people should dress themselves up and go forth to pay calls . 
I don't mean that we saw any sense in the practice . 
It would have been so much more reasonable to stay at home in your old clothes and play . 
Besides , they had many habits more objectionable than this one , which to us generally meant a free and untrammelled afternoon , wherein to play the devil in our own way . 
This was unpardonable and altogether detestable . 
Still , the thing happened , now and again and when it did , there was no arguing about it . 
The order was for the front , and we just had to shut up and march . 
So I thought it extremely mean in her to have the earache on that particular afternoon when Aunt Eliza ordered the pony carriage and went on the war path . 
The lady who received us was effusive to Aunt Eliza and hollowly gracious to me . 
In ten seconds they had their heads together and were hard at it talking CLOTHES . 
I was left high and dry on a straight backed chair , longing to kick the legs of it , yet not daring . 
For a time I was content to stare there was lots to stare at , high and low and around . 
Then the inevitable fidgets came on , and scratching one's legs mitigated slightly , but did not entirely disperse them . 
My two warders were still deep in clothes I slipped off my chair and edged cautiously around the room , exploring , examining , recording . 
Some articles , in addition , I smelt . 
At last in my orbit I happened on an open door , half concealed by the folds of a curtain . 
They were still deep in clothes , both talking together , and I slipped through . 
I read their titles longingly , breathing on every accessible pane of glass , for I dared not attempt to open the doors , with the enemy encamped so near . 
In the window , though , on a high sort of desk , there lay , all by itself , a most promising looking book , gorgeously bound . 
I inclined an ear to the door by which I had entered . 
Like the brimming tide of a full fed river the grand , eternal , inexhaustible clothes problem bubbled and eddied and surged along . 
They were excellent hearthrugs in that house soft and wide , with the thickest of pile , and one's knees sank into them most comfortably . 
When I got the book open there was a difficulty at first in making the great stiff pages lie down . 
Most fortunately the coal scuttle was actually at my elbow , and it was easy to find a flat bit of coal to lay on the refractory page . 
Really , it was just as if everything had been arranged for me . 
This was not such a bad sort of house after all . 
The beginnings of the thing were gay borders scrolls and strap work and diapered backgrounds , a maze of colour , with small misshapen figures clambering cheerily up and down everywhere . 
But first I eagerly scanned what text there was in the middle , in order to get a hint of what it was all about . 
Of course I was not going to waste any time in reading . 
A clue , a sign board , a finger post was all I required . 
To my dismay and disgust it was all in a stupid foreign language ! Really , the perversity of some people made one at times almost despair of the whole race . 
However , the pictures remained pictures never lied , never shuffled nor evaded and as for the story , I could invent it myself . 
Better still , the portcullis was up I could even catch a glimpse of the sunlit square within and a dainty company was trooping through the gate on horseback , two and two . 
Their horses , in trappings that swept the ground , were gay as themselves and THEY were the gayest crew , for dress and bearing , I had ever yet beheld . 
Confident , yet breathless with expectation , I turned the page . 
A public place , clearly , though not such as I was used to . 
The houses at the back stood on a sort of colonnade , beneath which the people jostled and crowded . 
The upper stories were all painted with wonderful pictures . 
Above the straight line of the roofs the deep blue of a cloudless sky stretched from side to side . 
This system of attire went straight to my heart . 
Evidently they were unable to get off duty , even for a wedding , and still stood on guard in that green meadow down below . 
I was disappointed , too , that not an angel was visible . 
But it was time to get on , for clearly the interest was only just beginning . 
Over went the next page , and there we were , the whole crowd of us , assembled in a noble church . 
It was not easy to make out exactly what was going on but in the throng I was delighted to recognize my angels at last , happy and very much at home . 
A third had strolled in among the company , and was chatting to a young gentleman , with whom she appeared to be on the best of terms . 
Decidedly , this was the right breed of angel for us . 
None of your sick bed or night nursery business for them ! Well , no doubt they were now being married , He and She , just as always happened . 
And then , of course , they were going to live happily ever after and THAT was the part I wanted to get to . 
We would all go home together , He and She , and the angels , and I and the armour man would be invited to come and stay . 
And then the story would really begin , at the point where those other ones always left off . 
I turned the page , and found myself free of the dim and splendid church and once more in the open country . 
This was all right this was just as it should be . 
The sky was a fleckless blue , the flags danced in the breeze , and our merry bridal party , with jest and laughter , jogged down to the water side . 
So his unsympathetic manner did not add to my depression . 
And the thoughts that I was thinking were two . 
There ought to be no real difficulty in the task . 
It only meant asking here and asking there , and people were very obliging , and I could describe every stick and stone of it . 
As for the island which I had never even seen , that was not so easy . 
Yet I felt confident that somehow , at some time , sooner or later , I was destined to arrive . 
A SAGA OF THE SEAS It happened one day that some ladies came to call , who were not at all the sort I was used to . 
They suffered from a grievance , so far as I could gather , and the burden of their plaint was Man Men in general and Man in particular . 
Of course I was not present officially , so to speak . 
Yet I was listening hard all the time , with that respectful consideration one gives to all grown up people's remarks , so long as one knows no better . 
It seemed a serious indictment enough , as they rolled it out . 
And I said as much , with some directness of language . 
That was the end of me , from a society point of view . 
Rudeness to visitors was the unpardonable sin , and in two seconds I had my marching orders , and was sullenly wending my way to the St . 
As I climbed the stair , my thoughts reverted somehow to a game we had been playing that very morning . 
It was the good old game of Rafts , a game that will be played till all the oceans are dry and all the trees in the world are felled and after . 
And this was only because it was her turn to do so , not because she happened to be this or that . 
Even to myself much of the recent raft glamour seemed to have departed as I half mechanically stepped inside and curled myself up in it for a solitary voyage . 
A few minutes of this delightful motion , and one was fairly launched . 
So those women below didn't want us ? Well , there were other women , and other places , that did . 
And this was going to be no scrambling raft affair , but a full blooded voyage of the Man , equipped and purposeful , in search of what was his rightful own . 
A frigate , of course , seemed the natural vehicle for a boy of spirit to set out in . 
And yet there was something rather uppish in commanding a frigate at the very first set off , and little spread was left for the ambition . 
Frigates , too , could always be acquired later by sheer adventure and your real hero generally saved up a square rigged ship for the final achievement and the rapt return . 
No , it was a schooner that I was aboard of a schooner whose masts raked devilishly as the leaping seas hissed along her low black gunwale . 
Many hairbrained youths started out on a mere cutter but I was prudent , and besides I had some inkling of the serious affairs that were ahead . 
I could not wait for that . 
So long as we were in pilotage I stuck manfully to the wheel . 
That was the right sort of cabin that I stepped into , shutting the door behind me with a click . 
Everything was there , and of the best quality , just as if I had spent a whole fortnight knocking about Plymouth and ordering things . 
Clearly , if this cruise came to grief , it would not be for want of equipment . 
I grasped a rifle or two , and hastened on deck . 
The spectacle was indeed magnificent it generally is , with icebergs on both bows , and these were exceptionally enormous icebergs . 
I have rarely enjoyed better shooting than I got during that afternoon's tramp over the icebergs . 
Perhaps I was in specially good form perhaps the bears rose well . 
Anyhow , the bag was a portentous one . 
In later days , on reading of the growing scarcity of Polar bears , my conscience has pricked me but that afternoon I experienced no compunction . 
For icebergs were played out , for the moment , and it was getting to be time for something more tropical . 
Tropical was a mild expression of what was to come , as was shortly proved . 
It was about three bells in the next day's forenoon watch when the look out man first sighted the pirate brigantine . 
I disliked the looks of her from the first , and , after piping all hands to quarters , had the brass carronade on the fore deck crammed with grape to the muzzle . 
This proved a wise precaution . 
The sight of their disconnected limbs aroused my ire to its utmost height , and I let them have the contents of the brass carronade , with ghastly effect . 
Next moment the hulls of the two ships were grinding together , the cold steel flashed from its scabbard , and the death grapple had begun . 
In spite of the deadly work of my grape gorged carronade , our foe still outnumbered us , I reckoned , by three to one . 
Honour forbade my fixing it at a lower figure this was the minimum rate at which one dared to do business with pirates . 
This veiled attempt to share our laurels with us , courteously as it was worded , put me on my mettle . 
and plunged once more into the pleasing carnage . 
The result was not long doubtful . 
And all the time the British man of war admired and applauded in the offing . 
There were ropes of pearls , too , and big stacks of nougat and rubies , and gold watches , and Turkish Delight in tubs . 
But I left these trifles to my crew , and continued the search alone . 
When gentle folk meet , courtesies pass and I will not weary other people with relating all the compliments and counter compliments that we exchanged , all in the most approved manner . 
Occasions like this , when tongues wagged smoothly and speech flowed free , were always especially pleasing to me , who am naturally inclined to be tongue tied with women . 
But at last ceremony was over , and we sat on the table and swung our legs and agreed to be fast friends . 
There was high feasting that night in my cabin . 
This done , I retired into the cabin with the Princess , and locked the door . 
As for the pirate brigantine and the man of war , I don't really know what became of them . 
They had played their part very well , for the time , but I wasn't going to bother to account for them , so I just let them evaporate quietly . 
The islands provided plenty of fresh occupation . 
The islands lay conveniently close together , which necessitated careful steering as we threaded the devious and intricate channels that separated them . 
This is too much the masculine way , whenever there's any real business doing . 
The following day my conscience rose up and accused me . 
This was not what I had come out to do . 
So we upped anchor with the morning tide , and set all sail for San Salvador . 
Of course I had no idea where San Salvador really was . 
I haven't now , for that matter . 
And forthwith there was summoned a Council of War . 
It is a very serious matter , a Council of War . 
We had not held one hitherto , pirates and truck of that sort not calling for such solemn treatment . 
But in an affair that might almost be called international , it seemed well to proceed gravely and by regular steps . 
The bo'sun had taken part in so many cuttings out during his past career that practically he did all the talking , and was the Council of War himself . 
It was to be an affair of boats , he explained . 
But I abandoned the notion at once , recollecting that the heroes of all history had always been noted for their unswerving constancy . 
The French captain was snug in bed when I clambered in through his cabin window and held a naked cutlass to his throat . 
It was a beautiful speech . 
This I gracefully consented to do , and the incident ended . 
But the bo'sun's admirable strategy , and my own reckless gallantry in securing the French captain at the outset , had the fortunate result of keeping down the death rate . 
It was all for the sake of the Princess that I had arranged so comparatively tame a victory . 
For myself , I rather liked a fair amount of blood letting , red hot shot , and flying splinters . 
But when you have girls about the place , they have got to be considered to a certain extent . 
We became sworn friends , and exchanged invitations to come and stay at each other's homes , and really it was quite difficult to induce him to take his leave . 
The worst of this ocean theatre was , it held no proper audience . 
It was hard , of course , to relinquish all the adventures that still lay untouched in these Southern seas . 
The air was thick with invitations and with the smell of civic banquets in a forward stage but I sternly waved all festivities aside . 
The whips cracked and the crowd scattered and cheered as we broke into a gallop for home . 
The noisy bells burst into a farewell peal Yes , that was undoubtedly the usual bell for school room tea . 
And high time too , I thought , as I tumbled out of the bath , which was beginning to feel very hard to the projecting portions of my frame work . 
Man was still catching it , apparently Man was getting it hot . 
THE RELUCTANT DRAGON Footprints in the snow have been unfailing provokers of sentiment ever since snow was first a white wonder in this drab coloured world of ours . 
Footprints in the sand , now , were quite another matter , and we grasped Crusoe's attitude of mind much more easily than Wordsworth's . 
Excitement and mystery , curiosity and suspense these were the only sentiments that tracks , whether in sand or in snow , were able to arouse in us . 
We had awakened early that winter morning , puzzled at first by the added light that filled the room . 
When dinner time came we had to be dragged in by the scruff of our necks . 
It stretched away unbroken on every side of us , this mysterious soft garment under which our familiar world had so suddenly hidden itself . 
Faint imprints showed where a casual bird had alighted , but of other traffic there was next to no sign which made these strange tracks all the more puzzling . 
We came across them first at the corner of the shrubbery , and pored over them long , our hands on our knees . 
Experienced trappers that we knew ourselves to be , it was annoying to be brought up suddenly by a beast we could not at once identify . 
Don't you know ? said Charlotte , rather scornfully . 
Thought you knew all the beasts that ever was . 
This put me on my mettle , and I hastily rattled off a string of animal names embracing both the arctic and the tropic zones , but without much real confidence . 
No , said Charlotte , on consideration they won't any of 'em quite do . 
Did you say a iguanodon ? Might be that , p'raps . 
But that's not British , and we want a real British beast . 
I think it's a dragon ! 'T isn't half big enough , I objected . 
Well , all dragons must be small to begin with , said Charlotte like everything else . 
P'raps this is a little dragon who's got lost . 
A little dragon would be rather nice to have . 
He might scratch and spit , but he couldn't DO anything really . 
We ran the monster across the paddock and along the hedge of the next field , and then he took to the road like any tame civilized tax payer . 
Once inside , I knew where we were . 
This was the garden of my friend the circus man , though I had never approached it before by a lawless gap , from this unfamiliar side . 
And here was the circus man himself , placidly smoking a pipe as he strolled up and down the walks . 
I stepped up to him and asked him politely if he had lately seen a Beast . 
Charlotte says it's a dragon , but she doesn't really know much about beasts . 
The circus man looked round about him slowly . 
I don't THINK , he said , that I've seen a dragon in these parts recently . 
But if I come across one I'll know it belongs to you , and I'll have him taken round to you at once . 
Thank you very much , said Charlotte , but don't TROUBLE about it , please , 'cos p'raps it isn't a dragon after all . 
Oh , no trouble at all , said the circus man , cheerfully . 
I should be only too pleased . 
But of course , as you say , it MAY be a mistake . 
And it's getting dark , and he seems to have got away for the present , whatever he is . 
You'd better come in and have some tea . 
I'm quite alone , and we'll make a roaring fire , and I've got the biggest Book of Beasts you ever saw . 
The striking of six o'clock set the more prudent Charlotte nudging me , and we recalled ourselves with an effort from Beast land , and reluctantly stood up to go . 
Here , I'm coming along with you , said the circus man . 
I want another pipe , and a walk'll do me good . 
You needn't talk to me unless you like . 
Our spirits rose to their wonted level again . 
The way had seemed so long , the outside world so dark and eerie , after the bright warm room and the highly coloured beast book . 
But a walk with a real Man why , that was a treat in itself ! We set off briskly , the Man in the middle . 
Now , then , she said , tell us a story , please , won't you ? The Man sighed heavily and looked about him . 
I knew it , he groaned . 
I KNEW I should have to tell a story . 
Oh , why did I leave my pleasant fireside ? Well , I WILL tell you a story . 
Only let me think a minute . 
So he thought a minute , and then he told us this story . 
They knew that book learning often came in useful at a pinch , in spite of what their neighbours said . 
Of course I was terrible frightened , the shepherd went on yet somehow I couldn't keep away . 
So this very evening , before I come down , I took a cast round by the cave , quietly . 
Why HIM , I'm a telling you ! said the shepherd . 
He was sticking half way out of the cave , and seemed to be enjoying of the cool of the evening in a poetical sort of way . 
He was as big as four cart horses , and all covered with shiny scales deep blue scales at the top of him , shading off to a tender sort o' green below . 
As he breathed , there was that sort of flicker over his nostrils that you see over our chalk roads on a baking windless day in summer . 
He had his chin on his paws , and I should say he was meditating about things . 
Oh , yes , a peaceable sort o' beast enough , and not ramping or carrying on or doing anything but what was quite right and proper . 
Only a dragon ? cried his father . 
Look here , father , you know we've each of us got our line . 
YOU know about sheep , and weather , and things I know about dragons . 
I always said , you know , that that cave up there was a dragon cave . 
I always said it must have belonged to a dragon some time , and ought to belong to a dragon now , if rules count for anything . 
Well , now you tell me it HAS got a dragon , and so THAT'S all right . 
I'm not half as much surprised as when you told me it HADN'T got a dragon . 
Rules always come right if you wait quietly . 
Now , please , just leave this all to me . 
Only , please , don't you go worrying round there without me . 
You don't understand 'em a bit , and they're very sensitive , you know ! He's quite right , father , said the sensible mother . 
As he says , dragons is his line and not ours . 
He's wonderful knowing about book beasts , as every one allows . 
He's got a pleasant sort o' way with him that makes everybody tell him everything . 
The view from that point was a magnificent one . 
A cool breeze played over the surface of the grass and the silver shoulder of a large moon was showing above distant junipers . 
No wonder the dragon seemed in a peaceful and contented mood indeed , as the Boy approached he could hear the beast purring with a happy regularity . 
Well , we live and learn ! he said to himself . 
None of my books ever told me that dragons purred ! Hullo , dragon ! said the Boy , quietly , when he had got up to him . 
The dragon , on hearing the approaching footsteps , made the beginning of a courteous effort to rise . 
But when he saw it was a Boy , he set his eyebrows severely . 
Now don't you hit me , he said or bung stones , or squirt water , or anything . 
I've simply looked in to ask you how you were and all that sort of thing but if I'm in the way I can easily clear out . 
The Boy bit off a stalk of grass and chewed it . 
Going to make a long stay here ? he asked , politely . 
Can't hardly say at present , replied the dragon . 
It seems a nice place enough but I've only been here a short time , and one must look about and reflect and consider before settling down . 
It's rather a serious thing , settling down . 
When WHAT happened , please ? asked the Boy . 
That's just what I don't precisely know , said the dragon . 
I suppose the earth sneezed , or shook itself , or the bottom dropped out of something . 
Anyhow there was a shake and a roar and a general stramash , and I found myself miles away underground and wedged in as tight as tight . 
Well , thank goodness , my wants are few , and at any rate I had peace and quietness and wasn't always being asked to come along and DO something . 
So I scratched and burrowed , and worked this way and that way and at last I came out through this cave here . 
And I like the country , and the view , and the people what I've seen of 'em and on the whole I feel inclined to settle down here . 
What's your mind always occupied about ? asked the Boy . 
That's what I want to know . 
The dragon coloured slightly and looked away . 
Presently he said bashfully Did you ever just for fun try to make up poetry verses , you know ? 'Course I have , said the Boy . 
And some of it's quite good , I feel sure , only there's no one here cares about it . 
Mother's very kind and all that , when I read it to her , and so's father for that matter . 
But somehow they don't seem to Exactly , cried the dragon my own case exactly . 
They don't seem to , and you can't argue with 'em about it . 
I'm awfully pleased to have met you , and I'm hoping the other neighbours will be equally agreeable . 
There was a very nice old gentleman up here only last night , but he didn't seem to want to intrude . 
That was my father , said the boy , and he IS a nice old gentleman , and I'll introduce you some day if you like . 
Can't you two come up here and dine or something to morrow ? asked the dragon eagerly . 
Only , of course , if you've got nothing better to do , he added politely . 
Thanks awfully , said the Boy , but we don't go out anywhere without my mother , and , to tell you the truth , I'm afraid she mightn't quite approve of you . 
You're an enemy of the human race , you see ! Haven't got an enemy in the world , said the dragon , cheerfully . 
Too lazy to make 'em , to begin with . 
When the other people find you out , they'll come after you with spears and swords and all sorts of things . 
Character'll bear the strictest investigation . 
No , I can't stop for sonnets my mother's sitting up . 
Good night ! The Boy found it an easy matter to set the mind of his parents' at ease about his new friend . 
They had always left that branch to him , and they took his word without a murmur . 
The shepherd was formally introduced and many compliments and kind inquiries were exchanged . 
The fact that he was a dragon and they didn't know who he was seemed to count for everything with her . 
What the Boy had feared , however , soon came to pass . 
The most modest and retiring dragon in the world , if he's as big as four cart horses and covered with blue scales , cannot keep altogether out of the public view . 
And so in the village tavern of nights the fact that a real live dragon sat brooding in the cave on the Downs was naturally a subject for talk . 
Though the villagers were extremely frightened , they were rather proud as well . 
It was a distinction to have a dragon of your own , and it was felt to be a feather in the cap of the village . 
Still , all were agreed that this sort of thing couldn't be allowed to go on . 
The dreadful beast must be exterminated , the country side must be freed from this pest , this terror , this destroying scourge . 
The fact that not even a hen roost was the worse for the dragon's arrival wasn't allowed to have anything to do with it . 
He was a dragon , and he couldn't deny it , and if he didn't choose to behave as such that was his own lookout . 
One day the Boy , on walking in to the village , found everything wearing a festal appearance which was not to be accounted for in the calendar . 
The Boy saw a friend of his own age in the crowd and hailed him . 
What's up ? he cried . 
Is it the players , or bears , or a circus , or what ? It's all right , his friend hailed back . 
WHO'S a coming ? demanded the Boy , thrusting into the throng . 
George , of course , replied his friend . 
He's heard tell of our dragon , and he's comin' on purpose to slay the deadly beast , and free us from his horrid yoke . 
Once in the front rank , he breathlessly awaited the arrival . 
Presently from the far away end of the line came the sound of cheering . 
George paced slowly up the street . 
The Boy's heart stood still and he breathed with sobs , the beauty and the grace of the hero were so far beyond anything he had yet seen . 
He drew rein in front of the little inn , and the villagers crowded round with greetings and thanks and voluble statements of their wrongs and grievances and oppressions . 
But the Boy made off up the hill as fast as he could lay his legs to the ground . 
It's all up , dragon ! he shouted as soon as he was within sight of the beast . 
Don't be VIOLENT , Boy , he said without looking round . 
Hope you'll be half as cool when I've got through with my news . 
George who's coming , that's all he rode into the village half an hour ago . 
O deary , deary me , moaned the dragon this is too awful . 
I won't see him , and that's flat . 
I don't want to know the fellow at all . 
I'm sure he's not nice . 
You must tell him to go away at once , please . 
Say he can write if he likes , but I can't give him an interview . 
I'm not seeing anybody at present . 
Now dragon , dragon , said the Boy imploringly , don't be perverse and wrongheaded . 
You've GOT to fight him some time or other , you know , 'cos he's St . 
George and you're the dragon . 
Better get it over , and then we can go on with the sonnets . 
And you ought to consider other people a little , too . 
I've never fought in my life , and I'm not going to begin now , just to give you a Roman holiday . 
In old days I always let the other fellows the EARNEST fellows do all the fighting , and no doubt that's why I have the pleasure of being here now . 
But if you don't fight he'll cut your head off ! gasped the Boy , miserable at the prospect of losing both his fight and his friend . 
Oh , I think not , said the dragon in his lazy way . 
You'll be able to arrange something . 
I've every confidence in you , you're such a MANAGER . 
Just run down , there's a dear chap , and make it all right . 
I leave it entirely to you . 
The Boy made his way back to the village in a state of great despondency . 
George would most undoubtedly cut his head off . 
Arrange things indeed ! he said bitterly to himself . 
The dragon treats the whole affair as if it was an invitation to tea and croquet . 
The villagers were straggling homewards as he passed up the street , all of them in the highest spirits , and gleefully discussing the splendid fight that was in store . 
The Boy pursued his way to the inn , and passed into the principal chamber , where St . 
George now sat alone , musing over the chances of the fight , and the sad stories of rapine and of wrong that had so lately been poured into his sympathetic ears . 
May I come in , St . 
George ? said the Boy politely , as he paused at the door . 
I want to talk to you about this little matter of the dragon , if you're not tired of it by this time . 
Yes , come in , Boy , said the Saint kindly . 
Another tale of misery and wrong , I fear me . 
Is it a kind parent , then , of whom the tyrant has bereft you ? Or some tender sister or brother ? Well , it shall soon be avenged . 
Nothing of the sort , said the Boy . 
There's a misunderstanding somewhere , and I want to put it right . 
The fact is , this is a GOOD dragon . 
George , smiling pleasantly , I quite understand . 
Believe me , I do not in the least regret that he is an adversary worthy of my steel , and no feeble specimen of his noxious tribe . 
But he's NOT a noxious tribe , cried the Boy distressedly . 
And he's been so kind to mother , and mother'd do anything for him . 
And father likes him too , though father doesn't hold with art and poetry much , and always falls asleep when the dragon starts talking about STYLE . 
But the fact is , nobody can help liking him when once they know him . 
He's so engaging and so trustful , and as simple as a child ! Sit down , and draw your chair up , said St . 
I like a fellow who sticks up for his friends , and I'm sure the dragon has his good points , if he's got a friend like you . 
But that's not the question . 
your regard , has got to be speedily exterminated . 
Oh , you've been taking in all the yarns those fellows have been telling you , said the Boy impatiently . 
Why , our villagers are the biggest story tellers in all the country round . 
You're a stranger in these parts , or else you'd have heard it already . 
All they want is a FIGHT . 
They're the most awful beggars for getting up fights it's meat and drink to them . 
Dogs , bulls , dragons anything so long as it's a fight . 
Why , they've got a poor innocent badger in the stable behind here , at this moment . 
They were going to have some fun with him to day , but they're saving him up now till YOUR little affair's over . 
George sadly , resting his cheek on his hand . 
This is an evil world , and sometimes I begin to think that all the wickedness in it is not entirely bottled up inside the dragons . 
George was sorry for what he had said , the Boy looked so genuinely distressed . 
I assure you , St . 
George , he said earnestly , there's nothing of the sort in the cave at all . 
Perhaps I've misjudged the animal . 
But what are we to do ? Here are the dragon and I , almost face to face , each supposed to be thirsting for each other's blood . 
I don't see any way out of it , exactly . 
What do you suggest ? Can't you arrange things , somehow ? That's just what the dragon said , replied the Boy , rather nettled . 
YOU know that as well as I do . 
Well , it's IRREGULAR , said St . 
George , rising , but really it seems about the most sensible thing to do . 
You're taking a lot of trouble on your friend's account , he added , good naturedly , as they passed out through the door together . 
But cheer up ! Perhaps there won't have to be any fight after all . 
Oh , but I hope there will , though ! replied the little fellow , wistfully . 
I've brought a friend to see you , dragon , said the Boy , rather loud . 
The dragon woke up with a start . 
I was just er thinking about things , he said in his simple way . 
Very pleased to make your acquaintance , sir . 
Charming weather we're having ! This is St George , said the Boy , shortly . 
George , let me introduce you to the dragon . 
I may perhaps add that my mother's sitting up . 
So glad to meet you , St . 
George , began the dragon rather nervously , because you've been a great traveller , I hear , and I've always been rather a stay at home . 
But I can show you many antiquities , many interesting features of our country side , if you're stopping here any time I think , said St . 
George , he went on , there's nobody in the world I'd sooner oblige than you and this young gentleman here . 
But the whole thing's nonsense , and conventionality , and popular thick headedness . 
There's absolutely nothing to fight about , from beginning to end . 
And anyhow I'm not going to , so that settles it ! But supposing I make you ? said St . 
You can't , said the dragon , triumphantly . 
I should only go into my cave and retire for a time down the hole I came up . 
You'd soon get heartily sick of sitting outside and waiting for me to come out and fight you . 
George gazed for a while on the fair landscape around them . 
But this would be a beautiful place for a fight , he began again persuasively . 
Not but what it would make a very pretty picture , as you say , he added , wavering a little . 
We seem to be getting rather nearer to BUSINESS , put in the Boy . 
It might be arranged , said St . 
I MUST spear you somewhere , of course , but I'm not bound to hurt you very much . 
There's such a lot of you that there must be a few SPARE places somewhere . 
Here , for instance , just behind your foreleg . 
It couldn't hurt you much , just here ! Now you're tickling , George , said the dragon , coyly . 
No , that place won't do at all . 
Even if it didn't hurt , and I'm sure it would , awfully , it would make me laugh , and that would spoil everything . 
Let's try somewhere else , then , said St . 
Of course I am , said St . 
You leave that to me ! It's just because I've GOT to leave it to you that I'm asking , replied the dragon , rather testily . 
Precisely , said the dragon . 
And then And then there'll be shoutings and speeches and things , continued St . 
And I shall explain that you're converted , and see the error of your ways , and so on . 
Quite so , said the dragon . 
And then ? Oh , and then said St . 
George , why , and then there will be the usual banquet , I suppose . 
Exactly , said the dragon and that's where I come in . 
Look here , he continued , addressing the Boy , I'm bored to death up here , and no one really appreciates me . 
Goodnight ! They had descended the hill and were almost back in the village again , when St . 
George stopped short , KNEW I had forgotten something , he said . 
There ought to be a Princess . 
Terror stricken and chained to a rock , and all that sort of thing . 
Boy , can't you arrange a Princess ? The Boy was in the middle of a tremendous yawn . 
I'm tired to death , he wailed , and I CAN'T arrange a Princess , or anything more , at this time of night . 
The Boy had secured a good front place , well up towards the cave , and was feeling as anxious as a stage manager on a first night . 
The Boy looked narrowly at the cave , but it showed no sign of life or occupation . 
A minute more and St . 
George's red plumes topped the hill , as the Saint rode slowly forth on the great level space which stretched up to the grim mouth of the cave . 
He drew rein and remained motionless . 
The lines of spectators began to give back a little , nervously and even the boys in front stopped pulling hair and cuffing each other , and leaned forward expectant . 
Now then , dragon ! muttered the Boy impatiently , fidgeting where he sat . 
He need not have distressed himself , had he only known . 
A low muttering , mingled with snorts , now made itself heard rising to a bellowing roar that seemed to fill the plain . 
Oh , well done , dragon ! cried the Boy , excitedly . 
Didn't think he had it in him ! he added to himself . 
George lowered his spear , bent his head , dug his heels into his horse's sides , and came thundering over the turf . 
The dragon charged with a roar and a squeal , a great blue whirling combination of coils and snorts and clashing jaws and spikes and fire . 
Missed ! yelled the crowd . 
The dragon sat down and barked viciously , while St . 
George with difficulty pulled his horse round into position . 
End of Round One ! thought the Boy . 
How well they managed it ! But I hope the Saint won't get excited . 
I can trust the dragon all right . 
What a regular play actor the fellow is ! St . 
George had at last prevailed on his horse to stand steady , and was looking round him as he wiped his brow . 
Catching sight of the Boy , he smiled and nodded , and held up three fingers for an instant . 
It seems to be all planned out , said the Boy to himself . 
Round Three is to be the finishing one , evidently . 
Wish it could have lasted a bit longer . 
Whatever's that old fool of a dragon up to now ? The dragon was employing the interval in giving a ramping performance for the benefit of the crowd . 
When you are covered with blue scales , the effect is particularly pleasing and the Boy recollected the dragon's recently expressed wish to become a social success . 
George now gathered up his reins and began to move forward , dropping the point of his spear and settling himself firmly in the saddle . 
Round Two evoked audible evidence of friendly feeling towards the dragon . 
It's been a jolly fight , St . 
George ! he said with a sigh . 
Can't you let it last a bit longer ? Well , I think I'd better not , replied the Saint . 
I'll just finish him off this round . 
He swung himself into the saddle and took his spear from the Boy . 
Now don't you be afraid , he added kindly . 
So the two sparred for an opening , while the spectators maintained a breathless silence . 
George had dismounted , and stood astride of him . 
It all seemed so genuine that the Boy ran in breathlessly , hoping the dear old dragon wasn't really hurt . 
As he approached , the dragon lifted one large eyelid , winked solemnly , and collapsed again . 
He was held fast to earth by the neck , but the Saint had hit him in the spare place agreed upon , and it didn't even seem to tickle . 
Bain't you goin' to cut 'is 'ed orf , master ? asked one of the applauding crowd . 
He had backed the dragon , and naturally felt a trifle sore . 
Well , not TO DAY , I think , replied St . 
You see , that can be done at ANY time . 
There's no hurry at all . 
The time for talking and cheering and betting was past , the hour for action had arrived . 
Then the Saint mounted and led off the procession , the dragon following meekly in the company of the Boy , while the thirsty spectators kept at a respectful interval behind . 
There were great doings when they got down to the village again , and had formed up in front of the inn . 
And they shouldn't be so fond of fights , because next time they might have to do the fighting themselves , which would not be the same thing at all . 
And there was a certain badger in the inn stables which had got to be released at once , and he'd come and see it done himself . 
So they must make friends , and not be prejudiced and go about fancying they knew everything there was to be known , because they didn't , not by a long way . 
And he warned them against the sin of romancing , and making up stories and fancying other people would believe them just because they were plausible and highly coloured . 
Then he sat down , amidst much repentant cheering , and the dragon nudged the Boy in the ribs and whispered that he couldn't have done it better himself . 
Then every one went off to get ready for the banquet . 
St George was happy because there had been a fight and he hadn't had to kill anybody for he didn't really like killing , though he generally had to do it . 
The dragon was happy because there had been a fight , and so far from being hurt in it he had won popularity and a sure footing in society . 
The Boy was happy because there had been a fight , and in spite of it all his two friends were on the best of terms . 
And all the others were happy because there had been a fight , and well , they didn't require any other reasons for their happiness . 
But they didn't mind that , being good fellows , and the dragon was not in the least proud or forgetful . 
Jolly night it's been ! he murmured . 
Jolly stars ! Jolly little place this ! Think I shall just stop here . 
Don't feel like climbing up any beastly hill . 
Boy's promised to see me home . 
Boy had better do it then ! No responsibility on my part . 
Responsibility all Boy's ! And his chin sank on his broad chest and he slumbered peacefully . 
Oh , GET up , dragon , cried the Boy , piteously . 
The door behind them opened , a stream of light illumined the road , and St . 
George , who had come out for a stroll in the cool night air , caught sight of the two figures sitting there the great motionless dragon and the tearful little Boy . 
What's the matter , Boy ? he inquired kindly , stepping to his side . 
Oh , it's this great lumbering PIG of a dragon ! sobbed the Boy . 
Now don't take on , said St . 
I'll stand by you , and we'll BOTH see him home . 
Wake up , dragon ! he said sharply , shaking the beast by the elbow . 
The dragon looked up sleepily . 
What a night , George ! he murmured what a Now look here , dragon , said the Saint , firmly . 
Poor little chap , only fancy his being up at this hour ! It's a shame , that's what it is , and I don't think , St . 
George , you've been very considerate but come along at once , and don't let us have any more arguing or shilly shallying . 
The lights in the little village began to go out but there were stars , and a late moon , as they climbed to the Downs together . 
And , as they turned the last corner and disappeared from view , snatches of an old song were borne back on the night breeze . 
Oh , but wait a minute ! cried Charlotte . 
I want to know a heap of things . 
Did the dragon really settle down ? And did There isn't any more of that story , said the man , kindly but firmly . 
At least , not to night . 
Now be off ! Good bye ! Wonder if it's all true ? said Charlotte , as we hurried up the path . 
Sounded dreadfully like nonsense , in parts ! P'raps its true for all that , I replied encouragingly . 
It was the day for choir practice , and carol time was at hand , and a belated member was passing homewards down the road , singing as he went Then St . 
George ee made rev'rence in the stable so dim , Oo vanquished the dragon so fearful and grim . 
So o grim and so o fierce that now may we say All peaceful is our wakin' on Chri istmas Day ! The singer receded , the carol died away . 
A DEPARTURE It is a very fine thing to be a real Prince . 
There are points about a Pirate Chief , and to succeed to the Captaincy of a Robber Band is a truly magnificent thing . 
But to be an Heir has also about it something extremely captivating . 
In the case of eldest sons , this problem has a way of solving itself . 
Never trust people who pretend that they have no joy in their new clothes . 
Let not our souls be wrung , however , at contemplation of the luckless urchin cut off by parental penury from the rapture of new clothes . 
But , putting clothes aside , there are other matters in which this reversed heirship comes into play . 
Take the case of Toys . 
borrow them and be happy on the floor as of old , without the reproach of being a habitual baby toy caresser . 
Also one can pretend it's being done to amuse the younger ones . 
None of us , therefore , grumbled when in the natural course of things the nominal ownership of the toys slipped down to Harold , and from him in turn devolved upon Charlotte . 
Each fresh grammar or musical instrument , each new historical period or quaint arithmetical rule , is impressed on one by some painful physical prelude . 
This was not the first mine he had exploded under our bows . 
sitting up in her little white cot , surrounded by the toys of the nice , kind , rich children . 
Naturally enough , perhaps , we others received no official intimation of this grave cession of territory . 
We were not supposed to be interested . 
Harold had long ago been promoted to a knife a recognized , birthday knife . 
Nothwithstanding , we all felt indignant , betrayed , and sullen to the verge of mutiny . 
As we gazed at untenanted shelves and empty , hatefully tidy corners , perhaps for the first time for long we began to do them a tardy justice . 
There was old Leotard , for instance . 
His loosejointed limbs were cardboard , cardboard his slender trunk and his hands eternally grasped the bar of a trapeze . 
Hardly versatile enough , perhaps , this Leotard unsympathetic , not a companion for all hours nor would you have chosen him to take to bed with you . 
And yet , within his own limits , how fresh , how engrossing , how resourceful and inventive ! Well , he was gone , it seemed merely gone . 
Never specially cherished while he tarried with us , he had yet contrived to build himself a particular niche of his own . 
The immediate point was , not that the world would continue to go round as of old , but that Leotard wouldn't . 
The sliding roof had rarely been known to close entirely . 
I think that none of us ever really thought very much of Ham and Shem and Japhet . 
They were only there because they were in the story , but nobody really wanted them . 
And now that their corners were unfilled , their chairs unoccupied well , my eyes were opened and I wanted 'em back ! However , it was no business of mine . 
If grievances were the question , I hadn't a leg to stand upon . 
But I wondered how the others were taking it . 
The edict hit them more severely . 
They should have my moral countenance at any rate , if not more , in any protest or countermine they might be planning . 
And , indeed , something seemed possible , from the dogged , sullen air with which the two of them had trotted off in the direction of the raspberry canes . 
Certain spots always had their insensible attraction for certain moods . 
In love , one sought the orchard . 
Weary of discipline , sick of convention , impassioned for the road , the mining camp , the land across the border , one made for the big meadow . 
Mutinous , sulky , charged with plots and conspiracies , one always got behind the shelter of the raspberry canes . 
You can come too if you like , said Harold , in a subdued sort of way , as soon as he was aware that I was sitting up in bed watching him . 
We didn't think you'd care , 'cos you've got to catapults . 
Charlotte and Harold had kept out of my way , as well as out of everybody else's , in a purposeful manner that ought to have bred suspicion . 
I had dozed off , however , and Harold was out and on his feet , poking under the bed for his shoes , when I sat up and grimly regarded him . 
Just as he said I could come if I liked , Charlotte slipped in , her face rigid and set . 
And then it was borne in upon me that I was not on in this scene . 
These youngsters had planned it all out , the piece was their own , and the mounting , and the cast . 
My sceptre had fallen , my rule had ceased . 
Humbly , almost timidly , I followed without a protest in the wake of these two remorseless , purposeful young persons , who were marching straight for the schoolroom . 
A dreamy spectator , I stood idly by while Harold propped up the lid and the two plunged in their arms and probed and felt and grappled . 
Here's Rosa , said Harold , suddenly . 
I know the feel of her hair . 
Will you have Rosa out ? Oh , give me Rosa ! cried Charlotte with a sort of gasp . 
Here's something with sharp corners , said Harold , presently . 
Must be Leotard , I think . 
Oh , yes , we can't save Leotard , assented Charlotte , limply . 
Poor old Leotard ! I said nothing , of course I was not on in this piece . 
Now I've got to the Noah's Ark , panted Harold , still groping blindly . 
Try and shove the lid back a bit , said Charlotte , and pull out a dove or a zebra or a giraffe if there's one handy . 
Harold toiled on with grunts and contortions , and presently produced in triumph a small grey elephant and a large beetle with a red stomach . 
They're jammed in too tight , he complained . 
Can't get any more out . 
But as I came up I'm sure I felt Potiphar ! And down he dived again . 
Potiphar was a finely modelled bull with a suede skin , rough and comfortable and warm in bed . 
He was my own special joy and pride , and I thrilled with honest emotion when Potiphar emerged to light once more , stout necked and stalwart as ever . 
That'll have to do , said Charlotte , getting up . 
We dursn't take any more , 'cos we'll be found out if we do . 
Make the box all right , and bring 'em along . 
A few seconds later and we were hurrying silently in single file along the dark edge of the lawn . 
The other two , doubtless , hurrying forward full of their mission , noted little of all this . 
It was a tiny grave and a shallow one , to hold so very much . 
The earth was shovelled in and stamped down , and I was glad that no orisons were said and no speechifying took place . 
The whole thing was natural and right and self explanatory , and needed no justifying or interpreting to our audience of stars and flowers . 
The connexion was not entirely broken now one link remained between us and them . 
