The Mystery of Edwin Drood by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
It is so , for cymbals clash , and the Sultan goes by to his palace in long procession . 
Ten thousand scimitars flash in the sunlight , and thrice ten thousand dancing girls strew flowers . 
Then , follow white elephants caparisoned in countless gorgeous colours , and infinite in number and attendants . 
Still the Cathedral Tower rises in the background , where it cannot be , and still no writhing figure is on the grim spike . 
Shaking from head to foot , the man whose scattered consciousness has thus fantastically pieced itself together , at length rises , supports his trembling frame upon his arms , and looks around . 
He is in the meanest and closest of small rooms . 
Through the ragged window curtain , the light of early day steals in from a miserable court . 
He lies , dressed , across a large unseemly bed , upon a bedstead that has indeed given way under the weight upon it . 
Lying , also dressed and also across the bed , not longwise , are a Chinaman , a Lascar , and a haggard woman . 
The two first are in a sleep or stupor the last is blowing at a kind of pipe , to kindle it . 
'Another ? says this woman , in a querulous , rattling whisper . 
'Have another ? He looks about him , with his hand to his forehead . 
'Ye've smoked as many as five since ye come in at midnight , the woman goes on , as she chronically complains . 
'Poor me , poor me , my head is so bad . 
Them two come in after ye . 
'O me , O me , my lungs is weak , my lungs is bad ! It's nearly ready for ye , deary . 
Ah , my poor nerves ! I got Heavens hard drunk for sixteen year afore I took to this but this don't hurt me , not to speak of . 
And it takes away the hunger as well as wittles , deary . 
She hands him the nearly emptied pipe , and sinks back , turning over on her face . 
He rises unsteadily from the bed , lays the pipe upon the hearth stone , draws back the ragged curtain , and looks with repugnance at his three companions . 
He notices that the woman has opium smoked herself into a strange likeness of the Chinaman . 
His form of cheek , eye , and temple , and his colour , are repeated in her . 
Said Chinaman convulsively wrestles with one of his many Gods or Devils , perhaps , and snarls horribly . 
The Lascar laughs and dribbles at the mouth . 
'What visions can SHE have ? the waking man muses , as he turns her face towards him , and stands looking down at it . 
Then he comes back , pounces on the Chinaman , and seizing him with both hands by the throat , turns him violently on the bed . 
The Chinaman clutches the aggressive hands , resists , gasps , and protests . 
'What do you say ? A watchful pause . 
'Unintelligible ! Slowly loosening his grasp as he listens to the incoherent jargon with an attentive frown , he turns to the Lascar and fairly drags him forth upon the floor . 
As he falls , the Lascar starts into a half risen attitude , glares with his eyes , lashes about him fiercely with his arms , and draws a phantom knife . 
There has been chattering and clattering enough between them , but to no purpose . 
When any distinct word has been flung into the air , it has had no sense or sequence . 
Wherefore 'unintelligible ! is again the comment of the watcher , made with some reassured nodding of his head , and a gloomy smile . 
That same afternoon , the massive gray square tower of an old Cathedral rises before the sight of a jaded traveller . 
The bells are going for daily vesper service , and he must needs attend it , one would say , from his haste to reach the open Cathedral door . 
Not only is the day waning , but the year . 
The low sun is fiery and yet cold behind the monastery ruin , and the Virginia creeper on the Cathedral wall has showered half its deep red leaves down on the pavement . 
Their fallen leaves lie strewn thickly about . 
Jasper was that , Tope ? 'Yes , Mr. Dean . 
I have stayed for him , your Reverence . 
He has been took a little poorly . 
Mr. Tope , Chief Verger and Showman , and accustomed to be high with excursion parties , declines with a silent loftiness to perceive that any suggestion has been tendered to him . 
Poorly , Tope ? 'Why , sir , Mr. Jasper was that breathed 'I wouldn't say That breathed , Tope , Mr. Crisparkle interposes with the same touch as before . 
'Not English to the Dean . 
condescendingly remarks , 'would be preferable . 
However , a little time and a little water brought him out of his DAZE . 
Mr. Tope repeats the word and its emphasis , with the air of saying 'As I HAVE made a success , I'll make it again . 
'And Mr. Jasper has gone home quite himself , has he ? asked the Dean . 
'Your Reverence , he has gone home quite himself . 
They all three look towards an old stone gatehouse crossing the Close , with an arched thoroughfare passing beneath it . 
Through its latticed window , a fire shines out upon the fast darkening scene , involving in shadow the pendent masses of ivy and creeper covering the building's front . 
'Is Mr. Jasper's nephew with him ? the Dean asks . 
'No , sir , replied the Verger , 'but expected . 
There's his own solitary shadow betwixt his two windows the one looking this way , and the one looking down into the High Street drawing his own curtains now . 
'Well , well , says the Dean , with a sprightly air of breaking up the little conference , 'I hope Mr. Jasper's heart may not be too much set upon his nephew . 
Our affections , however laudable , in this transitory world , should never master us we should guide them , guide them . 
I find I am not disagreeably reminded of my dinner , by hearing my dinner bell . 
Perhaps , Mr. Crisparkle , you will , before going home , look in on Jasper ? 'Certainly , Mr. Dean . 
And tell him that you had the kindness to desire to know how he was ? 'Ay do so , do so . 
Wished to know how he was . 
Wished to know how he was . 
to his present Christian beat betakes himself to the gatehouse , on his way home to his early tea . 
'Sorry to hear from Tope that you have not been well , Jasper . 
'O , it was nothing , nothing ! 'You look a little worn . 
'Do I ? O , I don't think so . 
What is better , I don't feel so . 
Tope has made too much of it , I suspect . 
It's his trade to make the most of everything appertaining to the Cathedral , you know . 
'I'm glad to hear that you expect young Drood . 
'I expect the dear fellow every moment . 
'Ah ! He will do you more good than a doctor , Jasper . 
'More good than a dozen doctors . 
For I love him dearly , and I don't love doctors , or doctors' stuff . 
Mr. Jasper is a dark man of some six and twenty , with thick , lustrous , well arranged black hair and whiskers . 
He looks older than he is , as dark men often do . 
His voice is deep and good , his face and figure are good , his manner is a little sombre . 
His room is a little sombre , and may have had its influence in forming his manner . 
It is mostly in shadow . 
'We shall miss you , Jasper , at the Alternate Musical Wednesdays to night but no doubt you are best at home . 
Sounds of recognition and greeting pass between the Reverend Septimus and somebody else , at the stair foot . 
Your feet are not wet ? Pull your boots off . 
Do pull your boots off . 
'My dear Jack , I am as dry as a bone . 
Don't moddley coddley , there's a good fellow . 
I like anything better than being moddley coddleyed . 
And whenever it is so addressed , it is never , on this occasion or on any other , dividedly addressed it is always concentrated . 
'Now I am right , and now I'll take my corner , Jack . 
'What a jolly old Jack it is ! cries the young fellow , with a clap of his hands . 
'Look here , Jack tell me whose birthday is it ? 'Not yours , I know , Mr. Jasper answers , pausing to consider . 
'Pussy's , Jack ! We must drink Many happy returns to her . 
Come , uncle take your dutiful and sharp set nephew in to dinner . 
lays a hand on Jasper's shoulder , Jasper cordially and gaily lays a hand on HIS shoulder , and so Marseillaise wise they go in to dinner . 
'And , Lord ! here's Mrs. Tope ! cries the boy . 
'Lovelier than ever ! 'Never you mind me , Master Edwin , retorts the Verger's wife 'I can take care of myself . 
Give me a kiss because it's Pussy's birthday . 
'I'd Pussy you , young man , if I was Pussy , as you call her , Mrs. Tope blushingly retorts , after being saluted . 
'Your uncle's too much wrapt up in you , that's where it is . 
He makes so much of you , that it's my opinion you think you've only to call your Pussys by the dozen , to make 'em come . 
For what we are going to receive His holy name be praised ! 'Done like the Dean ! Witness , Edwin Drood ! Please to carve , Jack , for I can't . 
This sally ushers in the dinner . 
Little to the present purpose , or to any purpose , is said , while it is in course of being disposed of . 
At length the cloth is drawn , and a dish of walnuts and a decanter of rich coloured sherry are placed upon the table . 
'Uncles as a rule , Ned , are so much older than their nephews , is the reply , 'that I have that feeling instinctively . 
Halloa , Jack ! Don't drink . 
'Why not ? 'Asks why not , on Pussy's birthday , and no Happy returns proposed ! Pussy , Jack , and many of 'em ! Happy returns , I mean . 
Laying an affectionate and laughing touch on the boy's extended hand , as if it were at once his giddy head and his light heart , Mr. Jasper drinks the toast in silence . 
'Hip , hip , hip , and nine times nine , and one to finish with , and all that , understood . 
Hooray , hooray , hooray ! And now , Jack , let's have a little talk about Pussy . 
Two pairs of nut crackers ? Pass me one , and take the other . 
'How's Pussy getting on Jack ? 'With her music ? Fairly . 
'What a dreadfully conscientious fellow you are , Jack ! But I know , Lord bless you ! Inattentive , isn't she ? 'She can learn anything , if she will . 
'IF she will ! Egad , that's it . 
But if she won't ? Crack ! on Mr. Jasper's part . 
'How's she looking , Jack ? Mr. Jasper's concentrated face again includes the portrait as he returns 'Very like your sketch indeed . 
But I ought to have caught that expression pretty well , for I have seen it often enough . 
Crack ! on Edwin Drood's part . 
Crack ! on Mr. Jasper's part . 
'In point of fact , the former resumes , after some silent dipping among his fragments of walnut with an air of pique , 'I see it whenever I go to see Pussy . 
If I don't find it on her face , I leave it there . 
You know I do , Miss Scornful Pert . 
Booh ! With a twirl of the nut crackers at the portrait . 
Crack ! crack ! crack . 
Slowly , on Mr. Jasper's part . 
Sharply on the part of Edwin Drood . 
'But you have not got to choose . 
'That's what I complain of . 
My dead and gone father and Pussy's dead and gone father must needs marry us together by anticipation . 
'Tut , tut ? Yes , Jack , it's all very well for YOU . 
YOU can take it easily . 
YOUR life is not laid down to scale , and lined and dotted out for you , like a surveyor's plan . 
YOU have no uncomfortable suspicion that you are forced upon anybody , nor has anybody an uncomfortable suspicion that she is forced upon you , or that you are forced upon her . 
YOU can choose for yourself . 
Life , for YOU , is a plum with the natural bloom on it hasn't been over carefully wiped off for YOU 'Don't stop , dear fellow . 
Mr. Jasper , with a forced smile , stretches out his right hand , as if at once to disarm apprehension and gain time to get better . 
After a while he says faintly 'I have been taking opium for a pain an agony that sometimes overcomes me . 
The effects of the medicine steal over me like a blight or a cloud , and pass . 
You see them in the act of passing they will be gone directly . 
They will go all the sooner . 
With a scared face the younger man complies by casting his eyes downward at the ashes on the hearth . 
On his so subsiding in his chair , his nephew gently and assiduously tends him while he quite recovers . 
'Upon my life , Jack , I did think so . 
what a quiet life mine is . 
No whirl and uproar around me , no distracting commerce or calculation , no risk , no change of place , myself devoted to the art I pursue , my business my pleasure . 
'I really was going to say something of the kind , Jack but you see , you , speaking of yourself , almost necessarily leave out much that I should have put in . 
'Yes I saw what you were tending to . 
The cramped monotony of my existence grinds me away by the grain . 
How does our service sound to you ? 'Beautiful ! Quite celestial ! 'It often sounds to me quite devilish . 
I am so weary of it . 
The echoes of my own voice among the arches seem to mock me with my daily drudging round . 
No wretched monk who droned his life away in that gloomy place , before me , can have been more tired of it than I am . 
to carving demons out of the stalls and seats and desks . 
'I know you thought so . 
'Well , I suppose they do , says Edwin , meditating aloud . 
'When did she tell you that ? 'The last time I was here . 
'How did she phrase it ? 'O , she only said that she had become your pupil , and that you were made for your vocation . 
The younger man glances at the portrait . 
The elder sees it in him . 
'Anyhow , my dear Ned , Jasper resumes , as he shakes his head with a grave cheerfulness , 'I must subdue myself to my vocation which is much the same thing outwardly . 
It's too late to find another now . 
This is a confidence between us . 
'It shall be sacredly preserved , Jack . 
'I have reposed it in you , because 'I feel it , I assure you . 
Because we are fast friends , and because you love and trust me , as I love and trust you . 
In the act of having his hands released , and of moving a step back , Edwin pauses for an instant to consider the application of these last words . 
But I needn't say I am young and perhaps I shall not grow worse as I grow older . 
At all events , I hope I have something impressible within me , which feels deeply feels the disinterestedness of your painfully laying your inner self bare , as a warning to me . 
Mr. Jasper's steadiness of face and figure becomes so marvellous that his breathing seems to have stopped . 
'I couldn't fail to notice , Jack , that it cost you a great effort , and that you were very much moved , and very unlike your usual self . 
Of course I knew that you were extremely fond of me , but I really was not prepared for your , as I may say , sacrificing yourself to me in that way . 
Mr. Jasper , becoming a breathing man again without the smallest stage of transition between the two extreme states , lifts his shoulders , laughs , and waves his right arm . 
'No don't put the sentiment away , Jack please don't for I am very much in earnest . 
I have no doubt that that unhealthy state of mind which you have so powerfully described is attended with some real suffering , and is hard to bear . 
But let me reassure you , Jack , as to the chances of its overcoming me . 
I don't think I am in the way of it . 
In some few months less than another year , you know , I shall carry Pussy off from school as Mrs. Edwin Drood . 
I shall then go engineering into the East , and Pussy with me . 
, my wife shall dance , and I will sing , so merrily pass the day . 
He remains in that attitude after they , are spoken , as if in a kind of fascination attendant on his strong interest in the youthful spirit that he loves so well . 
Then he says with a quiet smile 'You won't be warned , then ? 'No , Jack . 
'You can't be warned , then ? 'No , Jack , not by you . 
Besides that I don't really consider myself in danger , I don't like your putting yourself in that position . 
'Shall we go and walk in the churchyard ? 'By all means . 
Rather poetical , Jack ? Mr. Jasper , still in the same attitude , murmurs Nothing half so sweet in life , Ned ! 'Here's the parcel in my greatcoat pocket . 
They must be presented to night , or the poetry is gone . 
It's against regulations for me to call at night , but not to leave a packet . 
I am ready , Jack ! Mr. Jasper dissolves his attitude , and they go out together . 
CHAPTER III THE NUNS' HOUSE FOR sufficient reasons , which this narrative will itself unfold as it advances , a fictitious name must be bestowed upon the old Cathedral town . 
Let it stand in these pages as Cloisterham . 
An ancient city , Cloisterham , and no meet dwelling place for any one with hankerings after the noisy world . 
A queer moral to derive from antiquity , yet older than any traceable antiquity . 
All things in it are of the past . 
In the midst of Cloisterham stands the Nuns' House a venerable brick edifice , whose present appellation is doubtless derived from the legend of its conventual uses . 
On the trim gate enclosing its old courtyard is a resplendent brass plate flashing forth the legend 'Seminary for Young Ladies . 
, but constitute no item in Miss Twinkleton's half yearly accounts . 
They are neither of Miss Twinkleton's inclusive regulars , nor of her extras . 
a quarter has no pieces in her list of recitals bearing on such unprofitable questions . 
, so Miss Twinkleton has two distinct and separate phases of being . 
revealed a homage of the heart , whereof Miss Twinkleton , in her scholastic state of existence , is as ignorant as a granite pillar . 
Perhaps this is the reason why it is an article of faith with the servants , handed down from race to race , that the departed Tisher was a hairdresser . 
The pet pupil of the Nuns' House is Miss Rosa Bud , of course called Rosebud wonderfully pretty , wonderfully childish , wonderfully whimsical . 
On the afternoon of the day next after the dinner of two at the gatehouse , the bell is rung with the usual fluttering results . 
Edwin Drood to see Miss Rosa . 
This is the announcement of the parlour maid in chief . 
Miss Twinkleton , with an exemplary air of melancholy on her , turns to the sacrifice , and says , 'You may go down , my dear . 
Miss Bud goes down , followed by all eyes . 
Mr. Edwin Drood is waiting in Miss Twinkleton's own parlour a dainty room , with nothing more directly scholastic in it than a terrestrial and a celestial globe . 
'O ! IT IS so ridiculous ! says the apparition , stopping and shrinking . 
'Don't , Eddy ! 'Don't what , Rosa ? 'Don't come any nearer , please . 
'What is absurd , Rosa ? 'The whole thing is . 
'You give me an affectionate reception , Pussy , I must say . 
'Well , I will in a minute , Eddy , but I can't just yet . 
'I am unable to reply that I am much the better for seeing you , Pussy , inasmuch as I see nothing of you . 
'Shall I go ? 'No you needn't go just yet , Eddy . 
The girls would all be asking questions why you went . 
There ! I'm sure that's nice . 
No , I can't kiss you , because I've got an acidulated drop in my mouth . 
'Are you at all glad to see me , Pussy ? 'O , yes , I'm dreadfully glad . 
On the present occasion Miss Twinkleton , gracefully gliding in and out , says in passing 'How do you do , Mr. Drood ? Very glad indeed to have the pleasure . 
Thank you ! 'I got the gloves last evening , Eddy , and I like them very much . 
'Well , that's something , the affianced replies , half grumbling . 
'The smallest encouragement thankfully received . 
And how did you pass your birthday , Pussy ? 'Delightfully ! Everybody gave me a present . 
And we had a feast . 
And we had a ball at night . 
'A feast and a ball , eh ? These occasions seem to go off tolerably well without me , Pussy . 
'De lightfully ! cries Rosa , in a quite spontaneous manner , and without the least pretence of reserve . 
'Hah ! And what was the feast ? 'Tarts , oranges , jellies , and shrimps . 
'Any partners at the ball ? 'We danced with one another , of course , sir . 
But some of the girls made game to be their brothers . 
It WAS so droll ! 'Did anybody make game to be 'To be you ? O dear yes ! cries Rosa , laughing with great enjoyment . 
'That was the first thing done . 
'I hope she did it pretty well , says Edwin rather doubtfully . 
'O , it was excellent ! I wouldn't dance with you , you know . 
Edwin scarcely seems to see the force of this begs to know if he may take the liberty to ask why ? 'Because I was so tired of you , returns Rosa . 
But she quickly adds , and pleadingly too , seeing displeasure in his face 'Dear Eddy , you were just as tired of me , you know . 
'Did I say so , Rosa ? 'Say so ! Do you ever say so ? No , you only showed it . 
O , she did it so well ! cries Rosa , in a sudden ecstasy with her counterfeit betrothed . 
'It strikes me that she must be a devilish impudent girl , says Edwin Drood . 
'And so , Pussy , you have passed your last birthday in this old house . 
'Ah , yes ! Rosa clasps her hands , looks down with a sigh , and shakes her head . 
'You seem to be sorry , Rosa . 
'I am sorry for the poor old place . 
Somehow , I feel as if it would miss me , when I am gone so far away , so young . 
'Perhaps we had better stop short , Rosa ? She looks up at him with a swift bright look next moment shakes her head , sighs , and looks down again . 
'O , yes , Eddy let us go for a walk ! And I tell you what we'll do . 
You shall pretend that you are engaged to somebody else , and I'll pretend that I am not engaged to anybody , and then we shan't quarrel . 
'Do you think that will prevent our falling out , Rosa ? 'I know it will . 
I trust I disturb no one but there WAS a paper knife O , thank you , I am sure ! and disappears with her prize . 
'One other thing you must do , Eddy , to oblige me , says Rosebud . 
'The moment we get into the street , you must put me outside , and keep close to the house yourself squeeze and graze yourself against it . 
'By all means , Rosa , if you wish it . 
Might I ask why ? 'O ! because I don't want the girls to see you . 
'It's a fine day but would you like me to carry an umbrella up ? 'Don't be foolish , sir . 
You haven't got polished leather boots on , pouting , with one shoulder raised . 
'Perhaps that might escape the notice of the girls , even if they did see me , remarks Edwin , looking down at his boots with a sudden distaste for them . 
'Nothing escapes their notice , sir . 
And then I know what would happen . 
that they never will on any account engage themselves to lovers without polished leather boots . 
'Which way shall we take , Rosa ? Rosa replies 'I want to go to the Lumps of Delight shop . 
'To the ? 'A Turkish sweetmeat , sir . 
But O ! I forgot what we are to pretend . 
No , you needn't know anything about them never mind . 
'Now , be a good tempered Eddy , and pretend . 
And so you are engaged ? 'And so I am engaged . 
'Is she nice ? 'Charming . 
'Tall ? 'Immensely tall ! Rosa being short . 
'Must be gawky , I should think , is Rosa's quiet commentary . 
'I beg your pardon not at all , contradiction rising in him . 
'What is termed a fine woman a splendid woman . 
'Big nose , no doubt , is the quiet commentary again . 
'Long pale nose , with a red knob in the middle . 
I know the sort of nose , says Rosa , with a satisfied nod , and tranquilly enjoying the Lumps . 
'You DON'T know the sort of nose , Rosa , with some warmth 'because it's nothing of the kind . 
'Not a pale nose , Eddy ? 'No . 
'A red nose ? O ! I don't like red noses . 
However to be sure she can always powder it . 
'She would scorn to powder it , says Edwin , becoming heated . 
'Would she ? What a stupid thing she must be ! Is she stupid in everything ? 'No in nothing . 
She takes a sensible interest in triumphs of engineering skill especially when they are to change the whole condition of an undeveloped country . 
'Lor ! says Rosa , shrugging her shoulders , with a little laugh of wonder . 
'But don't she hate Arabs , and Turks , and Fellahs , and people ? 'Certainly not . 
All the girls say Serve him right , and hope it hurt him , and wish he had been quite choked . 
'Well ! says Edwin , after a lengthy silence . 
We can't get on , Rosa . 
Rosa tosses her head , and says she don't want to get on . 
'That's a pretty sentiment , Rosa , considering . 
'Considering what ? 'If I say what , you'll go wrong again . 
'YOU'LL go wrong , you mean , Eddy . 
'Ungenerous ! I like that ! 'Then I DON'T like that , and so I tell you plainly , Rosa pouts . 
'Now , Rosa , I put it to you . 
Who disparaged my profession , my destination 'You are not going to be buried in the Pyramids , I hope ? she interrupts , arching her delicate eyebrows . 
'You never said you were . 
If you are , why haven't you mentioned it to me ? I can't find out your plans by instinct . 
'Now , Rosa , you know very well what I mean , my dear . 
'Somehow or other , I never can come right in these discussions , says Edwin , sighing and becoming resigned . 
We have not had a very happy walk , have we ? 'A happy walk ? A detestably unhappy walk , sir . 
If I go up stairs the moment I get in and cry till I can't take my dancing lesson , you are responsible , mind ! 'Let us be friends , Rosa . 
I am a young little thing , Eddy , to have an old heartache but I really , really have , sometimes . 
I know you have one yourself too often . 
We should both of us have done better , if What is to be had been left What might have been . 
I am quite a little serious thing now , and not teasing you . 
'One clear word of understanding , Pussy dear . 
I am not clever out of my own line now I come to think of it , I don't know that I am particularly clever in it but I want to do right . 
As they sit listening to the solemn swell , the confidence of last night rises in young Edwin Drood's mind , and he thinks how unlike this music is to that discordance . 
'I fancy I can distinguish Jack's voice , is his remark in a low tone in connection with the train of thought . 
'Take me back at once , please , urges his Affianced , quickly laying her light hand upon his wrist . 
'They will all be coming out directly let us get away . 
They go arm in arm now , gravely and deliberately enough , along the old High street , to the Nuns' House . 
At the gate , the street being within sight empty , Edwin bends down his face to Rosebud's . 
She remonstrates , laughing , and is a childish schoolgirl again . 
'Eddy , no ! I'm too sticky to be kissed . 
But give me your hand , and I'll blow a kiss into that . 
Mr. Sapsea is very proud of this , and of his voice , and of his style . 
tried the experiment of slightly intoning in his pulpit , to make himself more like what he takes to be the genuine ecclesiastical article . 
Mr. Sapsea has many admirers indeed , the proposition is carried by a large local majority , even including non believers in his wisdom , that he is a credit to Cloisterham . 
Over the doorway is a wooden effigy , about half life size , representing Mr. Sapsea's father , in a curly wig and toga , in the act of selling . 
The chastity of the idea , and the natural appearance of the little finger , hammer , and pulpit , have been much admired . 
Mr. Sapsea sits in his dull ground floor sitting room , giving first on his paved back yard and then on his railed off garden . 
Characteristically , because he would uphold himself against mankind , his weather glass against weather , and his clock against time . 
By Mr. Sapsea's side on the table are a writing desk and writing materials . 
There are three clean wineglasses in a tray on the table . 
His serving maid entering , and announcing 'Mr . 
Jasper is come , sir , Mr. Sapsea waves 'Admit him , and draws two wineglasses from the rank , as being claimed . 
'Glad to see you , sir . 
I congratulate myself on having the honour of receiving you here for the first time . 
Mr. Sapsea does the honours of his house in this wise . 
The honour is mine and the self congratulation is mine . 
'You are pleased to say so , sir . 
But I do assure you that it is a satisfaction to me to receive you in my humble home . 
And that is what I would not say to everybody . 
'I have for some time desired to know you , Mr. Sapsea . 
'And I , sir , have long known you by reputation as a man of taste . 
Let me fill your glass . 
'Well , sir , is the chuckling reply , 'I think I know something of it something of it . 
'Your reputation for that knowledge has always interested and surprised me , and made me wish to know you . 
For Cloisterham is a little place . 
Cooped up in it myself , I know nothing beyond it , and feel it to be a very little place . 
'If I have not gone to foreign countries , young man , foreign countries have come to me . 
They have come to me in the way of business , and I have improved upon my opportunities . 
Put it that I take an inventory , or make a catalogue . 
I see a French clock . 
It is the same with Japan , with Egypt , and with bamboo and sandalwood from the East Indies I put my finger on them all . 
We were to speak of the late Mrs. Sapsea . 
Mr. Sapsea fills both glasses , and takes the decanter into safe keeping again . 
Mr. Jasper , in the act of yawning behind his wineglass , puts down that screen and calls up a look of interest . 
It is a little impaired in its expressiveness by his having a shut up gape still to dispose of , with watering eyes . 
Because , as I say , it is not good for man to be alone . 
Mr. Jasper appears to commit this original idea to memory . 
The world did have it that she showed a passion for attending my sales , when they took place on half holidays , or in vacation time . 
The world did put it about , that she admired my style . 
The world did notice that as time flowed by , my style became traceable in the dictation exercises of Miss Brobity's pupils . 
Young man , a whisper even sprang up in obscure malignity , that one ignorant and besotted Churl so committed himself as to object to it by name . 
But I do not believe this . 
Not in the least likely . 
Mr. Sapsea , in a grandiloquent state of absence of mind , seems to refill his visitor's glass , which is full already and does really refill his own , which is empty . 
'Miss Brobity's Being , young man , was deeply imbued with homage to Mind . 
She revered Mind , when launched , or , as I say , precipitated , on an extensive knowledge of the world . 
I disposed of the parallel establishment by private contract , and we became as nearly one as could be expected under the circumstances . 
But she never could , and she never did , find a phrase satisfactory to her perhaps too favourable estimate of my intellect . 
, she addressed me in the same unfinished terms . 
Mr. Jasper has closed his eyes as the auctioneer has deepened his voice . 
'We can only suppose so , sir , Mr. Sapsea coincides . 
'As I say , Man proposes , Heaven disposes . 
It may or may not be putting the same thought in another form but that is the way I put it . 
'And now , Mr. Jasper , resumes the auctioneer , producing his scrap of manuscript , 'Mrs . 
Take it in your own hand . 
The setting out of the lines requires to be followed with the eye , as well as the contents with the mind . 
Mr. Jasper complying , sees and reads as follows ETHELINDA , Reverential Wife of MR . 
THOMAS SAPSEA , AUCTIONEER , VALUER , ESTATE AGENT , c . 
Whose Knowledge of the World , Though somewhat extensive , Never brought him acquainted with A SPIRIT More capable of LOOKING UP TO HIM . 
STRANGER , PAUSE And ask thyself the Question , CANST THOU DO LIKEWISE ? If Not , WITH A BLUSH RETIRE . 
'Admirable ! quoth Mr. Jasper , handing back the paper . 
'You approve , sir ? 'Impossible not to approve . 
Striking , characteristic , and complete . 
The auctioneer inclines his head , as one accepting his due and giving a receipt and invites the entering Durdles to take off that glass of wine , for it will warm him . 
Durdles is a stonemason chiefly in the gravestone , tomb , and monument way , and wholly of their colour from head to foot . 
No man is better known in Cloisterham . 
He is the chartered libertine of the place . 
and a wonderful sot which everybody knows he is . 
With the Cathedral crypt he is better acquainted than any living authority it may even be than any dead one . 
Be this as it may , he does know much about it , and , in the demolition of impedimental fragments of wall , buttress , and pavement , has seen strange sights . 
, and exhibited before the Bench of justices at the townhall . 
These occasions , however , have been few and far apart Durdles being as seldom drunk as sober . 
To Durdles , when he had consumed his glass of port , Mr. Sapsea intrusts that precious effort of his Muse . 
Durdles unfeelingly takes out his two foot rule , and measures the lines calmly , alloying them with stone grit . 
'This is for the monument , is it , Mr. Sapsea ? 'The Inscription . 
Mr. Sapsea waits for its effect on a common mind . 
'It'll come in to a eighth of a inch , says Durdles . 
'Your servant , Mr. Jasper . 
Hope I see you well . 
'How are you Durdles ? 'I've got a touch of the Tombatism on me , Mr. Jasper , but that I must expect . 
'You mean the Rheumatism , says Sapsea , in a sharp tone . 
I mean , Mr. Sapsea , the Tombatism . 
It's another sort from Rheumatism . 
Mr. Jasper knows what Durdles means . 
'It is a bitter cold place , Mr. Jasper assents , with an antipathetic shiver . 
'You had better let me have the key then , says Durdles . 
'Why , man , it is not to be put inside the monument ! 'Durdles knows where it's to be put , Mr. Sapsea no man better . 
Ask 'ere a man in Cloisterham whether Durdles knows his work . 
Mr. Sapsea rises , takes a key from a drawer , unlocks an iron safe let into the wall , and takes from it another key . 
'Why , Durdles ! exclaims Jasper , looking on amused , 'you are undermined with pockets ! 'And I carries weight in 'em too , Mr. Jasper . 
Feel those ! producing two other large keys . 
'Hand me Mr. Sapsea's likewise . 
Surely this is the heaviest of the three . 
'You'll find 'em much of a muchness , I expect , says Durdles . 
'They all belong to monuments . 
They all open Durdles's work . 
Durdles keeps the keys of his work mostly . 
Not that they're much used . 
You know they sometimes call you Stony Durdles , don't you ? 'Cloisterham knows me as Durdles , Mr. Jasper . 
'I am aware of that , of course . 
But the boys sometimes 'O ! if you mind them young imps of boys Durdles gruffly interrupts . 
'I don't mind them any more than you do . 
But there was a discussion the other day among the Choir , whether Stony stood for Tony clinking one key against another . 
'Or whether Stony stood for Stephen clinking with a change of keys . 
'Or whether the name comes from your trade . 
But the stony one is a gruff one likewise , and that hazy state of his is always an uncertain state , highly conscious of its dignity , and prone to take offence . 
Sometimes the stones hit him , and sometimes they miss him , but Durdles seems indifferent to either fortune . 
'What are you doing to the man ? demands Jasper , stepping out into the moonlight from the shade . 
'Making a cock shy of him , replies the hideous small boy . 
'Give me those stones in your hand . 
'Yes , I'll give 'em you down your throat , if you come a ketching hold of me , says the small boy , shaking himself loose , and backing . 
'I'll smash your eye , if you don't look out ! 'Baby Devil that you are , what has the man done to you ? 'He won't go home . 
'What is that to you ? 'He gives me a 'apenny to pelt him home if I ketches him out too late , says the boy . 
This would seem to be a poetical note of preparation , agreed upon , as a caution to Durdles to stand clear if he can , or to betake himself homeward . 
'Do you know this thing , this child ? asks Jasper , at a loss for a word that will define this thing . 
'Deputy , says Durdles , with a nod . 
'Is that its his name ? 'Deputy , assents Durdles . 
'I'm man servant up at the Travellers' Twopenny in Gas Works Garding , this thing explains . 
'All us man servants at Travellers' Lodgings is named Deputy . 
When we're chock full and the Travellers is all a bed I come out for my 'elth . 
Shall I carry your bundle ? 'Not on any account , replies Durdles , adjusting it . 
'Durdles was making his reflections here when you come up , sir , surrounded by his works , like a poplar Author . 
Your own brother in law introducing a sarcophagus within the railing , white and cold in the moonlight . 
Sapsea introducing the monument of that devoted wife . 
'Late Incumbent introducing the Reverend Gentleman's broken column . 
'Departed Assessed Taxes introducing a vase and towel , standing on what might represent the cake of soap . 
'Former pastrycook and Muffin maker , much respected introducing gravestone . 
'All safe and sound here , sir , and all Durdles's work . 
Of the common folk , that is merely bundled up in turf and brambles , the less said the better . 
A poor lot , soon forgot . 
'This creature , Deputy , is behind us , says Jasper , looking back . 
'You never cried Widdy Warning before you begun to night , says Durdles , unexpectedly reminded of , or imagining , an injury . 
'Yer lie , I did , says Deputy , in his only form of polite contradiction . 
'At which he takes aim ? Mr. Jasper suggests . 
'That's it , sir , returns Durdles , quite satisfied 'at which he takes aim . 
I took him in hand and gave him an object . 
What was he before ? A destroyer . 
What work did he do ? Nothing but destruction . 
What did he earn by it ? Short terms in Cloisterham jail . 
I put that enlightened object before him , and now he can turn his honest halfpenny by the three penn'orth a week . 
'I wonder he has no competitors . 
'He has plenty , Mr. Jasper , but he stones 'em all away . 
Now , I don't know what this scheme of mine comes to , pursues Durdles , considering about it with the same sodden gravity 'I don't know what you may precisely call it . 
It ain't a sort of a scheme of a National Education ? 'I should say not , replies Jasper . 
'I should say not , assents Durdles 'then we won't try to give it a name . 
'Is there anything new down in the crypt , Durdles ? asks John Jasper . 
'Anything old , I think you mean , growls Durdles . 
'It ain't a spot for novelty . 
'Any new discovery on your part , I meant . 
to be one of them old 'uns with a crook . 
'Yours is a curious existence . 
Without furnishing the least clue to the question , whether he receives this as a compliment or as quite the reverse , Durdles gruffly answers 'Yours is another . 
'Well ! inasmuch as my lot is cast in the same old earthy , chilly , never changing place , Yes . 
But there is much more mystery and interest in your connection with the Cathedral than in mine . 
The Stony One replies , in a general way , 'All right . 
Everybody knows where to find Durdles , when he's wanted . 
Which , if not strictly true , is approximately so , if taken to express that Durdles may always be found in a state of vagabondage somewhere . 
'What I dwell upon most , says Jasper , pursuing his subject of romantic interest , 'is the remarkable accuracy with which you would seem to find out where people are buried . 
What is the matter ? That bundle is in your way let me hold it . 
, and was looking about for some ledge or corner to place his bundle on , when thus relieved of it . 
'Just you give me my hammer out of that , says Durdles , 'and I'll show you . 
And his hammer is handed him . 
You pitch your note , don't you , Mr. Jasper ? 'Yes . 
'So I sound for mine . 
I take my hammer , and I tap . 
'I tap , tap , tap . 
Solid ! I go on tapping . 
Solid still ! Tap again . 
Holloa ! Hollow ! Tap again , persevering . 
Solid in hollow ! Tap , tap , tap , to try it better . 
'Say that hammer of mine's a wall my work . 
Two four and two is six , measuring on the pavement . 
'Six foot inside that wall is Mrs. Sapsea . 
'Not really Mrs. Sapsea ? 'Say Mrs. Sapsea . 
Her wall's thicker , but say Mrs. Sapsea . 
'I wouldn't have it at a gift , returns Durdles , by no means receiving the observation in good part . 
'I worked it out for myself . 
Durdles comes by HIS knowledge through grubbing deep for it , and having it up by the roots when it don't want to come . 
Holloa you Deputy ! 'Widdy ! is Deputy's shrill response , standing off again . 
And don't let me see any more of you to night , after we come to the Travellers' Twopenny . 
'Warning ! returns Deputy , having caught the halfpenny , and appearing by this mystic word to express his assent to the arrangement . 
, that they can never be persuaded or threatened into departure , without violently possessing themselves of some wooden forget me not , and bearing it off . 
As Durdles and Jasper come near , they are addressed by an inscribed paper lantern over the door , setting forth the purport of the house . 
At the corner of the lane , Jasper , hotly enraged , checks his companion and looks back . 
John Jasper returns by another way to his gatehouse , and entering softly with his key , finds his fire still burning . 
One of these is his own sleeping chamber the other is his nephew's . 
There is a light in each . 
His nephew lies asleep , calm and untroubled . 
John Jasper stands looking down upon him , his unlighted pipe in his hand , for some time , with a fixed and deep attention . 
Then , hushing his footsteps , he passes to his own room , lights his pipe , and delivers himself to the Spectres it invokes at midnight . 
It was scarcely breakfast time yet , for Mrs. Crisparkle mother , not wife of the Reverend Septimus was only just down , and waiting for the urn . 
Indeed , the Reverend Septimus left off at this very moment to take the pretty old lady's entering face between his boxing gloves and kiss it . 
Having done so with tenderness , the Reverend Septimus turned to again , countering with his left , and putting in his right , in a tremendous manner . 
'I say , every morning of my life , that you'll do it at last , Sept , remarked the old lady , looking on 'and so you will . 
'Do what , Ma dear ? 'Break the pier glass , or burst a blood vessel . 
'Neither , please God , Ma dear . 
She handed it over to her son . 
Now , the old lady was exceedingly proud of her bright eyes being so clear that she could read writing without spectacles . 
Therefore he now assumed a pair , of grave and prodigious proportions , which not only seriously inconvenienced his nose and his breakfast , but seriously impeded his perusal of the letter . 
For , he had the eyes of a microscope and a telescope combined , when they were unassisted . 
'It's from Mr. Honeythunder , of course , said the old lady , folding her arms . 
'Of course , assented her son . 
He then lamely read on Haven of Philanthropy , Chief Offices , London , Wednesday . 
DEAR MADAM , I write in the In the what's this ? What does he write in ? 'In the chair , said the old lady . 
, her son obeyed murmuring that his sight for reading manuscript got worse and worse daily . 
I write , his mother went on , reading very perspicuously and precisely , from the chair , to which I shall probably be confined for some hours . 
Septimus looked at the row of chairs against the wall , with a half protesting and half appealing countenance . 
I beg your pardon , Ma dear , for interrupting . 
Therefore , dear Madam , you will please prepare your son , the Rev . 
Mr. Septimus , to expect Neville as an inmate to be read with , on Monday next . 
On the same day Helena will accompany him to Cloisterham , to take up her quarters at the Nuns' House , the establishment recommended by yourself and son jointly . 
Please likewise to prepare for her reception and tuition there . 
With compliments to the Rev . 
'Well , Ma , said Septimus , after a little more rubbing of his ear , 'we must try it . 
There can be no doubt that we have room for an inmate , and that I have time to bestow upon him , and inclination too . 
I must confess to feeling rather glad that he is not Mr. Honeythunder himself . 
Though that seems wretchedly prejudiced does it not ? for I never saw him . 
'Than himself ? 'Than anybody . 
And finished his breakfast as if the flavour of the Superior Family Souchong , and also of the ham and toast and eggs , were a little on the wane . 
, after a public occasion of a philanthropic nature , when certain devoted orphans of tender years had been glutted with plum buns , and plump bumptiousness . 
These were all the antecedents known in Minor Canon Corner of the coming pupils . 
There is nothing disinterested in the notion , because we cannot be at our ease with them unless they are at their ease with us . 
Now , Jasper's nephew is down here at present and like takes to like , and youth takes to youth . 
He is a cordial young fellow , and we will have him to meet the brother and sister at dinner . 
We can't think of asking him , without asking Jasper . 
Add Miss Twinkleton and the fairy bride that is to be , and that's six . 
Add our two selves , and that's eight . 
Would eight at a friendly dinner at all put you out , Ma ? 'Nine would , Sept , returned the old lady , visibly nervous . 
'My dear Ma , I particularise eight . 
'The exact size of the table and the room , my dear . 
Miss Twinkleton did , indeed , glance at the globes , as regretting that they were not formed to be taken out into society but became reconciled to leaving them behind . 
In those days there was no railway to Cloisterham , and Mr. Sapsea said there never would be . 
Mr. Sapsea said more he said there never should be . 
'Is this Cloisterham ? demanded the passenger , in a tremendous voice . 
'It is , replied the driver , rubbing himself as if he ached , after throwing the reins to the ostler . 
'And I never was so glad to see it . 
'Tell your master to make his box seat wider , then , returned the passenger . 
'Your master is morally bound and ought to be legally , under ruinous penalties to provide for the comfort of his fellow man . 
The driver instituted , with the palms of his hands , a superficial perquisition into the state of his skeleton which seemed to make him anxious . 
'Have I sat upon you ? asked the passenger . 
'You have , said the driver , as if he didn't like it at all . 
'Take that card , my friend . 
'I think I won't deprive you on it , returned the driver , casting his eyes over it with no great favour , without taking it . 
'What's the good of it to me ? 'Be a Member of that Society , said the passenger . 
'What shall I get by it ? asked the driver . 
'Brotherhood , returned the passenger , in a ferocious voice . 
'Thankee , said the driver , very deliberately , as he got down 'my mother was contented with myself , and so am I. I don't want no brothers . 
'But you must have them , replied the passenger , also descending , 'whether you like it or not . 
Honeythunder ? 'That is my name , sir . 
'Reverend Mr. Septimus ? Glad to see you , sir . 
Neville and Helena are inside . 
'Hah ! I expected to see you older , sir . 
'I hope you will , was the good humoured reply . 
'Eh ? demanded Mr. Honeythunder . 
'Only a poor little joke . 
'Joke ? Ay I never see a joke , Mr. Honeythunder frowningly retorted . 
'A joke is wasted upon me , sir . 
Where are they ? Helena and Neville , come here ! Mr. Crisparkle has come down to meet you . 
The rough mental notes made in the first five minutes by Mr. Crisparkle would have read thus , VERBATIM . 
, and gave his arm to Helena Landless . 
Mrs. Crisparkle had need of her own share of philanthropy when she beheld this very large and very loud excrescence on the little party . 
Always something in the nature of a Boil upon the face of society , Mr. Honeythunder expanded into an inflammatory Wen in Minor Canon Corner . 
You were to abolish war , but were to make converts by making war upon them , and charging them with loving war as the apple of their eye . 
You were to have no capital punishment , but were first to sweep off the face of the earth all legislators , jurists , and judges , who were of the contrary opinion . 
You were to have universal concord , and were to get it by eliminating all the people who wouldn't , or conscientiously couldn't , be concordant . 
, and calling him all manner of names . 
Above all things , you were to do nothing in private , or on your own account . 
You were to go to the offices of the Haven of Philanthropy , and put your name down as a Member and a Professing Philanthropist . 
The dinner was a most doleful breakdown . 
to the verge of distraction by passing plates and dishes on , over his own head . 
Nobody could talk to anybody , because he held forth to everybody at once , as if the company had no individual existence , but were a Meeting . 
Or he would say 'Now see , sir , to what a position you are reduced . 
I will leave you no escape . 
But the gush of philanthropy that burst forth when the departure of Mr. Honeythunder began to impend , must have been highly gratifying to the feelings of that distinguished man . 
His coffee was produced , by the special activity of Mr. Tope , a full hour before he wanted it . 
Mr. Crisparkle sat with his watch in his hand for about the same period , lest he should overstay his time . 
The four young people were unanimous in believing that the Cathedral clock struck three quarters , when it actually struck but one . 
Miss Twinkleton estimated the distance to the omnibus at five and twenty minutes' walk , when it was really five . 
CHAPTER VII MORE CONFIDENCES THAN ONE 'I KNOW very little of that gentleman , sir , said Neville to the Minor Canon as they turned back . 
'You know very little of your guardian ? the Minor Canon repeated . 
'Almost nothing ! 'How came he 'To BE my guardian ? I'll tell you , sir . 
from Ceylon ? 'Indeed , no . 
We lived with a stepfather there . 
Our mother died there , when we were little children . 
We have had a wretched existence . 
She made him our guardian , and he was a miserly wretch who grudged us food to eat , and clothes to wear . 
'That was lately , I suppose ? 'Quite lately , sir . 
This stepfather of ours was a cruel brute as well as a grinding one . 
It is well he died when he did , or I might have killed him . 
Mr. Crisparkle stopped short in the moonlight and looked at his hopeful pupil in consternation . 
'I surprise you , sir ? he said , with a quick change to a submissive manner . 
'You shock me unspeakably shock me . 
The pupil hung his head for a little while , as they walked on , and then said 'You never saw him beat your sister . 
I have seen him beat mine , more than once or twice , and I never forgot it . 
'I am sorry I used them , and especially to you , sir . 
I beg to recall them . 
But permit me to set you right on one point . 
You spoke of my sister's tears . 
My sister would have let him tear her to pieces , before she would have let him believe that he could make her shed a tear . 
Mr. Crisparkle reviewed those mental notes of his , and was neither at all surprised to hear it , nor at all disposed to question it . 
'You are not on your defence , Mr. Neville . 
'I think I am , sir . 
At least I know I should be , if you were better acquainted with my character . 
'Well , Mr. Neville , was the rejoinder . 
There was that in the tone of this short speech which made the conscientious man to whom it was addressed uneasy . 
They were within sight of the lights in his windows , and he stopped . 
'Let us turn back and take a turn or two up and down , Mr. Neville , or you may not have time to finish what you wish to say to me . 
You are hasty in thinking that I mean to check you . 
'You have invited it , sir , without knowing it , ever since I came here . 
I say ever since , as if I had been here a week . 
to quarrel with you , and affront you , and break away again . 
'Really ? said Mr. Crisparkle , at a dead loss for anything else to say . 
'You see , we could not know what you were beforehand , sir could we ? 'Clearly not , said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'And having liked no one else with whom we have ever been brought into contact , we had made up our minds not to like you . 
'Really ? said Mr. Crisparkle again . 
'But we do like you , sir , and we see an unmistakable difference between your house and your reception of us , and anything else we have ever known . 
'I quite understand , Mr. Neville . 
And it is salutary to listen to such influences . 
'In describing my own imperfections , sir , I must ask you not to suppose that I am describing my sister's . 
She has come out of the disadvantages of our miserable life , as much better than I am , as that Cathedral tower is higher than those chimneys . 
Mr. Crisparkle in his own breast was not so sure of this . 
'I have had , sir , from my earliest remembrance , to suppress a deadly and bitter hatred . 
This has made me secret and revengeful . 
I have been always tyrannically held down by the strong hand . 
This has driven me , in my weakness , to the resource of being false and mean . 
I have been stinted of education , liberty , money , dress , the very necessaries of life , the commonest pleasures of childhood , the commonest possessions of youth . 
But this is not encouraging , thought Mr. Crisparkle as they turned again . 
'And to finish with , sir I have been brought up among abject and servile dependents , of an inferior race , and I may easily have contracted some affinity with them . 
Sometimes , I don't know but that it may be a drop of what is tigerish in their blood . 
'As in the case of that remark just now , thought Mr. Crisparkle . 
, you ought to know , to her honour , that nothing in our misery ever subdued her , though it often cowed me . 
, the flight was always of her planning and leading . 
Each time she dressed as a boy , and showed the daring of a man . 
I have nothing further to say , sir , except that I hope you will bear with me and make allowance for me . 
'Of that , Mr. Neville , you may be sure , returned the Minor Canon . 
'I don't preach more than I can help , and I will not repay your confidence with a sermon . 
'I will try to do my part , sir . 
'And , Mr. Neville , I will try to do mine . 
Here is my hand on it . 
May God bless our endeavours ! They were now standing at his house door , and a cheerful sound of voices and laughter was heard within . 
'We will take one more turn before going in , said Mr. Crisparkle , 'for I want to ask you a question . 
When you said you were in a changed mind concerning me , you spoke , not only for yourself , but for your sister too ? 'Undoubtedly I did , sir . 
'Excuse me , Mr. Neville , but I think you have had no opportunity of communicating with your sister , since I met you . 
Mr. Honeythunder was very eloquent but perhaps I may venture to say , without ill nature , that he rather monopolised the occasion . 
May you not have answered for your sister without sufficient warrant ? Neville shook his head with a proud smile . 
She not only feels as I have described , but she very well knows that I am taking this opportunity of speaking to you , both for her and for myself . 
'I will ask for one more turn , sir , this time , said the young man , with a rather heightened colour rising in his face . 
'I yes , I called it eloquence , said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'But for Mr. Honeythunder's eloquence , I might have had no need to ask you what I am going to ask you . 
This Mr. Edwin Drood , sir I think that's the name ? 'Quite correct , said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'D r double o d . 
'Does he or did he read with you , sir ? 'Never , Mr. Neville . 
He comes here visiting his relation , Mr. Jasper . 
Then he explained , aloud , what he knew of the little story of their betrothal . 
'O ! THAT'S it , is it ? said the young man . 
A moment afterwards they re entered the house . 
Mr. Jasper was seated at the piano as they came into his drawing room , and was accompanying Miss Rosebud while she sang . 
It was a sorrowful strain of parting , and the fresh young voice was very plaintive and tender . 
In that attitude he yet sat quiet not even looking round , when all the rest had changed their places and were reassuring one another . 
'Pussy's not used to an audience that's the fact , said Edwin Drood . 
'She got nervous , and couldn't hold out . 
Besides , Jack , you are such a conscientious master , and require so much , that I believe you make her afraid of you . 
'No wonder , repeated Helena . 
'There , Jack , you hear ! You would be afraid of him , under similar circumstances , wouldn't you , Miss Landless ? 'Not under any circumstances , returned Helena . 
Jasper brought down his hands , looked over his shoulder , and begged to thank Miss Landless for her vindication of his character . 
Then he fell to dumbly playing , without striking the notes , while his little pupil was taken to an open window for air , and was otherwise petted and restored . 
When she was brought back , his place was empty . 
'Jack's gone , Pussy , Edwin told her . 
'I am more than half afraid he didn't like to be charged with being the Monster who had frightened you . 
But she answered never a word , and shivered , as if they had made her a little too cold . 
to set a better example than one of rakish habits , wrappers were put in requisition , and the two young cavaliers volunteered to see the ladies home . 
It was soon done , and the gate of the Nuns' House closed upon them . 
The boarders had retired , and only Mrs. Tisher in solitary vigil awaited the new pupil . 
Her bedroom being within Rosa's , very little introduction or explanation was necessary , before she was placed in charge of her new friend , and left for the night . 
'This is a blessed relief , my dear , said Helena . 
'I have been dreading all day , that I should be brought to bay at this time . 
'There are not many of us , returned Rosa , 'and we are good natured girls at least the others are I can answer for them . 
'I can answer for you , laughed Helena , searching the lovely little face with her dark , fiery eyes , and tenderly caressing the small figure . 
'You will be a friend to me , won't you ? 'I hope so . 
But the idea of my being a friend to you seems too absurd , though . 
'Why ? 'O , I am such a mite of a thing , and you are so womanly and handsome . 
You seem to have resolution and power enough to crush me . 
I shrink into nothing by the side of your presence even . 
'I am a neglected creature , my dear , unacquainted with all accomplishments , sensitively conscious that I have everything to learn , and deeply ashamed to own my ignorance . 
'And yet you acknowledge everything to me ! said Rosa . 
'My pretty one , can I help it ? There is a fascination in you . 
'O ! is there though ? pouted Rosa , half in jest and half in earnest . 
'What a pity Master Eddy doesn't feel it more ! Of course her relations towards that young gentleman had been already imparted in Minor Canon Corner . 
'Why , surely he must love you with all his heart ! cried Helena , with an earnestness that threatened to blaze into ferocity if he didn't . 
'Eh ? O , well , I suppose he does , said Rosa , pouting again 'I am sure I have no right to say he doesn't . 
Perhaps I am not as nice to him as I ought to be . 
I don't think I am . 
But it IS so ridiculous ! Helena's eyes demanded what was . 
'WE are , said Rosa , answering as if she had spoken . 
'We are such a ridiculous couple . 
And we are always quarrelling . 
'Why ? 'Because we both know we are ridiculous , my dear ! Rosa gave that answer as if it were the most conclusive answer in the world . 
And be a friend to me , please I don't understand myself and I want a friend who can understand me , very much indeed . 
Helena Landless kissed her , and retaining both her hands said 'Who is Mr. Jasper ? Rosa turned aside her head in answering 'Eddy's uncle , and my music master . 
'You do not love him ? 'Ugh ! She put her hands up to her face , and shook with fear or horror . 
'You know that he loves you ? 'O , don't , don't , don't ! cried Rosa , dropping on her knees , and clinging to her new resource . 
'Don't tell me of it ! He terrifies me . 
He haunts my thoughts , like a dreadful ghost . 
I feel that I am never safe from him . 
I feel as if he could pass in through the wall when he is spoken of . 
She actually did look round , as if she dreaded to see him standing in the shadow behind her . 
'Try to tell me more about it , darling . 
'Yes , I will , I will . 
Because you are so strong . 
But hold me the while , and stay with me afterwards . 
'My child ! You speak as if he had threatened you in some dark way . 
'He has never spoken to me about that . 
'What has he done ? 'He has made a slave of me with his looks . 
He has forced me to understand him , without his saying a word and he has forced me to keep silence , without his uttering a threat . 
When I play , he never moves his eyes from my hands . 
When I sing , he never moves his eyes from my lips . 
I avoid his eyes , but he forces me to see them without looking at them . 
'What is this imagined threatening , pretty one ? What is threatened ? 'I don't know . 
I have never even dared to think or wonder what it is . 
It was as if he kissed me , and I couldn't bear it , but cried out . 
You must never breathe this to any one . 
Eddy is devoted to him . 
Hold me ! Stay with me ! I am too frightened to be left by myself . 
The lustrous gipsy face drooped over the clinging arms and bosom , and the wild black hair fell down protectingly over the childish form . 
There was a slumbering gleam of fire in the intense dark eyes , though they were then softened with compassion and admiration . 
'Do you stay here long , Mr. Drood ? says Neville . 
'Not this time , is the careless answer . 
'I leave for London again , to morrow . 
But I shall be here , off and on , until next Midsummer then I shall take my leave of Cloisterham , and England too for many a long day , I expect . 
'Are you going abroad ? 'Going to wake up Egypt a little , is the condescending answer . 
'Are you reading ? 'Reading ? repeats Edwin Drood , with a touch of contempt . 
Doing , working , engineering . 
Jack you met him at dinner is , until then , my guardian and trustee . 
'I heard from Mr. Crisparkle of your other good fortune . 
Edwin has made his retort with an abruptness not at all polite . 
They stop and interchange a rather heated look . 
'I am not accountable for Mr. Crisparkle's mentioning the matter to me , quite openly , Neville begins . 
'No that's true you are not , Edwin Drood assents . 
'But , resumes Neville , 'I am accountable for mentioning it to you . 
And I did so , on the supposition that you could not fail to be highly proud of it . 
Now , there are these two curious touches of human nature working the secret springs of this dialogue . 
Neville Landless is already enough impressed by Little Rosebud , to feel indignant that Edwin Drood should hold his prize so lightly . 
should dispose of him so coolly , and put him out of the way so entirely . 
However , the last remark had better be answered . 
, 'that what people are proudest of , they usually talk most about I don't know either , that what they are proudest of , they most like other people to talk about . 
But I live a busy life , and I speak under correction by you readers , who ought to know everything , and I daresay do . 
But , to be sure , I was not brought up in busy life , and my ideas of civility were formed among Heathens . 
'Perhaps , the best civility , whatever kind of people we are brought up among , retorts Edwin Drood , 'is to mind our own business . 
If you will set me that example , I promise to follow it . 
But , here a startling right hand is laid on Edwin's shoulder , and Jasper stands between them . 
For , it would seem that he , too , has strolled round by the Nuns' House , and has come up behind them on the shadowy side of the road . 
'Ned , Ned , Ned ! he says 'we must have no more of this . 
I have overheard high words between you two . 
Remember , my dear boy , you are almost in the position of host to night . 
You belong , as it were , to the place , and in a manner represent it towards a stranger . 
Mr. Neville is a stranger , and you should respect the obligations of hospitality . 
Now , what is amiss ? But why ask ! Let there be nothing amiss , and the question is superfluous . 
'Nor in me , says Neville Landless , though not so freely or perhaps so carelessly . 
'But if Mr. Drood knew all that lies behind me , far away from here , he might know better how it is that sharp edged words have sharp edges to wound me . 
'Perhaps , says Jasper , in a soothing manner , 'we had better not qualify our good understanding . 
We had better not say anything having the appearance of a remonstrance or condition it might not seem generous . 
Frankly and freely , you see there is no anger in Ned . 
Frankly and freely , there is no anger in you , Mr. Neville ? 'None at all , Mr. Jasper . 
Still , not quite so frankly or so freely or , be it said once again , not quite so carelessly perhaps . 
Ned , you are up and away to morrow . 
We will carry Mr. Neville in with us , to take a stirrup cup . 
'With all my heart , Jack . 
'And with all mine , Mr. Jasper . 
Neville feels it impossible to say less , but would rather not go . 
He has an impression upon him that he has lost hold of his temper feels that Edwin Drood's coolness , so far from being infectious , makes him red hot . 
Mr. Jasper , still walking in the centre , hand to shoulder on either side , beautifully turns the Refrain of a drinking song , and they all go up to his rooms . 
There , the first object visible , when he adds the light of a lamp to that of the fire , is the portrait over the chimneypicce . 
It is not an object calculated to improve the understanding between the two young men , as rather awkwardly reviving the subject of their difference . 
Accordingly , they both glance at it consciously , but say nothing . 
, directly calls attention to it . 
'You recognise that picture , Mr. Neville ? shading the lamp to throw the light upon it . 
'I recognise it , but it is far from flattering the original . 
'O , you are hard upon it ! It was done by Ned , who made me a present of it . 
'I am sorry for that , Mr. Drood . 
'A little humouring of Pussy's points ! I'm going to paint her gravely , one of these days , if she's good . 
Jasper looks observantly from the one to the other , slightly smiles , and turns his back to mix a jug of mulled wine at the fire . 
It seems to require much mixing and compounding . 
'That's your misfortune , and not your fault . 
You would if you could . 
, Juno , Minerva , Diana , and Venus , all in one . 
Eh ? 'I have no lady love , and I can't say . 
I must bear the loss . 
As it is his foot that is in the stirrup metaphorically our stirrup cup is to be devoted to him . 
Ned , my dearest fellow , my love ! Jasper sets the example of nearly emptying his glass , and Neville follows it . 
Edwin Drood says , 'Thank you both very much , and follows the double example . 
'Look at him , cries Jasper , stretching out his hand admiringly and tenderly , though rallyingly too . 
'See where he lounges so easily , Mr. Neville ! The world is all before him where to choose . 
Edwin still sits thrown back in his chair , making that rest of clasped hands for his head . 
'See how little he heeds it all ! Jasper proceeds in a bantering vein . 
'It is hardly worth his while to pluck the golden fruit that hangs ripe on the tree for him . 
And yet consider the contrast , Mr. Neville . 
You and I have no prospect of stirring work and interest , or of change and excitement , or of domestic ease and love . 
, but the tedious unchanging round of this dull place . 
'Upon my soul , Jack , says Edwin , complacently , 'I feel quite apologetic for having my way smoothed as you describe . 
But you know what I know , Jack , and it may not be so very easy as it seems , after all . 
May it , Pussy ? To the portrait , with a snap of his thumb and finger . 
'We have got to hit it off yet haven't we , Pussy ? You know what I mean , Jack . 
His speech has become thick and indistinct . 
Jasper , quiet and self possessed , looks to Neville , as expecting his answer or comment . 
When Neville speaks , HIS speech is also thick and indistinct . 
'It might have been better for Mr. Drood to have known some hardships , he says , defiantly . 
Mr. Jasper quickly looks to his nephew for his rejoinder . 
'Have YOU known hardships , may I ask ? says Edwin Drood , sitting upright . 
Mr. Jasper quickly looks to the other for his retort . 
'And what have they made you sensible of ? Mr. Jasper's play of eyes between the two holds good throughout the dialogue , to the end . 
'I have told you once before to night . 
'You have done nothing of the sort . 
'I tell you I have . 
That you take a great deal too much upon yourself . 
'You added something else to that , if I remember ? 'Yes , I did say something else . 
'I said that in the part of the world I come from , you would be called to account for it . 
'Only there ? cries Edwin Drood , with a contemptuous laugh . 
'A long way off , I believe ? Yes I see ! That part of the world is at a safe distance . 
'Say here , then , rejoins the other , rising in a fury . 
'Say anywhere ! Your vanity is intolerable , your conceit is beyond endurance you talk as if you were some rare and precious prize , instead of a common boaster . 
You are a common fellow , and a common boaster . 
but you are no judge of white men . 
Neville , for shame ! Give this glass to me . 
Open your hand , sir . 
I WILL have it ! But Neville throws him off , and pauses for an instant , in a raging passion , with the goblet yet in his uplifted hand . 
Then , he dashes it down under the grate , with such force that the broken splinters fly out again in a shower and he leaves the house . 
He repairs to Minor Canon Corner , and knocks softly at the door . 
It is Mr. Crisparkle's custom to sit up last of the early household , very softly touching his piano and practising his favourite parts in concerted vocal music . 
His knock is immediately answered by Mr. Crisparkle himself . 
When he opens the door , candle in hand , his cheerful face falls , and disappointed amazement is in it . 
Neville ! In this disorder ! Where have you been ? 'I have been to Mr. Jasper's , sir . 
, and turns him into his own little book room , and shuts the door . 
'I have begun ill , sir . 
I have begun dreadfully ill . 
You are not sober , Mr. Neville . 
Neville , Mr. Neville , says the Minor Canon , shaking his head with a sorrowful smile 'I have heard that said before . 
'I think my mind is much confused , but I think it is equally true of Mr. Jasper's nephew , sir . 
'Very likely , is the dry rejoinder . 
He insulted me most grossly . 
He had heated that tigerish blood I told you of to day , before then . 
Neville , rejoins the Minor Canon , mildly , but firmly 'I request you not to speak to me with that clenched right hand . 
Unclench it , if you please . 
'He goaded me , sir , pursues the young man , instantly obeying , 'beyond my power of endurance . 
I cannot say whether or no he meant it at first , but he did it . 
He certainly meant it at last . 
'You have clenched that hand again , is Mr. Crisparkle's quiet commentary . 
'I beg your pardon , sir . 
'You know your room , for I showed it you before dinner but I will accompany you to it once more . 
Your arm , if you please . 
Softly , for the house is all a bed . 
The gentle Minor Canon has had it in his thoughts to leave the room , without a word . 
He might have had many a worse perhaps , could have had few better . 
Another soft knock at the outer door attracts his attention as he goes down stairs . 
He opens it to Mr. Jasper , holding in his hand the pupil's hat . 
'We have had an awful scene with him , says Jasper , in a low voice . 
'Has it been so bad as that ? 'Murderous ! Mr. Crisparkle remonstrates 'No , no , no . 
Do not use such strong words . 
'He might have laid my dear boy dead at my feet . 
It is no fault of his , that he did not . 
But that I was , through the mercy of God , swift and strong with him , he would have cut him down on my hearth . 
There is something of the tiger in his dark blood . 
'Ah ! thinks Mr. Crisparkle , 'so he said ! 'You , my dear sir , pursues Jasper , taking his hand , 'even you , have accepted a dangerous charge . 
'You need have no fear for me , Jasper , returns Mr. Crisparkle , with a quiet smile . 
'I have none for myself . 
But you may be , and my dear boy has been . 
, who had been brought home in her father's arms , drowned . 
The fatal accident had happened at a party of pleasure . 
So were the wild despair and the subsequent bowed down grief of her poor young father , who died broken hearted on the first anniversary of that hard day . 
The atmosphere of pity surrounding the little orphan girl when she first came to Cloisterham , had never cleared away . 
of sacrificing to the Graces . 
Miss Landless's brother had thrown a bottle at Mr. Edwin Drood . 
Miss Landless's brother had thrown a knife at Mr. Edwin Drood . 
A knife became suggestive of a fork and Miss Landless's brother had thrown a fork at Mr. Edwin Drood . 
Miss Landless's brother had said he admired Miss Bud . 
Mr. Edwin Drood had said to Miss Landless's brother that he had no business to admire Miss Bud . 
, and thrown them all at Mr. Edwin Drood . 
To Rosa direct , she brought a petition from her brother that she would forgive him and , having delivered it with sisterly earnestness , made an end of the subject . 
It was reserved for Miss Twinkleton to tone down the public mind of the Nuns' House . 
Mrs. Tisher at the same time grouped herself behind her chief , as representing Queen Elizabeth's first historical female friend at Tilbury fort . 
was no exception to the great limner's portrait of Rumour elsewhere . 
had been very grossly exaggerated by Rumour's voice . 
, we descended from our maiden elevation to discuss this uncongenial and this unfit theme . 
, we would now discard the subject , and concentrate our minds upon the grateful labours of the day . 
Never free from such uneasiness when she was with her affianced husband , it was not likely that she would be free from it when they were apart . 
At this critical time , of all times , Rosa's guardian was announced as having come to see her . 
Mr. Grewgious had been well selected for his trust , as a man of incorruptible integrity , but certainly for no other appropriate quality discernible on the surface . 
He was an arid , sandy man , who , if he had been put into a grinding mill , looked as if he would have ground immediately into high dried snuff . 
Mr. Grewgious was discovered by his ward , much discomfited by being in Miss Twinkleton's company in Miss Twinkleton's own sacred room . 
Dim forebodings of being examined in something , and not coming well out of it , seemed to oppress the poor gentleman when found in these circumstances . 
'My dear , how do you do ? I am glad to see you . 
My dear , how much improved you are . 
Permit me to hand you a chair , my dear . 
I beg that you will not move . 
'I must entreat permission to MOVE , returned Miss Twinkleton , repeating the word with a charming grace 'but I will not withdraw , since you are so obliging . 
If I wheel my desk to this corner window , shall I be in the way ? 'Madam ! In the way ! 'You are very kind . 
Rosa , my dear , you will be under no restraint , I am sure . 
Here Mr. Grewgious , left by the fire with Rosa , said again 'My dear , how do you do ? I am glad to see you , my dear . 
And having waited for her to sit down , sat down himself . 
'My visits , said Mr. Grewgious , 'are , like those of the angels not that I compare myself to an angel . 
'No , sir , said Rosa . 
'Not by any means , assented Mr. Grewgious . 
'I merely refer to my visits , which are few and far between . 
The angels are , we know very well , up stairs . 
Miss Twinkleton looked round with a kind of stiff stare . 
Miss Twinkleton resumed her writing . 
You are well and happy , my dear ? You look so . 
'Yes , indeed , sir , answered Rosa . 
Mr. Grewgious smoothed his smooth head again , and then made another reference to his pocket book lining out 'well and happy , as disposed of . 
Pounds , shillings , and pence , is my next note . 
A dry subject for a young lady , but an important subject too . 
Life is pounds , shillings , and pence . 
His voice was as hard and dry as himself , and Fancy might have ground it straight , like himself , into high dried snuff . 
And yet , through the very limited means of expression that he possessed , he seemed to express kindness . 
If Nature had but finished him off , kindness might have been recognisable in his face at this moment . 
You find your allowance always sufficient for your wants , my dear ? Rosa wanted for nothing , and therefore it was ample . 
'And you are not in debt ? Rosa laughed at the idea of being in debt . 
It seemed , to her inexperience , a comical vagary of the imagination . 
Mr. Grewgious stretched his near sight to be sure that this was her view of the case . 
Othenwise , being a particularly Angular man , I should not have intruded here . 
I am the last man to intrude into a sphere for which I am so entirely unfitted . 
I feel , on these premises , as if I was a bear with the cramp in a youthful Cotillon . 
His ungainliness gave him enough of the air of his simile to set Rosa off laughing heartily . 
'It strikes you in the same light , said Mr. Grewgious , with perfect calmness . 
To return to my memorandum . 
Mr. Edwin has been to and fro here , as was arranged . 
You have mentioned that , in your quarterly letters to me . 
And you like him , and he likes you . 
'I LIKE him very much , sir , rejoined Rosa . 
'So I said , my dear , returned her guardian , for whose ear the timid emphasis was much too fine . 
'We write to one another , said Rosa , pouting , as she recalled their epistolary differences . 
'Such is the meaning that I attach to the word correspond in this application , my dear , said Mr. Grewgious . 
Your relations with her are far more than business relations , no doubt but a residue of business remains in them , and business is business ever . 
I am a particularly Angular man , proceeded Mr. Grewgious , as if it suddenly occurred to him to mention it , 'and I am not used to give anything away . 
If , for these two reasons , some competent Proxy would give YOU away , I should take it very kindly . 
Rosa intimated , with her eyes on the ground , that she thought a substitute might be found , if required . 
'Surely , surely , said Mr. Grewgious . 
'For instance , the gentleman who teaches Dancing here he would know how to do it with graceful propriety . 
He would advance and retire in a manner satisfactory to the feelings of the officiating clergyman , and of yourself , and the bridegroom , and all parties concerned . 
I am I am a particularly Angular man , said Mr. Grewgious , as if he had made up his mind to screw it out at last 'and should only blunder . 
Rosa sat still and silent . 
Perhaps her mind had not got quite so far as the ceremony yet , but was lagging on the way there . 
Now , my dear , said Mr. Grewgious , referring to his notes , disposing of 'Marriage' with his pencil , and taking a paper from his pocket 'although . 
I have before possessed you with the contents of your father's will , I think it right at this time to leave a certified copy of it in your hands . 
'Cannot the copy go to Eddy himself ? 'Why , yes , my dear , if you particularly wish it but I spoke of Mr. Jasper as being his trustee . 
'I do particularly wish it , if you please , said Rosa , hurriedly and earnestly 'I don't like Mr. Jasper to come between us , in any way . 
'It is natural , I suppose , said Mr. Grewgious , 'that your young husband should be all in all . 
You observe that I say , I suppose . 
The fact is , I am a particularly Unnatural man , and I don't know from my own knowledge . 
Rosa looked at him with some wonder . 
'I mean , he explained , 'that young ways were never my ways . 
I was the only offspring of parents far advanced in life , and I half believe I was born advanced in life myself . 
I was a chip and a very dry one when I first became aware of myself . 
Respecting the other certified copy , your wish shall be complied with . 
Respecting your inheritance , I think you know all . 
It is an annuity of two hundred and fifty pounds . 
I am empowered to advance the cost of your preparations for your marriage out of that fund . 
'For the lasting good of both of us , and the lasting happiness of both of us ? 'Just so . 
'That we might be to one another even much more than they had been to one another ? 'Just so . 
'It was not bound upon Eddy , and it was not bound upon me , by any forfeit , in case 'Don't be agitated , my dear . 
In the case that it brings tears into your affectionate eyes even to picture to yourself in the case of your not marrying one another no , no forfeiture on either side . 
You would then have been my ward until you were of age . 
No worse would have befallen you . 
, on attaining his majority , just as now . 
'In short , said Mr. Grewgious , 'this betrothal is a wish , a sentiment , a friendly project , tenderly expressed on both sides . 
That it was strongly felt , and that there was a lively hope that it would prosper , there can be no doubt . 
When you were both children , you began to be accustomed to it , and it HAS prospered . 
, that they are suited to each other , and will make each other happy . 
So expressionless of any approach to spontaneity were his face and manner . 
My dear , is there any wish of yours that I can further ? Rosa shook her head , with an almost plaintive air of hesitation in want of help . 
'Surely , surely , returned Mr. Grewgious . 
'You two should be of one mind in all things . 
Is the young gentleman expected shortly ? 'He has gone away only this morning . 
He will be back at Christmas . 
of my business responsibilities towards the accomplished lady in the corner window . 
They will accrue at that season . 
I will now , my dear , take my leave . 
, as a present to me , from the neighbourhood of Norwich . 
I should be quite proud of your wishing to see me , my dear . 
As a professional Receiver of rents , so very few people DO wish to see me , that the novelty would be bracing . 
For his ready acquiescence , the grateful Rosa put her hands upon his shoulders , stood on tiptoe , and instantly kissed him . 
'Lord bless me ! cried Mr. Grewgious . 
'Thank you , my dear ! The honour is almost equal to the pleasure . 
Miss Twinkleton , madam , I have had a most satisfactory conversation with my ward , and I will now release you from the incumbrance of my presence . 
'Nay , sir , rejoined Miss Twinkleton , rising with a gracious condescension 'say not incumbrance . 
Not so , by any means . 
I cannot permit you to say so . 
, he asks for a holiday , or some sort of grace . 
But if there is any young lady at all under a cloud , might I solicit 'Ah , Mr. Grewgious , Mr. Grewgious ! cried Miss Twinkleton , with a chastely rallying forefinger . 
Miss Twinkleton here achieved a curtsey , suggestive of marvels happening to her respected legs , and which she came out of nobly , three yards behind her starting point . 
As he held it incumbent upon him to call on Mr. Jasper before leaving Cloisterham , Mr. Grewgious went to the gatehouse , and climbed its postern stair . 
But Mr. Jasper's door being closed , and presenting on a slip of paper the word 'Cathedral , the fact of its being service time was borne into the mind of Mr. Grewgious . 
'Dear me , said Mr. Grewgious , peeping in , 'it's like looking down the throat of Old Time . 
Mr. Grewgious had by that time walked to the chancel steps , where he met the living waters coming out . 
'Nothing is the matter ? Thus Jasper accosted him , rather quickly . 
'You have not been sent for ? 'Not at all , not at all . 
I came down of my own accord . 
I have been to my pretty ward's , and am now homeward bound again . 
'You found her thriving ? 'Blooming indeed . 
I merely came to tell her , seriously , what a betrothal by deceased parents is . 
'And what is it according to your judgment ? Mr. Grewgious noticed the whiteness of the lips that asked the question , and put it down to the chilling account of the Cathedral . 
'May I ask , had you any especial reason for telling her that ? Mr. Grewgious answered somewhat sharply 'The especial reason of doing my duty , sir . 
Then he added 'Come , Mr. Jasper I know your affection for your nephew , and that you are quick to feel on his behalf . 
I assure you that this implies not the least doubt of , or disrespect to , your nephew . 
'You could not , returned Jasper , with a friendly pressure of his arm , as they walked on side by side , 'speak more handsomely . 
Mr. Grewgious pulled off his hat to smooth his head , and , having smoothed it , nodded it contentedly , and put his hat on again . 
'And you will win your wager , if you do , retorted Mr. Grewgious . 
'I am glad you say so . 
Mr. Grewgious touched himself on the breast , and said 'I mean us . 
'So , you settled with her that you would come back at Christmas ? observed Jasper . 
But it is only right that the young lady should be considered , as you have pointed out , and that I should accept my cue from you . 
'That is my understanding , assented Mr. Grewgious , as they shook hands to part . 
'God bless them both ! 'God save them both ! cried Jasper . 
'I said , bless them , remarked the former , looking back over his shoulder . 
'I said , save them , returned the latter . 
'Let us discuss it , Ma . 
'I have no objection to discuss it , Sept . 
I trust , my dear , I am always open to discussion . 
'There is nothing like being open to discussion . 
'I hope not , my dear , returned the old lady , evidently shut to it . 
'Well ! Mr. Neville , on that unfortunate occasion , commits himself under provocation . 
'And under mulled wine , added the old lady . 
'I must admit the wine . 
Though I believe the two young men were much alike in that regard . 
'I don't , said the old lady . 
'Why not , Ma ? 'Because I DON'T , said the old lady . 
'Still , I am quite open to discussion . 
'But , my dear Ma , I cannot see how we are to discuss , if you take that line . 
'Blame Mr. Neville for it , Sept , and not me , said the old lady , with stately severity . 
'That is not to be denied , Ma . 
He was then , and he is now , very sorry for it . 
'To be candid , Ma , I think I should have kept it from you if I could though I had not decidedly made up my mind . 
Then it was too late . 
'Too late , indeed , Sept . 
He was still as pale as gentlemanly ashes at what had taken place in his rooms overnight . 
The old lady immediately walked across the room and kissed him saying , 'Of course , my dear Sept , I am sure of that . 
'However , it became the town talk , said Mr. Crisparkle , rubbing his ear , as his mother resumed her seat , and her knitting , 'and passed out of my power . 
'And I said then , Sept , returned the old lady , 'that I thought ill of Mr. Neville . 
And I say now , that I think ill of Mr. Neville . 
And I said then , and I say now , that I hope Mr. Neville may come to good , but I don't believe he will . 
Here the cap vibrated again considerably . 
'But , my dear Ma , he never said there was . 
'Perhaps not , returned the old lady 'still , I don't see that it greatly signifies . 
'Besides , Sept , ask yourself what he would be without his sister . 
You know what an influence she has over him you know what a capacity she has you know that whatever he reads with you , he reads with her . 
He thought of the picturesque alliance between those two , externally so very different . 
It was a most wonderful closet , worthy of Cloisterham and of Minor Canon Corner . 
Every benevolent inhabitant of this retreat had his name inscribed upon his stomach . 
The scene closing on these charmers , and the lower slide ascending , oranges were revealed , attended by a mighty japanned sugar box , to temper their acerbity if unripe . 
Lowest of all , a compact leaden vault enshrined the sweet wine and a stock of cordials whence issued whispers of Seville Orange , Lemon , Almond , and Caraway seed . 
came forth again mellow faced , and seeming to have undergone a saccharine transfiguration . 
The Reverend Septimus yielded himself up quite as willing a victim to a nauseous medicinal herb closet , also presided over by the china shepherdess , as to this glorious cupboard . 
In their orderly and punctual progress they brought round Vesper Service and twilight . 
He carried it in a masterly manner , and , not breathed even then , stood looking down upon the river . 
The river at Cloisterham is sufficiently near the sea to throw up oftentimes a quantity of seaweed . 
In his mind he was contrasting the wild and noisy sea with the quiet harbour of Minor Canon Corner , when Helena and Neville Landless passed below him . 
He had had the two together in his thoughts all day , and at once climbed down to speak to them together . 
It was their favourite walk . 
'It is very retired , assented Mr. Crisparkle , laying hold of his opportunity straightway , and walking on with them . 
'It is a place of all others where one can speak without interruption , as I wish to do . 
Mr. Neville , I believe you tell your sister everything that passes between us ? 'Everything , sir . 
In saying it he looked to her , and not to him therefore it was she , and not he , who replied 'Yes . 
'I call it unfortunate , Miss Helena , resumed Mr. Crisparkle , 'forasmuch as it certainly has engendered a prejudice against Neville . 
There is a notion about , that he is a dangerously passionate fellow , of an uncontrollable and furious temper he is really avoided as such . 
'I have no doubt he is , poor fellow , said Helena , with a look of proud compassion at her brother , expressing a deep sense of his being ungenerously treated . 
'I should be quite sure of it , from your saying so but what you tell me is confirmed by suppressed hints and references that I meet with every day . 
But how much wiser to take action at once , than to trust to uncertain time ! Besides , apart from its being politic , it is right . 
For there can be no question that Neville was wrong . 
'He was provoked , Helena submitted . 
'He was the assailant , Mr. Crisparkle submitted . 
From your heart you could not do it , if his case were yours . 
'I have represented to Mr. Crisparkle , Helena , said Neville , with a glance of deference towards his tutor , 'that if I could do it from my heart , I would . 
But I cannot , and I revolt from the pretence . 
You forget however , that to put the case to Mr. Crisparkle as his own , is to suppose to have done what I did . 
'I ask his pardon , said Helena . 
'You see , remarked Mr. Crisparkle , again laying hold of his opportunity , though with a moderate and delicate touch , 'you both instinctively acknowledge that Neville did wrong . 
Help me to convince him that I cannot be the first to make concessions without mockery and falsehood . 
My nature must be changed before I can do so , and it is not changed . 
I am sensible of inexpressible affront , and deliberate aggravation of inexpressible affront , and I am angry . 
The plain truth is , I am still as angry when I recall that night as I was that night . 
'Neville , hinted the Minor Canon , with a steady countenance , 'you have repeated that former action of your hands , which I so much dislike . 
'I am sorry for it , sir , but it was involuntary . 
I confessed that I was still as angry . 
'And I confess , said Mr. Crisparkle , 'that I hoped for better things . 
The time may come when your powerful influence will do even that with the difficult pupil whose antecedents you know but it has not come yet . 
Mr. Crisparkle , in utter amazement , looked at Helena for corroboration , and met in her expressive face full corroboration , and a plea for advice . 
Moreover , it is monstrous that you should take upon yourself to be the young lady's champion against her chosen husband . 
Besides , you have seen them only once . 
The young lady has become your sister's friend and I wonder that your sister , even on her behalf , has not checked you in this irrational and culpable fancy . 
'She has tried , sir , but uselessly . 
Husband or no husband , that fellow is incapable of the feeling with which I am inspired towards the beautiful young creature whom he treats like a doll . 
I say he is as incapable of it , as he is unworthy of her . 
I say she is sacrificed in being bestowed upon him . 
Mr. Crisparkle , watching him attentively , and at the same time meditating how to proceed , walked on for some paces in silence . 
Neville , Mr. Neville , I am sorely grieved to see in you more traces of a character as sullen , angry , and wild , as the night now closing in . 
They are of too serious an aspect to leave me the resource of treating the infatuation you have disclosed , as undeserving serious consideration . 
I give it very serious consideration , and I speak to you accordingly . 
This feud between you and young Drood must not go on . 
I cannot permit it to go on any longer , knowing what I now know from you , and you living under my roof . 
Whatever prejudiced and unauthorised constructions your blind and envious wrath may put upon his character , it is a frank , good natured character . 
I know I can trust to it for that . 
Now , pray observe what I am about to say . 
On reflection , and on your sister's representation , I am willing to admit that , in making peace with young Drood , you have a right to be met half way . 
I will engage that you shall be , and even that young Drood shall make the first advance . 
This condition fulfilled , you will pledge me the honour of a Christian gentleman that the quarrel is for ever at an end on your side . 
So far , as to that next as to what I must again speak of as your infatuation . 
I understand it to have been confided to me , and to be known to no other person save your sister and yourself . 
Do I understand aright ? Helena answered in a low voice 'It is only known to us three who are here together . 
to erase it from your mind . 
So much the more weight shall I attach to the pledge I require from you , when it is unreservedly given . 
The young man twice or thrice essayed to speak , but failed . 
'Let me leave you with your sister , whom it is time you took home , said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'You will find me alone in my room by and by . 
'Pray do not leave us yet , Helena implored him . 
As it was , he laid a finger on his lips , and looked towards her brother . 
'I beg your forgiveness for my miserable lapse into a burst of passion . 
'Not mine , Neville , not mine . 
You know with whom forgiveness lies , as the highest attribute conceivable . 
Miss Helena , you and your brother are twin children . 
You came into this world with the same dispositions , and you passed your younger days together surrounded by the same adverse circumstances . 
What you have overcome in yourself , can you not overcome in him ? You see the rock that lies in his course . 
Who but you can keep him clear of it ? 'Who but you , sir ? replied Helena . 
As to mine but the less said of that commonplace commodity the better . 
Good night ! She took the hand he offered her , and gratefully and almost reverently raised it to her lips . 
'Tut ! said the Minor Canon softly , 'I am much overpaid ! and turned away . 
'I shall probably be asked to marry them , he reflected , 'and I would they were married and gone ! But this presses first . 
He debated principally whether he should write to young Drood , or whether he should speak to Jasper . 
The consciousness of being popular with the whole Cathedral establishment inclined him to the latter course , and the well timed sight of the lighted gatehouse decided him to take it . 
'I will strike while the iron is hot , he said , 'and see him now . 
I am sorry to have disturbed you . 
The glare of his eyes settled down into a look of recognition , and he moved a chair or two , to make a way to the fireside . 
'I was dreaming at a great rate , and am glad to be disturbed from an indigestive after dinner sleep . 
Not to mention that you are always welcome . 
In a word , Jasper , I want to establish peace between these two young fellows . 
A very perplexed expression took hold of Mr. Jasper's face a very perplexing expression too , for Mr. Crisparkle could make nothing of it . 
'How ? was Jasper's inquiry , in a low and slow voice , after a silence . 
'For the How I come to you . 
, and getting him to write you a short note , in his lively way , saying that he is willing to shake hands . 
I know what a good natured fellow he is , and what influence you have with him . 
And without in the least defending Mr. Neville , we must all admit that he was bitterly stung . 
Jasper turned that perplexed face towards the fire . 
'I know that you are not prepossessed in Mr. Neville's favour , the Minor Canon was going on , when Jasper stopped him 'You have cause to say so . 
I am not , indeed . 
'Undoubtedly and I admit his lamentable violence of temper , though I hope he and I will get the better of it between us . 
But I have exacted a very solemn promise from him as to his future demeanour towards your nephew , if you do kindly interpose and I am sure he will keep it . 
'You are always responsible and trustworthy , Mr. Crisparkle . 
Do you really feel sure that you can answer for him so confidently ? 'I do . 
The perplexed and perplexing look vanished . 
'Then you relieve my mind of a great dread , and a heavy weight , said Jasper 'I will do it . 
Mr. Crisparkle , delighted by the swiftness and completeness of his success , acknowledged it in the handsomest terms . 
'I will do it , repeated Jasper , 'for the comfort of having your guarantee against my vague and unfounded fears . 
You will laugh but do you keep a Diary ? 'A line for a day not more . 
You will laugh at this entry you will guess when it was made Past midnight . 
All my efforts are vain . 
The demoniacal passion of this Neville Landless , his strength in his fury , and his savage rage for the destruction of its object , appal me . 
So profound is the impression , that twice since I have gone into my dear boy's room , to assure myself of his sleeping safely , and not lying dead in his blood . 
'Here is another entry next morning Ned up and away . 
Light hearted and unsuspicious as ever . 
He laughed when I cautioned him , and said he was as good a man as Neville Landless any day . 
I told him that might be , but he was not as bad a man . 
He continued to make light of it , but I travelled with him as far as I could , and left him most unwillingly . 
I am unable to shake off these dark intangible presentiments of evil if feelings founded upon staring facts are to be so called . 
'Again and again , said Jasper , in conclusion , twirling the leaves of the book before putting it by , 'I have relapsed into these moods , as other entries show . 
But I have now your assurance at my back , and shall put it in my book , and make it an antidote to my black humours . 
'Such an antidote , I hope , returned Mr. Crisparkle , 'as will induce you before long to consign the black humours to the flames . 
You remember objecting to a word I used , as being too strong ? It was a stronger word than any in my Diary . 
Try the antidote , rejoined Mr. Crisparkle 'and may it give you a brighter and better view of the case ! We will discuss it no more now . 
I have to thank you for myself , thank you sincerely . 
'You shall find , said Jasper , as they shook hands , 'that I will not do the thing you wish me to do , by halves . 
I will take care that Ned , giving way at all , shall give way thoroughly . 
'Look here , dear old boy . 
, and let there be only we three , and let us shake hands all round there and then , and say no more about it . 
'My dear Jack , 'Ever your most affectionate , 'EDWIN DROOD . 
S. Love to Miss Pussy at the next music lesson . 
'You expect Mr. Neville , then ? said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'I count upon his coming , said Mr. Jasper . 
The westering sun bestowed bright glances on it , and the south west wind blew into it unimpeded . 
No. Coy Conveyancing would not come to Mr. Grewgious . 
She was wooed , not won , and they went their several ways . 
So , by chance , he had found his niche . 
, and had settled down with his snuffers for the rest of his life under the dry vine and fig tree of P. J. T. , who planted in seventeen forty seven . 
Many accounts and account books , many files of correspondence , and several strong boxes , garnished Mr. Grewgious's room . 
They can scarcely be represented as having lumbered it , so conscientious and precise was their orderly arrangement . 
The apprehension of dying suddenly , and leaving one fact or one figure with any incompleteness or obscurity attaching to it , would have stretched Mr. Grewgious stone dead any day . 
The largest fidelity to a trust was the life blood of the man . 
There are sorts of life blood that course more quickly , more gaily , more attractively but there is no better sort in circulation . 
There was no luxury in his room . 
Even its comforts were limited to its being dry and warm , and having a snug though faded fireside . 
Behind it , when standing thus on the defensive , was a closet , usually containing something good to drink . 
An outer room was the clerk's room Mr. Grewgious's sleeping room was across the common stair and he held some not empty cellarage at the bottom of the common stair . 
As Mr. Grewgious sat and wrote by his fire that afternoon , so did the clerk of Mr. Grewgious sit and write by HIS fire . 
'What of him ? 'Has called , said Bazzard . 
'You might have shown him in . 
'I am doing it , said Bazzard . 
The visitor came in accordingly . 
'Dear me ! said Mr. Grewgious , looking round his pair of office candles . 
'I thought you had called and merely left your name and gone . 
How do you do , Mr. Edwin ? Dear me , you're choking ! 'It's this fog , returned Edwin 'and it makes my eyes smart , like Cayenne pepper . 
'Is it really so bad as that ? Pray undo your wrappers . 
It's fortunate I have so good a fire but Mr. Bazzard has taken care of me . 
'No I haven't , said Mr. Bazzard at the door . 
'Ah ! then it follows that I must have taken care of myself without observing it , said Mr. Grewgious . 
'Pray be seated in my chair . 
No. I beg ! Coming out of such an atmosphere , in MY chair . 
'I look , said Edwin , smiling , 'as if I had come to stop . 
By the by , cried Mr. Grewgious 'excuse my interrupting you do stop . 
The fog may clear in an hour or two . 
We can have dinner in from just across Holborn . 
You had better take your Cayenne pepper here than outside pray stop and dine . 
'You are very kind , said Edwin , glancing about him as though attracted by the notion of a new and relishing sort of gipsy party . 
'Not at all , said Mr. Grewgious 'YOU are very kind to join issue with a bachelor in chambers , and take pot luck . 
And I'll ask , said Mr. Grewgious , dropping his voice , and speaking with a twinkling eye , as if inspired with a bright thought 'I'll ask Bazzard . 
He mightn't like it else . 
'Dine presently with Mr. Drood and me . 
'If I am ordered to dine , of course I will , sir , was the gloomy answer . 
'Save the man ! cried Mr. Grewgious . 
'You're not ordered you're invited . 
'Thank you , sir , said Bazzard 'in that case I don't care if I do . 
And perhaps you wouldn't mind , said Mr. Grewgious , 'stepping over to the hotel in Furnival's , and asking them to send in materials for laying the cloth . 
These liberal directions Mr. Grewgious issued with his usual air of reading an inventory , or repeating a lesson , or doing anything else by rote . 
Bazzard , after drawing out the round table , withdrew to execute them . 
'I was a little delicate , you see , said Mr. Grewgious , in a lower tone , after his clerk's departure , 'about employing him in the foraging or commissariat department . 
Because he mightn't like it . 
'He seems to have his own way , sir , remarked Edwin . 
'His own way ? returned Mr. Grewgious . 
'O dear no ! Poor fellow , you quite mistake him . 
If he had his own way , he wouldn't be here . 
'I wonder where he would be ! Edwin thought . 
'Of attention ! said Mr. Grewgious . 
But his archness suddenly flying before the composed face and manner of his visitor , and only the fire remaining , he started and rubbed himself . 
'I have lately been down yonder , said Mr. Grewgious , rearranging his skirts 'and that was what I referred to , when I said I could tell you you are expected . 
'Indeed , sir ! Yes I knew that Pussy was looking out for me . 
'Do you keep a cat down there ? asked Mr. Grewgious . 
Edwin coloured a little as he explained 'I call Rosa Pussy . 
'O , really , said Mr. Grewgious , smoothing down his head 'that's very affable . 
Edwin glanced at his face , uncertain whether or no he seriously objected to the appellation . 
But Edwin might as well have glanced at the face of a clock . 
'A pet name , sir , he explained again . 
'Umps , said Mr. Grewgious , with a nod . 
But with such an extraordinary compromise between an unqualified assent and a qualified dissent , that his visitor was much disconcerted . 
'Did PRosa Edwin began by way of recovering himself . 
'PRosa ? repeated Mr. Grewgious . 
'I was going to say Pussy , and changed my mind did she tell you anything about the Landlesses ? 'No , said Mr. Grewgious . 
'What is the Landlesses ? An estate ? A villa ? A farm ? 'A brother and sister . 
The sister is at the Nuns' House , and has become a great friend of P 'PRosa's , Mr. Grewgious struck in , with a fixed face . 
'She is a strikingly handsome girl , sir , and I thought she might have been described to you , or presented to you perhaps ? 'Neither , said Mr. Grewgious . 
Bazzard returned , accompanied by two waiters an immovable waiter , and a flying waiter and the three brought in with them as much fog as gave a new roar to the fire . 
The flying waiter then highly polished all the glasses he had brought , and the immovable waiter looked through them . 
It was like a highly finished miniature painting representing My Lords of the Circumlocution Department , Commandership in Chief of any sort , Government . 
It was quite an edifying little picture to be hung on the line in the National Gallery . 
As the fog had been the proximate cause of this sumptuous repast , so the fog served for its general sauce . 
To hear the out door clerks sneezing , wheezing , and beating their feet on the gravel was a zest far surpassing Doctor Kitchener's . 
To bid , with a shiver , the unfortunate flying waiter shut the door before he had opened it , was a condiment of a profounder flavour than Harvey . 
, by some seconds and always lingering after he and the tray had disappeared , like Macbeth's leg when accompanying him off the stage with reluctance to the assassination of Duncan . 
, and danced out gaily . 
Externally , Mr. Grewgious showed no signs of being mellowed by these glowing vintages . 
Neither was his manner influenced . 
'Bazzard ! said Mr. Grewgious , suddenly turning to him . 
'I follow you , sir , returned Bazzard who had done his work of consuming meat and drink in a workmanlike manner , though mostly in speechlessness . 
In all these movements he was closely followed by the eyes of Edwin , as if that young gentleman expected to see the thorn in action . 
It was not produced , however , and Mr. Bazzard merely said 'I follow you , sir , and I thank you . 
But I put Bazzard first . 
He mightn't like it else . 
This was said with a mysterious wink or what would have been a wink , if , in Mr. Grewgious's hands , it could have been quick enough . 
So Edwin winked responsively , without the least idea what he meant by doing so . 
'And now , said Mr. Grewgious , 'I devote a bumper to the fair and fascinating Miss Rosa . 
Bazzard , the fair and fascinating Miss Rosa ! 'I follow you , sir , said Bazzard , 'and I pledge you ! 'And so do I ! said Edwin . 
, that I could draw a picture of a true lover's state of mind , to night . 
'Let us follow you , sir , said Bazzard , 'and have the picture . 
Edwin will correct it where it's wrong , resumed Mr. Grewgious , 'and will throw in a few touches from the life . 
I dare say it is wrong in many particulars , and wants many touches from the life , for I was born a Chip , and have neither soft sympathies nor soft experiences . 
Well ! I hazard the guess that the true lover's mind is completely permeated by the beloved object of his affections . 
I hazard the guess that her dear name is precious to him , cannot be heard or repeated without emotion , and is preserved sacred . 
If he has any distinguishing appellation of fondness for her , it is reserved for her , and is not for common ears . 
I beg , therefore , to be understood as foregoing the bird's nest . 
Which , to the best of my belief , is not the case . 
Edwin had turned red and turned white , as certain points of this picture came into the light . 
He now sat looking at the fire , and bit his lip . 
'The speculations of an Angular man , resumed Mr. Grewgious , still sitting and speaking exactly as before , 'are probably erroneous on so globular a topic . 
, that there can be no coolness , no lassitude , no doubt , no indifference , no half fire and half smoke state of mind , in a real lover . 
'I should say , sir , stammered Edwin , 'as you refer the question to me 'Yes , said Mr. Grewgious , 'I refer it to you , as an authority . 
'Likely so , assented Mr. Grewgious , 'likely so . 
I am a hard man in the grain . 
'His responsibility is very great , though , said Mr. Grewgious at length , with his eyes on the fire . 
Edwin nodded assent , with HIS eyes on the fire . 
'And let him be sure that he trifles with no one , said Mr. Grewgious 'neither with himself , nor with any other . 
Edwin bit his lip again , and still sat looking at the fire . 
'He must not make a plaything of a treasure . 
Woe betide him if he does ! Let him take that well to heart , said Mr. Grewgious . 
in the way in which he now shook his right forefinger at the live coals in the grate , and again fell silent . 
I'll help Bazzard too , though he IS asleep . 
He mightn't like it else . 
He helped them both , and helped himself , and drained his glass , and stood it bottom upward on the table , as though he had just caught a bluebottle in it . 
'And now , Mr. Edwin , he proceeded , wiping his mouth and hands upon his handkerchief 'to a little piece of business . 
You received from me , the other day , a certified copy of Miss Rosa's father's will . 
You knew its contents before , but you received it from me as a matter of business . 
I should have sent it to Mr. Jasper , but for Miss Rosa's wishing it to come straight to you , in preference . 
You received it ? 'Quite safely , sir . 
'You should have acknowledged its receipt , said Mr. Grewgious 'business being business all the world over . 
However , you did not . 
'I meant to have acknowledged it when I first came in this evening , sir . 
'Not a business like acknowledgment , returned Mr. Grewgious 'however , let that pass . 
Favour me with your attention , half a minute . 
With this in his hand , he returned to his chair . 
As he held it up for the young man to see , his hand trembled . 
Edwin , this rose of diamonds and rubies delicately set in gold , was a ring belonging to Miss Rosa's mother . 
It was removed from her dead hand , in my presence , with such distracted grief as I hope it may never be my lot to contemplate again . 
Hard man as I am , I am not hard enough for that . 
See how bright these stones shine ! opening the case . 
, I might imagine that the lasting beauty of these stones was almost cruel . 
He closed the case again as he spoke . 
'This ring was given to the young lady who was drowned so early in her beautiful and happy career , by her husband , when they first plighted their faith to one another . 
It was he who removed it from her unconscious hand , and it was he who , when his death drew very near , placed it in mine . 
Failing those desired results , it was to remain in my possession . 
Some trouble was in the young man's face , and some indecision was in the action of his hand , as Mr. Grewgious , looking steadfastly at him , gave him the ring . 
'Your placing it on her finger , said Mr. Grewgious , 'will be the solemn seal upon your strict fidelity to the living and the dead . 
You are going to her , to make the last irrevocable preparations for your marriage . 
The young man took the little case , and placed it in his breast . 
'Bazzard ! said Mr. Grewgious , harder than ever . 
'I follow you , sir , said Bazzard , 'and I have been following you . 
'In discharge of a trust , I have handed Mr. Edwin Drood a ring of diamonds and rubies . 
You see ? Edwin reproduced the little case , and opened it and Bazzard looked into it . 
'I follow you both , sir , returned Bazzard , 'and I witness the transaction . 
Evidently anxious to get away and be alone , Edwin Drood now resumed his outer clothing , muttering something about time and appointments . 
, but he went out into it and Bazzard , after his manner , 'followed' him . 
Mr. Grewgious , left alone , walked softly and slowly to and fro , for an hour and more . 
He was restless to night , and seemed dispirited . 
'I hope I have done right , he said . 
'The appeal to him seemed necessary . 
It was hard to lose the ring , and yet it must have gone from me very soon . 
He closed the empty little drawer with a sigh , and shut and locked the escritoire , and came back to the solitary fireside . 
'Her ring , he went on . 
'Will it come back to me ? My mind hangs about her ring very uneasily to night . 
Mr. Grewgious crossed the staircase to his raw and foggy bedroom , and was soon ready for bed . 
Dimly catching sight of his face in the misty looking glass , he held his candle to it for a moment . 
'A likely some one , YOU , to come into anybody's thoughts in such an aspect ! he exclaimed . 
He likes to see a stray face or two looking in through the railings , and perhaps reading his inscription . 
Should he meet a stranger coming from the churchyard with a quick step , he is morally convinced that the stranger is 'with a blush retiring , as monumentally directed . 
Mr. Sapsea's importance has received enhancement , for he has become Mayor of Cloisterham . 
Without mayors , and many of them , it cannot be disputed that the whole framework of society Mr. Sapsea is confident that he invented that forcible figure would fall to pieces . 
Mayors have been knighted for 'going up' with addresses explosive machines intrepidly discharging shot and shell into the English Grammar . 
Mr. Sapsea may 'go up' with an address . 
Rise , Sir Thomas Sapsea ! Of such is the salt of the earth . 
Mr. Sapsea has improved the acquaintance of Mr. Jasper , since their first meeting to partake of port , epitaph , backgammon , beef , and salad . 
In short , he rendered it pretty clear that Providence made a distinct mistake in originating so small a nation of hearts of oak , and so many other verminous peoples . 
Mr. Sapsea makes his obeisance , and is instantly stricken far more ecclesiastical than any Archbishop of York or Canterbury . 
'You are evidently going to write a book about us , Mr. Jasper , quoth the Dean 'to write a book about us . 
Well ! We are very ancient , and we ought to make a good book . 
We are not so richly endowed in possessions as in age but perhaps you will put THAT in your book , among other things , and call attention to our wrongs . 
Mr. Tope , as in duty bound , is greatly entertained by this . 
'I really have no intention at all , sir , replies Jasper , 'of turning author or archaeologist . 
It is but a whim of mine . 
And even for my whim , Mr. Sapsea here is more accountable than I am . 
'How so , Mr. Mayor ? says the Dean , with a nod of good natured recognition of his Fetch . 
And then falls to studying his original in minute points of detail . 
'Durdles , Mr. Tope hints . 
'Ay ! the Dean echoes 'Durdles , Durdles ! 'The truth is , sir , explains Jasper , 'that my curiosity in the man was first really stimulated by Mr. Sapsea . 
You would not be surprised by this , Mr. Dean , if you had seen Mr. Sapsea deal with him in his own parlour , as I did . 
'O ! cries Sapsea , picking up the ball thrown to him with ineffable complacency and pomposity 'yes , yes . 
The Very Reverend the Dean refers to that ? Yes . 
I happened to bring Durdles and Mr. Jasper together . 
I regard Durdles as a Character . 
'A character , Mr. Sapsea , that with a few skilful touches you turn inside out , says Jasper . 
'Nay , not quite that , returns the lumbering auctioneer . 
'I may have a little influence over him , perhaps and a little insight into his character , perhaps . 
The Very Reverend the Dean will please to bear in mind that I have seen the world . 
Here Mr. Sapsea gets a little behind the Dean , to inspect his coat buttons . 
'I will take it upon myself , sir , observes Sapsea loftily , 'to answer for Mr. Jasper's neck . 
I will tell Durdles to be careful of it . 
He will mind what I say . 
How is it at present endangered ? he inquires , looking about him with magnificent patronage . 
'Only by my making a moonlight expedition with Durdles among the tombs , vaults , towers , and ruins , returns Jasper . 
'You remember suggesting , when you brought us together , that , as a lover of the picturesque , it might be worth my while ? 'I remember ! replies the auctioneer . 
And the solemn idiot really believes that he does remember . 
'Profiting by your hint , pursues Jasper , 'I have had some day rambles with the extraordinary old fellow , and we are to make a moonlight hole and corner exploration to night . 
'And here he is , says the Dean . 
Durdles with his dinner bundle in his hand , is indeed beheld slouching towards them . 
Slouching nearer , and perceiving the Dean , he pulls off his hat , and is slouching away with it under his arm , when Mr. Sapsea stops him . 
'Mind you take care of my friend , is the injunction Mr. Sapsea lays upon him . 
'What friend o' yourn is dead ? asks Durdles . 
'No orders has come in for any friend o' yourn . 
'I mean my live friend there . 
'O ! him ? says Durdles . 
'He can take care of himself , can Mister Jarsper . 
'But do you take care of him too , says Sapsea . 
surlily surveys from head to foot . 
'With submission to his Reverence the Dean , if you'll mind what concerns you , Mr. Sapsea , Durdles he'll mind what concerns him . 
'You're out of temper , says Mr. Sapsea , winking to the company to observe how smoothly he will manage him . 
'My friend concerns me , and Mr. Jasper is my friend . 
And you are my friend . 
'Don't you get into a bad habit of boasting , retorts Durdles , with a grave cautionary nod . 
'You are out of temper , says Sapsea again reddening , but again sinking to the company . 
'I own to it , returns Durdles 'I don't like liberties . 
Mr. Sapsea winks a third wink to the company , as who should say 'I think you will agree with me that I have settled HIS business and stalks out of the controversy . 
Why does he move so softly to night ? No outward reason is apparent for it . 
Likely enough , the two think little of that now , being alive , and perhaps merry . 
Curious , to make a guess at the two or say one of the two ! 'Ho ! Durdles ! The light moves , and he appears with it at the door . 
'Are you ready ? 'I am ready , Mister Jarsper . 
Let the old uns come out if they dare , when we go among their tombs . 
My spirit is ready for 'em . 
'Do you mean animal spirits , or ardent ? 'The one's the t'other , answers Durdles , 'and I mean 'em both . 
Surely an unaccountable sort of expedition , therefore ! ''Ware that there mound by the yard gate , Mister Jarsper . 
What is it ? 'Lime . 
Mr. Jasper stops , and waits for him to come up , for he lags behind . 
'What you call quick lime ? 'Ay ! says Durdles 'quick enough to eat your boots . 
With a little handy stirring , quick enough to eat your bones . 
They go on , presently passing the red windows of the Travellers' Twopenny , and emerging into the clear moonlight of the Monks' Vineyard . 
This crossed , they come to Minor Canon Corner of which the greater part lies in shadow until the moon shall rise higher in the sky . 
The sound of a closing house door strikes their ears , and two men come out . 
These are Mr. Crisparkle and Neville . 
Jasper , with a strange and sudden smile upon his face , lays the palm of his hand upon the breast of Durdles , stopping him where he stands . 
Jasper and Durdles would have turned this wall in another instant but , stopping so short , stand behind it . 
'Those two are only sauntering , Jasper whispers 'they will go out into the moonlight soon . 
Let us keep quiet here , or they will detain us , or want to join us , or what not . 
Durdles nods assent , and falls to munching some fragments from his bundle . 
Jasper folds his arms upon the top of the wall , and , with his chin resting on them , watches . 
A sense of destructive power is so expressed in his face , that even Durdles pauses in his munching , and looks at him , with an unmunched something in his cheek . 
Meanwhile Mr. Crisparkle and Neville walk to and fro , quietly talking together . 
What they say , cannot be heard consecutively but Mr. Jasper has already distinguished his own name more than once . 
'This is the first day of the week , Mr. Crisparkle can be distinctly heard to observe , as they turn back 'and the last day of the week is Christmas Eve . 
'You may be certain of me , sir . 
The echoes were favourable at those points , but as the two approach , the sound of their talking becomes confused again . 
The word 'confidence , shattered by the echoes , but still capable of being pieced together , is uttered by Mr. Crisparkle . 
As they draw still nearer , this fragment of a reply is heard 'Not deserved yet , but shall be , sir . 
As they turn away again , Jasper again hears his own name , in connection with the words from Mr. Crisparkle 'Remember that I said I answered for you confidently . 
Then the sound of their talk becomes confused again they halting for a little while , and some earnest action on the part of Neville succeeding . 
When they move once more , Mr. Crisparkle is seen to look up at the sky , and to point before him . 
They then slowly disappear passing out into the moonlight at the opposite end of the Corner . 
It is not until they are gone , that Mr. Jasper moves . 
But then he turns to Durdles , and bursts into a fit of laughter . 
Then Durdles bolts the something , as if desperately resigning himself to indigestion . 
Among those secluded nooks there is very little stir or movement after dark . 
There is little enough in the high tide of the day , but there is next to none at night . 
One might fancy that the tide of life was stemmed by Mr. Jasper's own gatehouse . 
The murmur of the tide is heard beyond but no wave passes the archway , over which his lamp burns red behind his curtain , as if the building were a Lighthouse . 
They enter , locking themselves in , descend the rugged steps , and are down in the Crypt . 
The lantern is not wanted , for the moonlight strikes in at the groined windows , bare of glass , the broken frames for which cast patterns on the ground . 
The heavy pillars which support the roof engender masses of black shade , but between them there are lanes of light . 
They are to ascend the great Tower . 
On the steps by which they rise to the Cathedral , Durdles pauses for new store of breath . 
The steps are very dark , but out of the darkness they can see the lanes of light they have traversed . 
Durdles seats himself upon a step . 
Mr. Jasper seats himself upon another . 
soon intimates that the cork has been taken out but this is not ascertainable through the sense of sight , since neither can descry the other . 
And yet , in talking , they turn to one another , as though their faces could commune together . 
'This is good stuff , Mister Jarsper ! 'It is very good stuff , I hope . 
I bought it on purpose . 
'They don't show , you see , the old uns don't , Mister Jarsper ! 'It would be a more confused world than it is , if they could . 
'But do you think there may be Ghosts of other things , though not of men and women ? 'What things ? Flower beds and watering pots ? horses and harness ? 'No . 
'What cries do you mean ? Chairs to mend ? 'No . 
Now I'll tell you , Mr. Jarsper . 
Wait a bit till I put the bottle right . 
Here the cork is evidently taken out again , and replaced again . 
At length I gave 'em the slip , and turned in here . 
And here I fell asleep . 
And what woke me ? The ghost of a cry . 
That was MY last Christmas Eve . 
'What do you mean ? is the very abrupt , and , one might say , fierce retort . 
'I mean that I made inquiries everywhere about , and , that no living ears but mine heard either that cry or that howl . 
So I say they was both ghosts though why they came to me , I've never made out . 
'I thought you were another kind of man , says Jasper , scornfully . 
'So I thought myself , answers Durdles with his usual composure 'and yet I was picked out for it . 
Jasper had risen suddenly , when he asked him what he meant , and he now says , 'Come we shall freeze here lead the way . 
Here , the moonlight is so very bright again that the colours of the nearest stained glass window are thrown upon their faces . 
'That and the bottle are enough for you to carry , he says , giving it to Durdles 'hand your bundle to me I am younger and longer winded than you . 
Durdles hesitates for a moment between bundle and bottle but gives the preference to the bottle as being by far the better company , and consigns the dry weight to his fellow explorer . 
Their way lies through strange places . 
contemplates the scene , and especially that stillest part of it which the Cathedral overshadows . 
But he contemplates Durdles quite as curiously , and Durdles is by times conscious of his watchful eyes . 
Only by times , because Durdles is growing drowsy . 
As aeronauts lighten the load they carry , when they wish to rise , similarly Durdles has lightened the wicker bottle in coming up . 
Snatches of sleep surprise him on his legs , and stop him in his talk . 
Such is his state when they begin to come down . 
And as aeronauts make themselves heavier when they wish to descend , similarly Durdles charges himself with more liquid from the wicker bottle , that he may come down the better . 
'If you will have it so , or must have it so , replies Jasper , 'I'll not leave you here . 
Take them , while I walk to and fro . 
Durdles is asleep at once and in his sleep he dreams a dream . 
It is not much of a dream , considering the vast extent of the domains of dreamland , and their wonderful productions it is only remarkable for being unusually restless and unusually real . 
He dreams of lying there , asleep , and yet counting his companion's footsteps as he walks to and fro . 
He dreams that the footsteps die away into distance of time and of space , and that something touches him , and that something falls from his hand . 
'Holloa ! Durdles cries out , unmeaningly alarmed . 
'Awake at last ? says Jasper , coming up to him . 
'Do you know that your forties have stretched into thousands ? 'No . 
'What's the time ? 'Hark ! The bells are going in the Tower ! They strike four quarters , and then the great bell strikes . 
'Two ! cries Durdles , scrambling up 'why didn't you try to wake me , Mister Jarsper ? 'I did . 
I might as well have tried to wake the dead your own family of dead , up in the corner there . 
'Did you touch me ? 'Touch you ! Yes . 
As Durdles recalls that touching something in his dream , he looks down on the pavement , and sees the key of the crypt door lying close to where he himself lay . 
'I dropped you , did I ? he says , picking it up , and recalling that part of his dream . 
As he gathers himself up again into an upright position , or into a position as nearly upright as he ever maintains , he is again conscious of being watched by his companion . 
'Well ? says Jasper , smiling , 'are you quite ready ? Pray don't hurry . 
'Let me get my bundle right , Mister Jarsper , and I'm with you . 
As he ties it afresh , he is once more conscious that he is very narrowly observed . 
'What do you suspect me of , Mister Jarsper ? he asks , with drunken displeasure . 
'Let them as has any suspicions of Durdles name 'em . 
'I've no suspicions of you , my good Mr. Durdles but I have suspicions that my bottle was filled with something stiffer than either of us supposed . 
And I also have suspicions , Jasper adds , taking it from the pavement and turning it bottom upwards , 'that it's empty . 
Durdles condescends to laugh at this . 
Continuing to chuckle when his laugh is over , as though remonstrant with himself on his drinking powers , he rolls to the door and unlocks it . 
They both pass out , and Durdles relocks it , and pockets his key . 
'A thousand thanks for a curious and interesting night , says Jasper , giving him his hand 'you can make your own way home ? 'I should think so ! answers Durdles . 
'If you was to offer Durdles the affront to show him his way home , he wouldn't go home . 
Durdles wouldn't go home till morning And THEN Durdles wouldn't go home , Durdles wouldn't . 
This with the utmost defiance . 
'Good night , Mister Jarsper . 
Each is turning his own way , when a sharp whistle rends the silence , and the jargon is yelped out Widdy widdy wen ! I ket ches Im out ar ter ten . 
'What ! Is that baby devil on the watch there ! cries Jasper in a fury so quickly roused , and so violent , that he seems an older devil himself . 
But Deputy is not to be so easily brought across . 
There is nothing for it but to drop him . 
'He followed us to night , when we first came here ! 'Yer lie , I didn't ! replies Deputy , in his one form of polite contradiction . 
'He has been prowling near us ever since ! 'Yer lie , I haven't , returns Deputy . 
'I'd only jist come out for my 'elth when I see you two a coming out of the Kin freederel . 
Mr. Jasper goes to his gatehouse , brooding . 
And thus , as everything comes to an end , the unaccountable expedition comes to an end for the time . 
CHAPTER XIII BOTH AT THEIR BEST MISS TWINKLETON'S establishment was about to undergo a serene hush . 
The Christmas recess was at hand . 
A noticeable relaxation of discipline had for some few days pervaded the Nuns' House . 
Club suppers had occurred in the bedrooms , and a dressed tongue had been carved with a pair of scissors , and handed round with the curling tongs . 
took her steel drops daily . 
Nor were these the only tokens of dispersal . 
, and a surprising amount of packing took place , out of all proportion to the amount packed . 
Largess , in the form of odds and ends of cold cream and pomatum , and also of hairpins , was freely distributed among the attendants . 
On charges of inviolable secrecy , confidences were interchanged respecting golden youth of England expected to call , 'at home , on the first opportunity . 
did indeed profess that she , for her part , acknowledged such homage by making faces at the golden youth but this young lady was outvoted by an immense majority . 
This compact invariably broke down , and all the young ladies went to sleep very soon , and got up very early . 
, where glasses of white wine and plates of cut pound cake were discovered on the table . 
From horizon to zenith all was COULEUR DE ROSE , for all was redolent of our relations and friends . 
The handmaidens of the establishment , in their best caps , then handed the trays , and the young ladies sipped and crumbled , and the bespoken coaches began to choke the street . 
This missive she handed with an air as if it had not the least connexion with the bill , but were something in the nature of a delicate and joyful surprise . 
And yet her latest friendship had a blank place in it of which she could not fail to be sensible . 
Why she so avoided it , was mysterious to Rosa , but she perfectly perceived the fact . 
But for the fact , she might have relieved her own little perplexed heart of some of its doubts and hesitations , by taking Helena into her confidence . 
, and waving farewells to the departing coaches , as if she represented the spirit of rosy youth abiding in the place to keep it bright and warm in its desertion . 
If Rosebud in her bower now waited Edwin Drood's coming with an uneasy heart , Edwin for his part was uneasy too . 
That gentleman's steady convictions of what was right and what was wrong in such a case as his , were neither to be frowned aside nor laughed aside . 
They would not be moved . 
But that serious putting him on his truth to the living and the dead had brought him to a check . 
He must either give the ring to Rosa , or he must take it back . 
'I will be guided by what she says , and by how we get on , was his decision , walking from the gatehouse to the Nuns' House . 
'Whatever comes of it , I will bear his words in mind , and try to be true to the living and the dead . 
Rosa was dressed for walking . 
It was a bright , frosty day , and Miss Twinkleton had already graciously sanctioned fresh air . 
I have been thinking about it for a long , long time . 
'I want to be serious with you too , Rosa dear . 
I mean to be serious and earnest . 
He called her Pussy no more . 
'That's a dear good boy ! Eddy , let us be courageous . 
Let us change to brother and sister from this day forth . 
'Never be husband and wife ? 'Never ! Neither spoke again for a little while . 
'No , nor with you , dear , she returned , with pathetic earnestness . 
'That sprung up between us . 
You are not truly happy in our engagement I am not truly happy in it . 
O , I am so sorry , so sorry ! And there she broke into tears . 
'I am deeply sorry too , Rosa . 
And then we should be angry , besides . 
Another silence fell upon them . 
And I can always like you now , and your sister will not tease or trifle with you . 
I often did when I was not your sister , and I beg your pardon for it . 
'Don't let us come to that , Rosa or I shall want more pardoning than I like to think of . 
'No , indeed , Eddy you are too hard , my generous boy , upon yourself . 
Let us sit down , brother , on these ruins , and let me tell you how it was with us . 
I think I know , for I have considered about it very much since you were here last time . 
You liked me , didn't you ? You thought I was a nice little thing ? 'Everybody thinks that , Rosa . 
'Do they ? She knitted her brow musingly for a moment , and then flashed out with the bright little induction 'Well , but say they do . 
Surely it was not enough that you should think of me only as other people did now , was it ? The point was not to be got over . 
'And that is just what I mean that is just how it was with us , said Rosa . 
'You liked me very well , and you had grown used to me , and had grown used to the idea of our being married . 
He had always patronised her , in his superiority to her share of woman's wit . 
Unless it was , I might not be bold enough to say it . 
Only , the difference between us was , that by little and little there crept into my mind a habit of thinking about it , instead of dismissing it . 
My life is not so busy as yours , you see , and I have not so many things to think of . 
when all at once my guardian came down , to prepare for my leaving the Nuns' House . 
I tried to hint to him that I was not quite settled in my mind , but I hesitated and failed , and he didn't understand me . 
But he is a good , good man . 
He put his arm about her waist , and they walked by the river side together . 
'Your guardian has spoken to me too , Rosa dear . 
I saw him before I left London . 
'Yes , I should have spoken I should have put everything before you I came intending to do it . 
But I never could have spoken to you as you have spoken to me , Rosa . 
'Don't say you mean so coldly or unkindly , Eddy , please , if you can help it . 
'I mean so sensibly and delicately , so wisely and affectionately . 
'That's my dear brother ! She kissed his hand in a little rapture . 
'The dear girls will be dreadfully disappointed , added Rosa , laughing , with the dewdrops glistening in her bright eyes . 
'They have looked forward to it so , poor pets ! 'Ah ! but I fear it will be a worse disappointment to Jack , said Edwin Drood , with a start . 
'I never thought of Jack ! Her swift and intent look at him as he said the words could no more be recalled than a flash of lightning can . 
But it appeared as though she would have instantly recalled it , if she could for she looked down , confused , and breathed quickly . 
'You don't doubt its being a blow to Jack , Rosa ? She merely replied , and that evasively and hurriedly Why should she ? She had not thought about it . 
He seemed , to her , to have so little to do with it . 
She nodded twice or thrice , and her lips parted as if she would have assented . 
But she uttered no sound , and her breathing was no slower . 
'How shall I tell Jack ? said Edwin , ruminating . 
If he had been less occupied with the thought , he must have seen her singular emotion . 
'I never thought of Jack . 
It must be broken to him , before the town crier knows it . 
I dine with the dear fellow to morrow and next day Christmas Eve and Christmas Day but it would never do to spoil his feast days . 
He always worries about me , and moddley coddleys in the merest trifles . 
The news is sure to overset him . 
How on earth shall this be broken to Jack ? 'He must be told , I suppose ? said Rosa . 
'My dear Rosa ! who ought to be in our confidence , if not Jack ? 'My guardian promised to come down , if I should write and ask him . 
I am going to do so . 
Would you like to leave it to him ? 'A bright idea ! cried Edwin . 
He comes down , he goes to Jack , he relates what we have agreed upon , and he states our case better than we could . 
He has already spoken feelingly to you , he has already spoken feelingly to me , and he'll put the whole thing feelingly to Jack . 
That's it ! I am not a coward , Rosa , but to tell you a secret , I am a little afraid of Jack . 
'No , no ! you are not afraid of him ! cried Rosa , turning white , and clasping her hands . 
'Why , sister Rosa , sister Rosa , what do you see from the turret ? said Edwin , rallying her . 
'My dear girl ! 'You frightened me . 
'Most unintentionally , but I am as sorry as if I had meant to do it . 
Which and this is the secret I was going to tell you is another reason for your guardian's making the communication . 
Perhaps from her own very different point of view of 'Jack , she felt comforted and protected by the interposition of Mr. Grewgious between herself and him . 
almost a cruel satire on the loves , hopes , plans , of humanity , which are able to forecast nothing , and are so much brittle dust . 
Let them lie unspoken of , in his breast . 
However distinctly or indistinctly he entertained these thoughts , he arrived at the conclusion , Let them be . 
They walked on by the river . 
They began to speak of their separate plans . 
He would quicken his departure from England , and she would remain where she was , at least as long as Helena remained . 
It should be made clear in all quarters that she and Edwin were the best of friends . 
There had never been so serene an understanding between them since they were first affianced . 
The bright , frosty day declined as they walked and spoke together . 
The sun dipped in the river far behind them , and the old city lay red before them , as their walk drew to a close . 
It will be better done without my being by . 
Don't you think so ? 'Yes . 
'We know we have done right , Rosa ? 'Yes . 
'We know we are better so , even now ? 'And shall be far , far better so by and by . 
Still there was that lingering tenderness in their hearts towards the old positions they were relinquishing , that they prolonged their parting . 
'God bless you , dear ! Good bye ! 'God bless you , dear ! Good bye ! They kissed each other fervently . 
'Now , please take me home , Eddy , and let me be by myself . 
'Don't look round , Rosa , he cautioned her , as he drew her arm through his , and led her away . 
'Didn't you see Jack ? 'No ! Where ? 'Under the trees . 
He saw us , as we took leave of each other . 
Poor fellow ! he little thinks we have parted . 
Is he behind ? 'No . 
Yes , he is ! He has just passed out under the gateway . 
The dear , sympathetic old fellow likes to keep us in sight . 
I am afraid he will be bitterly disappointed ! She pulled hurriedly at the handle of the hoarse old bell , and the gate soon opened . 
CHAPTER XIV WHEN SHALL THESE THREE MEET AGAIN ? CHRISTMAS EVE in Cloisterham . 
To these , the striking of the Cathedral clock , and the cawing of the rooks from the Cathedral tower , are like voices of their nursery time . 
Lavish profusion is in the shops particularly in the articles of currants , raisins , spices , candied peel , and moist sugar . 
Public amusements are not wanting . 
In short , Cloisterham is up and doing though from this description the High School and Miss Twinkleton's are to be excluded . 
and only the handmaidens flutter occasionally in the windows of the latter . 
Three are to meet at the gatehouse to night . 
He then sets himself to clearing his table , to arranging his books , and to tearing up and burning his stray papers . 
This done , he turns to his wardrobe , selects a few articles of ordinary wear among them , change of stout shoes and socks for walking and packs these in a knapsack . 
This knapsack is new , and he bought it in the High Street yesterday . 
He also purchased , at the same time and at the same place , a heavy walking stick strong in the handle for the grip of the hand , and iron shod . 
He tries this , swings it , poises it , and lays it by , with the knapsack , on a window seat . 
By this time his arrangements are complete . 
'I chose it for its weight . 
'Much too heavy , Neville MUCH too heavy . 
'To rest upon in a long walk , sir ? 'Rest upon ? repeats Mr. Crisparkle , throwing himself into pedestrian form . 
'You don't rest upon it you merely balance with it . 
'I shall know better , with practice , sir . 
I have not lived in a walking country , you know . 
'True , says Mr. Crisparkle . 
'Get into a little training , and we will have a few score miles together . 
I should leave you nowhere now . 
Do you come back before dinner ? 'I think not , as we dine early . 
absolute confidence and ease Neville repairs to the Nuns' House , and requests that Miss Landless may be informed that her brother is there , by appointment . 
He waits at the gate , not even crossing the threshold for he is on his parole not to put himself in Rosa's way . 
His sister is at least as mindful of the obligation they have taken on themselves as he can be , and loses not a moment in joining him . 
They meet affectionately , avoid lingering there , and walk towards the upper inland country . 
'Had you not better avoid it , Neville ? You know that I can hear nothing . 
'You can hear , my dear , what Mr. Crisparkle has heard , and heard with approval . 
'Yes I can hear so much . 
'Well , it is this . 
I am not only unsettled and unhappy myself , but I am conscious of unsettling and interfering with other people . 
I have put this very gently to Mr. Crisparkle , for you know his self denying ways but still I have put it . 
'When to come back ? 'In a fortnight . 
'And going quite alone ? 'I am much better without company , even if there were any one but you to bear me company , my dear Helena . 
Crisparkle entirely agrees , you say ? 'Entirely . 
I am not sure but that at first he was inclined to think it rather a moody scheme , and one that might do a brooding mind harm . 
But we took a moonlight walk last Monday night , to talk it over at leisure , and I represented the case to him as it really is . 
I could hardly help meeting certain people walking together here , and that could do no good , and is certainly not the way to forget . 
A fortnight hence , that chance will probably be over , for the time and when it again arises for the last time , why , I can again go away . 
Farther , I really do feel hopeful of bracing exercise and wholesome fatigue . 
He yielded to my view of the matter , when convinced that I was honestly in earnest and so , with his full consent , I start to morrow morning . 
Early enough to be not only out of the streets , but out of hearing of the bells , when the good people go to church . 
Helena thinks it over , and thinks well of it . 
She is inclined to pity him , poor fellow , for going away solitary on the great Christmas festival but she feels it much more to the purpose to encourage him . 
And she does encourage him . 
He will write to her ? He will write to her every alternate day , and tell her all his adventures . 
Does he send clothes on in advance of him ? 'My dear Helena , no . 
Travel like a pilgrim , with wallet and staff . 
Up to this point he has been extremely cheerful . 
Perhaps , the having to carry his case with her , and therefore to present it in its brightest aspect , has roused his spirits . 
Perhaps , the having done so with success , is followed by a revulsion . 
As the day closes in , and the city lights begin to spring up before them , he grows depressed . 
'I wish I were not going to this dinner , Helena . 
'Dear Neville , is it worth while to care much about it ? Think how soon it will be over . 
'How soon it will be over ! he repeats gloomily . 
But I don't like it . 
There may be a moment's awkwardness , she cheeringly represents to him , but it can only last a moment . 
He is quite sure of himself . 
'I wish I felt as sure of everything else , as I feel of myself , he answers her . 
'How strangely you speak , dear ! What do you mean ? 'Helena , I don't know . 
I only know that I don't like it . 
What a strange dead weight there is in the air ! She calls his attention to those copperous clouds beyond the river , and says that the wind is rising . 
He scarcely speaks again , until he takes leave of her , at the gate of the Nuns' House . 
She does not immediately enter , when they have parted , but remains looking after him along the street . 
Twice he passes the gatehouse , reluctant to enter . 
At length , the Cathedral clock chiming one quarter , with a rapid turn he hurries in . 
And so HE goes up the postern stair . 
Edwin Drood passes a solitary day . 
Something of deeper moment than he had thought , has gone out of his life and in the silence of his own chamber he wept for it last night . 
That was a curious look of Rosa's when they parted at the gate . 
Did it mean that she saw below the surface of his thoughts , and down into their twilight depths ? Scarcely that , for it was a look of astonished and keen inquiry . 
He decides that he cannot understand it , though it was remarkably expressive . 
As he only waits for Mr. Grewgious now , and will depart immediately after having seen him , he takes a sauntering leave of the ancient city and its neighbourhood . 
He recalls the time when Rosa and he walked here or there , mere children , full of the dignity of being engaged . 
Poor children ! he thinks , with a pitying sadness . 
Finding that his watch has stopped , he turns into the jeweller's shop , to have it wound and set . 
The jeweller is knowing on the subject of a bracelet , which he begs leave to submit , in a general and quite aimless way . 
a young bride , to perfection especially if of a rather diminutive style of beauty . 
A ring of a very responsible appearance . 
With the date of their wedding day engraved inside , several gentlemen have preferred it to any other kind of memento . 
The rings are as coldly viewed as the bracelet . 
Edwin tells the tempter that he wears no jewellery but his watch and chain , which were his father's and his shirt pin . 
that might not apply to all times , though applying to the present time . 
'Twenty minutes past two , Mr. Drood , I set your watch at . 
Let me recommend you not to let it run down , sir . 
His wonted carelessness is replaced by a wistful looking at , and dwelling upon , all the old landmarks . 
He will soon be far away , and may never see them again , he thinks . 
Poor youth ! Poor youth ! As dusk draws on , he paces the Monks' Vineyard . 
He strikes into that path , and walks up to the wicket . 
'Are you ill ? 'No , deary , she answers , without looking at him , and with no departure from her strange blind stare . 
'Are you blind ? 'No , deary . 
He straightens himself , recoils a step , and looks down at her in a dread amazement for he seems to know her . 
'Good Heaven ! he thinks , next moment . 
'Like Jack that night ! As he looks down at her , she looks up at him , and whimpers 'My lungs is weakly my lungs is dreffle bad . 
Poor me , poor me , my cough is rattling dry ! and coughs in confirmation horribly . 
'Where do you come from ? 'Come from London , deary . 
'Where are you going to ? 'Back to London , deary . 
I came here , looking for a needle in a haystack , and I ain't found it . 
Look'ee , deary give me three and sixpence , and don't you be afeard for me . 
I'll get back to London then , and trouble no one . 
Ah , me ! It's slack , it's slack , and times is very bad ! but I can make a shift to live by it . 
'Do you eat opium ? 'Smokes it , she replies with difficulty , still racked by her cough . 
'Give me three and sixpence , and I'll lay it out well , and get back . 
If you don't give me three and sixpence , don't give me a brass farden . 
And if you do give me three and sixpence , deary , I'll tell you something . 
He counts the money from his pocket , and puts it in her hand . 
She instantly clutches it tight , and rises to her feet with a croaking laugh of satisfaction . 
'Bless ye ! Hark'ee , dear genl'mn . 
What's your Chris'en name ? 'Edwin . 
'Don't sweethearts call it so ? she asks , pondering . 
'How should I know ? 'Haven't you a sweetheart , upon your soul ? 'None . 
She is moving away , with another 'Bless ye , and thank'ee , deary ! when he adds 'You were to tell me something you may as well do so . 
'So I was , so I was . 
You be thankful that your name ain't Ned . 
He looks at her quite steadily , as he asks 'Why ? 'Because it's a bad name to have just now . 
'How a bad name ? 'A threatened name . 
'The proverb says that threatened men live long , he tells her , lightly . 
'Then Ned so threatened is he , wherever he may be while I am a talking to you , deary should live to all eternity ! replies the woman . 
This is not an inspiriting close to a dull day . 
Alone , in a sequestered place , surrounded by vestiges of old time and decay , it rather has a tendency to call a shudder into being . 
, as an odd coincidence , to morrow of course only as a coincidence , and not as anything better worth remembering . 
Still , it holds to him , as many things much better worth remembering never did . 
There is some solemn echo of them even in the Cathedral chime , which strikes a sudden surprise to his heart as he turns in under the archway of the gatehouse . 
And so HE goes up the postern stair . 
John Jasper passes a more agreeable and cheerful day than either of his guests . 
Having no music lessons to give in the holiday season , his time is his own , but for the Cathedral services . 
He is early among the shopkeepers , ordering little table luxuries that his nephew likes . 
His nephew will not be with him long , he tells his provision dealers , and so must be petted and made much of . 
Mr. Sapsea is by no means friendly towards the inflammable young spark . 
He says that his complexion is 'Un English . 
And when Mr. Sapsea has once declared anything to be Un English , he considers that thing everlastingly sunk in the bottomless pit . 
is of exactly that opinion . 
Mr. Jasper is in beautiful voice this day . 
In the pathetic supplication to have his heart inclined to keep this law , he quite astonishes his fellows by his melodious power . 
He has never sung difficult music with such skill and harmony , as in this day's Anthem . 
His nervous temperament is occasionally prone to take difficult music a little too quickly to day , his time is perfect . 
These results are probably attained through a grand composure of the spirits . 
But his composure is so noticeable , that Mr. Crisparkle speaks of it as they come out from Vespers . 
'I must thank you , Jasper , for the pleasure with which I have heard you to day . 
Beautiful ! Delightful ! You could not have so outdone yourself , I hope , without being wonderfully well . 
I hope so , if it is not too much to say . 
'One would think , Jasper , you had been trying a new medicine for that occasional indisposition of yours . 
'No , really ? That's well observed for I have . 
'Then stick to it , my good fellow , says Mr. Crisparkle , clapping him on the shoulder with friendly encouragement , 'stick to it . 
'I congratulate you , Mr. Crisparkle pursues , as they come out of the Cathedral , 'on all accounts . 
'What is it ? 'Well . 
We were speaking , the other evening , of my black humours . 
Mr. Crisparkle's face falls , and he shakes his head deploringly . 
'I said , you know , that I should make you an antidote to those black humours and you said you hoped I would consign them to the flames . 
'And I still hope so , Jasper . 
'With the best reason in the world ! I mean to burn this year's Diary at the year's end . 
'Because you ? Mr. Crisparkle brightens greatly as he thus begins . 
Because I feel that I have been out of sorts , gloomy , bilious , brain oppressed , whatever it may be . 
You said I had been exaggerative . 
Mr. Crisparkle's brightened face brightens still more . 
'I couldn't see it then , because I WAS out of sorts but I am in a healthier state now , and I acknowledge it with genuine pleasure . 
I made a great deal of a very little that's the fact . 
That was my case with the idea in question . 
So I shall burn the evidence of my case , when the book is full , and begin the next volume with a clearer vision . 
'This is better , says Mr. Crisparkle , stopping at the steps of his own door to shake hands , 'than I could have hoped . 
'Why , naturally , returns Jasper . 
'You had but little reason to hope that I should become more like yourself . 
However , I have got over that mope . 
Shall I wait , while you ask if Mr. Neville has left for my place ? If not , he and I may walk round together . 
You won't come in ? 'My company wait , said Jasper , with a smile . 
The Minor Canon disappears , and in a few moments returns . 
As he thought , Mr. Neville has not come back indeed , as he remembers now , Mr. Neville said he would probably go straight to the gatehouse . 
'Bad manners in a host ! says Jasper . 
Jasper nods , and laughs good night ! He retraces his steps to the Cathedral door , and turns down past it to the gatehouse . 
He sings , in a low voice and with delicate expression , as he walks along . 
It still seems as if a false note were not within his power to night , and as if nothing could hurry or retard him . 
For that brief time , his face is knitted and stern . 
But it immediately clears , as he resumes his singing , and his way . 
And so HE goes up the postern stair . 
The red light burns steadily all the evening in the lighthouse on the margin of the tide of busy life . 
Softened sounds and hum of traffic pass it and flow on irregularly into the lonely Precincts but very little else goes by , save violent rushes of wind . 
It comes on to blow a boisterous gale . 
, they are unusually dark to night . 
The darkness is augmented and confused , by flying dust from the earth , dry twigs from the trees , and great ragged fragments from the rooks' nests up in the tower . 
Not such power of wind has blown for many a winter night . 
Chimneys topple in the streets , and people hold to posts and corners , and to one another , to keep themselves upon their feet . 
Still , the red light burns steadily . 
Nothing is steady but the red light . 
All through the night the wind blows , and abates not . 
But early in the morning , when there is barely enough light in the east to dim the stars , it begins to lull . 
From that time , with occasional wild charges , like a wounded monster dying , it drops and sinks and at full daylight it is dead . 
Christmas morning though it be , it is necessary to send up workmen , to ascertain the extent of the damage done . 
Is he not with you ? 'No . 
He went down to the river last night , with Mr. Neville , to look at the storm , and has not been back . 
Call Mr. Neville ! 'He left this morning , early . 
'Left this morning early ? Let me in ! let me in ! There is no more looking up at the tower , now . 
All the assembled eyes are turned on Mr. Jasper , white , half dressed , panting , and clinging to the rail before the Minor Canon's house . 
As he wanted his breakfast by that time , having set forth on a crust of bread , he stopped at the next roadside tavern to refresh . 
However , Man , in the present case , was not critical , but took what entertainment he could get , and went on again after a longer rest than he needed . 
He decided in favour of this latter track , and pursued it with some toil the rise being steep , and the way worn into deep ruts . 
He was labouring along , when he became aware of some other pedestrians behind him . 
As they were coming up at a faster pace than his , he stood aside , against one of the high banks , to let them pass . 
But their manner was very curious . 
Only four of them passed . 
Other four slackened speed , and loitered as intending to follow him when he should go on . 
turned , and went back at a great rate . 
He looked at the four behind him , and he looked at the four before him . 
They all returned his look . 
The four in advance went on , constantly looking back the four in the rear came closing up . 
He stopped , as a last test and they all stopped . 
'Why do you attend upon me in this way ? he asked the whole body . 
'Are you a pack of thieves ? 'Don't answer him , said one of the number he did not see which . 
'Better be quiet ? repeated Neville . 
'Who said so ? Nobody replied . 
'It's good advice , whichever of you skulkers gave it , he went on angrily . 
'I will not submit to be penned in between four men there , and four men there . 
I wish to pass , and I mean to pass , those four in front . 
They were all standing still himself included . 
'Let him be ! said this man in a suppressed voice , as they struggled together on the grass . 
'Fair play ! His is the build of a girl to mine , and he's got a weight strapped to his back besides . 
We wouldn't have touched you if you hadn't forced us . 
We're going to take you round to the high road , anyhow , and you'll find help enough against thieves there , if you want it . 
'And what I recommend you for the present , is , don't talk , Mr. Landless . 
Bring that stick along , somebody else , and let's be moving ! Utterly bewildered , Neville stared around him and said not a word . 
The men who had turned back were among the group and its central figures were Mr. Jasper and Mr. Crisparkle . 
Neville's conductors took him up to the Minor Canon , and there released him , as an act of deference to that gentleman . 
'What is all this , sir ? What is the matter ? I feel as if I had lost my senses ! cried Neville , the group closing in around him . 
'Where is my nephew ? asked Mr. Jasper , wildly . 
'Not to be found ! cried Neville , aghast . 
'Stay , stay , said Mr. Crisparkle . 
Mr. Neville , you are confounded collect your thoughts it is of great importance that you should collect your thoughts attend to me . 
'I will try , sir , but I seem mad . 
'You left Mr. Jasper last night with Edwin Drood ? 'Yes . 
'At what hour ? 'Was it at twelve o'clock ? asked Neville , with his hand to his confused head , and appealing to Jasper . 
'Quite right , said Mr. Crisparkle 'the hour Mr. Jasper has already named to me . 
You went down to the river together ? 'Undoubtedly . 
To see the action of the wind there . 
'What followed ? How long did you stay there ? 'About ten minutes I should say not more . 
We then walked together to your house , and he took leave of me at the door . 
'Did he say that he was going down to the river again ? 'No . 
He said that he was going straight back . 
The bystanders looked at one another , and at Mr. Crisparkle . 
'And here are the same stains upon this stick ! said Jasper , taking it from the hand of the man who held it . 
'I know the stick to be his , and he carried it last night . 
What does this mean ? 'In the name of God , say what it means , Neville ! urged Mr. Crisparkle . 
And yet the very men who had seen it looked darkly at the smears which the bright cold air had already dried . 
'We must return , Neville , said Mr. Crisparkle 'of course you will be glad to come back to clear yourself ? 'Of course , sir . 
Landless will walk at my side , the Minor Canon continued , looking around him . 
'Come , Neville ! They set forth on the walk back and the others , with one exception , straggled after them at various distances . 
Jasper walked on the other side of Neville , and never quitted that position . 
He was silent , while Mr. Crisparkle more than once repeated his former questions , and while Neville repeated his former answers also , while they both hazarded some explanatory conjectures . 
He was obstinately silent , because Mr. Crisparkle's manner directly appealed to him to take some part in the discussion , and no appeal would move his fixed face . 
There was no conceivable reason why his nephew should have suddenly absconded , unless Mr. Sapsea could suggest one , and then he would defer . 
, and then , once more , he would defer . 
His own state of mind , he being distracted with doubts , and labouring under dismal apprehensions , was not to be safely trusted but Mr. Sapsea's was . 
, an Un English complexion . 
and measures were taken towards all these ends immediately . 
It would be difficult to determine which was the more oppressed with horror and amazement Neville Landless , or John Jasper . 
But that Jasper's position forced him to be active , while Neville's forced him to be passive , there would have been nothing to choose between them . 
Each was bowed down and broken . 
With the earliest light of the next morning , men were at work upon the river , and other men most of whom volunteered for the service were examining the banks . 
All that day , again , the search went on . 
But to no purpose for still no trace of Edwin Drood revisited the light of the sun . 
Setting his watches for that night again , so that vigilant eyes should be kept on every change of tide , he went home exhausted . 
'This is strange news , said Mr. Grewgious . 
Jasper had merely lifted up his heavy eyes to say it , and now dropped them again as he drooped , worn out , over one side of his easy chair . 
Mr. Grewgious smoothed his head and face , and stood looking at the fire . 
'How is your ward ? asked Jasper , after a time , in a faint , fatigued voice . 
'Poor little thing ! You may imagine her condition . 
'Have you seen his sister ? inquired Jasper , as before . 
In his depression and exhaustion , Jasper merely opened his eyes to say 'The suspected young man's . 
'Do you suspect him ? asked Mr. Grewgious . 
'I don't know what to think . 
I cannot make up my mind . 
'Nor I , said Mr. Grewgious . 
'But as you spoke of him as the suspected young man , I thought you HAD made up your mind . 
I have just left Miss Landless . 
'What is her state ? 'Defiance of all suspicion , and unbounded faith in her brother . 
'Poor thing ! 'However , pursued Mr. Grewgious , 'it is not of her that I came to speak . 
It is of my ward . 
I have a communication to make that will surprise you . 
At least , it has surprised me . 
Jasper , with a groaning sigh , turned wearily in his chair . 
'Shall I put it off till to morrow ? said Mr. Grewgious . 
'What is it ? demanded Jasper , becoming upright in his chair . 
'What is it ? demanded Jasper once more . 
But for the hands , he might have thought he had never seen the face . 
Mr. Grewgious saw a lead coloured face in the easy chair , and on its surface dreadful starting drops or bubbles , as if of steel . 
'This young couple formed at length the healthy resolution of interchanging their discoveries , openly , sensibly , and tenderly . 
They met for that purpose . 
After some innocent and generous talk , they agreed to dissolve their existing , and their intended , relations , for ever and ever . 
Mr. Grewgious saw a ghastly figure rise , open mouthed , from the easy chair , and lift its outspread hands towards its head . 
I speak to you , and he is gone . 
Mr. Grewgious saw the ghastly figure throw back its head , clutch its hair with its hands , and turn with a writhing action from him . 
Mr. Grewgious heard a terrible shriek , and saw no ghastly figure , sitting or standing saw nothing but a heap of torn and miry clothes upon the floor . 
Not changing his action even then , he opened and shut the palms of his hands as he warmed them , and looked down at it . 
CHAPTER XVI DEVOTED WHEN John Jasper recovered from his fit or swoon , he found himself being tended by Mr. and Mrs. Tope , whom his visitor had summoned for the purpose . 
His visitor , wooden of aspect , sat stiffly in a chair , with his hands upon his knees , watching his recovery . 
'I fear I have alarmed you ? Jasper apologised faintly , when he was helped into his easy chair . 
'Not at all , I thank you , answered Mr. Grewgious . 
'Not at all , I thank you , answered Mr. Grewgious again . 
It shall all be on table in five minutes , and this good gentleman belike will stop and see you take it . 
'You will take something with me ? said Jasper , as the cloth was laid . 
'I couldn't get a morsel down my throat , I thank you , answered Mr. Grewgious . 
Jasper both ate and drank almost voraciously . 
'I shall be glad to pick up your crumbs , said Mr. Grewgious , dryly . 
'Such a thing has been . 
'I believe such things have happened , said Mr. Grewgious , pondering still . 
It does not make his mysterious departure the less cruel to me , it is true but it relieves it of cruelty to her . 
Mr. Grewgious could not but assent to this . 
You do not extinguish it when I state it , but admit it to be a reasonable hope . 
I begin to believe it possible here he clasped his hands 'that he may have disappeared from among us of his own accord , and that he may yet be alive and well . 
Mr. Crisparkle came in at the moment . 
To whom Mr. Jasper repeated 'I begin to believe it possible that he may have disappeared of his own accord , and may yet be alive and well . 
Mr. Crisparkle taking a seat , and inquiring 'Why so ? Mr. Jasper repeated the arguments he had just set forth . 
If they had been less plausible than they were , the good Minor Canon's mind would have been in a state of preparation to receive them , as exculpatory of his unfortunate pupil . 
We all know that their first meeting was unfortunately very far from amicable but all went smoothly and quietly when they were last together at my house . 
'I pray to Heaven it may turn out so ! exclaimed Mr. Crisparkle . 
'I pray to Heaven it may turn out so ! repeated Jasper . 
'You know and Mr. Grewgious should now know likewise that I took a great prepossession against Mr. Neville Landless , arising out of his furious conduct on that first occasion . 
You know that I came to you , extremely apprehensive , on my dear boy's behalf , of his mad violence . 
You know that I even entered in my Diary , and showed the entry to you , that I had dark forebodings against him . 
Mr. Grewgious ought to be possessed of the whole case . 
He shall not , through any suppression of mine , be informed of a part of it , and kept in ignorance of another part of it . 
This fairness troubled the Minor Canon much . 
He felt that he was not as open in his own dealing . 
However , here was a model before him . 
The sanguine reaction manifest in Mr. Jasper was proof even against this unlooked for declaration . 
He walked to Cloisterham Weir . 
He often did so , and consequently there was nothing remarkable in his footsteps tending that way . 
'How did I come here ! was his first thought , as he stopped . 
'Why did I come here ! was his second . 
Then , he stood intently listening to the water . 
The Weir was full two miles above the spot to which the young men had repaired to watch the storm . 
He reasoned with himself What was it ? Where was it ? Put it to the proof . 
Which sense did it address ? No sense reported anything unusual there . 
He listened again , and his sense of hearing again checked the water coming over the Weir , with its usual sound on a cold starlight night . 
He got closer to the Weir , and peered at its well known posts and timbers . 
Nothing in the least unusual was remotely shadowed forth . 
But he resolved that he would come back early in the morning . 
The Weir ran through his broken sleep , all night , and he was back again at sunrise . 
It was a bright frosty morning . 
The whole composition before him , when he stood where he had stood last night , was clearly discernible in its minutest details . 
He had surveyed it closely for some minutes , and was about to withdraw his eyes , when they were attracted keenly to one spot . 
He turned his back upon the Weir , and looked far away at the sky , and at the earth , and then looked again at that one spot . 
It caught his sight again immediately , and he concentrated his vision upon it . 
He could not lose it now , though it was but such a speck in the landscape . 
His hands began plucking off his coat . 
For it struck him that at that spot a corner of the Weir something glistened , which did not move and come over with the glistening water drops , but remained stationary . 
He assured himself of this , he threw off his clothes , he plunged into the icy water , and swam for the spot . 
He knew every hole and corner of all the depths , and dived and dived and dived , until he could bear the cold no more . 
His notion was , that he would find the body he only found a shirt pin sticking in some mud and ooze . 
With these discoveries he returned to Cloisterham , and , taking Neville Landless with him , went straight to the Mayor . 
Mr. Jasper was sent for , the watch and shirt pin were identified , Neville was detained , and the wildest frenzy and fatuity of evil report rose against him . 
, and always reading tracts of the obscurest meaning , in broken English , but always accurately understanding them in the purest mother tongue . 
He had nearly brought Mrs. Crisparkle's grey hairs with sorrow to the grave . 
He had repeatedly said he would have Mr. Crisparkle's life . 
He had repeatedly said he would have everybody's life , and become in effect the last man . 
These dropping shots from the blunderbusses of blunderheadedness might not have hit him in a vital place . 
But he had to stand against a trained and well directed fire of arms of precision too . 
, against that ill starred fellow . 
He had armed himself with an offensive weapon for the fatal night , and he had gone off early in the morning , after making preparations for departure . 
He had been found with traces of blood on him truly , they might have been wholly caused as he represented , but they might not , also . 
Those things would be the watch and shirt pin . 
As to his opportunities of casting them into the river if he were the object of these suspicions , they were easy . 
For , he had been seen by many persons , wandering about on that side of the city indeed on all sides of it in a miserable and seemingly half distracted manner . 
As to the choice of the spot , obviously such criminating evidence had better take its chance of being found anywhere , rather than upon himself , or in his possession . 
And yet , be it observed , he disappeared before that gentleman appeared . 
On the suspicions thus urged and supported , Neville was detained , and re detained , and the search was pressed on every hand , and Jasper laboured night and day . 
But nothing more was found . 
No discovery being made , which proved the lost man to be dead , it at length became necessary to release the person suspected of having made away with him . 
Neville was set at large . 
Then , a consequence ensued which Mr. Crisparkle had too well foreseen . 
Neville must leave the place , for the place shunned him and cast him out . 
Even had that not been so , the authority to which the Minor Canon deferred officially , would have settled the point . 
Crisparkle , quoth the Dean , 'human justice may err , but it must act according to its lights . 
The days of taking sanctuary are past . 
This young man must not take sanctuary with us . 
'You mean that he must leave my house , sir ? 'Mr . 
Crisparkle , returned the prudent Dean , 'I claim no authority in your house . 
I merely confer with you , on the painful necessity you find yourself under , of depriving this young man of the great advantages of your counsel and instruction . 
'It is very lamentable , sir , Mr. Crisparkle represented . 
'Very much so , the Dean assented . 
'And if it be a necessity Mr. Crisparkle faltered . 
'As you unfortunately find it to be , returned the Dean . 
Mr. Crisparkle bowed submissively 'It is hard to prejudge his case , sir , but I am sensible that 'Just so . 
As you say , Mr. Crisparkle , interposed the Dean , nodding his head smoothly , 'there is nothing else to be done . 
No doubt , no doubt . 
There is no alternative , as your good sense has discovered . 
'I am entirely satisfied of his perfect innocence , sir , nevertheless . 
'We e ell ! said the Dean , in a more confidential tone , and slightly glancing around him , 'I would not say so , generally . 
Enough of suspicion attaches to him to no , I think I would not say so , generally . 
'It does not become us , perhaps , pursued the Dean , 'to be partisans . 
We clergy keep our hearts warm and our heads cool , and we hold a judicious middle course . 
'And yet , do you know , I don't think , with a very nice and neat emphasis on those two words 'I DON'T THINK I would state it emphatically . 
State it ? Ye e es ! But emphatically ? No o o . 
In point of fact , Mr. Crisparkle , keeping our hearts warm and our heads cool , we clergy need do nothing emphatically . 
So Minor Canon Row knew Neville Landless no more and he went whithersoever he would , or could , with a blight upon his name and fame . 
It was not until then that John Jasper silently resumed his place in the choir . 
Haggard and red eyed , his hopes plainly had deserted him , his sanguine mood was gone , and all his worst misgivings had come back . 
The discovery of the watch and shirt pin convinces me that he was murdered that night , and that his jewellery was taken from him to prevent identification by its means . 
All the delusive hopes I had founded on his separation from his betrothed wife , I give to the winds . 
They perish before this fatal discovery . 
I now swear , and record the oath on this page , That I nevermore will discuss this mystery with any human creature until I hold the clue to it in my hand . 
That I never will relax in my secrecy or in my search . 
That I will fasten the crime of the murder of my dear dead boy upon the murderer . 
And , That I devote myself to his destruction . 
In his college days of athletic exercises , Mr. Crisparkle had known professors of the Noble Art of fisticuffs , and had attended two or three of their gloved gatherings . 
He had now an opportunity of observing that as to the phrenological formation of the backs of their heads , the Professing Philanthropists were uncommonly like the Pugilists . 
In the development of all those organs which constitute , or attend , a propensity to 'pitch into' your fellow creatures , the Philanthropists were remarkably favoured . 
There were only three conditions of resemblance wanting between these Professors and those . 
Secondly , the Philanthropists had not the good temper of the Pugilists , and used worse language . 
In these last particulars the Professors of the Noble Art were much nobler than the Professors of Philanthropy . 
'Sir , said Mr. Honeythunder , in his tremendous voice , like a schoolmaster issuing orders to a boy of whom he had a bad opinion , 'sit down . 
gathered these into a basket and walked off with them . 
'Do we ? returned the Minor Canon . 
But you began by saying that we took different views , you know . 
you must have set up some views as mine . 
What do you call that ? 'Murder , said the Minor Canon . 
'What do you call the doer of that deed , sir ? 'A murderer , said the Minor Canon . 
'I am glad to hear you admit so much , sir , retorted Mr. Honeythunder , in his most offensive manner 'and I candidly tell you that I didn't expect it . 
Here he lowered heavily at Mr. Crisparkle again . 
'Be so good as to explain what you mean by those very unjustifiable expressions . 
'I don't sit here , sir , returned the Philanthropist , raising his voice to a roar , 'to be browbeaten . 
'As the only other person present , no one can possibly know that better than I do , returned the Minor Canon very quietly . 
'But I interrupt your explanation . 
'Bloodshed ! Abel ! Cain ! I hold no terms with Cain . 
I repudiate with a shudder the red hand when it is offered me . 
'The Commandments say , no murder . 
'And they also say , you shall bear no false witness , observed Mr. Crisparkle . 
And let me tell you , sir , I wish that , as a man and a Minor Canon , you were better employed , with a nod . 
'Better employed , with another nod . 
'Bet ter em ployed ! with another and the three nods added up . 
Mr. Crisparkle rose a little heated in the face , but with perfect command of himself . 
Honeythunder , he said , taking up the papers referred to 'my being better or worse employed than I am at present is a matter of taste and opinion . 
You might think me better employed in enrolling myself a member of your Society . 
'Ay , indeed , sir ! retorted Mr. Honeythunder , shaking his head in a threatening manner . 
'It would have been better for you if you had done that long ago ! 'I think otherwise . 
'However , as I have quite clearly satisfied myself that it is no part of my profession to make professions , I say no more of that . 
Feeling that certainty , I befriend him . 
As long as that certainty shall last , I will befriend him . 
Good fellow ! manly fellow ! And he was so modest , too . 
There was no more self assertion in the Minor Canon than in the schoolboy who had stood in the breezy playing fields keeping a wicket . 
He was simply and staunchly true to his duty alike in the large case and in the small . 
So all true souls ever are . 
So every true soul ever was , ever is , and ever will be . 
There is nothing little to the really great in spirit . 
'Then who do you make out did the deed ? asked Mr. Honeythunder , turning on him abruptly . 
'And , sir , you are not a disinterested witness , we must bear in mind . 
'How am I an interested one ? inquired Mr. Crisparkle , smiling innocently , at a loss to imagine . 
'There was a certain stipend , sir , paid to you for your pupil , which may have warped your judgment a bit , said Mr. Honeythunder , coarsely . 
If people find I have any about me that fit 'em , they can put 'em on and wear 'em , if they like . 
That's their look out not mine . 
Mr. Crisparkle eyed him with a just indignation , and took him to task thus 'Mr . 
But you have given me such a specimen of both , that I should be a fit subject for both if I remained silent respecting them . 
'They don't suit YOU , I dare say , sir . 
'They are , repeated Mr. Crisparkle , without noticing the interruption , 'detestable . 
They violate equally the justice that should belong to Christians , and the restraints that should belong to gentlemen . 
I do not admit the discovery to be yours in the least , and I have not a grain of faith in your remedy . 
'These are strong words , sir ! exclaimed the Philanthropist . 
'I hope so , said Mr. Crisparkle . 
For Mr. Crisparkle had just enough of harmless vanity to hope that he had hit hard , and to glow with the belief that he had trimmed the Philanthropic Jacket pretty handsomely . 
He took himself to Staple Inn , but not to P. J. T. and Mr. Grewgious . 
Full many a creaking stair he climbed before he reached some attic rooms in a corner , turned the latch of their unbolted door , and stood beside the table of Neville Landless . 
An air of retreat and solitude hung about the rooms and about their inhabitant . 
He was much worn , and so were they . 
The rooms were sparely furnished , but with good store of books . 
Everything expressed the abode of a poor student . 
'How goes it , Neville ? 'I am in good heart , Mr. Crisparkle , and working away . 
'I wish your eyes were not quite so large and not quite so bright , said the Minor Canon , slowly releasing the hand he had taken in his . 
'They brighten at the sight of you , returned Neville . 
'If you were to fall away from me , they would soon be dull enough . 
'Rally , rally ! urged the other , in a stimulating tone . 
'But I HAVE rallied , and am doing famously . 
Mr. Crisparkle turned him with his face a little more towards the light . 
'I want to see a ruddier touch here , Neville , he said , indicating his own healthy cheek by way of pattern . 
'I want more sun to shine upon you . 
Neville drooped suddenly , as he replied in a lowered voice 'I am not hardy enough for that , yet . 
I may become so , but I cannot bear it yet . 
'My poor fellow ! said the Minor Canon , in a tone so purely sympathetic that the young man caught his hand , 'I never said it was unreasonable never thought so . 
But I should like you to do it . 
'And that would give me the strongest motive to do it . 
I cannot persuade myself that the eyes of even the stream of strangers I pass in this vast city look at me without suspicion . 
I feel marked and tainted , even when I go out as I do only at night . 
But the darkness covers me then , and I take courage from it . 
Mr. Crisparkle laid a hand upon his shoulder , and stood looking down at him . 
'If I could have changed my name , said Neville , 'I would have done so . 
But as you wisely pointed out to me , I can't do that , for it would look like guilt . 
If I could have gone to some distant place , I might have found relief in that , but the thing is not to be thought of , for the same reason . 
Hiding and escaping would be the construction in either case . 
It seems a little hard to be so tied to a stake , and innocent but I don't complain . 
'And you must expect no miracle to help you , Neville , said Mr. Crisparkle , compassionately . 
'No , sir , I know that . 
The ordinary fulness of time and circumstances is all I have to trust to . 
'It will right you at last , Neville . 
'So I believe , and I hope I may live to know it . 
Such a good friend and helper ! He took the fortifying hand from his shoulder , and kissed it . 
Mr. Crisparkle beamed at the books , but not so brightly as when he had entered . 
The Minor Canon's Cathedral duties made these visits of his difficult to accomplish , and only to be compassed at intervals of many weeks . 
But they were as serviceable as they were precious to Neville Landless . 
When they had got through such studies as they had in hand , they stood leaning on the window sill , and looking down upon the patch of garden . 
'Next week , said Mr. Crisparkle , 'you will cease to be alone , and will have a devoted companion . 
'And yet , returned Neville , 'this seems an uncongenial place to bring my sister to . 
'I don't think so , said the Minor Canon . 
'There is duty to be done here and there are womanly feeling , sense , and courage wanted here . 
'I meant , explained Neville , 'that the surroundings are so dull and unwomanly , and that Helena can have no suitable friend or society here . 
'You have only to remember , said Mr. Crisparkle , 'that you are here yourself , and that she has to draw you into the sunlight . 
They were silent for a little while , and then Mr. Crisparkle began anew . 
Do you remember that ? 'Right well ! 'I was inclined to think it at the time an enthusiastic flight . 
No matter what I think it now . 
What I would emphasise is , that under the head of Pride your sister is a great and opportune example to you . 
'Under ALL heads that are included in the composition of a fine character , she is . 
'Say so but take this one . 
Your sister has learnt how to govern what is proud in her nature . 
She can dominate it even when it is wounded through her sympathy with you . 
No doubt she has suffered deeply in those same streets where you suffered deeply . 
No doubt her life is darkened by the cloud that darkens yours . 
Every day and hour of her life since Edwin Drood's disappearance , she has faced malignity and folly for you as only a brave nature well directed can . 
So it will be with her to the end . 
Another and weaker kind of pride might sink broken hearted , but never such a pride as hers which knows no shrinking , and can get no mastery over her . 
The pale cheek beside him flushed under the comparison , and the hint implied in it . 
'I will do all I can to imitate her , said Neville . 
'Do so , and be a truly brave man , as she is a truly brave woman , answered Mr. Crisparkle stoutly . 
Will you go my way with me , when it is quite dark ? Mind ! it is not I who wait for darkness . 
Neville replied , that he would accompany him directly . 
'How do you do , reverend sir ? said Mr. Grewgious , with abundant offers of hospitality , which were as cordially declined as made . 
'And how is your charge getting on over the way in the set that I had the pleasure of recommending to you as vacant and eligible ? Mr. Crisparkle replied suitably . 
'I am glad you approve of them , said Mr. Grewgious , 'because I entertain a sort of fancy for having him under my eye . 
As Mr. Grewgious had to turn his eye up considerably before he could see the chambers , the phrase was to be taken figuratively and not literally . 
'And how did you leave Mr. Jasper , reverend sir ? said Mr. Grewgious . 
Mr. Crisparkle had left him pretty well . 
'And where did you leave Mr. Jasper , reverend sir ? Mr. Crisparkle had left him at Cloisterham . 
'And when did you leave Mr. Jasper , reverend sir ? That morning . 
'Umps ! said Mr. Grewgious . 
'He didn't say he was coming , perhaps ? 'Coming where ? 'Anywhere , for instance ? said Mr. Grewgious . 
'Because here he is , said Mr. Grewgious , who had asked all these questions , with his preoccupied glance directed out at window . 
'You are right ! cried Mr. Crisparkle . 
'Umps ! said Mr. Grewgious . 
'Ay ! said Mr. Grewgious musingly still . 
'Do I see him waiting for you ? 'No doubt you do . 
It was midnight when he returned from his solitary expedition and climbed his staircase . 
The night was hot , and the windows of the staircase were all wide open . 
Neville was quite at a loss . 
'Runners , said the visitor . 
Next door at the back . 
'And the mignonette and wall flower ? 'The same , said the visitor . 
Neville lighted his candles , and the visitor sat down . 
'I have noticed , said he my name is Tartar . 
that you shut yourself up a good deal , and that you seem to like my garden aloft here . 
If you would like a little more of it , I could throw out a few lines and stays between my windows and yours , which the runners would take to directly . 
to your windows , and draw back again when they wanted watering or gardening , and shove on again when they were ship shape so that they would cause you no trouble . 
I couldn't take this liberty without asking your permission , so I venture to ask it . 
Tartar , corresponding set , next door . 
I ought to apologise for looking in so late . 
that you generally walk out at night , I thought I should inconvenience you least by awaiting your return . 
I am always afraid of inconveniencing busy men , being an idle man . 
'I should not have thought so , from your appearance . 
'No ? I take it as a compliment . 
In fact , I was bred in the Royal Navy , and was First Lieutenant when I quitted it . 
But , an uncle disappointed in the service leaving me his property on condition that I left the Navy , I accepted the fortune , and resigned my commission . 
'Lately , I presume ? 'Well , I had had twelve or fifteen years of knocking about first . 
I came here some nine months before you I had had one crop before you came . 
Besides , it would never do for a man who had been aboard ship from his boyhood to turn luxurious all at once . 
Whimsically as this was said , there was a touch of merry earnestness in it that made it doubly whimsical . 
'However , said the Lieutenant , 'I have talked quite enough about myself . 
It is not my way , I hope it has merely been to present myself to you naturally . 
If you will allow me to take the liberty I have described , it will be a charity , for it will give me something more to do . 
And you are not to suppose that it will entail any interruption or intrusion on you , for that is far from my intention . 
Neville replied that he was greatly obliged , and that he thankfully accepted the kind proposal . 
'I am very glad to take your windows in tow , said the Lieutenant . 
rather too studious and delicate . 
May I ask , is your health at all affected ? 'I have undergone some mental distress , said Neville , confused , 'which has stood me in the stead of illness . 
'Pardon me , said Mr. Tartar . 
With the greatest delicacy he shifted his ground to the windows again , and asked if he could look at one of them . 
On Neville's opening it , he immediately sprang out , as if he were going aloft with a whole watch in an emergency , and were setting a bright example . 
'All taut and trim here . 
Those lines and stays shall be rigged before you turn out in the morning . 
May I take this short cut home , and say good night ? 'Mr . 
Mr. Grewgious , his bedroom window blind held aside with his hand , happened at the moment to have Neville's chambers under his eye for the last time that night . 
Fortunately his eye was on the front of the house and not the back , or this remarkable appearance and disappearance might have broken his rest as a phenomenon . 
CHAPTER XVIII A SETTLER IN CLOISTERHAM AT about this time a stranger appeared in Cloisterham a white haired personage , with black eyebrows . 
represented all whom it might or might not concern , and absorbed the whole of the information . 
This gentleman's white head was unusually large , and his shock of white hair was unusually thick and ample . 
'Something old , said the gentleman . 
'Take my hat down for a moment from that peg , will you ? No , I don't want it look into it . 
What do you see written there ? The waiter read 'Datchery . 
'Now you know my name , said the gentleman 'Dick Datchery . 
I was saying something old is what I should prefer , something odd and out of the way something venerable , architectural , and inconvenient . 
But a architectural lodging ! That seemed to trouble the waiter's head , and he shook it . 
'Anything Cathedraly , now , Mr. Datchery suggested . 
Tope , said the waiter , brightening , as he rubbed his chin with his hand , 'would be the likeliest party to inform in that line . 
'Who is Mr. Tope ? inquired Dick Datchery . 
'I'll call on Mrs. Tope , said Mr. Datchery , 'after dinner . 
So when he had done his dinner , he was duly directed to the spot , and sallied out for it . 
He was getting very cold indeed when he came upon a fragment of burial ground in which an unhappy sheep was grazing . 
''It 'im agin ! cried the boy , as the poor creature leaped 'and made a dint in his wool . 
'Let him be ! said Mr. Datchery . 
'Don't you see you have lamed him ? 'Yer lie , returned the sportsman . 
''E went and lamed isself . 
I see 'im do it , and I giv' 'im a shy as a Widdy warning to 'im not to go a bruisin' 'is master's mutton any more . 
'I won't I'll come when yer can ketch me . 
'Stay there then , and show me which is Mr. Tope's . 
This brisk dialogue concluded , the boy led the way , and by and by stopped at some distance from an arched passage , pointing . 
You see that there winder and door ? 'That's Tope's ? 'Yer lie it ain't . 
'Indeed ? said Mr. Datchery , with a second look of some interest . 
'Yes , and I ain't a goin' no nearer 'IM , I tell yer . 
'Why not ? ''Cos I ain't a goin' to be lifted off my legs and 'ave my braces bust and be choked not if I knows it , and not by 'Im . 
'A little way in , o' that side , there's a low door , down two steps . 
That's Topeseses with 'is name on a hoval plate . 
See here , said Mr. Datchery , producing a shilling . 
'You owe me half of this . 
'Yer lie I don't owe yer nothing I never seen yer . 
'I tell you you owe me half of this , because I have no sixpence in my pocket . 
So the next time you meet me you shall do something else for me , to pay me . 
'All right , give us 'old . 
'What is your name , and where do you live ? 'Deputy . 
Travellers' Twopenny , 'cross the green . 
Mr. Datchery , taking off his hat to give that shock of white hair of his another shake , seemed quite resigned , and betook himself whither he had been directed . 
, was of very modest proportions , and partook of the character of a cool dungeon . 
Its ancient walls were massive , and its rooms rather seemed to have been dug out of them , than to have been designed beforehand with any reference to them . 
Mr. Datchery , however , was more appreciative . 
He found that if he sat with the main door open he would enjoy the passing society of all comers to and fro by the gateway , and would have light enough . 
He found the rent moderate , and everything as quaintly inconvenient as he could desire . 
The poor dear gentleman was very solitary and very sad , Mrs. Tope said , but she had no doubt he would 'speak for her . 
Mr. Jasper proving willing to speak for Mrs. Tope , Mr. Datchery , who had sent up his card , was invited to ascend the postern staircase . 
The Mayor was there , Mr. Tope said but he was not to be regarded in the light of company , as he and Mr. Jasper were great friends . 
'That is enough , sir , said Mr. Datchery . 
'The Worshipful the Mayor , said Mr. Datchery , with a low bow , 'places me under an infinite obligation . 
'Very good people , sir , Mr. and Mrs. Tope , said Mr. Sapsea , with condescension . 
Much approved by the Dean and Chapter . 
'The Worshipful the Mayor gives them a character , said Mr. Datchery , 'of which they may indeed be proud . 
We are a constitutional city , as it becomes such a city to be , and we uphold and maintain our glorious privileges . 
'Retired from the Army , sir ? suggested Mr. Sapsea . 
'His Honour the Mayor does me too much credit , returned Mr. Datchery . 
'Navy , sir ? suggested Mr. Sapsea . 
'Again , repeated Mr. Datchery , 'His Honour the Mayor does me too much credit . 
'Diplomacy is a fine profession , said Mr. Sapsea , as a general remark . 
Now this was very soothing . 
Here was a gentleman of a great , not to say a grand , address , accustomed to rank and dignity , really setting a fine example how to behave to a Mayor . 
There was something in that third person style of being spoken to , that Mr. Sapsea found particularly recognisant of his merits and position . 
'But I crave pardon , said Mr. Datchery . 
'Not at all , sir , said Mr. Sapsea . 
'I am returning home , and if you would like to take the exterior of our Cathedral in your way , I shall be glad to point it out . 
'His Honour the Mayor , said Mr. Datchery , 'is more than kind and gracious . 
'Would His Honour allow me to inquire whether there are strong suspicions of any one ? 'More than suspicions , sir , returned Mr. Sapsea 'all but certainties . 
'Only think now ! cried Mr. Datchery . 
'But proof , sir , proof must be built up stone by stone , said the Mayor . 
'As I say , the end crowns the work . 
It is not enough that justice should be morally certain she must be immorally certain legally , that is . 
'His Honour , said Mr. Datchery , 'reminds me of the nature of the law . 
How true ! 'As I say , sir , pompously went on the Mayor , 'the arm of the law is a strong arm , and a long arm . 
That is the may I put it . 
A strong arm and a long arm . 
'How forcible ! And yet , again , how true ! murmured Mr. Datchery . 
'And without betraying , what I call the secrets of the prison house , said Mr. Sapsea 'the secrets of the prison house is the term I used on the bench . 
'And what other term than His Honour's would express it ? said Mr. Datchery . 
, that in this case the long arm will reach , and the strong arm will strike . 
This is our Cathedral , sir . 
The best judges are pleased to admire it , and the best among our townsmen own to being a little vain of it . 
All this time Mr. Datchery had walked with his hat under his arm , and his white hair streaming . 
'Pray be covered , sir , entreated Mr. Sapsea magnificently plying 'I shall not mind it , I assure you . 
'His Honour is very good , but I do it for coolness , said Mr. Datchery . 
The Cathedral disposed of , he led the way by the churchyard , and stopped to extol the beauty of the evening by chance in the immediate vicinity of Mrs. Sapsea's epitaph . 
The partiality of our people has made it so , and strangers have been seen taking a copy of it now and then . 
I am not a judge of it myself , for it is a little work of my own . 
But it was troublesome to turn , sir I may say , difficult to turn with elegance . 
'Ah , Durdles ! This is the mason , sir one of our Cloisterham worthies everybody here knows Durdles . 
Mr. Datchery , Durdles a gentleman who is going to settle here . 
'I wouldn't do it if I was him , growled Durdles . 
'You surely don't speak for yourself , Mr. Durdles , returned Mr. Datchery , 'any more than for His Honour . 
'Who's His Honour ? demanded Durdles . 
Until which , and when , and where , Mister Sapsea is his name , England is his nation , Cloisterham's his dwelling place , Aukshneer's his occupation . 
'I suppose a curious stranger might come to see you , and your works , Mr. Durdles , at any odd time ? said Mr. Datchery upon that . 
Master Deputy , what do you owe me ? 'A job . 
'Mind you pay me honestly with the job of showing me Mr. Durdles's house when I want to go there . 
Deputy , with a piercing broadside of whistle through the whole gap in his mouth , as a receipt in full for all arrears , vanished . 
Helena Landless has left the Nuns' House to attend her brother's fortunes , and pretty Rosa is alone . 
Cloisterham is so bright and sunny in these summer days , that the Cathedral and the monastery ruin show as if their strong walls were transparent . 
The Cloisterham gardens blush with ripening fruit . 
If he had chosen his time for finding her at a disadvantage , he could have done no better . 
Perhaps he has chosen it . 
has contributed herself and a veal pie to a picnic . 
'O why , why , why , did you say I was at home ! cried Rosa , helplessly . 
The maid replies , that Mr. Jasper never asked the question . 
That he said he knew she was at home , and begged she might be told that he asked to see her . 
'What shall I do ! what shall I do ! thinks Rosa , clasping her hands . 
Possessed by a kind of desperation , she adds in the next breath , that she will come to Mr. Jasper in the garden . 
Such is the wild idea that flutters through her mind . 
She hangs her garden hat on her arm , and goes out . 
The moment she sees him from the porch , leaning on the sun dial , the old horrible feeling of being compelled by him , asserts its hold upon her . 
She feels that she would even then go back , but that he draws her feet towards him . 
She cannot resist , and sits down , with her head bent , on the garden seat beside the sun dial . 
She cannot look up at him for abhorrence , but she has perceived that he is dressed in deep mourning . 
It was not so at first but the lost has long been given up , and mourned for , as dead . 
He would begin by touching her hand . 
She feels the intention , and draws her hand back . 
His eyes are then fixed upon her , she knows , though her own see nothing but the grass . 
'I have been waiting , he begins , 'for some time , to be summoned back to my duty near you . 
'I have left off that study . 
'Not left off , I think . 
I was told by your guardian that you discontinued it under the shock that we have all felt so acutely . 
When will you resume ? 'Never , sir . 
'Never ? You could have done no more if you had loved my dear boy . 
'I did love him ! cried Rosa , with a flash of anger . 
'Yes but not quite not quite in the right way , shall I say ? Not in the intended and expected way . 
'Then , to be told that you discontinued your study with me , was to be politely told that you abandoned it altogether ? he suggested . 
'Yes , says Rosa , with sudden spirit , 'The politeness was my guardian's , not mine . 
I told him that I was resolved to leave off , and that I was determined to stand by my resolution . 
'And you still are ? 'I still am , sir . 
And I beg not to be questioned any more about it . 
At all events , I will not answer any more I have that in my power . 
'I will not question you any more , since you object to it so much I will confess 'I do not wish to hear you , sir , cries Rosa , rising . 
This time he does touch her with his outstretched hand . 
In shrinking from it , she shrinks into her seat again . 
'We must sometimes act in opposition to our wishes , he tells her in a low voice . 
'You must do so now , or do more harm to others than you can ever set right . 
'What harm ? 'Presently , presently . 
You question ME , you see , and surely that's not fair when you forbid me to question you . 
Nevertheless , I will answer the question presently . 
Dearest Rosa ! Charming Rosa ! She starts up again . 
This time he does not touch her . 
'I do not forget how many windows command a view of us , he says , glancing towards them . 
'I will not touch you again I will come no nearer to you than I am . 
Sit down , my beloved . 
She would have gone once more was all but gone and once more his face , darkly threatening what would follow if she went , has stopped her . 
Looking at him with the expression of the instant frozen on her face , she sits down on the seat again . 
'I endured it all in silence . 
So long as you were his , or so long as I supposed you to be his , I hid my secret loyally . 
Did I not ? This lie , so gross , while the mere words in which it is told are so true , is more than Rosa can endure . 
She answers with kindling indignation 'You were as false throughout , sir , as you are now . 
You were false to him , daily and hourly . 
You know that you made my life unhappy by your pursuit of me . 
I don't ask you for your love give me yourself and your hatred give me yourself and that pretty rage give me yourself and that enchanting scorn it will be enough for me . 
'I told you , you rare charmer , you sweet witch , that you must stay and hear me , or do more harm than can ever be undone . 
You asked me what harm . 
Stay , and I will tell you . 
Go , and I will do it ! Again Rosa quails before his threatening face , though innocent of its meaning , and she remains . 
Her panting breathing comes and goes as if it would choke her but with a repressive hand upon her bosom , she remains . 
'I have made my confession that my love is mad . 
A film come over the eyes she raises for an instant , as though he had turned her faint . 
'Even him , he repeats . 
'Yes , even him ! Rosa , you see me and you hear me . 
Judge for yourself whether any other admirer shall love you and live , whose life is in my hand . 
'What do you mean , sir ? 'I mean to show you how mad my love is . 
It was hawked through the late inquiries by Mr. Crisparkle , that young Landless had confessed to him that he was a rival of my lost boy . 
That is an inexpiable offence in my eyes . 
I have since worked patiently to wind and wind it round him and it is slowly winding as I speak . 
'Your belief , if you believe in the criminality of Mr. Landless , is not Mr. Crisparkle's belief , and he is a good man , Rosa retorts . 
One wanting link discovered by perseverance against a guilty man , proves his guilt , however slight its evidence before , and he dies . 
Young Landless stands in deadly peril either way . 
He puts that from him with a slighting action of his hand and a curled lip . 
'I was going to show you how madly I love you . 
Miss Landless has become your bosom friend . 
You care for her peace of mind ? 'I love her dearly . 
'You care for her good name ? 'I have said , sir , I love her dearly . 
to be of the airiest and playfullest 'I am unconsciously giving offence by questioning again . 
I will simply make statements , therefore , and not put questions . 
You do care for your bosom friend's good name , and you do care for her peace of mind . 
Then remove the shadow of the gallows from her , dear one ! 'You dare propose to me to 'Darling , I dare propose to you . 
If it be bad to idolise you , I am the worst of men if it be good , I am the best . 
My love for you is above all other love , and my truth to you is above all other truth . 
Let me have hope and favour , and I am a forsworn man for your sake . 
There is my fidelity to my dear boy after death . 
Tread upon it ! With an action of his hands , as though he cast down something precious . 
'There is the inexpiable offence against my adoration of you . 
Spurn it ! With a similar action . 
'There are my labours in the cause of a just vengeance for six toiling months . 
Crush them ! With another repetition of the action . 
'There is my past and my present wasted life . 
There is the desolation of my heart and my soul . 
There is my peace there is my despair . 
She swiftly moves towards the porch but in an instant he is at her side , and speaking in her ear . 
'Rosa , I am self repressed again . 
I am walking calmly beside you to the house . 
I shall wait for some encouragement and hope . 
I shall not strike too soon . 
Give me a sign that you attend to me . 
She slightly and constrainedly moves her hand . 
'Not a word of this to any one , or it will bring down the blow , as certainly as night follows day . 
Another sign that you attend to me . 
She moves her hand once more . 
'I love you , love you , love you ! If you were to cast me off now but you will not you would never be rid of me . 
No one should come between us . 
I would pursue you to the death . 
Rosa faints in going up stairs , and is carefully carried to her room and laid down on her bed . 
CHAPTER XX A FLIGHT ROSA no sooner came to herself than the whole of the late interview was before her . 
It even seemed as if it had pursued her into her insensibility , and she had not had a moment's unconsciousness of it . 
What to do , she was at a frightened loss to know the only one clear thought in her mind was , that she must fly from this terrible man . 
But where could she take refuge , and how could she go ? She had never breathed her dread of him to any one but Helena . 
Rosa's mind throughout the last six months had been stormily confused . 
A half formed , wholly unexpressed suspicion tossed in it , now heaving itself up , and now sinking into the deep now gaining palpability , and now losing it . 
She ran over in her mind again , all that he had said by the sun dial in the garden . 
He had persisted in treating the disappearance as murder , consistently with his whole public course since the finding of the watch and shirt pin . 
Was that like his having really done so ? He had spoken of laying his six months' labours in the cause of a just vengeance at her feet . 
Surely these facts were strong against a fancy that scarcely dared to hint itself . 
could get by no road to any other conclusion than that he WAS a terrible man , and must be fled from . 
She had been Helena's stay and comfort during the whole time . 
She had constantly assured her of her full belief in her brother's innocence , and of her sympathy with him in his misery . 
He was Helena's unfortunate brother , to her , and nothing more . 
if she could have restrained herself from so giving it . 
Afraid of him as the bright and delicate little creature was , her spirit swelled at the thought of his knowing it from her own lips . 
But where was she to go ? Anywhere beyond his reach , was no reply to the question . 
Somewhere must be thought of . 
She determined to go to her guardian , and to go immediately . 
The fascination of repulsion had been upon her so long , and now culminated so darkly , that she felt as if he had power to bind her by a spell . 
She hurried a few quite useless articles into a very little bag , left the note in a conspicuous place , and went out , softly closing the gate after her . 
It was the first time she had ever been even in Cloisterham High Street alone . 
But knowing all its ways and windings very well , she hurried straight to the corner from which the omnibus departed . 
It was , at that very moment , going off . 
'Stop and take me , if you please , Joe . 
I am obliged to go to London . 
In less than another minute she was on her road to the railway , under Joe's protection . 
'Can you go round when you get back , and tell Miss Twinkleton that you saw me safely off , Joe 'It shall be done , Miss . 
'With my love , please , Joe . 
'Yes , Miss and I wouldn't mind having it myself ! But Joe did not articulate the last clause only thought it . 
Now that she was whirling away for London in real earnest , Rosa was at leisure to resume the thoughts which her personal hurry had checked . 
But as the evening grew darker and darker , and the great city impended nearer and nearer , the doubts usual in such cases began to arise . 
'Hiram Grewgious , Esquire , Staple Inn , London . 
No barrel organ mended the matter , and no big drum beat dull care away . 
Like the chapel bells that were also going here and there , they only seemed to evoke echoes from brick surfaces , and dust from everything . 
As to the flat wind instruments , they seemed to have cracked their hearts and souls in pining for the country . 
'Does Mr. Grewgious live here ? 'Mr . 
Grewgious lives there , Miss , said the watchman , pointing further in . 
Guided by the painted name of Mr. Grewgious , she went up stairs and softly tapped and tapped several times . 
Rosa drew nearer to him in the twilight of the room . 
'Lord bless me ! ejaculated Mr. Grewgious . 
'Came alone ! Why didn't you write to me to come and fetch you ? 'I had no time . 
I took a sudden resolution . 
Poor , poor Eddy ! 'Ah , poor fellow , poor fellow ! 'His uncle has made love to me . 
He stopped and said , wiping his face 'I beg your pardon , my dear , but you will be glad to know I feel better . 
Tell me no more just now , or I might do it again . 
You must be refreshed and cheered . 
Your toilet must be provided for , and you shall have everything that an unlimited head chambermaid by which expression I mean a head chambermaid not limited as to outlay can procure . 
I brought it with me . 
'It is not an extensive bag , said Mr. Grewgious , candidly , 'though admirably calculated to contain a day's provision for a canary bird . 
Perhaps you brought a canary bird ? Rosa smiled and shook her head . 
Which is the case with so many of us ! You didn't say what meal , my dear . 
Have a nice jumble of all meals . 
Rosa thanked him , but said she could only take a cup of tea . 
And soon afterwards they were realised in practice , and the board was spread . 
'Thank you , my dear , said Mr. Grewgious . 
'Ahem ! Let's talk ! 'Do you always live here , sir ? asked Rosa . 
'And always alone ? 'Always alone except that I have daily company in a gentleman by the name of Bazzard , my clerk . 
'HE doesn't live here ? 'No , he goes his way , after office hours . 
In fact , he is off duty here , altogether , just at present and a firm down stairs , with which I have business relations , lend me a substitute . 
But it would be extremely difficult to replace Mr. Bazzard . 
'He must be very fond of you , said Rosa . 
'He bears up against it with commendable fortitude if he is , returned Mr. Grewgious , after considering the matter . 
'But I doubt if he is . 
You see , he is discontented , poor fellow . 
'Why isn't he contented ? was the natural inquiry . 
'Misplaced , said Mr. Grewgious , with great mystery . 
Rosa's eyebrows resumed their inquisitive and perplexed expression . 
'So misplaced , Mr. Grewgious went on , 'that I feel constantly apologetic towards him . 
that I have reason to be . 
Mr. Grewgious had by this time grown so very mysterious , that Rosa did not know how to go on . 
While she was thinking about it Mr. Grewgious suddenly jerked out of himself for the second time 'Let's talk . 
We were speaking of Mr. Bazzard . 
'And nobody , pursued Mr. Grewgious in the same tone , 'will hear , on any account whatever , of bringing it out . 
'Not a bad one , sir ? said Rosa , innocently , with her eyebrows again in action . 
Rosa appeared to consider what she would do if the awkward supposititious case were hers . 
'Consequently , said Mr. Grewgious , 'Mr . 
Bazzard would have a sense of my inferiority to himself under any circumstances but when I am his master , you know , the case is greatly aggravated . 
Mr. Grewgious shook his head seriously , as if he felt the offence to be a little too much , though of his own committing . 
'How came you to be his master , sir ? asked Rosa . 
'A question that naturally follows , said Mr. Grewgious . 
'For pursuing his genius , sir ? 'No , my dear , said Mr. Grewgious , 'for starvation . 
In that way Mr. Bazzard became my clerk , and he feels it very much . 
'I am glad he is grateful , said Rosa . 
'I didn't quite mean that , my dear . 
I mean , that he feels the degradation . 
Mr. Bazzard has been the subject of one of these dedications . 
Now , you know , I never had a play dedicated to ME ! Rosa looked at him as if she would have liked him to be the recipient of a thousand dedications . 
'Which again , naturally , rubs against the grain of Mr. Bazzard , said Mr. Grewgious . 
Indeed , better than I could have expected . 
'Is the tragedy named , sir ? asked Rosa . 
'Strictly between ourselves , answered Mr. Grewgious , 'it has a dreadfully appropriate name . 
It is called The Thorn of Anxiety . 
But Mr. Bazzard hopes and I hope that it will come out at last . 
I may digest it the better , if I sleep on it to night . 
Rosa , composed now , gave him a faithful account of the interview . 
Mr. Grewgious often smoothed his head while it was in progress , and begged to be told a second time those parts which bore on Helena and Neville . 
When Rosa had finished , he sat grave , silent , and meditative for a while . 
'Clearly narrated , was his only remark at last , 'and , I hope , clearly put away here , smoothing his head again . 
'See , my dear , taking her to the open window , 'where they live ! The dark windows over yonder . 
'I may go to Helena to morrow ? asked Rosa . 
'I should like to sleep on that question to night , he answered doubtfully . 
'But let me take you to your own rest , for you must need it . 
across Holborn , and into Furnival's Inn . 
Rosa's room was airy , clean , comfortable , almost gay . 
, and Rosa tripped down the great many stairs again , to thank her guardian for his thoughtful and affectionate care of her . 
'Not at all , my dear , said Mr. Grewgious , infinitely gratified 'it is I who thank you for your charming confidence and for your charming company . 
, and I will come to you at ten o'clock in the morning . 
I hope you don't feel very strange indeed , in this strange place . 
'I did not mean that , Rosa replied . 
'I mean , I feel so safe from him . 
CHAPTER XXI A RECOGNITION NOTHING occurred in the night to flutter the tired dove and the dove arose refreshed . 
With Mr. Grewgious , when the clock struck ten in the morning , came Mr. Crisparkle , who had come at one plunge out of the river at Cloisterham . 
I wished at the time that you had come to me but now I think it best that you did AS you did , and came to your guardian . 
'I did think of you , Rosa told him 'but Minor Canon Corner was so near him 'I understand . 
'I have told Mr. Crisparkle , said Mr. Grewgious , 'all that you told me last night , my dear . 
Of course I should have written it to him immediately but his coming was most opportune . 
And it was particularly kind of him to come , for he had but just gone . 
If no such gentleman were there , he begged pardon for being mistaken . 
'Such a gentleman is here , said Mr. Crisparkle , 'but is engaged just now . 
'Is it a dark gentleman ? interposed Rosa , retreating on her guardian . 
'No , Miss , more of a brown gentleman . 
'You are sure not with black hair ? asked Rosa , taking courage . 
'Quite sure of that , Miss . 
Brown hair and blue eyes . 
'Perhaps , hinted Mr. Grewgious , with habitual caution , 'it might be well to see him , reverend sir , if you don't object . 
When one is in a difficulty or at a loss , one never knows in what direction a way out may chance to open . 
It is a business principle of mine , in such a case , not to close up any direction , but to keep an eye on every direction that may present itself . 
I could relate an anecdote in point , but that it would be premature . 
'If Miss Rosa will allow me , then ? Let the gentleman come in , said Mr. Crisparkle . 
The gentleman saw a struggling recollection lighten up the Minor Canon's features , and smiling again , said 'What will you have for breakfast this morning ? You are out of jam . 
'Wait a moment ! cried Mr. Crisparkle , raising his right hand . 
'My old fag ! said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'My old master ! said Mr. Tartar . 
'You saved me from drowning ! said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'After which you took to swimming , you know ! said Mr. Tartar . 
'God bless my soul ! said Mr. Crisparkle . 
'Amen ! said Mr. Tartar . 
And then they fell to shaking hands most heartily again . 
'Hem ! Permit me , sir , to have the honour , said Mr. Grewgious , advancing with extended hand , 'for an honour I truly esteem it . 
I am proud to make your acquaintance . 
I hope you didn't take cold . 
I hope you were not inconvenienced by swallowing too much water . 
'You are right so far . 
'I am right so far , said Mr. Grewgious . 
'Tick that off which he did , with his right thumb on his left . 
'Tick that off , said Mr. Grewgious , taking another trot , and then coming back . 
'No personal knowledge , I suppose , sir ? 'Slight , but some . 
'Tick that off , said Mr. Grewgious , taking another trot , and again coming back . 
'Would you have the kindness to take seats ? said Mr. Grewgious . 
sneaks to and fro , and dodges up and down . 
When not doing so himself , he may have some informant skulking about , in the person of a watchman , porter , or such like hanger on of Staple . 
should privately know from Miss Rosa's lips what has occurred , and what has been threatened . 
Am I agreed with generally in the views I take ? 'I entirely coincide with them , said Mr. Crisparkle , who had been very attentive . 
'As I have no doubt I should , added Mr. Tartar , smiling , 'if I understood them . 
'Fair and softly , sir , said Mr. Grewgious 'we shall fully confide in you directly , if you will favour us with your permission . 
He reporting , to our local friend , who comes and goes there , our local friend would supply for himself , from his own previous knowledge , the identity of the parties . 
Nobody can be set to watch all Staple , or to concern himself with comers and goers to other sets of chambers unless , indeed , mine . 
'I begin to understand to what you tend , said Mr. Crisparkle , 'and highly approve of your caution . 
'There ! cried Mr. Grewgious , smoothing his head triumphantly , 'now we have all got the idea . 
You have it , my dear ? 'I think I have , said Rosa , blushing a little as Mr. Tartar looked quickly towards her . 
'I am very much afraid I shall be 'Be what , my dear ? asked Mr. Grewgious , as she hesitated . 
'Not frightened ? 'No , not that , said Rosa , shyly 'in Mr. Tartar's way . 
We seem to be appropriating Mr. Tartar's residence so very coolly . 
'I protest to you , returned that gentleman , 'that I shall think the better of it for evermore , if your voice sounds in it only once . 
Mr. Tartar gave his arm to Rosa , and Mr. Crisparkle walked , detached , in front . 
'Poor , poor Eddy ! thought Rosa , as they went along . 
Mr. Tartar waved his right hand as he bent his head down over Rosa , talking in an animated way . 
'It was not so powerful or so sun browned when it saved Mr. Crisparkle , thought Rosa , glancing at it 'but it must have been very steady and determined even then . 
Mr. Tartar told her he had been a sailor , roving everywhere for years and years . 
'When are you going to sea again ? asked Rosa . 
'Never ! Rosa wondered what the girls would say if they could see her crossing the wide street on the sailor's arm . 
to his garden in the air , and seemed to get into a marvellous country that came into sudden bloom like the country on the summit of the magic bean stalk . 
May it flourish for ever ! CHAPTER XXII A GRITTY STATE OF THINGS COMES ON MR . 
TARTAR'S chambers were the neatest , the cleanest , and the best ordered chambers ever seen under the sun , moon , and stars . 
The floors were scrubbed to that extent , that you might have supposed the London blacks emancipated for ever , and gone out of the land for good . 
Every inch of brass work in Mr. Tartar's possession was polished and burnished , till it shone like a brazen mirror . 
No speck , nor spot , nor spatter soiled the purity of any of Mr. Tartar's household gods , large , small , or middle sized . 
So with the curiosities he had brought home from various voyages . 
Paint and varnish seemed to be kept somewhere out of sight , in constant readiness to obliterate stray finger marks wherever any might become perceptible in Mr. Tartar's chambers . 
No man of war was ever kept more spick and span from careless touch . 
, that it was charming to see and hear Mr. Tartar half laughing at , and half rejoicing in , his various contrivances . 
'Helena ! Helena Landless ! Are you there ? 'Who speaks to me ? Not Rosa ? Then a second handsome face appearing . 
Are blushes among the fruits of the country of the magic bean stalk ? 'I am not dreaming , said Helena , smiling . 
'I should take more for granted if I were . 
But Rosa , waking , told in a hurry how they came to be together , and all the why and wherefore of that matter . 
'Yes , but it wasn't Crisparkle , said Rosa , quickly putting in the correction . 
'I don't understand , love . 
'It was very nice of Mr. Crisparkle to be saved , said Rosa , 'and he couldn't have shown his high opinion of Mr. Tartar more expressively . 
But it was Mr. Tartar who saved him . 
It is such a beautiful place ! 'Is it ? 'It is like the inside of the most exquisite ship that ever sailed . 
It is like it is like 'Like a dream ? suggested Helena . 
Rosa answered with a little nod , and smelled the flowers . 
to compassionate somebody 'My poor Neville is reading in his own room , the sun being so very bright on this side just now . 
I think he had better not know that you are so near . 
'O , I think so too ! cried Rosa very readily . 
'I suppose , pursued Helena , doubtfully , 'that he must know by and by all you have told me but I am not sure . 
Ask Mr. Crisparkle's advice , my darling . 
Ask him whether I may tell Neville as much or as little of what you have told me as I think best . 
Rosa subsided into her state cabin , and propounded the question . 
The Minor Canon was for the free exercise of Helena's judgment . 
'I thank him very much , said Helena , when Rosa emerged again with her report . 
across the quadrangle to P. J. T. 's , and stated it . 
Thus advised , Mr. Crisparkle came back again and reported to Rosa , who in her turn reported to Helena . 
She now steadily pursuing her train of thought at her window , considered thereupon . 
'We may count on Mr. Tartar's readiness to help us , Rosa ? she inquired . 
O yes ! Rosa shyly thought so . 
O yes , Rosa shyly believed she could almost answer for it . 
'Something might come of it , dear ? repeated Rosa , surveying her friend's beauty with a highly perplexed face . 
'I see ! cried Rosa . 
And immediately darted into her state cabin again . 
'I thank him from my heart , said Helena . 
'And now , darling , said Helena , 'we will be mindful of the caution that has restricted us to this interview for the present , and will part . 
I hear Neville moving too . 
Are you going back ? 'To Miss Twinkleton's ? asked Rosa . 
'O , I could never go there any more . 
I couldn't indeed , after that dreadful interview ! said Rosa . 
'Then where ARE you going , pretty one ? 'Now I come to think of it , I don't know , said Rosa . 
'I have settled nothing at all yet , but my guardian will take care of me . 
Don't be uneasy , dear . 
I shall be sure to be somewhere . 
'And I shall hear of my Rosebud from Mr. Tartar ? inquired Helena . 
'Yes , I suppose so from Rosa looked back again in a flutter , instead of supplying the name . 
'But tell me one thing before we part , dearest Helena . 
Tell me that you are sure , sure , sure , I couldn't help it . 
'Help it , love ? 'Help making him malicious and revengeful . 
appear among the flowers and leaves , and help her friend out of sight . 
The refection that Mr. Tartar produced in the Admiral's Cabin by merely touching the spring knob of a locker and the handle of a drawer , was a dazzling enchanted repast . 
Wonderful macaroons , glittering liqueurs , magically preserved tropical spices , and jellies of celestial tropical fruits , displayed themselves profusely at an instant's notice . 
'And afterwards , said Mr. Grewgious , 'we should be no worse off than we are now . 
'I think that might smooth the way , assented Rosa . 
'Then let us , said Mr. Grewgious , rising , 'go and look for a furnished lodging . 
Nothing could be more acceptable to me than the sweet presence of last evening , for all the remaining evenings of my existence but these are not fit surroundings for a young lady . 
Let us set out in quest of adventures , and look for a furnished lodging . 
In the meantime , Mr. Crisparkle here , about to return home immediately , will no doubt kindly see Miss Twinkleton , and invite that lady to co operate in our plan . 
Mr. Crisparkle , willingly accepting the commission , took his departure Mr. Grewgious and his ward set forth on their expedition . 
This lady's name , stated in uncompromising capitals of considerable size on a brass door plate , and yet not lucidly as to sex or condition , was BILLICKIN . 
Personal faintness , and an overpowering personal candour , were the distinguishing features of Mrs. Billickin's organisation . 
She came languishing out of her own exclusive back parlour , with the air of having been expressly brought to for the purpose , from an accumulation of several swoons . 
'I hope I see you well , sir , said Mrs. Billickin , recognising her visitor with a bend . 
'Thank you , quite well . 
And you , ma'am ? returned Mr. Grewgious . 
'I am as well , said Mrs. Billickin , becoming aspirational with excess of faintness , 'as I hever ham . 
'My ward and an elderly lady , said Mr. Grewgious , 'wish to find a genteel lodging for a month or so . 
Have you any apartments available , ma'am ? 'Mr . 
Grewgious , returned Mrs. Billickin , 'I will not deceive you far from it . 
This with the air of adding 'Convey me to the stake , if you will but while I live , I will be candid . 
'And now , what apartments , ma'am ? asked Mr. Grewgious , cosily . 
To tame a certain severity apparent on the part of Mrs. Billickin . 
I do not tell you that your bedroom floors is firm , for firm they are not . 
The piping is carried above your jistes , and it is best that it should be made known to you . 
Mr. Grewgious and Rosa exchanged looks of some dismay , though they had not the least idea what latent horrors this carriage of the piping might involve . 
Mrs. Billickin put her hand to her heart , as having eased it of a load . 
'Well ! The roof is all right , no doubt , said Mr. Grewgious , plucking up a little . 
Here Mrs. Billickin , having been warm with Mr. Grewgious , cooled a little , not to abuse the moral power she held over him . 
No , sir , I will not be so underhand . 
I DO understand you before you pint it out . 
It is the wet , sir . 
It do come in , and it do not come in . 
Mr. Grewgious looked much disgraced by being prefigured in this pickle . 
'Have you any other apartments , ma'am ? he asked . 
Grewgious , returned Mrs. Billickin , with much solemnity , 'I have . 
You ask me have I , and my open and my honest answer air , I have . 
The first and second floors is wacant , and sweet rooms . 
'Come , come ! There's nothing against THEM , said Mr. Grewgious , comforting himself . 
Grewgious , replied Mrs. Billickin , 'pardon me , there is the stairs . 
Unless your mind is prepared for the stairs , it will lead to inevitable disappointment . 
You cannot , Miss , said Mrs. Billickin , addressing Rosa reproachfully , 'place a first floor , and far less a second , on the level footing 'of a parlour . 
'Can we see these rooms , ma'am ? inquired her guardian . 
Grewgious , returned Mrs. Billickin , 'you can . 
I will not disguise it from you , sir you can . 
, and having been enrolled by her attendant , led the way . 
'And the second floor ? said Mr. Grewgious , on finding the first satisfactory . 
'Can we see that too , ma'am ? 'Yes , sir , returned Mrs. Billickin , 'it is open as the day . 
In the meantime Mrs. Billickin took a seat , and delivered a kind of Index to , or Abstract of , the general question . 
'Five and forty shillings per week by the month certain at the time of year , said Mrs. Billickin , 'is only reasonable to both parties . 
It is not Bond Street nor yet St . 
James's Palace but it is not pretended that it is . 
Neither is it attempted to be denied for why should it ? that the Arching leads to a mews . 
Respecting attendance two is kep' , at liberal wages . 
Words HAS arisen as to tradesmen , but dirty shoes on fresh hearth stoning was attributable , and no wish for a commission on your orders . 
Coals is either BY the fire , or PER the scuttle . 
She emphasised the prepositions as marking a subtle but immense difference . 
'Dogs is not viewed with favour . 
Besides litter , they gets stole , and sharing suspicions is apt to creep in , and unpleasantness takes place . 
By this time Mr. Grewgious had his agreement lines , and his earnest money , ready . 
'I have signed it for the ladies , ma'am , he said , 'and you'll have the goodness to sign it for yourself , Christian and Surname , there , if you please . 
Grewgious , said Mrs. Billickin in a new burst of candour , 'no , sir ! You must excuse the Christian name . 
Mr. Grewgious stared at her . 
'The door plate is used as a protection , said Mrs. Billickin , 'and acts as such , and go from it I will not . 
Mr. Grewgious stared at Rosa . 
'No , Mr. Grewgious , you must excuse me . 
Rosa reddening as if she had made some most disgraceful attempt to overreach the good lady , besought Mr. Grewgious to rest content with any signature . 
And accordingly , in a baronial way , the sign manual BILLICKIN got appended to the document . 
Details were then settled for taking possession on the next day but one , when Miss Twinkleton might be reasonably expected and Rosa went back to Furnival's Inn on her guardian's arm . 
I have a boat of my own at the Temple Stairs . 
'I have not been up the river for this many a day , said Mr. Grewgious , tempted . 
'I was never up the river , added Rosa . 
Within half an hour they were setting this matter right by going up the river . 
The tide was running with them , the afternoon was charming . 
Mr. Tartar's boat was perfect . 
Mr. Tartar and Lobley pulled a pair of oars . 
Mr. Tartar had a yacht , it seemed , lying somewhere down by Greenhithe and Mr. Tartar's man had charge of this yacht , and was detached upon his present service . 
He was a jolly favoured man , with tawny hair and whiskers , and a big red face . 
He was the dead image of the sun in old woodcuts , his hair and whiskers answering for rays all around him . 
Lobley seemed to take it easily , and so did Mr. Tartar yet their oars bent as they pulled , and the boat bounded under them . 
Forth from her back parlour issued the Billickin to receive Miss Twinkleton , and War was in the Billickin's eye from that fell moment . 
Miss Twinkleton brought a quantity of luggage with her , having all Rosa's as well as her own . 
Stateliness mounted her gloomy throne upon the Billickin's brow in consequence . 
No , I am 'ily obleeged to you , Miss Twinkleton , nor yet a beggar . 
This last disclaimer had reference to Miss Twinkleton's distractedly pressing two and sixpence on her , instead of the cabman . 
The Billickin beheld this manifestation of weakness without sympathy , and gave directions for 'a young man to be got in' to wrestle with the luggage . 
When that gladiator had disappeared from the arena , peace ensued , and the new lodgers dined . 
But the Billickin had somehow come to the knowledge that Miss Twinkleton kept a school . 
The leap from that knowledge to the inference that Miss Twinkleton set herself to teach HER something , was easy . 
Though not Professed but Plain , still her wages should be a sufficient object to her to stimilate to soar above mere roast and biled . 
'We dined very well indeed , said Rosa , 'thank you . 
'Very likely , said Miss Twinkleton , still from her distant eminence 'and very much to be deplored . 
'Do not , if you please , put suppositions betwixt my lips where none such have been imparted by myself . 
Your flow of words is great , Miss Twinkleton , and no doubt is expected from you by your pupils , and no doubt is considered worth the money . 
NO doubt , I am sure . 
But not paying for flows of words , and not asking to be favoured with them here , I wish to repeat my question . 
'If you refer to the poverty of your circulation , began Miss Twinkleton , when again the Billickin neatly stopped her . 
'I have used no such expressions . 
I cannot forbear adding , that if that unfortunate circumstance influences your conversation , it is much to be lamented , and it is eminently desirable that your blood were richer . 
I know no elderly lady here , Miss , none older than yourself . 
'A highly desirable arrangement , Rosa my dear , observed Miss Twinkleton . 
, but that I limit myself to you totally . 
'Good evening , Miss , said the Billickin , at once affectionately and distantly . 
The Billickin gracefully withdrew with this parting speech , and from that time Rosa occupied the restless position of shuttlecock between these two battledores . 
Nothing could be done without a smart match being played out . 
, 'If you was better accustomed to butcher's meat , Miss , you would not entertain the idea of a lamb's fry . 
Firstly , because lambs has long been sheep , and secondly , because there is such things as killing days , and there is not . 
Try a little inwention , Miss . 
Use yourself to 'ousekeeping a bit . 
Come now , think of somethink else . 
Think more of yourself , and less of others . 
A dish of sweetbreads now , or a bit of mutton . 
Something at which you can get your equal chance . 
Occasionally the game would wax very brisk indeed , and would be kept up with a smartness rendering such an encounter as this quite tame . 
But the Billickin almost invariably made by far the higher score and would come in with side hits of the most unexpected and extraordinary description , when she seemed without a chance . 
All this did not improve the gritty state of things in London , or the air that London had acquired in Rosa's eyes of waiting for something that never came . 
Tired of working , and conversing with Miss Twinkleton , she suggested working and reading to which Miss Twinkleton readily assented , as an admirable reader , of tried powers . 
But Rosa soon made the discovery that Miss Twinkleton didn't read fairly . 
She cut the love scenes , interpolated passages in praise of female celibacy , and was guilty of other glaring pious frauds . 
The pretty girl might have lost them but for the accident of lighting on some books of voyages and sea adventure . 
while Rosa , listening intently , made the most of what was nearest to her heart . 
So they both did better than before . 
It is not likely that they ever met , though so often , without the thoughts of each reverting to the subject . 
It is not likely that they ever met , though so often , without a sensation on the part of each that the other was a perplexing secret to him . 
But neither ever broached the theme . 
False pretence not being in the Minor Canon's nature , he doubtless displayed openly that he would at any time have revived the subject , and even desired to discuss it . 
The determined reticence of Jasper , however , was not to be so approached . 
This indeed he had confided to his lost nephew , before the occasion for his present inflexibility arose . 
That he must know of Rosa's abrupt departure , and that he must divine its cause , was not to be doubted . 
The dreadful suspicion of Jasper , which Rosa was so shocked to have received into her imagination , appeared to have no harbour in Mr. Crisparkle's . 
If it ever haunted Helena's thoughts or Neville's , neither gave it one spoken word of utterance . 
Mr. Grewgious took no pains to conceal his implacable dislike of Jasper , yet he never referred it , however distantly , to such a source . 
It then lifted up its head , to notice that the bereaved Jasper was still ever devoted to discovery and revenge and then dozed off again . 
This was the condition of matters , all round , at the period to which the present history has now attained . 
The Cathedral doors have closed for the night and the Choir master , on a short leave of absence for two or three services , sets his face towards London . 
He travels thither by the means by which Rosa travelled , and arrives , as Rosa arrived , on a hot , dusty evening . 
It is hotel , boarding house , or lodging house , at its visitor's option . 
It announces itself , in the new Railway Advertisers , as a novel enterprise , timidly beginning to spring up . 
He eats without appetite , and soon goes forth again . 
Eastward and still eastward through the stale streets he takes his way , until he reaches his destination a miserable court , specially miserable among many such . 
'Come in , come in , whoever you be I can't see you till I light a match , yet I seem to know the sound of your speaking . 
I'm acquainted with you , ain't I ? 'Light your match , and try . 
'So I will , deary , so I will but my hand that shakes , as I can't lay it on a match all in a moment . 
And I cough so , that , put my matches where I may , I never find 'em there . 
They jump and start , as I cough and cough , like live things . 
Are you off a voyage , deary ? 'No . 
'Well , there's land customers , and there's water customers . 
I'm a mother to both . 
Different from Jack Chinaman t'other side the court . 
He ain't a father to neither . 
And he ain't got the true secret of mixing , though he charges as much as me that has , and more if he can get it . 
Here's a match , and now where's the candle ? If my cough takes me , I shall cough out twenty matches afore I gets a light . 
But she finds the candle , and lights it , before the cough comes on . 
I thought you was dead , and gone to Heaven . 
'Why ? 'I didn't suppose you could have kept away , alive , so long , from the poor old soul with the real receipt for mixing it . 
'Died of what , lovey ? 'Probably , Death . 
'We are short to night ! cries the woman , with a propitiatory laugh . 
'Short and snappish we are ! But we're out of sorts for want of a smoke . 
We've got the all overs , haven't us , deary ? But this is the place to cure 'em in this is the place where the all overs is smoked off . 
'You may make ready , then , replies the visitor , 'as soon as you like . 
He divests himself of his shoes , loosens his cravat , and lies across the foot of the squalid bed , with his head resting on his left hand . 
'Now you begin to look like yourself , says the woman approvingly . 
'Never take it your own way . 
It ain't good for trade , and it ain't good for you . 
When he speaks , he does so without looking at her , and as if his thoughts were already roaming away by anticipation . 
'I've got a pretty many smokes ready for you , first and last , haven't I , chuckey ? 'A good many . 
'When you first come , you was quite new to it warn't ye ? 'Yes , I was easily disposed of , then . 
'But you got on in the world , and was able by and by to take your pipe with the best of 'em , warn't ye ? 'Ah and the worst . 
'It's just ready for you . 
What a sweet singer you was when you first come ! Used to drop your head , and sing yourself off like a bird ! It's ready for you now , deary . 
He takes it from her with great care , and puts the mouthpiece to his lips . 
She seats herself beside him , ready to refill the pipe . 
'You've got more used to it , you see . 
'That may be the cause , certainly . 
He stops , becomes dreamy , and seems to forget that he has invited her attention . 
She bends over him , and speaks in his ear . 
Says you just now , Look here . 
Says I now , I'm attending to ye . 
We was talking just before of your being used to it . 
Suppose you had something in your mind something you were going to do . 
'Yes , deary something I was going to do ? 'But had not quite determined to do . 
'Might or might not do , you understand . 
With the point of a needle she stirs the contents of the bowl . 
'Should you do it in your fancy , when you were lying here doing this ? She nods her head . 
'Just like me ! I did it over and over again . 
I have done it hundreds of thousands of times in this room . 
'It's to be hoped it was pleasant to do , deary . 
'It WAS pleasant to do ! He says this with a savage air , and a spring or start at her . 
Quite unmoved she retouches and replenishes the contents of the bowl with her little spatula . 
Seeing her intent upon the occupation , he sinks into his former attitude . 
'It was a journey , a difficult and dangerous journey . 
That was the subject in my mind . 
A hazardous and perilous journey , over abysses where a slip would be destruction . 
The woman looks at him , as his spasmodic face approaches close to hers , and not at his pointing . 
She seems to know what the influence of her perfect quietude would be if so , she has not miscalculated it , for he subsides again . 
'Well I have told you I did it here hundreds of thousands of times . 
What do I say ? I did it millions and billions of times . 
I did it so often , and through such vast expanses of time , that when it was really done , it seemed not worth the doing , it was done so soon . 
'That's the journey you have been away upon , she quietly remarks . 
He glares at her as he smokes and then , his eyes becoming filmy , answers 'That's the journey . 
His eyes are sometimes closed and sometimes open . 
The woman sits beside him , very attentive to the pipe , which is all the while at his lips . 
'Always in the same way ? 'Ay . 
'In the way in which it was really made at last ? 'Ay . 
'And always took the same pleasure in harping on it ? 'Ay . 
For the time he appears unequal to any other reply than this lazy monosyllabic assent . 
Probably to assure herself that it is not the assent of a mere automaton , she reverses the form of her next sentence . 
You was too quick for me . 
You come o' purpose to take the journey . 
Why , I might have known it , through its standing by you so . 
He answers first with a laugh , and then with a passionate setting of his teeth 'Yes , I came on purpose . 
When I could not bear my life , I came to get the relief , and I got it . 
It WAS one ! It WAS one ! This repetition with extraordinary vehemence , and the snarl of a wolf . 
She observes him very cautiously , as though mentally feeling her way to her next remark . 
It is 'There was a fellow traveller , deary . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! He breaks into a ringing laugh , or rather yell . 
In this crouching attitude she watches him . 
The pipe is falling from his mouth . 
She puts it back , and laying her hand upon his chest , moves him slightly from side to side . 
Upon that he speaks , as if she had spoken . 
'Yes ! I always made the journey first , before the changes of colours and the great landscapes and glittering processions began . 
They couldn't begin till it was off my mind . 
I had no room till then for anything else . 
Once more he lapses into silence . 
Once more she lays her hand upon his chest , and moves him slightly to and fro , as a cat might stimulate a half slain mouse . 
Once more he speaks , as if she had spoken . 
'What ? I told you so . 
When it comes to be real at last , it is so short that it seems unreal for the first time . 
Hark ! 'Yes , deary . 
'Time and place are both at hand . 
He is on his feet , speaking in a whisper , and as if in the dark . 
'Time , place , and fellow traveller , she suggests , adopting his tone , and holding him softly by the arm . 
'How could the time be at hand unless the fellow traveller was ? Hush ! The journey's made . 
'So soon ? 'That's what I said to you . 
I shall sleep it off . 
It has been too short and easy . 
I must have a better vision than this this is the poorest of all . 
No struggle , no consciousness of peril , no entreaty and yet I never saw THAT before . 
'Saw what , deary ? 'Look at it ! Look what a poor , mean , miserable thing it is ! THAT must be real . 
He has accompanied this incoherence with some wild unmeaning gestures but they trail off into the progressive inaction of stupor , and he lies a log upon the bed . 
The woman , however , is still inquisitive . 
With a repetition of her cat like action she slightly stirs his body again , and listens stirs again , and listens whispers to it , and listens . 
But she goes no further away from it than the chair upon the hearth . 
She sits in it , with an elbow on one of its arms , and her chin upon her hand , intent upon him . 
You may be more right there . 
I may have learned the secret how to make ye talk , deary . 
He talks no more , whether or no . 
Twitching in an ugly way from time to time , both as to his face and limbs , he lies heavy and silent . 
At length what remains of the last candle is blown out , and daylight looks into the room . 
It has not looked very long , when he sits up , chilled and shaking , slowly recovers consciousness of where he is , and makes himself ready to depart . 
But seeming may be false or true . 
With a weird peep from the doorway , she watches for his looking back . 
He does not look back before disappearing , with a wavering step . 
She follows him , peeps from the court , sees him still faltering on without looking back , and holds him in view . 
He repairs to the back of Aldersgate Street , where a door immediately opens to his knocking . 
She crouches in another doorway , watching that one , and easily comprehending that he puts up temporarily at that house . 
Her patience is unexhausted by hours . 
For sustenance she can , and does , buy bread within a hundred yards , and milk as it is carried past her . 
He comes forth again at noon , having changed his dress , but carrying nothing in his hand , and having nothing carried for him . 
He is not going back into the country , therefore , just yet . 
She follows him a little way , hesitates , instantaneously turns confidently , and goes straight into the house he has quitted . 
'Is the gentleman from Cloisterham indoors ? 'Just gone out . 
When does the gentleman return to Cloisterham ? 'At six this evening . 
'Bless ye and thank ye . 
'I lost ye last , where that omnibus you got into nigh your journey's end plied betwixt the station and the place . 
I wasn't so much as certain that you even went right on to the place . 
Now I know ye did . 
My gentleman from Cloisterham , I'll be there before ye , and bide your coming . 
'Now let me see what becomes of you . 
'Halloa ! he cries in a low voice , seeing her brought to a stand still 'who are you looking for ? 'There was a gentleman passed in here this minute , sir . 
What do you want with him ? 'Where do he live , deary ? 'Live ? Up that staircase . 
What's his name , deary ? 'Surname Jasper , Christian name John . 
'Has he a calling , good gentleman ? 'Calling ? Yes . 
'In the spire ? 'Choir . 
'What's that ? Mr. Datchery rises from his papers , and comes to his doorstep . 
'Do you know what a cathedral is ? he asks , jocosely . 
Go in there at seven to morrow morning , and you may see Mr. John Jasper , and hear him too . 
'Thank ye ! Thank ye ! The burst of triumph in which she thanks him does not escape the notice of the single buffer of an easy temper living idly on his means . 
He glances at her clasps his hands behind him , as the wont of such buffers is and lounges along the echoing Precincts at her side . 
'Or , he suggests , with a backward hitch of his head , 'you can go up at once to Mr. Jasper's rooms there . 
The woman eyes him with a cunning smile , and shakes her head . 
'O ! you don't want to speak to him ? She repeats her dumb reply , and forms with her lips a soundless 'No . 
'You can admire him at a distance three times a day , whenever you like . 
It's a long way to come for that , though . 
The woman looks up quickly . 
If Mr. Datchery thinks she is to be so induced to declare where she comes from , he is of a much easier temper than she is . 
The chink of the money has an attraction for her greedy ears . 
'You know the travellers' lodging , I perceive , and are making directly for it , is Mr. Datchery's bland comment , still rattling his loose money . 
'Been here often , my good woman ? 'Once in all my life . 
'Ay , ay ? They have arrived at the entrance to the Monks' Vineyard . 
An appropriate remembrance , presenting an exemplary model for imitation , is revived in the woman's mind by the sight of the place . 
I asked him for three and sixpence , and he gave it me . 
'Wasn't it a little cool to name your sum ? hints Mr. Datchery , still rattling . 
I told the young gentleman so , and he gave it me , and I laid it out honest to the last brass farden . 
Mr. Datchery , with a sudden change of countenance , gives her a sudden look . 
And it's like a human creetur so far , that you always hear what can be said against it , but seldom what can be said in its praise . 
Mr. Datchery begins very slowly to count out the sum demanded of him . 
Greedily watching his hands , she continues to hold forth on the great example set him . 
'It was last Christmas Eve , just arter dark , the once that I was here afore , when the young gentleman gave me the three and six . 
Mr. Datchery stops in his counting , finds he has counted wrong , shakes his money together , and begins again . 
'And the young gentleman's name , she adds , 'was Edwin . 
I only asked him the two questions , what was his Chris'en name , and whether he'd a sweetheart ? And he answered , Edwin , and he hadn't . 
Mr. Datchery pauses with the selected coins in his hand , rather as if he were falling into a brown study of their value , and couldn't bear to part with them . 
John Jasper's lamp is kindled , and his lighthouse is shining when Mr. Datchery returns alone towards it . 
His object in now revisiting his lodging is merely to put on the hat which seems so superfluous an article in his wardrobe . 
In effect , that Power of Evil is abroad . 
Having nothing living to stone at the moment , he is discovered by Mr. Datchery in the unholy office of stoning the dead , through the railings of the churchyard . 
Mr. Datchery hails with him 'Halloa , Winks ! He acknowledges the hail with 'Halloa , Dick ! Their acquaintance seemingly having been established on a familiar footing . 
'But , I say , he remonstrates , 'don't yer go a making my name public . 
I never means to plead to no name , mind yer . 
When they says to me in the Lock up , a going to put me down in the book , What's your name ? I says to them , Find out . 
Likewise when they says , What's your religion ? I says , Find out . 
Which , it may be observed in passing , it would be immensely difficult for the State , however statistical , to do . 
'Asides which , adds the boy , 'there ain't no family of Winkses . 
'I think there must be . 
'Yer lie , there ain't . 
The travellers give me the name on account of my getting no settled sleep and being knocked up all night whereby I gets one eye roused open afore I've shut the other . 
Deputy's the nighest name to indict me by but yer wouldn't catch me pleading to that , neither . 
'Deputy be it always , then . 
We two are good friends eh , Deputy ? 'Jolly good . 
What did he go a histing me off my legs for ? 'What indeed ! But never mind him now . 
A shilling of mine is going your way to night , Deputy . 
You have just taken in a lodger I have been speaking to an infirm woman with a cough . 
'What is her name ? ''Er Royal Highness the Princess Puffer . 
'She has some other name than that where does she live ? 'Up in London . 
'The sailors ? 'I said so Jacks and Chayner men and hother Knifers . 
'I should like to know , through you , exactly where she lives . 
A shilling passes and , in that spirit of confidence which should pervade all business transactions between principals of honour , this piece of business is considered done . 
'But here's a lark ! cries Deputy . 
'How do you know that , Deputy ? 'Cos she told me so just now . 
She said she must be hup and hout o' purpose . 
Mr. Datchery receives the communication with a well satisfied though pondering face , and breaks up the conference . 
At length he rises , throws open the door of a corner cupboard , and refers to a few uncouth chalked strokes on its inner side . 
'I like , says Mr. Datchery , 'the old tavern way of keeping scores . 
Illegible except to the scorer . 
The scorer not committed , the scored debited with what is against him . 
A brilliant morning shines on the old city . 
Its antiquities and ruins are surpassingly beautiful , with a lusty ivy gleaming in the sun , and the rich trees waving in the balmy air . 
The cold stone tombs of centuries ago grow warm and flecks of brightness dart into the sternest marble corners of the building , fluttering there like wings . 
Comes Mr. Tope with his large keys , and yawningly unlocks and sets open . 
Come Mrs. Tope and attendant sweeping sprites . 
Come a very small and straggling congregation indeed chiefly from Minor Canon Corner and the Precincts . 
Come Mr. Crisparkle , fresh and bright and his ministering brethren , not quite so fresh and bright . 
, and comes John Jasper leading their line . 
Last of all comes Mr. Datchery into a stall , one of a choice empty collection very much at his service , and glancing about him for Her Royal Highness the Princess Puffer . 
The service is pretty well advanced before Mr. Datchery can discern Her Royal Highness . 
But by that time he has made her out , in the shade . 
She is behind a pillar , carefully withdrawn from the Choir master's view , but regards him with the closest attention . 
All unconscious of her presence , he chants and sings . 
She grins when he is most musically fervid , and yes , Mr. Datchery sees her do it ! shakes her fist at him behind the pillar's friendly shelter . 
Mr. Datchery looks again , to convince himself . 
, she hugs herself in her lean arms , and then shakes both fists at the leader of the Choir . 
The service comes to an end , and the servitors disperse to breakfast . 
You have seen him ? 'I'VE seen him , deary I'VE seen him ! 'And you know him ? 'Know him ! Better far than all the Reverend Parsons put together know him . 
Mrs. Tope's care has spread a very neat , clean breakfast ready for her lodger . 
