th Century A. D. Originally written in Old French , sometime in the second half of the th Century A. D. , by the court poet Chretien DeTroyes . 
This electronic edition was edited , proofed , and prepared by Douglas B. Killings , November . 
Original text with English translation . 
Original text with English translation . 
Micha , Alexandre Les Romans de Chretien de Troyes , Vol . 
Contains translations of Erec et Enide , Cliges , Yvain , Lancelot , and DeTroyes' incomplete Perceval . 
NOTE This edition replaced W. W. Comfort's in the Everyman Library catalogue . 
English translation of one of the earliest prose romances concerning Lancelot . 
Contains a translation of Geraint and Enid , an earlier Welsh version of Erec et Enide . 
Anonymous Yvain and Gawain , Sir Percyvell of Gales , and The Anturs of Arther . 
NOTE Texts are in Middle English Yvain and Gawain is a Middle English work based almost exclusively on Chretien DeTroyes' Yvain . 
At the same time the want of public familiarity with Chretien's work is due to the almost complete lack of translations of his romances into the modern tongues . 
The man who , so far as we know , first recounted the romantic adventures of Arthur's knights , Gawain . 
Yvain , Erec , Lancelot , and Perceval , has been forgotten whereas posterity has been kinder to his debtors , Wolfram yon Eschenbach , Malory , Lord Tennyson , and Richard Wagner . 
Such extravagant claims for Chretien's art have been made in some quarters that one feels disinclined to give them even an echo here . 
The modem reader may form his own estimate of the poet's art , and that estimate will probably not be high . 
Chretien de Troyes wrote in Champagne during the third quarter of the twelfth century . 
at Troyes , where was the court of his patroness , the Countess Marie de Champagne . 
It appears from contemporary testimony that the authority of this celebrated feudal dame was weighty , and widely felt . 
The old city of Troyes , where she held her court , must be set down large in any map of literary history . 
For it was there that Chretien was led to write four romances which together form the most complete expression we possess from a single author of the ideals of French chivalry . 
These romances , written in eight syllable rhyming couplets , treat respectively of Erec and Enide , Cliges , Yvain , and Lancelot . 
Another poem , Perceval le Gallois , was composed about for Philip , Count of Flanders , to whom Chretien was attached during his last years . 
To have included this poem , of which he wrote less than one third , in the works of Chretien would have been unjust to him . 
The other three poems mentioned are his entire . 
All these are extant and accessible . 
Professor Foerster , basing his remark upon the best knowledge we possess of an obscure matter , has called Erec and Enide the oldest Arthurian romance extant . 
It is not possible to dispute this significant claim , but let us make it a little more intelligible . 
Scholarship has shown that from the early Middle Ages popular tradition was rife in Britain and Brittany . 
in their Latin histories about and respectively , and by the Anglo Norman poet Wace immediately afterward . 
Documents are lacking for the dark ages of popular tradition before the Norman Conquest , and the theorists may work their will . 
Never was literature in any age closer to the ideals of a social class . 
Be that as it may , it is proper to observe that the French romances of adventure portray late mediaeval aristocracy as it fain would be . 
For the glaring inconsistencies between the reality and the ideal , one may turn to the chronicles of the period . 
Yet , even history tells of many an ugly sin rebuked and of many a gallant deed performed because of the courteous ideals of chivalry . 
The debt of our own social code to this literature of courtesy and frequent self sacrifice is perfectly manifest . 
What Chretien's immediate and specific source was for his romances is of deep interest to the student . 
Unfortunately , he has left us in doubt . 
He speaks in the vaguest way of the materials he used . 
There is no evidence that he had any Celtic written source . 
We are thus thrown back upon Latin or French literary originals which are lost , or upon current continental lore going back to a Celtic source . 
This very difficult problem is as yet unsolved in the case of Chretien , as it is in the case of the Anglo Norman Beroul , who wrote of Tristan about . 
, and stories culled from the history or mythology of Greece and Rome , current in Latin and French translations . 
But he appears early to have chosen as his special field the stories of Celtic origin dealing with Arthur , the Round Table , and other features of Celtic folk lore . 
One would suppose that other stories , told before his versions , were current . 
Some critics would go so far as to maintain that Chretien came toward the close , rather than at the beginning , of a school of French writers of Arthurian romances . 
But , if so , we do not possess these earlier versions , and for lack of rivals Chretien may be hailed as an innovator in the current schools of poetry . 
And now let us consider the faults which a modern reader will not be slow to detect in Chretien's style . 
Most of his salient faults are common to all mediaeval narrative literature . 
The pastimes of this class of readers were jousting , hunting , and making love . 
Hence the preponderance of these matters in the literature of its leisure hours . 
And if some scenes seem to us indelicate , yet after comparison with other authors of his times , Chretien must be let off with a light sentence . 
It is certain he intended to avoid what was indecent , as did the writers of narrative poetry in general . 
For our poet's lack of sense of proportion , and for his carelessness in the proper motivation of many episodes , no apology can be made . 
He is not always guilty some episodes betoken poetic mastery . 
The emphasis is not always laid with discrimination , nor is his yarn always kept free of tangles in the spinning . 
Reference has been made to Chretien's use of his sources . 
The tendency of some critics has been to minimise the French poet's originality by pointing out striking analogies in classic and Celtic fable . 
These episodes are but examples of parallels which will occur to the observant reader . 
The difficult point to determine , in speaking of conceptions so widespread in classic and mediaeval literature , is the immediate source whence these conceptions reached Chretien . 
Any poet should be judged not as a finder but as a user of the common stock of ideas . 
On that count he may plead his own cause before the jury . 
Chretien's originality , then , consists in his portrayal of the social ideal of the French aristocracy in the twelfth century . 
Honour and love combined to engage the attention of this society these were its religion in a far more real sense than was that of the Church . 
Perfection was attainable under this code of ethics Gawain , for example , was a perfect knight . 
Though the ideals of this court and those of Christianity are in accord at many points , vet courtly love and Christian morality are irreconcilable . 
This Arthurian material , as used by Chretien , is fundamentally immoral as judged by Christian standards . 
Even Tennyson , in spite of all he has done to spiritualise this material , was compelled to portray the inevitable dissolution and ruin of Arthur's court . 
Chretien well knew the difference between right and wrong , between reason and passion , as the reader of Cliges may learn for himself . 
Fenice was not Iseut , and she would not have her Cliges to be a Tristan . 
Infidelity , if you will , but not menage a trois . 
Both Erec and Yvain present a conventional morality . 
But Lancelot is flagrantly immoral , and the poet is careful to state that for this particular romance he is indebted to his patroness Marie de Champagne . 
He says it was she who furnished him with both the matiere and the san , the material of the story and its method of treatment . 
Scholars have sought to fix the chronology of the poet's works , and have been tempted to speculate upon the evolution of his literary and moral ideas . 
, Erec and Enide , Cliges , Lancelot , Yvain , Perceval . 
The arguments for this chronology , based upon external as well as internal criticism , may be found in the Introductions to Professor Foerster's recent editions . 
When we speculate upon the development of Chretien's moral ideas we are not on such sure ground . 
As we have seen , his standards vary widely in the different romances . 
Lancelot must be the keystone of any theory constructed concerning the moral evolution of Chretien . 
The following supposition is tenable , if the chronology of Foerster is correct . 
Erec is the oldest Arthurinn romance to have survived in any language , but it is almost certainly not the first to have been written . 
It is a perfectly clean story of love , estrangement , and reconciliation in the persons of Erec and his charming sweetheart Enide . 
The psychological analysis of Erec's motives in the rude testing of Enide is worthy of attention , and is more subtle than anything previous in French literature with which we are acquainted . 
The poem is an episodical romance in the biography of an Arthurinn hero , with the usual amount of space given to his adventures . 
Cliges apparently connects a Byzantine tale of doubtful origin in an arbitrary fashion with the court of Arthur . 
This romance well illustrates the drawing power of Arthur's court as a literary centre , and its use as a rallying point for courteous knights of whatever extraction . 
Next may come Lancelot , with its significant dedication to the Countess of Champagne . 
Guillaime d'Angleterre is a pseudo historical romance of adventure in which the worldly distresses and the final reward of piety are conventionally exposed . 
It is uninspired , its place is difficult to determine , and its authorship is questioned by some . 
It is aside from the Arthurian material , and there is no clue to its place in the evolution of Chretien's art , if indeed it be his work . 
A few words must be devoted to Chretien's place in the history of mediaeval narrative poetry . 
Woman's place is comparatively obscure , and of love making there is little said . 
It is a poetry of vigorous manhood , of uncompromising morality , and of hard knocks given and taken for God , for Christendom , and the King of France . 
This poetry is written in ten or twelve sylabble verses grouped , at first in assonanced , later in rhymed , tirades of unequal length . 
It was intended for a society which was still homogeneous , and to it at the outset doubtless all classes of the population listened with equal interest . 
As poetry it is monotonous , without sense of proportion , padded to facilitate memorisation by professional reciters , and unadorned by figure , fancy , or imagination . 
Its pretention to historic accuracy begot prosaicness in its approach to the style of the chronicles . 
But its inspiration was noble , its conception of human duties was lofty . 
But the refinement which began to penetrate the ideals of the French aristocracy about the middle of the twelfth century craved a different expression in narrative literature . 
Greek and Roman mythology and history were seized upon with some effect to satisfy the new demand . 
The existence of the literary demand and this discovery of the material for its prompt satisfaction is one of the most remarkable coincidences in iiterary history . 
Arthur thus became already in Geoffrey's Historia regum Britaniae a conscious protagonist of Charlemagne and his rival in popularity . 
This grandiose conception of Arthur persisted in England , but this conception of the British chieftain did not interest the French . 
For Chretien Arthur had no political significance . 
He is simply the arbiter of his court in all affairs of justice and courtesy . 
Charlemagne's very realistic entourage of virile and busy barons is replaced by a court of elegant chevaliers and unemployed ladies . 
Charlemagne's setting is historical and geographical Arthur's setting is ideal and in the air . 
The student of the history of social and moral ideals will find much to interest him in Chretien's romances . 
Mediaeval references show that he was held by his immediate successors , as he is held to day when fairly viewed , to have been a master of the art of story telling . 
More than any other single narrative poet , he was taken as a model both in France and abroad . 
Aside from certain episodes of Chretien's romances , the student will be most interested in the treatment of love as therein portrayed . 
On this topic we may hear speaking the man of his time . 
Cliges contains the body of Chretien's doctrine of love , while Lancelot is his most perfect lover . 
His debt to Ovid has not yet been indicated with sufficient preciseness . 
An elaborate code to govern sentiment and its expression was independently developed by the troubadours of Provence in the early twelfth century . 
Nowhere in the vulgar tongues can a better statement of these relations be found than in Cliges . 
So we leave Chretien to speak across the ages for himself and his generation . 
He is to be read as a story teller rather than as a poet , as a casuist rather than as a philosopher . 
The rustic's proverb says that many a thing is despised that is worth much more than is supposed . 
Therefore he does well who makes the most of whatever intelligence he may possess . 
For he who neglects this concern may likely omit to say something which would subsequently give great pleasure . 
The story is about Erec the son of Lac a story which those who earn a living by telling stories are accustomed to mutilate and spoil in the presence of kings and counts . 
And now I shall begin the tale which will be remembered so long as Christendom endures . 
One Easter Day in the Springtime , King Arthur held court in his town of Cardigan . 
in order to observe worthily the ancient custom . 
When my lord Gawain heard this , he was sore displeased . 
and said Sire , you will derive neither thanks nor goodwill from this hunt . 
We all know long since what this custom of the White Stag is whoever can kill the White Stag must forsooth kiss the fairest maiden of your court , come what may . 
The King replies That I know well yet will I not desist on that account for a king's word ought never to be gainsaid . 
To morrow morning we shall all gaily go to hunt the White Stag in the forest of adventure . 
And very delightful this hunt will be . 
And so the affair is arranged for the next morning at daybreak . 
The morrow , as soon as it is day , the King gets up and dresses , and dons a short jacket for his forest ride . 
He commands the knights to be aroused and the horses to be made ready . 
Already they are ahorse , and off they go , with bows and arrows . 
After them the Queen mounts her horse , taking a damsel with her . 
A maid she was , the daughter of a king , and she rode a white palfrey . 
After them there swiftly followed a knight , named Erec , who belonged to the Round Table , and had great fame at the court . 
Of all the knights that ever were there , never one received such praise and he was so fair that nowhere in the world need one seek a fairer knight than he . 
He was very fair , brave , and courteous , though not yet twenty five years old . 
Never was there a man of his age of greater knighthood . 
He had put on hose of brocade , well made and cut , and when his golden spurs were well attached , he sat securely in his stirrups . 
He carried no arm with him but his sword . 
And the Queen thanks him Fair friend , I like your company well , in truth for better I could not have . 
Then they ride along at full speed until they come into the forest , where the party who had gone before them had already started the stag . 
Some wind the horns and others shout the hounds plunge ahead after the stag , running , attacking , and baying the bowmen shoot amain . 
And before them all rode the King on a Spanish hunter . 
Queen Guinevere was in the wood listening for the dogs beside her were Erec and the damsel , who was very courteous and fair . 
So all three of them drew rein in a clearing beside the road . 
They had been there but a short time when they saw an armed knight along on his steed , with shield slung about his neck , and his lance in hand . 
When Queen Guinevere saw the comely and graceful knight , she desired to know who he and his damsel were . 
Damsel , says the Queen , go and bid yonder knight come to me and bring his damsel with him . 
The maiden goes on amble straight toward the knight . 
But the spiteful dwarf sallies forth to meet her with his scourge in hand , crying Halt , maiden , what do you want here ? You shall advance no farther . 
Dwarf , says she , let me pass . 
I wish to speak with yonder knight for the Queen sends me hither . 
The dwarf , who was rude and mean , took his stand in the middle of the road . 
and said You have no business here . 
It is not meet that vou should speak to so excellent a knight . 
The damsel advanced and tried to pass him by force , holding the dwarf in slight esteem when she saw that he was so small . 
Then the dwarf raised his whip , when he saw her coming toward him and tried to strike her in the face . 
When the maiden could do nothing else , in spite of herself she must needs return . 
So weeping she turned back . 
The tears came to her eyes and ran down her cheeks . 
When the Queen sees her damsel wounded , she is sorely grieved and angered and knows not what to do . 
Ah , Erec , fair friend , she says , I am in great sorrow for my damsel whom that dwarf has wounded . 
The knight must be discourteous indeed , to allow such a monster to strike so beautiful a creature . 
Erec , fair friend , do you go to the knight and bid him come to me without delay . 
I wish to know him and his lady . 
Erec starts off thither , giving spurs to his steed , and rides straight toward the knight . 
The ignoble dwarf sees him coming and goes to meet him . 
Vassal , says he , stand back ! For I know not what business you have here . 
I advise you to withdraw . 
Avaunt , says Erec , provoking dwarf ! Thou art vile and troublesome . 
That will I. You shall not . 
Erec thrusts the dwarf aside . 
So Erec acted wisely in retreating without more ado . 
My lady , he says , now matters stand worse for the rascally dwarf has so wounded me that he has badly cut my face . 
I did not dare to strike or touch him but none ought to reproach me , for I was completely unarmed . 
I mistrusted the armed knight , who , being an ugly fellow and violent , would take it as no jest , and would soon kill me in his pride . 
But this much I will promise you that if I can , I shall yet avenge my disgrace , or increase it . 
But my arms are too far away to avail me in this time of need for at Cardigan did I leave them this morning when I came away . 
And if I should go to fetch them there , peradventure I should never again find the knight who is riding off apace . 
So I must follow him at once , far or near , until I find some arms to hire or borrow . 
If I find some one who will lend me arms , the knight will quickly find me ready for battle . 
And you may be sure without fail that we two shall fight until he defeat me , or I him . 
And if possible , I shall be back by the third day , when you will see me home again either joyous or sad , I know not which . 
Lady , I cannot delay longer , for I must follow after the knight . 
To God I commend you . 
And the Queen in like manner more than five hundred rimes commends him to God , that he may defend him from harm . 
Erec leaves the Queen and ceases not to pursue the knight . 
The Queen remains in the wood , where now the King had come up with the Stag . 
The King himself outstripped the others at the death . 
Thus they killed and took the White Stag , and all returned , carrying the Stag , till they came again to Cardigan . 
Throughout the court a great murmur is heard each one vows and swears to his neighbour that it shall not be done without the protest of sword or ashen lance . 
Each one gallantly desires to contend that his lady is the fairest in the hall . 
Their conversation bodes no good , and when my lord Gawain heard it , you must know that it was not to his liking . 
Thus he addressed the King Sire , he says , your knights here are greatly aroused , and all their talk is of this kiss . 
They say that it shall never be bestowed without disturbance and a fight . 
And the King wisely replied to him Fair nephew Gawain , give me counsel now , sparing my honour and my dignity , for I have no mind for any disturbance . 
To the council came a great part of the best knights of the court . 
arrived , who was the first to be summoned , and after him King Cadoalant , who was very wise and bold . 
Kay and Girflet came too , and King Amauguin was there , and a great number of other knights were there with them . 
Sire , says the Queen to the King , listen to me a moment . 
If these knights approve what I say , postpone this kiss until the third day , when Erec will be back . 
There is none who does not agree with her , and the King himself approves her words . 
Erec steadily follows the knight who was armed and the dwarf who had struck him until they come to a well placed town , strong and fine . 
They enter straight through the gate . 
Within the town there was great joy of knights and ladies , of whom there were many and fair . 
their mewed birds , and young yellow hawks others play at dice or other game of chance , some at chess , and some at backgammon . 
The grooms in front of the stables are rubbing down and currying the horses . 
The ladies are bedecking themselves in their boudoirs . 
As soon as they see the knight coming , whom they recognised with his dwarf and damsel , they go out three by three to meet him . 
The knight they all greet and salute , but they give no heed to Erec , for they did not know him . 
Erec follows close upon the knight through the town , until he saw him lodged . 
Then , very joyful , he passed on a little farther until he saw reclining upon some steps a vavasor well on in years . 
He was a comely man , with white locks , debonair , pleasing , and frank . 
There he was seated all alone , seeming to be engaged in thought . 
Erec took him for an honest man who would at once give him lodging . 
When he turned through the gate into the yard , the vavasor ran to meet him , and saluted him before Erec had said a word . 
Fair sir , says he , be welcome . 
If you will deign to lodge with me , here is my house all ready for you . 
Erec replies Thank you ! For no other purpose have I come I need a lodging place this night . 
Erec dismounts from his horse , which the host himself leads away by the bridle , and does great honour to his guest . 
The vavasor summons his wife and his beautiful daughter , who were busy in a work room doing I know not what . 
The lady came out with her daughter , who was dressed in a soft white under robe with wide skirts hanging loose in folds . 
Over it she wore a white linen garment , which completed her attire . 
And this garment was so old that it was full of holes down the sides . 
Poor , indeed , was her garb without , but within her body was fair . 
The maid was charming , in sooth , for Nature had used all her skill in forming her . 
Nature herself had marvelled more than five hundred times how upon this one occasion she had succeeded in creating such a perfect thing . 
Never again could she so strive successfully to reproduce her pattern . 
Nature bears witness concerning her that never was so fair a creature seen in all the world . 
In truth I say that never did Iseut the Fair have such radiant golden tresses that she could be compared with this maiden . 
The complexion of her forehead and face was clearer and more delicate than the lily . 
But with wondrous art her face with all its delicate pallor was suffused with a fresh crimson which Nature had bestowed upon her . 
Her eyes were so bright that they seemed like two stars . 
God never formed better nose , mouth , and eyes . 
What shall I say of her beauty ? In sooth , she was made to be looked at for in her one could have seen himself as in a mirror . 
See that he lack for nothing take off his saddle and bridle , give him oats and hay , look after him and curry him , that he may be in good condition . 
The maiden takes the horse , unlaces his breast strap , and takes off his bridle and saddle . 
Now the horse is in good hands , for she takes excellent care of him . 
She throws a halter over his head , rubs him down , curries him , and makes him comfortable . 
Then she ties him to the manger and puts plenty of fresh sweet hay and oats before him . 
Then she went back to her father , who said to her Fair daughter dear , take now this gentleman by the hand and show him all honour . 
Take him by the hand upstairs . 
and led him by the hand upstairs . 
The lady had gone before and prepared the house . 
She had laid embroidered cushions and spreads upon the couches , where they all three sat down Erec with his host beside him , and the maiden opposite . 
Before them , the fire burns brightly . 
The vavasor had only one man servant , and no maid for chamber or kitchen work . 
This one man was busy in the kitchen preparing meat and birds for supper . 
A skilful cook was he , who knew how to prepare meal in boiling water and birds on the spit . 
When he had the meal prepared in accordance with the orders which had been given him , he brought them water for washing in two basins . 
The table was soon set , cloths , bread , and wine set out , and they sat down to supper . 
They had their fill of all they needed . 
When they had finished and when the table was cleared , Erec thus addressed his host , the master of the house Tell me , fair host . 
he asked , why your daughter , who is so passing fair and clever , is so poorly and unsuitably attired . 
And yet she would be well enough dressed if I allowed her to accept everything that people wish to give her . 
The lord of this castle himself would have dressed her in becoming fashion and would have done her every manner of favour , for she is his niece and he is a count . 
And there is no nobleman in this region , however rich and powerful , who would not willingly have taken her to wife had I given my consent . 
Fair , indeed , she is but yet greater far than her beauty , is her intelligence . 
God never created any one so discreet and of such open heart . 
When I have my daughter beside me , I don't care a marble about all the rest of the world . 
She is my delight and my pastime , she is my joy and comfort , my wealth and my treasure , and I love nothing so much as her own precious self . 
When Erec had listened to all that his host told him , he asked him to inform him whence came all the chivalry that was quartered in the town . 
For there was no street or house so poor and small but it was full of knights and ladies and squires . 
Whoever wishes to gain the hawk must have a mistress who is fair , prudent , and courteous . 
This is the custom they are observing , and for this each year they gather here . 
To him the host then made reply That is he who will win the hawk without any opposition from the other knights . 
I don't believe that any one will offer opposition this time there will be no blows or wounds . 
For two years already he has won it without being challenged and if he wins it again this year , he will have gained permanent possession of it . 
Every succeeding year he may keep it without contest or challenge . 
Quickly Erec makes reply I do not like that knight . 
Upon my word , had I some arms I should challenge him for the hawk . 
Fair host , I beg you as a boon to advise me how I may be equipped with arms whether old or new , poor or rich , it matters not . 
And he replies to him generously It were a pity for you to feel concern on that score ! I have good fine arms which I shall be glad to lend you . 
In the house I have a triple woven hauberk , which was selected from among five hundred . 
And I have some fine valuable greaves , polished , handsome , and light in weight . 
The helmet is bright and handsome , and the shield fresh and new . 
Horse , sword , and lance all I will lend you , of course so let no more be said . 
If you will lend me the rest , I shall esteem it a great favour . 
But there is one more boon I wish to ask of you , for which I shall make just return if God grant that I come off from the battle with honour . 
And frankly he replies to him Ask confidently for what you want , whatever it be , for nothing of mine shall lack you . 
Then Erec said that he wished to defend the hawk on behalf of his daughter for surely there will be no damsel who is one hundredth part as beautiful as she . 
And if he takes her with him , he will have good and just reason to maintain and to prove that she is entitled to carry away the hawk . 
Then he added Sire , you know not what guest you have sheltered here , nor do you know my estate and kin . 
I am the son of a rich and puissant king my father's name is King Lac , and the Bretons call me Erec . 
I belong to King Arthur's court , and have been with him now three years . 
I know not if any report of my father or of me has ever reached this land . 
Ah , fair sir ! Is it true that you are Erec , the son of Lac ? That is who I am , indeed quoth he . 
Then the host was greatly delighted and said We have indeed heard of you in this country . 
Now I think all the more of you , for you are very valiant and brave . 
Nothing now shall you be refused by me . 
At your request I give you my fair daughter . 
Then taking her by the hand , he says Here , I give her to you . 
Erec received her joyfully , and now has all he desired . 
Now they are all happy there the father is greatly delighted , and the mother weeps for joy . 
They had sat up very late that night . 
But now the beds were prepared with white sheets and soft pillows , and when the conversation flagged they all went to bed in happy frame . 
Erec slept little that night , and the next morn , at crack of dawn , he and his host rose early . 
They both go to pray at church , and hear a hermit chant the Mass of the Holy Spirit , not forgetting to make an offering . 
When they had heard Mass both kneel before the altar and then return to the house . 
Erec was eager for the battle so he asks for arms , and they are given to him . 
laces on his iron greaves , and makes them fast with thong of deer hide . 
She puts on his hauberk with its strong meshes , and laces on his ventail . 
The gleaming helmet she sets upon his head , and thus arms him well from tip to toe . 
At his side she fastens his sword , and then orders his horse to be brought , which is done . 
Up he jumped clear of the ground . 
The damsel then brings the shield and the strong lance she hands him the shield , and he takes it and hangs it about his neck by the strap . 
The vavasor then without delay had saddled a bay palfrey . 
There can nothing be said of the harness because of the dire poverty with which the vavasor was afflicted . 
Saddle and bridle were put on , and up the maiden mounted all free and in light attire , without waiting to be urged . 
Erec wished to delay no longer so off he starts with the host's daughter by his side , followed by the gentleman and his lady . 
Erec rides with lance erect and with the comely damsel by his side . 
All the people , great and small , gaze at them with wondering eyes as they pass through the streets . 
And thus they question each other Who is yonder knight ? He must be doughty and brave , indeed , to act as escort for this fair maid . 
His efforts will be well employed in proving that this damsel is the fairest of them all . 
One man to another says In very truth , she ought to have the sparrow hawk . 
Some praised the maid , while many said God ! who can this knight be , with the fair damsel by his side ? I know not . 
Nor I. Thus spake each one . 
But his gleaming helmet becomes him well , and the hauberk , and shield , and his sharp steel sword . 
He sits well upon his steed and has the bearing of a valiant vassal , well shapen in arm , in limb and foot . 
While all thus stand and gaze at them , they for their part made no delay to take their stand by the sparrow hawk , where to one side they awaited the knight . 
And now behold ! they see him come , attended by his dwarf and his damsel . 
He would quickly defeat him and lay him low . 
All the people knew him well , and all welcome him and escort him in a noisy crowd knights , squires , ladies , and damsels make haste to run after him . 
Leading them all the knight rides proudly on , with his damsel and his dwarf at his side , and he makes his way quickly to the sparrow hawk . 
But all about there was such a press of the rough and vulgar crowd that it was impossible to touch the hawk or to come near where it was . 
Then the Count arrived on the scene , and threatened the populace with a switch which he held in his hand . 
Yours it shall surely be so long as I live . 
Step forward , my dear , and lift the hawk from the perch . 
The damsel was on the point of stretching forth her hand when Erec hastened to challenge her , little heeding the other's arrogance . 
Damsel , he cries , stand back ! Go dally with some other bird , for to this one you have no right . 
In spite of all , I say this hawk shall never be yours . 
For a better one than you claims it aye , much more fair and more courteous . 
The other knight is very wroth but Erec does not mind him , and bids his own maiden step forward . 
he cries , come forth . 
Lift the bird from the perch , for it is right that you should have it . 
Damsel , come forth ! For I will make boast to defend it if any one is so bold as to intervene . 
For no woman excels you in beauty or worth , in grace or honour any more than the moon outshines the sun . 
The other could suffer it no longer , when he hears him so manfully offer himself to do battle . 
Vassal , he cries , who art thou who dost thus dispute with me the hawk ? Erec boldly answers him A knight I am from another land . 
This hawk I have come to obtain for it is right , I say it in spite of all , that this damsel of mine should have it . 
Away ! cries the other , it shall never be . 
Madness has brought thee here . 
If thou dost wish to have the hawk , thou shalt pay fight dearly for it . 
Pay , vassal and how ? Thou must fight with me , if thou dost not resign it to me . 
You talk madness , cries Erec for me these are idle threats for little enough do I fear you . 
Then I defy thee here and now . 
Erec replies God help me now for never did I wish for aught so much . 
Now soon you will hear the noise of battle . 
The large place was cleared , with the people gathered all around . 
They must needs lose their stirrups , so that they both fall to the ground , and the horses run off across the field . 
Though smitten with the lances , they are quickly on their feet again , and draw their swords from the scabbards . 
With great fierceness they attack each other , and exchange great sword blows , so that the helmets are crushed and made to ring . 
Fierce is the clash of the swords , as they rain great blows upon neck and shoulders . 
For this is no mere sport they break whatever they touch , cutting the shields and shattering the hauberks . 
The swords are red with crimson blood . 
Long the battle lasts but they fight so lustily that they become weary and listless . 
Ha ! vassal , quoth the knight to Erec , let us withdraw and rest a little for too weak are these blows we deal . 
We must deal better blows than these for now it draws near evening . 
It is shameful and highly discreditable that this battle should last so long . 
See yonder that gentle maid who weeps for thee and calls on God . 
Full sweetly she prays for thee , as does also mine for me . 
Surely we should do our best with our blades of steel for the sake of our lady loves . 
Erec replies You have spoken well . 
Then they take a little rest , Erec looking toward his lady as she softly prays for him . 
While he sat and looked on her , great strength was recruited within him . 
Her love and beauty inspired him with great boldness . 
He remembered the Queen , to whom he pledged his word that he would avenge the insult done him , or would make it greater yet . 
Ah ! wretch , says he , why do I wait ? I have not yet taken vengeance for the injury which this vassal permitted when his dwarf struck me in the wood . 
His anger is revived within him as he summons the knight Vassal , quoth he , I call you to battle anew . 
Too long we have rested let us now renew our strife . 
And he replies That is no hardship to me . 
Whereupon , they again fall upon each other . 
They were both expert fencers . 
At his first lunge the knight would have wounded Erec had he not skilfully parried . 
Even so , he smote him so hard over the shield beside his temple that he struck a piece from his helmet . 
Closely shaving his white coif , the sword descends , cleaving the shield through to the buckle , and cutting more than a span from the side of his hauberk . 
Then he must have been well stunned , as the cold steel penetrated to the flesh on his thigh . 
May God protect him now ! If the blow had not glanced off , it would have cut right through his body . 
But Erec is in no wise dismayed he pays him back what is owing him , and . 
He made the crimson blood flow down to his waist band . 
Both of the vassals are hard fighters they fight with honours even , for one cannot gain from the other a single foot of ground . 
Their hauberks are so torn and their shields so hacked , that there is actually not enough of them left to serve as a protection . 
So they fight all exposed . 
Each one loses a deal of blood , and both grow weak . 
He strikes Erec and Erec strikes him . 
Erec deals him such a tremendous blow upon the helmet that he quite stuns him . 
Then he lets him have it again and again , giving him three blows in quick succession , which entirely split the helmet and cut the coif beneath it . 
The sword even reaches the skull and cuts a bone of his head , but without penetrating the brain . 
He stumbles and totters , and while he staggers , Erec pushes him over , so that he falls upon his right side . 
Erec grabs him by the helmet and forcibly drags it from his head , and unlaces the ventail , so that his head and face are completely exposed . 
When Erec thinks of the insult done him by the dwarf in the wood , he would have cut off his head , had he not cried for mercy . 
Ah ! vassal , says he , thou hast defeated me . 
Mercy now , and do not kill me , after having overcome me and taken me prisoner that would never bring thee praise or glory . 
If thou shouldst touch me more , thou wouldst do great villainy . 
Take here my sword I yield it thee . 
Erec , however , does not take it , but says in reply I am within an ace of killing thee . 
Erec replies Indeed you have . 
Then Erec said Vassal , I am he who was in the forest yesterday with Queen Guinevere , when thou didst allow thy ill bred dwarf to strike my lady's damsel . 
It is disgraceful to strike a woman . 
And afterwards he struck me , taking me for some common fellow . 
Thou wast guilty of too great insolence when thou sawest such an outrage and didst complacently permit such a monster of a lout to strike the damsel and myself . 
For such a crime I may well hate thee for thou hast committed a grave offence . 
Thou shalt now constitute thyself my prisoner , and without delay go straight to my lady whom thou wilt surely find at Cardigan , if thither thou takest thy way . 
Thou wilt reach there this very night , for it is not seven leagues from here , I think . 
So much thou mayst tell her truthfully . 
And now I wish to know thy name . 
Then he must needs say in spite of himself Sire , my name is Yder , son of Nut . 
This morning I had not thought that any single man by force of arms could conquer me . 
But tell me without reserve what your name may be . 
Who shall I say it is that sends me ? For I am ready to start . 
And he replies My name I will tell thee without disguise it is Erec . 
Go , and tell her that it is I who have sent thee to her . 
, and I will give her news of you and of your damsel . 
Then Erec received his plighted word , and the Count and all the people round about the ladies and the gentlemen were present at the agreement . 
Some were joyous , and some downcast some were sorry , and others glad . 
Yder , compelled to execute his promise , did not wish to tarry longer , but mounted his steed at once . 
But why should I make a long story ? Taking his dwarf and his damsel , they traversed the woods and the plain , going on straight until they came to Cardigan . 
outside the great hall , Gawain and Kay the seneschal and a great number of other lords were gathered . 
If I am not mistaken , there are three in the party , for I see the dwarf and the damsel . 
That is so , says my lord Gawain it is surely a damsel and a dwarf who are coming straight toward us with the knight . 
The knight himself is fully armed , but his shield is not whole . 
If the Queen should see him , she would know him . 
Hello , seneschal , go call her now ! So he went straightway and found her in one of the apartments . 
My lady , says he , do you remember the dwarf who yesterday angered you by wounding your damsel ? Yes , I remember him right well . 
Then the Queen rose quickly and said Let us go quickly , seneschal , to see if it is the vassal . 
If it is he , you may be sure that I shall tell you so , as soon as I see him . 
And Kay said I will show him to you . 
Come up into the bower where your knights are assembled . 
It was from there we saw him coming , and my lord Gawain himself awaits you there . 
My lady , let us hasten thither , for here we have too long delayed . 
Then the Queen bestirred herself , and coming to the windows she took her stand by my lord Gawain , and straightway recognised the knight . 
Ha ! my lords , she cries , it is he . 
He has been through great danger . 
He has been in a battle . 
I do not know whether Erec has avenged his grief , or whether this knight has defeated Erec . 
But there is many a dent upon his shield , and his hauberk is covered with blood , so that it is rather red than white . 
In sooth , my lady , quoth my lord Gawain , I am very sure that you are quite right . 
His hauberk is covered with blood , and pounded and beaten , showing plainly that he has been in a fight . 
We can easily see that the battle has been hot . 
No other news can he bring , I think . 
The Queen says I am of the same opinion . 
And all the others say It may well be so . 
Meanwhile Yder enters the castle gate , bringing them news . 
They all came down from the bower , and went to meet him . 
Yder came up to the royal terrace and there dismounted from his horse . 
And Gawain took the damsel and helped her down from her palfrey the dwarf , for his part , dismounted too . 
There were more than one hundred knights standing there , and when the three newcomers had all dismounted they were led into the King's presence . 
He has overcome me at arms and defeated me . 
Lady , the dwarf I bring you here he has come to surrender to you at discretion . 
I bring you myself , my damsel , and my dwarf to do with us as you please . 
But tell me now , so help thee God , what is thy name ? And he replies Lady , my name is Yder , son of Nut . 
And they knew that he told the truth . 
Then the Queen arose , and going before the King , said Sire , did you hear ? You have done well to wait for Erec , the valiant knight . 
I gave you good advice yesterday , when I counselled you to await his return . 
This proves that it is wise to take advice . 
The King replies That is no lie rather is it perfectly true that he who takes advice is no fool . 
Happily we followed your advice yesterday . 
When the King had thus spoken , the Queen straightway released the knight but it was on this condition , that he should remain in the future at the court . 
He did not have to be urged before he gave his consent to stay . 
Now he was of the court and household to which he had not before belonged . 
Then valets were at hand to run and relieve him of his arms . 
Now we must revert to Erec , whom we left in the field where the battle had taken place . 
, awakened no such jubilee as they celebrated here over Erec . 
Great and small , thin and stout all make much of him and praise his knighthood . 
There is not a knight but cries Lord what a vassal ! Under Heaven there is not his like ! They follow him to his lodgings , praising him and talking much . 
If you would accept of my hospitality you would do me a great honour , for I regard you as my liege . 
Fair sire , may it please you , I beg you to lodge with me . 
Erec answers May it not displease you , but I shall not desert my host to night , who has done me much honour in giving me his daughter . 
What say you , sir ? Is it not a fair and precious gift ? Yes , sire , the Count replies the gift , in truth , is fine and good . 
The maid herself is fair and clever , and besides is of very noble birth . 
You must know that her mother is my sister . 
Surely , I am glad at heart that you should deign to take my niece . 
Once more I beg you to lodge with me this night . 
Erec replies Ask me no more . 
I will not do it . 
When Erec heard that , he thanked him , and returned to his host's dwelling , with the Count attending him . 
Ladies and knights were gathered there , and the vavasor was glad at heart . 
As soon as Erec arrived , more than a score of squires ran quickly to remove his arms . 
Any one who was present in that house could have witnessed a happy scene . 
Erec went first and took his seat then all the others in order sit down upon the couches , the cushions , and benches . 
At Erec's side the Count sat down , and the damsel with her radiant face , who was feeding the much disputed hawk upon her wrist with a plover's wing . 
Great honour and joy and prestige had she gained that day , and she was very glad at heart both for the bird and for her lord . 
She could not have been happier , and showed it plainly , making no secret of her joy . 
All could see how gay she was , and throughout the house there was great rejoicing for the happiness of the maid they loved . 
Erec thus addressed the vavasor Fair host , fair friend , fair sire ! You have done me great honour , and richly shall it be repaid you . 
I shall have you escorted into the country which is my father's now , but which later will be mine . 
It is far from here by no means near . 
There I shall give you two towns , very splendid , rich , and fine . 
You shall be lord of Roadan , which was built in the time of Adam , and of another town close by , which is no less valuable . 
The people call it Montrevel , and my father owns no better town . 
To morrow at dawn I wish to take your daughter to court , dressed and arrayed as she is at present . 
I wish my lady , the Queen , to dress her in her best dress of satin and scarlet cloth . 
There was a maiden near at hand , very honourable , prudent , and virtuous . 
She was seated on a bench beside the maid with the white shift , and was her own cousin the niece of my lord the Count . 
When she heard how Erec intended to take her cousin in such very poor array to the Queen's court , she spoke about it to the Count . 
Sire , she says , it would be a shame to you more than to any one else if this knight should take your niece away with him in such sad array . 
And the Count made answer Gentle niece , do you give her the best of your dresses . 
But Erec heard the conversation , and said By no means , my lord . 
For be assured that nothing in the world would tempt me to let her have another robe until the Queen shall herself bestow it upon her . 
I have three good palfreys , as good as any of king or count , one sorrel , one dappled , and the other black with white forefeet . 
Upon my word , if you had a hundred to pick from , you would not find a better one than the dappled mount . 
The birds in the air do not fly more swiftly than the palfrey and he is not too lively , but just suits a lady . 
A child can ride him , for he is neither skittish nor balky , nor does he bite nor kick nor become unmanageable . 
Any one who is looking for something better does not know what he wants . 
And his pace is so easy and gentle that a body is more comfortable and easy on his back than in a boat . 
Then said Erec My dear , I have no objection to her accepting this gift indeed , I am pleased with the offer , and do not wish her to refuse it . 
Then the damsel calls one of her trusty servants , and says to him Go , friend , saddle my dappled palfrey , and lead him here at once . 
And he carries out her command he puts on saddle and bridle and strives to make him appear well . 
Then he jumps on the maned palfrey , which is now ready for inspection . 
When Erec saw the animal , he did not spare his praise , for he could see that he was very fine and gentle . 
So he bade a servant lead him back and hitch him in the stable beside his own horse . 
Then they all separated , after an evening agreeably spent . 
The Count goes off to his own dwelling , and leaves Erec with the vavasor , saying that he will bear him company in the morning when he leaves . 
All that night they slept well . 
In the morning , when the dawn was bright , Erec prepares to start , commanding his horses to be saddled . 
His fair sweetheart , too , awakes , dresses , and makes ready . 
The vavasor and his wife rise too , and every knight and lady there prepares to escort the damsel and the knight . 
Now they are all on horseback , and the Count as well . 
Erec rides beside the Count , having beside him his sweetheart ever mindful of her hawk . 
Having no other riches , she plays with her hawk . 
But he announced that none should bide with him , and that he wanted no company but that of the damsel . 
Her father and mother , too , kiss them again and again , and could not keep back their tears at parting , the mother weeps , the father and the daughter too . 
For such is love and human nature , and such is affection between parents and children . 
They shed tears of love and pity when they separated from their daughter , but they had no other cause to weep . 
They knew well enough that eventually they would receive great honour from her marriage . 
So at parting many a tear was shed , as weeping they commend one another to God , and thus separate without more delay . 
Erec quit his host for he was very anxious to reach the royal court . 
In his adventure he took great satisfaction for now he had a lady passing fair , discreet , courteous , and debonair . 
He could not look at her enough for the more he looks at her , the more she pleases him . 
He cannot help giving her a kiss . 
He is happy to ride by her side , and it does him good to look at her . 
He gazes upon her down to the waist , at her chin and her snowy neck , her bosom and sides , her arms and hands . 
But no less the damsel looks at the vassal with a clear eye and loyal heart , as if they were in competition . 
They would not have ceased to survey each other even for promise of a reward ! A perfect match they were in courtesy , beauty , and gentleness . 
Their sentiments , too , were much alike so that they were well suited to each other . 
Thus each steals the other's heart away . 
Law or marriage never brought together two such sweet creatures . 
And so they rode along until just on the stroke of noon they approached the castle of Cardigan , where they were both expected . 
Some of the first nobles of the court had gone up to look from the upper windows and see if they could see them . 
Finally , they espied Erec coming along in company with his lady . 
They all knew him well enough from as far as they could see him . 
The Queen is greatly pleased , and indeed the whole court is glad of his coming , because they all love him so . 
As soon as he was come before the entrance hall , the King and Queen go down to meet him , all greeting him in God's name . 
They welcome Erec and his maiden , commending and praising her great beauty . 
And the King himself caught her and lifted her down from her palfrey . 
The King was decked in fine array and was then in cheery mood . 
He did signal honour to the damsel by taking her hand and leading her up into the great stone hall . 
After them Erec and the Queen also went up hand in hand , and he said to her I bring you , lady , my damsel and my sweetheart dressed in poor garb . 
As she was given to me , so have I brought her to you . 
She is the daughter of a poor vavasor . 
Through poverty many an honourable man is brought low her father , for instance , is gentle and courteous , but he has little means . 
And her mother is a very gentle lady , the sister of a rich Count . 
She has no lack of beauty or of lineage , that I should not marry her . 
It is poverty that has compelled her to wear this white linen garment until both sleeves are torn at the side . 
And yet , had it been my desire , she might have had dresses rich enough . 
For another damsel , a cousin of hers , wished to give her a robe of ermine and of spotted or grey silk . 
But I would not have her dressed in any other robe until you should have seen her . 
Gentle lady , consider the matter now and see what need she has of a fine becoming gown . 
The one who went at her behest came bringing to her the mantle and the tunic , which was lined with white ermine even to the sleeves . 
This tunic was very rich , but not a writ less precious , I trow , was the mantle . 
As yet , there were no ribbons on it for the mantle like the tunic was brand new . 
The fur lining was of white ermine never was finer seen or found . 
The cloth was skilfully embroidered with little crosses , all different , indigo , vermilion , dark blue , white , green , blue , and yellow . 
The Queen called for some ribbons four ells long , made of silken thread and gold . 
The ribbons are given to her , handsome and well matched . 
Quickly she had them fastened to the mantle by some one who knew how to do it , and who was master of the art . 
So much I wish to bestow upon you . 
And put on this mantle , too . 
Another time I will give you more . 
Not able to refuse the gift , she takes the robe and thanks her for it . 
Then she dons the tunic , and girds herself , binding on tightly a golden belt , and afterwards puts on the mantle . 
Now she looked by no means ill for the dress became her so well that it made her look more beautiful than ever . 
The two maids wove a gold thread in amongst her golden hair but her tresses were more radiant than the thread of gold , fine though it was . 
The maids , moreover , wove a fillet of flowers of many various colours and placed it upon her head . 
They strove as best they might to adorn her in such wise that no fault should be found with her attire . 
Strung upon a ribbon around her neck , a damsel hung two brooches of enamelled gold . 
Then she stepped out of the dressing room into the Queen's presence . 
The Queen made much of her , because she liked her and was glad that she was beautiful and had such gentle manners . 
They took each other by the hand and passed into the King's presence . 
And when the King saw them , he got up to meet them . 
But I can tell you the names of some of the best of the knights who belonged to the Round Table and who were the best in the world . 
Before all the excellent knights , Gawain ought to be named the first , and second Erec the son of Lac , and third Lancelot of the Lake . 
Gornemant of Gohort was fourth , and the fifth was the Handsome Coward . 
The sixth was the Ugly Brave , the seventh Meliant of Liz , the eighth Mauduit the Wise , and the ninth Dodinel the Wild . 
Let Gandelu be named the tenth , for he was a goodly man . 
The others I shall mention without order , because the numbers bother me . 
Eslit was there with Briien , and Yvain the son of Uriien . 
And Yvain of Loenel was there , as well as Yvain the Adulterer . 
Beside Yvain of Cavaliot was Garravain of Estrangot . 
After the Knight with the Horn was the Youth with the Golden Ring . 
And Tristan who never laughed sat beside Bliobleheris , and beside Brun of Piciez was his brother Gru the Sullen . 
The Armourer sat next , who preferred war to peace . 
Next sat Karadues the Shortarmed , a knight of good cheer and Caveron of Robendic , and the son of King Quenedic and the Youth of Quintareus and Yder of the Dolorous Mount . 
he never had any care for truth . 
When the stranger maiden saw all the knights arrayed looking steadfastly at her , she bowed her head in embarrassment nor was it strange that her face blushed all crimson . 
But her confusion was so becoming to her that she looked all the more lovely . 
When the King saw that she was embarrassed , he did not wish to leave her side . 
Taking her gently by the hand , he made her sit down on his right hand and on his left sat the Queen , speaking thus to the King the while . 
Sire , in my opinion he who can win such a fair lady by his arms in another land ought by right to come to a royal court . 
It was well we waited for Erec for now you can bestow the kiss upon the fairest of the court . 
The King makes answer That is no lie and upon her , if there is no remonstrance , I shall bestow the honour of the White Stag . 
I say it is meet that she should receive the honour of the Stag . 
And you , my lords , what do you think about it ? Can you make any objection ? If any one wishes to protest , let him straightway speak his mind . 
I am King , and must keep my word and must not permit any baseness , falsity , or arrogance . 
I must maintain truth and righteousness . 
It is the business of a loyal king to support the law , truth , faith , and justice . 
I would not in any wise commit a disloyal deed or wrong to either weak or strong . 
It is not meet that any one should complain of me nor do I wish the custom and the practice to lapse , which my family has been wont to foster . 
You , too , would doubtless regret to see me strive to introduce other customs and other laws than those my royal sire observed . 
Regardless of consequences , I am bound to keep and maintain the institution of my father Pendragon , who was a just king and emperor . 
Then they all cry with one accord Sire , by the Lord and his Cross ! you may well kiss her with good reason , for she is the fairest one there is . 
In this damsel there is more beauty than there is of radiance in the sun . 
You may kiss her freely , for we all agree in sanctioning it . 
When the King hears that this is well pleasing to them all , he will no longer delay in bestowing the kiss , but turns toward her and embraces her . 
The maid was sensible , and perfectly willing that the King should kiss her she would have been discourteous , indeed , to resent it . 
In courteous fashion and in the presence of all his knights the King kissed her , and said My dear . 
I give you my love in all honesty . 
I will love you with true heart , without malice and without guile . 
By this adventure the King carried out the practice and the usage to which the White Stag was entitled at his court . 
Here ends the first part of my story . 
When the kiss of the Stag was taken according to the custom of the country , Erec , like a polite and kind man , was solicitous for his poor host . 
It was not his intention to fail to execute what he had promised . 
Two towns there he had promised them , the most choice and the best situated that there were in all his land , with nothing to fear from attack . 
Montrevel was the name of one , and the other's name was Roadan . 
All was carried out as Erec had ordered . 
They escorted them into Erec's kingdom , and strove to serve them well . 
They came into the country on the third day , and transferred to them the towers of the towns for King Lac made no objection . 
He gave them a warm welcome and showed them honour , loving them for the sake of his son Erec . 
He made over to them the title to the towns , and established their suzerainty by making knights and bourgeois swear that they would reverence them as their true liege lords . 
When this was done and accomplished , the messengers returned to their lord Erec , who received them gladly . 
When he asked for news of the vavasor and his lady , of his own father and of his kingdom , the report they gave him was good and fair . 
Not long after this , the time drew near when Erec was to celebrate his marriage . 
The delay was irksome to him , and he resolved no longer to suffer and wait . 
So he went and asked of the King that it might please him to allow him to be married at the court . 
None dares to hold back and not go to court at the King's summons . 
Now I will tell you , and listen well , who were these counts and kings . 
With a rich escort and one hundred extra mounts Count Brandes of Gloucester came . 
After him came Menagormon , who was Count of Clivelon . 
And he of the Haute Montagne came with a very rich following . 
The Count of Treverain came , too , with a hundred of his knights , and Count Godegrain with as many more . 
Along with those whom I have just mentioned came Maheloas , a great baron , lord of the Isle of Voirre . 
In this island no thunder is heard , no lightning strikes , nor tempests rage , nor do toads or serpents exist there , nor is it ever too hot or too cold . 
Graislemier of Fine Posterne brought twenty companions , and had with him his brother Guigomar , lord of the Isle of Avalon . 
Of the latter we have heard it said that he was a friend of Morgan the Fay , and such he was in very truth . 
Davit of Tintagel came , who never suffered woe or grief . 
Guergesin , the Duke of Haut Bois , came with a very rich equipment . 
There was no lack of counts and dukes , but of kings there were still more . 
Garras of Cork , a doughty king , was there with five hundred knights clad in mantles , hose , and tunics of brocade and silk . 
Upon a Cappadocian steed came Aguisel , the Scottish king , and brought with him his two sons , Cadret and Coi two much respected knights . 
Along with those whom I have named came King Ban of Gomeret , and he had in his company only young men , beardless as yet on chin and lip . 
Kerrin , the old King of Riel , brought no youth , but rather three hundred companions of whom the youngest was seven score years old . 
Because of their great age , their heads were all as white as snow , and their beards reached down to their girdles . 
Arthur held them in great respect . 
The lord of the dwarfs came next , Bilis , the king of Antipodes . 
This king of whom I speak was a dwarf himself and own brother of Brien . 
To display his wealth and power , Bilis brought with him two kings who were also dwarfs and who were vassals of his , Grigoras and Glecidalan . 
Every one looked at them as marvels . 
When they had arrived at court , they were treated with great esteem . 
All three were honoured and served at the court like kings , for they were very perfect gentlemen . 
In brief , when King Arthur saw all his lords assembled , his heart was glad . 
Then , to heighten the joy , he ordered a hundred squires to be bathed whom he wished to dub knights . 
There was none of them but had a parti coloured robe of rich brocade of Alexandria , each one choosing such as pleased his fancy . 
All had arms of a uniform pattern , and horses swift and full of mettle , of which the worst was worth a hundred livres . 
When Erec received his wife , he must needs call her by her right name . 
For a wife is not espoused unless she is called by her proper name . 
As yet no one knew her name , but now for the first time it was made known Enide was her baptismal name . 
The Archbishop of Canterbury , who had come to the court , blessed them , as is his right . 
When the court was all assembled , there was not a minstrel in the countryside who possessed any pleasing accomplishment that did not come to the court . 
The maidens sing and dance , and outdo each other in the merry making . 
At the wedding that day everything was done which can give joy and incline man's heart to gladness . 
Drums are beaten , large and small , and there is playing of pipes , fifes , horns , trumpets , and bagpipes . 
King Arthur was not miserly , but gave orders to the bakers , the cooks , and the butlers that they should serve every one generously with bread , wine , and venison . 
No one asked anything whatever to be passed to him without getting all he desired . 
There was great merriment in the palace . 
But I will pass over the rest , and you shall hear of the joy and pleasure in the bridal chamber . 
Bishops and archbishops were there on the night when the bride and groom retired . 
At this their first meeting , Iseut was not filched away , nor was Brangien put in her place . 
The Queen herself took charge of their preparations for the night for both of them were dear to her . 
That night they had full compensation for their long delay . 
Thus , kissing was their first sport . 
And the love which is between them emboldened the maid and left her quite without her fears regardless of pain , she suffered all . 
Before she rose , she no longer bore the name of maid in the morning she was a new made dame . 
That day the minstrels were in happy mood , for they were all well paid . 
Whether it be a horse or money , each one got what he deserved according to his skill . 
And thus the wedding festivities and the court lasted almost a fortnight with great joy and magnificence . 
For his own glory and satisfaction , as well as to honour Erec the more , King Arthur made all the knights remain a full fortnight . 
When the third week began , all together by common consent agreed to hold a tournament . 
On the one side , my lord Gawain offered himself as surety that it would take place between Evroic and Tenebroc and Meliz and Meliadoc were guarantors on the other side . 
A month after Pentecost the tournament assembled , and the jousting began in the plain below Tenebroc . 
Many an ensign of red , blue , and white , many a veil and many a sleeve were bestowed as tokens of love . 
Many a lance was carried there , flying the colours argent and green , or gold and azure blue . 
There were many , too , with different devices , some with stripes and some with dots . 
And now the field is quite covered with arms . 
On either side the ranks tremble , and a roar rises from the fight . 
The shock of the lances is very great . 
Lances break and shields are riddled , the hauberks receive bumps and are torn asunder , saddles go empty and horsemen ramble , while the horses sweat and foam . 
Swords are quickly drawn on those who tumble noisily , and some run to receive the promise of a ransom , others to stave off this disgrace . 
Erec rode a white horse , and came forth alone at the head of the line to joust , if he may find an opponent . 
From the opposite side there rides out to meet him Orguelleus de la Lande , mounted on an Irish steed which bears him along with marvellous speed . 
On the shield before his breast Erec strikes him with such force that he knocks him from his horse he leaves him prone and passes on . 
Then Raindurant opposed him , son of the old dame of Tergalo , covered with blue cloth of silk he was a knight of great prowess . 
Against one another now they charge and deal fierce blows on the shields about their neck . 
Erec from lance's length lays him over on the hard ground . 
While riding back he met the King of the Red City , who was very valiant and bold . 
They grasp their reins by the knots and their shields by the inner straps . 
They both had fine arms , and strong swift horses , and good shields , fresh and new . 
With such fury they strike each other that both their lances fly in splinters . 
Never was there seen such a blow . 
They rush together with shields , arms , and horses . 
But neither girth nor rein nor breast strap could prevent the king from coming to earth . 
So he flew from his steed , carrying with him saddle and stirrup , and even the reins of his bridle in his hand . 
All those who witnessed the jousting were filled with amazement , and said it cost him dear to joust with such a goodly knight . 
Erec did not wish to stop to capture either horse or rider , but rather to joust and distinguish himself in order that his prowess might appear . 
He thrills the ranks in front of him . 
Gawain animates those who were on his side by his prowess , and by winning horses and knights to the discomfiture of his opponents . 
I speak of my lord Gawain , who did right well and valiantly . 
In the fight he unhorsed Guincel , and took Gaudin of the Mountain he captured knights and horses alike my lord Gawain did well . 
In front of the gate of the town the strife began again between those within and those without . 
There Sagremor was thrown down , who was a very gallant knight . 
He was on the point of being detained and captured , when Erec spurs to rescue him , breaking his lance into splinters upon one of the opponents . 
So hard he strikes him on the breast that he made him quit the saddle . 
Then he made of his sword and advances upon them , crushing and splitting their helmets . 
Some flee , and others make way before him , for even the boldest fears him . 
Finally , he distributed so many blows and thrusts that he rescued Sagremor from them , and drove them all in confusion into the town . 
Meanwhile , the vesper hour drew to a close . 
Erec bore himself so well that day that he was the best of the combatants . 
But on the morrow he did much better yet for he took so many knights and left so many saddles empty that none could believe it except those who had seen it . 
Every one on both sides said that with his lance and shield he had won the honours of the tournament . 
Now was Erec's renown so high that no one spoke save of him , nor was any one of such goodly favour . 
and in generous giving and spending he was the equal of Alexander . 
On his return from the tourney Erec went to speak with the King . 
Then he asked his permission to leave , for he wished to visit his own country , and he wished to take his wife with him . 
This request the King could not deny , and yet he would have had him stay . 
But next after him , he prized Erec most , and held him more dear than any other knight . 
Erec wished to delay no longer . 
As soon as he was ready for his journey , he tarried little further at court , but took leave of the Queen and commended the knights to God . 
The Queen grants him leave to depart . 
At the hour of prime he set out from the royal palace . 
In the presence of them all he mounted his steed , and his wife mounted the dappled horse which she had brought from her own country then all his escort mounted . 
Counting knights and squires , there were full seven score in the train . 
Before Erec reached the town , he sent two knights ahead to announce his arrival to the King . 
Of clerks there were present fourscore , gentle and honourable men , clad in grey cloaks bordered with sable . 
Of knights there were full five hundred , mounted on bay , sorrel , or white spotted steeds . 
There were so many burghers and dames that no one could tell the number of them . 
The King and his son galloped and rode on till they saw and recognised each other . 
They both jump down from their horses and embrace and greet each other for a long time , without stirring from the place where they first met . 
Each party wished the other joy the King makes much of Erec , but all at once breaks off to turn to Enide . 
On all sides he is in clover he embraces and kisses them both , and knows not which of the two pleases him the more . 
As they gaily enter the castle , the bells all ring their peals to honour Erec's arrival . 
The streets are all strewn with reeds , mint , and iris . 
and are hung overhead with curtains and tapestries of fancy silk and satin stuffs . 
There was great rejoicing for all the people came together to see their new lord , and no one ever saw greater happiness than was shown alike by young and old . 
First they came to the church , where very devoutly they were received in a procession . 
Erec kneeled before the altar of the Crucifix , and two knights led his wife to the image of Our Lady . 
When she had finished her prayer , she stepped back a little and crossed herself with her right hand , as a well bred dame should do . 
Then they came out from the church and entered the royal palace , when the festivity began . 
That day Erec received many presents from the knights and burghers from one a palfrey of northern stock , and from another a golden cup . 
Never was a king more gladly seen in his kingdom , nor received with greater joy , as all strove to serve him well . 
Yet greater joy they made of Enide than of him , for the great beauty which they saw in her , and still more for her open charm . 
She was seated in a chamber upon a cushion of brocade which had been brought from Thessaly . 
She was so gentle and honourable , of wise speech and affable , of pleasing character and kindly mien . 
No one could ever be so watchful as to detect in her any folly , or sign of evil or villainy . 
She had been so schooled in good manners that she had learned all virtues which any lady can possess , as well as generosity and knowledge . 
All loved her for her open heart , and whoever could do her any service was glad and esteemed himself the more . 
No one spoke any ill of her , for no one could do so . 
In the realm or empire there was no lady of such good manners . 
He made of her his mistress and his sweetheart . 
He devoted all his heart and mind to fondling and kissing her , and sought no delight in other pastime . 
His friends grieved over this , and often regretted among themselves that he was so deep in love . 
Often it was past noon before he left her side for there he was happy , say what they might . 
He rarely left her society , and yet he was as open handed as ever to his knights with arms , dress , and money . 
There was not a tournament anywhere to which he did not send them well apparelled and equipped . 
Whatever the cost might be , he gave them fresh steeds for the tourney and joust . 
All the knights said it was a great pity and misfortune that such a valiant man as he was wont to be should no longer wish to bear arms . 
She grieved sorely over this , but she did not dare to show her grief for her lord at once would take affront , if she should speak to him . 
So the matter remained a secret , until one morning they lay in bed where they had had sport together . 
There they lay in close embrace , like the true lovers they were . 
He was asleep , but she was awake , thinking of what many a man in the country was saying of her lord . 
And when she began to think it all over , she could not keep back the tears . 
Such was her grief and her chagrin that by mischance she let fall a word for which she later felt remorse , though in her heart there was no guile . 
And thus , in truth , it is I who have brought shame upon his head , though I would fain not have done so at any price . 
Then she said to him Unhappy thou ! And then kept silence and spoke no more . 
Erec was not sound asleep and , though dozing , heard plainly what she said . 
I heard your words plainly enough . 
Then was Enide in a great plight , afraid and dismayed . 
Sire , says she , I know nothing of what you say . 
Lady , why do you conceal it ? Concealment is of no avail . 
You hare been crying I can see that , and you do not cry for nothing . 
And in my sleep I heard what you said . 
Ah ! fair sire , you never heard it , and I dare say it was a dream . 
Now you are coming to me with lies . 
I hear you calmly lying to me . 
But if you do not tell me the truth now , you will come to repent of it later . 
Sire , since you torment me thus , I will tell you the whole truth , and keep nothing back . 
But I am afraid that you will not like it . 
In this land they all say the dark , the fair , and the ruddy that it is a great pity that you should renounce your arms your reputation has suffered from it . 
Every one used to say not long ago that in all the world there was known no better or more gallant knight . 
Now they all go about making game of you old and young , little and great calling you a recreant . 
Many a time , when I think of it , I have to weep for very grief . 
Such chagrin I felt just now that I could not keep myself from saying that you were ill starred . 
Lady , said he , you were in the right , and those who blame me do so with reason . 
And now at once prepare yourself to take the road . 
Rise up from here , and dress yourself in your richest robe , and order your saddle to be put on your best palfrey . 
Ah ! said she , poor fool ! I was too happy , for there lacked me nothing . 
And now I must go away into exile . 
But I have yet a greater grief , that I shall no longer see my lord , who loved me with such tenderness that there was nothing he held so dear . 
The best man that was ever born had become so wrapped up in me that he cared for nothing else . 
I lacked for nothing then . 
But pride it is that stirred me up because of my pride , I must suffer woe for telling him such insulting words , and it is right that I should suffer woe . 
One does not know what good fortune is until he has made trial of evil . 
Thus the lady bemoaned her fate , while she dressed herself fitly in her richest robe . 
Yet nothing gave her any pleasure , but rather cause for deep chagrin . 
Then she had a maid call one of her squires , and bids him saddle her precious palfrey of northern stock , than which no count or king ever had a better . 
As soon as she had given him the command , the fellow asked for no delay , but straightway went and saddled the dappled palfrey . 
And Erec summoned another squire and bade him bring his arms to arm his body withal . 
Then he went up into a bower , and had a Limoges rug laid out before him on the floor . 
Meanwhile , the squire ran to fetch the arms and came back and laid them on the rug . 
Erec took a seat opposite , on the figure of a leopard which was portrayed on the rug . 
The knights and squires all began to wonder why he was being armed but no one dared to ask him why . 
When they had put on his hauberk , a valet laces about his head a helmet fluted with a band of gold , shining brighter than a mirror . 
Then he takes the sword and girds it on , and orders them to bring him saddled his bay steed of Gascony . 
She has spent too much time on her attire . 
Tell her to come and mount at once , for I am awaiting her . 
He would have mounted some time ago , had you been ready . 
Enide wondered greatly what her lord's intention was but she very wisely showed herself with as cheerful a countenance as possible , when she appeared before him . 
In the middle of the courtyard she found him , and King Lac comes running out . 
Knights come running , too , striving with each other to reach there first . 
There is neither young nor old but goes to learn and ask if he will take any of them with him . 
So each offers and presents himself . 
But he states definitely and affirms that he will take no companion except his wife , asserting that he will go alone . 
Then the King is in great distress . 
Fair son , says he , what dost thou intend to do ? Thou shouldst tell me thy business and keep nothing back . 
Tell me whither thou will go for thou art unwilling on any account to be accompanied by an escort of squires or knights . 
A king's son ought not to fare alone . 
Finally Erec makes reply and tells him all in detail how he has planned his journey . 
Sire , says he , it must be so . 
I shall take no extra horse , nor have I any use for gold or silver , squire or sergeant nor do I ask for any company save that of my wife alone . 
Upon hearing his son's request , the King said Fair son , I promise it . 
But I grieve much to see thee thus go off without escort , and if I had my way , thou shouldst not thus depart . 
Sire , it cannot be otherwise . 
I go now , and to God commend you . 
But keep in mind my companions , and give them horses and arms and all that knight may need . 
The King cannot keep back the tears when he is parted from his son . 
The people round about weep too the ladies and knights shed tears and make great moan for him . 
There is not one who does not mourn , and many a one in the courtyard swoons . 
Weeping , they kiss and embrace him , and are almost beside themselves with grief . 
I think they would not have been more sad if they had seen him dead or wounded . 
Then Erec said to comfort them My lords , why do you weep so sore ? I am neither in prison nor wounded . 
You gain nothing by this display of grief . 
If I go away , I shall come again when it please God and when I can . 
To God I commend you one and all so now let me go too long you keep me here . 
I am sorry and grieved to see you weep . 
To God he commends them and they him . 
So they departed , leaving sorrow behind them . 
Erec starts , and leads his wife he knows not whither , as chance dictates . 
Ride fast , he says , and take good care not to be so rash as to speak to me of anything you may see . 
Take care never to speak to me , unless I address you first . 
Ride on now fast and with confidence . 
Sire , says she , it shall be done . 
She rode ahead and held her peace . 
Neither one nor the other spoke a word . 
Fortune who had beckoned me has quickly now withdrawn her hand . 
I should not mind that so much , alas , if only I dared to address my lord . 
But I am mortified and distressed because my lord has turned against me , I see it clearly , since he will not speak to me . 
And I am not so bold as to dare to look at him . 
While she thus laments , a knight who lived by robbery issued forth from the woods . 
He had two companions with him , and all three were armed . 
They covet the palfrey which Enide rides . 
My lords , do you know the news I bring ? says he to his two companions . 
If we do not now make a haul , we are good for nothing cowards and are playing in bad luck . 
Here comes a lady wondrous fair , whether married or not I do not know , but she is very richly dressed . 
The palfrey and saddle , with the breast strap and reins , are worth a thousand livres of Chartres . 
I will take the palfrey for mine , and the rest of the booty you may have . 
I don't want any more for my share . 
The knight shall not lead away the lady , so help me God . 
For I intend to give him such a thrust as he will dearly pay . 
I it was who saw him first , and so it is my right to go the first and offer battle . 
They give him leave and he rides off , crouching well beneath his shield , while the other two remain aloof . 
Enide saw the robbers , and was seized with great fear . 
God , says she , what can I say ? Now my lord will be either killed or made a prisoner for there are three of them and he is alone . 
The contest is not fair between one knight and three . 
That fellow will strike him now at a disadvantage for my lord is off his guard . 
God , shall I be then such a craven as not to dare to raise my voice ? Such a coward I will not be I will not fail to speak to him . 
On the spot she turns about and calls to him Fair sire , of what are you thinking ? There come riding after you three knights who press you hard . 
I greatly fear they will do you harm . 
What ? says Erec , what's that you say ? You have surely been very bold to disdain my command and prohibition . 
This time you shall be pardoned but if it should happen another time , you would not be forgiven . 
Then turning his shield and lance , he rushes at the knight . 
The latter sees him coming and challenges him . 
When Erec hears him , he defies him . 
Both give spur and clash together , holding their lances at full extent . 
But he missed Erec , while Erec used him hard for he knew well the right attack . 
He strikes him on the shield so fiercely that he cracks it from top to bottom . 
Nor is his hauberk any protection Erec pierces and crushes it in the middle of his breast , and thrusts a foot and a half of his lance into his body . 
When he drew back , he pulled out the shaft . 
And the other fell to earth . 
He must needs die , for the blade had drunk of his life's blood . 
Then one of the other two rushes forward , leaving his companion behind , and spurs toward Erec , threatening him . 
Erec firmly grasps his shield , and attacks him with a stout heart . 
The other holds his shield before his breast . 
Then they strike upon the emblazoned shields . 
The knight's lance flies into two bits , while Erec drives a quarter of lance's length through the other's breast . 
He will give him no more trouble . 
Erec unhorses him and leaves him in a faint , while he spurs at an angle toward the third robber . 
When the latter saw him coming on he began to make his escape . 
He was afraid , and did not dare to face him so he hastened to take refuge in the woods . 
It is useless to try to escape . 
But the fellow has no desire to turn about , and continues to flee with might and main . 
Following and overtaking him , Erec hits him squarely on his painted shield , and throws him over on the other side . 
To these three robbers he gives no further heed one he has killed , another wounded , and of the third he got rid by throwing him to earth from his steed . 
He took the horses of all three and tied them together by the bridles . 
In colour they were not alike the first was white as milk , the second black and not at all bad looking , while the third was dappled all over . 
He came back to the road where Enide was awaiting him . 
She makes answer I will never do so , fair sire , if it be your will . 
Then they ride on , and she holds her peace . 
All at once they saw the lady approach in charge of the three horses , and Erec who followed after . 
As soon as they saw them , they divided their equipment among themselves , just as if they had already taken possession of it . 
Covetousness is a bad thing . 
But it did not turn out as they expected for vigorous defence was made . 
Much that a fool plans is not executed , and many a man misses what he thinks to obtain . 
So it befell them in this attack . 
The third said that he would take the black horse . 
And the white one for me , said the fourth . 
The fifth was not at all backward , and vowed that he would have the horse and arms of the knight himself . 
He wished to win them by himself , and would fain attack him first , if they would give him leave and they willingly gave consent . 
Then he leaves them and rides ahead on a good and nimble steed . 
Erec saw him , but made pretence that he did not yet notice him . 
When Enide saw them , her heart jumped with fear and great dismay . 
But if my lord were dead now , there would be no comfort for me . 
I should be killed and roughly treated . 
I know well enough that those who are coming yonder are intent upon some wicked deed . 
And God ! how shall I speak to him ? He will kill me . 
Well , let him kill me ! Yet I will not fail to speak to him . 
Then she softly calls him Sire ! What ? says he , what do you want ? Your pardon , sire . 
I want to tell you that five knights have emerged from yonder thicket , of whom I am in mortal fear . 
Having noticed them , I am of the opinion that they intend to fight with you . 
Four of them have stayed behind , and the other comes toward you as fast as his steed can carry him . 
I am afraid every moment lest he will strike you . 
'Tis true , the four have stayed behind but still they are not far away , and will quickly aid him , if need arise . 
Erec replies You had an evil thought , when you transgressed my command a thing which I had forbidden you . 
And yet I knew all the time that you did not hold me in esteem . 
Your service has been ill employed for it has not awakened my gratitude , but rather kindled the more my ire . 
I have told you that once , and I say it again . 
This once again I will pardon you but another time restrain yourself , and do not again turn around to watch me for in doing so you would be very foolish . 
I do not relish your words . 
Then he spurs across the field toward his adversary , and they come together . 
Each seeks out and assails the other . 
Erec strikes him with such force that his shield flies from his neck , and thus he breaks his collar bone . 
His stirrups break , and he falls without the strength to rise again , for he was badly bruised and wounded . 
One of the others then appeared , and they attack each other fiercely . 
Without difficulty Erec thrusts the sharp and well forged steel into his neck beneath the chin , severing thus the bones and nerves . 
At the back of his neck the blade protrudes , and the hot red blood flows down on both sides from the wound . 
He yields his spirit , and his heart is still . 
The third sallies forth from his hiding place on the other side of a ford . 
Straight through the water , on he comes . 
Erec spurs forward and meets him before he came out of the water , striking him so hard that he beats down flat both rider and horse . 
The steed lay upon the body long enough to drown him in the stream , and then struggled until with difficulty he got upon his feet . 
Thus he conquered three of them , when the other two thought it wise to quit the conflict and not to strive with him . 
In flight they follow the stream , and Erec after them in hot pursuit , until he strikes one upon the spine so hard that he throws him forward upon the saddle bow . 
He put all his strength into the blow , and breaks his lance upon his body , so that the fellow fell head foremost . 
Erec makes him pay dearly for the lance which he has broken on him , and drew his sword from the scabbard . 
The fellow unwisely straightened up for Erec gave him three such strokes that he slaked his sword's thirst in his blood . 
He severs the shoulder from his body , so that it fell down on the ground . 
Then , with sword drawn , he attacked the other , as he sought to escape without company or escort . 
He throws away his shield and lance , and slips from his horse to earth . 
He carries off his lance and goes away , not leaving the horses behind he catches all five of them and leads them off . 
So not a word does she reply , but rather keeps silence and thus they go , leading with them all the eight horses . 
They rode till nightfall without coming to any town or shelter . 
When night came on , they took refuge beneath a tree in an open field . 
Erec bids his lady sleep , and he will watch . 
She replies that she will not , for it is not right , and she does not wish to do so . 
It is for him to sleep who is more weary . 
Well pleased at this , Erec accedes . 
Beneath his head he placed his shield , and the lady took her cloak , and stretched it over him from head to foot . 
I knew it well enough before , but now I know it better . 
For I have seen with my own eyes how he has not quailed before three or even five armed men . 
A plague for ever upon my tongue for having uttered such pride and insult as now compel me to suffer shame ! All night long she thus lamented until the morning dawned . 
Erec rises early , and again they take the road , she in front and he behind . 
So he formed an honest purpose and turned his steps toward them , saluting them politely and saving Sire , I presume that you have had a hard experience last night . 
I am sure you have had no sleep and have spent the night in these woods . 
I offer you some of this white cake , if it please you to partake of it . 
I say it not in hope of reward for I ask and demand nothing of you . 
The cakes are made of good wheat I have good wine and rich cheeses , too , a white cloth and fine jugs . 
If you feel like taking lunch , you need not seek any farther . 
Beneath these white beeches , here on the greensward , you might lay off your arms and rest yourself a while . 
My advice is that you dismount . 
Erec got down from his horse and said Fair gentle friend , I thank you kindly I will eat something , without going farther . 
The young man knew well what to do he helped the lady from her horse , and the boys who had come with the squire held the steeds . 
Then they go and sit down in the shade . 
The squire relieves Erec of his helmet , unlaces the mouth piece from before his face then he spreads out the cloth before them on the thick tuff . 
He passes them the cake and wine , and prepares and cuts a cheese . 
Hungry as they were , they helped themselves , and gladly drank of the wine . 
The squire serves them and omits no attention . 
When they had eaten and drunk their fill , Erec was courteous and generous . 
Friend , says he , as a reward , I wish to present you with one of my horses . 
Take the one you like the best . 
And I pray it may be no hardship for you to return to the town and make ready there a goodly lodging . 
And he replies that he will gladly do whatever is his will . 
Then he goes up to the horses and , untying them , chooses the dapple , and speaks his thanks for this one seems to be the best . 
Up he springs by the left stirrup , and leaving them both there , he rode off to the town at top speed , where he engaged suitable quarters . 
Now behold ! he is back again Now mount , sire , quickly , says he , for you have a good fine lodging ready . 
Erec mounted , and then his lady , and , as the town was hard by , they soon had reached their lodging place . 
There they were received with joy . 
The host with kindness welcomed them , and with joy and gladness made generous provision for their needs . 
The Count and three of his vassals were leaning out of the bower , when the Count , seeing his squire mounted on the dappled steed , asked him whose it was . 
And he replied that it was his . 
The Count , greatly astonished , says How is that ? Where didst thou get him ? A knight whom I esteem highly gave him to me , sire , says he . 
I have conducted him within this town , and he is lodged at a burgher's house . 
He is a very courteous knight and the handsomest man I ever saw . 
Even if I had given you my word and oath , I could not half tell you how handsome he is . 
The Count replies I suppose and presume that he is not more handsome than I am . 
Upon my word , sire , the sergeant says , you are very handsome and a gentleman . 
There is not a knight in this country , a native of this land , whom you do not excel in favour . 
But I dare maintain concerning this one that he is fairer than you , if he were not beaten black and blue beneath his hauberk , and bruised . 
In the forest he has been fighting single handed with eight knights , and leads away their eight horses . 
And there comes with him a lady so fair that never lady was half so fair as she . 
When the Count hears this news , the desire takes him to go and see if this is true or false . 
I never heard such a thing , says he take me now to his lodging place , for certainly I wish to know if thou dost lie or speak the truth . 
He replies Right gladly , sire . 
This is the way and the path to follow , for it is not far from here . 
I am anxious to see them , says the Count . 
Then he comes down , and the squire gets off his horse , and makes the Count mount in his place . 
Then he ran ahead to tell Erec that the Count was coming to visit him . 
Erec's lodging was rich indeed the kind to which he was accustomed . 
There were many tapers and candles lighted all about . 
The Count came attended by only three companions . 
Erec , who was of gracious manners , rose to meet him , and exclaimed Welcome , sire ! And the Count returned his salutation . 
They both sat down side by side upon a soft white couch , where they chat with each other . 
The Count makes him an offer and urges him to consent to accept from him a guarantee for the payment of his expenses in the town . 
But Erec does not deign to accept , saying he is well supplied with money , and has no need to accept aught from him . 
They speak long of many things , but the Count constantly glances about in the other direction , where he caught sight of the lady . 
Because of her manifest beauty , he fixed all his thought on her . 
He looked at her as much as he could he coveted her , and she pleased him so that her beauty filled him with love . 
Very craftily he asked Erec for permission to speak with her . 
Sire , he says I ask a favour of you , and may it not displease you . 
As an act of courtesy and as a pleasure , I would fain sit by yonder lady's side . 
With good intent I came to see you both , and you should see no harm in that . 
I wish to present to the lady my service in all respects . 
Know well that for love of you I would do whatever may please her . 
Erec was not in the least jealous and suspected no evil or treachery . 
Sire , says he , I have no objection . 
You may sit down and talk with her . 
Don't think that I have any objection . 
I give you permission willingly . 
The lady was seated about two spear lengths away from him . 
And the Count took his seat close beside her on a low stool . 
Prudent and courteous , the lady turned toward him . 
Alas , quoth he , how grieved I am to see you in such humble state ! I am sorry and feel great distress . 
But if you would believe my word , you could have honour and great advantage , and much wealth would accrue to you . 
Such beauty as yours is entitled to great honour and distinction . 
I would make you my mistress , if it should please you and be your will you would be my mistress dear and lady over all my land . 
When I deign to woo you thus , you ought not to disdain my suit . 
I know and perceive that your lord does not love and esteem you . 
If you will remain with me , you would be mated with a worthy lord . 
Sire , says Enide , your proposal is vain . 
You have made a great mistake in making such a proposal to me . 
I shall not agree to it in any wise . 
The Count's ire began to rise . 
You disdain to love me , lady ? says he upon my word , you are too proud . 
I give you my word that if you do not do my will there soon will be some sword play here . 
Rightly or wrongly , I will have your lord slain right here before your eyes . 
Ah , sire , says Enide , there is a better way than that you say . 
You would commit a wicked and treacherous deed if you killed him thus . 
Calm yourself again , I pray for I will do your pleasure . 
You may regard me as all your own , for I am yours and wish to be . 
I did not speak as I did from pride , but to learn and prove if I could find in you the true love of a sincere heart . 
But I would not at any price have you commit an act of treason . 
My lord is not on his guard and if you should kill him thus , you would do a very ugly deed , and I should have the blame for it . 
Every one in the land would say that it had been done with my consent . 
Go and rest until the morrow , when my lord shall be about to rise . 
Then you can better do him harm without blame and without reproach . 
With her heart's thoughts her words do not agree . 
Sire , says she , believe me now ! Have no anxiety but send here to morrow your knights and squires and have me carried away by force . 
My lord will rush to my defence , for he is proud and bold enough . 
Either in earnest or in jest , have him seized and treated ill , or strike his head off , if you will . 
I have led this life now long enough to tell the truth . 
I like not the company of this my lord . 
Rather would I feel your body lying beside me in a bed . 
And since we have reached this point , of my love you may rest assured . 
The Count replies It is well , my lady ! God bless the hour that you were born in great estate you shall be held . 
Sire , says she , indeed , I believe it . 
And yet I would fain have your word that you will always hold me dear I could not believe you otherwise . 
Glad and merry , the Count replies See here , my faith I will pledge to you loyally as a Count , Madame , that I shall do all your behests . 
Have no further fear of that . 
All you want you shall always have . 
Then she took his plighted word but little she valued or cared for it , except therewith to save her lord . 
Well she knows how to deceive a fool , when she puts her mind upon it . 
Better it were to lie to him than that her lord should be cut off . 
The Count now rose from her side , and commends her to God a hundred times . 
But of little use to him will be the faith which she has pledged to him . 
Erec knew nothing at all of this that they were plotting to work his death but God will be able to lend him aid , and I think He will do so . 
Now Erec is in great peril , and does not know that he must be on his guard . 
The Count's intentions are very base in planning to steal away his wife and kill him when he is without defence . 
In treacherous guise he takes his leave To God I commend you , says he , and Erec replies And so do I you , sire . 
Already a good part of the night was passed . 
Out of the way , in one of the rooms , two beds were made upon the floor . 
In one of them Erec lays him down , in the other Enide went to rest . 
She knows full well that if he once gets possession of her lord , he will not fail to do him harm . 
He may be sure of being killed so for his sake she is in distress . 
Erec slept all night long securely until daylight . 
Then Enide realised and suspected that she might hesitate too long . 
Her heart was tender toward her lord , like a good and loyal lady . 
Her heart was neither deceitful nor false . 
So she rises and makes ready , and drew near to her lord to wake him up . 
Ah , sire , says she , I crave your pardon . 
Rise quickly now , for you are betrayed beyond all doubt , though guiltless and free from any crime . 
The Count is a proven traitor , and if he can but catch you here , you will never get away without his having cut you in pieces . 
He hates you because he desires me . 
But if it please God , who knows all things , you shall be neither slain nor caught . 
Last evening he would have killed you had I not assured him that I would be his mistress and his wife . 
You will see him return here soon he wants to seize me and keep me here and kill you if he can find you . 
Now Erec learns how loyal his wife is to him . 
Lady , says he , have our horses quickly saddled then run and call our host , and tell him quickly to come here . 
Treason has been long abroad . 
Now the horses are saddled , and the lady summoned the host . 
Erec has armed and dressed himself , and into his presence came the host . 
You have received me with honour and kindness , and therein great merit redounds to you . 
Cancel my indebtedness with these seven horses that I brought here with me . 
Do not disdain them , but keep them for your own . 
I cannot increase my gift to you by so much as the value of a halter . 
The burgher was delighted with this gift and bowed low , expressing his thanks and gratitude . 
Then Erec mounts and takes his leave , and they set out upon their way . 
As they ride , he frequently warns Enide that if she sees anything she should not be so bold as to speak to him about it . 
Meanwhile , there entered the house a hundred knights well armed , and very much dismayed they were to find Erec no longer there . 
Then the Count learned that the lady had deceived him . 
Then they plunge on at topmost speed , filled with hostility toward him who had never laid eyes on them and had never harmed them by deed or word . 
They ride ahead until they made him out at the edge of a forest they catch sight of him before he was hid by the forest trees . 
Not one of them halted then , but all rushed on in rivalry . 
Enide hears the clang and noise of their arms and horses , and sees that the valley is full of them . 
As soon as she saw them , she could not restrain her tongue . 
Ah , sire , she cries . 
alas , how this Count has attacked you , when he leads against you such a host ! Sire , ride faster now , until we be within this wood . 
I think we can easily distance them , for they are still a long way behind . 
If you go on at this pace , you can never escape from death , for you are no match for them . 
Erec replies Little esteem you have for me , and lightly you hold my words . 
It seems I cannot correct you by fair request . 
Then he straightway turns about , and sees the seneschal drawing near upon a horse both strong and fleet . 
Before them all he takes his stand at the distance of four cross bow shots . 
He had not disposed of his arms , but was thoroughly well equipped . 
Erec reckons up his opponents' strength , and sees there are fully a hundred of them . 
Then he who thus is pressing him thinks he had better call a hair . 
Then they ride to meet each other , and strike upon each other's shield great blows with their sharp and trenchant swords . 
Erec caused his stout steel sword to pierce his body through and through , so that his shield and hauberk protected him no more than a shred of dark blue silk . 
And next the Count comes spurring on , who , as the story tells , was a strong and doughty knight . 
But the Count in this was ill advised when he came with only shield and lance . 
He placed such trust in his own prowess that he thought that he needed no other arms . 
He showed his exceeding boldness by rushing on ahead of all his men more than the space of nine acres . 
When Erec saw him stand alone , he turned toward him the Count is not afraid of him , and they come together with clash of arms . 
First the Count strikes him with such violence upon the breast that he would have lost his stirrups if he had not been well set . 
He makes the wood of his shield to split so that the iron of his lance protrudes on the other side . 
But Erec's hauberk was very solid and protected him from death without the tear of a single mesh . 
Then he turned and rode away without further tarrying on the spot . 
Straight into the forest he spurs at full speed . 
Now Erec is in the woods , and the others paused a while over those who lay in the middle of the field . 
Loudly they swear and vow that they will rather follow after him for two or three days than fail to capture and slaughter him . 
The Count , though grievously wounded in the abdomen , hears what they say . 
He draws himself up a little and opens his eyes a tiny bit . 
Now he realises what an evil deed he had begun to execute . 
All of you return now quickly ! I have done a villainous deed , and I repent me of my foul design . 
The lady who outwitted me is very honourable , prudent , and courteous . 
Her beauty fired me with love for her because I desired her , I wished to kill her lord and keep her back with me by force . 
I well deserved this woe , and now it has come upon me . 
How abominably disloyal and treacherous I was in my madness ! Never was there a better knight born of mother than he . 
Never shall he receive harm through me if I can in any way prevent it . 
I command you all to retrace your steps . 
Back they go disconsolate , carrying the lifeless seneschal on the shield reversed . 
The Count , whose wound was not mortal , lived on for some time after . 
Erec goes off at full speed down a road between two hedgerows he and his wife with him . 
Both putting spurs to their horses , they rode until they came to a meadow which had been mown . 
After emerging from the hedged enclosure they came upon a drawbridge before a high tower , which was all closed about with a wall and a broad and deep moat . 
They quickly pass over the bridge , but had not gone far before the lord of the place espied them from up in his tower . 
About this man I can tell you the truth that he was very small o stature , but very courageous of heart . 
His command was quickly done behold the horse now led forth a squire brought him around already bridled and with saddle on . 
Another fellow brings the arms . 
The knight passed out through the gate , as quickly as possible , all alone , without companion . 
Enide heard the noise and commotion , and almost fell from her palfrey , helpless and in a faint . 
There was no vein in her body in which the blood did not turn , and her face became all pale and white as if she were a corpse . 
Great is her despair and dismay , for she does not dare to address her lord , who often threatens and chides at her and charges her to hold her peace . 
She is distracted between two courses to pursue , whether to speak or to hold her peace . 
Thus she admonishes and reproaches herself , but she closes her mouth and grits her teeth so that her speech cannot issue forth . 
At strife with herself , she said I am sure and certain that I shall incur a grievous loss , if here I lose my lord . 
Shall I tell him all , then , openly ? Not I. Why not ? I would not dare , for thus I should enrage my lord . 
And if my lord's ire is once aroused , he will leave me in this wild place alone , wretched and forlorn . 
Then I shall be worse off than now . 
But if I do not quickly inform him , this knight who is spurring hither will have killed him before he is aware for he seems of very evil intent . 
I think I have waited too long from fear of his vigorous prohibition . 
But I will no longer hesitate because of his restraint . 
I see plainly that my lord is so deep in thought that he forgets himself so it is fight that I should address him . 
He rides toward the knight , who challenges him to battle , and they meet at the foot of the hill , where they attack and defy each other . 
Both smite each other with their iron tipped lances with all their strength . 
The shields that hang about their necks are not worth two coats of bark the leather tears , and they split the wood , and they shatter the meshes of the hauberks . 
Both are pierced to the vitals by the lances , and the horses fall to earth . 
Now , both the warriors were doughty . 
Grievously , but not mortally , wounded , they quickly got upon their feet and grasped afresh their lances , which were not broken nor the worse for wear . 
But they cast them away on the ground , and drawing their swords from the scabbard , they attack each other with great fury . 
Each wounds and injures the other , for there is no mercy on either side . 
They deal such blows upon the helmets that gleaming sparks fly out when their swords recoil . 
They split and splinter the shields they batter and crush the hauberks . 
In four places the swords are brought down to the bare flesh , so that they are greatly weakened and exhausted . 
And if both their swords had lasted long without breaking , they would never have retreated , nor would the battle have come to an end before one of them perforce had died . 
Enide , who was watching them , was almost beside herself with grief . 
Whoever could have seen her then , as she showed her great woe by wringing her hands , tearing her hair and shedding tears , could have seen a loyal lady . 
And any man would have been a vulgar wretch who saw and did not pity her . 
And the knights still fight , knocking the jewels from the helmets and dealing at each other fearful blows . 
From the third to the ninth hour the battle continued so fierce that no one could in any wise make out which was to have the better of it . 
Then he attacked Erec in turn , and dealt him such a blow upon the covering of his shield that his strong and precious sword broke when he tried to pull it out . 
When he saw that his sword was broken , in a spite he threw as far away as he could the part that remained in his hand . 
Now he was afraid and must needs draw back for any knight that lacks his sword cannot do much execution in battle or assault . 
Erec pursues him until he begs him , for God's sake , not to kill him . 
Mercy , noble knight , he cries , be not so cruel and harsh toward me . 
Now that I am left without my sword , you have the strength and the power to take my life or make me your prisoner , for I have no means of defence . 
Erec replies When thou thus dost petition me I fain would hear thee admit outright whether thou art defeated and overcome . 
Thou shalt not again be touched by me if thou dost surrender at my discretion . 
The knight was slow to make reply . 
Erec answers More than that is necessary . 
You shall not get off so easily as that . 
Tell me your station and your name , and I in turn will tell you mine . 
Sire , says he , you are right . 
I am king of this country . 
My liegemen are Irishmen , and there is none who does not have to pay me rent . 
My name is Guivret the Little . 
I am very rich and powerful for there is no landholder whose lands touch mine in any direction who ever transgresses my command and who does not do my pleasure . 
I have no neighbour who does not fear me , however proud and bold he may be . 
But I greatly desire to be your confidant and friend from this time on . 
Erec replies I , too , can boast that I am a noble man . 
My name is Erec , son of King Lac . 
Him , of course , I except for with him none can compare . 
Guivret is greatly astonished at this , and says Sire , a great marvel is this I hear . 
I was never so glad of anything as of your acquaintance . 
You may put full trust in me ! And should it please you to abide in my country within my estates , I shall have you treated with great honour . 
So long as you care to remain here , you shall be recognised as my lord . 
We both have need of a physician , and I have a castle of mine near here , not eight leagues away , nor even seven . 
I wish to take you thither with me , and there we shall have our wounds tended . 
Erec replies I thank you for what I have heard you say . 
However , I will not go , thank you . 
I have nothing more to ask of you , says Erec you have promised me much . 
You are now my lord and friend , if your deed is as good as your word . 
Then each kisses and embraces the other . 
When they had thus bandaged each other , they commended each other to God . 
Guivret takes his way back alone , while Erec resumed his road , in dire need of plaster wherewith to heal his wounds . 
Now King Arthur and the Queen and the best of his barons had come there that very day . 
The King wished to spend three or four days in the forest for pleasure and sport , and had commanded tents , pavilions , and canopies to be brought . 
My lord Gawain had stepped into the King's tent , all tired out by a long ride . 
In front of the tent a white beech stood , and there he had left a shield of his , together with his ashen lance . 
He left his steed , all saddled and bridled , fastened to a branch by the rein . 
There the horse stood until Kay the seneschal came by . 
He came up quickly and , as if to beguile the time , took the steed and mounted , without the interference of any one . 
He took the lance and the shield , too , which were close by under the tree . 
Galloping along on the steed , Kay rode along a valley until it came about by chance that Erec met him . 
Now Erec recognised the seneschal , and he knew the arms and the horse , but Kay did not recognise him , for he could not be distinguished by his arms . 
So many blows of sword and lance had he received upon his shield that all the painted design had disappeared from it . 
Kay approached rapidly and straightway seized Erec's rein , without so much as saluting him . 
Before he let him move , he presumptuously asked him Knight , says he , I wish to know who you are and whence you come . 
You must be mad to stop me thus , says Erec you shall not know that just now . 
And the other replies Be not angry I only ask it for your good . 
I can see and make out clearly that you are wounded and hurt . 
King Arthur and the Queen are close by here in a wood , lodged in pavilions and tents . 
In all good faith , I advise you to come with me to see the Queen and King , who will take much pleasure in you and will show you great honour . 
Erec replies You say well yet will I not go thither for anything . 
You know not what my business is I must yet farther pursue my way . 
Now let me go too long I stay . 
There is still some daylight left . 
Kay makes answer You speak madness when you decline to come . 
I trow you will repent of it . 
And however much it may be against your will , you shall both go , as the priest goes to the council , willy nilly . 
To night you will be badly served , if , unmindful of my advice , you go there as strangers . 
Come now quickly , for I will take you . 
At this word Erec's ire was roused . 
Vassal , says he , you are mad to drag me thus after you by force . 
You have taken me quite off my guard . 
I tell you you have committed an offence . 
For I thought to be quite safe , and was not on my guard against you . 
Then he lays his hand upon his sword and cries Hands off my bridle , vassal ! Step aside . 
I consider you proud and impudent . 
I shall strike you , be sure of that , if you drag me longer after you . 
Then he lets him go , and draws off across the field more than an acre's width then turns about and , as a man with evil intent , issues his challenge . 
Each rushed at the other . 
But , because Kay was without armour , Erec acted courteously and turned the point of his lance about and presented the butt end instead . 
Then he went to catch the horse and hands him over by the bridle to Enide . 
He was about to lead it away , when the wounded man with his wonted flattery begs him to restore it courteously to him . 
With fair words he flatters and wheedles him . 
Vassal , says he , so help me God , that horse is not mine . 
Rather does it belong to that knight in whom dwells the greatest prowess in the world , my lord Gawain the Bold . 
I tell you so much on his behalf , in order that you may send it back to him and thus win honour . 
So shall you be courteous and wise , and I shall be your messenger . 
Erec makes answer Take the horse , vassal , and lead it away . 
Since it belongs to my lord Gawain it is not meet that I should appropriate it . 
Kay takes the horse , remounts , and coming to the royal tent , tells the King the whole truth , keeping nothing back . 
And if you can influence him and bring him along with you to us , take care not to fail to do so . 
Then Gawain mounts his steed , two squires following after him . 
They soon made Erec out , but did not recognise him . 
Gawain salutes him , and he Gawain their greetings were mutual . 
Then said my lord Gawain with his wonted openness Sire , says he , King Arthur sends me along this way to encounter you . 
, as they are close by . 
Erec replies I am greatly obliged to the King and Queen and to you who are , it seems , both kind of heart and of gentle mien . 
I am not in a vigorous state rather do I bear wounds within my body yet will I not turn aside from my way to seek a lodging place . 
So you need not longer wait I thank you , but you may be gone . 
Now Gawain was a man of sense . 
The fellow went and gave his message . 
The King without delay causes his tents to be taken down . 
Now they are lowered , the sumpters loaded , and off they set . 
The King mounted Aubagu , and the Queen afterwards mounted a white Norse palfrey . 
All this while , my lord Gawain did not cease to detain Erec , until the latter said to him Yesterday I covered more ground than I shall do to day . 
Sire , you annoy me let me go . 
You have already disturbed a good part of my day . 
And my lord Gawain answers him I should like to accompany you a little way , if you do not object for it is yet a long while until night . 
They spent so much time in talking that all the tents were set up before them , and Erec sees them , and perceives that his lodging is arranged for him . 
Ah ! Gawain , he says , your shrewdness has outwitted me . 
By your great cunning you have kept me here . 
Since it has turned out thus , I shall tell you my name at once . 
Further concealment would be useless . 
I am Erec , who was formerly your companion and friend . 
Gawain hears him and straightway embraces him . 
He raised up his helmet and unlaced his mouthpiece . 
Joyfully he clasps him in his embrace , while Erec embraces him in turn . 
But first I must embrace and welcome and speak comfortably to my lady Enide , your wife . 
My lady the Queen has a great desire to see her . 
I heard her speak of her only yesterday . 
Then he steps up to Enide and asks her how she is , if she is well and in good case . 
Gawain replies This grieves me much . 
It is perfectly evident from his face , which is all pale and colourless . 
Now start and ride along slowly . 
I shall ride ahead at top speed to tell the Queen and the King that you are following after me . 
I am sure that they will both be delighted when they hear it . 
Then he goes , and comes to the King's tent . 
Sire , he cries , now you and my lady must be glad , for here come Erec and his wife . 
The King leaps to his feet with joy . 
Upon my word ! he says , right glad I am . 
I could hear no news which could give me so much happiness . 
The Queen and all the rest rejoice , and come out from the tents as fast as they may . 
Even the King comes forth from his pavilion , and they met Erec near at band . 
When Erec sees the King coming , he quickly dismounts , and Enide too . 
The King embraces and meets them , and the Queen likewise tenderly kisses and embraces them there is no one that does not show his joy . 
Right there , upon the spot , they took off Erec's armour and when they saw his wounds , their joy turned to sadness . 
The King draws a deep sigh at the sight of them , and has a plaster brought which Morgan , his sister , had made . 
They brought to the King the piaster which gave Erec great relief . 
For this Erec thanks the King , saying Fair sire , my wounds are not so painful that I should desire to abandon my journey . 
No one could detain me to morrow , without delay , I shall wish to get off in the morning , as soon as I see the dawn . 
At this the King shook his head and said This is a great mistake for you not to remain with us . 
I know that you are far from well . 
Stay here , and you will do the right thing . 
It will be a great pity and cause for grief if you die in this forest . 
Fair gentle friend , stay here now until you are quite yourself again . 
Erec replies Enough of this . 
I have undertaken this journey , and shall not tarry in any wise . 
The servants go to make their preparations . 
It was a Saturday night so they ate fish and fruit , pike and perch , salmon and trout , and then pears both raw and cooked . 
Soon after supper they ordered the beds to be made ready . 
The King , who held Erec dear , had him laid in a bed alone for he did not wish that any one should lie with him who might touch his wounds . 
That night he was well lodged . 
In another bed close by lay Enide with the Queen under a cover of ermine , and they all slept in great repose until the day broke next morning . 
Next day , as soon as it is dawn . 
Erec arises , dresses , commands his horses to be saddled , and orders his arms to be brought to him . 
The valets run and bring them to him . 
Again the King and all the knights urge him to remain but entreaty is of no avail , for he will not stay for anything . 
Then you might have seen them all weep and show such grief as if they already saw him dead . 
He puts on his arms , and Enide arises . 
All the knights are sore distressed , for they think they will never see them more . 
They follow them out from the tents , and send for their own horses , that they may escort and accompany them . 
Erec said to them Be not angry ! but you shall not accompany me a single step . 
I'll thank you if you'll stay behind ! His horse was brought to him , and he mounts without delay . 
Taking his shield and lance , he commends them all to God , and they in turn wish Erec well . 
Then Enide mounts , and they ride away . 
Entering a forest , they rode on without halting till hour of prime . 
While they thus traversed the wood , they heard in the distance the cry of a damsel in great distress . 
When Erec heard the cry , he felt sure from the sound that it was the voice of one in trouble and in need of help . 
Straightway calling Enide , he says Lady , there is some maiden who goes through the wood calling aloud . 
I take it that she is in need of aid and succour . 
I am going to hasten in that direction and see what her trouble is . 
Do you dismount and await me here , while I go yonder . 
Gladly , sire , she says . 
The maiden was rending her garments , and tearing her hair and her tender crimson face . 
Erec sees her and , wondering greatly , begs her to tell him why she cries and weeps so sore . 
The maiden cries and sighs again , then sobbing , says Fair sire , it is no wonder if I grieve , for I wish I were dead . 
I neither love nor prize my life , for my lover has been led away prisoner by two wicked and cruel giants who are his mortal enemies . 
God ! what shall I do ? Woe is me ! deprived of the best knight alive , the most noble and the most courteous . 
And now he is in great peril of death . 
This very day , and without cause , they will bring him to some vile death . 
Noble knight , for God's sake , I beg you to succour my lover , if now you can lend him any aid . 
You will not have to run far , for they must still be close by . 
If the giants let him live until I can find him , I intend to measure my strength with theirs . 
Noble knight , the maiden said , I shall always be your servant if you restore to me my lover . 
Now go in God's name , and make haste , I beseech you . 
Which way lies their path ? This way , my lord . 
Here is the path with the footprints . 
Then Erec started at a gallop , and told her ro await him there . 
The maid commends him to the Lord , and prays God very fervently that He should give him force by His command to discomfit those who intend evil toward her lover . 
Erec went off along the trail , spurring his horse in pursuit of the giants . 
Down his sides and flanks the blood ran , so that the nag was all covered with blood down to the belly . 
Erec came along alone after them . 
He was very sad and distressed about the knight whom he saw them treat so spitefully . 
You are driving him just as if he had been caught stealing . 
It is a monstrous insult to strip a knight naked , and then bind him and beat him so shamefully . 
Hand him over to me , I beg of you with all good will and courtesy . 
I have no wish to demand him of you forcibly . 
Vassal , they say , what business is this of yours ? You must be mad to make any demand of us . 
If you do not like it , try and improve matters . 
Erec replies Indeed , I like it not , and you shall not lead him away so easily . 
Since you have left the matter in my hands , I say whoever can get possession of him let him keep him . 
You shall not take him any farther before some blows have been dealt . 
Vassal , they reply , you are mad , indeed , to wish to measure your strength with us . 
If you were four instead of one , you would have no more strength against us than one lamb against two wolves . 
I do not know how it will turn out , Erec replies if the sky fails and the earth melts , then many a lark will be caught . 
Many a man boasts loudly who is of little worth . 
On guard now , for I am going to attack you . 
The giants were strong and fierce , and held in their clenched hands their big clubs tipped with iron . 
Erec went at them lance in rest . 
When the other saw him dead , he had reason to be sorely grieved . 
Even so , the giant landed such a blow that it quite stunned him , and almost made him fall to earth from his steed . 
Erec covers himself with his shield and the giant , recovering himself , thinks to strike again quickly upon his head . 
He scatters his bowels upon the earth , and the body falls full length , split in two halves . 
The knight weeps with joy and , worshipping , praises God who has sent him this aid . 
And he replied Noble knight , thou art my liege lord . 
Henceforth , I shall always accompany thee and serve thee as my lord . 
Because of you , she grieves and moans for full of sorrow is her heart . 
I wish to present you to her now . 
As soon as I have reunited you with her , I shall continue my way alone for you have no call to go with me . 
I have no need cf your company but I fain would know your name . 
Sire , says he , as you wish . 
Since you desire to know my name , it must not be kept from you . 
My name is Cadoc of Tabriol know that thus I am called . 
But since I must part from you . 
Erec replies Friend , that I will never confide to you . 
Go thither quickly and take him word that you are sent to him as a gift by him whom yesterday within his tent he joyfully received and lodged . 
And be careful not to conceal from him from what peril I set free both your life and body . 
I am dearly cherished at the court , and if you present yourself in my name you will do me a service and honour . 
There you shall ask who I am but you cannot know it otherwise . 
Sire , says Cadoc , I will follow your bidding in all respects . 
You need never have any fear that I do not go with a glad heart . 
I shall tell the King the full truth regarding the battle which you have fought on my behalf . 
Thus speaking , they continued their way until they came to the maiden where Erec had left her . 
The damsel's joy knew no bounds when she saw coming her lover whom she never thought to see again . 
Taking him by the hand , Erec presents him to her with the words Grieve no longer , demoiselle ! Behold your lover glad and joyous . 
And she with prudence makes reply Sire , by right you have won us both . 
Yours we should be , to serve and honour . 
But who could ever repay half the debt we owe you ? Erec makes answer My gentle lady , no recompense do I ask of you . 
To God I now commend you both , for too long , methinks , I have tarried here . 
Then he turns his horse about , and rides away as fast as he can . 
Cadoc of Tabriol with his damsel rides off in another direction and soon he told the news to King Arthur and the Queen . 
Erec continues to ride at great speed to the place where Enide was awaiting him in great concern , thinking that surely he had completely deserted her . 
And he , too , was in great fear lest some one , finding her alone , might have carried her off . 
So he made all haste to return . 
But the heat of the day was such , and his arms caused him such distress , that his wounds broke open and burst the bandages . 
His wounds never stopped bleeding before he came directly to the spot where Enide was waiting for him . 
As he was descending a hill he fell suddenly over upon his horse's neck . 
As he tried to straighten up , he lost his saddle and stirrups , falling , as if lifeless , in a faint . 
Then began such heavy grief , when Enide saw him fall to earth . 
Full of fear at the sight of him , she runs toward him like one who makes no concealment of her grief . 
Aloud she cries , and wrings her hands not a shred of her robe remains untorn across her breast . 
She begins to tear her hair and lacerate her tender face . 
When she recovered , she said to herself reproachfully Woe is me , wretched Enide I am the murderer of my lord , in having killed him by my speech . 
My lord would still be now alive , if I in my mad presumption had not spoken the word which engaged him in this adventure . 
Silence never harmed any one , but speech often worketh woe . 
The truth of this I have tried and proved in more ways than one . 
Beside her lord she took her seat , holding his head upon her lap . 
Then she begins her dole anew . 
Thus shall I die in spite of Death , who will not heed my call for aid . 
Yet , I cannot die through mere desire , nor would complaining avail me aught . 
The sword , which my lord had gilded on , ought by right to avenge his death . 
I will not longer consume myself in distress , in prayer , and vain desire . 
She draws the sword forth from its sheath and begins to consider it . 
The Count then dismounted from his horse and began to inquire of her concerning the knight , and whether she was his wife or his lady love . 
Both one and the other , sire , she says , my sorrow is such as I cannot tell . 
Woe is me that I am not dead . 
Do not sink into apathy , but comfort yourself that will be wise , and God will give you joy again . 
And I shall have the body removed and laid away with great honour . 
Leave off now this grief of yours which in your frenzy you display . 
And she replies Sire , begone ! For God's sake , let me be ! You can accomplish nothing here . 
Nothing that one could say or do could ever make me glad again . 
At this the Count drew back and said Let us make a bier , whereon to carry away this body with the lady to the town of Limors . 
There the body shall be interred . 
Then will I espouse the lady , whether or not she give consent for never did I see any one so fair , nor desire any as I do her . 
Happy I am to have met with her . 
Now make quickly and without delay a proper bier for this dead knight . 
Halt not for the trouble , nor from sloth . 
Then some of his men draw out their swords and soon cut two saplings , upon which they laid branches cross wise . 
Upon this litter they laid Erec down then hitched two horses to it . 
All the way to Limors they escort the body , until they come to the palace of the Count . 
All the people follow up after them ladies , knights , and townspeople . 
In the middle off the hall upon a dais they stretched the body out full length , with his lance and shield alongside . 
The hall is full , the crowd is dense . 
Each one is anxious to inquire what is this trouble , what marvel here . 
Meanwhile the Count takes counsel with his barons privily . 
My lords , he says , upon the spot I wish to espouse this lady here . 
We can plainly judge by her beauty and prudent mien that she is of very gentle rank . 
Her beauty and noble bearing show that the honour of a kingdom or empire might well be bestowed upon her . 
I shall never suffer disgrace through her rather I think to win more honour . 
Have my chaplain summoned now , and do you go and fetch the lady . 
The half of all my land I will give her as her dower if she will comply with my desire . 
But in spite of all , the Count married her in accordance with his wish . 
And when he had married her , the constable at once had the tables set in the palace , and had the food prepared for already it was time for the evening meal . 
After vespers , that day in May , Enide was in sore distress , nor did her grief cease to trouble her . 
In spite of her , they made her take a seat and placed the table in front of her . 
The Count takes his place on the other side , almost beside himself with rage to find that he cannot comfort her . 
Lady , he says , you must now leave off this grief and banish it . 
You can have full trust in me , that honour and riches will be yours . 
You must surely realise that mourning will not revive the dead for no one ever saw such a thing come about . 
Remember now , though poor you were , that great riches are within your reach . 
Once you were poor rich now you will be . 
Fortune has not been stingy toward you , in bestowing upon you the honour of being henceforth hailed as Countess . 
It is true that your lord is dead . 
If you grieve and lament because of this , do you think that I am surprised ? Nay . 
But I am giving you the best advice I know how to give . 
In that I have married you , you ought to be content . 
Take care you do not anger me ! Eat now , as I bid you do . 
And she replies Not I , my lord . 
In faith , as long as I live I will neither eat nor drink unless I first see my lord eat who is lying on yonder dais Lady , that can never be . 
People will think that you are mad when you talk such great nonsense . 
You will receive a poor reward if you give occasion to day for further reproof . 
To this she vouchsafed no reply , holding his threats in slight esteem , and the Count strikes her upon the face . 
At this she shrieks , and the barons present blame the Count . 
sire ! they cry to the Count you ought to be ashamed of having struck this lady because she will not eat . 
You have done a very ugly deed . 
If this lady is distressed because of her lord whom she now sees dead , no one should say that she is wrong . 
the Count replies the dame is mine and I am hers , and I will do with her as I please . 
At this she could not hold her peace , but swears she will never be his . 
And the Count springs up and strikes her again , and she cries out aloud . 
Ha ! wretch , she says , I care not what thou say to me , or what thou do ! I fear not thy blows , nor yet thy threats . 
Beat me and strike me , as thou wilt . 
In the midst of these words and disputes Erec recovered from his swoon , like a man who awakes from sleep . 
No wonder that he was amazed at the crowd of people he saw around . 
But great was his grief and great his woe when he heard the voice of his wife . 
He stepped to the floor from off the dais and quickly drew his sword . 
Wrath and the love he bore his wife gave him courage . 
The knights spring from the tables , persuaded that it is the devil who had made his way among them there . 
Of young or old there none remains , for all were thrown in great dismay . 
Each one tries to outrun the other in beating a hasty retreat . 
He who is last in the surging throng would fain get into the foremost line . 
Thus they make good their escape in flight , for one dares not stand upon another's going . 
Erec ran to seize his shield , hanging it about his neck by the strap , while Enide lays hands upon the lance . 
Then they step out into the courtyard . 
This chance encounter pleased Erec well as he steps up quickly to the horse , the boy in fear straightway yields him up . 
The horse bears them both away and finding open the town gate , they make their escape without detention . 
In the town there was great anxiety about the Count who had been killed but there is no one , however brave , who follows Erec to take revenge . 
At his table the Count was slain while Erec , who bears his wife away , embraces and kisses and gives her cheer . 
From this time on for evermore , I offer myself to do your will just as I used to do before . 
And if you have spoken ill of me , I pardon you and call you quit of both the offence and the word you spoke . 
Then he kisses her again and clasps her tight . 
Now Enide is not ill at ease when her lord clasps and kisses her and tells her again that he loves her still . 
Rapidly through the night they ride , and they are very glad that the moon shines bright . 
Meanwhile , the news has travelled fast , and there is nothing else so quick . 
Count Oringle of Limors had found them both , and had caused the corpse to be borne away , and wished himself to espouse the lady but she refused him . 
When Guivret heard this news , he was by no means pleased for at once the thought of Erec occurred to him . 
It came into his heart and mind to go and seek out the lady , and to have the body honourably interred . 
if it should turn out to be he . 
He assembled a thousand men at arms and knights to take the town . 
If the Count would not surrender of his own accord the body and the lady , he would put all to fire and flame . 
In the moonlight shining clear he led his men on toward Limors , with helmets laced , in hauberks clad , and from their necks the shields were hung . 
Thus , under arms , they all advanced until nearly midnight , when Erec espied them . 
Now he expects to be ensnared or killed or captured inevitably . 
He makes Enide dismount beside a thicket hedge . 
No wonder if he is dismayed . 
Lady , do you stay here , he says , beside this thicket hedge a while , until these people shall have passed . 
I do not wish them to catch sight of you , for I do not know what manner of people they are , nor of what they go in search . 
I trust we may not attract their attention . 
But I see nowhere any place where we could take refuge , should they wish to injure us . 
I know not if any harm may come to me , but not from fear shall I fail to sally out against them . 
And if any one assails me , I shall not fail to joust with him . 
Yet , I am so sore and weary that it is no wonder if I grieve . 
Now to meet them I must go , and do you stay quiet here . 
Take care that no one see you , until they shall have left you far behind . 
Behold now Guivret , with lance outstretched , who espied him from afar . 
They did not recognise each other , for the moon had gone behind the shadow of a dark cloud . 
Erec was weak and exhausted , and his antagonist was quite recovered from his wounds and blows . 
Now Erec will be far from wise if he does not promptly make himself known . 
He steps out from the hedge . 
And Guivret spurs toward him without speaking to him at all , nor does Erec utter a word to him he thought he could do more than he could . 
Whoever tries to run farther than he is able must perforce give up or take a rest . 
They clash against each other but the fight was unequal , for one was weak and the other strong . 
Guivret strikes him with such force that he carries him down to earth from his horse's back . 
Enide , who was in hiding , when she sees her lord on the ground , expects to be killed and badly used . 
Springing forth from the hedge , she runs to help her lord . 
If she grieved before , now her anguish is greater . 
If thou hadst been alone and helpless , thou wouldst have rued this attack , provided my lord had been in health . 
Now be generous and courteous , and kindly let cease this battle which thou hast begun . 
For thy reputation would be no better for having killed or captured a knight who has not the strength to rise , as thou canst see . 
Have no fear whatsoever of me or of my company . 
But tell me now without concealment what is the name of your lord for only advantage will you get from telling me . 
Whoever he be , tell me his name then he shall go safe and unmolested . 
Neither he nor you have aught to fear , for you are both in safe hands . 
Guivret , in his delight , dismounts and goes to fall at Erec's feet , where he was lying on the ground . 
My lord , he says , I was going to seek for you , and was on my way to Limors , where I expected to find you dead . 
And I was coming urgently to aid and deliver her . 
Be sure that had I not loved you dearly I should never have taken this upon myself . 
I am Guivret , your friend but if I have done you any hurt through my failure to recognise you , you surely ought to pardon me . 
At this Erec sat up , for he could do no more , and said Rise up , my friend . 
Be absolved of the harm you have done me , since you did not recognise me . 
Then Guivret said , Sire , I have a castle here close by , which is well placed in a healthful site . 
For your comfort and benefit I wish to take you there to morrow and have your wounds cared for . 
I have two charming and sprightly sisters who are skilful in the care of wounds they will soon completely cure you . 
To night we shall let our company lodge here in the fields until morning for I think a little rest to night will do you much good . 
My advice is that we spend the night here . 
Erec replies I am in favour of doing so . 
So there they stayed and spent the night . 
They were not reluctant to prepare a lodging place , but they found few accommodations , for the company was quite numerous . 
They lodge as best they may among the bushes Guivret had his tent set up , and ordered tinder to be kindled , that they might have light and cheer . 
He has tapers taken out from the boxes , and they light them within the tent . 
Now Enide no longer grieves , for all has turned out well . 
She strips her lord of his arms and clothes , and having washed his wounds , she dried them and bound them up again for she would let no one else touch him . 
Now Erec knows no further reason to reproach her , for he has tried her well and found that she bears great love to him . 
And Guivret , who treats them kindly , had a high , long bed constructed of quilted coverlids , laid upon grass and reed , which they found in abundance . 
There they laid Erec and covered him up . 
Then Guivret opened a box and took out two patties . 
Friend , says he , now try a little of these cold patties , and drink some wine mixed with water . 
I have as much as six barrels of it , but undiluted it is not good for you for you are injured and covered with wounds . 
Fair sweet friend , now try to eat for it will do you good . 
And my lady will eat some too your wife who has been to day in sore distress on your account . 
But you have received full satisfaction for all that , and have escaped . 
So eat now , and I will eat too , fair friend . 
Then Guivret sat down by Erec's side , and so did Enide who was much pleased by all that Guivret did . 
Both of them urge him to eat , giving him wine mixed with water' for unmixed it is too strong and heating . 
Erec ate as a sick man eats , and drank a little all he dared . 
But he rested comfortably and slept all night for on his account no noise or disturbance was made . 
In the early morning they awoke , and prepared again to mount and ride . 
Erec was so devoted to his own horse that he would ride no other . 
They gave to Enide a mule , for she had lost her palfrey . 
But she was not concerned to judge by her looks , she gave the matter no thought . 
She had a good mule with an easy gait that bore her very comfortably . 
And it gave her great satisfaction that Erec was not cast down , but rather assured them that he would recover completely . 
Before the third hour they reached Penevric , a strong castle , well and handsomely situated . 
There dwelt the two sisters of Guivret for the place was agreeable enough . 
Guivret escorted Erec to a delightful , airy room in a remote part of the castle . 
His sisters , at his request , exerted themselves to cure Erec and Erec placed himself in their hands , for they inspired him with perfect confidence . 
First , they removed the dead flesh , then applied plaster and lint , devoting to his care all their skill , like women who knew their business well . 
Again and again they washed his wounds and applied the plaster . 
Four times or more each day they made him eat and drink , allowing him , however , no garlic or pepper . 
But whoever might go in or out Enide was always with him , being more than any one else concerned . 
Guivret often came in to ask and inquire if he wanted anything . 
He was well kept and well served , and everything that he wished was willingly done . 
But the damsels cheerfully and gladly showed such devotion in caring for him that by the end of a fortnight he felt no hurt or pain . 
Then , to bring his colour back , they began to give him baths . 
There was no need to instruct the damsels , for they understood the treatment well . 
When he was able to walk about . 
Guivret had two loose gowns made of two different kinds of silk , one trimmed with ermine , the other with vair . 
One was of a dark purple colour , and the other striped , sent to him as a present by a cousin of his from Scotland . 
Enide had the purple gown trimmed with ermine , which was very precious , while Erec had the striped stuff with the fur , which was no less valuable . 
Now Erec was strong and well , cured and recovered . 
They have had so much pain and sorrow , he for her , and she for him , that now they have their satisfaction . 
Each vies in seeking to please the other . 
Of their further sport I must not speak . 
Now they have so welded their love and forgotten their grief that they scarcely remember it any more . 
When he came to take leave , Erec said Sire , I do not wish to delay longer my departure for my own land . 
Order everything to be prepared and collected , in order that I may have all I need . 
I shall wish to start to morrow morning , as soon as it is day . 
I have stayed so long with you that I feel strong and vigorous . 
God grant , if it please Him , that I may live to meet you again somewhere , when I may be able in my turn to serve and honour you . 
Unless I am captured or detained , I do not expect to tarry anywhere until I reach the court of King Arthur , whom I hope to find either at Robais or Carduel . 
Erec accedes to this advice , and says that , in accordance with his plans , he wishes the journey to be begun . 
That night they make preparations for their journey , not wishing to delay there longer . 
They all make ready and prepare . 
In the early morning , when they awake , the saddles are placed upon the steeds . 
When their preparations for departure were made , they took their leave of the damsels . 
Erec , who was very courteous , in taking leave of them , thanks them for his health and life , and pledges to them his service . 
Guivret urges them to mount at once without delay . 
Enide thinks the time will never come for them to mount . 
They bring around to the block for her a good tempered palfrey , a soft stepper , handsome and well shaped . 
The palfrey was of fine appearance and a good mount it was no less valuable than her own which had stayed behind at Limors . 
Between the two colours there was a line , greener than a grape vine leaf , which separated the white from the black . 
Of the bridle , breast strap , and saddle I can surely say that the workmanship was rich and handsome . 
All the breast strap and bridle was of gold set with emeralds . 
The saddle was decorated in another style , covered with a precious purple cloth . 
Cunning was the workmanship and well carved , all decorated with fine gold . 
A skilful craftsman , who made it spent more than seven years in carving it , without touching any other piece of work . 
I do not know whether he sold it but he ought to have obtained a good price for it . 
Now that Enide was presented with this palfrey , she was well compensated for the loss of her own . 
The palfrey , thus richly apparelled , was given to her and she mounted it gladly then the gentlemen and squires quickly mounted too . 
For their pleasure and sport Guivret caused to be taken with them rich falcons , both young and moulted , many a tercel and sparrow hawk , and many a setter and greyhound . 
And all around , beneath this wall , ran a very deep stream , roaring rushing like a storm . 
Erec stops to look at it , and ask and find out if any one could truly tell him who was the lord of this town . 
Since you have brought me here , tell me , if you know . 
Sire , he says , I know very well , and will tell you the truth about it . 
The name of the town is Brandigant , and it is so strong and fine that it fears neither king nor emperor . 
It fears no assault on any side , nor could anything reduce it to starvation . 
King Evrain had it fortified , and he has possessed it all his days unmolested , and will possess it all his life . 
But not because he feared any one did he thus fortify it but the town is more pleasing so . 
God ! said Erec , what great wealth ! Let us go and see the fortress , and we shall take lodging in the town , for I wish to stop here . 
Sire , said the other in great distress , were it not to disappoint you , we should not stop here . 
In the town there is a dangerous passage . 
Dangerous ? says Erec do you know about it ? Whatever it be , tell us about it for very gladly would I know . 
Sire , says he , I should fear that you might suffer some harm there . 
It is time to halt for the night , and so I trust that it will not displease you for if any honour comes to us here you ought to be very glad . 
I appeal to you conceding the adventure that you tell me just the name of it , and I'll not insist upon the rest . 
he says , I cannot be silent and refuse the information you desire . 
The name is very fair to say , but the execution is very hard for no one can come from it alive . 
The adventure , upon my word , is called the Joy of the Court . 
God ! there can be nothing but good in joy , says Erec I go to seek it . 
Don't go now and discourage me about this or anything else , fair gentle friend but let us have our lodgings taken , for great good may come to us of this . 
Nothing could restrain me from going to seek the Joy . 
Sire , says he , God grant your prayer , that you may find joy and return without mishap . 
I clearly see that we must go in . 
Since otherwise it may not be , let us go in . 
Marvelling much , they stare at him the whole town was stirred and moved , as they take counsel and discuss about him . 
One to another whispers low Alas ! This knight , who is passing , is on his way to the Joy of the Court . 
Tomorrow thy death is come to morrow thou shalt surely die if God does not guard and defend thee . 
Erec hears and understands that they are speaking of him through the lower town more than two thousand pitied him but nothing causes him dismay . 
He passes on without delay , bowing gaily to men and women alike . 
And they all salute him too and most of them swear with anxiety , fearing more than he does himself , for his shame and for his hurt . 
King Evrain comes down the street to meet them , and saluting them he cries Welcome to this company , both to the master and all his suite . 
Welcome , gentlemen ! Dismount . 
They dismounted , and there were plenty to receive and take their horses . 
Nor was King Evrain backward when he saw Enide coming but he straightway saluted her and ran to help her to dismount . 
He ordered a chamber to be scented with incense , myrrh , and aloes . 
When they entered , they all complimented King Evrain on its fine appearance . 
Hand in hand they enter the room , the King escorting them and taking great pleasure in them . 
When the time and hour arrived , the King orders supper to be prepared but I do not wish to stop over that if I can find some more direct way . 
That night they had in abundance all that heart desires and craves birds , venison , and fruit , and wines of different sorts . 
But better than all is a happy cheer ! For of all dishes the sweetest is a joyful countenance and a happy face . 
Sire says he , it is time now to tell you what I intend , and why I have come here . 
Too long I have refrained from speech , and now can no longer conceal my object . 
I ask you for the Joy' of the Court , for I covet nothing else so much . 
Grant it to me , whatever it be , if you are in control of it . 
In truth , fair friend . 
the King replies , I hear you speak great nonsense . 
This is a very parlous thing , which has caused sorrow to many a worthy man you yourself will eventually be killed and undone if you will not heed my counsel . 
But if you were willing to take my word , I should advise you to desist from soliciting so grievous a thing in which you would never succeed . 
Speak of it no more ! Hold your peace ! It would be imprudent on your part not to follow my advice . 
I am not at all surprised that you desire honour and fame but if I should see you harmed or injured in your body I should be distressed at heart . 
And know well that I have seen many a man ruined who solicited this joy . 
They were never any the better for it , but rather did they all die and perish . 
Before to morrow's evening come you may expect a like reward . 
If you wish to strive for the Joy , you shall do so , though it grieve me sore . 
It is something from which you are free to retreat and draw back if you wish to work your welfare . 
Therefore I tell you , for I should commit treachery and do you wrong were I not to tell you all the truth . 
Erec hears him and admits that the King with reason counsels him . 
I wish to undertake his boon , however it may fall out with me . 
The die is cast , for I shall never draw back from anything I have undertaken without exerting all my strength before I quit the field . 
I know that well , the King replied you are acting against my will . 
You shall have the Joy which you desire . 
But I am in great despair for I greatly fear you will be undone . 
But now be assured that you shall have what you desire . 
All that night they talked of it , until the beds were prepared and they went to rest . 
In the morning , when it was daylight , Erec , who was on the watch , saw the clear dawn and the sun , and quickly rising , clothed himself . 
But nevertheless he equips himself , for no one can make him change his mind . 
For his equipment the King sent him , when he arose , arms which he put to good use . 
Erec did not refuse them , for his own were worn and impaired and in bad state . 
He gladly accepted the arms and had himself equipped with them in the hall . 
When he was armed , he descends the steps and finds his horse saddled and the King who had mounted . 
Every one in the castle and in the houses of the town hastened to mount . 
In all the town there remained neither man nor woman , erect or deformed , great or small , weak or strong , who is able to go and does not do so . 
And there is not one but says God curse this joy ! which has been the death of so many gentlemen . 
To day it will wreak the worst woe that it has ever yet wrought . 
He hears clearly the words and what they said but notwithstanding , he passes on without lowering his head , and without the bearing of a craven . 
Whoever may speak , he longs to see and know and understand why they are all in such distress , anxiety , and woe . 
The King leads him without the town into a garden that stood near by and all the people follow after , praying that from this trial God may grant him a happy issue . 
But it is not meet that I should pass on , from weariness and exhaustion of tongue , without telling you the whole truth about the garden , according as the story runs . 
Through a narrow entrance the people entered King Evrain and all the rest . 
But he saw a wondrous thing , which might arouse fear in the bravest warrior of all whom we know , be it Thiebaut the Esclavon , or Ospinel , or Fernagu . 
For before them , on sharpened stakes , there stood bright and shining helmets , and each one had beneath the rim a man's head . 
But at the end there stood a stake where as yet there was nothing but a horn . 
Take care lest thy head be set up there for such is the purpose of the stake . 
I had warned you well of that before you came here . 
I do not expect that you will escape hence , but that you will be killed and rent apart . 
For this much we know , that the stake awaits your head . 
I will tell you nothing of the horn but never has any one been able to blow it . 
Now there is no more of this matter . 
Have your men withdraw for the Joy' will soon arrive , and will make you sorry , I suspect . 
And he who well knew her heart , said to her Fair sister dear , gentle , loyal , and prudent lady , I am acquainted with your thoughts . 
Gentle lady , as yet you know not what this is to be no more do I. You are troubled without cause . 
But know this truly if there were in me only so much courage as your love inspires , truly I should not fear to face any man alive . 
But I am foolish to vaunt myself yet I say it not from any pride , but because I wish to comfort you . 
Then he kisses her and commends her to God , and she him . 
But she is much chagrined that she cannot follow and escort him , until she may learn and see what this adventure is to be , and how he will conduct himself . 
But since she must stay behind and cannot follow him , she remains sorrowful and grieving . 
Erec draws near to her , wishing to see her more closely , and the onlookers go and sit down under the trees in the orchard . 
Before Erec caught sight of him , he cried out Vassal , vassal ! You are mad , upon my life , thus to approach my damsel . 
I should say you are not worthy to draw near her . 
You will pay dearly for your presumption , by my head ! Stand back ! And Erec stops and looks at him , and the other , too , stood still . 
Neither made advance until Erec had replied all that he wished to say to him . 
Friend , he says , one can speak folly as well as good sense . 
Threaten as much as you please , and I will keep silence for in threatening there is no sense . 
Do you know why ? A man sometimes thinks he has won the game who afterward loses it . 
So he is manifestly a fool who is too presumptuous and who threatens too much . 
If there are some who flee there are plenty who chase , but I do not fear you so much that I am going to run away yet . 
I am ready to make such defence , if there is any who wishes to offer me battle , that he will have to do his uttermost , or otherwise he cannot escape . 
Nay , quoth he , so help me God ! know that you shall have the battle , for I defy and challenge you . 
And you may know , upon my word , that then the reins were not held in . 
The lances they had were not light , but were big and square nor were they planed smooth , but were rough and strong . 
Upon the shields with mighty strength they smote each other with their sharp weapons , so that a fathom of each lance passes through the gleaming shields . 
One against the other rides , and so fiercely they smite each other that both lances break and the horses fall beneath them . 
But they , being seated on their steeds , sustain no harm so they quickly rise , for they were strong and lithe . 
No greater efforts can be made than those they make in striving and toiling to injure and wound each other . 
Both fiercely smite with the gilded pommel and the cutting edge . 
They are very sore and very tired yet they do not desist , but rather only strive the more . 
They can scarcely harm each other now yet , they do not desist at all from exercising all their strength . 
Because their eyes are so blinded that they completely lose their sight , they let their shields fall to the ground , and seize each other angrily . 
Each pulls and drags the other , so that they fall upon their knees . 
Thus , long they fight until the hour of noon is past , and the big knight is so exhausted that his breath quite fails him . 
Erec has him at his mercy , and pulls and drags so that he breaks all the lacing of his helmet , and forces him over at his feet . 
He falls over upon his face against Erec's breast , and has not strength to rise again . 
Though it distresses him , he has to say and own I cannot deny it , you have beaten me but much it goes against my will . 
Concerning that I will know all what is thy name and what the Joy for I am very anxious to hear the truth from beginning to end of it . 
Sire , says he , fearlessly I will tell you all you wish to know . 
Then thou oughtest to know me well , if thou weft ever with me at the court of my father , the King . 
Then , upon my faith , it has turned out well . 
Now hear who has detained me so long in this garden . 
I will tell the truth in accordance with your injunction , whatever it may cost me . 
That damsel who yonder sits , loved me from childhood and I loved her . 
It pleased us both , and our love grew and increased , until she asked a boon of me , but did not tell me what it was . 
Who would deny his mistress aught ? There is no lover but would surely do all his sweet heart's pleasure without default or guile , whenever he can in any way . 
I agreed to her desire but when I had agreed , she would have it , too , that I should swear . 
I would have done more than that for her , but she took me at my word . 
I made her a promise , without knowing what . 
Time passed until I was made a knight . 
King Evrain , whose nephew I am , dubbed me a knight in the presence of many honourable men in this very garden where we are . 
It was right that I should remain , for rather than break my word , I should never have pledged it . 
Thus my lady thought to detain me here for a long stay she did not think that there would ever enter this garden any vassal who could conquer me . 
In this way she intended to keep me absolutely shut up with her all the days of my life . 
And I should have committed an offence if I had had resort to guile and not defeated all those against whom I could prevail such escape would have been a shame . 
And I dare to assure you that I have no friend so dear that I would have feigned at all in fighting with him . 
Never did I weary of arms , nor did I ever refuse to fight . 
You have surely seen the helmets of those whom I have defeated and put to death but the guilt of it is not mine , when one considers it aright . 
I could not help myself , unless I were willing to be false and recreant and disloyal . 
Now I have told you the truth , and be assured that it is no small honour which you have gained . 
They have awaited it so long that now it will be granted them by you who have won it by your fight . 
You have defeated and bewitched my prowess and my chivalry . 
Now it is right that I tell you my name , if you would know it . 
Sire , you knew the truth concerning all that you asked me . 
But I must still tell you that there is in this garden a horn which I doubt not you have seen . 
I cannot issue forth from here until you have blown the horn but then you will have released me , and then the Joy will begin . 
Whoever shall hear and give it heed no hindrance will detain him , when he shall hear the sound of the horn , from coming straight way to the court . 
Rise up , sire ! Go quickly now ! Go take the horn right joyfully for you have no further cause to wait so do that which you must do . 
Now Erec rose , and the other rises with him , and both approach the horn . 
Erec takes it and blows it , putting into it all his strength , so that the sound of it reaches far . 
Greatly did Enide rejoice when she heard the note , and Guivret was greatly delighted too . 
The King is glad , and so are his people there is not one who is not well suited and pleased at this . 
No one ceases or leaves off from making merry and from song . 
The news spreads through the country that thus the affair has turned out . 
Then there was no holding back from coming to the court . 
All the people hasten thither in confusion , some on foot and some on horse , without waiting for each other . 
but the lay is not well known . 
Erec was well sated with joy and well served to his heart's desire but she who sat on the silver couch was not a bit pleased . 
The joy which she saw was not at all to her taste . 
But many people have to keep still and look on at what gives them pain . 
However disappointing it may be , no one can prevent his going away , for the hour and the time have come . 
Therefore the tears ran down her face from her eyes . 
Much more than I can say was she grieving and distressed nevertheless she sat up straight . 
But she does not care so much for any of those who try to comfort her that she ceases her moan . 
Enide salutes her kindly but for a while the other could not reply a word , being prevented by the sighs and sobs which torment and distress her . 
The other cannot help smiling , without hearing more , for she is so delighted that she forgets her sorrow . 
Her heart leaps with joy which she cannot conceal . 
She runs and embraces Enide , saying I am your cousin ! This is the very truth , and you are my father's niece for he and your father are brothers . 
But I suspect that you do not know and have never heard how I came into this country . 
The Count , your uncle , was at war , and to him there came to fight for pay knights of many lands . 
Thus , fair cousin , it came about , that with these hireling knights there came one who was the nephew of the king of Brandigan . 
He was with my father almost a year . 
That was , I think , twelve years ago , and I was still but a little child . 
He was very handsome and attractive . 
There we had an understanding between us that pleased us both . 
He could not wait , and I was longing to come hither with him so we both came away , and no one knew of it but ourselves . 
In those days you and I were both young and little girls . 
I have told you the truth so now tell me in turn , as I have told you , all about your lover , and by what adventure he won you . 
Fair cousin , he married me in such a way that my father knew all about it , and my mother was greatly pleased . 
All our relatives knew it and rejoiced over it , as they should do . 
Even the Count was glad . 
He loves me much , and I love him more , and our love cannot be greater . 
Never yet could I withhold my love from him , nor should I do so . 
And if it please you , I will tell you without lying how I came to be thus raised up for never will I be slow to tell the story . 
Then she told and related to her how Erec came to Lalut for she had no desire to conceal it . 
She told her the adventure word for word , without omission . 
But I pass over it now , because he who tells a story twice makes his tale now tiresome . 
While they were thus conversing , one lady slipped away alone , who sent and told it all to the gentlemen , in order to increase and heighten their pleasure too . 
All those who heard it rejoiced at this news . 
And when Mabonagrain knew it he was delighted for his sweetheart because now she was comforted . 
And she who bore them quickly the news made them all happy in a short space . 
Even the King was glad for it although he was very happy before , yet now he is still happier , and shows Erec great honour . 
Enide leads away her fair cousin , fairer than Helen , more graceful and charming . 
Mabonagrain makes much of Enide , and she of him . 
Erec and Guivret , for their part , rejoice over the damsel as they all kiss and embrace each other . 
They propose to return to the castle , for they have stayed too long in the garden . 
They are all prepared to go out so they sally forth joyfully , kissing each other on the way . 
Great was the gathering and the press . 
Every one , high and low , rich and poor , strives to see Erec . 
Breton zithers , harps , and viols sound , fiddles , psalteries , and other stringed instruments , and all kinds of music that one could name or mention . 
But I wish to conclude the matter briefly without too long delay . 
The King honours him to the extent of his power , as do all the others ungrudgingly . 
There is no one who does not gladly offer to do his service . 
Three whole days the Joy lasted , before Erec could get away . 
On the fourth he would no longer tarry for any reason they could urge . 
There was a great crowd to accompany him and a very great press when it came to taking leave . 
If he had wished to reply to each one , he would not have been able in half a day to return the salutations individually . 
The nobles he salutes and embraces the others he commends to God in a word , and salutes them . 
Enide , for her part , is not silent when she takes leave of the nobles . 
She salutes them all by name , and they in turn do the like . 
Before she goes , she kisses her cousin very tenderly and embraces her . 
Then they go and the Joy is over . 
They go off and the others return . 
Erec and Guivret do not tarry , but keep joyfully on their way , until they came in nine days to Robais , where they were told the King was . 
The day before he had been bled privately in his apartments with him he had only five hundred nobles of his household . 
Never before at any time was the King found so alone , and he was much distressed that he had no more numerous suite at his court . 
At that time a messenger comes running , whom they had sent ahead to apprise the King of their approach . 
This man came in before the assembly , found the King and all his people , and saluting him correctly , said I am a messenger of Erec and of Guivret the Little . 
Then he told him how they were coming to see him at his court . 
The King replies Let them be welcome , as valiant and gallant gentlemen ! Nowhere do I know of any better than they two . 
By their presence my court will be much enhanced . 
Then he sent for the Queen and told her the news . 
The others have their horses saddled to go and meet the gentlemen . 
In such haste are they to mount that they did not put on their spurs . 
I ought to state briefly that the crowd of common people , including squires , cooks , and butlers , had already entered the town to prepare for the lodgings . 
The main party came after , and had already drawn so near that they had entered the town . 
Now the two parties have met each other , and salute and kiss each other . 
They come to the lodgings and make themselves comfortable , removing their hose and making their toilet by donning their rich robes . 
When they were completely decked out , they took their way to the court . 
They come to court , where the King sees them , and the Queen , who is beside herself with impatience to see Erec and Enide . 
The King makes them take seats beside him , kisses Erec and Guivret about Enide's neck he throws his arms and kisses her repeatedly , in his great joy . 
Nor is the Queen slow in embracing Erec and Enide . 
One might well rejoice to see her now so full of joy . 
Every one enters with spirit into the merry making . 
Then the King causes silence to be made , and appeals to Erec and asks news of his adventures . 
When the noise had ceased , Erec began his story , telling him of his adventures , without forgetting any detail . 
Many a danger have you gone through , fair gentle friend , said the King to him now tarry in this country at my court , as you are wont to do . 
Sire , since you wish it , I shall remain very gladly three or four years entire . 
But ask Guivret to remain here too a request in which I would fain join . 
The King prays him to remain , and he consents to stay . 
So they both stay the King kept them with him , and held them dear and honoured them . 
Erec stayed at court , together with Guivret and Enide , until the death of his father , the king , who was an old man and full of years . 
This grieved Erec much more than he showed before the people . 
But sorrow is not seemly in a king , nor does it become a king to mourn . 
To the poor clerks and priors he gave , as was right , black copes and warm linings to wear beneath . 
For God's sake he did great good to all to those who were in need he distributed more than a barrel of small coins . 
Erec thanked the King , and said that that was a noble gift . 
At Christmas the King assembles all his nobles , summoning them individually and commanding them to come to Nantes . 
He summoned them all , and none stayed behind . 
Erec , too , sent word to many of his followers , and summoned them to come thither but more came than he had bidden , to serve him and do him honour . 
Her father was sent for first of all , and he came to court in handsome style , like a great lord and a chatelain . 
There was no great crowd of chaplains or of silly , gaping yokels , but of excellent knights and of people well equipped . 
Each day they made a long day's journey , and rode on each day with great joy and great display , until on Christmas eve they came to the city of Nantes . 
They made no halt until they entered the great hall where the King and his courtiers were . 
Erec and Enide see them , and you may know how glad they were . 
To meet them they quickly make their way , and salute and embrace them , speaking to them tenderly and showing their delight as they should . 
Before he knew anything about me , he lodged me well and handsomely . 
All that he had he made over to me , and even his daughter he bestowed upon me , without the advice or counsel of any one . 
Is she her mother ? Yes , truly , sire . 
Fair is Enide and fair she should be in all reason and by right for her mother is a very handsome lady , and her father is a goodly knight . 
Nor does she in aught belie them for she descends and inherits directly from them both in many respects . 
Then the King ceases and sits down , bidding them be seated too . 
They do not disobey his command , but straightway take seats . 
Now is Enide filled with joy when she sees her father and mother , for a very long time had passed since she had seen them . 
But I wish to say no more of that , for my heart draws me toward the court which was now assembled in force . 
From many a different country there were counts and dukes and kings , Normans , Bretons . 
Now hear , if you will , the great joy and grandeur , the display and the wealth , that was exhibited at the court . 
Before the hour of nones had sounded , King Arthur dubbed four hundred knights or more all sons of counts and of kings . 
To each one he gave three horses and two pairs of suits , in order that his court may make a better showing . 
Alexander , who conquered so much that he subdued the whole world , and who was so lavish and rich , compared with him was poor and mean . 
The raiment was taken from the chests and spread about freely through the halls one could take what he would , without restraint . 
for since the time of Merlin until that day sterlings had currency throughout Britain . 
There all helped themselves , each one carrying away that night all that he wanted to his lodging place . 
At nine o'clock on Christmas day , all came together again at court . 
The great joy that is drawing near for him had completely filched Erec's heart away . 
The tongue and the mouth of no man , however skilful , could describe the third , or the fourth , or the fifth part of the display which marked his coronation . 
So it is a mad enterprise I undertake in wishing to attempt to describe it . 
But since I must make the effort , come what may , I shall not fail to relate a part of it , as best I may . 
The King had two thrones of white ivory , well constructed and new , of one pattern and style . 
He who made them beyond a doubt was a very skilled and cunning craftsman . 
There was no part of wood , but all of gold and fine ivory . 
Well were they carved with great skill , for the two corresponding sides of each bore the representation of a leopard , and the other two a dragon's shape . 
A knight named Bruiant of the Isles had made a gift and present of them to King Arthur and the Queen . 
King Arthur sat upon the one , and upon the other he made Erec sit , who was robed in watered silk . 
who devoted himself to the description of it . 
Macrobius instructs me how to describe , according as I have found it in the book , the workmanship and the figures of the cloth . 
Four fairies had made it with great skill and mastery . 
Such was the work of the first fairy . 
This piece of work was good and fine for upon it were portrayed all the instruments and all the pastimes . 
The fourth , who next performed her task , executed a most excellent work for the best of the arts she there portrayed . 
She undertook astronomy , which accomplishes so many marvels and draws inspiration from the stars , the moon , and the sun . 
Nowhere else does it seek counsel concerning aught which it has to do . 
They give it good and sure advice . 
Concerning whatever inquiry it make of them , whether in the past or in the future , they give it information without falsehood and without deception . 
This work was portrayed on the stuff of which Erec's robe was made , all worked and woven with thread of gold . 
These beasts live in India and they are called barbiolets . 
They eat nothing but spices , cinnamon , and fresh cloves . 
As yet Enide had not come to the palace . 
When the King sees that she delays , he bids Gawain go quickly to bring her and the Queen . 
Gawain hastens and was not slow , and with him King Cadoalant and the generous King of Galloway . 
Guivret the Little accompanies them , followed by Yder the son of Nut . 
So many of the other nobles ran thither to escort the two ladies that they would have sufficed to overcome a host for there were more than a thousand of them . 
The Queen had made her best effort to adorn Enide . 
When they came to the palace , King Arthur came quickly toward them , and courteously seated Enide beside Erec for he wished to do her great honour . 
Now he orders to be brought forth from his treasure two massive crowns of fine gold . 
As soon as he had spoken and given the command , without delay the crowns were brought before him , all sparkling with carbuncles , of which there were four in each . 
The light of the moon is nothing compared with the light which the least of the carbuncles could shed . 
He had one of them held by two damsels , and the other by two gentlemen . 
Then he bade the bishops and priors and the abbots of the Church step forward and anoint the new King , as the Christian practice is . 
Now all the prelates , young and old , came forward for at the court there were a great number of bishops and abbots . 
King Arthur had a sceptre brought which was very fine . 
Listen to the description of the sceptre , which was clearer than a pane of glass , all of one solid emerald , fully as large as your fist . 
Then he crowned Enide in turn . 
Now the bells ring for Mass , and they go to the main church to hear the Mass and service they go to pray at the cathedral . 
You would have seen weeping with joy the father of Queen Enide and her mother , Carsenefide . 
In truth this was her mother's name , and her father's name was Liconal . 
Very happy were they both . 
When they came to the cathedral , the procession came out from the church with relics and treasures to meet them . 
Never were seen so many kings , counts , dukes , and nobles together at a Mass , and the press was so great and thick that the church was completely filled . 
No low born man could enter there , but only ladies and knights . 
Outside the door of the church a great number still remained , so many were there come together who could not get inside the church . 
When they had heard all the Mass they returned to the palace . 
At each table there was in truth a king or a duke or a count and full a hundred knights were seated at each table . 
A thousand knights served the bread , and a thousand served the wine , and a thousand the meat all of them dressed in fresh fur robes of ermine . 
All are served with divers dishes . 
They had enough , without wanting more joyfully and liberally they were served to their heart's desire . 
He rewarded them liberally with horses , arms and silver , cloths and brocades of many kinds , because of his generosity , and because of Erec whom he loved so much . 
Here the story ends at last . 
ENDNOTES NOTE Endnotes supplied by Prof . 
Foerster are indicated by all other endnotes are supplied by W. W. Comfort . 
, tells the same story as Erec et Enide with some variations . 
, where it may be consulted with the greatest confidence . 
The relation of the Welsh prose to the French poem is a moot point . 
E. Philipot in Romania , XXV . 
G. Paris in Romania , XIX . 
We frequently read in the romances of a hunt at Easter . 
As here , so in Fergus , p . 
, the knights hunt a white stag , which Perceval finally slays , but there is no mention of the ceremony of the bestowal of a kiss . 
Chretien nowhere gives any description of the nature of the Round Table . 
With him , it is an institution . 
Layamon in Brut and Wace in Le Roman de Brut are more specific in their accounts of this remarkable piece of furniture . 
From their descriptions , and from other sources in Welsh and Irish literature , it is reasonable to suppose that the Round Table had a place in primitive Celtic folk lore . 
L. F. Mott , The Round Table in Pub . 
of the Modern Language Association of America , XX . 
A. C. L. Brown , The Round Table before Wace in Harvard Studies and Notes in Philology and Literature , vii . 
Miss J. L Weston , A Hitherto Unconsidered Aspect of the Round Table in Melanges de philologie romane offerts a M. Wilmotte , ii . 
There exists a romance devoted to Yder , of which G. Paris printed a resume in Hist . 
de la France , XXX . 
, and which has been recently edited by Heinrich Gelzer Der altfranzosische Yderroman . 
There are apparently three different knight of this name in the old French romances . 
is usually to be translated as town or strong place within fortifications . 
Only where it plainly refers to a detached building will the word castle be used . 
A tercel is a species of falcon , of which the male bird is one third smaller than the female . 
was a low order of vassal , but a freeman . 
The vavasors are spoken of with respect in the old French romances , as being of honourable character , though not of high birth . 
We have fragments of poems on Tristan by the Anglo Norman poets Beroul and Thomas , who were contemporaries of Chretien . 
Foerster's hypothesis that the lost Tristan of Chretien antedated Erec is doubtless correct . 
For the contrary opinion of Gaston Paris see Journal des Savants , p . 
See Guest , The Mabinogion . 
The hauberk was a long shirt of mail reaching to the knees , worn by knights in combat . 
The body of the knight was thus well protected against blow of sword or lance . 
This passage seems to imply that charms and enchantments were sometimes used when a knight was armed . 
The loges , so often mentioned in old French romances , were either window balconies or architectural points of vantage commanding some pleasing prospect . 
The conventional translation in the old English romances is bower . 
, but later identified with St . 
Samson's Isle , one of the Scilly Isles . 
For such figurative expressions used to complement the negative , cf . 
The only mention by Chretien of this son of Arthur , whose role is absolutely insignificant in the Arthurian romances . 
, which tells how a certain King Mangount of Moraine sent a magic drinking cup to Arthur . 
No one could drink of this cup without spilling the contents if he were a cuckold . 
Drinking from this cup was , then , one of the many current tests of chastity . 
which he delights in trying on his knights as a test of their ladies' chastity . 
For bibliography see T. P. Cross , Notes on the Chastity Testing Horns and Mantle in Modern Philology , x . 
A unique instance of such a division of the material in Chretien's poems . 
Outre Gales Estre Gales Extra Galliam . 
Such fanciful descriptions of men and lands are common in the French epic poems , where they are usually applied to the Saracens . 
Comfort , The Saracens in Christian Poetry in The Dublin Review , July J. Malsch , Die Charakteristik der Volker im altfranzosischen nationalen Epos . 
With what seems to us mistaken taste , Chretien frequently thus delays mentioning the name of his leading charecters . 
The father and mother of Enide remain anonymous until the end of this poem . 
The reader will remark other instances of this peculiarity in Yvain and Lancelot . 
The maid Brangien was substituted for Iseut , the bride , upon the first night after her marriage with Mark . 
Similar traditions are associated with the marriage of Arthur and Guinevere , and of Pepin and Berte aus grans pies , the parents of Charlemagne . 
Adenet le Roi toward the end of the th century is the author of the most artistic treatments of Berte's history . 
W. W. Comfort , Adenet le Roi The End of a Literary Era in The Quarterly Review , April . 
suggestion to replace the word lion which stands in all the MSS . 
Solomon's name has always been syonymous with wisdom , and Alexander's generosity was proverbial in the Middle Ages . 
Paul Meyer , Alexandre le Grand dans la litterature francaise du moyen age , vols . 
, and Paget Toynbee , Dante Studies and Researches , p . 
Of Arthur's several nephews , Gawain is represented by Chretien as peerless in respect of courage and courtesy . 
In the English romances his character steadily deteriorates . 
This sentence contains the motive for all the action in the sequel . 
The same situation is threatened in Yvain , but there Gawain rescues the hero from the lethargy , ignoble in the eyes of a feudal audience , into which he was falling . 
This brusque command , implying so sudden a change in Erec's attitude toward his wife , initiates a long series of tests of Enide's devotion , which fill the rest of the romance . 
Why did Erec treat his wife with such severity ? In the Mabinogi of Geraint the Son of Erbin , it is plain that jealousy was the hero's motive . 
Erec is simply angry with himself , but he expends his wrath upon his defenceless wife until he is reassured of her love and respect for him . 
The situation here is a common one . 
The presence of the Irish in this connection is explained by G. Paris in Romania , xx . 
Kay the Seneschal appears here for the first time in Chretien's poems with the character which he regularly ascribes to him . 
He figures prominently in Yvain and Lancelot . 
His poetic history has not yet been written . 
His role in the German romances has been touched upon by Dr . 
Friedrich Sachse , Ueber den Ritter Kei . 
No meat was eaten because it was the eve of Sunday . 
Other instances of this convention will be remarked in the text . 
There follows and excellent example of an old French lament for the dead . 
Such a wail was known in old French as a regret , a word which has lost its specific meaning in English . 
Many examples will be met of women skilled in the practice of medicine and surgery . 
On the subject , cf . 
Georg Manheimer , Etwas liber die Aerzte im alten Frankreich in Romanische Forschungen , vi . 
The reference here and in v . 
F. M. Warren in Modern Philology , iii . 
Also M. Wilmotte , L'Evolution du roman francais aux environs de . 
Scenes from classical and medieval romance were for a long time favourite subject of portrayal upon cloths and tapestries , as well as of illuminations for manuscripts . 
Various conjectures have been advanced concerning the significance of this strange adventure and its mysterious name La Joie de la cour . 
It is a quite extraneous episode , and Tennyson in his artistic use of our hero and heroine in the Idyl of Geraint and Enid did well to omit it . 
E. Philipot in Romania , xxv . 
K. Othmer , Ueber das Verhaltnis Chrestiens Erec und Enide zu dem Mabinogion des rothen Buch von Hergest G. Paris in Romania , xx . 
The following description of Erec's reception is repeated with variations at the time of Yvain's entrance in the Chastel de Pesme Avanture . 
For such conventional mediaeval descriptions of other world castles , palaces , and landscapes , cf . 
O. M. Johnston in Ztsch fur romanische Philologie , xxxii . 
Tiebaut li Esclavon , frequently mentioned in the epic poems , was a Saracen king , the first husband of Guibourne , who later married the Christian hero Guillaume d'Orange . 
Opinel was also a Saracen , mentioned in Gaufrey , p . 
Fernagu was another Saracen king , killed in a famous encounter by Roland , Otinel , p . 
For further references to these characters , see E. Langlois , Table des noms propres de toute nature compris dans les chansons de geste . 
There is a similar picket fence topped with helmets in the Las de la Mule sanz frain , v . 
For such magic horns , cf . 
A. Hertel , Verzauberte Oertlichkeiten , etc . 
In fact , nothing is known of this lai , if , indeed , it ever existed . 
For a recent definition of lai , se L. Foulet in Ztsch . 
fur romanische Philologie , xxxii . 
The sterling was the English silver penny , of which equalled Pound Sterling of silver of grains fine . 
It is early described as denarius Angliae qui vocatur sterlingus . 
For fairies and their handiwork in the Middle Ages , cf . 
D. B. Easter , The Magic Elements in the romans d'aventure and the romans bretons . 
the Swallow , and the Nightingale , will tell another story now about a youth who lived in Greece and was a member of King Arthur's line . 
But before I tell you aught of him , you shall hear of his father's life , whence he came and of what family . 
He was so bold and so ambitious that he left Greece and went to England , which was called Britain in those days , in order to win fame and renown . 
This story , which I intend to relate to you , we find written in one of the books of the library of my lord Saint Peter at Beauvais . 
From there the material was drawn of which Chretien has made this romance . 
The book is very old in which the story is told , and this adds to its authority . 
From such books which have been preserved we learn the deeds of men of old and of the times long since gone by . 
Our books have informed us that the pre eminence in chivalry and learning once belonged to Greece . 
Then chivalry passed to Rome , together with that highest learning which now has come to France . 
Chretien begins his story as we find it in the history , which tells of an emperor powerful in wealth and honour who ruled over Greece and Constantinople . 
A very noble empress , too , there was , by whom the emperor had two children . 
The name of the elder was Alexander , and the other's name was Alis . 
Alexander , too , was the father's name , and the mother's name was Tantalis . 
So Alexander , fair and brave , goes to speak with the emperor in order to ask and obtain his leave . 
Now he will tell him of his desire and what he wishes to do and undertake . 
The emperor thinks no harm will come from this request he ought rather to desire and long for his son's honour . 
Fair son , he says , I grant you your desire so tell me now what you wish me to give you . 
Now the youth has accomplished his purpose , and is greatly pleased when the boon is granted him which he so greatly desired . 
I promise you never in my life to wear armour on my face or helmet upon my head until King Arthur shall gird on my sword , if he will graciously do so . 
For from no other than from him will I accept my arms . 
Without hesitation the emperor replies Fair son , for God's sake , speak not so ! This country all belongs to you , as well as rich Constantinople . 
You ought not to think me mean , when I am ready to make you such a gift . 
I shall be ready soon to have you crowned , and to morrow you shall be a knight . 
All Greece will be in your hands , and you shall receive from your nobles , as is right , their homage and oaths of allegiance . 
Whoever refuses such an offer is not wise . 
Nor have I yet sufficient strength to bear arms . 
No one could induce me by prayer or flattery not to go to the foreign land to see his nobles and that king whose fame is so great for courtesy and prowess . 
Many men of high degree lose through sloth the great renown which they might win , were they to wander about the world . 
Repose and glory ill agree , as it seems to me for a man of wealth adds nothing to his reputation if he spends all his days at ease . 
Prowess is irksome to the ignoble man , and cowardice is a burden to the man of spirit thus the two are contrary and opposite . 
He is the slave of his wealth who spends his days in storing and increasing it . 
Fair father , so long as I have the chance , and so long as my rigour lasts , I wish to devote my effort and energy to the pursuit of fame . 
Yet , because of the promise which he made , despite the grief he feels , he must grant his request for an emperor must keep his word . 
Fair son , he says , I must not fail to do your pleasure , when I see you thus striving for honour . 
From my treasure you may have two barges full of gold and silver but take care to be generous and courteous and well behaved . 
Now the youth is very happy when his father promises him so much , and places his treasure at his disposal , and bids him urgently to give and spend generously . 
And his father explains his reason for this Fair son , he says , believe me , that generosity is the dame and queen which sheds glory upon all the other virtues . 
And the proof of this is not far to seek . 
So great is the merit of generosity that I could not tell you the half of it . 
The young man has now successfully concluded the negotiations for what he wished for his father has acceded to all his desires . 
But the empress was sorely grieved when she heard of the journey which her son was about to take . 
At his command the ships were freighted that very night with wine , meat , and biscuit . 
The ships were loaded in the port , and the next morning Alexander came to the strand in high spirits , accompanied by his companions , who were happy over the prospective voyage . 
They were escorted by the emperor and the empress in her grief . 
At the port they find the sailors in the ships drawn up beside the cliff . 
The sea was calm and smooth , the wind was light , and the weather clear . 
Soon the sail was spread and the anchor raised . 
From there they sadly gaze , as long as their eyes can follow them . 
With sorrow , indeed , they watch them go , being solicitous for the youths , that God may bring them to their haven without accident and without peril . 
All of April and part of May they spent at sea . 
Without any great danger or mishap they came to port at Southampton . 
One day , between three o'clock and vespers , they cast anchor and went ashore . 
In spite of that , they rejoice to have escaped from the sea and to have arrived where they wished to be . 
Because of their depleted state , they spend the night at Southampton in happy frame , and make inquiries whether the King is in England . 
At this news they are greatly pleased , and the next morning at daybreak the youths wake early , and prepare and equip themselves . 
And when they were ready , they left Southampton , and kept to the direct road until they reached Winchester , where the King was . 
Before six o'clock in the morning the Greeks had arrived at the court . 
And when the King sees them coming , they please him greatly , and meet with his favour . 
But before approaching the King's presence , they remove the cloaks from about their necks , lest they should be considered ill bred . 
Thus , all unmantled , they came before the King , while all the nobles present held their peace , greatly pleased at the sight of these handsome and well behaved young men . 
And the clothes they wore were all of the same stuff and cut of the same appearance and colour . 
There were twelve of them beside their lord , of whom I need tell you no more than that there was none better than he . 
With modesty and orderly mien , he was handsome and shapely as he stood uncovered before the King . 
Then he kneeled before him , and all the others , for honour's sake , did the same beside their lord . 
Alexander , with his tongue well skilled in speaking fair and wisely , salutes the King . 
For unless I receive this honour from your hand , I shall renounce all intention of being knighted . 
If you will accept my service until you are willing to dub me a knight , retain me now , oh gentle King , and my companions gathered here . 
To which at once the King replies Friend , I refuse neither you nor your companions . 
For surely you seem , and I doubt it not , to be sons of high born men . 
Whence do you come ? From Greece . 
Who is thy father ? Upon my word , sire , the emperor . 
And what is thy name , fair friend ? Alexander is the name that was given me when I received the salt and holy oil , and Christianity and baptism . 
Alexander , my dear , fair friend . 
I will keep you with me very gladly , with great pleasure and delight . 
For you have done me signal honour in thus coming to my court . 
I wish you to be honoured here , as free vassals who are wise and gentle . 
Then the Greeks rise up , joyful that the King has so kindly invited them to stay . 
Alexander did well to come for he lacks nothing that he desires , and there is no noble at the court who does not address him kindly and welcome him . 
He is not so foolish as to be puffed up , nor does he vaunt himself nor boast . 
He makes acquaintance with my lord Gawain and with the others , one by one . 
He gains the good graces of them all , but my lord Gawain grows so fond of him that he chooses him as his friend and companion . 
The Greeks took the best lodgings to be had , with a citizen of the town . 
To this end he devotes his efforts , living well in his lodgings , and giving and spending liberally , as is fitting in one so rich , and as his heart dictates . 
The entire court wonders where he got all the wealth that he bestows for on all sides he presents the valuable horses which he had brought from his own land . 
So much did Alexander do , in the performance of his service , that the King , the Queen , and the nobles bear him great affection . 
King Arthur about this time desired to cross over into Brittany . 
So he summons all his barons together to take counsel and inquire to whom he may entrust England to be kept in peace and safety until his return . 
When this man had received the land , King Arthur set out the next day accompanied by the Queen and her damsels . 
The Bretons make great rejoicing upon hearing the news in Brittany that the King and his barons are on the way . 
Into the ship in which the King sailed there entered no youth or maiden save only Alexander and Soredamors , whom the Queen brought with her . 
Now Love will make her grieve , and will avenge himself for all the pride and scorn with which she has always treated him . 
Carefully Love has aimed his dart with which he pierced her to the heart . 
Now she grows pale and trembles , and in spite of herself must succumb to Love . 
Only with great difficulty can she restrain herself from casting a glance toward Alexander but she must be on her guard against her brother , my lord Gawain . 
Dearly she pays and atones for her great pride and disdain . 
Love has heated for her a bath which heats and burns her painfully . 
At first it is grateful to her , and then it hurts one moment she likes it , and the next she will have none of it . 
My eyes , you have betrayed me now ! My heart , usually so faithful , now bears me ill will because of you . 
Now what I see distresses me . 
Distresses ? Nay , verily , rather do I like it well . 
Thus , I shall be able to baffle Love in his efforts to get control of me . 
The heart feels no pain when the eye does not see so , if I do not look at him , no harm will come to me . 
He addresses me no request or prayer , as he would do were he in love with me . 
Therefore , he has no ground for complaint , nor can I make any claim against him . 
One cannot love with the eyes alone . 
Who , then , should be blamed ? Surely myself , who have them in control . 
My eye glances at nothing unless it gives my heart delight . 
My heart ought not to have any desire which would give me pain . 
Yet its desire causes me pain . 
Pain ? Upon my faith , I must be mad , if to please my heart I wish for something which troubles me . 
If I can , I ought to banish any wish that distresses me . 
If I can ? Mad one , what have I said ? I must , indeed , have little power if I have no control over myself . 
Does Love think to set me in the same path which is wont to lead others astray ? Others he may lead astray , but not me who care not for him . 
Never shall I be his , nor ever was , and I shall never seek his friendship . 
Thus she argues with herself , one moment loving , and hating the next . 
She is in such doubt that she does not know which course she had better adopt . 
She thinks to be on the defence against Love , but defence is not what she wants . 
God ! She does not know that Alexander is thinking of her too ! Love bestows upon them equally such a share as is their due . 
He treats them very fairly and justly , for each one loves and desires the other . 
And this love would be true and right if only each one knew what was the other's wish . 
But he does not know what her desire is , and she knows not the cause of his distress . 
The Queen takes note of them and sees them often blanch and pale and heave deep sighs and tremble . 
But she knows no reason why they should do so , unless it be because of the sea where they are . 
But of the three concerned , the Queen puts all the blame upon the sea for the other two accuse the third to her , and hold it alone responsible for their guilt . 
Some one who is not at fault is often blamed for another's wrong . 
Thus , the Queen lays all the blame and guilt upon the sea , but it is unfair to put the blame upon the sea , for it is guilty of no misdeed . 
Soredamors' deep distress continued until the vessel came to port . 
As for the King , it is well known that the Bretons were greatly pleased , and served him gladly as their liege lord . 
But of King Arthur I will not longer speak in this place rather shall you hear me tell how Love distresses these two lovers whom he has attacked . 
They dare neither speak nor act in accordance with what each sees in the other which works a great hardship to them both , and their love but grows and flames the more . 
Their love waxes and grows anon but each is abashed before the other , and so much is hidden and concealed that no flame or smoke arises from the coals beneath the ashes . 
The heat is no less on this account , but rather is better sustained beneath the ashes than above . 
Of Alexander I will tell you first how he complains and vents his grief . 
I may as well hold myself a madman . 
I have engaged my thoughts in a mad emprise . 
But is it not better to keep my thoughts to myself than to be called a fool ? My wish will never then be known . 
And why should one ask for advice , who does not expect to gain his health ? He would only exert himself in vain . 
I feel my own illness to be so grievous that I shall never be healed by any medicine or draught , by any herb or root . 
For some ills there is no remedy , and mine lies so deep within that it is beyond the reach of medicine . 
Is there no help , then ? Methinks I have lied . 
When first I felt this malady , if I had dared to make mention of it . 
I might have spoken with a physician who could have completely cured me . 
But I like not to discuss such matters I think he would pay me no heed and would not consent to accept a fee . 
I do not know ? I know full well that it is Love who does me this injury . 
He who has not had experience of him does not know what tricks Love plays . 
He is a fool who joins his ranks for he always seeks to harm his followers . 
Upon my faith , his tricks are bad . 
It is poor sport to play with him , for his game will only do me harm . 
What shall I do , then ? Shall I retreat ? I think it would be wise to do so , but I know not how to do it . 
If Love chastens and threatens me in order to teach and instruct me , ought I to disdain my teacher ? He is a fool who scorns his master . 
I ought to keep and cherish the lesson which Love teaches me , for great good may soon come of it . 
But I am frightened because he beats me so . 
How has he pierced thy body with it , when no wound appears without ? Tell me that , for I wish to know . 
How did he make it enter in ? Through the eye . 
Through the eye ? But he has not put it out ? He did not harm the eye at all , but all the pain is in the heart . 
Then tell me , if the dart passed through the eye , how is it that the eye itself is not injured or put out . 
But many an object seems fair to it when it looks at it in the glass , which will deceive it if it is not on its guard . 
I am ill treated by my friend , who deserts me for my enemy . 
I may well accuse him of felony for the wrong he has done to me . 
I thought I had three friends , my heart and my two eyes together but it seems that they hate me . 
After my experience with these who have done me wrong , I know full well that a good man's love may be befouled by wicked servants in his employ . 
He who is attended by a wicked servant will surely have cause to rue it , sooner or later . 
Yet I shall devote all my effort to telling you how it seems to me . 
The feathers are coloured as if they were of gold or gilt but gilt is here beside the mark , for I know these feathers were more brilliant than any gilt . 
This dart is barbed with the golden tresses that I saw the other day at sea . 
That is the dart which awakes my love . 
But all this is of little worth to him who sees her flashing eyes to all who gaze on them they seem like twin candles burning . 
There is so much to be said were I to portray each detailed charm of chin and ears , that it would not be strange were I to pass over some little thing . 
Of her throat I shall only say that crystal beside it looks opaque . 
And her neck beneath her hair is four times as white as ivory . 
Between the border of her gown and the buckle at the parted throat , I saw her bosom left exposed and whiter than new fallen snow . 
My pain would be indeed assuaged , if I had seen the dart entire . 
Gladly would I tell , if I but knew , what was the nature of the shaft . 
But I did nor see it , and it is not my fault if I do not attempt to describe something I have never seen . 
Upon my faith , malady which tortures me is the arrow it is the dart at which I am a wretch to be enraged . 
I am ungrateful to be incensed . 
Never shall a straw be broken because of any distrust or quarrel that may arise between Love and me . 
Now let Love do what he will with me as with one who belongs to him for I wish it , and so it pleases me . 
Alexander's complaint is long enough but that of the maiden is nothing less . 
All night she lies in such distress that she cannot sleep or get repose . 
And when she has refreshed herself somewhat with thinking to her heart's content , she stretches and tosses about again , and ridicules all the thoughts she has had . 
Deprive ? No , indeed ! That I surely will not do . 
In faith , then , I do not hate him ! And am I for that reason his friend ? Nay , I am not his any more than any other man's . 
I feel such joy at the sight of him ! Is this love ? Yes , I believe it is . 
I should not appeal to him so often , if I did not love him above all others . 
So I love him , then , let it be agreed . 
Then shall I not do what I please ? Yes , provided he does not refuse . 
I have demeaned myself prudently toward Love so long , and would never accede to his will but now I am more than kindly disposed toward him . 
Now I am ready to love , and I have a master , and Love will teach me but what ? How I am to serve his will . 
But of that I am very well informed , and am so expert in serving him that no one could find fault with me . 
I need learn no more of that . 
Love would have it , and so would I , that I should be sensible and modest and kind and approachable to all for the sake of one I love . 
Love's lessons are only good . 
It is not without significance that I am called by the name of Soredamors . 
I am destined to love and be loved in turn , and I intend to prove it by my name , if I can find the explanation there . 
There is some significance in the fact that the first part of my name is of golden colour for what is golden is the best . 
For this reason I highly esteem my name , because it begins with that colour with which the purest gold harmonises . 
And the end of the name calls Love to my mind for whoever calls me by my right name always refreshes me with love . 
And one half gilds the other with a bright coat of yellow gold for Soredamors has the meaning of one gilded over with Love . 
Love has highly honoured me in gilding me over with himself . 
A gilding of real gold is not so fine as that which makes me radiant . 
And I shall henceforth do my best to be his gilding , and shall never again complain of it . 
Now I love and ever more shall love . 
Whom ? Truly , that is a fine question ! Him whom Love bids me love , for no other shall ever have my love . 
What ? Shall I beseech him , then ? Nay . 
Why ? Did ever such a thing come about that a woman should be so forward as to make love to any man unless she were clean beside herself . 
I should be mad beyond question if I uttered anything for which I might be reproached . 
If he should know the truth through word of mine I think he would hold me in slight esteem , and would often reproach me with having solicited his love . 
I will wait until his attention is aroused , if ever it is to be aroused . 
He will surely guess the truth , I think , if ever he has had commerce with Love , or has heard of it by word of mouth . 
Heard of it ? That is a foolish thing to say . 
Love is not of such easy access that any one may claim acquaintance by hear say only and without personal experience . 
But I have always stood aloof , and now he makes me pay a heavy penalty now I know more about it than does the ox of ploughing . 
But one thing causes me despair I fear he has never been in love . 
And if he is not in love , and never has been so , then I have sowed in the sea where no seed can take root . 
So there is nothing to do but wait and suffer , until I see whether I can lead him on by hints and covered words . 
I shall continue this until he is sure of my love and dares to ask me for it . 
So there is nothing more about the matter , but that I love him and am his . 
If he loves me not , yet will I love him . 
Thus he and she utter their complaint , unhappy at night and worse by day , each hiding the truth from the other's eyes . 
In such distress they remained a long time in Brittany , I believe , until the end of the summer came . 
At the beginning of October there came messengers by Dover from London and Canterbury , bearing to the King news which troubled him . 
When the King heard this news , angry and sore displeased he summons all his knights . 
Thus they all assure the King , giving him their word upon oath , that they will deliver the traitor to him , or never again claim their fiefs . 
And the King proclaims throughout Brittany that no one who can bear arms shall refuse to follow him at once . 
All Brittany is now astir . 
Never was such an army seen as King Arthur brought together . 
It is certainly true that , to judge by the commotion , all Brittany is under way . 
Now the ships have crossed the Channel , and the assembled host is quartered on the shore . 
Alexander bethought himself to go and pray the King to make him a knight , for if ever he should win renown it will be in this war . 
Prompted by his desire , he takes his companions with him to accomplish what he has in mind . 
On reaching the King's quarters , they found him seated before his tent . 
When he saw the Greeks approaching , he summoned them to him , saying Gentlemen , do not conceal what business has brought you here . 
The King replies Very gladly nor shall there be any delay about it , since you have preferred your request . 
Then the King commands that equipment shall be furnished for twelve knights . 
Straightway the King's command is done . 
As each one asks for his equipment , it is handed to him rich arms and a good horse thus each one received his outfit . 
At the water's edge they stripped , and then washed and bathed themselves . 
Not wishing that any other bath should be heated for them , they washed in the sea and used it as their tub . 
All this is known to the Queen , who bears Alexander no ill will , but rather loves , esteems , and values him . 
She wishes to make Alexander a gift , but it is far more precious than she thinks . 
She seeks and delves in all her boxes until she finds a white silk shirt , well made of delicate texture , and very soft . 
Every thread in the stitching of it was of gold , or of silver at least . 
For the hair was quite as bright and golden as the thread of gold itself . 
The Queen takes the shirt and presents it to Alexander . 
But , more is the pity , neither of them knew the truth . 
The Queen's messenger finds the youths on the shore where they are bathing , and gives the shirt to Alexander . 
He is greatly pleased with it , esteeming the present all the more because it was given him by the Queen . 
Alexander delays no longer , but dresses himself at once . 
When he was dressed and ready , he returned to the King's tent with all his companions . 
The Queen , it seems , had come there , too , wishing to see the new knights present themselves . 
They might all be called handsome , but Alexander with his shapely body was the fairest of them all . 
Well , now that they are knights I will say no more of them for the present , but will tell of the King and of his host which came to London . 
Most of the people remained faithful to him , though many allied themselves with the opposition . 
Count Angres assembled his forces , consisting of all those whose influence could be gained by promises or gifts . 
When he had gathered all his strength , he slipped away quietly at night , fearing to be betrayed by the many who hated him . 
But before he made off , he sacked London as completely as possible of provisions , gold and silver , which he divided among his followers . 
Then the King replied that he would not take a ransom for the traitor , but rather hang him , if he could catch him or lay hands on him . 
Thereupon , all the army proceeded to Windsor . 
However it may be now , in those days the castle was not easy to take when any one chose to defend it . 
The gate was never closed from fear or against assault . 
The castle stood upon a high hill , and around beneath it flows the Thames . 
The host encamped on the river bank , and that day they have time only to pitch camp and set up the tents . 
The army is in camp beside the Thames , and all the meadow is filled with green and red tents . 
The sun , striking on the colours , causes the river to flash for more than a league around . 
In coming thus , they showed those without the walls that they stood in no fear of them . 
Alexander stood aloof and watched the knights disporting themselves at feats of arms . 
He yearns to attack them , and summons his companions one by one by name . 
My lords , he says , I feel the call to go with shield and lance to make the acquaintance of those who disport themselves yonder before our eyes . 
I see they scorn us and hold us in slight esteem , when they come thus without their arms to exercise before our very eyes . 
We have just been knighted , and have not yet given an account of ourselves against any knight or manikin . 
We have kept our first lances too long intact . 
And for what were our shields intended ? As yet , they have not a hole or crack to show . 
There is no use in having them except in a combat or a fight . 
Then they fasten on their swords , tighten their saddles and girths , and mount their steeds with shields in hand . 
When they had hung the shields about their necks , and taken their lances with the gaily coloured ensigns , they all proceed to the ford at once . 
Those on the farther side lower their lances , and quickly ride to strike at them . 
knew how to pay them back , not sparing nor avoiding them , nor yielding to them a foot of ground . 
Rather , each man struck his opponent so fiercely that there is no knight so brave but is compelled to leave the saddle . 
They did not underestimate the experience , skill , and bravery of their antagonists , but made their first blows count , and unhorsed thirteen of them . 
The report spread to the camp of the fight and of the blows that were being struck . 
There would soon have been a merry strife if the others had dared to stand their ground . 
All through the camp they run to arms , and raising a shout they cross the ford . 
And those on the farther bank take to flight , seeing no advantage in staying where they are . 
And the Greeks pursue them with blows of lance and sword . 
Though they struck off many a head they themselves did not receive a wound , and gave a good account of themselves that day . 
But Alexander distinguished himself , who by his own efforts led off four captive knights in bonds . 
The sands are strewn with headless dead , while many others lie wounded and injured . 
Alexander courteously presents the victims of his first conquest to the Queen , not wishing them to fall into the hands of the King , who would have had them all hanged . 
The Queen , however , had them seized and safely kept under guard , as being charged with treason . 
While the Queen was in conference with the King , as was necessary , about the traitors , the Greeks remained in the Queen's tent with her maids in waiting . 
While his twelve companions conversed with them , Alexander uttered not a word . 
Soredamors took note of this , seated as she was close by his side . 
Her head resting upon her hand , it was plain that she was lost in thought . 
Thus they sat a long time , until Soredamors saw on his sleeve and about his neck the hair which she had stitched into the shirt . 
Then she drew a little closer thinking now to find an excuse for speaking a word to him . 
If I should dare to call him friend . 
! Should I dare ? What forbids me to do so ? The fact that that implies a lie . 
A lie ? I know not what the result will be , but I shall be sorry if I do not speak the truth . 
Therefore , it is best to admit that I should not like to speak a lie . 
But if I lie the fault is his . 
But if I simply called him friend' , I could soon utter so short a name . 
Fearing lest I should break down in uttering his proper name , I would fain shed my blood if his name were simply my sweet friend . 
She turns this thought over in her mind until the Queen returns from the King who had summoned her . 
Alexander , seeing her come , goes to meet her , and inquires what is the King's command concerning the prisoners , and what is to be their fate . 
Friend , says she , he requires of me to surrender them at his discretion , and to let his justice be carried out . 
Indeed , he is much incensed that I have not already handed them over . 
So I must needs send them to him , since I see no help for it . 
Some hold that they should be flayed alive , and others that they should be hanged or burned . 
And the King , for his part , maintains that traitors ought to be torn asunder . 
Then he commands them to be brought in . 
When this sentence was pronounced , the King addresses Alexander , calling him his dear friend . 
My friend , he says , yesterday I saw you attack and defend yourself with great bravery . 
I wish now to reward your action ! I will add to your company five hundred Welsh knights and one thousand troopers from that land . 
In addition to what I have given you , when the war is over I will crown you king of the best kingdom in Wales . 
Towns and castles , cities and halls will I give you until the time you receive the land which your father holds , and of which you are to be emperor . 
Men of Wales and Britain , of Scotland and Cornwall , both good and bad without exception all take arms , for the forces of the host were recruited from all quarters . 
After fording the Thames , the army divided , some taking possession of the valley , and others occupying the high ground . 
But before any assault is made , the King has the traitors drawn by four horses through the valleys and over the hills and unploughed fields . 
At this Count Angres is much distressed , when he sees those whom he held dear dragged around outside the town . 
And his people , too , are much dismayed , but in spite of the anxiety which they feel , they have no mind to yield the place . 
When the four had been torn asunder and their limbs lay strewn upon the field , then the assault begins . 
But all their labour is in vain , for no matter how much they cast and shoot , their efforts are of no effect . 
Yet they strive to do their utmost , hurling their javelins amain , and shooting darts and bolts . 
On all sides is heard the din of cross bows and slings as the arrows and the round stones fly thick , like rain mixed with hail . 
Thus all day long the struggle of attack and defence continues , until the night separates them . 
When this news was announced , Alexander had not forgotten his custom of going to see the Queen each evening . 
That night , too , he had gone thither and was seated beside the Queen . 
Soredamors was sitting alone close by them , looking at him with such satisfaction that she would not have exchanged her lot for Paradise . 
And she laughed as she happened to recall that the embroidery was the work of Soredamors . 
Alexander noticed this , and begged her to tell him , if suitable , why she laughed . 
The Queen was slow to make reply , and looking toward Soredamors , bade her come to her . 
Gladly she went and knelt before her . 
Alexander was overjoyed when he saw her draw so near that he could have touched her . 
But he is not so bold as even to look at her but rather does he so lose his senses that he is well nigh speechless . 
And she , for her part , is so overcome that she has not the use of her eyes but she casts her glance upon the ground without fastening it upon anything . 
The Queen marvels greatly at seeing her now pale , now crimson , and she notes well in her heart the bearing and expression of each of them . 
She notices and thinks she sees that these changes of colour are the fruit of love . 
But not wishing to embarrass them , she pretends to understand nothing of what she sees . 
He is glad to have so much of his lady , but he does not hope or expect ever to receive more from her his very desire makes him dubious . 
Yet , when he has left the Queen and is by himself , he kisses it more than a hundred thousand times , feeling how fortunate he is . 
All night long he makes much of it , but is careful that no one shall see him . 
As he lies upon his bed , he finds a vain delight and solace in what can give him no satisfaction . 
All night he presses the shirt in his arms , and when he looks at the golden hair , he feels like the lord of the whole wide world . 
Thus Love makes a fool of this sensible man , who finds his delight in a single hair and is in ecstasy over its possession . 
But this charm will come to an end for him before the sun's bright dawn . 
For the traitors are met in council to discuss what they can do and what their prospects are . 
And if they should surrender the town , they need expect no mercy for doing so . 
Thus either outcome looks dark indeed , for they see no help , but only death in either case . 
Before they wake and get their armour on there will have been such slaughter done that posterity will always speak of the battle of that night . 
Having no further confidence in life , the traitors as a last resort all subscribe to this design . 
Despair emboldened them to fight , whatever the result might be for they see nothing sure in store for them save death or imprisonment . 
toward the north west , that being the side where they thought the camp would least expect attack . 
In serried ranks they sallied forth , and divided their force into five companies , each consisting of two thousand well armed foot , in addition to a thousand knights . 
That night neither star nor moon had shed a ray across the sky . 
But before they reached the tents , the moon began to show itself , and I think it was to work them woe that it rose sooner than was its wont . 
Thus God , who opposed their enterprise , illumined the darkness of the night , having no love for these evil men , but rather hating them for their sin . 
For God hates traitors and treachery more than any other sin . 
So the moon began to shine in order to hamper their enterprise . 
They are much hampered by the moon , as it shines upon their shields , and they are handicapped by their helmets , too , as they glitter in the moonlight . 
They are detected by the pickets keeping watch over the host , who now shout throughout the camp Up . 
knights , up ! Rise quickly , take your arms and arm yourselves ! The traitors are upon us . 
While they are arming themselves , the attacking forces are eager for battle and press forward , hoping to catch them off their guard and find them disarmed . 
For they planned to fall upon the tents suddenly with great fury . 
But they did not find the path clear . 
For the King's men resist them , defying them courageously and reproaching them for their treason . 
Their iron lance tips are splintered and shattered as they meet they come together with swords drawn , striking each other and casting each other down upon the face . 
They rush upon each other with the fury of lions , which devour whatever they capture . 
In this first rush there was heavy slaughter on both sides . 
When they can no longer maintain themselves , help comes to the traitors , who are defending themselves bravely and selling their lives dearly . 
They see their troops from four sides arrive to succour them . 
And the King's men ride hard with spur to attack them . 
They deal such blows upon their shields that , beside the wounded , they unhorse more than five hundred of them . 
Many he killed and many stunned , for like a flying thunderbolt he blasts all those whom he seeks out . 
Neither coat of mail nor shield can protect him whom he strikes with lance or sword . 
His companions , too , are generous in the spilling of blood and brains , for they , too , know well how to deal their blows . 
And the royal troops butcher so many of them that they break them up and scatter them like low born folk who have lost their heads . 
Count Angres leaves his banner on the field and steals away , accompanied by only seven of his men . 
Towards his town he made his way by a secret path , thinking that no one could see him . 
But before he got down into the valley , he saw thirty knights following him down the path , of whom six were Greeks , and twenty four were men of Wales . 
These intended to follow him at a distance until he should stand in need of them . 
When Alexander saw them coming , he stopped to wait for them , without failing to observe what course was taken by those who were making their way back to the town . 
Finally , he saw them enter it . 
Then he began to plan a very daring deed and a very marvellous design . 
And they promised him never to oppose his will in aught . 
Then he says Let us change our outer gear , by taking the shields and lances from the traitors whom we have killed . 
And do you know what reward we shall offer them ? If God so will we shall take them all dead or alive . 
Now , if any of you repents of his promise , be sure that , so long as I live , I shall never hold him dear . 
All the others grant his boon , and , despoiling the corpses of their shields , they arm themselves with them instead . 
The gatekeeper opens the gate for them and admits them to the town . 
Thus it seems that they are in great distress , as they pass on at their own sweet will until they are within the triple walls . 
Inside they find a number of men at arms and knights with the Count . 
I cannot tell you just how many but they were unarmed , except eight of them who had just returned from the fight , and even they were preparing to remove their arms . 
Indeed , three of those whom they found still armed were so roughly handled that but five remained alive . 
Count Angres rushed at Calcedor , and in the sight of all struck him upon his golden shield with such violence that he stretched him dead upon the ground . 
If possible , he would avenge his friend . 
But the Count was a powerful man and a good and hardy knight , whose match it would have been hard to find , had he not been a base traitor . 
But the fact that the Count was in the wrong disturbs him greatly and troubles him . 
The anger of each rises higher as they both draw their swords after their lances had been broken . 
No escape would have been possible if these two swordsmen had persisted in continuing the fight . 
But at last one or the other must die . 
The Count dares not longer hold his ground , when he sees lying dead about him his men who had been caught unarmed . 
Meanwhile the others press them hard , cutting , slashing , and carving them , spilling their brains , and reproaching the Count for his treachery . 
When he hears himself accused of treason , he flees for safety to his tower , followed by his men . 
And their enemies follow after them , fiercely charging them from the rear , and not letting a single one escape of all upon whom they lay their hands . 
They kill and slay so many of them that I guess not more than seven made good their escape . 
The traitors make a brave defence , waiting for succour from their friends , who were arming themselves down in the town . 
Now there was only one entrance to the stronghold so that , if they stop that entrance way , they need have no fear that any force shall approach to do them harm . 
Nabunal bids and exhorts twenty of them to hold the gate for soon such a company might arrive with force as would do them harm by their assault and attack . 
While these twenty hold the gate , the remaining ten should attack the tower and prevent the Count from barricading himself inside . 
Nabunal's advice is taken ten remain to continue the assault at the entrance of the tower , while twenty go to defend the gate . 
Some carried light missiles , and others Danish axes , lances and Turkish swords , bolts for cross bows , arrows and javelins . 
The Greeks would have had to pay a heavy score , if this crowd had actually fallen upon them but they did not reach the place in time . 
Nabunal by his foresight and counsel had blocked their plans , and they were forced to remain outside . 
When they see that they are shut out , they pause in their advance , as it is evident they can gain nothing by making an assault . 
Then there begins such weeping and wailing of women and young children , of old men and youths , that those in the town could not have heard a thunder clap from heaven . 
At this the Greeks are overjoyed for now they know of a certainty that the Count by no good luck can escape capture . 
Four of them mount the walls to keep watch lest those outside by any means or ruse should enter the stronghold and fall upon them . 
The remaining sixteen returned to where the ten were fighting . 
The day was already breaking , and the ten had fought so well that they had forced their way within the tower . 
The Count took his stand against a post , and , armed with a battleaxe , defended himself with great bravery . 
Those whom he reaches , he splits in half . 
Alexander is almost beside himself when he sees the havoc wrought among his dead or exhausted followers . 
After this blow the battle ceases . 
Alexander leaps at the Count and holds him so that he cannot move . 
Of the others nothing need be said , for they were easily mastered when they saw the capture of their lord . 
All are made prisoners with the Count and led away in disgrace , in accordance with their deserts . 
Of all this the men outside knew nothing . 
But when morning came they found their companions shields lying among the slain when the battle was over . 
Then the Greeks , misled , made a great lament for their lord . 
Recognising his shield , all are in an agony of grief , swooning at sight of his shield and saying that now they have lived too long . 
Cornix and Nerius first swoon , then , recovering their senses , wish they were dead . 
So do Torin and Acorionde . 
The tears run down in floods from their eyes upon their breasts . 
Life and joy seem hateful now . 
And Parmenides more than the rest tore his hair in dire distress . 
No greater grief could be shown than that of these five for their lord . 
Yet , their dismay is groundless , for it is another's body which they bear away when they think to have their lord . 
Their distress is further increased by the sight of the other shields , which cause them to mistake these corpses for their companions . 
So over them they lament and swoon . 
But they are deceived by all these shields , for of their men only one was killed , whose name was Neriolis . 
Him , indeed , they would have borne away had they known the truth . 
But they are in as great anxiety for the others as for him so they bore them all away . 
In every case but one they were misled . 
But like the man who dreams and takes a fiction for the truth , so the shields cause them to suppose this illusion to be a reality . 
It is the shields , then , that cause this mistake . 
Carrying the corpses , they move away and come to their tents , where there was a sorrowing troop . 
Upon hearing the lament raised by the Greeks , soon all the others gathered , until there was but one great outcry . 
Now Saredamors thinks of her wretched estate when she hears the cry and lament over her lover . 
Their anguish and distress cause her to lose her senses and her colour , and her grief and sorrow are increased because she dares not openly show a trace of her distress . 
She shut up her grief within her heart . 
Each one lamented his own loss . 
For they find the river bank covered with their relatives and friends , who had been wounded or roughly treated . 
Thus fathers , brothers , and relatives bemoan their loss on every side . 
But above all is noticeable the sorrow of the Greeks and yet they might have anticipated great joy , for the deepest grief of all the camp will soon be changed into rejoicing . 
The Greeks outside continue their lament , while those inside strive to let them know the news which will cause them to rejoice . 
They disarm and bind their prisoners , who pray and beg of them to strike off their heads straightway . 
When they had disarmed them all they made them go up on the wall that they might be seen by the troops below . 
This privilege is not to their liking , and when they saw their lord bound as a prisoner , they were unhappy men . 
Go , says he , confidently to the King at my command , and cast yourselves upon his mercy . 
None of you , except the Count , has deserved to die . 
You shall not lose either life or limb if you surrender to the King . 
If you do not deliver yourselves from death by crying for mercy , you need have little hope of saving your lives or bodies . 
Go forth disarmed to meet the King , and tell him from me that Alexander sends you to him . 
Your action will not be in vain for my lord the King is so gentle and courteous that he will lay aside his wrath and anger . 
But if you wish to act otherwise , you must expect to die , for his heart will be closed to pity . 
All agree in accepting this advice , and do not hesitate until they come to the King's tent , where they all fall at his feet . 
The story they told was soon known throughout the camp . 
The King and all his men mounted and spurred their horses to the town without delay . 
Alexander goes out from the town to meet the King , who was greatly pleased , and to surrender to him the Count . 
The King did not delay in fitly punishing him . 
But Alexander is congratulated and praised by the King and all the others who esteem him highly . 
Their joy drives away the grief which they had felt not long before . 
But no joy of the others can compare with the exultation of the Greeks . 
Alexander dares not mention his heart's desire , though he knows well that he would not be refused in asking for his sweetheart's hand . 
Therefore , he asks for a little time , not wishing to prefer his request until he is sure of her pleasure . 
But he asked for no respite or delay in accepting the cup of gold . 
He takes the cup , and courteously begs my lord Gawain to accept this cup as a gift from him , which Gawain did most reluctantly . 
When Soredamors learned the truth about Alexander she was greatly pleased and delighted . 
When she heard that he was alive , she was so happy that it seemed to her as though she could never be sad again . 
But she reflects that he is slower in coming than is his wont . 
Yet in good time she will have her wish , for both of them in rivalry are occupied with one common thought . 
It seemed to Alexander an age before he could feast his eyes with even one soft glance from her . 
Long ago he would fain have gone to the Queen's tent , if he had not been detained elsewhere . 
He was much put out by this delay , and as soon as he could , he betook himself to the Queen in her tent . 
The Queen went to greet him , and , without his having confided in her , she had already read his thoughts , and knew what was passing in his mind . 
She greets him at the entrance of the tent , and strives to make him welcome , well knowing for what purpose he has come . 
Desirous of according him a favour , she beckons Soredamors to join them , and they three engage in conversation at some distance from the rest . 
The Queen first speaks , in whose mind there was no doubt that this couple were in love . 
Of this fact she is quite sure , and is persuaded moreover that Soredamors could not have a better lover . 
She took her place between the two and began to say what was appropriate . 
Alexander , says the Queen , any love is worse than hate , when it torments and distresses its devotee . 
Lovers know not what they do when they conceal their passion from one another . 
Love is a serious business , and whoever does not boldly lay its foundation firm can hardly succeed in completing the edifice . 
They say there is nothing so hard to cross as the threshold . 
Now I wish to instruct you in the lore of love for I know well that Love is tormenting you . 
Now I counsel you to exercise no tyranny , and to seek no passing gratification in your love but to be honourably joined together in marriage . 
So , I believe , your love shall long endure . 
I can assure you that , if you agree to this , I will arrange the marriage . 
I wish never to be deserted by love , but always to fix my thoughts on it . 
I am pleased and delighted by what you have so kindly said . 
Since you know what my wishes are , I see no reason why I should conceal them from you . 
Long ago , if I had dared I would have confessed them openly for the silence has been hard . 
But it may well be that for some reason this maiden may not wish that I be hers and she mine . 
But even if she grant me no rights over her , yet will I place myself in her hands . 
At these words she trembled , having no desire to refuse the gift . 
Her heart's desire betrays itself in her words and her countenance . 
The Queen clasps them both in her arms , and presents one to the other . 
Then laughingly she adds I give over to thee , Alexander , thy sweetheart's body , and I know that thy heart does not draw back . 
Whoever may like it or like it not , I give each of you to the other . 
Do thou , Soredamors , take what is thine , and thou , Alexander , take what is thine ! Now she has her own entire , and he has his without lack . 
At Windsor that day , with the approval and permission of my lord Gawain and the King , the marriage was celebrated . 
No one could tell , I am sure , so much of the magnificence and the food , of the pleasure and entertainment , at this wedding without falling short of the truth . 
Inasmuch as it would be distasteful to some , I do not care to waste further words upon the matter , but am anxious to turn to another subject . 
That day at Windsor Alexander had all the honour and happiness that he could desire . 
But the greatest joy of all was the third that his sweetheart was queen of the chess board where he was king . 
Before five months had passed , Soredamors found herself with child , and carried it until the time was fulfilled . 
The seed remained in germ until the fruit was fully matured . 
No more beautiful child was ever born before or since than he whom they now called Cliges . 
So Cliges was born , in whose honour this story has been put in the Romance tongue . 
You shall hear me tell of him and of his valorous deeds , when he shall have grown to manhood and obtained a good report . 
But meanwhile in Greece it came about that he who ruled over Constantinople drew near his end . 
He died , as indeed he must , not being able to outlive his time . 
But before he died he assembled all the nobles of his land to send and seek for his son Alexander , who was happily detained in Britain . 
The messengers start out from Greece , and begin their voyage over the seas but a tempest catches them in its grasp , and damages their ship and company . 
They were all drowned at sea , except one unfaithful wretch , who was more devoted to Alis the younger son than to Alexander the eider . 
They believed this lie of his , and , taking Alis without objection or dissent , they crowned him emperor of Greece . 
But it was not long before Alexander learned that Alis was emperor . 
Then he took leave of King Arthur , unwilling to let his brother usurp his land without protest . 
Alexander , had he pleased , might have led a mighty force but he has no desire to harm his own people , if his brother will consent to do his will . 
He took with him forty knights besides Soredamors and his son these two persons , who were so dear to him , he did not wish to leave behind . 
Escorted as far as Shoreham by the entire court , they there embarked , and with fair winds their ship made way more quickly than a fleeing stag . 
Within a month , I think , they arrived in port before Athens , a rich and powerful city . 
Indeed , the emperor was residing there , and had convoked , a great assembly of his noblemen . 
His ancestors for generations had always exercised lordship in the city . 
When he had learned that the emperor was in the city he went and challenged the crown on behalf of his brother Alexander , accusing him openly of having usurped it unlawfully . 
Coming into the presence of the emperor he neither greets him nor bows before him nor calls him emperor . 
Alis , he says , I bring thee tidings of Alexander , who is out yonder in the harbour . 
Listen to thy brother's message he asks thee for what belongs to him , nor does he demand what is unjust . 
Constantinople , which thou dost hold , should be his and shall be his . 
It would be neither just nor right that discord should arise between you two . 
So give him the crown without contest , for it is right that thou shouldst surrender it . 
Alis replies Fair gentle friend , thou hast undertaken a mad enterprise in bearing this message . 
There is little comfort in thy speech , for well I know that my brother is dead . 
I should rejoice , indeed , to learn that he was still alive . 
But I shall not believe the news until I have seen him with my eyes . 
He died some time ago , alas ! What thou sayest is not credible . 
And if he lives , why does he not come ? He need never fear that I will not bestow on him some lands . 
He is a fool to hold aloof from me , for in serving me he will find profit . 
But no one shall possess the crown and empire beside me . 
He liked not the speech of the emperor , and did not fail to speak his mind in the reply he made . 
Alis , he says , may God confound me if the matter is thus allowed to stand . 
I defy thee in thy brother's name , and dutifully speaking in his name , I summon all those whom I see here to renounce thee and to join his cause . 
It is right that they should side with him and recognise him as their lord . 
Let him who is loyal now stand forth . 
Upon saying this he leaves the court , and the emperor summons those in whom he has most confidence . 
He requests their advice concerning this defiance upon his brother's part , and wishes to learn if he can trust them to lend no support or help to his brother's claim . 
So , too , it may happen to you , if you undertake a war , and all the land will be distressed . 
Therefore , they advise that such a peace be sought as shall be both reasonable and just , and that neither one make excessive demands . 
When this news was brought to Alexander his men made ready with him and came to Athens , where they were received with joy . 
Upon this the brothers both agreed . 
Alexander dictated the terms of the oath , and his brother agreed and gave his word that he would never in his life take a wife in marriage . 
So peace is made , and they are friends again , to the great satisfaction of the lords . 
They hold Alis as their emperor , but all business is referred to Alexander . 
What he commands is done , and little is done except through him . 
Alis has nothing but the name of emperor but Alexander is served and loved and he who does not serve him for love must needs do so from fear . 
Through the effect of one or the other of these two motives he has all the land within his power . 
But he whom they call Death spares neither the strong man nor the weak , but kills and slays them all . 
So Alexander had to die for a disease caught him in its grip from which he could obtain no relief . 
If adventure takes thee thither , so conduct and demean thyself that thy identity be not known until thou hast tried thy strength with the most excellent knights of that court . 
I beg thee to heed my counsel in this matter , and if the occasion arises have no fear to measure thy skill with thy uncle , my lord Gawain . 
Do not forget this advice , I pray . 
After he had thus exhorted him , he did not live long . 
Soredamors' grief was such that she could not survive him , but died after him of a broken heart . 
Alis and Cliges both mourned him becomingly , but finally they ceased their grief , for sorrow , like everything else , must be outlived . 
To continue in sorrow is wrong , for no good can come from it . 
So the mourning was ended , and the emperor refrained for a long time from taking a wife , being careful of his word . 
But there is no court in all the world which is free from evil counsel . 
Great men often go astray , and do not observe loyalty because of the bad advice they take . 
But he insists that she who is to be mistress of Constantinople must be gentle , fair , wise , rich , and noble . 
Then his counsellors say that they wish to prepare to go away to the German land , and seek the daughter of the emperor . 
The emperor grants them full authority , and they set out upon the journey well provided with all they need . 
They proceeded on their way until they found the emperor at Regensburg , when they asked him to give them his oldest daughter at the instance of their lord . 
The emperor was pleased with this request , and gladly gave them his daughter for in doing so , he does not debase himself , nor diminish his honour in any way . 
When the messengers heard the emperor's reply , they took leave and departed . 
They returned to their lord , and bore him the answer . 
Upon a certain day he leaves Greece and draws near to Germany , intending to take a wife despite all blame and reproach but his honour will be smirched . 
Upon reaching Cologne , he found that the emperor had assembled all his court for a festival . 
Great was the crowd of people , and great the joy of the two emperors when they met . 
When the barons had gathered in the vast palace , the emperor summoned his charming daughter . 
The maiden made no delay in coming straightway into the palace . 
She had been made very fair and shapely by the Creator , whose pleasure it had been to arouse the people's admiration . 
God , who had fashioned her , never gave man a word which could adequately express such beauty as she possessed . 
for if the Phoenix bird is unique as the most beautiful of all the birds , so Fenice , it seems to me , had no equal in beauty . 
She was such a miracle and marvel that Nature was never able to make her like again . 
I know very well , if I should undertake it , that I would exhaust my brain and waste my pains it would be but misspent energy . 
The damsel hastened until she came into the palace , with head uncovered and face unveiled and the radiance of her beauty lighted the palace more brightly than four carbuncles would have done . 
Cliges stood , his over cloak removed , in his uncle's presence . 
I wish to attempt in a very few words to describe the beauty of Cliges . 
He was in his flower , being now almost fifteen years of age . 
but as fine gold surpasses copper , so was Cliges better endowed with wisdom , and even then I have not said all . 
His locks seemed made of fine gold , and his face was of a fresh rosy colour . 
Nature was so lavish with him that she gave him all she could , and placed all in one receptacle . 
Such was Cliges , who combined good sense and beauty , generosity and strength . 
In Cliges there lacked no good thing . 
Cliges stood in all his beauty before his uncle , and those who did not know who he was looked at him with eager curiosity . 
And on the other hand , the interest was aroused of those who did not know the maiden wonderingly they gaze upon her . 
Blithely he looks upon the maid , but does not note that she repays him in kind . 
Not flattering him , but in sincere love , she gives him her eyes , and takes back his . 
This exchange seems good to her , and would have seemed to her better still had she known something of who he was . 
She handed over to him the possession of her eyes and heart , and he pledged his in turn to her . 
Pledged ? Rather gave outright . 
Gave ? Nay , upon my faith , I lie for no one can give away his heart . 
I must express it some other way . 
But if it please you to heed my words , I shall be able explain how two hearts form but one without coming to be identified . 
Each one always keeps his own heart , though the desire be shared by both , just as many different men may sing a song or tune in unison . 
But there is no need of further argument , for other matters press upon me . 
I must speak now of the damsel and of Cliges , and you shall hear of the Duke of Saxony , who has sent to Cologne a young nephew of his . 
The youth spoke his message well , without pride and without insult . 
But he found neither knight nor emperor who would answer him . 
When he saw that they all held their peace and treated him with scorn , he left the court in defiant mood . 
But youth and thirst for daring deeds made Cliges defy him in combat as he left . 
For the contest they mount their steeds , three hundred of them on either side , exactly equal thus in strength . 
All the palace is quite emptied of knights and ladies , who mount to the balconies , battlements , and windows to see and watch those who were about to fight . 
Even the maiden , whose will Love had subdued beneath his sway , sought for a point from which to see . 
But all her thoughts and glances soon rest upon one object , and to all others she is indifferent . 
Whereever Cliges goes , she seeks to follow him with her eyes . 
He attacks the duke's nephew , who was breaking many a lance and sorely discomfiting the Greeks . 
When he got up , the uproar was great for the youth arose and mounted , thinking to avenge his shame . 
But many a man only falls into deeper disgrace who thinks to avenge his shame when he has the chance . 
The young man rushes at Cliges , who lowers his lance to meet him , and thrusts at him with such force that he carries him to earth again . 
But those of Germany and the Greeks are overjoyed when they see their party drive off the Saxons , who retreat discomfited . 
With mockery they pursue them until they come up with them at a stream , into which they drive them for a plunge . 
In the deepest part of the ford Cliges unhorsed the duke's nephew and so many of his men that they escaped grieving and sad in their shame and confusion . 
Thus was the maiden subdued by the man . 
For Love has made her give her heart to the fairest , most courteous , and valiant man that could anywhere be found . 
But some force must be employed , if she would gain possession of him who is not free do her will . 
This makes her anxious and distraught . 
For she has no one with whom to take counsel concerning him for whom she pines , but must waste herself in thought and vigils . 
She becomes so affected by these cares that she loses her colour and grows wan , and it becomes plain to all that her loss of colour betokens an unfulfilled desire . 
She plays less now than she used to do , and laughs less and loses her gaiety . 
But she conceals her trouble and passes it off , if any one asks what her ailment is . 
who was skilled in necromancy , having been born in Thessaly , where devilish charms are taught and wrought for the women of that country perform many a charm and mystic rite . 
I can cure the dropsy , gout , quinsy , and asthma I am so expert in examining the urine and the pulse that you need consult no other physician . 
knew of enchantments and of charms which tests have proven to be true . 
My lady , you will do well to tell me what your sickness is before its hold becomes more severe . 
The emperor has committed you to me in order that I may care for you , and my devotion has been such that I have kept you safe and sound . 
Now all my pains will come to naught if I do not relieve this malady . 
Take care not to conceal from me whether this is sickness or something else . 
The damsel dares not openly expose her desire in all its fullness for she is in fear lest she be disapproved and blamed . 
Nurse , she said , I truly thought I felt no pain , but I shall soon feel differently . 
For as soon as I begin to think about it , I feel great pain , and am dismayed . 
And if it can be that sickness brings delight , then my trouble and joy are one , and in my illness consists my health . 
So I do not know why I complain , for I know not whence my trouble comes , unless it is caused by my desire . 
Nurse , tell me now its name , nature , and character . 
But understand well that I have no desire to be cured of it , for my distress is very dear to me . 
The nurse , who was expert in this matter , thus replies to her Have no fear , for I will tell you at once the name of your malady . 
You are in love , then , as I can prove to you , for I find no pleasure in any malady save only in love . 
All other sickness is always bad and horrible , but love is sweet and peaceable . 
You are in love of that I am sure , nor do I see any wrong in that . 
But I shall consider it very wrong , if through some childish folly you conceal from me your heart . 
Nurse , there is no need of your speaking so . 
But first I must be sure and certain that under no circumstances will you speak of it to any living soul . 
In that case , Nurse , I shall be cured . 
But the emperor is giving me in marriage , wherefore I grieve and am sorrowful for he who has won my heart is the nephew of him whom I must take . 
And though he may find joy in me , yet is my joy forever lost , and no respite is possible . 
I could never bring myself to lead the life that Iseut led . 
Such love as hers was far too base for her body belonged to two , whereas her heart was possessed by one . 
Thus all her life was spent , refusing her favours to neither one . 
But mine is fixed on one object , and under no circumstances will there be any sharing of my body and heart . 
Never will my body be portioned out between two shareholders . 
Who has the heart has the body , too , and may bid all others stand aside . 
But I cannot clearly see how he whom I love can have my body when my father gives me to another , and his will I do not dare resist . 
And when this other is lord of my body , and does something which displeases me , it is not right for me to summon another to my aid . 
Nor can this man marry a wife without breaking his plighted word for , unless injustice be done , Cliges is to have the empire after his uncle's death . 
But I should be well served by you , if you were so skilful as to present him , to whom I am pledged and engaged , from having any claim upon me . 
For now , if he should marry me his promise would be broken . 
But Cliges is so dear to me that I would rather be under ground than that he should ever lose through me a penny of the fortune which should be his . 
May never a child be born to me to cause his disinheritance ! Nurse , now do your best , and I will always be your slave . 
Thus he will have his sport with you when asleep , he will think he is awake . 
The maiden is highly pleased and delighted by the nurse's kindness and offer of help . 
So the maiden believes her nurse , and puts full confidence in her . 
One promises to the other , and gives her word , that this plot shall be kept so secret as never to be revealed . 
At this point their conversation ceases , and the next morning the emperor summons his daughter . 
At his command she goes to him . 
But why should I weary you with details ? The two emperors have so settled the matter that the marriage is solemnised , and joy reigns in the palace . 
But I do not wish to stop to describe all this in detail . 
Rather will I address myself to Thessala , as she diligently prepares and tempers her potions . 
Thessala steeps her drink , putting in spices in abundance to sweeten and temper it . 
After having well beaten and mixed it , she strains it clear , with no sharp or bitter taste , for the spices she puts in give it a sweet and pleasant fragrance . 
When the potion was prepared , the day had drawn to a close , the tables were set for supper , and the cloths were spread . 
But Thessala delays the supper , because she must discover by what device and what agent she can have the potion served . 
At supper , finally , all were seated , and more than six dishes had been passed , and Cliges served behind his uncle's place . 
Thessala , as she watches him , thinks how ill he serves his own interests , and how he is assisting in his own disinheritance , and the thought torments and worries her . 
Then in her kindness she conceives the plan of having the potion served by him to whom it will bring both joy and honour . 
So Thessala summoned Cliges and when he had come to her , he asked her why she had sent for him . 
I think he cannot fail to relish it , for he never has tasted a better drink or one that has cost so much . 
And I warn you , take good care to let no one else drink of it , for there is but a little of it . 
If by chance he should inquire , you can satisfy him with this reply . 
When he heard that advantage would come to him , he took the potion and went away , for he did not know there was any harm in it . 
He set it in a crystal cup before the emperor , who took it without question , trusting in his nephew . 
And by the time they left the tables , the emperor had drunk so much of the pleasing drink that he can never escape it influence . 
Every night he will sleep under its influence , and its effects will be such that he will think he is awake when sound asleep . 
Now the emperor has been deceived . 
Many bishops and abbots were present to bless and hallow the marriage bed . 
When the time came to retire , the emperor , as was his right , lay beside his wife that night . 
As was his right but the statement is inexact , for he neither kissed nor fondled her , yet they lay together in one bed . 
At first the maiden trembled with fear and anxiety lest the potion should not act . 
But it has so mastered him that he will never desire her or any other woman except in his sleep . 
But when asleep he will have such sport with her as one may have in dreams , and he will think the dream is true . 
Nevertheless , she is on her guard , and at first , holds aloof from him , so that he cannot approach her . 
But now he must needs fall asleep then he sleeps and dreams , though , the senses are awake , and he exerts himself to win the favours of the maid . 
while she , realising the danger , defends her virginity . 
He woos her and calls her gently his sweetheart , and thinks he possesses her , but in vain . 
But he is gratified by this vain semblance , embracing , kissing , and fondling an empty thing , seeing and speaking to no purpose , struggling and striving without effect . 
Surely the potion was effective in thus possessing and mastering him . 
All his pains are of no avail , as he thinks and is persuaded that the fortress is won . 
Thus he thinks and is convinced , when he desists after his vain efforts . 
But now I may say once for all that his satisfaction was never more than this . 
For while he is on his journey home , the duke , to whom his bride had been betrothed , will appear upon the scene . 
The emperor did not tarry long after the marriage , but left Cologne in high spirits . 
The German emperor escorted him with a numerous company , fearing and dreading the force of the Duke of Saxony . 
The two emperors pursued their journey until they were beyond Regensburg , where one evening they were encamped in a meadow by the Danube . 
The Greeks were in their tents in the fields bordering upon the Black Forest . 
Opposite to them the Saxons were lodged , spying upon them . 
The duke's nephew stood alone upon a hill , whence he could reconnoitre for a chance to inflict some loss or harm on the enemy . 
From that point of vantage he espied Cliges with three of his young men disporting themselves with lances and shields , eager for a conflict and shock of arms . 
If he could get the chance the duke's nephew would gladly attack them and do them harm . 
Cliges , bending over , avoids the lance which passed him , inflicting only a slight hurt . 
When Cliges felt himself wounded , he charged the youth , and struck him with such force that he drove his lance quite through his heart , and stretched him dead . 
Then all the Saxons in fear of him betook themselves to flight through the woods . 
And Cliges , ignorant of the ambuscade , courageously but imprudently leaving his companions behind , pursues them to the place where the duke's troops were in force preparing to attack the Greeks . 
Then a knight made boast that if he can find the guilty man , he will present him with Cliges' head . 
And the emperor ordered to horse the Greeks and Germans in one band . 
Soon all through the camp the knights are arming and mounting . 
Meanwhile Cliges is hotly pursued by his enemy , all armed and with helmet closed . 
Cliges , who never wished to be numbered among the coward and craven hearted , notices that he comes alone . 
If I do not carry away thy head with me , I am not worth a counterfeit besant . 
I must make of it a present to the duke , and will accept no other forfeit . 
In return for his nephew , I shall make such restitution that he will profit by the exchange . 
Cliges hears him reproaching him thus boldly and with impudence . 
Vassal , he says , be on your guard ! For I will defend my head , and you shall not get it without my leave . 
The other missed his blow , while Cliges struck him with such force that horse and rider went down together in one heap . 
The horse fell upon him so heavily that he shattered completely one of his legs . 
Cliges dismounted on the greensward and disarmed him . 
When he had disarmed him , he appropriated his weapons , and cut off his enemy's head with the sword which had just now been his . 
Now the fierce and cruel struggles will soon begin between the Saxons and the Greeks . 
As soon as Cliges sees his men advancing , he betakes himself toward the Saxons , his own men hotly pursuing him , and not knowing him in his disguise . 
It is no wonder that his uncle is in despair and fear , when he sees the head he is carrying off . 
So all the host pursue him fast , while Cliges leads them on to provoke a fight , until the Saxons see him drawing near . 
But they , too , are quite misled by the arms with which he has armed and equipped himself . 
Now , though he was braver than a lion , he was no stronger than any other man . 
Both parties think that he is dead , and while the Saxons rejoice , the Greeks and Germans grieve . 
But before long the truth will out . 
Come on , my bold and hardy knights ! Let none hold back , for the first joust is already won ! He is a coward who does not relish such a dish . 
The emperor's joy was great when he heard the voice of his nephew Cliges summoning and exhorting them he was greatly pleased and comforted . 
But the duke is greatly chagrined now when he sees he is betrayed , unless his force should prove the stronger . 
While he draws together his troops in serried lines , the Greeks do the same , and pressing them close , attack and rush upon them . 
On both sides lances are lowered as they meet for the proper reception of a hostile host . 
At the first shock shields are pierced and lances shattered , girths are cut and stirrups broken , while the horses of those who fall to earth are left without a rider . 
Cliges was skilful on horseback , and sits straight in his saddle without shaking or losing his balance . 
But the duke has lost his seat , and in spite of himself quits the saddle bows . 
Cliges struggled and strove to capture him and carry him away , but his strength did not suffice , for the Saxons were around about fighting to rescue him . 
The steed was an Arabian . 
The Greeks and Germans are overjoyed to see Cliges on such a mount , for they had already remarked the excellence and beauty of the Arab steed . 
But they were not on their guard against an ambuscade and before they are aware of it great damage will be done . 
A spy came to the duke , bringing him welcome news . 
Duke , says the spy , not a man remains in all the encampment of the Greeks who is able to defend himself . 
If thou wilt take my word for it , now is the time to have the emperor's daughter seized , while the Greeks are seen intent upon the battle and the strife . 
Lend me a hundred of thy knights , and I will put the lady in their hands . 
At this the duke is highly pleased . 
After carrying her some distance from the tents , they send her on under escort of twelve of their number whom they accompany but a short distance . 
While the twelve led the damsel on , the others went to tell the duke how successful they had been . 
The duke's desire being now satisfied , he at once makes a truce with the Greeks until next day . 
The truce was sworn by both parties . 
The duke's men then turned back , while the Greeks without delay repaired each man to his own tent . 
Let us rein in a little for he has left the troops and is riding hard after us alone . 
Every man thinks that so it is . 
They all want to turn back to meet him , but each one wishes to go alone . 
Meanwhile , Cliges must needs descend a deep valley between two mountains . 
He would never have recognised their blazons , if they had not come to meet him , or if they had not awaited him . 
Six of the twelve come to meet him in an encounter they will soon regret . 
The other six stay with the damsel , leading her gently at a walk and easy jog . 
The Greeks shall not get her now , for she shall be placed in thy hands . 
When Cliges heard the words this fellow shouts , his heart is not gay rather is it strange that he does not lose his wits . 
He would rather die than not win her back . 
In his trouble he feels great wrath , which gives him the courage he requires . 
He urges and spurs the Arab steed , and rushes to give the Saxon such a blow upon his painted shield that without exaggeration , he makes his heart feel the lance . 
As he takes them thus individually , no one receives another's aid . 
He makes a rush at the second one , who , like the first , thought to give him joy by telling him of his own evil fate . 
But Cliges has no concern to heed his talk and idle charter . 
Thrusting his lance into his body so that the blood spurts out when it is withdrawn , he deprives him of life and the gift of speech . 
After these two he meets the third , who expects to find him in good humour and to make him rejoice over his own mischance . 
To the fourth he gives such a blow that he leaves him fainting on the field . 
After the fourth he goes at the fifth , and after him he attacks the sixth . 
None of them could defend himself , but each was left silent and mute . 
He stood in less fear of the others now , and more hardily pressed after them , taking no further thought of the six dead men . 
Feeling no further care for them , he starts to present a debt of shame and woe to the others who are leading the maid away . 
He caught up with them , and made such an onslaught upon them as a hungry and ravenous wolf makes when leaping upon its prey . 
Now he feels his luck has come , when he can display his chivalry and bravery openly before her who is his very life . 
And they both fall in such distress , being wounded in the body , that they have no power to rise again and do him any harm or ill . 
The other four in bitter rage join in an attack upon Cliges but he neither quails nor trembles , and they are unable to dislodge him from his seat . 
Fenice , who witnesses what transpires , does not know yet that this is Cliges . 
She wishes that it were he , indeed , but because of the present danger she says to herself that she would not have him there . 
Thus , doubly she shows the devotion of a sweetheart , fearing at once his death , and desiring that honour may be his . 
And Cliges sword in hand attacks the other three , who face him bravely and puncture and split his shield . 
But they are unable to lay hands upon him , or to pierce the meshes of his hauberk . 
And whatever Cliges reaches cannot stand against his blow , but must needs be split and torn apart for he turns faster than a top driven and lashed by the whip . 
Boldness and love , which holds him enthralled , make him eager for the fray . 
But before this fellow left Cliges , he begged him to tell him his name , which later he repeated to the duke , thus rousing his bitter ire . 
Now bad luck had fallen to the duke , who was in great distress and grief . 
And Cliges takes back Fenice , whose love torments and troubles him . 
But they so fear to be refused that they dare not reveal their hearts . 
For his part , he fears lest she will not accept his love , whereas she , too , would have spoken out had she not feared to be rejected . 
In spite of this , the eyes of each reveal the hidden thought , if only they had heeded this evidence . 
They converse by glance of eye , but their tongues are so cowardly that they dare not speak in any wise of the love which possesses them . 
The servant who does not fear his master ought not to remain in his employ nor do his service . 
The servant ought to tremble with fear when his master calls or summons him . 
Such is my argument in refutation , for where fear is absent love is not to be mentioned . 
Whoever would love must needs feel fear , for otherwise he cannot be in love . 
But let him fear only her whom he loves , and for her sake be brave against all others . 
Then if he stands in awe of his lady love Cliges is guilty of nothing wrong . 
Even so , he would not have failed to speak straightway with her of love , whatever the outcome might have been , had it not been that she was his uncle's wife . 
This causes the festering of his wound , and it torments and pains him the more because he dares not utter what he fain would say . 
Thus they make their way back to their own people , and if they speak of anything it is nothing of much concern . 
Each seated on a white horse , they rode rapidly toward the camp , which was plunged in great sorrow . 
The whole army is beside itself with grief , but they are altogether wrong in supposing Cliges to be dead hence their bitter and poignant grief . 
And for Fenice , too , they are in dismay , thinking never to win her back again . 
Thus , for her and him the whole army is in great distress . 
But soon upon their return the whole affair will change its aspect for now they have reached the camp again , and have quickly changed the grief to joy . 
Joy returns and sorrow flees . 
All the troops come together and sally forth to welcome them . 
Cliges tells them , and , as they listen , they are amazed and are loud in their praises of his courage and devotion . 
The messenger delivered his message so well in both languages that all could understand it . 
The entire army was in an uproar , saying that may God forbid that Cliges ever engage in the battle . 
And if the right to fight should be denied him , then he will never again serve for a single day his uncle's cause and honour . 
And yet I know you to be so confident of yourself that I dare not ever refuse anything that you choose to ask of me . 
Be assured that , merely to gratify you , it should be done but if my request has any power , you would never assume this task . 
The emperor weeps with pity , while Cliges sheds tears of joy when the permission to fight is granted him . 
Many a tear was shed that day , and no respite or delay was asked . 
Before the hour of prime , by the duke's own messenger the challenge to battle was sent back to him accepted as he had proposed . 
The duke , who thinks and confidently trusts that Cliges will be unable to stave off death and defeat at his hands , has himself quickly armed . 
Cliges , who is anxious for the fight , feels no concern as to how he shall defend himself . 
He asks the emperor for his arms , and desires him to dub him a knight . 
So the emperor generously gives him his arms , and he takes them , his heart being keen for the battle which he anticipates with joy and eagerness . 
No time is lost in arming him . 
And when he was armed from head to foot , the emperor , all sorrowing , girds the sword upon his side . 
All his armour was white , and the steed , and the harness , too , was all whiter than any snow . 
When this had been agreed upon , they came together , each yearning ardently for the glory he hopes to win and for the joy of victory . 
But before a single blow was dealt , the empress has herself borne thither , solicitous for Cliges' fate . 
It seems to her that if he dies , she , too , must needs do so . 
No comfort can avail to keep her from joining him in death , for , without him , life has no joys for her . 
But not being wounded , they quickly get upon their feet and attack each other without delay . 
Upon their resonant helmets they play such a tune with swords that it seems to those who are looking on that the helmets are on fire and send forth sparks . 
But the duke is much chagrined with anger and discomfiture when he fails to defeat and slay Cliges in the first assault . 
Such a marvellously great and mighty blow he deals him that he falls at his feet upon his knee . 
When this blow brought Cliges down , the emperor was struck with fear , and would have been no more dismayed had he himself been beneath the shield . 
Nor could Fenice in her fear longer contain herself , whatever the effect might be , from crying God help him ! as loud as she could . 
But that was the only word she uttered , for straightway her voice failed her , and she fell forward upon her face , which was somewhat wounded by the fall . 
Two high nobles raised her up and supported her upon her feet until she returned to consciousness . 
But in spite of her countenance , none who saw her guessed why she had swooned . 
Cliges heard , and well understood , the sound of Fenice's cry . 
For now he found him more fierce for the fray , stronger and more agile and energetic than when at first they came together . 
And because he feared his onslaught , he cried Young man , so help me God , I see thou art brave and very bold . 
If it were not for my nephew now , whom I shall never more forget , I would gladly make peace with thee , and leave thy quarrel without interfering in it more . 
Your nephew was not wise to become angrily embroiled with me . 
You may be sure that I shall treat you in like fashion , if I get the chance , unless you agree to my terms of peace . 
The duke , to whom it seems that Cliges' vigour is steadily growing , thinks that he had better desist in mid career before he is utterly undone . 
Nevertheless , he does not openly give in , but says Young man , I see thou art skilful and alert and not lacking in courage . 
But if thou art aware of honour's worth , it will always be a glorious thing for thee to have withstood me for two rounds at arms . 
So now my heart and feeling bid me let thee have thy way , and no longer fight with thee . 
Duke , says Cliges , that will not do . 
In the hearing of all you must repeat those words , for it shall never be said and noised abroad that you let me off and had mercy on me . 
In the hearing of all those who are gathered here , you must repeat your words , if you wish to be reconciled with me . 
So the duke repeats his words in the hearing of all . 
Then they make peace and are reconciled . 
But however the matter be regarded Cliges had all the honour and glory of it , and the Greeks were greatly pleased . 
The emperor of Germany no longer follows and convoys them . 
Taking leave o the Greek troops and of his daughter and Cliges , and finally of the emperor , he stayed behind in Germany . 
And the emperor of the Greeks goes off happily and in joyous mood . 
Cliges , brave and courteous , calls to mind his sire's command . 
So he presents himself before the emperor , and requests that he consent to let him go to Britain to see his uncle and his friends . 
Gently he proffered his request . 
But his uncle refused , when he had listened to the request he made . 
Fair nephew , he said , it is not my will that you should wish to leave me . 
I shall never give you without regret this permission to go away . 
For it is my pleasure and desire that you should be my companion and lord , with me , of all my empire . 
Now Cliges hears something that does not suit him when his uncle refuses the prayer and request he made . 
They put gold to the test when they wish to learn if it is fine . 
And so it is my wish , in brief , to try to prove myself , wherever I can find the test . 
In Britain , if I am brave , I can apply myself to the whetstone and to the real true test , whereby my prowess shall be proved . 
In Britain are the gentlemen whom honour and prowess distinguish . 
And he who wishes to win honour should associate himself with them , for honour is won and gained by him who associates with gentlemen . 
Fair nephew , I will give you leave , seeing you are so disposed that I cannot keep you back either by force or prayer of mine . 
Now since prayer , prohibition , and force do not avail , may God give you the desire and inclination promptly to return . 
I wish you to take with you more than a bushel of gold and silver , and I will give for your pleasure such horses as you may choose . 
He had no sooner spoken than Cliges bowed before him . 
All that the emperor , mentioned and promised him was straightway brought thither . 
Cliges took all the money and companions that he wished and needed . 
For his personal use he took four horses of different colours one white , one sorrel , one fallow red , and one black . 
But I must have passed over something which it is not proper to omit . 
Cliges goes to ask and obtain leave to depart from his sweetheart Fenice for he wishes to commend her to God's safe keeping . 
And Fenice , who timidly and fearfully looks at him , does not know the occasion of his coming , and speaks to him with difficulty . 
Rise , friend and fair sir ! Sit here beside me . 
and weep no more , and tell me what your pleasure is . 
Lady , what shall I say , and what leave unsaid ? I come to ask your leave . 
Leave ? To do what ? Lady , I must go off to Britain . 
Then tell me what your business is , before I give you leave to go . 
Lady , my father , before he departed this life and died , begged me not to fail to go to Britain as soon as I should be made a knight . 
I should not wish for any reason to disregard his command . 
I must not falter until I have accomplished the journey . 
It is a long road from here to Greece , and if I should go thither , the journey would be too long from Constantinople to Britain . 
But it is right that I should ask leave from you to whom I altogether belong . 
Many a covert sigh and sob marked the separation . 
But the eyes of none were keen enough , nor the ears of any sharp enough , to learn from what he saw and heard that there was any love between these two . 
Cliges , in spite of the grief he felt , took his leave at the first opportunity . 
He is full of thought as he goes away , and so are the emperor and many others who stay behind . 
But more than all the others , Fenice is pensive she finds no bottom or bound to the reflections which occupy her , so abundantly are her cares multiplied . 
She was still oppressed with thought when she arrived in Greece . 
If he should get well , she would recover too , but he will never be its victim without her being so as well . 
Her trouble appears in her pale and changed colour for the fresh , clear , and radiant colour which Nature had given her is now a stranger to her face . 
She often weeps and often sighs . 
Little she cares for her empire and for the riches that are hers . 
All this is sweet and pleasant for her to remember and think about . 
This word alone sustains and nourishes her , and assuages all her pain . 
She cares to eat and drink of no other dish or beverage , for when the two lovers came to part , Cliges had said he was altogether hers . 
Under any other lock she would not dare to store this treasure . 
Nowhere could it be lodged so well as in her own bosom . 
She will never leave it exposed at any price , being in such fear of robbers and thieves . 
But she feels no confidence in the matter , so she worries and strives to find and hold some ground on which to stand , interpreting the situation in divers ways . 
For if he loves me not , at least he does not fear me . 
I hope that love which gives me to him will in return give him to me . 
So I do not know what to think , for it might well turn out that he said it just to flatter me . 
Yet I saw his colour change , and I saw him weeping piteously . 
In my judgment , the tears and his face confused and pale were not produced by treachery , nor were they the fruits of trickery . 
Those eyes from which I saw tears roll down were not guilty of falsehood . 
Signs enough of love I saw , if I know anything about it . 
Yes , in an evil hour I thought of love woe is me that I ever learned it , for the experience has been bitter . 
Has it indeed ? Yes , verily . 
In truth I have been ill treated by him who has my heart in his keeping . 
He who robs me and takes what is mine cannot love me , of that I am sure . 
But am I sure ? Why then did he weep ? Why ? It was not in vain , for there was cause enough . 
I must not assume that I was the cause of it , for one is always loath to leave people whom one loves and knows . 
So it is not strange if he was sorry and grieved and if he wept when he left some one whom he knew . 
But he who gave him this advice to go and dwell in Britain could not have smitten me more effectively . 
He is cut to the quick who loses his heart . 
He who deserves it , should be treated ill but I have never deserved such treatment . 
Alas , unhappy one , why has Cliges killed me when I am innocent ? But I am unjust to accuse him thus without cause . 
Surely Cliges would never have deserted me if his heart were like mine . 
I am sure his heart is not like mine . 
But , after all , to tell the truth , they are very different and contrary . 
But what reference has that to me ? My heart and service are no concern to him . 
This arrangement distresses me , that one is master of us both . 
Why is not my heart as independent as his ? Then their power would be equalised . 
My heart is now a prisoner , unable to move itself unless his moves as well . 
And whether his heart wanders or stays still , mine must needs prepare to follow him in his train . 
Let it stay there ! I have no desire to dislodge it , but rather wish that it tarry with its lord until he feel some pity for it . 
For rather over there than here ought he to have mercy on his servant , because they are both in a foreign land . 
If my heart knows well the language of flattery , as is necessary for the courtier , it will be rich ere it comes back . 
That man does not know himself who takes another's word about qualities which he does not possess . 
And if his master is pleased to lie , the servant is all ready with his consent , and will never be backward in averring that all his master says is true . 
He who frequents courts and lords must ever be ready with a lie . 
So , too , must my heart do if it would find favour with its lord . 
Let it flatter and be obsequious . 
But this torment is her delight , of which she can never grow weary . 
And Cliges now has crossed the sea and come to Wallingford . 
There he took expensive quarters in great state . 
But his thoughts are always of Fenice , not forgetting her for a single hour . 
While he delays and tarries there , his men , acting under his instructions , made diligent inquiries . 
They were informed that King Arthur's barons and the King in person had appointed a tourney to be held in the plain before Oxford , which lies close to Wallingford . 
There the struggle was arranged , and it was to last four days . 
But Cliges will have abundant time to prepare himself if in the meantime he needs anything , for more than a fortnight must elapse before the tournament begins . 
The squires start at once and come to London , where they find available everything they need . 
Having finished this errand , they return at once without losing any time . 
When the arms they had brought were shown to Cliges he was well pleased with them . 
He ordered them to be set away and concealed , together with those which the emperor had given him by the Danube , when he knighted him . 
On the day which had been agreed upon , the nobles of renown came together . 
King Arthur , with all his men whom he had selected from among the best , took up his position at Oxford , while most of the knights ranged themselves near Wallingford . 
But in this case no one dares to advance and confront him for the joust . 
There is none who does not hold back . 
And there are some who ask Why do these knights of ours delay , without stepping forward from the ranks ? Some one will surely soon begin . 
able to stand beside the best three in the world . 
Who is he , then ? Why , don't you see ? It is Sagremor the Wild . 
Is it he ? It surely is . 
Cliges listens and hears what they say , as he sits on his horse Morel , clad in armour blacker than a mulberry for all his armour was black . 
But he must be a fool to undertake of his own free will to joust with one of the most valiant knights to be found in all the land . 
While thus they talk , the two contestants give their horses rein without delay , for they are very eager and keen to come together in the fight . 
Cliges strikes him so that he crushes the shield against his arm , and the arm against his body , whereupon Sagremor falls full length . 
Cliges goes unerringly and bids him declare himself his prisoner , which Sagremor does at once . 
Now the tourney is fairly begun , and adversaries meet in rivalry . 
Cliges rushes about the field , seeking adversaries with whom to joust , but not a knight presents himself whom he does not cast down or take prisoner . 
He excels in glory , all the knights on either side , for wherever he goes to battle , there the fight is quickly ended . 
That man may be considered brave who holds his ground to joust with him , for it is more credit to dare face him than it is to defeat another knight . 
And if Cliges leads him away prisoner , for this at least he gains renown that he dared to wait and fight with him . 
Cliges wins the fame and glory of all the tournament . 
When evening came , he secretly repaired to his lodging place in order that none might have any words with him . 
And if any one asks and inquires where his lodging is , he cannot learn when he sees no sign of the black shield for which he seeks . 
By this ruse Cliges remains hidden in the town . 
And those who were his prisoners went from one end of the town to the other asking for the black knight , but none could give them any information . 
More than twenty young men seek him , whom the King sent out but Cliges so successfully concealed himself that they cannot find a trace of him . 
Upon my word , he says , I know not what they may say , but to me this seems a marvellous thing . 
Perchance it was a phantom that appeared in our midst . 
Thus the King spoke his mind , but he might as well have held his peace . 
That evening among all the barons there was much talk of the black knight , for indeed they spoke of nothing else . 
The next day they armed themselves again without summons and without request . 
Lancelot of the Lake , in whom there is no lack of courage , rides forth with lance upright to await a contestant in the first joust . 
Here comes Cliges tiding fast , greener than the grass of the field , and mounted on a fallow red steed , carrying its mane on the right hand side . 
As yet we know not who yesterday's victor was but we shall know to night who this man is . 
Each one makes reply I don't know him , nor did I ever see him , that I am aware . 
But he is fairer than he who fought yesterday , and fairer than Lancelot of the Lake . 
If this man rode armed in a bag and Lancelot in silver and gold , this man would still be fairer than he . 
Thus they all take Cliges' part . 
And the two champions drive their steeds together with all the force of spur . 
Cliges gives him such a blow upon the golden shield with the lion portrayed thereon that he knocks him down from his saddle and stands over him to receive his surrender . 
For Lancelot there was no help so he admitted himself his prisoner . 
Then the noise began afresh with the shock of breaking lances . 
Those who are on Cliges' side place all their confidence in him . 
For of those whom he challenges and strikes , there is none so strong but must fall from his horse to earth . 
Again that evening the knights whom he had captured sought for him , but without hearing any news of him . 
In their lodging places , most of those who speak of him do so with praise and admiration . 
The next day the gay and doughty knights return to the contest . 
From the Oxford side comes forth a vassal of great renown his name was Perceval of Wales . 
As soon as Cliges saw him start , and learned certainly who it was , when he had heard the name of Perceval he was very anxious to contest with him . 
He issued straightway from the ranks upon a Spanish sorrel steed , and completely clad in vermilion armour . 
Then all gaze at him , wondering more than ever before , and saying that they had never seen so perfect a knight . 
And the contestants without delay spur forward until their mighty blows land upon their shields . 
The lances , though they were short and stout , bend until they look like hoops . 
In the sight of all who were looking on , Cliges struck Perceval so hard that he knocked him from his horse and made him surrender without a long struggle or much ado . 
When Perceval had pledged his word then the joust began again , and the engagement became general . 
Every knight whom Cliges meets he forces to earth . 
Upon his shield , as upon an anvil , the others strike and pound , splitting and hewing it to bits . 
And all the best and most courtly knights would fain have made his acquaintance . 
Now it is Gawain's desire to measure his strength on the morrow with this strange knight who changes every day his arms , as well as his horse and harness . 
His moultings will soon be numerous if he continues thus each day , as is his custom , to discard his old and assume new plumage . 
Thus , when he thought of the sword and the lance respectively . 
Gawain disparaged and esteemed highly the prowess of his foe . 
In a moment they will both be on the field . 
For Cliges had no desire to hold back when he overheard the words of the men who said There goes Gawain , who is no weakling either on foot or ahorse . 
He is a man whom no one will attack . 
Both come to earth at once and draw their naked swords , while the others gather round to watch the battle . 
Then King Arthur stepped forward to separate them and establish peace . 
But before the truce was sworn , the white hauberks were badly torn and rent apart , the shields were cracked and hewed to bits , and the helmets crushed . 
So he stepped forward to separate them , saying Stop now ! Woe if another blow be struck ! Make peace now , and be good friends . 
Fair nephew Gawain , I make this request of you for without resentment and hate it is not becoming for a gentleman to continue to fight and defy his foe . 
But if this knight would consent to come to my court and join our sport it would not be to his sorrow or hurt . 
Nephew , make this request of him . 
Cliges has no desire to refuse , and gladly consents to go when the tourney is concluded . 
For now he has more than sufficiently carried out the injunction of his father . 
And the King says he has no desire that the tournament shall last too long , and that they can afford to stop at once . 
So the knights drew off , according to the wish and order of the King . 
Now that he is to follow in the royal suite , Cliges sends for all his armour . 
As soon as he can , he comes to court but first , he completely changed his gear , and came dressed in the style of the French . 
Escorting him into the middle of the hall , they led him to the King , where all ceased their words of compliment and praise . 
The time for the meal had come , and those whose duty it was hastened to set the tables . 
The tables in the hall were quickly spread , then while some took the towels , and others held the basins , they offered water to all who came . 
When all had washed , they took their seats . 
Of the meal I need not further speak , for the courses were as well supplied as if beef were selling at a penny . 
When all the courses had been served , the King no longer held his peace . 
Cliges replies It shall not be hid . 
He told and related to the King everything he wished to know . 
And when the King had heard it all , he embraced him , and made much of him , while all joined in greeting him . 
And when my lord Gawain learned the truth , he , more than the others , cordially welcomed him . 
Thus , all unite in saluting him , saying that he is very fair and brave . 
The King loves and honours him above all his nephews . 
But the love whose wound he bears gives him no peace or relief . 
The inclination of his heart keeps him fixed upon a single thought . 
To Fenice his thought harks back , who from afar afflicts his heart . 
The desire takes him to go back for he has been deprived too long of the sight of the most desired lady who was ever desired by any one . 
He will not prolong this privation , but prepares to return to Greece , and sets out , after taking leave . 
The King and my lord Gawain were grieved , I can well believe , when they could no longer detain him . 
But she makes him recompense in full for she pays him , as it were rent , the coin of her own heart , which is no less dear to her . 
But he is by no means sure of that , having no contract or agreement to show wherefore his anxiety is great . 
And she is in just as great distress , harried and tormented by love , taking no pleasure in aught she sees since that moment when she saw him last . 
The fact that she does not even know whether he be alive or not fills her heart with anguish . 
But Cliges draws nearer day by day , being fortunate in having favourable winds , until he joyfully comes to port before Constantinople . 
When the news reached the city , none need ask if the emperor was glad but a hundred times greater was the empress's joy . 
Cliges , with his company , having landed at Constantinople , has now returned to Greece . 
The richest and most noble men all come to meet him at the port . 
No words can ever tell the joy and honour and courteous service that were there displayed . 
But each one strove as best he might to do everything which he thought would please and gratify Cliges . 
By her side he took his seat , while the others moved away , so that no one might be seated near them and hear their words . 
First , Fenice spoke of Britain , and asked him about the character and appearance of my lord Gawain , until her words finally hit upon the subject which filled her with dread . 
She asked him if he had given his love to any dame or damsel in that land . 
Cliges was not obstinate or slow to respond to this demand , but he knew at once what reply to make as soon as she had put the question . 
Lady , he says , I was in love while there , but not with any one of that land . 
In Britain my body was without my heart , as a piece of bark without the wood . 
Since leaving Germany I have not known what became of my heart , except that it came here after you . 
My heart was here , and my body was there . 
It has not pleased me until now but at present I feel a certain joy and satisfaction , which , you may be sure , I would not lose for Pavia or Piacenza . 
From this joy I cannot wrest my heart , nor shall I ever use force in the attempt . 
Nothing but the bark is left in me , for I live and exist without a heart . 
I have never been in Britain , and yet without me my heart has been engaged in business there I know not what . 
Was it there while I was there ? Yes , but you were not aware of it . 
It was there as long as you were , and came away again with you . 
God ! I never saw it , nor knew it was there . 
God ! why did I not know it ? If I had been informed of this , surely , my lady , I would have borne it pleasant company . 
Lady , surely it came to you . 
To me ? Then it came to no strange place , for mine also went to you . 
Then , lady , according to what you say , our hearts are here with us now , for my heart is altogether in your hands . 
You in turn have mine , my friend so we are in perfect accord . 
And you may be sure , so help me God , that your uncle has never shared in me , for it was not my pleasure , and he could not . 
Never has he yet known me as Adam knew his wife . 
In error I am called a wife but I am sure that whoever calls me wife does not know that I am still a maid . 
But his exclusion has been complete . 
My heart is yours , and my body too , and from me no one shall ever learn how to practise villainy . 
For when my heart went over to you it presented you with the body too , and it made a pledge that none other should ever share in it . 
Love for you has wounded me so deep that I should never recover from it , any more than the sea can dry up . 
for then our love would not be honourable . 
And to morrow you shall tell me of the best plan you have devised , and I , too , will think of it . 
To morrow , as soon as I arise , come and speak with me then each of us will speak his mind , and we shall proceed to execute whatever seems best . 
As soon as Cliges heard her will he fully agreed with her , and said that would be the best thing to do . 
He leaves her happy , and goes off with a light heart himself . 
That night each one lies awake thinking over , with great delight , what the best plan will be . 
The next morning , as soon as they had arisen , they meet again to take counsel privately , as indeed they must . 
And if this plan does not meet with your favour , tell me what you think , for I am ready , whatever may happen , to abide by your decision . 
And everywhere all men and women would speak evil of our love . 
No one would believe , nor is it natural that they should do so , the truth of the matter . 
It is well to remember and observe the injunction of St . 
Paul if any one is unwilling to live chaste , St . 
Paul counsels him to act so that he shall receive no criticism , or blame , or reproach . 
I shall fall sick in a little while . 
And you in the meantime may plan some preparations for a place of burial . 
Never , my whole life long , do I wish to be served by other man than you . 
My lord and my servant you shall be whatever you do shall seem good to me and never shall I be mistress of any empire unless you are its master . 
Any wretched place , however dark and foul , will seem brighter to me than all these halls if you are with me . 
If I have you where I can see you , I shall be mistress of boundless treasure , and the world will belong to me . 
In this city there is an artisan who cuts and carves wonderful images there is no land where he is not known for the figures which he has shapen and carved and made . 
John is his name , and he is a serf o mine . 
No one could cope with John's best efforts in any art , however varied it might be . 
For , compared with him , they are all novices , and like a child with nurse . 
By imitating his handiwork the artisans of Antioch and Rome have learned all they know how to do and besides there is no more loyal man . 
And she replies So let it be . 
With her permission Cliges left the room and went away . 
And she sends for Thessala , her maid , whom she brought with her from her native land . 
Thessala came at once without delay , yet not knowing why she was summoned . 
When she asked Fenice privately what was her desire and pleasure , she concealed none of her intentions from her . 
Nurse , she said , I know full well that anything I tell you will go no further , for I have tried you thoroughly and have found you very prudent . 
I love you for all you have done for me . 
In all my troubles I appeal to you without seeking counsel elsewhere . 
You know why I lie awake , and what my thoughts and wishes are . 
My eyes behold only one object which pleases me , but I can have no pleasure or joy in it if I do not first buy it with a heavy price . 
For I have now found my peer and if I love him he loves me in return , and if I grieve he grieves too for my pain and sorrow . 
Now I must acquaint you with a plan and project upon which we two have privately agreed . 
She thinks that in no other way she could longer bear to live . 
But if she was sure that she would consent to lend her aid , the matter would be arranged in accordance with their wishes . 
But I am tired of waiting for my joy and luck . 
Then her nurse assured her that she would help her in every way , telling her to have no further fear . 
I am in your hands so think of my interests , and tell all the people who are here to betake themselves away , for I am ill , and they bother me . 
So , like a prudent woman , she said to them My lords , my lady is not well , and desires you all to go away . 
You are talking loud and making a noise , and the noise is disagreeable to her . 
She can get no rest or repose so long as you are in the room . 
I never remember her to have complained of such a sickness as this so violent and serious does it seem . 
So go away , and don't feel hurt . 
As soon as she had issued this command , they all quickly go away . 
But if I could trust thee in an affair I meditate , thou wouldst go for ever free , as well as the heirs which may be born of thee . 
John , in his desire for freedom , replies at once My lord , there is nothing I would not gladly do to see myself , my wife , and children free . 
Tell me what your orders are , for nothing can be so hard as to cause me any work or pain or be hard for me to execute . 
For that matter , even were it against my will , I must needs obey your commands and give up my own affairs . 
But I hold thee to be so loyal and prudent that I will reveal to thee all my thought . 
I am sure thou wilt observe my wishes , both by aiding me and holding thy peace . 
Truly , sire so , help me God ! Then Cliges speaks and explains to him openly the adventurous plan . 
This house , which he had built , he would show him , if he cared to go with him to the place where in absolute privacy he works and paints and carves . 
He would show him the finest and prettiest place that he had ever seen . 
Cliges replies Let us go thither then . 
Below the city , in a remote spot , John had expended much labour in the construction of a tower . 
Thither he conducted Cliges , leading him through the different storeys , which were decorated with fine painted pictures . 
He shows him the rooms and the fire places , taking him everywhere up and down . 
Cliges examines this lonely house where no one lives or has access . 
He passes from one room to another , until he thinks he has seen it all , and he is much pleased with the tower and says he thinks it is very fine . 
The lady will be comfortable there as long as she lives , for no one will know of her dwelling place . 
No sire , you are right she will never be discovered here . 
But do you think you have seen all of my tower and fair retreat ? There still remain rooms so concealed that no man could ever find them out . 
You must know that baths are not lacking here , nor anything else which a lady needs , and which I can think of or recall . 
The lady will be here at her ease . 
Below the level of the ground the tower widens out , as you will see , and you cannot anywhere find any entrance door . 
The door is made of hard stone with such skill and art that you cannot find the crack . 
Cliges says These are wonderful things I hear . 
Lead on and I will follow you , for I am anxious to see all this . 
Then John started on , taking Cliges by the hand , until he came to a smooth and polished door , all coloured and painted over . 
When John came to the wall , he stopped , holding Cliges by the right hand . 
Then John says that he shall see it at once , and that he will open a door in the wall for him . 
Sire , he says , of all the men God ever made , no one but us two has ever been where we are now . 
And you shall see presently how convenient the place is . 
My advice is that you choose this as your retreat , and that your sweetheart be lodged here . 
These quarters are good enough for such a guest for there are bedrooms , and bathrooms with hot water in the tubs , which comes through pipes under the ground . 
Whoever is looking for a comfortable place in which to establish and conceal his lady , would have to go a long way before he would find anything so charming . 
When you shall have explored it thoroughly you will find this place very suitable . 
Then John showed him everything , fine chambers and painted vaults , pointing out many examples of his work which pleased Cliges much . 
When they had examined the whole tower , Cliges said John , my friend , I set you free and all your descendants , and my life is absolutely in your hands . 
I desire that my sweetheart be here all alone , and that no one shall know of it excepting me and you and her . 
John makes answer I thank you , sire . 
Now we have been here long enough , and as we have nothing more to do , let us return . 
That is right , says Cliges , let us be gone . 
Then they go away , and leave the tower . 
When Cliges heard this talk he went in haste to the court . 
But she has told them all that she wishes no one to enter her room so long as her sickness maintains its grip with its accompanying pains in her heart and head . 
For Cliges' sake she is compelled to pass through great pain and peril . 
It distresses her that he does not come , for she has no desire to see any one but him . 
Cliges , however , will soon be there , to tell her of what he has seen and found . 
Cliges , though pleased with this , goes away with a sad face you would never see so woeful a countenance . 
To judge from his appearance he is very sad but within his heart is gay in anticipation of its joy . 
The empress , without being really ill , complains and pretends that she is sick . 
And the emperor , who has faith in her , ceases not to grieve , and summons a physician . 
But she will not allow any one to see her or touch her . 
The emperor may well feel chagrined when she says that she will never have but one doctor , who can easily restore her to health whenever it pleases him to do so . 
He can cause her to die or to live , and to him she trusts her health and life . 
They think that she refers to God but her meaning is very different , for she is thinking of no one but Cliges . 
He is her god who can bring her health , or who can cause her death . 
Thus the empress takes care that no physician shall examine her and more completely to deceive the emperor she refuses to eat or drink , until she grows all pale and blue . 
The doctors came into the hall and found upon examination that the urine was very bad and colourless , and each one said what he thought about it . 
This conclusion they reached privately , when the emperor asked and conjured them to tell him the truth . 
They reply that they have no confidence in her recovery , and that she cannot live past three o'clock but will yield up her soul before that time . 
When the emperor heard this , he almost fell unconscious to the floor , as well as many others who heard the news . 
Never did any people make such moan as there was then throughout the palace . 
However , I will speak no further of their grief but you shall hear of Thessala's activities how she mixes and brews the potion . 
She mixed and stirred it up , for she had provided herself a long time in advance with everything which she would need for the potion . 
A little before three o'clock she gives her the potion to drink . 
God's patience surely is too great when He suffers thee to have the power to break in pieces what belongs to Him . 
Now God ought to be wroth with thee , and cast thee out of thy bailiwick for thy impudence has been too great , as well as thy pride and disrespect . 
In the midst of the tears and cries , as the story runs , there arrived aged physicians from Salerno , where they had long sojourned . 
At the sight of the great mourning they stopped to ask and inquire the cause of the cries and tears why all the people are in such sorrow and distress . 
But Death cannot restrain herself from acting as her custom is . 
Every day , to the extent of her power , she blots out the best creature she can find . 
So she wishes to try her power , and in one body she has carried off more excellence than she has left behind . 
She would have done better to take the whole world , and leave alive and sound this prey which now she has carried off . 
Thus Death has deprived us all of life . 
Ah , God ! the doctors say , we know that Thou art wroth with this city because we did not reach here sooner . 
If we had arrived here yesterday , Death might have boasted of her strength if she could wrest her prey from us . 
Gentlemen , madame would not have allowed you at any price to see her or to exercise your skill . 
Of good physicians there was no lack , but madame would not permit any one of them to see her or to investigate her malady . 
No ? Truly , sirs , that she would not . 
Then they recalled the case of Solomon , who was so hated by his wife that she deceived him by feigning death . 
They think this woman has done the same . 
But if they could in any way bring about her cure , no one could make them lie or keep them from exposing the truth , if they discovered any trickery . 
So to the court they take their way , where there was such a noise and cry that you could not have heard God's thunder crash . 
The chief of these three doctors , who knew the most , drew near the bier . 
No one says to him Keep hands off , and no one tries to hold him back . 
He places his hand on her breast and side , and surely feels that life is still in the body he perceives and knows that well enough . 
He sees the emperor standing by , mad and tormented by his grief . 
Seeing him , he calls aloud Emperor , console thyself ! I am sure and plainly see that this lady is not dead . 
Leave off thy grief , and be comforted ! If I do not restore her alive to thee , thou mayst kill me or string me up . 
At once throughout the palace the noise is quieted and hushed . 
And the emperor bade the doctor tell him fully his orders and wishes , whatever they might be . 
I must examine in private the illness which afflicts the lady . 
These two doctors , who are my friends , will remain with me alone in the room , and let every one else go out . 
This order would have been opposed by Cliges , John , and Thessala but all the others who were there might have turned against them if they had tried to oppose his order . 
So they hold their peace and approve what they hear approved by the others , and leave the palace . 
We shall be very loyal to you , both in keeping our counsel and in helping you . 
Do not keep us talking here ! Since we put at your disposal our skill and service , you should surely not refuse . 
But their efforts are foolish , for not a word can they extract from her . 
We know that you are alive , and will not deign to speak to us . 
We know that you are feigning death , and would thus deceive the emperor . 
But it cannot be they have no success . 
Then they say that they must procure fire and lead , which they will melt and lay upon her hands , rather than fail in their efforts to make her speak . 
After securing a light and some lead they kindle a fire and melt the lead . 
Thus the miserable villains torment and afflict the lady , by taking the lead all boiling hot from the fire and pouring it into the palms of her hands . 
Yet , she holds her peace , and does not refuse to have her body beaten and maltreated by them . 
They bring clubs and hammers to smash and break down the door . 
Great was the noise and uproar as they battered and broke in the door . 
If now they can lay hands on the doctors , the latter will not have long to wait before they receive their full deserts . 
With a single rush the ladies enter the palace , and in the press is Thessala , who has no other aim than to reach her mistress . 
Beside the fire she finds her stripped , severely wounded and injured . 
Now the three doctors have received their gruesome reward at the hands of the ladies . 
But Cliges is terror stricken and filled with grief upon hearing of the pain and martyrdom which his sweetheart has endured for him . 
So he is in despair and despondency when Thessala comes , bringing with her a very precious ointment with which she has already gently rubbed the body and wounds of her mistress . 
When they laid her back in her bier the ladies wrapped her again in a cloth of Syrian stuff , leaving her face uncovered . 
All that night there is no abatement of the cries they raise unceasingly . 
All that night the grief continues . 
Now let the empress be laid in it and buried in some sacred place , for she , I think , is sanctified . 
You have spoken well , says the emperor she shall be buried yonder in my lord Saint Peter's Church , where bodies are wont to be interred . 
For before her death she made this request of me , that I should have her buried there . 
Now go about your task , and place your sepulchre in the best position in the cemetery , where it ought rightfully to be . 
John replies Very well , my lord . 
Another reason for doing this was that no one might perceive the mattress he had laid within the grave . 
Already Mass had been said for the dead in the churches and parishes , and the bells were tolling continuously as is proper for the dead . 
Orders are given to bring the body to be laid in the sepulchre , which John with all his skill has constructed so richly and handsomely . 
In all Constantinople none remains , whether small or great , who does not follow the body in tears , cursing and reproaching Death . 
And in this grief Cliges surely bears his part , as he suffers and laments more than all the others do , and it is strange he does not kill himself . 
When the coffin was in its place , and nothing else was in the grave , he sealed up tightly all the joints . 
When this was done , any one would have been skilful who , except by force or violence , could take away or loosen anything which John had put inside . 
Fenice lies in the sepulchre until the darkness of night came on . 
But thirty knights mount guard over her , and there are ten tapers burning there , which light up the place all about . 
The knights were weary and exhausted by the strain they had undergone so they ate and drank that night until they all fell sound asleep . 
He did not stop until he found John , who advises him as best he can . 
He furnishes him with arms , but he will never have any need of them . 
Once armed , they both spur to the cemetery . 
Cliges does not see how he can get in , for there is no passing through the gate . 
And yet , somehow he must pass through , for love bids him and drives him on . 
He tries the wall and climbs up , being strong and agile . 
Inside was a garden planted with trees , one of which stood so near the wall that it touched it . 
Now Cliges had what he needed , and after letting himself down by the tree , the first thing he did was to go to open the gate for John . 
Seeing the knights asleep , they extinguished all the lights , so that the place remained in darkness . 
And John now uncovers the grave and opens the coffin , taking care to do it no harm . 
Cliges steps into the grave and lifts out his Sweetheart , all weak and prostrate , whom he fondles , kisses , and embraces . 
He does not know whether to rejoice or regret that she does not stir or move . 
And John , as quickly as he could , closed up the sepulchre again , so that it was not apparent that any one had tampered with it . 
Then they betook themselves as fast as they could to the tower . 
But soon the time will come for the potion to lose its force . 
And Fenice , who hears his grief , struggles and strives for strength to comfort him by word or glance . 
Her heart almost bursts because of the sorrow which he shows . 
Ah Death ! he says , how mean thou art , to spare and reprieve all things despicable and vile to let them live on and endure . 
Sweetheart , then I am the death that has smitten you . 
Is not that wrong ? For it is my own life I have lost in you , and have preserved your life in me . 
For did not your health and life belong to me . 
sweet one ? And did not mine belong to you ? For I loved nothing excepting you , and our double existence was as one . 
At this she heaves a gentle sigh and whispers faintly Lover mine , I am not altogether dead , but very near it . 
I value my life but little now . 
I thought it a jest and a mere pretence but now I am indeed to be pitied , for death has not treated this as a jest . 
It will be a marvel if I escape alive . 
For the doctors have seriously wounded me , and broken my flesh and disfigured me . 
And yet , if it was possible for my nurse to come here , and if efforts were of any avail , she would restore me to health again . 
Do not worry , dear , about that , says Cliges , for this very night I will bring her here . 
Dear , let John go for her now . 
Thessala runs at once and , taking ointments , plaster , and remedies which she has prepared , she meets John again . 
Secretly they go out from the city , until they come straight to the tower . 
When Fenice sees her nurse , she feels already cured , because of the loving faith and trust she places in her . 
And Cliges greets her affectionately , and says Welcome , nurse , whom I love and prize . 
A fortnight will not pass before I make her so well that she was never before so lively and strong . 
While Thessala is busy with her remedies , John goes to provide the tower with everything that is necessary . 
He makes long stays there night and day . 
He orders John to guard the tower , so that no one shall enter against his will . 
Fenice now has no further cause to complain , for Thessala has completely cured her . 
If Cliges were Duke of Almeria , Morocco , or Tudela , he would not consider it all worth a holly berry compared with the joy which he now feels . 
Certainly Love did not debase itself when it joined these two , for it seems to them , when they embrace and kiss each other . 
that all the world must be better for their joy and happiness . 
Now ask me no more of this , for one can have no wish in which the other does not acquiesce . 
Thus they have but one desire , as if they two themselves were one . 
Fenice was in the tower , I believe , all that year and full two months of the next , until summer came again . 
Cliges was holding her tightly clasped with his arms about her waist and neck , and she held him in a like embrace , as she said Dear fair lover mine . 
A garden would do me good , in which I could disport myself . 
For more than fifteen months I have not seen the light of moon or sun . 
If possible , I would fain go out yonder into the daylight , for here in this tower I am confined . 
If there was a garden near , where I could go and amuse myself , it would often do me good . 
Then Cliges promises her to consult with John about it as soon as he can see him . 
At that very moment John came in , as he was often wont to do , and Cliges spoke to him of what Fenice desired . 
John replies All that she asks for is already provided and supplied . 
This tower is well equipped with what she wishes and requires . 
Then Fenice was very glad , and asked John to take her there , which he said he would very gladly do . 
Then John goes and opens a door , constructed in a fashion which I cannot properly describe . 
No one but John could have made it , and no one could have asserted that there was any door or window there so perfectly was it concealed . 
She passed out through the door into the garden , with its pleasures and delights . 
In the middle of the garden stood a grafted tree loaded with blooming flowers and leaves , and with a wide spreading top . 
Fenice desires no other place . 
Beneath the tree the turf is very pleasant and fine , and at noon , when it is hot , the sun will never be high enough for its rays to penetrate there . 
John had shown his skill in arranging and training the branches thus . 
There Fenice goes to enjoy herself , where they set up a bed for her by day . 
There they taste of joy and delight . 
And the garden is enclosed about with a high wall connected with the tower , so that nothing can enter there without first passing through the tower . 
having missed a lark , had flown away , and Bertrand thought how great his loss would be if he should lose his hunting bird . 
When he saw it come down and light in a garden beneath the tower he was glad , for he thought he could not lose it now . 
At once he goes and clambers up the wall until he succeeds in getting over it , when beneath the tree he sees Fenice and Cliges lying asleep and naked in close embrace . 
God ! said he , what has happened to me now ? What marvel is this I see ? Is that not Cliges ? It surely is . 
Is not that the empress with him there ? Nay , but it looks like her . 
Never did one thing so resemble another . 
Her nose , her mouth , and brow are like those of my lady the empress . 
Never did Nature make two creatures of such similitude . 
There is no feature in this woman here which I have not seen in my lady . 
If she were alive , I should say that it was certainly she herself . 
Just then a pear falls down and strikes close by Fenice's ear . 
She jumps and awakes and , seeing Bertrand , cries out aloud My dear , my dear , we are lost . 
If he escapes you , we are caught in a bad trap , for he will tell that he has seen us . 
Then Bertrand realised that it was the empress beyond any doubt . 
He sees the necessity of leaving at once , for Cliges had brought with him his sword into the garden , and had laid it down beside the bed . 
He jumped up now and grasped his sword , while Bertrand hastily took his leave . 
In spite of this , Bertrand got away , though badly wounded and maimed . 
Don't speak to me now , he says , but help me to mount my horse . 
No mention shall be made of this excepting to the emperor . 
He who thus has treated me must be , and doubtless is , in great terror for he is in great danger of his life . 
Then they set him upon his palfrey and lead him through the city , sorely grieved in their fright the while . 
After them more than twenty thousand others come , following them to the court . 
And all the people run together , each striving to be there first . 
The city is in a ferment of excitement some regard the news they hear as simple nonsense , others advise and urge the emperor to visit the tower himself . 
Great is the noise and confusion of the people who prepare to accompany him . 
And the emperor within the tower has John sought for and brought . 
He orders him to be bound and tied saying that he will have him hanged or burnt , and will have his ashes scattered wide . 
But I offer this as my excuse that a servant ought to refuse nothing when his lawful lord commands . 
Now , every one knows forsooth that I am his , and this tower is too . 
It is not , John . 
Mine , sire ? Yes , after him but neither do I belong to myself , nor have I anything which is mine , except what he pleased to bestow on me . 
And if you should think to say that my lord is guilty of having done you wrong , I am ready to take up his defence without any command from him . 
But I feel emboldened to proclaim openly what is on my mind , just as I have thought it out , for I know full well that I must die . 
So I will speak regardless of results . 
And if I am punished with death by you , and if I die wrongfully for his sake , and if he is still alive , he will avenge my death on you . 
Now go and do the best you can , for if I die you shall also die . 
The emperor trembles with wrath upon hearing the mocking words addressed to him by John . 
thou shalt have so much respite , until we find thy lord , who has done such wrong to me , though I loved him dearly and had no thought of defrauding him . 
Meanwhile , thou shalt stay in prison . 
If thou knowest what has become of him , tell me at once , I order thee . 
As a matter of fact , I do not know any more than you where they have gone , so help me God ! But there is no need for your jealousy . 
I do not so much fear your wrath that I should not say , so that all can hear , how you have been deceived , even my words are not believed . 
You were deceived and tricked by potion you drank on your wedding night . 
You ought not to find fault with me . 
I ought , indeed , to be burnt or hanged , were I to betray my lord or refuse to do his will . 
And he says that if he does not take vengeance for the shame and disgrace inflicted upon him by the traitor who has seduced his wife , he will never again be happy . 
Now quick ! he says , as far as Pavia , and from here to Germany , let no castle , town , or city remain in which search is not made . 
I will hold that man above all others dear who will bring to me captive the two of them . 
Now up and down , near and far , go diligently and search ! Then they started out with zeal and spent all that day in the search . 
But in the number Cliges had some friends , who , if they found them , would have led them to some hiding place rather than hale them back again . 
All that fortnight they exhausted themselves in a fruitless search . 
They seek repose in no town or city yet they have all they wish or desire , even more so than is usually the case . 
For all they need is procured for them by Thessala , who searches and scours and purveys for them . 
Nor is there any who hunts them now , for all have returned to their homes again . 
Meanwhile Cliges is not idle , but starts to find his uncle , King Arthur . 
Then Cliges did not forget to thank the King for the aid he offered him . 
The King sends out to seek and summon all the high barons of the land , and causes to be requisitioned and equipped ships , war vessels , boats , and barks . 
He has a hundred ships loaded and filled with shields , lances , bucklers , and armour fit for knights . 
The King makes such great preparations for the war that never did Caesar or Alexander make the like . 
He orders to assemble at his summons all England , and all Flanders , Normandy , France , and Brittany , and all the men as far as the Pyrenees . 
Already they were about to set sail , when messengers arrived from Greece who delayed the embarkation and kept the King and his people back . 
The messengers were high born men of Greece , who came in search for Cliges . 
and Constantinople is given to you by all those of your empire , because of the right you have to them . 
is dead of the grief he felt because he could not discover you . 
His grief was such that he lost his mind he would neither drink nor eat , but died like a man beside himself . 
Fair sire , now come back again ! For all your lords have sent for you . 
Greatly they desire and long for you , wishing to make you their emperor . 
Some there were that rejoiced at this and others there were who would have gladly seen their guests elsewhere , and the fleet make sail for Greece . 
But the expedition is given up , and the King dismisses his men , and the hosts depart to their homes again . 
And Cliges hurriedly makes haste in his desire to return to Greece . 
He has no wish to tarry . 
His preparations made , he took his leave of the King , and then of all his friends . 
and taking Fenice with him , he goes away . 
Both of them are crowned at once . 
And each day saw their love grow stronger he never doubted her , nor did she blame him for anything . 
She was never kept confined , as so many women have been who have lived since her time . 
Here ends the work of Chretien . 
ENDNOTES NOTE Endnotes supplied by Prof . 
Foerster are indicated by all other endnotes are supplied by W. W. Comfort . 
There is no English version corresponding to the old French Cliges . 
The English metrical romance Sir Cleges has nothing to do with the French romance . 
Ovid in Metamorphosis , vi . 
, relates how Tantalus at a feast to the gods offered them the shoulder of his own son . 
It is not certain , however , that Chretien is referring here to this slight episode of the Metamorphosis . 
This allusion is generally taken as evidence that the poet had written previously of the love of Tristan and Iseut . 
The story of Philomela or Philomena , familiar in Chaucer's Legende of Good Women , is told by Ovid in Metamorphosis , vi . 
Cretiens li Gois is cited by the author of the Ovide moralise as the author of the episode of Philomena incorporated in his long didactic poem . 
See C. de Boer , Philomena , conte raconte d'apres Ovide par Chretien de Troyes . 
The present cathedral of Beauvais is dedicated to St . 
Peter , and its construction was begun in . 
The earlier structure here referred to , destroyed in , probably was also dedicated to the same saint . 
The real kernal of the Cliges story , stripped of its lengthy introduction concerning Alexandre and Soredamors , is told in a few lines in Marques de Rome , p . 
, as one of the tales or exempla recounted by the Empress of Rome to the Emperor and the Seven Sages . 
No names are given except that of Cliges himself the version owes nothing to Chretien's poem , and seems to rest upon a story which the author may have heard orally . 
See Foerster's Einleitung to Cliges , p . 
This criticism of ignoble leisure on the part of a warrior is found also in Erec et Enide and Yvain . 
This allegorical tribute to largesse is quite in the spirit of the age . 
When professional poets lived upon the bounty of their patrons , it is not strange that their poetry should dwell upon the importance of generosity in their heroes . 
For an exhaustive collection of chastisements or enseignements , such as that here given to Alexandre by his father , see Eugen Altner , Ueber die chastiements in den altfranzosischen chansons de geste . 
, the peculiar georgraphy of this poem is distinctly Anglo Norman rather than Arthurian . 
Reviewed in Romania , xxii . 
Here begins one of those long dialogues , where one person is represented as taking both sides of an argument . 
This rhetorical device , so wearisome to modern readers , is used by Chretien preferably when some sentiment or deep emotion is to be portrayed . 
Ovid may well have suggested the device , but Ovid never abuses it as does the more prolix mediaeval poet . 
For the part playing by the eyes in mediaeval love sophistry , see J. F. Hanford , The Debate of Heart and Eye in Modern Language Notes , xxvi . 
and H. R. Lang , The Eyes as Generators of Love . 
For play upon words and for fanciful derivation of proper names in mediaeval romance literature , see the interesting article of Adolf Tobler in Vermischte Beitrage , ii . 
points out that Thomas used the same scene and the play upon the same words mer , amer , and amers in his Tristan and was later imitated by Gottfried von Strassburg . 
According to the th century troubadours , the shafts of Love entered the victim's body through the eyes , and thence pierced the heart . 
For fanciful derivation of proper names , cf . 
A. Tobler , Vermischte Beitrage , ii . 
Ganelon , the traitor in the Chanson de Roland , to whose charge is laid the defeat of Charlemagne's rear guard at Ronceval , became the arch traitor of mediaeval literature . 
It will be recalled that Dante places him in the lowest pit of Hell . 
For the ceremonies attendant upon the conferring of knighthood , see Karl Treis , Die Formalitaten des Ritterschlags in der altfranzosischen Epik . 
This conventional attitude of one engaged in thought or a prey to sadness has been referred to by G. L. Hamilton in Ztsch fur romanische Philologie , xxxiv . 
Many traitors in old French literature suffered the same punishments as Ganelon , and were drawn asunder by horses . 
The same rare words galerne and posterne occur in rhyme in the Roman de Thebes , . 
This qualified praise is often used in speaking of traitors and of Saracens . 
The failure to identify the warriors is due to the fact that the knights are totally encased in armour . 
A reference to the Roman de Thebes , circ . 
The disregard of Alis for his nephew Cliges is similar to that of King Mark for Tristan in another legend . 
In the latter , however , Tristan joins with the other courtiers in advising his uncle to marry , though he himself had been chosen heir to the throne by Mark . 
J. Bedier , Le Roman de Tristan , vols . 
Shakespeare , Othello , ii . 
L. Sudre , Les allusions a la legende de Tristan dans la litterature du moyen age , Romania , xv . 
Tristan was famed as a hunter , fencer , wrestler , and harpist . 
D. B. Easter , Magic Elements in the romans d'aventure and the romans bretons , p . 
A Jeanroy in Romania , xxxiii . 
note , says Quant au nom de Thessala , il doit venir de Lucain , tres lu dans les ecoles au XIIe siecle . 
See also G. Paris in Journal des Savants , , p . 
Thessala is mentioned in the Roman de la Violetta , v . 
, in company with Brangien of the Tristan legend . 
Medea , the wife of Jason , is the great sorceress of classic legend . 
This personage was regarded in the Middle Ages as an Emperor of Rome . 
This commonplace remark is quoted as a proverb of the rustic in Ipomedon , id . 
, , Roman de Mahomet , Roman de Renart , vi . 
Gower's Mirour de l'omme , , , etc . 
For this tournament and its parallels in folk lore , see Miss J. L. Weston , The Three Days' Tournament . 
against Foerster's unqualified opinion of the originality of Chretien in his use of this current description of a tournament , an opinion set forth in his Einleitung to Lancelot , pp . 
Note that Chretien here deliberately avoids such a list of knights as he introduces in Erec . 
It must be admitted that the text , which is offered by all but one MS . 
The reference , if any be intended , is not clear . 
Much has been made of this expression as intimating that Chretien wrote Cliges as a sort of disavowal of the immorality of his lost Tristan . 
Foerster , Cliges , p . 
, and Myrrha Borodine , La femme et l'amour au XXIe Seicle d'apres les poemes de Chretien de Troyes . 
G. Paris has ably defended another interpretation of the references in Cliges to the Tristan legend in Journal des Savants , , p . 
This curious moral teaching appears to be a perversion of three passages form St . 
H. Emecke , Chretien von Troyes als Personlichkeit und als Dichter . 
If Chretien alone gave to the charm of the form of a potion , it is in imitation of the love potion in Tristan . 
For many other references to the effect of herb potions , cf . 
A. Hertel , Verzauberte Oerlichkeiten und Gegenstande in der altfranzosische erzahlende Dichtung , p . 
, but it would be strange if he did not know such a distinguished predecessor . 
For the legend of Solomon deceived by his wife , see Foerster Cliges , p . 
, and G. Paris in Romania , ix . 
, and in Journal des Savants , , p . 
For an additional reference , add Ipomedon , . 
For an imitation of the following scene , see Hans Herzog in Germania , xxxi . 
Porz d'Espaingne refers to the passes in the Pyrenees which formed the entrance ways to Spain . 
The Cilician Gates in Xenophon's Anabasis . 
The court was at Carduel in Wales . 
When the meal was finished , the knights betook themselves whither they were summoned by the ladies , damsels , and maidens . 
But now its followers are few , having deserted it almost to a man , so that love is much abased . 
For lovers used to deserve to be considered courteous , brave , generous , and honourable . 
But now love is a laughing stock , for those who have no intelligence of it assert that they love , and in that they lie . 
Thus they utter a mockery and lie by boasting where they have no right . 
But let us leave those who are still alive , to speak of those of former time . 
For , I take it , a courteous man , though dead , is worth more than a living knave . 
And in connection with him we call to mind those goodly chosen knights who spent themselves for honour's sake . 
But this day it came about that the Queen detained him , and he remained so long at her side that he forgot himself and fell asleep . 
Calogrenant alone jumped up quickly when he saw her come . 
And I know that you are quite persuaded of your own excellence , for that is in keeping with your little sense . 
And of course it is natural that my lady should suppose that you surpass us all in courtesy and bravery . 
Really , Kay , the Queen then says , I think you would burst if you could not pour out the poison of which you are so full . 
You are troublesome and mean thus to annoy your companions . 
Lady , says Kay , if we are not better for your company , at least let us not lose by it . 
I am not aware that I said anything for which I ought to be accused , and so I pray you say no more . 
It is impolite and foolish to keep up a vain dispute . 
This argument should go no further , nor should any one try to make more of it . 
But since there must be no more high words , command him to continue the tale he had begun . 
Thereupon Calogrenant prepares to reply in this fashion My lord , little do I care about the quarrel , which matters little and affects me not . 
If you have vented your scorn on me , I shall never be harmed by it . 
You have often spoken insultingly , my lord Kay , to braver and better men than I , for you are given to this kind of thing . 
and gadflies sting , and bees will hum , and so a bore will torment and make a nuisance of himself . 
Lady , says Kay , all those who are here will be in your debt , for they are desirous to hear it out . 
Don't do it as a favour to me ! But by the faith you owe the King , your lord and mine , command him to continue , and you will do well . 
Calogrenant , the Queen then says , do not mind the attack of my lord Kay the seneschal . 
He is so accustomed to evil speech that one cannot punish him for it . 
Surely , lady , it is a very unwelcome command you lay upon me . 
Rather than tell any more of my tale to day , I would have one eye plucked out , if I did not fear your displeasure . 
Yet will I perform your behest , however distasteful it may be . 
Then since you will have it so , give heed . 
Let your heart and ears be mine . 
For words , though heard , are lost unless understood within the heart . 
Some men there are who give consent to what they hear but do not understand these men have the hearing alone . 
For the heart alone can receive it when it comes along , and shut it up within . 
The ears are the path and channel by which the voice can reach the heart , while the heart receives within the bosom the voice which enters through the ear . 
The road there was very bad , full of briars and thorns . 
In spite of the trouble and inconvenience , I followed the road and path . 
Almost the entire day I went thus riding until I emerged from the forest of Broceliande . 
I had no sooner saluted him than he came forward to hold my stirrup and invited me to dismount . 
I did so , for it was useless to deny that I was in need of a lodging place . 
Then he told me more than a hundred times at once that blessed was the road by which I had come thither . 
Meanwhile , we crossed the bridge , and passing through the gate , found ourselves in the courtyard . 
Upon this gong the vavasor struck three times with a hammer which hung on a post close by . 
Those who were upstairs in the house , upon hearing his voice and the sound , came out into the yard below . 
Some took my horse which the good vavasor was holding and I saw coming toward me a very fair and gentle maid . 
On looking at her narrowly I saw she was tall and slim and straight . 
This pleased me well , for I needed naught else to look upon . 
Then she took me to sit down in the prettiest little field , shut in by a wall all round about . 
But as ill luck would have it , when night came on , and the time for supper had arrived . 
The vavasor came to look for me . 
No more delay was possible , so I complied with his request . 
Of the supper I will only say that it was all after my heart , seeing that the damsel took her seat at the table just in front of me . 
Then , as a favour , he begged of me to return by way of his residence , if I could make it possible . 
So I said to him Right gladly , sire ! for a refusal would have been impolite , and that was the least I could do for such a host . 
My kind host and his dear daughter I commended to the Holy Spirit , and , after taking leave of all , I got away as soon as possible . 
The fellow leaped up straightway when he saw me drawing near . 
Then he gazed at me but spoke not a word , any more than a beast would have done . 
And I supposed that he had not his senses or was drunk . 
However , I made bold to say to him Come , let me know whether thou art a creature of good or not . 
And he replied I am a man . 
What kind of a man art thou ? Such as thou seest me to be I am by no means otherwise . 
What dost thou here ? I was here , tending these cattle in this wood . 
Wert thou really tending them ? By Saint Peter of Rome ! They know not the command of any man . 
I guess one cannot possibly guard wild beasts in a plain or wood or anywhere else unless they are tied or confined inside . 
Well , I tend and have control of these beasts so that they will never leave this neighbourhood . 
How dost thou do that ? Come , tell me now ! There is not one of them that dares to move when they see me coming . 
No one could venture here but me , for if he should go among them he would be straightway done to death . 
In this way I am master of my beasts . 
And now thou must tell me in turn what kind of a man thou art , and what thou seekest here . 
I am , as thou seest , a knight seeking for what I cannot find long have I sought without success . 
And what is this thou fain wouldst find ? Some adventure whereby to test my prowess and my bravery . 
Now I beg and urgently request thee to give me some counsel , if possible , concerning some adventure or marvellous thing . 
Says he Thou wilt have to do without , for I know nothing of adventure , nor did I ever hear tell of such . 
But if thou wouldst go to a certain spring here hard by and shouldst comply with the practice there , thou wouldst not easily come back again . 
Close by here thou canst easily find a path which will lead thee thither . 
If thou wouldst go aright , follow the straight path , otherwise thou mayst easily go astray among the many other paths . 
Thou shalt see the spring which boils , though the water is colder than marble . 
And beside the spring thou shalt find a massive stone , as thou shalt see , but whose nature I cannot explain , never having seen its like . 
On the other side a chapel stands , small , but very beautiful . 
I left the fellow then , after he had pointed our the way . 
It must have been after nine o'clock and might have been drawing on toward noon , when I espied the tree and the chapel . 
I can truly say that this tree was the finest pine that ever grew on earth . 
I do not believe that it ever rained so hard that a drop of water could penetrate it , but would rather drip from the outer branches . 
of the finest gold that was ever for sale in any fair . 
As for the spring , you may take my word that it was boiling like hot water . 
Now not one word will I say which is not true . 
The storm was so fierce and terrible that a hundred times I thought I should be killed by the bolts which fell about me and by the trees which were rent apart . 
Know that I was in great distress until the uproar was appeased . 
But God gave me such comfort that the storm did not continue long , and all the winds died down again . 
The winds dared not blow against God's will . 
And when I saw the air clear and serene I was filled with joy again . 
For I have observed that joy quickly causes trouble to be forgot . 
that not a branch or twig was to be seen which was not entirely covered with birds . 
I stayed there until I heard some knights coming , as I thought it seemed that there must be ten of them . 
But all the noise and commotion was made by the approach of a single knight . 
When I saw him coming on alone I quickly caught my steed and made no delay in mounting him . 
And the knight , as if with evil intent , came on swifter than an eagle , looking as fierce as a lion . 
From as far as his voice could reach he began to challenge me , and said Vassal , without provocation you have caused me shame and harm . 
If there was any quarrel between us you should first have challenged me , or at least sought justice before attacking me . 
But , sir vassal , if it be within my power , upon you shall fall the punishment for the damage which is evident . 
About me here lies the evidence of my woods destroyed . 
He who has suffered has the right to complain . 
And I have good reason to complain that you have driven me from my house with lightning bolt and rain . 
You have made trouble for me , and cursed be he who thinks it fair . 
But be assured that from this moment there shall be neither truce nor peace between us . 
At these words we rushed together , each one holding his shield well gripped and covering himself with it . 
You may be sure that I will tell the facts , in order to cover up my shame . 
His lance remained entire , being very heavy and bigger than any knight's lance I ever saw . 
He took my horse , but me he left , and started back by the way he came . 
And I , who knew not what to do , remained there in pain and with troubled thoughts . 
Seating myself beside the spring I rested there awhile , not daring to follow after the knight for fear of committing some rash act of madness . 
And , indeed , had I had the courage , I knew not what had become of him . 
Finally , it occurred to me that I would keep my promise to my host and would return by way of his dwelling . 
This idea pleased me , and so I did . 
I laid off all my arms in order to proceed more easily , and thus with shame I retraced my steps . 
When I reached his home that night , I found my host to be the same good natured and courteous man as I had before discovered him to be . 
I could not observe that either his daughter or he himself welcomed me any less gladly , or did me any less honour than they had done the night before . 
Thus I went and thus I returned , feeling , as I did so , deeply ashamed . 
So I have foolishly told you the story which I never wished to tell again . 
By my head , cries my lord Yvain , you are my own cousin german , and we ought to love each other well . 
But I must consider you as mad to have concealed this from me so long . 
If I call you mad , I beg you not to be incensed . 
For if I can , and if I obtain the leave , I shall go to avenge your shame . 
It is evident that we have dined , says Kay , with his ever ready speech there are more words in a pot full of wine than in a whole barrel of beer . 
They say that a cat is merry when full . 
There will be no provost or constable who will not gladly escort you . 
Damned be any tongue that never ceases to speak ill ! As for your tongue , it babbles so that it makes you hated everywhere . 
It cannot do you greater treachery . 
See here if it were mine , I would accuse it of treason . 
Any man that cannot be cured by punishment ought to be tied like a madman in front of the chancel in the church . 
Really , madame , says my lord Yvain , his impudence matters not to me . 
In every court my lord Kay has so much ability , knowledge , and worth that he will never be deaf or dumb . 
He has the wit to reply wisely and courteously to all that is mean , and this he has always done . 
You well know if I lie in saying so . 
But I have no desire to dispute or to begin our foolishness again . 
For he who deals the first blow does not always win the fight , but rather he who gains revenge . 
He who fights with his companion had better fight against some stranger . 
I do not wish to be like the hound that stiffens up and growls when another dog yaps at him . 
While they were talking thus , the King came out of his room where he had been all this time asleep . 
And when the knights saw him they all sprang to their feet before him , but he made them at once sit down again . 
He took his place beside the Queen , who repeated to him word for word , with her customary skill , the story of Calogrenant . 
All the court thought well of this , for the knights and the young bachelors were very eager to make the expedition . 
If either one of these two should make request , the favour would never be refused him . 
Then he will see the bulls in the clearing , with the giant boor who watches them . 
Great is his desire to see this fellow , who is so stout and big and ugly and deformed , and as black as a smith . 
My lord Yvain gets away from the court without any one meeting him , and proceeds alone to his lodging place . 
I shall go out at once through yonder gate upon my palfrey . 
For thy part , do not delay , for I have a long road to travel . 
Have my steed well shod , and bring him quickly where I am then shalt thou lead back my palfrey . 
But take good care , I adjure thee , if any one questions thee about me , to give him no satisfaction . 
Otherwise , whatever thy confidence in me , thou need never again count on my goodwill . 
Sire , he says , all will be well , for no one shall learn anything from me . 
Proceed , and I shall follow you . 
My lord Yvain mounts at once , intending to avenge , if possible , his cousin's disgrace before he returns . 
The squire ran for the arms and steed he mounted at once without delay , since he was already equipped with shoes and nails . 
Then he followed his master's track until he saw him standing mounted , waiting to one side of the road in a place apart . 
He brought him his harness and equipment , and then accoutred him . 
The moment such a man devotes himself to virtue , his story cannot be summed up or told , for no tongue could estimate the honourable deeds of such a gentleman . 
But more than a hundred times he crossed himself at sight of the monster before him how Nature had ever been able to form such a hideous , ugly creature . 
Then to the spring he made his way , and found there all that he wished to see . 
And when God had appeased the storm , the birds came to perch upon the pine , and sang their joyous songs up above the perilous spring . 
But before their jubilee had ceased there came the knight , more blazing with wrath than a burning log , and making as much noise as if he were chasing a lusty stag . 
As soon as they espied each other they rushed together and displayed the mortal hate they bore . 
Fierce , indeed , is their assault yet they do not budge from their standing place any more than would two blocks of stone . 
Never were there two knights so intent upon each other's death . 
As they drive the sword point at the face , it is marvellous that so fierce and bitter a strife should last so long . 
But both are possessed of such courage that one would not for aught retreat a foot before his adversary until he had wounded him to death . 
At last my lord Yvain crushed the helmet of the knight , whom the blow stunned and made so faint that he swooned away , never having received such a cruel blow before . 
He had good reason then to flee , for he felt that he had a mortal wound , and that further resistance would not avail . 
He had not yet carried out the pledge which he had given to his cousin nor will they believe his word unless he returns with the evidence . 
In like fashion , beneath the gate there were two springs connected with a portcullis up above , edged with iron and very sharp . 
If anything stepped upon this contrivance the gate descended from above , and whoever below was struck by the gate was caught and mangled . 
Precisely in the middle the passage lay as narrow as if it were a beaten track . 
Straight through it exactly the knight rushed on , with my lord Yvain madly following him apace , and so close to him that he held him by the saddle bow behind . 
Like a hellish devil the gate dropped down , catching the saddle and the horse's haunches , which it cut off clean . 
But , thank God , my lord Yvain was only slightly touched when it grazed his back so closely that it cut both his spurs off even with his heels . 
And while he thus fell in dismay , the other with his mortal wound escaped him , as you now shall see . 
Farther on there was another gate just like the one they had just passed through this the knight made his escape , and the gate descended behind him . 
But about nothing was he so worried as not to know what had become of the knight . 
When she found my lord Yvain , at first she was sore dismayed . 
Surely , sir knight , she says , I fear you have come in an evil hour . 
If you are seen here , you will be all cut to pieces . 
For my lord is mortally wounded , and I know it is you who have been the death of him . 
But as yet their grief is such that they are unable to attend to you . 
The moment they come to attack you , they cannot fail to kill or capture you , as they may choose . 
And my lord Yvain replies to her If God will they shall never kill me , nor shall I fall into their hands . 
No , she says , for I shall do my utmost to assist you . 
It is not manly to cherish fear . 
So I hold you to be a man of courage , when you are not dismayed . 
And rest assured that if I could I would help you and treat you honourably , as you in turn would do for me . 
For the honour you did me then I shall now reward you . 
I know full well what your name is , and I recognised you at once your name is my lord Yvain . 
You may be sure and certain that if you take my advice you will never be caught or treated ill . 
Please take this little ring of mine , which you will return when I shall have delivered you . 
All this is pleasing to my lord Yvain . 
And he , who stood in need of food , very gladly ate and drank . 
By the time he had finished his meal the knights were astir inside looking for him and eager to avenge their lord , who was already stretched upon his bier . 
Then the damsel said to Yvain Friend , do you hear them all seeking you ? There is a great noise and uproar brewing . 
But whoever may come or go , do not stir for any noise of theirs , for they can never discover you if you do not move from this couch . 
I cannot tell you more just now , for I dare no longer tarry here . 
But I may thank God for giving me the chance and the opportunity to do some service to please you , as I yearned to do . 
Then she turned away , and when she was gone all the crowd with one accord had come from both sides to the gates , armed with clubs and swords . 
There was a mighty crowd and press of hostile people surging about , when they espied in front of the gate the half of the horse which had been cut down . 
Then they felt very sure that when the gates were opened they would find inside him whose life they wished to take . 
Then they caused to be drawn up those gates which had been the death of many men . 
But since no spring or trap was laid for their passage they all came through abreast . 
Thus they all , aflame with rage , sought him about the room , beating upon the walls , and beds , and seats . 
But the couch upon which he lay was spared and missed the blows , so that he was not struck or touched . 
But all about they thrashed enough , and raised an uproar in the room with their clubs , like a blind man who pounds as he goes about his search . 
While they were poking about under the beds and the stools , there entered one of the most beautiful ladies that any earthly creature ever saw . 
Word or mention was never made of such a fair Christian dame , and yet she was so crazed with grief that she was on the point of taking her life . 
All at once she cried out at the top of her voice , and then fell prostrate in a swoon . 
And when she had been picked up she began to claw herself and tear her hair , like a woman who had lost her mind . 
My lord Yvain heard the cries and the grief that can never be described , for no one could describe it , nor was such ever set down in a book . 
Then my lord Yvain was well struck and beaten where he lay , but not for that did he stir at all . 
And the people became more and more distraught because of the wounds which burst open , and they marvelled why they bled , without knowing whose fault it was . 
And each one to his neighbour said The murderer is among us here , and yet we do not see him , which is passing strange and mysterious . 
No other man than Thou should I blame for it who dost hide him from my sight . 
Such a wonder was never seen , nor such injustice , as Thou dost to me in not allowing me even to see the man who must be so close to me . 
When I cannot see him , I may well say that some demon or spirit has interposed himself between us , so that I am under a spell . 
For neither God nor man ever knew of his like , nor is there any like him now . 
Surely , hadst thou been a mortal man , thou wouldst never have dared to withstand my lord , for no one could compare with him . 
Thus the lady struggles with herself , and thus she contends and exhausts herself . 
And her people with her , for their part , show the greatest possible grief as they carry off the body to burial . 
The nuns and priests , having already finished the service , had returned from the church and were gone to the burial . 
But to all this the damsel in her chamber paid no heed . 
Her thoughts are with my lord Yvain , and , coming quickly , she said to him Fair sir , these people have been seeking you in force . 
They have raised a great tumult here , and have poked about in all the corners more diligently than a hunting dog goes ferreting a partridge or a quail . 
Doubtless you have been afraid . 
Upon my word , you are right , says he I never thought to be so afraid . 
And yet , if it were possible I should gladly look out through some window or aperture at the procession and the corpse . 
Yet he had no interest in either the corpse or the procession , for he would gladly have seen them all burned , even had it cost him a thousand marks . 
A thousand marks ? Three thousand , verily , upon my word . 
But he said it because of the lady of the town , of whom he wished to catch a glimpse . 
So the damsel placed him at a little window , and repaid him as well as she could for the honour which he had done her . 
No other knight , my fair sweet lord , ever possessed your honour or courtesy . 
Generosity was your friend and boldness your companion . 
May your soul rest among the saints , my fair dear lord . 
Then she strikes and tears whatever she can lay her hands upon . 
Whatever the outcome may be , it is hard for my lord Yvain to restrain himself from running forward to seize her hands . 
But the damsel begs and advises him , and even urgently commands him , though with courtesy and graciousness , not to commit any rash deed , saying You are well off here . 
Do not stir for any cause until this grief shall be assuaged let these people all depart , as they will do presently . 
If you act as I advise , in accordance with my views , great advantage may come to you . 
It will be best for you to remain seated here , and watch the people inside and out as they pass along the way without their seeing you . 
So if you cherish some rash thought be careful not to utter it . 
The wise man conceals his imprudent thought and works out righteousness if he can . 
So wisely take good care not to risk your head , for which they would accept no ransom . 
Be considerate of yourself and remember my advice . 
Rest assured until I return , for I dare not stay longer now . 
I might stay so long , I fear , that they would suspect me when they did not see me in the crowd , and then I should suffer for it . 
Then she goes off , and he remains , not knowing how to comport himself . 
He is loath to see them bury the corpse without his securing anything to take back as evidence that he has defeated and killed him . 
He would go about for ever insulting him , flinging his mockery and taunts as he did the other day . 
These taunts are still fresh and rankling in his heart . 
But with her sugar and honey a new Love now softened him he had been to hunt upon his lands and had gathered in his prey . 
His enemy carries off his heart , and he loves the creature who hates him most . 
The lady , all unaware , has well avenged her lord's death . 
She has secured greater revenge than she could ever have done unless she had been aided by Love , who attacks him so gently that he wounds his heart through his eyes . 
And this wound is more enduring than any inflicted by lance or sword . 
A sword blow is cured and healed at once as soon as a doctor attends to it , but the wound of love is worst when it is nearest to its physician . 
This is the wound of my lord Yvain , from which he will never more recover , for Love has installed himself with him . 
He deserts and goes away from the places he was wont to frequent . 
He cares for no lodging or landlord save this one , and he is very wise in leaving a poor lodging place in order to betake himself to him . 
In order to devote himself completely to him , he will have no other lodging place , though often he is wont to seek out lowly hostelries . 
It is a shame that Love should ever so basely conduct himself as to select the meanest lodging place quite as readily as the best . 
But now he has come where he is welcome , and where he will be treated honourably , and where he will do well to stay . 
This is the way Love ought to act , being such a noble creature that it is marvellous how he dares shamefully to descend to such low estate . 
He is like him who spreads his balm upon the ashes and dust , who mingles sugar with gall , and suet with honey . 
However , he did not act so this time , but rather lodged in a noble place , for which no one can reproach him . 
When the dead man had been buried , all the people dispersed , leaving no clerks or knights or ladies , excepting only her who makes no secret of her grief . 
She alone remains behind , often clutching at her throat , wringing her hands , and beating her palms , as she reads her psalms in her gilt lettered psalter . 
All this while my lord Yvain is at the window gazing at her , and the more he looks at her the more he loves her and is enthralled by her . 
He would have wished that she should cease her weeping and reading , and that she should feel inclined to converse with him . 
Love , who caught him at the window , filled him with this desire . 
But he despairs of realising his wish , for he cannot imagine or believe that his desire can be gratified . 
So he says I may consider myself a fool to wish for what I cannot have . 
I am right in saying at present' , for a woman has more than one mind . 
That mind in which she is just now I trust she will soon change indeed , she will change it certainly , and I am mad thus to despair . 
God grant that she change it soon ! For I am doomed to be her slave , since such is the will of Love . 
Whoever does not welcome Love gladly , when he comes to him , commits treason and a felony . 
that such an one deserves no happiness or joy . 
But if I lose , it will not be for such a reason rather will I love my enemy . 
For I ought not to feel any hate for her unless I wish to betray Love . 
I must love in accordance with Love's desire . 
And ought she to regard me as a friend ? Yes , surely , since it is she whom I love . 
And I call her my enemy , for she hates me , though with good reason , for I killed the object of her love . 
So , then , am I her enemy ? Surely no , but her true friend , for I never so loved any one before . 
Although they are full of ceaseless , ever flowing tears , yet never were there such lovely eves . 
The sight of her weeping causes me agony , but nothing pains me so much as the sight of her face , which she lacerates without its having merited such treatment . 
I never saw such a face so perfectly formed , nor so fresh and delicately coloured . 
And then it has pierced my heart to see her clutch her throat . 
Surely , it is all too true that she is doing the worst she can . 
And yet no crystal nor any mirror is so bright and smooth . 
Never before in a work of beauty was Nature thus able to outdo herself , for I am sure she has gone beyond the limits of any previous attempt . 
How could it ever have happened then ? Whence came beauty so marvellous ? God must have made her with His naked hand that Nature might rest from further toil . 
If she should try to make a replica , she might spend her time in vain without succeeding in her task . 
Even God Himself , were He to try , could not succeed , I guess , in ever making such another , whatever effort He might put forth . 
He stayed at the window until he saw the lady go away , and both the portcullises were lowered again . 
Another might have grieved at this , who would prefer a free escape to tarrying longer where he was . 
But to him it is quite indifferent whether they be shut or opened . 
If they were open he surely would not go away , no , even were the lady to give him leave and pardon him freely for the death of her lord . 
He would rather die than go away . 
And now the damsel returns , wishing to bear him company with her solace and gaiety , and to go and fetch for him whatever he may desire . 
Well , let us say no more of that , she makes reply , for I can understand well enough what is the meaning of such words . 
I shall surely set you free to night or to morrow , if you please . 
Come now , I will lead you away . 
And he thus makes reply You may be sure that I will never escape secretly and like a thief . 
When the people are all gathered out there in the streets , I can go forth more honourably than if I did so surreptitiously . 
Then he followed her into the little room . 
The damsel , who was kind , secured and bestowed upon him all that he desired . 
The damsel stood in such favour with her lady that she had no fear of telling her anything , regardless of the consequences , for she was her confidante and companion . 
And why ? In order to follow after him . 
After him ? God forbid , and give you again as good a lord , as is consistent with His might . 
Thou didst never speak such a lie as that , for He could never give me so good a lord again . 
He will give you a better one , if you will accept him , and I can prove it . 
Begone ! Peace ! I shall never find such a one . 
Indeed you shall , my lady , if you will consent . 
For surely , all the knights you have are not worth , as you well know , so much as a single chamber maid . 
Neither shield nor lance will ever be taken in hand by the best of them . 
You have plenty of craven servants , but there is not one of them brave enough to dare to mount a steed . 
And the King is coming with such a host that his victory will be inevitable . 
Begone , she says leave me alone . 
If I ever hear thee speak of this again it will go hard with thee , unless thou flee . 
Thou weariest me with thy idle words . 
Very well , my lady , she says that you are a woman is evident , for woman will grow irate when she hears any one give her good advice . 
Then she went away and left her alone . 
And the lady reflected that she had been in the wrong . 
She would have been very glad to know how the damsel could ever prove that it would be possible to find a better knight than her lord had ever been . 
She would be very glad to hear her speak , but now she has forbidden her . 
With this desire in mind , she waited until she returned . 
It is not fitting that so great a lady should keep up her grief so long . 
May God confound me , if thou dost not lie ! Just name to me a single one who is reputed to be so excellent as my lord was all his life . 
If I did so you would be angry with me , and would fly into a passion and you would esteem me less . 
No , I will not , I assure thee . 
Doubtless you will think I am impudent , but I shall freely speak my mind . 
Now what do you think ? It seems to me you are laying a trap for me and intend to catch me in my words . 
He beat him and pursued him valiantly until he imprisoned him in his house . 
Now , she replies , I hear the greatest nonsense that was ever uttered . 
But you promised me you would not be displeased , and that you would not be angry with me for it . 
Thereupon she goes back to the room where my lord Yvain is waiting , comfortably guarded by her vigilance . 
But he is ill at ease when he cannot see the lady , and he pays no attention , and hears no word of the report which the damsel brings to him . 
Indeed , I fully admit it . 
Tell me , then , the reason of thy deed . 
Didst thou do it to injure me , prompted by hatred or by spite ? May death not spare me now , if I did it to injure you . 
In that case , thou hast done me no wrong , nor art thou guilty of aught toward him . 
For he would have killed thee , if he could . 
So it seems to me that I have decided well and righteously . 
If the damsel should come in now , she would win the quarrel for which she had been so reproached , and by which she had been so hurt . 
And next morning , in fact , she appeared again , taking the subject up where she had let it drop . 
Meanwhile , the lady bowed her head , knowing she had done wrong in attacking her . 
But he will have to act in such a way that no one can reproach me by saying This is she who took him who killed her lord . 
In God's name , lady , so shall it be . 
You will have the gentlest , noblest , and fairest lord who ever belonged to Abel's line . 
What is his name ? My lord Yvain . 
Upon my word , if he is King Urien's son he is of no mean birth , but very noble , as I well know . 
Indeed , my lady , you say the truth . 
And when shall we be able to see him ? In five days' time . 
That would be too long for I wish he were already come . 
Let him come to night , or to morrow , at the latest . 
My lady , I think no one could fly so far in one day . 
That is a very long time . 
But tell him that to morrow night he must be back here , and that he must make greater haste than usual . 
If he will only do his best , he can do two days' journey in one . 
Moreover , to night the moon will shine so let him turn night into day . 
And when he returns I will give him whatever he wishes me to give . 
Leave all care of that to me for you shall have him in your hands the day after to morrow at the very latest . 
Meanwhile you shall summon your men and confer with them about the approaching visit of the King . 
In order to make the customary defence of your spring it behoves you to consult with them . 
None of them will be so hardy as to dare to boast that he will present himself . 
In that case you will have a good excuse for saving that it behoves you to marry again . 
A certain knight , highly qualified , seeks your hand but you do not presume to accept him without their unanimous consent . 
For , whoever is afraid of his own shadow willingly avoids , if possible , any meeting with lance or spear for such games a coward has no use . 
But why do you tarry here ? Go , without delay , and take measures to bring him here , while I shall summon my liege men . 
And the damsel pretends to send to search for my lord Yvain in his country while every day she has him bathed , and washed , and groomed . 
And besides this she prepares for him a robe of red scarlet stuff , brand new and lined with spotted fur . 
She fitted him out perfectly , then informed her lady that the messenger had returned , having done his errand well . 
How is that ? she says , is he here ? Then let him come at once , secretly and privily , while no one is here with me . 
See to it that no one else come in , for I should hate to see a fourth person here . 
At this the damsel went away , and returned to her guest again . 
Further concealment is useless now . 
The news about you has been so divulged that my lady knows the whole story and is very angry with me , heaping me with blame and reproaches . 
But she has given me her word that I may take you into her presence without any harm or danger . 
she wishes to have you in her control , and she desires such complete possession of your body that even your heart shall not be at large . 
Certainly , he said , I readily consent to what will be no hardship to me . 
I am willing to be her prisoner . 
So shall you be I swear it by this right hand laid upon you ! . 
Now come and , upon my advice , demean yourself so humbly in her presence that your imprisonment may not be grievous . 
I do not think that your restraint will be irksome . 
She is right in calling him a prisoner for surely any one who loves is no longer free . 
Taking my lord Yvain by the hand , the damsel leads him where he will be dearly loved but expecting to be ill received , it is not strange if he is afraid . 
They found the lady seated upon a red cushion . 
I assure you my lord Yvain was terrified upon entering the room , where he found the lady who spoke not a word to him . 
At this he was still more afraid , being overcome with fear at the thought that he had been betrayed . 
I will join you in your prayer that she pardon you for the death of her lord , Esclados the Red . 
Is that so , sir ? And what if I think to kill you now ? My lady , if it please you , you will never hear me speak otherwise . 
I never heard of such a thing as this that you put yourself voluntarily and absolutely within my power , without the coercion of any one . 
My lady , there is no force so strong , in truth , as that which commands me to conform absolutely to your desire . 
I do not fear to carry out any order you may be pleased to give . 
And if I could atone for the death , which came through no fault of mine , I would do so cheerfully . 
No , if one looks at it aright . 
And I suppose it would have been no use , if I had had you put to death . 
But I should be glad to learn whence you derive the force that bids you to consent unquestioningly to whatever my will may dictate . 
I pardon you all your misdeeds and crimes . 
My heart has fixed me in this desire . 
And what prompted your heart , my fair sweet friend ? Lady , my eyes . 
And what the eyes ? The great beauty that I see in you . 
And where is beauty's fault in that ? Lady , in this that it makes me love . 
Love ? And whom ? You , my lady dear . 
I ? Yes , truly . 
And would you dare to undertake the defence of my spring for love of me ? Yes , my lady , against the world . 
Then you may know that our peace is made . 
Thus they are quickly reconciled . 
Now the damsel has brought about exactly what she had desired . 
Cursed be he who opposes him ! For he seems a wonderfully fine man . 
Surely , the empress of Rome would be well married with such a man . 
Would now that he had given his word to her , and she to him , with clasped hand , and that the wedding might take place to day or tomorrow . 
Thus they spoke among themselves . 
At the end of the hall there was a seat , and there in the sight of all the lady took her place . 
Then the seneschal began , being neither stubborn nor slow of speech My lords , he said , we are confronted by war . 
Every day the King is preparing with all the haste he can command to come to ravage our lands . 
Before a fortnight shall have passed , all will have been laid waste , unless some valiant defender shall appear . 
When my lady married first , not quite seven years ago , she did it on your advice . 
Now her husband is dead , and she is grieved . 
Six feet of earth is all he has , who formerly owned all this land , and who was indeed its ornament . 
It is a pity he lived so short a while . 
A woman cannot bear a shield , nor does she know how to fight with lance . 
It would exalt and dignify her again if she should marry some worthy lord . 
At this , all at once proclaim that it seems to them the right thing to do , and they all throw themselves at her feet . 
He wishes to engage himself in the defence of my rights and in my service , for which I thank him heartily , as you do also . 
It is true I have never known him in person , but I have often heard his name . 
Know that he is no less a man than the son of King Urien . 
Beside his illustrious lineage , he is so brave , courteous , and wise that no one has cause to disparage him . 
You have all already heard , I suppose , of my lord Yvain , and it is he who seeks my hand . 
When the marriage is consummated , I shall have a more noble lord than I deserve . 
They all say If you are prudent , this very day shall not go by without the marriage being solemnised . 
For it is folly to postpone for a single hour an advantageous act . 
They beseech her so insistently that she consents to what she would have done in any case . 
For Love bids her do that for which she asks counsel and advice but there is more honour for him in being accepted with the approval of her men . 
To her their prayers are not unwelcome rather do they stir and incite her heart to have its way . 
The horse , already under speed , goes faster yet when it is spurred . 
In the presence of all her lords , the lady gives herself to my lord Yvain . 
From the hand of her chaplain he received the lady , Laudine de Landuc , daughter of Duke Laudunet , of whom they sing a lay . 
That very day without delay he married her , and the wedding was celebrated . 
There were plenty of mitres and croziers there , for the lady had summoned her bishops and abbots . 
Great was the joy and rejoicing , there were many people , and much wealth was displayed more than I could tell you of , were I to devote much thought to it . 
It is better to keep silent than to be inadequate . 
So my lord Yvain is master now , and the dead man is quite forgot . 
He who killed him is now married to his wife , and they enjoy the marriage rights . 
The people love and esteem their living lord more than they ever did the dead . 
I believe that he has run away . 
He would not dare to come back for anything . 
He was very presumptuous to make such a boast . 
A hero would be distressed at hearing his prowess related by some one else . 
And yet I maintain that the coward is not wrong to praise and vaunt himself , for he will find no one else to lie for him . 
If he does not boast of his deeds , who will ? All pass over him in silence , even the heralds , who proclaim the brave , but discard the cowards . 
he never so debased himself as to speak any ill of you compared with the gracious things he has said . 
Sire , says Kay , I'll hold my peace . 
I'll not say another word to day , since I see you are offended by my speech . 
Then the King , in order to see the rain , poured a whole basin full of water upon the stone beneath the pine , and at once the rain began to pour . 
And it was my lord Kay's desire to request the first encounter . 
For , whatever the outcome might be , he always wished to begin the fight and joust the first , or else he would be much incensed . 
Before all the rest , he requested the King to allow him to do battle first . 
The King says Kay , since it is your wish , and since you are the first to make the request , the favour ought not to be denied . 
Kay thanks him first , then mounts his steed . 
If now my lord Yvain can inflict a mild disgrace upon him , he will be very glad to do so for he recognises him by his arms . 
Each grasping his shield by the straps , they rush together . 
Spurring their steeds , they lower the lances , which they hold tightly gripped . 
My lord Yvain gave him such a mighty blow that Kay took a summersault from out of his saddle and struck with his helmet on the ground . 
My lord Yvain has no desire to inflict upon him further harm , but simply dismounts and takes his horse . 
Thereupon my lord Yvain approached the King , leading the horse in his hand by the bridle , and wishing to make it over to him . 
Sire , says he , now take this steed , for I should do wrong to keep back anything of yours . 
And who are you ? the King replies I should never know you , unless I heard your name , or saw you without your arms . 
Then my lord told him who he was , and Kay was overcome with shame , mortified , humbled , and discomfited , for having said that he had run away . 
But the others were greatly pleased , and made much of the honour he had won . 
Even the King was greatly gratified , and my lord Gawain a hundred times more than any one else . 
For he loved his company more than that of any other knight he knew . 
And he soon told him all about the service and kindness of the damsel , not passing over a single word , not forgetting to mention anything . 
And after this he invited the King and all his knights to come to lodge with him , saying they would be doing him great honour in accepting his hospitality . 
And the King said that for an entire week he would gladly do him the honour and pleasure , and would bear him company . 
And when my lord Yvain had thanked him , they tarry no longer there , but mount and take the most direct road to the town . 
When the lady heard the news of the King's visit she was greatly pleased nor was there any one who , upon hearing the news , was not happy and elated . 
And the lady summons them all and requests them to go to meet him , to which they make no objection or remonstrance , all being anxious to do her will . 
Mounted on great Spanish steeds , they all go to meet the King of Britain , saluting King Arthur first with great courtesy and then all his company . 
Silken stuffs are taken out and hung aloft as decorations , and they spread tapestries to walk upon and drape the streets with them , while they wait for the King's approach . 
And they make still another preparation , in covering the streets with awnings against the hot rays of the sun . 
Bells , horns , and trumpets cause the town to ring so that God's thunder could not have been heard . 
The maidens dance before him , flutes and pipes are played , kettle drums , drums , and cymbals are beaten . 
On their part the nimble youths leap , and all strive to show their delight . 
With such evidence of their joy , they welcome the King fittingly . 
And the Lady came forth , dressed in imperial garb a robe of fresh ermine and upon her head she wore a diadem all ornamented with rubies . 
No cloud was there upon her face , but it was so gay and full of joy that she was more beautiful , I think , than any goddess . 
However , he would not wait for this , but hastened to dismount himself as soon as he caught sight of her . 
I will say no more of how gladly she welcomed them , but no one ever heard of any people who were so honourably received and served . 
Do you know of whom I mean to speak ? He who was lord of the knights , and who was renowned above them all , ought surely to be called the sun . 
And I call her the moon , who cannot be otherwise because of her sense and courtesy . 
However , I call her so not only because of her good repute , but because her name is , in fact , Lunete . 
The damsel's name was Lunete , and she was a charming brunette , prudent , clever , and polite . 
Never throw me off for some one else when you think you can improve your lot . 
I am yours , and do you be from now on my demoiselle ! I thank you kindly , sire , she said . 
While the acquaintance of these two was ripening thus , the others , too , were engaged in flirting . 
My lord Yvain is in high feather because the King is lodged with him . 
And the lady bestows such attention upon them all , as individuals and collectively , that some foolish person might suppose that the charming attentions which she showed them were dictated by love . 
A fool is made happy by fair words , and is very easily taken in . 
That entire week they spent in gaiety forest and stream offered plenty of sport for any one who desired it . 
When the King had stayed as long as he chose , he made ready to depart . 
But during the week they had all begged urgently , and with all the insistence at their command , that they might take away my lord Yvain with them . 
What ? Will you be one of those . 
Now ought your fame to be increased ! Slip off the bridle and halter and come to the tournament with me , that no one may say that you are jealous . 
Now you must no longer hesitate to frequent the lists , to share in the onslaught , and to contend with force , whatever effort it may cost ! Inaction produces indifference . 
But , really , you must come , for I shall be in your company . 
Have a care that our comradeship shall not fail through any fault of yours , fair companion for my part , you may count on me . 
It is strange how a man sets store by the life of ease which has no end . 
Pleasures grow sweeter through postponement and a little pleasure , when delayed , is much sweeter to the taste than great pleasure enjoyed at once . 
One may easily fall into habits which it is very difficult to shake off , for when one desires to do so , he finds he has lost the power . 
My lord Gawain spoke at such length and so urgently that he promised him that he would go but he said that he must consult his lady and ask for her consent . 
Whether it be a foolish or a prudent thing to do , he will not fail to ask her leave to return to Britain . 
The lady at once gives her consent . 
not knowing what his desire is , and says Fair lord , you may command me your pleasure , whatever it be . 
Then my lord Yvain at once asks her for permission to escort the King and to attend at tournaments , that no one may reproach his indolence . 
And she replies I grant you leave until a certain date but be sure that my love will change to hate if you stay beyond the term that I shall fix . 
Remember that I shall keep my word if you break your word I will keep mine . 
John's day for to day is the eighth day since that feast . 
You will be checkmated of my love if you are not restored to me on that day . 
My lord Yvain weeps and sighs so bitterly that he can hardly find words to say My lady , this date is indeed a long way off . 
If I could be a dove , whenever the fancy came to me , I should often rejoin you here . 
And I pray God that in His pleasure He may not detain me so long away . 
But sometimes a man intends speedily to return who knows not what the future has in store for him . 
And I know not what will be my fate perhaps some urgency of sickness or imprisonment may keep me back you are unjust in not making an exception at least of actual hindrance . 
My lord , says she , I will make that exception . 
And yet I dare to promise you that , if God deliver you from death , no hindrance will stand in your way so long as you remember me . 
So put on your finger now this ring of mine , which I lend to you . 
You will become as hard as iron , and it will serve you as shield and hauberk . 
I have never before been willing to lend or entrust it to any knight , but to you I give it because of my affection for you . 
Now my lord Yvain is free to go , but he weeps bitterly on taking leave . 
The King , however , would not tarry longer for anything that might be said rather was he anxious to have the palfreys brought all equipped and bridled . 
They acceded at once to his desire , bringing the palfreys forth , so that it remained only to mount . 
I do not know whether I ought to tell you how my lord Yvain took his leave , and of the kisses bestowed on him , mingled with tears and steeped in sweetness . 
And what shall I tell you about the King how the lady escorts him , accompanied by her damsels and seneschal ? All this would require too much time . 
When he sees the lady's tears , the King implores her to come no farther , but to return to her abode . 
He begged her with such urgency that , heavy at heart , she turned about followed by her company . 
My lord Yvain is so distressed to leave his lady that his heart remains behind . 
The King may take his body off , but he cannot lead his heart away . 
She who stays behind clings so tightly to his heart that the King has not the power to take it away with him . 
When the body is left without the heart it cannot possibly live on . 
For such a marvel was never seen as the body alive without the heart . 
Yet this marvel now came about for he kept his body without the heart , which was wont to be enclosed in it , but which would not follow the body now . 
Yet I think he will overstay the term , for my lord Gawain will not allow him to part from him , as together they go to joust wherever tournaments are held . 
He could hardly keep back his tears , but he succeeded in doing so from shame . 
He was still deep in thought when he saw a damsel approaching rapidly upon a black palfrey with white forefeet . 
As she got down before the tent no one helped her to dismount , and no one went to take her horse . 
She has seen clearly the treachery of him who pretended he was a faithful lover while he was a false and treacherous thief . 
This thief has traduced my lady , who was all unprepared for any evil , and to whom it never occurred that he would steal her heart away . 
But those are deceitful and treacherous thieves who vie with one another in stealing hearts for which they care nothing . 
The true lover , wherever he may go , holds the heart dear and brings it back again . 
But Yvain has caused my lady's death , for she supposed that he would guard her heart for her , and would bring it back again before the year elapsed . 
Yvain , thou wast of short memory when thou couldst not remember to return to thy mistress within a year . 
She gave thee thy liberty until St . 
John's day , and thou settest so little store by her that never since has a thought of her crossed thy mind . 
Dost thou know how lovers spend their time ? They keep count of the time and the season . 
Yvain , my mistress has no further care for thee , but sends thee word by me never to come back to her , and no longer to keep her ring . 
She bids thee send it back to her by me , whom thou seest present here . 
Surrender it now , as thou art bound to do . 
Senseless and deprived of speech , Yvain is unable to reply . 
And the damsel steps forth and takes the ring from his finger , commending to God the King and all the others except him , whom she leaves in deep distress . 
And his sorrow grows on him he feels oppressed by what he hears , and is tormented by what he sees . 
He hates nothing so much as he hates himself , nor does he know to whom to go for comfort in the death he has brought upon himself . 
But he would rather go insane than not take vengeance upon himself , deprived , as he is , of joy through his own fault . 
He rises from his place among the knights , fearing he will lose his mind if he stays longer in their midst . 
On their part , they pay no heed to him , but let him take his departure alone . 
They know well enough that he cares nothing for their talk or their society . 
And he goes away until he is far from the tents and pavilions . 
He had sense enough to go and take the bow and arrows which he held . 
However , he had no recollection of anything that he had done . 
He lies in wait for the beasts in the woods , killing them , and then eating the venison raw . 
When he saw him coming with nothing on , he could easily perceive that he was not in his right mind and such was the case , as the hermit very well knew . 
And thither the other comes , hungry for the bread which he takes and eats . 
I do not believe that he ever before had tasted such hard and bitter bread . 
But hunger torments and whets his appetite , so that the bread tasted to him like sauce . 
For hunger is itself a well mixed and concocted sauce for any food . 
My lord Yvain soon ate the hermit's bread , which tasted good to him , and drank the cool water from the jar . 
When he had eaten , he betook himself again to the woods in search of stags and does . 
And when he sees him going away , the good man beneath his roof prays God to defend him and guard him lest he ever pass that way again . 
But there is no creature , with howsoever little sense , that will not gladly return to a place where he is kindly treated . 
So , not a day passed while he was in this mad fit that he did not bring to his door some wild game . 
Thus he had something to eat and drink venison without salt or pepper , and good cool water from the spring . 
When they saw the naked man , one of the three ran and dismounted and examined him closely , before she saw anything about him which would serve to identify him . 
If he had only been richly attired , as he had been many a time , and if she could have seen him then she would have known him quickly enough . 
Because of the scar she saw that it was he beyond any doubt but she marvelled greatly how it came about that she found him thus poor and stripped . 
I cannot imagine what sin has reduced the gentleman to such a plight . 
I think he must have had some misfortune , which causes him thus to demean himself , for one may lose his wits through grief . 
And any one can see that he is not in his right mind , for it would surely never be like him to conduct himself thus indecently unless he had lost his mind . 
And he remains sleeping all alone , while the lady goes to fetch the ointment . 
She sends him also a robe of spotted fur , a coat , and a mantle of scarlet silk . 
The damsel takes them , and leads in her right hand an excellent palfrey . 
And she added to these , of her own store , a shirt , some soft hose , and some new drawers of proper cut . 
With all these things she quickly set out , and found him still asleep where she had left him . 
After putting her horse in an enclosure where she tied him fast , she came with the clothes and the ointment to the place where he was asleep . 
She put more on than was needed , but in her opinion it was well employed . 
She rubbed his temples and forehead , and his whole body down to the ankles . 
She rubbed his temples and his whole body so much there in the hot sunshine that the madness and the depressing gloom passed completely out of his brain . 
But she was foolish to anoint his body , for of that there was no need . 
If she had had five measures of it she would doubtless have done the same thing . 
She carries off the box , and takes hidden refuge by her horse . 
She posts herself behind an oak tree until he had slept enough , and was cured and quite restored , having regained his wits and memory . 
Then he sees that he is as naked as ivory , and feels much ashamed but he would have been yet more ashamed had he known what had happened . 
As it is , he knows nothing but that he is naked . 
He sees the new robe lying before him , and marvels greatly how and by what adventure it had come there . 
But he is ashamed and concerned , because of his nakedness , and says that he is dead and utterly undone if any one has come upon him there and recognised him . 
Meanwhile , he clothes himself and looks out into the forest to see if any one was approaching . 
He tries to stand up and support himself , but cannot summon the strength to walk away , for his sickness has so affected him that he can scarcely stand upon his feet . 
Thereupon , the damsel resolves to wait no longer , but , mounting , she passed close by him , as if unaware of his presence . 
And the damsel , for her part , looks about her as if not knowing what the trouble is . 
Confused , she goes hither and thither , not wishing to go straight up to him . 
Then he begins to call again Damsel , come this way , here ! And the damsel guided toward him her soft stepping palfrey . 
By this ruse she made him think that she knew nothing of him and had never seen him before in so doing she was wise and courteous . 
When she had come before him , she said Sir knight , what do you desire that you call me so insistently ? Ah , said he . 
prudent damsel , I have found myself in this wood by some mishap I know not what . 
Gladly , sire but you must accompany me whither I am going . 
Which way ? says he . 
To a town that stands near by , beyond the forest . 
Tell me , damsel , if you stand in need of me . 
Yes , she says , I do but I think you are not very well . 
For the next two weeks at least you ought to rest . 
Take this horse , which I hold in my right hand , and we shall go to our lodging place . 
And he , who had no other desire , takes it and mounts , and they proceed until they come to a bridge over a swift and turbulent stream . 
It is her intention to invent this story when she comes into her mistress' presence . 
Then the lady was greatly enraged , and said This is certainly a very serious loss , and I am sure and certain that the box will never be found again . 
But since it has happened so , there is nothing more to be done about it . 
However , I beg you to serve him in all respects . 
Ah , lady , how wisely now you speak ! For it would be too bad to convert one misfortune into two . 
He stayed there until , upon a Tuesday , Count Alier came to the town with his men and knights , who started fires and took plunder . 
Those in the town at once rose up and equipped themselves with arms . 
Some armed and some unarmed , they issued forth to meet the plunderers , who did not deign to retreat before them , but awaited them in a narrow pass . 
The knight never rose again , for his backbone was broken and his heart burst within his breast . 
My lord Yvain drew back a little to recover . 
Then protecting himself completely with his shield , he spurred forward to clear the pass . 
One could not have counted up to four before one would have seen him cast down speedily four knights . 
So these men grew brave and each stood his ground in the fight and attack . 
For my courteous , bold , and excellent lord Yvain made them yield just as a falcon does the teal . 
When such an excellent man is found he ought to be loved and dearly prized . 
See him in the fray again , how lightly he esteems his shield , which he allows to be cut in pieces mercilessly . 
Just see how keen he is to avenge the blows which are dealt at him . 
to make lances for him , I guess he would have none left by night . 
For he breaks all the lances that they place in his socket , and calls for more . 
Thus men and women alike praised him , and in doing so they but told the truth . 
For his attack on his adversaries was such that they vie with one another in flight . 
The pursuit continues until those who flee become exhausted , and the pursuers slash at them and disembowel their steeds . 
The living roll over upon the dead as they wound and kill each other . 
There the Count was stopped , with no one near to lend him aid and without any excessive parley my lord Yvain received his surrender . 
And when he had accepted his word he made him disarm his head and remove the shield from about his neck , and the Count surrendered to him his sword . 
Thus he won the honour of leading off the Count as his prisoner , and of giving him over to his enemies , who make no secret of their joy . 
But the news was carried to the town before they themselves arrived . 
While all come forth to meet them , the lady herself leads the way . 
My lord Yvain holds his prisoner by the hand , and presents him to her . 
The Count gladly acceded to her wishes and demands , and secured her by his word , oath , and pledges . 
When these things were agreed upon in accordance with the lady's wish , my lord Yvain asked leave to depart . 
But she would not have granted him this permission had he been willing to take her as his mistress . 
But he would not allow himself to be followed or escorted a single step , but rather departed hastily in this case entreaty was of no avail . 
So he started out to retrace his path , leaving the lady much chagrined , whose joy he had caused a while before . 
But he would not heed any word of man or woman . 
Despite their grief he left the knights and the lady who vainly tried to detain him longer . 
My lord Yvain did not gape at this strange spectacle , but took counsel with himself as to which of the two he should aid . 
Then he says that he will succour the lion , for a treacherous and venomous creature deserves to be harmed . 
Now the serpent is poisonous , and fire bursts forth from its mouth so full of wickedness is the creature . 
So my lord Yvain decides that he will kill the serpent first . 
If the lion attacks him next , he too shall have all the fight he wishes but whatever may happen afterwards he makes up his mind to help him now . 
For pity urges him and makes request that he should bear succour and aid to the gentle and noble beast . 
But he had to cut off a piece of the lion's tail to get at the serpent's head , which held the lion by the tail . 
He cut off only so much as was necessary and unavoidable . 
Then he fell on his knees again , and all his face was wet with the tears of humility . 
My lord Yvain knows for a truth that the lion is thanking him and doing him homage because of the serpent which he had killed , thereby delivering him from death . 
He was greatly pleased by this episode . 
He cleaned his sword of the serpent's poison and filth then he replaced it in its scabbard , and resumed his way . 
And the lion walks close by his side , unwilling henceforth to part from him he will always in future accompany him , eager to serve and protect him . 
He goes ahead until he scents in the wind upon his way some wild beasts feeding then hunger and his nature prompt him to seek his prey and to secure his sustenance . 
It is his nature so to do . 
He started ahead a little on the trail , thus showing his master that he had come upon and detected the odour and scent of some wild game . 
Then he looks at him and halts , wishing to serve his every wish , and unwilling to proceed against his will . 
Yvain understands by his attitude that he is showing that he awaits his pleasure . 
He perceives this and understands that if he holds back he will hold back too , and that if he follows him he will seize the game which he has scented . 
Then he incites and cries to him , as he would do to hunting dogs . 
This deer he will seize , if he has his way . 
And so he did , at the first spring , and then drank its blood still warm . 
It was near nightfall now , and it seemed good to him to spend the night there , and strip from the deer as much as he cared to eat . 
But there was no pleasure in the meal , for there was no bread , or wine , or salt , or cloth , or knife , or anything else . 
What remained of the deer the lion devoured , even to the bones . 
There my lord Yvain almost lost his wits a second time , as he approached the spring , with its stone and the chapel that stood close by . 
There is not a mesh that does not spread , and the sword cuts the flesh of his neck beneath the shining mail , so that it causes the blood to start . 
Then the lion thinks that he sees his master and companion dead . 
You never heard greater grief narrated or told about anything than he now began to show . 
He casts himself about , and scratches and cries , and has the wish to kill himself with the sword with which he thinks his master has killed himself . 
It is fitting to hate and blame and despise myself , even as in fact I do . 
Whoever loses his bliss and contentment through fault or error of his own ought to hate himself mortally . 
He ought to hate and kill himself . 
Joy ? What joy is that ? I shall say no more of that , for no one could speak of such a thing and I have asked a foolish question . 
That was the greatest joy of all which was assured as my possession , but it endured for but a little while . 
Whoever loses such joy through his own misdeed is undeserving of happiness . 
While he thus bemoaned his fate , a lorn damsel in sorry plight , who was in the chapel , saw him and heard his words through a crack in the wall . 
And he replied Be silent , foolish one ! Thy grief is joy and thy sorrow is bliss compared with that in which I am cast down . 
In proportion as a man becomes more accustomed to happiness and joy , so is he more distracted and stunned than any other man by sorrow when it comes . 
A man of little strength can carry , through custom and habit , a weight which another man of greater strength could not carry for anything . 
Upon my word , she said , I know the truth of that remark but that is no reason to believe that your misfortune is worse than mine . 
Is that not true Yes , but I know not yet by whom . 
There are only two men in the world who would dare on my behalf to face three men in battle . 
What ? In God's name , are there three of them ? Yes , sire , upon my word . 
There are three who accuse me of treachery . 
Because of whom ? he asked , what did you say ? Sire , so help me God , because of the son of King Urien . 
Now I understand your words , but you shall not die , without he dies too . 
I myself am that Yvain , because of whom you are in such distress . 
I should have been killed or seized , had it not been for your kind aid . 
It is a fact that I was not slow in honestly aiding you . 
Upon my advice my lady received you , after heeding my opinion and my counsel . 
And by the Holy Paternoster , more for her welfare than for your own I thought I was doing it , and I think so still . 
In full court and in the presence of all he accused me of having betrayed her in your favour . 
The fellow was not courteous enough to scorn to accept such odds , nor was I at liberty to retreat or withdraw for anything that might happen . 
So he took me at my word , and I was compelled to furnish bail that I would present within forty days a knight to do battle against three knights . 
Where then was my good and gentle lord Gawain ? No damsel in distress ever needed his aid without its being extended to her . 
I believe it was Kay who escorted her to meet the knight who has taken her away and my lord Gawain in great distress has gone in search for her . 
He will never have any rest until he finds her . 
Now I have told you the whole truth of my adventure . 
To morrow I shall be put to a shameful death , and shall be burnt inevitably , a victim of your criminal neglect . 
I would sooner suffer death , since you will have it so . 
Yet , after all , I beg you not to return for my sake . 
I would not have you undertake a battle which will be so desperate . 
So it is better for you to remain alive than that we both should meet death . 
I will not discuss the matter more , for you have surely done so much for me that I cannot fail you in any need . 
I know that you are in great distress but , if it be God's will , in whom I trust , they shall all three be discomfited . 
So no more upon that score I am going off now to find some shelter in this wood , for there is no dwelling near at hand . 
They journeyed until they came to a baron's fortified place , which was completely surrounded by a massive , strong , and high wall . 
You will learn the cause of this a little later , when the time comes . 
My lord Yvain made his way directly toward the fortified place , and seven varlets came out who lowered the bridge and advanced to meet him . 
And he replies Say no more of that ! For I shall not enter without him . 
Either we shall both find shelter here or else I shall stay outside he is as dear to me as I am myself . 
Yet you need have no fear of him ! For I shall keep him so well in hand that you may be quite confident . 
But after they had expressed their gladness they are overwhelmed by grief , which makes them quickly forget their joy , as they begin to lament and weep and beat themselves . 
My lord Yvain was so surprised that they so often changed their mood , and mingled grief with their happiness , that he addressed the lord of the place on the subject . 
I will never tell you willingly anything to cause you grief . 
Well , then , he said , I will tell you all . 
I have suffered much from a giant , who has insisted that I should give him my daughter , who surpasses in beauty all the maidens in the world . 
This evil giant , whom may God confound , is named Harpin of the Mountain . 
Not a day passes without his taking all of my possessions upon which he can lay his hands . 
No one has a better right than I to complain , and to be sorrowful , and to make lament . 
That is the disaster which awaits me to morrow , unless the Lord God grant me His aid . 
So it is no wonder , fair sir , if we are all in tears . 
But for your sake we strive for the moment to assume as cheerful a countenance as we can . 
For he is a fool who attracts a gentleman to his presence and then does not honour him and you seem to be a very perfect gentleman . 
Now I have told you the entire story of our great distress . 
Neither in town nor in fortress has the giant left us anything , except what we have here . 
When he had plundered all he wished , he set fire to what remained . 
In this way he has done me many an evil turn . 
There is no man so mighty that he could not find at his court some who would be glad to try their strength with his . 
Then the wealthy man reveals and explains to him that he would have had efficient help if he had known where to find my lord Gawain . 
He was a fool , and she imprudent to entrust herself to his escort . 
While listening to this recital my lord Yvain does not cease to sigh . 
Once for all , fair sire , the good man said , I thank you a hundred thousand times for your willingness . 
And all the people of the house likewise expressed their gratitude . 
Just then the damsel came out of a room , with her graceful body and her face so fair and pleasing to look upon . 
She was very simple and sad and quiet as she came , for there was no end to the grief she felt she walked with her head bowed to the ground . 
And her mother , too , came in from an adjoining room , for the gentleman had sent for them to meet his guest . 
Nevertheless , he promises them enough to arouse good hope in them . 
They take comfort and rejoice because of the hope they stake on him , and they indulge their grief no more . 
He and the lion together lay down there and took their rest . 
The others dared not sleep in the room but they closed the door so tight that they could not come out until the next day at dawn . 
When the room was thrown open he got up and heard Mass , and then , because of the promise he had made , he waited until the hour of prime . 
At this the damsel's blood quivered and boiled with fear , as well as the lady's and the lord's . 
Then the lord makes him an offer of all he will take of his lands or wealth , if only he will wait a little longer . 
And he replied God forbid that ever I should take anything of yours ! Then the damsel , who is in dismay , begins to weep aloud , and beseeches him to stay . 
Filled with anguish he heaved a sigh , for were the kingdom of Tarsus at stake he would not see her burned to whom he had pledged his aid . 
Thus they were brought along in shame by the giant and the dwarf . 
For he no longer loves her nor esteems her , that he should deign to abase himself to her . 
She shall be constantly beset by a thousand lousy and ragged knaves , vacant wretches , and scullery boys , who all shall lay hands on her . 
His agony is like that of one who would rather be dead than alive . 
Again and again he bemoans his fate , and weeps aloud and sighs . 
Then my frank and gentle lord Yvain thus began to speak to him Sire , very vile and impudent is that giant who vaunts himself out there . 
But may God never grant that he should have your daughter in his power ! He despises her and insults her openly . 
It would be too great a calamity if so lovely a creature of such high birth were handed over to become the sport of boys . 
Give me now my arms and horse ! Have the drawbridge lowered , and let me pass . 
One or the other must be cast down , either I or he , I know not which . 
Then they go to get his horse , and hand over to him his arms , striving so expeditiously that they soon have him quite equipped . 
They delayed as little as they could in arming him . 
When his equipment was complete , there remained nothing but to lower the bridge and let him go . 
They lowered it for him , and he went out . 
But the lion would by no means stay behind . 
So they pray God to defend him from death , and return him to them safe and sound , and that He may give him strength to slay the giant . 
Each one softly prays to God in accordance with his wish . 
He has chosen well his vengeance for whatever wrong thou hast done to him . 
But the other , fearing naught , replies Thou treatest of what matters not . 
Now do thy best , and I'll do mine . 
Thereupon my lord Yvain , who was anxious to depart , rides at him . 
He goes to strike him on the breast , which was protected by a bear's skin , and the giant runs at him with his stake raised in air . 
My lord Yvain deals him such a blow upon the chest that he thrusts through the skin and wets the tip of his lance in his body's blood by way of sauce . 
And the giant belabours him with the stake , and makes him bend beneath the blows . 
My lord Yvain then draws the sword with which he knew how to deal fierce blows . 
He found the giant unprotected , for he trusted in his strength so much that he disdained to arm himself . 
Then the other in turn gave him such a blow with the stake that it made him sing in a heap upon his horse's neck . 
The giant escaped his clutches , roaring and bellowing like a bull , for the lion had badly wounded him . 
Then my lord Yvain took aim and landed two blows on him . 
Before he could recover himself he had severed with the edge of his sword the giant's shoulder from his body . 
With the next blow he ran the whole blade of his sword through his liver beneath his chest the giant falls in death's embrace . 
And if a great oak tree should fall , I think it would make no greater noise than the giant made when he tumbled down . 
All those who were on the wall would fain have witnessed such a blow . 
So men and women in rivalry ran forward without delay to where the giant lay face downward . 
The daughter comes running , and her mother too . 
And the four brothers rejoice after the woes they have endured . 
And he replies that he cannot promise them anything , for as yet he cannot guess whether it will fare well or ill with him . 
For kind actions are of no use if you are not willing that they be known . 
And they reply It is not right that such kindness as this should be kept hid we shall do whatever you desire . 
But tell us what we can say when we come before him . 
Then , without further delay , he starts . 
But it did not please or suit him that any one should accompany him so he left the place to them , and went away alone . 
And as soon as he starts , riding as fast as his steed can carry him , he heads toward the chapel . 
The path was good and straight , and he knew well how to keep the road . 
But before he could reach the chapel , the damsel had been dragged out and the pyre prepared upon which she was to be placed . 
Clad only in a shift , she was held bound before the fire by those who wrongly attributed to her an intention she had never had . 
My lord Yvain arrived , and , seeing her beside the fire into which she was about to be cast , he was naturally incensed . 
He would be neither courteous nor sensible who had any doubt about that fact . 
So it is true that he was much incensed but he cherishes within himself the hope that God and the Right will be on his side . 
In such helpers he confides nor does he scorn his lion's aid . 
And they draw off on either side , leaving a passage way for him . 
But he yearns to see with his own eyes her whom his heart beholds in whatever place she may be . 
His eyes seek her until he finds her , while he subdues and holds in check his heart , just as one holds in check with a strong curb a horse that pulls . 
Thus they were bemoaning their fate and my lord Yvain who was in their midst , heard their complaints , which were neither groundless nor assumed . 
He saw Lunete on her knees and stripped to her shift , having already made confession , and besought God's mercy for her sins . 
And she , who had neither seen nor looked at him before , said Sire . 
Ah ! they exclaim , woman , chary of uttering truth but generous with lies ! He indeed is mad who for thy words assumes so great a task . 
The knight must be simple minded who has come here to die for thee , for he is alone and there are three of us . 
My advice to him is that he turn back before any harm shall come to him . 
I should be indeed discourteous , if , while yet unscathed and in perfect case , I should leave the place and field to you . 
Never , so long as I am alive and sound , will I run away before such threats . 
I believe implicitly what she has told me , and will defend her as best I can , for I consider the righteousness of her cause to be in my favour . 
Then the other responds imprudently that he may make every effort that pleases him and is convenient to do him injury , provided that his lion shall not do him harm . 
The lion now withdrew , and the parley and quarrel being ended between them two , they all took their distance for the charge . 
The three together spurred toward him , and he went to meet them at a walk . 
He did not wish to be overturned or hurt at this first encounter . 
So he let them split their lances , while keeping his entire , making for them a target of his shield , whereon each one broke his lance . 
Then he galloped off until he was separated from them by the space of an acre but he soon returned to the business in hand , having no desire to delay . 
And then the other two came at him with their swords bared , and both deal him great blows , but they receive still heavier blows from him . 
Then the lion , who is looking on , delays no longer to lend him aid for it seems to him that he needs it now . 
The ladies , having no other weapons , thus assist him with their prayers . 
He strips whatever he touches , so that the entrails lie exposed . 
The other two avenge this blow . 
Now they are all even on the field . 
The seneschal is marked for death , as he turns and welters in the red stream of warm blood pouring from his body . 
For his part , my lord Yvain was by no means in a healthy state , for his body bore many a wound . 
But he is not so anxious about himself as about his lion , which is in distress . 
Now he has delivered the damsel exactly in accordance with his wish , and the lady has very willingly dismissed the grudge that she bore her . 
Now Lunete is joyous and glad at being reconciled with her mistress , and together they were more happy than any one ever was before . 
And he replied Lady , I shall not now tarry here until my lady removes from me her displeasure and anger then the end of all my labours will come . 
Indeed , she said , that grieves me . 
I think the lady cannot be very courteous who cherishes ill will against you . 
She ought not to close her door against so valorous a knight as you , unless he had done her some great wrong . 
Lady , he replies , however great the hardship be , I am pleased by what ever may be her will . 
But speak to me no more of that for I shall say nothing of the cause or crime , except to those who are informed of it . 
Does any one know it , then , beside you two ? Yes , truly , lady . 
Well , tell us at least your name , fair sir then you will be free to go . 
Quite free , my lady ? No , I shall not be free . 
I owe more than I can pay . 
Yet , I ought not to conceal from you my name . 
You will never hear of The Knight with the Lion' without hearing of me for I wish to be known by that name . 
For God's sake , sir , what does that name mean ? For we never saw you before , nor have we ever heard mentioned this name of yours . 
My lady , you may from that infer that my fame is not widespread . 
Then the lady says Once more , if it did not oppose your will , I would pray you to tarry here . 
Really , my lady , I should not dare , until I knew certainly that I had regained my lady's good will . 
Well , then , go in God's name , fair sir and , if it be His will , may He convert your grief and sorrow into joy . 
Lady , says he , may God hear your prayer . 
Then he goes away in great distress , and there is no one who recognises him save Lunete , who accompanied him a long distance . 
Lunete alone keeps him company , and he begs her insistently never to reveal the name of her champion . 
Sire , says she , I will never do so . 
Then he further requested her that she should not forget him , and that she should keep a place for him in his mistress' heart , whenever the chance arose . 
She tells him to be at ease on that score for she will never be forgetful , nor unfaithful , nor idle . 
Then he thanks her a thousand times , and he departs pensive and oppressed , because of his lion that he must needs carry , being unable to follow him on foot . 
He makes for him a litter of moss and ferns in his shield . 
Thus , in his shield he bears him off , until he arrives before the gate of a mansion , strong and fair . 
Finding it closed , he called , and the porter opened it so promptly that he had no need to call but once . 
He reaches out to take his rein , and greets him thus Come in , fair sire . 
I offer you the dwelling of my lord , if it please you to dismount . 
I accept the offer gladly , he replies , for I stand in great need of it , and it is time to find a lodging . 
Thereupon , he passed through the gate , and saw the retainers in a mass coming to meet him . 
They greeted him and helped him from his horse , and laid down upon the pavement his shield with the lion on it . 
And some , taking his horse , put it in a stable while others very properly relieved him of his arms and took them . 
Then the lord of the castle heard the news , and at once came down into the courtyard , and greeted him . 
And his lady came down , too , with all her sons and daughters and a great crowd of other people , who all rejoiced to offer him a lodging . 
They gave him a quiet room , because they deemed that he was sick but their good nature was put to a test when they allowed the lion to go with him . 
His cure was undertaken by two maidens skilled in surgery , who were daughters of the lord . 
I do not know how many days he stayed there , until he and his lion , being cured , were compelled to proceed upon their way . 
But within this time it came about that my lord of Noire Espine had a struggle with Death , and so fierce was Death's attack that he was forced to die . 
And the other one said that she would go to King Arthur's court to seek help for the defence of her claim to the land . 
At once she prepared and equipped herself , and without any tarrying or delay , she proceeded to the court . 
Just then the other sister arrived at court , clad in a short mantle of scarlet cloth and fresh ermine . 
And on that very day , when the damsel came to court , news was received of the cruel and wicked giant whom the knight with the lion had killed in battle . 
Then the damsel at once left him , and presented herself before the King . 
O King , said she , I have come to thee and to thy court for aid . 
But I find none , and I am very much mazed that I can get no counsel here . 
Yet it would not be right for me to go away without taking leave . 
You have spoken wisely , said the King since she is present here , I advise , recommend , and urge her to surrender to you what is your right . 
But if any knight dares to take arms on her behalf and desires to defend her cause , let him step forth at once . 
Whereupon , the other says that she does desire it , and she makes formal request for it . 
Thus she entered upon her quest , and traversed many a country without hearing any news of him , which caused her such grief that she fell sick . 
But it was well for her that it happened so for she came to the dwelling of a friend of hers , by whom she was dearly loved . 
By this time her face showed clearly that she was not in good health . 
They insisted upon detaining her until she told them of her plight whereupon , another damsel took up the quest wherein she had been engaged , and continued the search on her behalf . 
So while the one remained in this retreat , the other rode rapidly all day long , until the darkness of night came on , and caused her great anxiety . 
And her trouble was doubled when the rain came on with terrible violence , as if God Himself were doing His worst , while she was in the depths of the forest . 
The night and the woods cause her great distress , but she is more tormented by the rain than by either the woods or the night . 
She continued in prayer until she heard a horn , at which she greatly rejoiced for she thought now she would find shelter , if she could only reach the place . 
So she spurred her horse in that direction , until she drew near a bridge , and descried the white walls and the barbican of a circular castle . 
Thus , by chance she came upon the castle , setting her course by the sound which had led her thither . 
She had been attracted by the sound of the horn blown by a watchman upon the walls . 
You shall be well lodged this night . 
I have no other desire than that , the damsel replied , as he let her in . 
After the toil and anxiety she had endured that day , she was fortunate to find such a lodging place for she was very comfortable there . 
After the meal the host addressed her , and inquired where she was going and what was her quest . 
I can testify to that , the other said for the day before yesterday God sent him here to me in my dire need . 
Blessed be the paths which led him to my dwelling . 
For he made me glad by avenging me of a mortal enemy and killing him before my eyes . 
Outside yonder gate you may see to morrow the body of a mighty giant , whom he slew with such ease that he hardly had to sweat . 
For God's sake , sire , the damsel said , tell me now the truth , if you know whither he went , and where he is . 
I don't know , he said , as God sees me here but to morrow I will start you on the road by which he went away from here . 
And may God , said she , lead me where I may hear true news of him . 
For if I find him , I shall be very glad . 
Thus they continued in long converse until at last they went to bed . 
When the day dawned , the maid arose , being in great concern to find the object of her quest . 
And the master of the house arose with all his companions , and set her upon the road which led straight to the spring beneath the pine . 
And they told her that they had seen him defeat three knights in that very place . 
Whereupon , she said at once For God's sake , since you have said so much , do not keep back from me anything that you can add . 
No , they replied we know nothing more than we have said , nor do we know what became of him . 
If she for whose sake he came here , cannot give you further news , there will be no one here to enlighten you . 
While they were talking thus , Lunete came out from the church , and they said There she is . 
Then she went to meet her , and they greeted each other . 
The other maiden thanked her heartily . 
While speaking thus , she escorted her to the road which led directly to the spot where my lord Yvain had parted from her . 
When he left me , he was in sore need of a plaster for his wounds . 
So I will send you along after him , and if it be God's will , may He grant that you find him to night or to morrow in good health . 
Now go I commend you to God . 
I must not follow you any farther , lest my mistress be displeased with me . 
Then Lunete leaves her and turns back while the other pushed on until she found a house , where my lord Yvain had tarried until he was restored to health . 
Who is he ? they ask . 
I have heard it said that he is never without a lion . 
Upon my word , damsel , the master says , he has just now left us . 
You can come up with him to night , if you are able to keep his tracks in sight , and are careful not to lose any time . 
Sire , she answers , God forbid . 
But tell me now in what direction I must follow him . 
And they tell her This way , straight ahead , and they beg her to greet him on their behalf . 
But their courtesy was not of much avail for , without giving any heed , she galloped off at once . 
The pace seemed much too slow to her , though her palfrey made good time . 
So she galloped through the mud just the same as where the road was good and smooth , until she caught sight of him with the lion as his companion . 
Then in her gladness she exclaims God , help me now . 
At last I see him whom I have so long pursued , and whose trace I have long followed . 
But if I pursue and nothing gain , what will it profit me to come up with him ? Little or nothing , upon my word . 
If he does not join in my enterprise , I have wasted all my pains . 
Thus saying , she pressed on so fast that her palfrey was all in a sweat but she caught up with him and saluted him . 
He thus at once replied to her God save you , fair one , and deliver you from grief and woe . 
The same to you , sire , who , I hope , will soon be able to deliver me . 
Then she draws nearer to him , and says Sire , I have long searched for you . 
The great fame of your merit has made me traverse many a county in my weary search for you . 
But I continued my quest so long , thank God , that at last I have found you here . 
And if I brought any anxiety with me , I am no longer concerned about it , nor do I complain or remember it now . 
I am entirely relieved my worry has taken flight the moment I met with you . 
Moreover , the affair is none of mine I come to you from one that is better than I , a woman who is more noble and excellent . 
But if she be disappointed in her hopes of you , then she has been betrayed by your fair renown , for she has no expectation of other aid . 
My damsel , who is deprived of her inheritance by a sister , expects with your help to win her suit she will have none but you defend her cause . 
No one can make her believe that any one else could bear her aid . 
By securing her share of the heritage , you will have won and acquired the love of her who is now disinherited , and you will also increase your own renown . 
Now tell me , please , whether you will dare to come , or whether you will decline . 
And if she for whose sake you have sought me out stands in some great need of me , have no fear that I shall not do all I can for her . 
Now may God grant me the happiness and grace to settle in her favour her rightful claim . 
Thus conversing , they two rode away until they approached the town of Pesme Avanture . 
They had no desire to pass it by , for the day was already drawing to a close . 
They came riding to the castle , when all the people , seeing them approach , called out to the knight Ill come , sire , ill come . 
This lodging place was pointed out to you in order that you might suffer harm and shame . 
An abbot might take his oath to that . 
But you shall learn nothing more until you have ascended to the fortress . 
This they are accustomed to do in the case of all who come , so that they may not go inside . 
And the custom is such that we dare not receive in our own houses , for any reason whatsoever , any gentleman who comes here from a distance . 
The responsibility now is thine alone no one will stand in thy way . 
If thou wishest , thou mayst go up now but my advice is to turn back again . 
Lady , he says , doubtless it would be to my honour and advantage to follow your advice but I do not know where I should find a lodging place to night . 
Upon my word , says she , I'll say no more , for the concern is none of mine . 
Nevertheless , I should be very glad to see you return from inside without too great shame but that could hardly be . 
Lady , he says , may God reward you for the wish . 
However , my wayward heart leads me on inside , and I shall do what my heart desires . 
Thereupon , he approaches the gate , accompanied by his lion and his damsel . 
Then the porter calls to him , and says Come quickly , come . 
You are on your way to a place where you will be securely detained , and may your visit be accursed . 
The porter , after addressing him with this very ungracious welcome , hurried upstairs . 
Each one was sewing with golden thread and silk , as best she could . 
Their necks were thin , and their faces pale with hunger and privation . 
You would like to be outside but , by my head , it is of no use . 
I enjoy seeing the work they do , but I am much distressed to see their bodies so thin , and their faces so pale and sad . 
I imagine they would be fair and charming , if they had what they desire . 
I will tell you nothing , was the reply seek some one else to tell you . 
That will I do , since there is no better way . 
Then he says to them May it please God to remove from your hearts , and turn to joy , this grief , the cause of which I do not know . 
One of them answers May you be heard by God , to whom you have addressed your prayer . 
It shall not be concealed from you who we are , and from what land I suppose that is what you wish to know . 
For no other purpose came I here , says he . 
It was an unlucky hour when he first came here , for we wretched captives who are here receive all the shame and misery which we have in no wise deserved . 
And rest assured that you yourself may expect great shame , unless a ransom for you be accepted . 
who were born of a woman and an imp . 
And when he swore , it was agreed that this arrangement should remain in force as long as the two devils lived . 
Never again shall we know what pleasure is . 
But I spoke folly just now in referring to our deliverance , for we shall never more leave this place . 
We shall spend our days weaving cloths of silk , without ever being better clad . 
We shall always be poor and naked , and shall always suffer from hunger and thirst , for we shall never be able to earn enough to procure for ourselves any better food . 
And with this we cannot provide ourselves with sufficient food and clothes . 
a week , yet we cannot live without hardship . 
So while we are reduced to such poverty , he , for whom we work , is rich with the product of our toil . 
But why should I tell you more ? We are so shamefully treated and insulted that I cannot tell you the fifth part of it all . 
But what makes us almost wild with rage is that we very often see rich and excellent knights , who fight with the two devils , lose their lives on our account . 
They pay dearly for the lodging they receive , as you will do to morrow . 
For , whether you wish to do so or not , you will have to fight singlehanded and lose your fair renown with these two devils . 
May God , the true and spiritual , protect me , said my lord Yvain , and give you back your honour and happiness , if it be His will . 
I must go now and see the people inside there , and find out what sort of entertainment they will offer me . 
Go now , sire , and may He protect you who gives and distributes all good things . 
Then he went until he came to the hall where he found no one , good or bad , to address him . 
Then he and his companion passed through the house until they came to a garden . 
They never spoke of , or mentioned , stabling their horses . 
But what matters it ? For those who considered them already as their own had stabled them carefully . 
I do not know whether their expectation was wise , for the horses' owners are still perfectly hale . 
The horses , however , have oats and hay , and stand in litter up to their belly . 
My lord Yvain and his company enter the garden . 
There he sees , reclining upon his elbow upon a silken rug , a gentleman , to whom a maiden was reading from a romance about I know not whom . 
It is not fitting that any one should recover until he meets with faithlessness . 
Any one who is cured by other means is not honestly in love . 
I could tell you so much about this wound , if you were pleased to listen to it , that I would not get through my tale to day . 
But hear now in what fashion and with what manner of hospitality my lord Yvain was received . 
All those who were in the garden leaped to their feet when they saw him come , and cried out This way , fair sire . 
May you and all you love be blessed with all that God can do or say . 
I know not if they were deceiving him , but they receive him joyfully and act as if they are pleased that he should be comfortably lodged . 
Even the lord's daughter serves him very honourably , as one should treat a worthy guest . 
She relieves him of all his arms , nor was it the least attention she bestowed on him when she herself washed his neck and face . 
The lord wishes that all honour should be shown him , as indeed they do . 
She gets out from her wardrobe a folded shirt , white drawers , needle and thread for his sleeves , which she sews on , thus clothing him . 
She takes such pains to serve him well that he feels ashamed and embarrassed . 
But the damsel is so courteous and open hearted and polite that she feels she is doing very little . 
And she knows well that it is her mother's will that she shall leave nothing undone for him which she thinks may win his gratitude . 
That night at table he was so well served with so many dishes that there were too many . 
The servants who brought in the dishes might well have been wearied by serving them . 
That night they did him all manner of honour , putting him comfortably to bed , and not once going near him again after he had retired . 
His lion lay at his feet , as his custom was . 
They heard Mass in a chapel , where it was promptly said for them in honour of the Holy Spirit . 
There is a reason why I cannot do so , for there is established in this castle a very terrible practice which I am bound to observe . 
I shall now cause to approach two great , strong fellows of mine , against whom , whether right or wrong , you must take arms . 
Sire , said he , for all this I have no desire . 
No more , fair guest , the lord replied there is no need of my listening to your refusal , for you cannot escape . 
He who can defeat the two , who are about to attack you , must by right receive my castle , and all my land , and my daughter as his wife . 
There is no way of avoiding or renouncing the battle . 
But I feel sure that your refusal of my daughter is due to cowardice , for you think that in this manner you can completely avoid the battle . 
Know , however , without fail that you must surely fight . 
No knight who lodges here can possibly escape . 
This is a settled custom and statute , which will endure yet for many a year , for my daughter will never be married until I see them dead or defeated . 
Then I must fight them in spite of myself . 
But I assure you that I should very gladly give it up . 
In spite of my reluctance , however , I shall accept the battle , since it is inevitable . 
They were armed from the shoulders to the knees , but their head and face were bare , as well as their brawny legs . 
Thus armed , they advanced , bearing in their hands round shields , stout and light for fighting . 
The lion begins to quiver as soon as he sees them , for he sees the arms they have , and perceives that they come to fight his master . 
And when they see him they say Vassal , remove the lion from here that he may not do us harm . 
Either surrender to us at once , or else , we adjure you , that lion must be put where he can take no part in aiding you or in harming us . 
You must come alone to enjoy our sport , for the lion would gladly help you , if he could . 
My lord Yvain then replies to them Take him away yourselves if you are afraid of him . 
For I shall be well pleased and satisfied if he can contrive to injure you , and I shall be grateful for his aid . 
They answer Upon my word that will not do you shall never receive any help from him . 
Do the best you can alone , without the help of any one . 
You must fight single handed against us two . 
It shall be done , since it is your will . 
Then he takes him and shuts him up . 
And now they bring him arms for his body , and lead out his horse , which they give to him , and he mounts . 
The two champions , being now assured about the lion , which is shut up in the room , come at him to injure him and do him harm . 
And he what does he do against these two devils ? Urged on by shame and fear , he defends himself with all his strength . 
He strains every nerve , and exerts himself to deal heavy , and telling blows they lost nothing by his gifts , for he returned their attentions with double measure . 
If now he could escape from there , he would return him the kindness with full measure and full bushel , without any discount whatsoever . 
He looks about in all directions , but sees no way of escape . 
He hears the blows of the dangerous and desperate fight , and in his grief he rages and is beside himself . 
Meanwhile , my lord Yvain was hard pressed and sweating freely , for he found that the two fellows were very strong , fierce , and persistent . 
So my lord Yvain had good reason to fear his death , yet he managed to hold his own until the lion extricated himself by continued scratching beneath the threshold . 
If the rascals are not killed now , surely they will never be . 
For so long as the lion knows them to be alive , they can never obtain truce or peace with him . 
He seizes one of them , and pulls him down to earth like a tree trunk . 
The wretches are terrified , and there is not a man present who does not rejoice . 
For he whom the lion has dragged down will never be able to rise again , unless the other succours him . 
Then he dismounts , wishing to help and save the other one from the lion , who holds him fast . 
Nevertheless , he drags the lion back , and sees that he had torn his shoulder from its place . 
Henceforth you may do with me whatever may be your desire . 
Whoever begs and prays for mercy , ought not to have his prayer refused , unless he addresses a heartless man . 
I will no longer defend myself , nor will I ever get up from here with my own strength so I put myself in your hands . 
Speak out then , he says , if thou dost admit that thou art conquered and defeated . 
Sire , he says , it is evident . 
I am defeated in spite of myself , and I surrender , I promise you . 
Then thou needest have no further fear of me , and my lion will leave thee alone . 
Then he is surrounded by all the crowd , who arrive on the scene in haste . 
And for my part , he says . 
I restore her to you . 
Let him who has her keep her . 
I have no concern with her , though I say it not in disparagement . 
Take it not amiss if I do not accept her , for I cannot and must not do so . 
But deliver to me now , if you will , the wretched maidens in your possession . 
The agreement , as you well know , is that they shall all go free . 
What you say is true , he says and I resign and deliver them freely to you there will be no dispute on that score . 
But you will be wise to take my daughter with all my wealth , for she is fair , and charming , and sensible . 
You will never find again such a rich marriage as this . 
Sire , he replies , you do not know of my engagements and my affairs , and I do not dare to explain them to you . 
But I assure you that I cannot do it so let me depart in peace . 
For the damsel , who escorted me hither , is awaiting me . 
She has kept me company , and I would not willingly desert her whatever the future may have in store . 
You are acting haughtily and making a mistake when you disdain to take my daughter at my request . 
Disdain , my lord ? Upon my soul , I do not disdain her . 
Whatever the penalty may be , I cannot marry a wife or tarry here . 
I shall follow the damsel who is my guide for otherwise it cannot be . 
Confound any one , he says , who asks you for your word or promise or pledge . 
If my daughter pleases you , you will return quickly enough . 
You will not return any sooner . 
I think , for having given your word or sworn an oath . 
I release you from all oaths and promises . 
If you are detained by rain or wind , or by nothing at all , it is of no consequence to me . 
I do not hold my daughter so cheap as to bestow her upon you forcibly . 
Now go about your business . 
For it is quite the same to me whether you go or whether you stay . 
Thereupon my lord Yvain turns away and delays no longer in the castle . 
He escorted the poor and ill clad wretches , who were now released from captivity , and whom the lord committed to his care . 
These maidens feel that now they are rich , as they file out in pairs before him from the castle . 
I do not believe that they would rejoice so much as they do now were He who created the whole world to descend to earth from Heaven . 
Now all those people who had insulted him in every possible way come to beseech him for mercy and peace , and escort him on his way . 
He replies that he knows nothing of what they mean . 
I do not understand what you mean , he says but I have nothing against you . 
I do not remember that you ever said anything that harmed me . 
They are very glad for what they hear , and loudly praise his courtesy , and after escorting him a long distance , they all commend him to God . 
Then the damsels , after asking his permission , separated from him . 
Then he , who is anxious to be gone , says that he hopes God will save them all . 
Go , he says , and may God conduct you into your countries safe and happy . 
Then they continue their way joyfully and my lord Yvain departs in the other direction . 
But when she heard news of the arrival of the maiden and of the Knight with the Lion . 
There never was such joy as she felt within her heart . 
For now she thinks that , if she insists , her sister will cede her a part of her inheritance . 
The damsel had long lain sick , and had just recovered from her malady . 
It had seriously affected her , as was apparent from her face . 
Straightway she went forth to meet them , greeting them and honouring them in every way she could . 
There is no need to speak of the happiness that prevailed that night in the house . 
No mention will be made of it , for the story would be too long to tell . 
I pass over all that , until they mounted next morning and went away . 
They rode until they saw the town where King Arthur had been staying for a fortnight or more . 
If this single day had passed , she would have had the reasonable and legal right to claim the heritage for herself alone . 
But more stands in the way than she thinks or believes . 
That night they spent outside the town in a small and humble house , where , in accordance with their desire , they were not recognised . 
At the first sign of dawn the next morning they necessarily issue forth , but ensconce themselves in hiding until broad daylight . 
So she said to the King My lord , time passes . 
The noon hour will soon be gone , and this is the last day . 
As you see , I am prepared to defend my claim . 
If my sister were going to return , there would be nothing to do but await her arrival . 
But I may praise God that she is not coming back again . 
It is evident that she cannot better her affairs , and that her trouble has been for naught . 
For my part , I have been ready all the time up to this last day , to prove my claim to what is mine . 
It is not yet time to pack up , for it is my belief that your sister will yet arrive in time . 
Before the King had finished , he saw the Knight with the Lion and the damsel with him . 
They two were advancing alone , having slipped away from the lion , who had stayed where they spent the night . 
The damsel , after being kindly welcomed by all , went to where the King was sitting . 
When she had come before him , she spoke to him thus God save the King and his household . 
If my rights in this dispute can be settled by a champion , then it will be done by this knight who has followed me hither . 
This frank and courteous knight had many other things to do elsewhere but he felt such pity for me that he cast aside all his other affairs for the sake of mine . 
Nor do I ask for anything that is thine , the other replied for thou hast nothing , and nothing shalt thou have . 
Thou canst never talk so much as to gain anything by thy words . 
Thou mayest dry up with grief . 
But I cannot disregard my claim , for I am in too great need of it . 
So I should be much obliged to you if you would give me what is rightly mine . 
Surely , the other said , any one would be a fool to consider thy demands . 
So they talked until their conversation ceased , and then produced the knights in the middle of the court . 
Then all the people crowd about , as people are wont to do when they wish to witness blows in battle or in joust . 
But those who were about to fight did not recognise each other , though their relations were wont to be very affectionate . 
Then do they not love each other now ? I would answer you both yes and no . 
And I shall prove that each answer is correct . 
In truth , my lord Gawain loves Yvain and regards him as his companion , and so does Yvain regard him , wherever he may be . 
Is not that a perfect and lofty love ? Yes , surely . 
Upon my word , it is a wondrous thing , that Love and mortal Hate should dwell together . 
But upon the ground floor there may be several apartments for there are halls and sleeping rooms . 
Just now Hate is in the saddle , and spurs and pricks forward as she can , to get ahead of Love who is indisposed to move . 
The enemies are these very men who love each other with such a holy love for love , which is neither false nor feigned , is a precious and a holy thing . 
In this case Love is completely blind , and Hate , too , is deprived of sight . 
For if Love had recognised these two men , he must have forbidden each to attack the other , or to do any thing to cause him harm . 
In this respect , then , Love is blind and discomfited and beguiled for , though he sees them , he fails to recognise those who rightly belong to him . 
And though Hate is unable to tell why one of them should hate the other , yet she tries to engage them wrongfully , so that each hates the other mortally . 
You know , of course , that he cannot be said to love a man who would wish to harm him and see him dead . 
How then ? Does Yvain wish to kill his friend , my lord Gawain ? Yes , and the desire is mutual . 
One would not wish to injure or harm the other , in return for all that God has done for man , or for all the empire of Rome . 
In ignorance of each other's identity , they both drew off and took their distance . 
At this first shock , their lances break , though they were stout , and made of ash . 
Not a word do they exchange , for if they had stopped to converse their meeting would have been different . 
In that case , no blow would have been dealt with lance or sword they would have kissed and embraced each other rather than sought each other's harm . 
For now they attack each other with injurious intent . 
The condition of the swords is not improved , nor that of the helmets and shields , which are dented and split and the edges of the swords are nicked and dulled . 
And their hauberks are so torn , and their shields so broken in pieces , that neither one escaped without wounds . 
Their breath is almost exhausted with the labour of the strife they hammer away at each other so lustily that every hyacinth and emerald set in their helmets is crushed and smashed . 
For they give each other such a battering with their pommels upon the helmets that they are quite stunned , as they almost beat out each other's brains . 
However , they do not long delay , but run at each other again more fiercely than before . 
And all declare that they never saw two more courageous knights . 
This fight between them is no jest , but they are in grim earnest . 
They will never be repaid for their merits and deserts . 
And the younger one said she would leave it to the King , and would not gainsay him in anything . 
And the King replied that he would take no hand in making peace , for the elder sister is so cruel that she has no desire for it . 
Then both withdraw to rest themselves , each thinking within himself that , however long he has had to wait , he now at last has met his match . 
For some time they thus seek repose , without daring to resume the fight . 
They feel no further desire to fight , because of the night which is growing dark , and because of the respect they feel for each other's might . 
These two considerations keep them apart , and urge them to keep the peace . 
But before they leave the field they will discover each other's identity , and joy and mercy will be established between them . 
My brave and courteous lord Yvain was the first to speak . 
My lord , he says , the night comes on ! I think no blame or reproach will attach to us if the night comes between us . 
You know well how to land your blows and how to make good use of them I have never known a knight who was so skilled in dealing blows . 
It was against my will that I received all the blows you have bestowed on me to day I am stunned by the blows you have I struck upon my head . 
Upon my word , my lord Gawain replies , you are not so stunned and faint but that I am as much so , or more . 
But however that may be , since you wish me to inform you of my name , it shall not be kept from you my name is Gawain the son of King Lot . 
But I wish to make you such amends and do you such honour in this affair that I will confess myself to have been defeated . 
Will you do so much for my sake ? my gentle lord Gawain asks him surely I should be presumptuous to accept any such amends from you . 
This honour shall never be claimed as mine , but it shall be yours , to whom I resign it . 
Ah , fair sire , do not speak so . 
For that could never be . 
I am so wounded and exhausted that I cannot endure more . 
Surely , you have no cause to be concerned . 
Since you have tarried in order to hear and learn the cause of it , it is right to let you know the truth . 
After each had informed the other of his name , we recognised each other , but not until we had fought it out . 
But I would rather be defeated than killed by a friend in battle . 
Then my lord Yvain's blood was stirred , as he said to him in reply Fair dear sire , so help me God , you have no right to say so much . 
Let my lord , The King , well know in this battle I am surely the one who has been defeated and overcome ! I am the one No , I am . 
Thus each cries out , and both are so honest and courteous that each allows the victory and crown to be the other's prize , while neither one of them will accept it . 
Thus each strives to convince the King and all the people that he has been defeated and overthrown . 
But when he had listened to them for a while , the King terminated the dispute . 
He was well pleased with what he heard and with the sight of them in each other's arms , though they had wounded and injured each other in several places . 
My lords , he says , there is deep affection between you two . 
You give clear evidence of that , when each insists that it is he who has been defeated . 
Now leave it all to me ! For I think I can arrange it in such a way that it will redound to your honour , and every one will give consent . 
Then they both promised him that they would do his will in every particular . 
And the King says that he will decide the quarrel fairly and faithfully . 
Are you there ? Then draw near to me ! I saw plainly some time ago that you were disinheriting her . 
But her right shall no longer be denied for you yourself have avowed the truth to me . 
You must now resign her share to her . 
Sire , she says , if I uttered a foolish and thoughtless word , you ought not to take me up in it . 
For God's sake , sire , do not be hard on me ! You are a king , and you ought to guard against wrong and error . 
The King replies That is precisely why I wish to give your sister her rights for I have never defended what is wrong . 
And you have surely heard how your knight and hers have left the matter in my hands . 
I shall not say what is altogether pleasing to you for your injustice is well known . 
In his desire to honour the other , each one says that he has been defeated . 
That would be the worst thing that could happen to your cause , and I shall be sorry to make such a declaration . 
In fear and apprehension , she replied to him Fair lord , I must now respect your desire , though my heart is very loath to yield . 
Yet , however hard it may go with me , I shall do it , and my sister shall have what belongs to her . 
I give her your own person as a pledge of her share in my inheritance , in order that she may be more assured of it . 
Thus the King conducts the affair until the damsel takes possession of her land , and offers her thanks to him for it . 
Then the two vassals lay aside their arms and separate on equal terms . 
And while they are taking off their armour , they see the lion running up in search of his master . 
As soon as he catches sight of him , he begins to show his joy . 
Then you would have seen people draw aside , and the boldest among them takes to flight . 
My lord Yvain cries out Stand still , all ! Why do you flee ? No one is chasing you . 
Have no fear that yonder lion will do you harm . 
Believe me , please , when I say that he is mine , and I am his , and we are both companions . 
And my lord Gawain said to him Sir companion , so help me God , you have overwhelmed me with shame this day . 
I did not deserve the service that you did me in killing the giant to save my nephews and my niece . 
I have been thinking about you for some time , and I was troubled because it was said that we were acquainted as loving friends . 
Then the two knights had to be removed to a sick room and infirmary , for they needed a doctor and piaster to cure their wounds . 
King Arthur , who loved them well , had them both brought before him , and summoned a surgeon whose knowledge of surgery was supreme . 
He exercised his art in curing them , until he had healed their wounds as well and as quickly as possible . 
When he had cured them both , my lord Yvain . 
As soon as my lord Yvain felt that he was cured and sound again , he departed without the knowledge of any one . 
But he had with him his lion , who never in his life wished to desert him . 
They travelled until they saw the spring and made the rain descend . 
The lady fears for her town , lest it , too , will crumble away the walls totter , and the tower rocks so that it is on the verge of falling down . 
The bravest Turk would rather be a captive in Persia than be shut up within those walls . 
In the future we shall never be secure in this town , nor dare to pass beyond the walls and gate . 
You know full well that , were some one to summon together all your knights for this cause , the best of them would not dare to step forward . 
If it is true that you have no one to defend your spring , you will appear ridiculous and humiliated . 
The lady replies Do thou , who art so wise , tell me what plan I can devise , and I will follow thy advice . 
Indeed , lady , if I had any plan , I should gladly propose it to you . 
But you have great need of a wiser counsellor . 
But , if it please God , let us hear now what is your opinion and plan for people always say that in time of need one can test his friend . 
I have no objection , the lady says . 
With delicate courtesy , Lunete procured at once for her a very precious relic , and the lady fell upon her knees . 
Thus Lunete very courteously accepted her upon her oath . 
In administering the oath , she forgot nothing which it might be an advantage to insert . 
If I have the strength and ability , I will restore to him the love and favour which with his lady he once enjoyed . 
Lunete has now done well her work there was nothing which she had desired so much as the object which she had now attained . 
They had already got out for her a palfrey with an easy pace . 
Gladly and in a happy frame of mind Lunete mounts and rides away , until she finds beneath the pine tree him whom she did not expect to find so near at hand . 
Indeed , she had thought that she would have to seek afar before discovering him . 
As soon as she saw him , she recognised him by the lion , and coming toward him rapidly , she dismounted upon the solid earth . 
My lord Yvain was greatly elated at the news he hears , and which he had never expected to hear again . 
He could not sufficiently show his gratitude to her who had accomplished this for him . 
He kisses her eyes , and then her face , saying Surely , my sweet friend , I can never repay you for this service . 
I fear that ability and time will fail me to do you the honour and service which is your due . 
If I have paid this debt I owed , I am entitled to only so much gratitude as the man who borrows another's goods and then discharges the obligation . 
Even now I do not consider that I have paid you the debt I owed . 
Indeed you have , as God sees me , more than five hundred thousand times . 
Now , when you are ready , let us go . 
But have you told her who I am ? No , I have not , upon my word . 
She knows you only by the name of The Knight with the Lion . 
Thus conversing they went along , with the lion following after them , until they all three came to the town . 
They said not a word to any man or woman there , until they arrived where the lady was . 
Then the lady bade him rise , and said He may dispose of all my power ! I shall be very happy , if possible , to accomplish his wish and his desire . 
Surely , my lady , Lunete replied , I would not say it if it were not true . 
God , whose will it is that there should be unending peace and love between you and him , has caused me to find him this day so near at hand . 
In order to test the truth of this , I have only one thing to say lady , dismiss the grudge you bear him ! For he has no other mistress than you . 
This is your husband , my lord Yvain . 
My lord Yvain hears and understands that his cause is going well , and that he will be peacefully reconciled with her . 
So he says Lady , one ought to have mercy on a sinner . 
I have had to pay , and dearly to pay , for my mad act . 
It was madness that made me stay away , and I now admit my guilt and sin . 
I have been bold , indeed , in daring to present myself to you but if you will deign to keep me now , I never again shall do you any wrong . 
She replied I will surely consent to that for if I did not do all I could to establish peace between you and me , I should be guilty of perjury . 
So , if you please , I grant your request . 
Now my lord Yvain is reconciled , and you may believe that , in spite of the trouble he has endured , he was never so happy for anything . 
All has turned out well at last for he is beloved and treasured by his lady , and she by him . 
His troubles no longer are in his mind for he forgets them all in the joy he feels with his precious wife . 
ENDNOTES NOTE Endnotes supplied by Prof . 
Foerster are indicated by all other endnotes are supplied by W. W. Comfort . 
cele feste , qui tant coste , Qu'an doit clamer la pantecoste . 
This rhyme is frequently met in mediaeval narrative poems . 
The contemporary degeneracy of lovers and of the art of love is a favourite theme of mediaeval poets . 
Roman de la Rose , , for the stinking manure pit . 
The forest of Broceliande is in Brittany , and in it Chretien places the marvellous spring of Barenton , of which we read in the sequel . 
In his version the poet forgets that the sea separates the court at Carduel from the forest of Broceliande . 
His readers , however , probably passed over this lapsus . 
The most famous passage relating to this forest and its spring is found in Wace , Le Roman de Rou et des dues de Normandie , vv . 
further the informing note by W. L. Holland , Chretien von Troies , p . 
This grotesque portrait of the vilain is perfectly conventional in aristocratic poetry , and is also applied to some Saracens in the epic poems . 
W. W. Comfort in Pub . 
of the Modern Language Association of America , xxi . 
, and in The Dublin Review , July . 
For the description of the magic fountain , cf . 
W. A. Nitze , The Fountain Defended in Modern Philology , vii . 
G. L. Hamilton , Storm making Springs , etc . 
, in Romantic Review , ii . 
A. F. Grimme in Germania , xxxiii . 
O. M. Johnston in Transactions and Proceedings of the American Philological Association , xxxiii . 
Eugen Kolbing , Christian von Troyes Yvain und die Brandanuslegende in Ztsch . 
fur vergleichende Literaturgeschichte , pp . 
and elsewhere in Celtic legend to trees teeming with singing birds , in which the souls of the blessed are incorporated . 
fur romanische Philologie , iv . 
, who gives many other instances of boasting after meals . 
These names are mentioned here in connection with the brave exploits which Christian knights , while in their cups , may boast that they will accomplish . 
It is evident in this passage that Chretien's version is not clear the reader cannot be sure in what sort of an apartment Yvain is secreted . 
The passage is perfectly clear , however , in the Welsh Owein , as shown by A. C. L. Brown in Romanic Review , iii . 
, On the Independent Character of the Welsh Owain' , where he argues convincingly for an original older than either the extant French of Welsh versions . 
The damsel's surprise and fright at the sight of Yvain , which puzzled Professor Foerster , is satisfactorily explained by J. Acher in Ztsch . 
fur franzosische Sprache und Literatur , xxxv . 
For magic rings , cf . 
A. Hertel , Verzauberte Oertlichkeiten , etc . 
D. B. Easter , The Magic Elements in the romans d'aventure and the romans bretons . 
Much has been written on the widespread belief that a dead person's wounds would bleed afresh in the presence of his murderer . 
The passage in our text is interesting as being the earliest literary reference to the belief . 
, Scott , and Schiller . 
The suspected culprit might be subjected to this ordeal as part of the inquisitional method to determine guilt . 
For theories of the origin of this belief and of its use in legal trials , as well as for more extended bibliography , cf . 
Karl Lehmann in Germanistische Abhandlungen fur Konrad von Maurer , pp . 
C. V. Christensen , Baareproven . 
W. L. Holland in his note for this passage recalls Schiller's Jungfrau von Orleans , Act III . 
, and Shakespeare , first part of King Henry IV . 
When that this body did contain a spirit , A kingdom for it was too small a bound But now two paces of the vilest earth Is room enough . 
Foerster regards this excuse for Kay's defeat as ironical . 
It is hoped that the following passage may have retained in the translation some of the gay animation which clothes this description of a royal entry into a mediaeval town . 
This idea forms the dominating motive , it will be recalled , in Erec et Enide . 
Argonne is the name of a hilly and well wooded district in the north east of France , lying between the Meuse and the Aisne . 
An allusion to the well known epic tradition embodied in the Chanson de Roland . 
It was common for mediaeval poets to give names to both the horses and the swords of their heroes . 
For the faithful lion in the Latin bestiaries and mediaeval romances , see the long note of W. L. Holland , Chretien von Troies , p . 
, and G. Baist in Zeitschrift fur romanische Philologie , xxi . 
, published in the Romanische Bibliothek . 
This is the first of three references in this poem to the abduction of Guinevere as fully narrated in the poem of Lancelot . 
The other references are in v . 
Yvain here states the theory of the judicial trial by combat . 
For another instance see Lancelot , v . 
fur romanische Philogie , ix . 
, and L. Jordan , id . 
A similar description of a distressed damsel wandering at night in a forest is found in Berte aus grans pies , by Adenet le Roi . 
The lion is forgotten for the moment , but will appear again v . 
This entire passage belongs in the catagory of widespread myths which tell of a tribute of youths or maidens paid to some cruel monster , from which some hero finally obtains deliverance . 
Instances are presented in the adventures of Theseus and Tristan . 
It appears to be the poet's prerogative in all epochs of social history to bemoan the degeneracy of true love in his own generation . 
The sleeves of shirts were detachable , and were sewed on afresh when a clean garment was put on . 
This was an axiom of feudal society , and occurs more frequently in feudal literature than any other statement of mediaeval social relations . 
I shall very gladly do so , being so devoted to her service as to do anything in the world for her , without any intention of flattery . 
But upon my word , I am not one to wish to flatter my lady . 
I will simply say The Countess is worth as many queens as a gem is worth of pearls and sards . 
Here Chretien begins his book about the Knight of the Cart . 
The material and the treatment of it are given and furnished to him by the Countess , and he is simply trying to carry out her concern and intention . 
Here he begins the story . 
Upon a certain Ascension Day King Arthur had come from Caerleon , and had held a very magnificent court at Camelot as was fitting on such a day . 
After the feast the King did not quit his noble companions , of whom there were many in the hall . 
The Queen was present , too , and with her many a courteous lady able to converse in French . 
And Kay , who had furnished the meal , was eating with the others who had served the food . 
And be assured that thou shalt die before thou canst ever succour them . 
The King replies that he must needs endure what he has not the power to change nevertheless , he is filled with grief . 
Many who were in the palace heard this challenge , and the whole court was in an uproar . 
Kay , too , heard the news as he sat at meat with those who served . 
No other reward or wages do I wish in return for the service I have given you . 
My mind is quite made up to go away immediately . 
Sire , says Kay , no need of that . 
I would not accept for each day's pay a measure of fine pure gold . 
Thereupon , the King in great dismay went off to seek the Queen . 
My lady , he says , you do not know the demand that the seneschal makes of me . 
He asks me for leave to go away , and says he will no longer stay at court the reason of this I do not know . 
But he will do at your request what he will not do for me . 
Go to him now , my lady dear . 
The King sends the Queen to the seneschal , and she goes to him . 
I am grieved to say that I have been told it is your intention to leave the King . 
How does this come about ? What motive have you in your mind ? I cannot think that you are so sensible or courteous as usual . 
I want to ask you to remain stay with us here , and grant my prayer . 
Lady , he says , I give you thanks nevertheless , I shall not remain . 
The Queen again makes her request , and is joined by all the other knights . 
And Kay informs her that he is growing tired of a service which is unprofitable . 
Then the Queen prostrates herself at full length before his feet . 
Kay beseeches her to rise , but she says that she will never do so until he grants her request . 
Then Kay promises her to remain , provided the King and she will grant in advance a favour he is about to ask . 
Kay , she says , he will grant it , whatever it may be . 
Come now , and we shall tell him that upon this condition you will remain . 
So Kay goes away with the Queen to the King's presence . 
The Queen says I have had hard work to detain Kay but I have brought him here to you with the understanding that you will do what he is going to ask . 
The King sighed with satisfaction , and said that he would perform whatever request he might make . 
Sire , says Kay , hear now what I desire , and what is the gift you have promised me . 
I esteem myself very fortunate to gain such a boon with your consent . 
Sire , you have pledged your word that you would entrust to me my lady here , and that we should go after the knight who awaits us in the forest . 
Though the King is grieved , he trusts him with the charge , for he never went back upon his word . 
But it made him so ill humoured and displeased that it plainly showed in his countenance . 
The Queen , for her part , was sorry too , and all those of the household say that Kay had made a proud , outrageous , and mad request . 
Then the King took the Queen by the hand , and said My lady , you must accompany Kay without making objection . 
And Kay said Hand her over to me now , and have no fear , for I shall bring her back perfectly happy and safe . 
The King gives her into his charge , and he takes her off . 
After them all the rest go out , and there is not one who is not sad . 
The Queen walked up to the palfrey , which was neither restive nor hard mouthed . 
She thought she had spoken in a very low tone but Count Guinable heard her , who was standing by when she mounted . 
When they started away , as great a lament was made by all the men and women present as if she already lay dead upon a bier . 
They do not believe that she will ever in her life come back . 
The seneschal in his impudence takes her where that other knight is awaiting her . 
For my part , I cannot restrain myself from going in pursuit of them at once . 
Ah , fair nephew , the King replied , you have spoken courteously . 
And since you have undertaken the affair , order our horses to be led out bridled and saddled that there may be no delay in setting out . 
The horses are at once brought out , all ready and with the saddles on . 
First the King mounts , then my lord Gawain , and all the others rapidly . 
Each one , wishing to be of the party , follows his own will and starts away . 
Some were armed , but there were not a few without their arms . 
My lord Gawain was armed , and he bade two squires lead by the bridle two extra steeds . 
And as they thus approached the forest , they saw Kay's horse running out and they recognised him , and saw that both reins of the bridle were broken . 
The horse was running wild , the stirrup straps all stained with blood , and the saddle bow was broken and damaged . 
Every one was chagrined at this , and they nudged each other and shook their heads . 
The knight first saluted my lord Gawain , and his greeting my lord Gawain returned . 
And he answers him Choose whichever you prefer . 
Then the one he had just left fell dead , for he had ridden him hard that day , so that he was used up and overworked . 
The knight without delay goes pricking through the forest , and my lord Gawain follows in pursuit of him with all speed , until he reaches the bottom of a hill . 
He had overtaken a cart . 
Then he cries out Dwarf , for God's sake , tell me now if thou hast seen my lady , the Queen , pass by here . 
Then he kept on his way without giving further heed . 
The knight hesitated only for a couple of steps before getting in . 
Yet , it was unlucky for him that he shrank from the disgrace , and did not jump in at once for he will later rue his delay . 
So he jumps in , since love will have it so , feeling no concern about the shame , since he is prompted by love's commands . 
And my lord Gawain presses on in haste after the cart , and when he finds the knight sitting in it , his surprise is great . 
Tell me , he shouted to the dwarf , if thou knowest anything of the Queen . 
Thereupon they start ahead , one mounted on his horse , the other two riding in the cart , and thus they proceed in company . 
Late in the afternoon they arrive at a town , which , you must know , was very rich and beautiful . 
He conducts the knight to a lodging place and Gawain follows the dwarf closely to a tower , which stood on the same level over against the town . 
Beyond there stretched a meadow , and the tower was built close by , up on a lofty eminence of rock , whose face formed a sharp precipice . 
Following the horse and cart , Gawain entered the tower . 
In the hall they met a damsel elegantly attired , than whom there was none fairer in the land , and with her they saw coming two fair and charming maidens . 
Then my lord Gawain dismounts , and valets come forward to relieve the two knights of their armour . 
The damsel ordered two green mantles to be brought , which they put on . 
When the hour for supper came , a sumptuous repast was set . 
The damsel sat at table beside my lord Gawain . 
They would not have changed their lodging place to seek any other , for all that evening the damsel showed them gear honour , and provided them with fair and pleasant company . 
The knight who came riding on the cart replies at once Tell me , he says , for what cause this bed is inaccessible . 
Being thoroughly informed of this , she answers unhesitatingly It is not your place to ask or make such an inquiry . 
So rich a couch has not been prepared for you , and you would pay dearly for ever harbouring such a thought . 
He replies You will see about that presently . 
Am I to see it ? . 
By my head , the knight replies , I know not who is to pay the penalty . 
But whoever may object or disapprove , I intend to lie upon this bed and repose there at my ease . 
The furs were not of skinned vair but of sable the covering he had on him would have been fitting for a king . 
The mattress was not made of straw or rushes or of old mats . 
At midnight there descended from the rafters suddenly a lance , as with the intention of pinning the knight through the flanks to the coverlet and the white sheets where he lay . 
To the lance there was attached a pennon all ablaze . 
The coverlet , the bedclothes , and the bed itself all caught fire at once . 
And the tip of the lance passed so close to the knight's side that it cut the skin a little , without seriously wounding him . 
In the morning , at daybreak , the damsel of the tower had Mass celebrated on their account , and had them rise and dress . 
The damsel came to another window close by , and there my lord Gawain conversed with her privately for a while about something , I know not what . 
and alongside three damsels walked , mourning bitterly . 
Behind the bier they saw a crowd approaching , with a tall knight in front , leading a fair lady by the horse's rein . 
The knight at the window knew that it was the Queen . 
He continued to gaze at her attentively and with delight as long as she was visible . 
And when he could no longer see her , he was minded to throw himself out and break his body down below . 
And he would have let himself fall out had not my lord Gawain seen him , and drawn him back , saying I beg you , sire , be quiet now . 
For God's sake , never think again of committing such a mad deed . 
It is wrong for you to despise your life . 
His life henceforth is sure to be one of shame , vexation , and unhappiness . 
The knights then courteously and politely took leave of the damsel , first saluting her , and then going off in the direction taken by the crowd they had seen . 
Thus they rode out from the town without addressing them . 
They proceeded quickly in the direction they had seen taken by the Queen , but they did not overtake the procession , which had advanced rapidly . 
After leaving the fields , the knights enter an enclosed place , and find a beaten road . 
Then I will tell you the truth , says she . 
This choice is certainly to be avoided . 
and yet it is the less dangerous of the two . 
In addition there are a number of other obstacles of which I will say nothing . 
The other bridge is still more impracticable and much more perilous , never having been crossed by man . 
It is just like a sharp sword , and therefore all the people call it the sword bridge' . 
Now I have told you all the truth I know . 
But they ask of her once again Damsel , deign to show us these two passages . 
To which the damsel makes reply This road here is the most direct to the water bridge , and that one yonder leads straight to the sword bridge . 
The other answers Then I must go uncomplainingly to the sword bridge , which I agree to do . 
Thereupon , they all three part , each one commending the others very courteously to God . 
And when she sees them departing , she says Each one of you owes me a favour of my choosing , whenever I may choose to ask it . 
Take care not to forget that . 
We shall surely not forget it , sweet friend , both the knights call out . 
Only one creature he has in mind , and for her his thought is so occupied that he neither sees nor hears aught else . 
And his horse bears him along rapidly , following no crooked road , but the best and the most direct and thus proceeding unguided , he brings him into an open plain . 
By this time the afternoon was well advanced , and yet the knight , unchanged and unwearied , pursued his thoughts . 
The horse , being very thirsty , sees clearly the ford , and as soon as he sees it , hastens toward it . 
Then he on the other side cries out Knight , I am guarding the ford , and forbid you to cross . 
He neither gives him heed , nor hears his words , being still deep in thought . 
In the meantime , his horse advanced rapidly toward the water . 
But he is so deep in thought that he does not hear him . 
And the horse , quickly leaving the bank , leaps into the ford and greedily begins to drink . 
And the knight says he shall pay for this , that his shield and the hauberk he wears upon his back shall afford him no protection . 
His lance flew from his hand and the shield from his neck . 
Then the knight replies to him Whoever heard you or saw you , let him be damned , so far as I am concerned . 
I was probably deep in thought when you forbade me to cross the ford . 
But be assured that I would make you reset it , if I could just lay one of my hands on your bridle . 
And the other replies Why , what of that ? If you dare , you may seize my bridle here and now . 
I do not esteem your proud threats so much as a handful of ashes . 
And he replies That suits me perfectly . 
However the affair may turn out , I should like to lay my hands on you . 
He answers That will I not do , upon my word for I suppose thou wouldst run away as soon as thou hadst escaped my grip . 
After catching and mounting him , he seizes the shield by the shoulder straps and lays his lance in rest . 
Then each spurs toward the other as fast as their horses can carry them . 
And he who had to defend the ford first attacks the other , striking him so hard that his lance is completely splintered . 
The other strikes him in return so that he throws him prostrate into the ford , and the water closes over him . 
Having accomplished that , he draws back and dismounts , thinking he could drive and chase away a hundred such . 
While he draws from the scabbard his sword of steel , the other jumps up and draws his excellent flashing blade . 
Then they clash again , advancing and covering themselves with the shields which gleam with gold . 
Then he runs at him and presses him so hard that the other knight gives way and flees . 
However reluctant he may be , he leaves the ford and crossing free . 
Then , with sword drawn , he approaches the knight who cries in sore dismay For God's sake and for my own , show me the mercy I ask of you . 
And so on thee I will have mercy for I ought not to refuse thee when thou hast besought me . 
But first , thou shalt give me thy word to constitute thyself my prisoner whenever I may wish to summon thee . 
Though it was hard to do so , he promised him . 
Set him free at my request , upon condition that when the time comes , I shall do my utmost to repay thee in any way that thou shalt choose . 
Then he declares himself satisfied with the promise she has made , and sets the knight at liberty . 
Then she is ashamed and anxious , thinking that he will recognise her , which she did not wish . 
But he goes away at once , the knight and the damsel commending him to God , and taking leave of him . 
The damsel greets him prudently and courteously , and he replies Damsel , God grant you health and happiness . 
By my eyes , the damsel says , then I retract my offer . 
And he , since it is unavoidable , lets her have her way , though his heart grieves to give consent . 
He feels only reluctance now but greater distress will be his when it is time to go to bed . 
The damsel , too , who leads him away , will pass through sorrow and heaviness . 
For it is possible that she will love him so that she will not wish to part with him . 
Here she had constructed for her residence a quantity of handsome rooms , and a large and roomy hall . 
Riding along a river bank , they approached their lodging place , and a drawbridge was lowered to allow them to pass . 
Crossing the bridge , they entered in , and found the hall open with its roof of tiles . 
No valets , servants , or squires were to be found or seen . 
The knight , removing his shield from about his neck , hangs it upon a hook , and , taking his lance , lays it above upon a rack . 
Then he dismounts from his horse , as does the damsel from hers . 
The knight , for his part , was pleased that she did not care to wait for him to help her to dismount . 
Having dismounted , she runs directly to a room and brings him a short mantle of scarlet cloth which she puts on him . 
The hall was by no means dark for beside the light from the stars , there were many large twisted candles lighted there , so that the illumination was very bright . 
Wash your hands , and then sit down , when you feel like doing so . 
The hour and the meal , as you can see , demand that you should do so . 
Feel no concern or embarrassment for then you may come to me at once , if you will keep the promise you have made . 
And he replies I will keep my word , and will return when I think the time has come . 
Then he went out , and stayed in the courtyard until he thought it was time to return and keep the promise he had made . 
Going back into the hall , he sees nothing of her who would be his mistress for she was not there . 
Not finding or seeing her , he said Wherever she may be , I shall look for her until I find her . 
He makes no delay in his search , being bound by the promise he had made her . 
Entering one of the rooms , he hears a damsel cry aloud , and it was the very one with whom he was about to lie . 
She , thinking that he had come of course to help her , cried aloud Help , help , thou knight , who art my guest . 
At the door there stood as guards two knights completely armed and with swords drawn . 
The knight hesitated at the door , and thought God , what can I do ? I am engaged in no less an affair than the quest of Queen Guinevere . 
I ought not to have the heart of a hare , when for her sake I have engaged in such a quest . 
If cowardice puts its heart in me , and if I follow its dictates , I shall never attain what I seek . 
I am disgraced , if I stand here indeed , I am ashamed even to have thought of holding back . 
My heart is very sad and oppressed now I am so ashamed and distressed that I would gladly die for having hesitated here so long . 
Then he steps to the door , thrusting in his head and shoulders glancing up , he sees two swords descending . 
He draws back , and the knights could not check their strokes they had wielded them with such force that the swords struck the floor , and both were broken in pieces . 
When he sees that the swords are broken , he pays less attention to the axes , fearing and dreading them much less . 
Rushing in among them , he strikes first one guard in the side and then another . 
But he , without delay , and without complaining of his wound , presses on more rapidly , until he strikes between the temples him who was assaulting his hostess . 
Before he departs , he will try to keep his pledge to her . 
He makes him stand up reluctantly . 
So he leaped quickly between the bed and the wall , and called to them Come on now , all of you . 
If there were thirty seven of you , you would have all the fight you wish , with me so favourably placed I shall never be overcome by you . 
And the damsel watching him , exclaimed By my eyes , you need have no thought of that henceforth where I am . 
Then at once she dismisses the knights and the men at arms , who retire from there at once , without delay or objection . 
And the damsel continues Sire you have well defended me against the men of my household . 
Come now , and I'll lead you on . 
Hand in hand they enter the hall , but he was not at all pleased , and would have willingly dispensed with her . 
In the midst of the hall a bed had been set up , the sheets of which were by no means soiled , but were white and wide and well spread out . 
The bed was not of shredded straw or of coarse spreads . 
But a covering of two silk cloths had been laid upon the couch . 
The damsel lay down first , but without removing her chemise . 
He had great trouble in removing his hose and in untying the knots . 
He sweated with the trouble of it all yet , in the midst of all the trouble , his promise impels and drives him on . 
Is this then an actual force ? Yes , virtually so for he feels that he is in duty bound to take his place by the damsel's side . 
It is his promise that urges him and dictates his act . 
So he lies down at once , but like her , he does not remove his shirt . 
Not once does he look at her , nor show her any courtesy . 
Why not ? Because his heart does not go out to her . 
She was certainly very fair and winsome , but not every one is pleased and touched by what is fair and winsome . 
The knight has only one heart , and this one is really no longer his , but has been entrusted to some one else , so that he cannot bestow it elsewhere . 
Love , which holds all hearts beneath its sway , requires it to be lodged in a single place . 
All hearts ? No , only those which it esteems . 
And he whom love deigns to control ought to prize himself the more . 
So she said My lord , if you will not feel hurt , I will leave and return to bed in my own room , and you will be more comfortable . 
I do not believe that you are pleased with my company and society . 
Do not esteem me less if I tell you what I think . 
Now take your rest all night , for you have so well kept your promise that I have no right to make further request of you . 
So I commend you to God and shall go away . 
As I understand the case , he has on hand a more perilous and grave affair than any ever undertaken by a knight and may God grant that he succeed in it . 
Then she fell asleep , and remained in bed until the next day's dawn appeared . 
At daybreak she awakes and gets up . 
The knight awakes too , dressing , and putting on his arms , without waiting for any help . 
Then the damsel comes and sees that he is already dressed . 
Upon seeing him , she says May this day be a happy one for you . 
And may it be the same to you , damsel , the knight replies , adding that he is waiting anxiously for some one to bring out his horse . 
And if he assaulted her , he would be disgraced for ever in every court . 
And he says to her No one shall harm you , I promise you , unless he harm me first . 
Then , she says , I will go with you . 
She orders her palfrey to be saddled , and her command is obeyed at once . 
Her palfrey was brought together with the knight's horse . 
Without the aid of any squire , they both mount , and rapidly ride away . 
She talks to him , but not caring for her words , he pays no attention to what she says . 
He likes to think , but dislikes to talk . 
Love very often inflicts afresh the wound it has given him . 
Yet , there is one whose remedy he would gladly seek . 
They follow the roads and paths in the right direction until they come to a spring , situated in the middle of a field , and bordered by a stone basin . 
Some one had forgotten upon the stone a comb of gilded ivory . 
Never since ancient times has wise man or fool seen such a comb . 
In its teeth there was almost a handful of hair belonging to her who had used the comb . 
When the damsel notices the spring , and sees the stone , she does not wish her companion to see it so she turns off in another direction . 
See here , damsel , he cries , you are not going right come this way ! No one , I think , ever went straight who left this road . 
Sire , this is a better way for us , the damsel says , I am sure of it . 
So come now , if you will , for I shall continue along this way . 
Then they go forward until they come near the stone basin and see the comb . 
The knight says I surely never remember to have seen so beautiful a comb as this . 
Let me have it , the damsel says . 
Willingly , damsel , he replies . 
Then he stoops over and picks it up . 
While holding it , he looks at it steadfastly , gazing at the hair until the damsel begins to laugh . 
When he sees her doing so , he begs her to tell him why she laughs . 
And she says Never mind , for I will never tell you . 
Why not ? he asks . 
Because I don't wish to do so . 
Your appeal is so strong , she says , that I will tell you and keep nothing back . 
I am sure , as I am of anything , that this comb belonged to the Queen . 
When he hears that , he has not strength to keep from bowing his head over his saddle bow . 
And when the damsel sees him thus , she is amazed and terrified , thinking he is about to fall . 
Do not blame her for her fear , for she thought him in a faint . 
And the damsel dismounts , and runs as quickly as possible to support and succour him for she would not have wished for anything to see him fall . 
Willing that she should have the comb , he gives it to her , first pulling out the hair so carefully that he tears none of it . 
Never will the eye of man see anything receive such honour as when he begins to adore these tresses . 
A hundred thousand times he raises them to his eyes and mouth , to his forehead and face he manifests his joy in every way , considering himself rich and happy now . 
He lays them in his bosom near his heart , between the shirt and the flesh . 
James he has no need for he has such confidence in this hair that he requires no other aid . 
But what was this hair like ? If I tell the truth about it , you will think I am a mad teller of lies . 
When the mart is full at the yearly fair of St . 
and when the goods are most abundantly displayed , even then the knight would not take all this wealth , unless he had found these tresses too . 
But why should I make a long story of it ? The damsel mounts again with the comb in her possession while he revels and delights in the tresses in his bosom . 
Just where the way was narrowest , they see a knight approach . 
He loves me , but he is very foolish to do so . 
In person , and by messenger , he has been long wooing me . 
I do not doubt that he is delighted now , and is as satisfied as if he had me already in his power . 
But now I shall see what you can do , and I shall see how brave you are , and it will become apparent whether your escort can protect me . 
If you can protect me now , I shall not fail to proclaim that you are brave and very worthy . 
While they were proceeding , talking thus , the knight , who was alone , rode rapidly toward them on the run . 
He was the more eager to make haste , because he felt more sure of success he felt that he was lucky now to see her whom he most dearly loves . 
The knight is greatly elated when the damsel greets him though she does not take the words seriously , and the effort costs her nothing . 
Yet , if he had at this moment been victor in a tournament , he would not have so highly esteemed himself , nor thought he had won such honour and renown . 
Then she says You have no advantage for I am under this knight's escort . 
Surely , the escort is not worth much , he says , and I am going to lead you off at once . 
This knight would have time to eat a bushel of salt before he could defend you from me I think I could never meet a knight from whom I should not win you . 
You shall not be deprived of as much of her as rightly belongs to you . 
You must know , however , that the damsel has come hither under my protection . 
Let her alone now , for you have detained her long enough ! The other gives them leave to burn him , if he does not take her away in spite of him . 
Then the other says It would not be right for me to let you take her away I would sooner fight with you . 
But if we should wish to fight , we could not possibly do it in this narrow road . 
Let us go to some level place a meadow or an open field . 
And he replies that that will suit him perfectly Certainly , I agree to that you are quite right , this road is too narrow . 
My horse is so much hampered here that I am afraid he will crush his flank before I can turn him around . 
Then with great difficulty he turns , and his horse escapes without any wound or harm . 
Come on now , let us begin our search we shall find in the vicinity some large , broad , and open space . 
Then they proceed to a meadow , where there were maids , knights , and damsels playing at divers games in this pleasant place . 
They were not all engaged in idle sport , but were playing backgammon and chess or dice , and were evidently agreeably employed . 
Most were engaged in such games as these but the others there were engaged in sports , dancing , singing , tumbling , leaping , and wrestling with each other . 
A knight somewhat advanced in years was on the other side of the meadow , seared upon a sorrel Spanish steed . 
His bridle and saddle were of gold , and his hair was turning grey . 
One hand hung at his side with easy grace . 
On the other side of the field , close by a path , there were twenty three knights mounted on good Irish steeds . 
I know not yet if it be thine , the knight replies to his son . 
In this forest , whence I come , I met her as she was on her way . 
I think God had fetched her there for me , and I have taken her for my own . 
I do not know whether this will be allowed by him whom I see coming after thee he looks as if he is coming to demand her of thee . 
During this conversation the dancing had ceased because of the knight whom they saw , nor were they gaily playing any more because of the disgust and scorn they felt for him . 
Then the old knight remarked Did I not know it ? Fair son , detain the damsel no longer , but let her go . 
And his father says I shall not let thee fight for any reason thou mayest urge . 
Thou art too confident of thy bravery . 
The father answers Fair son , I do not doubt that thou dost really think so , for thou art so confident of thy strength . 
But I do not wish to see thee enter a contest with this knight . 
Then he replies I shall be disgraced if I follow your advice . 
Curse me if I heed your counsel and turn recreant because of you , and do not do my utmost in the fight . 
It is true that a man fares ill among his relatives I could drive a better bargain somewhere else , for you are trying to take me in . 
I am sure that where I am not known , I could act with better grace . 
No one , who did not know me , would try to thwart my will whereas you are annoying and tormenting me . 
I am vexed by your finding fault with me . 
You know well enough that when any one is blamed , he breaks out still more passionately . 
But may God never give me joy if I renounce my purpose because of you rather will I fight in spite of you ! By the faith I bear the Apostle St . 
Peter , his father says , now I see that my request is of no avail . 
I waste my time in rebuking thee but I shall soon devise such means as shall compel thee against thy will to obey my commands and submit to them . 
Straightway summoning all the knights to approach , he bids them lay hands upon his son whom he cannot correct , saying I will have him bound rather than let him fight . 
It seems to me that he must be mad , and that he shows excessive pride , when he refuses to respect my will . 
Then they all join and seize him by the arms and neck . 
Thou wilt be wise to consent to my will and pleasure . 
Perhaps we shall soon find him to be of such a character and bearing that I might let thee have thy way and fight with him . 
To this proposal the other must perforce consent . 
Like the man who has no alternative , he says that he will give in , provided they both shall follow him . 
We may well suppose that he finds in him some merit , when he lets him take her off . 
Now cursed a hundred times be he who ceases longer his sport on his account ! Come , let us go back to our games again . 
Then they resume their games and dances . 
Thereupon the knight turns away , without longer remaining in the field , and the damsel accompanies him . 
The knight was both courteous and wise to enter the church on foot and make his prayer to God , while the damsel held his horse for him until he returned . 
And he tells him it is a cemetery . 
And the other says Take me in , so help you God ! Gladly , sire , and he takes him in . 
or Pampelune and on each tomb there were letters cut , telling the names of those who were destined to be buried there . 
And he began in order to read the names , and came upon some which said Here Gawain is to lie , here Louis , and here Yvain . 
After these three , he read the names of many others among the most famed and cherished knights of this or any other land . 
Among the others , he finds one of marble , which appears to be new , and is more rich and handsome than all the rest . 
Now tell me , what is this large one for ? And the hermit answered I will tell you . 
That is a very large sarcophagus , larger than any that ever was made one so rich and well carved was never seen . 
It is magnificent without , and still more so within . 
No one has ever come back from there , but they are detained in foreign prisons whereas they of the country go and come in and out as they please . 
At once the knight goes to grasp the stone , and raises it without the slightest trouble , more easily than ten men would do who exerted all their strength . 
Will you tell me what it is ? Not I , says the knight , upon my word . 
I am certainly sorry , for that , he says but if you would tell me , you would do me a great favour , and might benefit yourself . 
Who are you , and where do you come from ? I am a knight , as you may see , and I was born in the kingdom of Logre . 
After so much information , I should prefer to be excused . 
Now please tell me , for your part , who is to lie within this tomb . 
Sire , he who shall deliver all those who are held captive in the kingdom whence none escapes . 
And when he had told him all this , the knight commended him to God and all His saints . 
And then , for the first time , he felt free to return to the damsel . 
The old white haired monk escorts him out of the church , and they resume their way . 
While the damsel is mounting , however , the hermit relates to her all that the knight had done inside , and then he begged her to tell him . 
Then the damsel takes leave of him , and rides swiftly after the knight . 
Then those who were following them come up and see the hermit standing alone before the church . 
The knight was inside yonder , and did a very marvellous thing in raising the stone from the huge marble tomb , quite unaided and without the least effort . 
He is bent upon the rescue of the Queen , and doubtless he will rescue her , as well as all the other people . 
You know well that this must be so , for you have often read the inscription upon the stone . 
No knight was ever born of man and woman , and no knight ever sat in a saddle , who was the equal of this man . 
Now we may as well go back , for we should be very foolish to follow him any farther . 
And he replies I agree to that . 
It would be useless to follow him . 
Since it is your pleasure , let us return . 
They were very wise to retrace their steps . 
And all the time the damsel rides close beside the knight , wishing to compel him to give heed to her . 
Then she bids him give her leave to go , and she will turn back , which request he gladly grants . 
Thereupon the damsel departs , and he rides on alone until it grew very late . 
After vespers , about compline , as he pursued his way , he saw a knight returning from the wood where he had been hunting . 
With helmet unlaced , he rode along upon his big grey hunter , to which he had tied the game which God had permitted him to take . 
This gentleman came quickly to meet the knight , offering him hospitality . 
Sire , he says , night will soon be here . 
It is time for you to be reasonable and seek a place to spend the night . 
I have a house of mine near at hand , whither I shall take you . 
No one ever lodged you better than I shall do , to the extent of my resources I shall be very glad , if you consent . 
For my part , I gladly accept , he says . 
The gentleman at once sends his son ahead , to prepare the house and start the preparations for supper . 
They were not natives of the land , but were there in durance , having been long kept there as prisoners away from their native land of Logres . 
Neither the sisters nor the five brothers paid much attention to their father , for they knew well enough that he would have it so . 
I do not need to tell how well he was served at supper but when the meal was finished , they felt no further hesitation in speaking of various matters . 
First , the host began to ask him who he was , and from what land , but he did not inquire about his name . 
The knight promptly answered him I am from the kingdom of Logres , and have never been in this land before . 
And when the gentleman heard that , he was greatly amazed , as were his wife and children too , and each one of them was sore distressed . 
Where do you come from , then ? he asked . 
Sire , we belong in your country . 
Many men from your country are held in servitude in this land . 
Cursed be the custom , together with those who keep it up ! No stranger comes here who is not compelled to stay here in the land where he is detained . 
For whoever wishes may come in , but once in , he has to stay . 
About your own fate , you may be at rest , you will doubtless never escape from here . 
He replies Indeed , I shall do so , if possible . 
To this the gentleman replies How ? Do you think you can escape ? Yes , indeed , if it be God's will and I shall do all within my power . 
So he said to him Sire , do not conceal from me your business , if I promise to give you the best advice I know . 
I too shall profit by any success you may attain . 
Reveal to me the truth about your errand , that it may be to your advantage as well as mine . 
I am persuaded that you have come in search of the Queen into this land and among these heathen people , who are worse than the Saracens . 
And the knight replies For no other purpose have I come . 
I know not where my lady is confined , but I am striving hard to rescue her , and am in dire need of advice . 
Give me any counsel you can . 
And he says Sire , you have undertaken a very grievous task . 
The road you are travelling will lead you straight to the sword bridge . 
If you would heed my counsel , you would proceed to the sword bridge by a surer way , and I would have you escorted thither . 
To morrow you will reach a place where you will have trouble it is called the stony passage' . 
You will meet with resistance as soon as you arrive . 
You will sustain many a blow of sword and lance , and will have to return full measure before you succeed in passing through . 
Then one of the lads jumps up , and says I too will go . 
And the father gladly gives them both consent . 
Now the knight will not have to go alone , and he expresses his gratitude , being much pleased with the company . 
Then the conversation ceases , and they take the knight to bed , where he was glad to fall asleep . 
As soon as daylight was visible he got up , and those who were to accompany him got up too . 
The two knights donned their armour and took their leave , while the young fellow started on ahead . 
Together they pursued their way until they came at the hour of prime to the stony passage . 
In the middle of it they found a wooden tower , where there was always a man on guard . 
One of them remarks to the other No one has ever seen so good a knight , nor has he any equal . 
Then they go on together until about three o'clock , when they come upon a man , who asks them who they are . 
And they answer We are knights , busy about our own affairs . 
Then the man says to the knight Sire , I should be glad to offer hospitality to you and your companions here . 
This invitation he delivers to him whom he takes to be the lord and master of the others . 
And I have such business on hand that I shall not stop for the night for some time yet . 
Then the man continues My house is not near here , but is some distance ahead . 
It will be late when you reach there , so you may proceed , assured that you will find a place to lodge just when it suits you . 
In that case , he says , I will go thither . 
Thereupon the man starts ahead as guide , and the knight follows along the path . 
And when they had proceeded some distance , they met a squire who was coming along at a gallop , mounted upon a nag that was as fat and round as an apple . 
And they further say that he will deliver those who are in this country , and will subdue our people . 
The castle was surrounded by a high wall and moat . 
As soon as they had got inside , a gate was lowered upon their heels , so that they could not get out again . 
Then they say Come on , come on ! Let us not stop here ! and they rapidly pursue the man until they reach another gate which was not closed against them . 
But as soon as the man had passed through , a portcullis dropped behind him . 
Then the others were much dismayed to see themselves shut in , and they think they must be bewitched . 
This lady was a fairy , who had given it to him , and who had cared for him in his infancy . 
And he had great confidence that , wherever he might be , she would aid and succour him . 
But after appealing to her and gazing upon the ring , he realises that there is no enchantment here , but that they are actually shut in and confined . 
Then they come to the barred door of a low and narrow postern gate . 
Drawing their swords , they all strike it with such violence that they cut the bar . 
I do not know where they are placed , but I will go and find out , if you wish it so . 
I wish you would do so , he replies , go quickly , and do not fail to come back again at once . 
He goes and returns at once , saying It has turned out well for us , for I have plainly seen that these are our troops on this side of the field . 
Then the lad dismounts , and taking the dead knight's horse and arms , he arms himself with skill and cleverness . 
Then he followed his brother and lord into the fight . 
The latter demeaned himself bravely in the melee for some time , breaking , splitting , and crushing shields , helmets and hauberks . 
No wood or steel protected the man whom he struck he either wounded him or knocked him lifeless from the horse . 
Unassisted , he did so well that he discomfited all whom he met , while his companions did their part as well . 
The people of Logres , not knowing him , are amazed at what they see , and ask the vavasor's sons about the stranger knight . 
He has done much , and will do yet more . 
Every one is overjoyed at hearing this welcome news . 
The news travelled fast , and was noised about , until it was known by all . 
And if it had not been so near evening , all would have gone away defeated but night came on so dark that they had to separate . 
Thus each one addresses him to his face , and in the desire to capture him , each one drags him from the rest , until they almost come to blows . 
Then he tells them that they are very foolish and silly to struggle so . 
Cease this wrangling among yourselves , for it does no good to me or you . 
Instead of quarrelling among ourselves , we ought rather to lend one another aid . 
You ought to be concerned to further my affairs , and instead you are seeking to turn me aside . 
Accompanied by them alone , he resumed his journey . 
That day they rode from morn till evening without encountering any adventure . 
When they had dismounted , the lady had the horses taken by members of her well ordered household . 
She calls her sons and daughters who come at once the youths were courteous , handsome , and well behaved , and the daughters were fair . 
She bids the lads remove the saddles and curry the horses well no one refused to do this , but each carried out her instructions willingly . 
When she ordered the knights to be disarmed , her daughters step forward to perform this service . 
They remove their armour , and hand them three short mantles to put on . 
Then at once they take them into the house which was very handsome . 
The master was not at home , being out in the woods with two of his sons . 
But he presently returned , and his household , which was well ordered , ran to meet him outside the door . 
Quickly they untie and unpack the game he brings , and tell him the news Sire , sire , you do not know that you have three knights for guests . 
God be praised for that , he says . 
Then the knight and his two sons extend a glad welcome to their guests . 
The rest of the household were not backward , for even the least among them prepared to perform his special task . 
When all had washed , they take their seats . 
Nothing that was done there seemed to be any trouble or burdensome . 
But at the first course there came a surprise in the form of a knight outside the door . 
As he sat on his charger , all armed from head to feet , he looked prouder than a bull , and a bull is a yew proud beast . 
One leg was fixed in the stirrup , but the other he had thrown over the mane of his horse's neck , to give himself a careless and jaunty air . 
All his pains will come to naught , and his expedition is in vain . 
Then he , who felt no fear at all , thus replies with confidence I am he who intends to cross the bridge . 
Ah , God , of what was he accused ? Why was he carried in a cart ? For what sin , or for what crime ? He will always suffer the reproach . 
If all good knights could be compared , and if the truth were to be known , you could find none so handsome or so expert . 
Thus they expressed their sentiments . 
Then he began his speech of impudence Listen , thou knight , who art bound for the sword bridge ! If thou wishest , thou shalt cross the water very easily and comfortably . 
I will quickly have thee ferried over in a skiff . 
And he replies that he is not seeking trouble , and that he will never risk his head in such an adventure for any consideration . 
Then , to beguile him . 
the other says If I could refuse , I would very gladly excuse myself but in truth I would rather fight than be compelled to do what is wrong . 
This order they promptly execute some devote themselves to arming him , while others go to fetch his horse . 
Outside the gate , where the battle was to be fought , there was a stretch of level ground well adapted for the encounter . 
With their swords they then hew away at their shields , helmets , and hauberks . 
The wood is cut and the steel gives way , so that they wound each other in several places . 
They pay each other such angry blows that it seems as if they had made a bargain . 
The swords often descend upon the horses' croups , where they drink and feast upon their blood their riders strike them upon the flanks until at last they kill them both . 
The Knight of the Cart blames and reproaches himself for faintheartedness when he sees his host watching him and notices all the others looking on . 
His heart is stirred with anger , for it seems to him that he ought long since to have beaten his adversary . 
His wounds and distress are so great that he has to cry for mercy . 
I never wished for anything so much as I now wish for mercy . 
Then he says to him Thou must mount , then , upon a cart . 
Nothing thou couldst say would have any influence with me , unless thou mountest the cart , to atone for the vile reproaches thou didst address to me with thy silly mouth . 
And the knight thus answers him May it never please God that I mount a cart ! No ? he asks then you shall die . 
Sire , you can easily put me to death but I beg and beseech you for God's sake to show me mercy and not compel me to mount a cart . 
I will agree to anything , however grievous , excepting that . 
I would rather die a hundred times than undergo such a disgrace . 
In your goodness and mercy you can tell me nothing so distasteful that I will not do it . 
While he is thus beseeching him , behold across the field a maiden riding on a tawny mule , her head uncovered and her dress disarranged . 
In her hand she held a whip with which she belaboured the mule and in truth no horse could have galloped so fast as was the pace of the mule . 
And he replies Tell me what it is you wish and if I have it , you shall have it at once , provided it be not something extravagant . 
Then she says It is the head of the knight whom thou hast just defeated in truth , thou hast never dealt with such a wicked and faithless man . 
Thou wilt be committing no sin or wrong , but rather doing a deed of charity , for he is the basest creature that ever was or ever shall be . 
He wishes to respect the wishes of both her and him . 
Generosity and pity each command him to do their will for he was both generous and tender hearted . 
But if she carries off the head , then will pity be defeated and put to death whereas , if she does not carry off the head , generosity will be discomfited . 
Thus , pity and generosity hold him so confined and so distressed that he is tormented and spurred on by each of them in turn . 
The damsel asks him to give her the head , and on the other hand the knight makes his request , appealing to his pity and kindness . 
Since this is his custom , he will not refuse his mercy to him who now begs and sues for it . 
And shall she have the head she covets ? Yes , if it be possible . 
But , if I conquer thee again , know that thou shalt surely die . 
And he replies I desire nothing better than that , and ask for no further favour . 
And I will give thee this advantage , he adds I will fight thee as I stand , without changing my present position . 
Then the other knight makes ready , and they begin the fight again eagerly . 
But this time the knight triumphed more quickly than he had done at first . 
And the damsel at once cries out Do not spare him , knight , for anything he may say to thee . 
Surely he would not have spared thee , had he once defeated thee . 
If thou heedest what he says , be sure that he will again beguile thee . 
For another day may well come when , if he can , he will beguile thee again with his words . 
He , thinking his end is near , cries aloud to him for mercy but his cry is of no avail , nor anything that he can say . 
The other drags him by the helmet , tearing all the fastening , and he strikes from his head the ventail and the gleaming coif . 
Ah , he says , thou wouldst do wrong to heed my enemy and kill me thus . 
While she , intent upon his death , admonishes him to cut off his head , and not to believe a word he says . 
He strikes the head flies across the sward and the body fails . 
Then the damsel is pleased and satisfied . 
I had only one grief in life , and that was that this man was still alive . 
I have a reward laid up for thee which thou shalt receive at the proper time . 
I promise thee that thou shalt have a worthy reward for the service thou hast rendered me . 
Now I will go away , with the prayer that God may guard thee from harm . 
Then the damsel leaves him , as each commends the other to God . 
Then they wash their hands again and take their places at the meal , which they eat with better cheer than is their wont . 
And he makes answer May God hear your desire . 
Sire , be not concerned over your horse which is dead . 
We have good strong horses here . 
I want you to take anything of ours which you need , and you shall choose the best of our horses in place of yours . 
And he replies I willingly accept . 
Thereupon , they have the beds prepared and retire for the night . 
The next morning they rise early , and dress , after which they prepare to start . 
Upon leaving , they fail in no act of courtesy , but take leave of the lady , her lord , and all the rest . 
When each was seated on his horse , they all asked for leave to depart from their host who had served them so honourably . 
Then they ride along the road until the day draws to a close , and late in the afternoon they reach the sword bridge . 
And the bridge , which spans it , is different from any other bridge for there never was such a one as this . 
If any one asks of me the truth , there never was such a bad bridge , nor one whose flooring was so bad . 
The bridge across the cold stream consisted of a polished , gleaming sword but the sword was stout and stiff , and was as long as two lances . 
At each end there was a tree trunk in which the sword was firmly fixed . 
No one need fear to fall because of its breaking or bending , for its excellence was such that it could support a great weight . 
This bridge is badly made and built , and the construction of it is bad . 
If you do not change your mind in time , it will be too late to repent . 
You must consider which of several alternatives you will choose . 
If you do not take care , they will certainly devour you . 
Your body will soon be torn and rent apart , for they will show you no mercy . 
So take pity on us now , and stay here in our company ! It would be wrong for you to expose yourself intentionally to such mortal peril . 
And he , laughing , replies to them Gentlemen , receive my thanks and gratitude for the concern you feel for me it comes from your love and kind hearts . 
I know full well that you would not like to see any mishap come to me but I have faith and confidence in God , that He will protect me to the end . 
I fear the bridge and stream no more than I fear this dry land so I intend to prepare and make the dangerous attempt to cross . 
I would rather die than turn back now . 
The others have nothing more to say but each weeps with pity and heaves a sigh . 
Meanwhile he prepares , as best he may , to cross the stream , and he does a very marvellous thing in removing the armour from his feet and hands . 
He will be in a sorry state when he reaches the other side . 
In accordance with this determination , he passes over with great pain and agony , being wounded in the hands , knees , and feet . 
But even this suffering is sweet to him for Love , who conducts and leads him on , assuages and relieves the pain . 
Creeping on his hands , feet , and knees , he proceeds until he reaches the other side . 
When those who had remained behind upon the bank saw that he had safely crossed , their joy was natural but they do not know of his injuries . 
He , however , considers himself fortunate not to have suffered anything worse . 
The blood from his wounds drips on his shirt on all sides . 
Then he sees before him a tower , which was so strong that never had he seen such a strong one before indeed , it could not have been a better tower . 
From their point of vantage they had seen the knight cross the bridge with trouble and pain . 
If he were not base and disloyal , there could no better knight be found but he had a heart of wood , without gentleness and pity . 
What enraged his son and roused his ire , made the king happy and glad . 
The king knew of a truth that he who had crossed the bridge was much better than any one else . 
For prowess cannot accomplish so much as wickedness and sloth can do it is true beyond a doubt that it is possible to do more evil than good . 
I could say more on these two heads , if it did not cause me to delay . 
Tell me now if thou art not well disposed toward him who has performed such a marvellous feat . 
Make peace and be reconciled with him , and deliver the Queen into his hands . 
Thou shalt gain no glory in battle with him , but rather mayst thou incur great loss . 
Show thyself to be courteous and sensible , and send the Queen to meet him before he sees thee . 
Show him honour in this land of thine , and before he asks it , present to him what he has come to seek . 
Thou knowest well enough that he has come for the Queen Guinevere . 
Do not act so that people will take thee to be obstinate , foolish , or proud . 
If this man has entered thy land alone , thou shouldst bear him company , for one gentleman ought not to avoid another , but rather attract him and honour him with courtesy . 
One receives honour by himself showing it be sure that the honour will be thine , if thou doest honour and service to him who is plainly the best knight in the world . 
Then again the king says to him Son , thou wouldst act very courteously to renounce this pretension . 
I advise thee and beg thee to keep the peace . 
Thou knowest well that the honour will belong to the knight , if he wins the Queen from thee in battle . 
He would doubtless rather win her in battle than as a gift , for it will thus enhance his fame . 
It is my opinion that he is seeking her , not to receive her peaceably , but because he wishes to win her by force of arms . 
So it would be wise on thy part to deprive him of the satisfaction of fighting thee . 
I am sorry to see thee so foolish but if thou dost not heed my advice , evil will come of it , and the ensuing misfortune will be worse for thee . 
For the knight need fear no hostility from any one here save thee . 
On behalf of myself and all my men , I will grant him a truce and security . 
He shall be securely guarded and well defended against all men here excepting thee . 
I wish him clearly to understand that , if he can maintain himself against thee , he need have no fear of any one else . 
I have listened to you in silence long enough , says Meleagant , and you may say what you please . 
But little do I care for all you say . 
I am not a hermit , nor so compassionate and charitable , and I have no desire to be so honourable as to give him what I most love . 
His task will not be performed so quickly or so lightly rather will it turn out otherwise than as you and he expect . 
You and I need not quarrel because you aid him against me . 
Be as compassionate as you please , but let me be cruel . 
What ? Wilt thou not change thy mind ? No , he says . 
Then I will say nothing more . 
I will leave thee alone to do thy best and will go now to speak with the knight . 
I wish to offer and present to him my aid and counsel in all respects for I am altogether on his side . 
Then the king goes down and orders them to bring his horse . 
They did not stop their ride downhill until they came to the bridge , where they see him stanching his wounds and wiping the blood from them . 
The king expects to keep him as his guest for a long time while his wounds are healing but he might as well expect to drain the sea . 
The king sees that he is exerting himself , and quickly runs to greet him with the words Sire , I am greatly amazed that you have fallen upon us in this land . 
And know that I admire you greatly for having executed what no one before ever dared to conceive . 
You will find me very kindly disposed , and loyal and courteous toward you . 
I am the king of this land , and offer you freely all my counsel and service and I think I know pretty well what you have come here to seek . 
You come , I am sure , to seek the Queen . 
Sire , he replies , your surmise is correct no other cause brings me here . 
Friend , you must suffer hardship to obtain her , he replies and you are sorely wounded , as I see by the wounds and the flowing blood . 
and something still better , if it can be found , for I am very solicitous about your comfort and your recovery . 
But I am well disposed toward you , and will gladly give you , so help me God , all of which you stand in need . 
Despite the feelings of any one , I will protect you against all men . 
You will have no cause to fear any one excepting him who brought the Queen here . 
No man ever menaced another as I have menaced him , and I came near driving him from my land , in my displeasure because he will not surrender her to you . 
To be sure , he is my son but feel no concern , for unless he defeats you in battle , he can never do you the slightest harm against my will . 
Sire , he says , I thank you . 
But I am losing time here which I do not wish to waste . 
I have no cause to complain , and have no wound which is paining me . 
Take me where I can find him for with such arms as I have , I am ready to divert myself by giving and receiving blows . 
However , in deference to you , I will consent to wait until to morrow but despite what any one may say , longer I will not wait . 
If he had taken my advice , he would not have rashly undertaken , either this month or the next , the battle which he so greatly desires . 
He would gladly have entered the battle at once , though his hands and feet are not sound , but cut and wounded . 
Meleagant answers his father thus You are foolish to be concerned . 
By the faith I owe St . 
Peter , I will not take your advice in this matter . 
I should deserve to be drawn apart with horses , if I heeded your advice . 
I see plainly , says the king , that thou art intent upon thy mad enterprise , and thou shalt have thy fill of it . 
Since such is thy pleasure , to morrow thou shalt try thy strength with the knight . 
May no greater hardship ever visit me than that ! Meleagant replies I would much rather it were to day than to morrow . 
There was in the world no more trusty man , and he was more skilled in the cure of wounds than all the doctors of Montpeilier . 
That night he treated the knight as best he could , in accordance with the king's command . 
When morning came , there was such a press before the castle that there was not room to move one's foot . 
And the king , rising early in his distress about the battle , goes directly to his son , who had already laced upon his head the helmet which was of Poitiers make . 
No delay or peace is possible , for though the king did his best , his efforts are of no effect . 
In the middle of the castle square , where all the people are assembled , the battle will be fought in compliance with the king's wish and command . 
The king sends at once for the stranger knight , and he is conducted to the grounds which were filled with people from the kingdom of Logres . 
For just as people are accustomed to go to church to hear the organ on the annual feast days of Pentecost or Christmas , so they had all assembled now . 
Very early , before prime had yet been sounded , both of the knights fully armed were led to the place , mounted upon two horses equally protected . 
Meleagant was very graceful , alert , and shapely the hauberk with its fine meshes , the helmet , and the shield hanging from his neck all these became him well . 
however , favoured the other knight , even those who wished him ill , and they say that Meleagant is worth nothing compared with him . 
Then he says to them Hold in your horses until I reach the top of the tower . 
It will be only a slight favour , if you will wait so long for me . 
Then in sorrowful mood he leaves them and goes directly to the place where he knew he would find the Queen . 
He placed her at one window , and took his place at another window on her right . 
Those who were prisoners were praying for their lord , for to God and to him they entrusted their succour and deliverance . 
Repeatedly they trim the helmets and shining hauberks so fiercely that after the sword the blood spurts out . 
They furnished an excellent battle , indeed , as they stunned and wounded each other with their heavy , wicked blows . 
Many fierce , hard , long bouts they sustained with equal honour , so that the onlookers could discern no advantage on either side . 
But it was inevitable that he who had crossed the bridge should be much weakened by his wounded hands . 
And if she had known his name , she would gladly have called to him to look about him . 
God , how happy and glad at heart I am ! the damsel says . 
From the moment he caught sight of her , he did not turn or take his eyes and face from her , defending himself with backhand blows . 
But now we see thee so distressed that thou dealest back hand blows and fightest thy adversary , behind thy back . 
Turn , so as to be on the other side , and so that thou canst face toward this tower , for it will help thee to keep it in view . 
Thereupon he leaps backward and so manoeuvres as to force Meleagant into a position between him and the tower . 
Meleagant makes every effort to regain his former position . 
Lancelot's strength and courage grow , partly because he has love's aid , and partly because he never hated any one so much as him with whom he is engaged . 
He is glad to get away from him , and he winces and sidesteps , fearing his blows and avoiding them . 
And Lancelot does not idly threaten him , but drives him rapidly toward the tower where the Queen was stationed on the watch . 
There upon the tower he did her the homage of his blows until he came so close that , if he advanced another step , he would lose sight of her . 
And this same flame so stirred him against Meleagant that he was enabled to lead and drive him wherever he pleased . 
In spite of himself he drives him on like a blind man or a man with a wooden leg . 
So he began to say to her Lady , since I have had you in my power , I have loved you and faithfully served and honoured you . 
I never consciously left anything undone in which I saw your honour involved now repay me for what I have done . 
For I am about to ask you a favour which you should not grant unless you do so willingly . 
If you will , you can thus repay me for what I have done for you . 
These words were not spoken privately , but Lancelot and Meleagrant heard what was said . 
The man who is a perfect lover is always obedient and quickly and gladly does his mistress' pleasure . 
if that were possible for any man to do . 
He does not touch him or raise his hand . 
But Meleagant , beside himself with rage and shame when he hears that it has been necessary to intercede in his behalf , strikes him with all the strength he can muster . 
Then Meleagant , choking with shame , says to the king I think you must be blind ! I do not believe you see a thing . 
Any one must indeed be blind to think I am not better than he . 
Seek some one to believe thy words ! the king replies , for all the people know whether thou speakest the truth or a lie . 
All of us know full well the truth . 
Then the king bids his barons lead his son away , which they do at once in execution of his command they led away Meleagant . 
But it was not necessary to use force to induce Lancelot to withdraw , for Meleagant might have harmed him grievously , before he would have sought to defend himself . 
Then the king says to his son So help me God , now thou must make peace and surrender the Queen . 
Thou must cease this quarrel once for all and withdraw thy claim . 
That is great nonsense you have uttered ! I hear you speak foolishly . 
He kill me ! Rather would I soon defeat and kill him , if you would leave us alone and let us fight . 
Then the king says So help me God , all that thou sayest is of no avail . 
Why is that ? he asks . 
Because I will not consent . 
I will not so trust in thy folly and pride as to allow thee to be killed . 
A man is a fool to court death , as thou dost in thy ignorance . 
I know well that thou hatest me because I wish to save thy life . 
God will not let me see and witness thy death , if I can help it , for it would cause me too much grief . 
He talks to him and reproves him until finally peace and good will are restored . 
When the Queen and Lancelot had both agreed to this , the arrangement was concluded , and they both retired and removed their arms . 
Now the custom in the country was that when one issued forth , all the others might do so too . 
All called down blessings upon Lancelot and you may know that he must have felt great joy , as in truth he did . 
There was a great crowd present at this glad scene , as each one strives and presses forward to touch him if possible . 
Any one who succeeded in touching him was more delighted than he could tell . 
The king turns away from the list , taking with him Lancelot , who begs him to take him to the Queen . 
I shall not fail to do so , the king replies for it seems to me the proper thing to do . 
And if you like , I will show you Kay the seneschal . 
At this Lancelot is so glad that he almost falls at his feet . 
Then the king took him at once into the hall , where the Queen had come to wait for him . 
When the Queen saw the king holding Lancelot by the hand , she rose before the king , but she looked displeased with clouded brow , and she spoke not a word . 
Lady , here is Lancelot come to see you , says the king you ought to be pleased and satisfied . 
I , sire ? He cannot please me . 
I care nothing about seeing him . 
Sire , truly he has made poor use of his time . 
I shall never deny that I feel no gratitude toward him . 
Now Lancelot is dumbfounded but he replies very humbly like a polished lover Lady , certainly I am grieved at this , but I dare not ask your reason . 
The Queen listened as Lancelot voiced his disappointment , but in order to grieve and confound him , she would not answer a single word , but returned to her room . 
And Lancelot followed her with his eyes and heart until she reached the door but she was not long in sight , for the room was close by . 
If she is ever accustomed to speak with you , she ought not to be niggardly now or avoid conversation with you , after what you have done for her . 
Now tell me , if you know , why and for what misdeed she has shown you such a countenance . 
Sire , I did not notice that just now but she will not look at me or hear my words , and that distresses and grieves me much . 
Surely , says the king , she is in the wrong , for you have risked your life for her . 
Come away now , fair sweet friend , and we shall go to speak with the seneschal . 
I shall be glad to do so , he replies . 
Then they both go to the seneschal . 
Then the king left them together in the room , and went out alone . 
And Lancelot inquires of the seneschal if he has been badly off . 
Yes , he answers , and I still am so . 
I was never more wretched than I am now . 
But I am very sure that the king was ignorant of this he would not tolerate such base and murderous tricks . 
Up to the present time the king in his mercy has shown her all the marks of consideration which she herself proposed . 
She alone had the disposition of her affairs . 
And the king esteemed her all the more for the loyalty she showed . 
Then , leaving the room , he appeared before the king and asked for leave to proceed in that direction . 
And the king willingly grants him leave to go . 
Then those whom Lancelot had set free and delivered from prison ask him what they are to do . 
And he replies All those who desire may come with me , and those who wish to stay with the Queen may do so there is no reason why they should accompany me . 
Then all those , who so desire , accompany him , more glad and joyous than is their wont . 
With the Queen remain her damsels who are light of heart , and many knights and ladies too . 
But there is not one of those who stay behind , who would not have preferred to return to his own country to staying there . 
But on my lord Gawain's account , whose arrival is expected , the Queen keeps them , saying that she will never stir until she has news of him . 
Wherever the people of the land gather together , they ask each other about the truth of this report , and never talk of anything else . 
They are very much enraged that all the dangerous passes have been overcome , and that any one may come and go as he pleases . 
All of his own men were without their arms , and therefore they were at a disadvantage when they saw the natives of the country coming under arms . 
It was not strange that they seized Lancelot , who was without his arms . 
They lead him back prisoner , his feet lashed together beneath his horse . 
Then his own men say Gentlemen , this is an evil deed for the king has given us his safe conduct , and we are under his protection . 
But the others reply We do not know how that may be but as we have taken you , you must return with us to court . 
The rumour , which swiftly flies and runs , reaches the king , that his men have seized Lancelot and put him to death . 
The news of this spread until it reached the Queen , who was sitting at meat . 
Then grieving she rises from the table , and makes her lament , but so that no one hears or notices her . 
She is so distressed at the thought of her cruelty , that her beauty is seriously impaired . 
Her cruelty and meanness affected her and marred her beauty more than all the vigils and fastings with which she afflicted herself . 
I intended it as a jest , but he did not take it so , and has not pardoned me . 
I am sure it was no one but me who gave him his death blow . 
These two strokes have killed him , I am sure no other bandits have caused his death . 
God ! can I ever make amends for this murder and this crime ? No , indeed sooner will the rivers and the sea dry up . 
If he is dead , I am very wicked not to destroy myself . 
It is wrong for a woman to wish to die rather than to suffer for her lover's sake . 
It is certainly sweet for me to mourn him long . 
I would rather be beaten alive than die and be at rest . 
For two days the Queen thus mourned for him without eating or drinking , until they thought she too would die . 
There are plenty of people ready to carry bad news rather than good . 
The news reaches Lancelot that his lady and sweetheart is dead . 
You need have no doubt of the grief he felt every one may feel sure that he was afflicted and overcome with grief . 
Indeed , if you would know the truth , he was so downcast that he held his life in slight esteem . 
He wished to kill himself at once , but first he uttered a brief lament . 
This is a terrible mortal grief . 
I am willing that it should be so , and if God will , I shall die of it . 
Then can I not die some other way , without God's consent ? Yes , if he will let me tie this noose around my neck . 
I think I can compel death , even against her will , to take my life . 
Then he let himself slide to earth , intending his horse to drag him until he was lifeless , for he disdains to live another hour . 
At once they caught him in their arms and , on raising him , they found the noose which he had put around his neck and with which he sought to kill himself . 
They quickly cut the noose but the noose had so hurt his throat that for some time he could not speak the veins of his neck and throat are almost broken . 
If thou didst spare me , it must be attributed to thy wickedness . 
Each one torments me mortally and it serves me right , so help me God , that in spite of myself I should still live on . 
And if I had known what it was before her soul went to God , I should have made her such rich amends as would have pleased her and gained her mercy . 
God ! what could my crime have been ? I think she must have known that I mounted upon the cart . 
I do not know what other cause she can have to blame me . 
This has been my undoing . 
Rather , everything that one can do for his lady love is to be regarded as a token of his love and courtesy . 
Yet , I did not do it for my lady love' . 
I know not by what name to call her , whether lady love' , or not . 
I do not dare to call her by this name . 
She ought to ascribe this to love and this is a certain proof that love thus tries his devotees and thus learns who is really his . 
But this service did not please my lady , as I discovered by her countenance . 
In truth , such is the custom of those who know so little of love , that even honour they wash in shame . 
But whoever dips honour into shame , does not wash it , but rather sullies it . 
But they , who maltreat him so , are quite ignorant of love and he , who fears not his commands , boasts himself very superior to him . 
For unquestionably he fares well who obeys the commands of love , and whatever he does is pardonable , but he is the coward who does not dare . 
Thus Lancelot makes his lament , and his men stand grieving by his side , keeping hold of him and guarding him . 
Then the news comes that the Queen is not dead . 
He did a very courteous thing in going at once to appraise the Queen . 
All my joy would be cut off , if a knight had been killed in my service . 
Then the king leaves her , and the Queen yearns ardently for the arrival of her lover and her joy . 
She has no desire this time to bear him any grudge . 
She is happy at the thought that this is true , but she would not have had it happen so for anything , for her sorrow would have been too great . 
Thereupon Lancelot arrived in haste . 
As soon as the king sees him , he runs to kiss and embrace him . 
He feels as if he ought to fly , borne along by the buoyancy of his joy . 
Then they made answer that they thought he would have it so . 
It is I whom you have insulted in doing your pleasure . 
He has no reason to complain , the king replies you have not shamed him at all , but only me who was protecting him . 
However you look at it , the shame is mine . 
But if you escape me now , you will see no joke in this . 
Then they talked together at length of all that was upon their hearts , and love furnished them with so much to say that topics did not lack . 
I am ready now , lady , to make amends , when you have told me what has been the crime which has caused me such distress . 
Then the Queen replies What ? Did you not hesitate for shame to mount the cart ? You showed you were loath to get in , when you hesitated for two whole steps . 
That is the reason why I would neither address nor look at you . 
Friend , you are quite forgiven , the Queen replies I pardon you willingly . 
You will not be able to get in I shall be inside and you outside to gain entrance will be impossible . 
I shall be able to touch you only with my lips or hand , but , if you please , I will stay there until morning for love of you . 
Our bodies cannot be joined , for close beside me in my room lies Kay the seneschal , who is still suffering from his wounds . 
And the door is not open , but is tightly closed and guarded well . 
When you come , take care to let no spy catch sight of you . 
Lady , says he , if I can help it , no spy shall see me who might think or speak evil of us . 
Then , having agreed upon this plan , they separate very joyfully . 
Lancelot leaves the room in such a happy frame that all his past troubles are forgotten . 
But he was so impatient for the night to come that his restlessness made the day seem longer than a hundred ordinary days or than an entire year . 
If night had only come , he would gladly have gone to the trysting place . 
Dark and sombre night at last won its struggle with the day , and wrapped it up in its covering , and laid it away beneath its cloak . 
When he saw the light of day obscured , he pretended to be tired and worn , and said that , in view of his protracted vigils , he needed rest . 
Soon he softly rose , and was pleased to find that no moon or star was shining , and that in the house there was no candle , lamp , or lantern burning . 
Thus he went out and looked about , but there was no one on the watch for him , for all thought that he would sleep in his bed all night . 
She wore no cloak or coat , but had thrown over her a short cape of scarlet cloth and shrew mouse fur . 
As soon as Lancelot saw the Queen leaning on the window sill behind the great iron bars , he honoured her with a gentle salute . 
She promptly returned his greeting , for he was desirous of her , and she of him . 
Their talk and conversation are not of vulgar , tiresome affairs . 
They draw close to one another , until each holds the other's hand . 
But they are so distressed at not being able to come together more completely , that they curse the iron bars . 
Then Lancelot asserts that , with the Queen's consent , he will come inside to be with her , and that the bars cannot keep him out . 
Lady , says he , have no fear of that . 
It would take more than these bars to keep me out . 
Nothing but your command could thwart my power to come to you . 
If you will but grant me your permission , the way will open before me . 
But if it is not your pleasure , then the way is so obstructed that I could not possibly pass through . 
Certainly , she says , I consent . 
So it is best for me to withdraw , for no good could come of it , if he should see me standing here . 
Go then , lady , he replies but have no fear that I shall make any noise . 
I think I can draw out the bars so softly and with so little effort that no one shall be aroused . 
Then the Queen retires , and he prepares to loosen the window . 
Seizing the bars , he pulls and wrenches them until he makes them bend and drags them from their places . 
Though the window is not low , Lancelot gets through it quickly and easily . 
It is love that prompts her to treat him so and if she feels great love for him , he feels a hundred thousand times as much for her . 
For there is no love at all in other hearts compared with what there is in his in his heart love was so completely embodied that it was niggardly toward all other hearts . 
Now Lancelot possesses all he wants , when the Queen voluntarily seeks his company and love , and when he holds her in his arms , and she holds him in hers . 
Their sport is so agreeable and sweet , as they kiss and fondle each other , that in truth such a marvellous joy comes over them as was never heard or known . 
But their joy will not be revealed by me , for in a story , it has no place . 
Yet , the most choice and delightful satisfaction was precisely that of which our story must not speak . 
That night Lancelot's joy and pleasure were very great . 
But , to his sorrow , day comes when he must leave his mistress' side . 
It cost him such pain to leave her that he suffered a real martyr's agony . 
But enough of his body stays behind to spot and stain the sheets with the blood which has fallen from his fingers . 
Full of sighs and tears , Lancelot leaves in great distress . 
He grieves that no time is fixed for another meeting , but it cannot be . 
Regretfully he leaves by the window through which he had entered so happily . 
Therefore he was not at all worried , for he would rather have had both arms dragged from his body than not enter through the window . 
But he would have been very angry and distressed , if he had thus injured and wounded himself under any other circumstances . 
Now Meleagant , as soon as he was dressed and ready , went to the room where the Queen lay . 
Then he said Lady , now I have found the evidence that I desired . 
It is very true that any man is a fool to try to confine a woman he wastes his efforts and his pains . 
He who tries to keep her under guard loses her sooner than the man who takes no thought of her . 
What is that ? she asks . 
Since I must speak , I find blood on your sheets , which proves the fact . 
I know it and can prove it , because I find on both your sheets and his the blood which issued from his wounds the evidence is very strong . 
In saying so , she thinks she tells the truth . 
By my head , says Meleagant , there is nothing in what you say . 
Swearing is of no avail , for you are taken in your guilt , and the truth will soon be proved . 
Then he said to the guards who were present Gentlemen , do not move , and see to it that the sheets are not taken from the bed until I return . 
I wish the king to do me justice , as soon as he has seen the truth . 
Then he searched until he found him , and failing at his feet , he said Sire , come to see what you have failed to guard . 
Come to see the Queen , and you shall see the certain marvels which I have already seen and tested . 
But , before you go , I beg you not to fail to be just and upright toward me . 
You know well to what danger I have exposed myself for the Queen yet , you are no friend of mine and keep her from me under guard . 
This morning I went to see her in her bed , and I remarked that Kay lies with her every night . 
Sire , for God's sake , be not angry , if I am disgruntled and if I complain . 
For it is very humiliating for me to be hated and despised by one with whom Kay is allowed to lie . 
Silence ! says the king I don't believe it . 
Then come , my lord , and see the sheets and the state in which Kay has left them . 
Since you will not believe my words , and since you think I am lying , I will show you the sheets and the quilt covered with blood from Kay's wounds . 
Come now , says the king , I wish to see for myself , and my eyes will judge of the truth . 
Then the king goes directly to the room , where the Queen got up at his approach . 
Then she replies So help me God , never even in a dream was uttered such a monstrous lie . 
Surely , Kay is not the man to make an insulting proposal to me , and I have never desired and shall never desire to do such a thing myself . 
It devolves upon you to see that justice is done , and this justice I now request and claim . 
Kay has betrayed King Arthur , his lord , who had such confidence in him that he entrusted to him what he loved most in the world . 
Let me answer , sire , says Kay , and I shall exonerate myself . 
That is why your son suspects me , but surely he has no right to do so . 
And Meleagant answers him So help me God , the devils and demons have betrayed you . 
You grew too heated last night and , as a result of your exertions , your wounds have doubtless bled afresh . 
There is no use in your denying it we can see it , and it is perfectly evident . 
It is right that he should atone for his crime , who is so plainly taken in his guilt . 
Never did a knight with so fair a name commit such iniquities as this , and yours is the shame for it . 
Sire , sire , says Kay to the king , I will defend the Queen and myself against the accusation of your son . 
He harasses and distresses me , though he has no ground to treat me so . 
You cannot fight , the king replies , you are too ill . 
But the Queen , having secretly sent word to Lancelot , tells the king that she will present a knight who will defend the seneschal , if Meleagant dares to urge this charge . 
Then Meleagant said at once There is no knight without exception , even were he a giant , whom I will not fight until one of us is defeated . 
Then Lancelot came in , and with him such a rout of knights that the whole hall was filled with them . 
In the presence of all who hear his words he says I have lied , if you do not make him take it back . 
Lancelot says You need never use arguments with me . 
I am ready to employ my strength in his behalf , and to defend him against this charge . 
Then Meleagant jumped up and said So help me God , I am pleased and well satisfied with that no one need think that I object . 
And Lancelot said My lord king , I am well acquainted with suits and laws , with trials and verdicts in a question of veracity an oath should be taken before the fight . 
Meleagant at once replies I agree to take an oath so let the relics be brought at once , for I know well that I am right . 
And Lancelot answers him So help me God , no one who ever knew Kay the seneschal would doubt his word on such a point . 
Then they call for their horses , and ask that their arms be brought . 
This is promptly done , and when the valets had armed them , they were ready for the fight . 
Then the holy relics are brought forth Meleagant steps forward , with Lancelot by his side , and both fall on their knees . 
And I swear that thou liest , says Lancelot , and furthermore I swear that he neither lay with her nor touched her . 
When the oaths had been taken , their horses were brought forward , which were fair and good in every way . 
Each brings the other to earth however , they are not dismayed , but they rise at once and attack each other with their sharp drawn swords . 
The burning sparks fly in the air from their helmets . 
Whatever is your pleasure is agreeable to me , the Queen says honestly I shall not object to anything you do . 
Lancelot plainly heard what reply the Queen made to the king's request , and from that time he ceased to fight and renounced the struggle at once . 
But Meleagant does not wish to stop , and continues to strike and hew at him . 
But the king rushes between them and stops his son , who declares with an oath that he has no desire for peace . 
He wants to fight , and cares not for peace . 
Then the king says to him Be quiet , and take my advice , and be sensible . 
No shame or harm shall come to thee , if thou wilt do what is right and heed my words . 
And Lancelot , who was impatient to go in search of my lord Gawain , requests leave of the king and Queen to depart . 
With their permission he goes away toward the water bridge , and after him there followed a great company of knights . 
But it would have suited him very well , if many of those who went had stayed behind . 
They make long days' journeys until they approach the water bridge , but are still about a league from it . 
Before they came in sight of the bridge , a dwarf came to meet them on a mighty hunter , holding a scourge with which to urge on and incite his steed . 
Lancelot replies in his own behalf , and says I am he whom thou seekest and askest for . 
Ah , says the dwarf , frank knight , leave these people , and trust in me . 
Come along with me alone , for I will take thee to a goodly place . 
Let no one follow thee for anything , but let them wait here for we shall return presently . 
He , suspecting no harm in this , bids all his men stay there , and follows the dwarf who has betrayed him . 
Meanwhile his men who wait for him may continue to expect him long in vain , for they , who have taken and seized him , have no desire to give him up . 
And his men are in such a state of grief at his failure to return that they do not know what steps to take . 
They all say sorrowfully that the dwarf has betrayed them . 
It would be useless to inquire for him with heavy hearts they begin to search , but they know not where to look for him with any hope of finding him . 
Upon this plan they all agree without dissension . 
One moment he rises , and the next he sinks one moment they see him , and the next they lose him from sight . 
They make such efforts that they succeed in raising him with branches , poles and hooks . 
His lance , his shield , and horse were all behind on the other bank . 
Those who have rescued him do not believe he is alive . 
For his body was full of water , and until he got rid of it , they did not hear him speak a word . 
And they replied that she is still with King Bademagu , who serves her well and honourably . 
Has no one come to seek her in this land ? my lord Gawain then inquires of them . 
And they answer him Yes , indeed . 
Who ? Lancelot of the Lake , they say , who crossed the sword bridge , and rescued and delivered her as well as all the rest of us . 
But we have been betrayed by a pot bellied , humpbacked , and crabbed dwarf . 
He has deceived us shamefully in seducing Lancelot from us , and we do not know what he has done with him . 
When was that ? my lord Gawain inquires . 
Sire , near here this very day this trick was played on us , while he was coming with us to meet you . 
To them my lord Gawain replies When we leave this bridge , we shall go to search for Lancelot . 
But if the king can learn where he is , he will certainly make him surrender him they can rely upon this with confidence . 
They all agreed upon this plan , and started at once upon their way until they drew near the court where the Queen and king were . 
They feel they have been discomfited and betrayed , and they make great lament in their misery . 
It is not a gracious message which reports this mourning to the Queen . 
Nevertheless , she deports herself with as good a grace as possible . 
She resolves to endure it , as she must , for the sake of my lord Gawain . 
However , she does not so conceal her grief that it does not somewhat appear . 
She has to show both joy and grief at once her heart is empty for Lancelot , and to my lord Gawain she shows excessive joy . 
Every one who hears of the loss of Lancelot is grief stricken and distracted . 
And the Queen beseeches him insistently to have him searched for , up and down throughout the land , without postponement or delay . 
My lord Gawain and Kay and all the others join in this prayer and request . 
Leave this care to me , and speak no more of it , the king replies , for I have been ready to do so for some time . 
Without need of request or prayer this search shall be made with thoroughness . 
Everyone bows in sign of gratitude , and the king at once sends messengers through his realm , sagacious and prudent men at arms , who inquired for him throughout the land . 
They made inquiry for him everywhere , but gained no certain news of him . 
The valet greeted her as well as the king , who was by her side , and then all the others and Kay and my lord Gawain . 
He held a letter in his hand which he gave to the king , who took it . 
The king had it read in the hearing of all by one who made no mistake in reading it . 
In proof of which , he affixed his signature which they should recognise , as indeed they did . 
At this they were very happy and glad the whole court resounds with their jubilation , and they say they will start next day as soon as it is light . 
So , when the day broke , they make ready and prepare they rise and mount and start . 
With great joy and jubilee the king escorts them for a long distance on their way . 
When he has conducted them to the frontier and has seen them safely across the border , he takes leave of the Queen , and likewise of all the rest . 
And my lord Gawain promises his service to him , as to his lord and friend , and then Kay does likewise , and all the rest . 
Then the king commends them to God as they start upon their way . 
After these three , he bids the rest farewell , and then turns his face toward home . 
The Queen and her company do not tarry a single day until news of them reaches the court . 
But the truth is quite different from what he thinks . 
Do not trouble ever to say this again , for the compliment does not apply to me . 
This honour causes me only shame , for I did not reach the Queen in time my detention made me late . 
But Lancelot reached there in time , and won such honour as was never won by any other knight . 
Is he not ? No , he is not here , or anywhere else in this country . 
Since my lady was taken away , we have had no news of him . 
Then for the first time my lord Gawain realised that the letter had been forged , and that they had been betrayed and deceived by the letter they had been misled . 
Then they all begin to lament , and they come thus weeping to the court , where the King at once asks for information about the affair . 
When he has what he most desires , he cares little for the rest . 
The lady of Noauz was patroness of it , with the lady of Pomelegloi . 
They will have nothing to do with those who fare ill , but they assert that they will accept those who comport themselves well in the tournament . 
And they had the date of the contest proclaimed s long while in advance in all the countries near and far , in order that there might be more participants . 
He promised to do whatever they wished , before he knew what their desire might be . 
Then they told him that they wished him to let the Queen come to be present at their contest . 
And he who was not accustomed to forbid , said he was willing , if she wished ir so . 
In happy mood they go to the Queen and say to her Lady , do not deprive us of the boon which the King has granted us . 
Then she said that she would come , since he was willing that she should . 
Promptly the dames send word throughout the realm that they are going to bring the Queen on the day set for the tournament . 
The news spread far and near , here and there , until it reached the kingdom whence no one used to return but now whoever wished might enter or pass out unopposed . 
Lancelot learned the hour and date of the tournament , and as soon as he heard of it , his eyes were not tearless nor was his heart glad . 
You won't eat or drink anything , and I see that you do not make merry or laugh . 
You can tell me with confidence why you are so sad and troubled . 
I would gladly do it , she replied , if I did not see that my death and destruction would result . 
But I am in such terror of my lord , the despicable Meleagant , that I would not dare to do it , for he would kill my husband at once . 
It is not strange that I am afraid of him , for , as you know , he is very bad . 
Upon my word , said she , I will allow it upon one condition . 
Lady , what condition is that ? Then she replies Sire , upon condition that you wilt swear to return to me , and promise that I shall have your love . 
Lady , I give you all the love I have , and swear to come back . 
However , I do not disdain to take so much of it as I can get . 
I shall be satisfied with what I can have , and will accept your oath that you will be so considerate of me as to return hither a prisoner . 
In accordance with her wish , Lancelot swears by Holy Church that he will return without fail . 
And the lady at once gives him the vermilion arms of her lord , and his horse which was marvellously good and strong and brave . 
He mounts and leaves , armed with handsome , new arms , and proceeds until he comes to Noauz . 
He espoused this side in the tournament , and took his lodging outside the town . 
Never did such a noble man choose such a small and lowly lodging place but he did not wish to lodge where he might be recognised . 
There were many good and excellent knights gathered within the town . 
But there were many more outside , for so many had come on account of the presence of the Queen that the fifth part could not be accommodated inside . 
For every one who would have been there under ordinary circumstances , there were seven who would not have come excepting on the Queen's account . 
The barons were quartered in tents , lodges , and pavilions for five leagues around . 
Moreover , it was wonderful how many gentle ladies and damsels were there . 
Sire , the herald says , I have always held you in high esteem , and so long as I live , I shall never do anything to cause you displeasure . 
At the place where the tournament was to be , there were some large wooden stands for the use of the Queen with her ladies and damsels . 
Such fine stands were never seen before they were so long and well constructed . 
Thither the ladies betook themselves with the Queen , wishing to see who would fare better or worse in the combat . 
Those who are going to take part begin to joust , and they find plenty of their companions who had come with similar intent . 
Still others prepare to perform other feats of chivalry . 
The fields , meadows , and fallow lands are so full of knights that it is impossible to estimate how many of them are there . 
On the Pomelegloi side there was a brave and valorous knight , and his horse was spirited and swifter than a wild stag . 
He was the son of the Irish king , and fought well and handsomely . 
But the unknown knight pleased them all more a hundred times . 
Go down from the stand , and approach yonder knight with the vermilion shield , and tell him privately that I bid him do his worst' . 
She goes quickly , and with intelligence executes the Queen's command . 
When he heard this , he replied Very willingly , like one who is altogether hers . 
Then he rides at another knight as hard as his horse can carry him , and misses his thrust which should have struck him . 
From that time till evening fell he continued to do as badly as possible in accordance with the Queen's desire . 
But the other , who fought with him , did not miss his thrust , but struck him with such violence that he was roughly handled . 
And the very knights who formerly esteemed him now hurled jests and jibes at him . 
He has measured so much that his yardstick is broken , of which thou hast boasted to us so much . 
Many say What is he going to do ? He was so brave just now but now he is so cowardly that there is not a knight whom he dares to face . 
But now he has learned so much of arms that he will never wish to bear them again his whole life long . 
His heart cannot longer endure the thought , for there is nothing more cowardly than his heart . 
And the Queen , as she watches him , is happy and well pleased , for she knows full well , though she does not say it , that this is surely Lancelot . 
Thus all day long till evening he played his coward's part , and late in the afternoon they separated . 
At parting there was a great discussion as to who had done the best . 
The son of the Irish king thinks that without doubt or contradiction he has all the glory and renown . 
But he is grievously mistaken , for there were plenty of others as good as he . 
For he has been driven off by cowardice , with which he is so filled that there is no greater craven in the world than he . 
And he is not wrong , for a coward is a hundred times more at ease than a valorous fighting man . 
Cowardice is easy of entreaty , and that is the reason he has given her the kiss of peace and has taken from her all she has to give . 
Courage never so debased herself as to lodge in his breast or take quarters near him . 
Thus they wrangle all night , vying with each other in slander . 
But often one man maligns another , and yet is much worse himself than the object of his blame and scorn . 
Thus , every one said what he pleased about him . 
And when the next day dawned , all the people prepared and came again to the jousting place . 
Do you see that knight yonder with a golden band across the middle of his red shield ? That is Governauz of Roberdic . 
And he who bears the shield with the pheasants portrayed beak to beak is Coguillanz of Mautirec . 
Thus they talk up in the stand . 
That shield was made at Limoges , whence it was brought by Pilades , who is very ardent and keen to be always in the fight . 
That shield , bridle , and breast strap were made at Toulouse , and were brought here by Kay of Estraus . 
When the Queen sees that he is not there , she feels inclined to send some one to search for him in the crowd until he be found . 
She knows of no one better to send in search of him than she who yesterday performed her errand . 
Do not delay for any cause , and tell him again to do his worst' . 
And when you have given him this message , mark well what reply he makes . 
The damsel makes no delay , for she had carefully noticed the direction he took the night before , knowing well that she would be sent to him again . 
And he makes answer My thanks to her , since such is her will . 
Then the damsel went away , and the valets , sergeants , and squires begin to shout See this marvellous thing ! He of yesterday with the vermilion arms is back again . 
Then she bids the damsel quickly return and tell him that it is her command and prayer that he shall do his best and she says she will go at once without delay . 
She came down from the stand to where her valet with the palfrey was awaiting her . 
The maiden was not slow in bearing back this message , for she thinks it will greatly please and delight the Queen . 
And the damsel came happy in the message she had to bear . 
Indeed , says the Queen , that may well be so . 
Then she returns to the balcony to watch the knights . 
And Lancelot without delay seizes his shield by the leather straps , for he is kindled and consumed by the desire to show his prowess . 
Guiding his horse's head , he lets him run between two lines . 
All those mistaken and deluded men , who have spent a large part of the day and night in heaping him with ridicule , will soon be disconcerted . 
For a long time they have had their sport and joke and fun . 
The son of the King of Ireland held his shield closely gripped by the leather straps , as he spurs fiercely to meet him from the opposite direction . 
Like arrows the knights at once fly out , spurring and pricking from either side , some to relieve this knight , others to add to his distress . 
While some thus try to aid their lords , many a saddle is left empty in the strife and fray . 
To day his prowess shall appear . 
His feats with sword and lance are so well performed that there is none of the onlookers who does not find pleasure in watching him . 
Many even of those who bear arms find pleasure and satisfaction in what he does , for it is great sport to see how he makes horses and knights tumble and fall . 
He encounters hardly a single knight who is able to keep his seat , and he gives the horses he wins to those who want them . 
Then those who had been making game of him said Now we are disgraced and mortified . 
Yet , most of them are so enamoured of him that they say that , unless they marry him , they will not be bestowed upon any man this year . 
One wish is common to them all each wishes to have him as her spouse . 
He did so well that when the time came to leave the list , they admitted freely on both sides that no one had equalled the knight with the vermilion shield . 
All said this , and it was true . 
But he went straight back to the place whence he had come , to keep his oath . 
When the tournament broke up , they all searched and asked for him , but without success , for he fled away , having no desire to be recognised . 
The knights are disappointed and distressed , for they would have rejoiced to have him there . 
But if the knights were grieved to have been deserted thus , still greater was the damsels' grief when they learned the truth , and they asserted by St . 
John that they would not marry at all that year . 
If they can't have him whom they truly love , then all the others may be dismissed . 
Thus the tourney was adjourned without any of them choosing a husband . 
Meanwhile Lancelot without delay repairs to his prison . 
But the seneschal arrived two or three days before Lancelot , and inquired where he was . 
Lady , the seneschal replies , you could truly have done nothing worse than that . 
Doubtless , I shall smart for this , for my lord Meleagant will treat me worse than the beach combers' law would treat me were I a mariner in distress . 
I shall be killed or banished the moment he hears the news , and he will have no pity for me . 
Fair sire , be not now dismayed , the lady said there is no occasion for the fear you feel . 
There is no possibility of his detention , for he swore to me by the saints that he would return as soon as possible . 
He will not break his word , I know , says Meleagant and yet I am very much displeased at what your wife has done . 
Not for any consideration would I have had him present at that tournament . 
Your orders shall be obeyed , says the seneschal . 
Then he goes away and finds Lancelot returned as prisoner in his yard . 
A messenger , sent by the seneschal , runs back at once to Meleagant , appraising him of Lancelot's return . 
When he heard this news , he took masons and carpenters who unwillingly or of their own free will executed his commands . 
He summoned the best artisans in the land , and commanded them to build a tower , and exert themselves to build it well . 
He ordered the stone to be carried thither and the material for the construction of the tower . 
In less than fifty seven days the tower was completely built , high and thick and well founded . 
It was his will that it should be thus sealed up , and that no door or opening should remain , except one small window . 
Here Lancelot was compelled to stay , and they gave him poor and meagre fare through this little window at certain hours , as the disloyal wretch had ordered and commanded them . 
But I see nothing of Lancelot who agreed to be my antagonist . 
Nevertheless , as my duty is , in the hearing of all who are present here , I offer myself to fight this battle . 
And if he is here , let him now step forth and agree to meet me in your court a year from now . 
I know not if any one has told you how this battle was agreed upon . 
But I see knights here who were present at our conference , and who , if they would , could tell you the truth . 
If he should try to deny the truth , I should employ no hireling to take my place , but would prove it to him hand to hand . 
And the King answered her Lady , I understand I know full well that it is he who held my people in distress . 
The Queen says no more , but the King addresses Meleagant Friend , he says , so help me God , we are very sad because we know nothing of Lancelot . 
My lord King , says Meleagant , Lancelot told me that I should surely find him here . 
Ah , says Meleagant , for God's sake , my fair lord King , grant him the boon . 
I join my request to his desire , for I know no knight in all the world with whom I would more gladly try my strength , excepting only Lancelot . 
But bear in mind that , if I do not fight with one of them , I will accept no exchange or substitution for either one . 
And the King says that this is understood , if Lancelot does not return within the time . 
Then Meleagant left the royal court and journeyed until he found his father , King Bademagu . 
In order to appear brave and of consideration in his presence , he began by making a great pretence and by assuming an expression of marvellous cheer . 
it was his birthday , which he celebrated with splendour and generosity , and there were many people of divers sorts gathered with him . 
But it is not fitting that I should explain it here , for I do not wish to confuse or entangle my material , but rather to treat it straight forwardly . 
Then he flattered him with the request that he should not conceal why he has alluded to this , what he wishes , and whence he comes . 
Sire , I know not whether you remember , Meleagant begins , the agreements and stipulations which were recorded when Lancelot and I made peace . 
It was then agreed , I believe , and in the presence of many we were told , that we should present ourselves at the end of a year at Arthur's court . 
I went thither at the appointed time , ready equipped for my business there . 
Any one , who knew it not before , may learn of thy madness from thy own lips . 
A good heart truly humbles itself , but the fool and the boastful never lose their folly . 
Son , to thee I direct my words , for the traits of thy character are so hard and dry , that there is no place for sweetness or friendship . 
Thy heart is altogether pitiless thou art altogether in folly's grasp . 
This accounts for my slight respect for thee , and this is what will cast thee down . 
If thou art brave , there will be plenty of men to say so in time of need . 
A virtuous man need not praise his heart in order to enhance his deed the deed itself will speak in its own praise . 
Thy self praise does not aid thee a whit to increase in any one's esteem indeed , I hold thee in less esteem . 
Son , I chasten thee but to what end ? It is of little use to advise a fool . 
Then Meleagant was sorely enraged and furious . 
What is it , then ? Because I see nothing in thee but folly and wrath . 
I know very well what thy courage is like , and that it will cause thee great trouble yet . 
A curse upon him who supposes that the elegant Lancelot , who is esteemed by all but thee , has ever fled from thee through fear . 
I am sure that he is buried or confined in some prison whose door is barred so tight that he cannot escape without leave . 
I should surely be sorely grieved if he were dead or in distress . 
It would surely be too bad , were a creature so splendidly equipped , so fair , so bold , yet so serene , to perish thus before his time . 
But , may it please God , this is not true . 
It is quite clear to her that he is shut up , since no one knows any news of him or his wanderings . 
But I must say that when she leaves the court , she knows not which way to turn . 
However , she asks no advice in her predicament , but takes the first road she finds , and rides along at random rapidly , unaccompanied by knight or squire . 
In her eagerness she makes haste to attain the object of her search . 
Keenly she presses forward in her quest , but it will not soon terminate . 
One day she was crossing a field in a sad and pensive mood , when she saw a tower in the distance standing by the shore of an arm of the sea . 
Not within a league around about was there any house , cottage , or dwelling place . 
Meleagant had had it built , and had confined Lancelot within . 
But of all this she still was unaware . 
As soon as she espied the tower , she fixed her attention upon it to the exclusion of all else . 
The damsel draws so near to the tower that she can touch it with her hands . 
She walks about , listening attentively , I suppose , if perchance she may hear some welcome sound . 
She looks down and she gazes up , and she sees that the tower is strong and high and thick . 
She is amazed to see no door or window , except one little narrow opening . 
Moreover , there was no ladder or steps about this high , sheer tower . 
For this reason she surmises that it was made so intentionally , and that Lancelot is confined inside . 
But she resolves that before she tastes of food , she will learn whether this is so or not . 
It implores death to come , and complains of misery unbearable . 
Surely you delay too long and are not showing courtesy . 
But why do I thus torment myself ? You do not care for me even enough to take this trouble . 
The rustic is right when he says that it is hard nowadays to find a friend ! It is easy to rest the true friend in time o need . 
Alas ! more than a year has passed since first I was put inside this tower . 
I feel hurt , Gawain , that you have so long deserted me ! But doubtless you know nothing of all this , and I have no ground for blaming you . 
If for no other reason , you would be bound to do this out of love for me , your companion . 
But it is idle to talk about it it cannot be . 
Ah , may the curse and the damnation of God and St . 
Then she called out louder yet , until he in his weakness faintly heard her , and wondered who could be calling him . 
He heard the voice and heard his name pronounced , but he did not know who was calling him he thinks it must be a spirit . 
He looks all about him to see , I suppose , if he could espy any one but there is nothing to be seen but the tower and himself . 
Of course , if this happened in a dream , I should consider it an illusion but I am awake , and therefore I am distressed . 
Then with some trouble he gets up , and with slow and feeble steps he moves toward the little opening . 
Once there , he peers through it , up and down and to either side . 
When he had looked out as best he might , he caught sight of her who had hailed him . 
He did not recognise her by sight . 
But she knew him at once and said Lancelot , I have come from afar in search of you . 
Now , thank God , at last I have found you . 
Because of this boon and this service you did me , I have gone to this trouble . 
As a guerdon I shall deliver you from here . 
Damsel , many thanks to you , the prisoner then replied the service I did you will be well repaid if I am set at liberty . 
You may ask for anything I have , and receive it without delay . 
Friend , have no fear that you will not be released from here . 
You shall be loosed and set free this very day . 
Not for a thousand pounds would I renounce the expectation of seeing you free before the datum of another day . 
Then I shall take you to a pleasant place , where you may rest and take your ease . 
There you shall have everything you desire , whatever it be . 
But first I must see if I can find some tool anywhere hereabouts with which you might enlarge this hole , at least enough to let you pass . 
Then the daughter of Bademagu sought and found a strong , stout , sharp pick , which she handed to him . 
He pounded , and hammered and struck and dug , notwithstanding the pain it caused him , until he could get out comfortably . 
Now he is greatly relieved and glad , you may be sure , to be out Of prison and to get away from the place where he has been so long confined . 
Now he is at large in the open air . 
You may be sure that he would not go back again , were some one to gather in a pile and give to him all the gold there is scattered in the world . 
Behold Lancelot now released , but so feeble that he staggered from his weakness and disability . 
Gently , without hurting him , she sets him before her on her mule , and then they ride off rapidly . 
So she avoided the dangerous places and came to a mansion where she often makes her sojourn because of its beauty and charm . 
The entire estate and the people on it belonged to her , and the place was well furnished , safe , and private . 
She handled and treated him as gently as if he had been her father . 
Her treatment makes a new man of him , as she revives him with her cares . 
Now he is no less fair than an angel and is more nimble and more spry than anything you ever saw . 
When he arose , he was no longer mangy and haggard , but strong and handsome . 
And the damsel sought out for him the finest robe she could find , with which she clothed him when he arose . 
And he was glad to put it on , quicker than a bird in flight . 
He kissed and embraced the maid , and then said to her graciously My dear , I have only God and you to thank for being restored to health again . 
Since I owe my liberty to you , you may take and command at will my heart and body , my service and estate . 
Now , my sweet gentle friend , I beg you affectionately for leave to go then , with your consent , I should feel free to go . 
Lancelot , fair , sweet dear friend , I am quite willing , the damsel says I desire your honour and welfare above everything everywhere . 
Then to God , who never lies , they commend each other with good intent . 
Lancelot was so glad to be on the road that , if I should take an oath , I could not possibly describe the joy he felt at having escaped from his trap . 
But he said to himself repeatedly that woe was the traitor , the reprobate , whom now he has tricked and ridiculed , for in spite of him I have escaped . 
Then the rascally proven traitor asks him about Lancelot , whether he had been seen or found , as if he himself did not know the truth . 
As a matter of fact , he did not know the truth , although he thought he knew it well enough . 
And Gawain told him , as was true , that he had not been seen , and that he had not come . 
Well , since I don't find him , says Meleagant , do you come and keep the promise you made me I shall not longer wait for you . 
Then Gawain makes answer I will keep presently my word with you , if it please God in whom I place my trust . 
I expect to discharge my debt to you . 
Then without delay Gawain orders a rug to be thrown down and spread before him . 
There was no snivelling or attempt to run away when the squires heard this command , but without grumbling or complaint they execute what he commands . 
There were two of them , his cousins or nephews , I know not which , but they were accomplished and knew what to do . 
They arm him so skilfully and well that no one could find any fault in the world with them for any mistake in what they did . 
When they finished arming him , one of them went to fetch a Spanish steed able to cross the fields , woods , hills , and valleys more swiftly than the good Bucephalus . 
Upon a horse such as you have heard Gawain took his seat the admired and most accomplished knight upon whom the sign of the Cross was ever made . 
Already he was about to seize his shield , when he saw Lancelot dismount before him , whom he was not expecting to see . 
Now he is happy and at ease , when he has found his companion . 
Now I will tell you the truth , and you must not think I lie , that Gawain would not wish to be chosen king , unless he had Lancelot with him . 
The King and all the rest now learn that , in spite of all , Lancelot , for whom they so long have watched , has come back quite safe and sound . 
Therefore they all rejoice , and the court , which so long has looked for him , comes together to honour him . 
Their happiness dispels and drives away the sorrow which formerly was theirs . 
Grief takes flight and is replaced by an awakening joy . 
And how about the Queen ? Does she not share in the general jubilee ? Yes , verily , she first of all . 
How so ? For God's sake , where , then , could she be keeping herself ? She was never so glad in her life as she was for his return . 
And did she not even go to him ? Certainly she did she is so close to him that her body came near following her heart . 
Where is her heart , then ? It was kissing and welcoming Lancelot . 
If common sense had not banished this mad impulse and rash desire , her heart would have been revealed and her folly would have been complete . 
I have had search made for you up and down , all the winter and summer through , but no one could find a trace of you . 
Indeed , fair sire , says Lancelot , I can inform you in a few words exactly how it has fared with me . 
In return for the little favour I did her , she has repaid me liberally she has bestowed upon me great honour and blessing . 
But I wish to repay without delay him for whom I have no love , who has sought out and devised for me this shame and injury . 
Moreover , I am all ready and mounted , as you see . 
Fair , sweet friend , do not deny me the boon I desire and request . 
But Lancelot replies that he would rather have his eye plucked out , or even both of them , than be persuaded to do this he swears it shall never be so . 
He owes the debt and he will pay it himself for with his own hand he promised it . 
Gawain plainly sees that nothing he can say is of any avail , so he loosens and takes off his hauberk from his back , and completely disarms himself . 
Lancelot at once arms himself without delay for he is impatient to settle and discharge his debt . 
Meleagant , who is amazed beyond measure at what he sees , has reached the end of his good fortunes , and is about to receive what is owing him . 
He is almost beside himself and comes near fainting . 
I am sure his hiding place was revealed . 
No , that is not it it happened otherwise he was helped to escape , and could not have got out otherwise I have been outwitted through some trickery . 
At any rate , he has escaped but if I had been on my guard , all this would never have happened , and he would never have come to court . 
But it's too late now to repent . 
The rustic , who seldom errs , pertinently remarks that it is too late to close the stable when the horse is out . 
I know I shall now be exposed to great shame and humiliation , if indeed I do not suffer and endure something worse . 
What shall I suffer and endure ? Rather , so long as I live , I will give him full measure , if it please God , in whom I trust . 
Thus he consoles himself , and has no other desire than to meet his antagonist on the field . 
And he will not have long to wait , I think , for Lancelot goes in search of him , expecting soon to conquer him . 
But before the assault begins , the King bids them go down into the plain where the tower stands , the prettiest place this side of Ireland for a fight . 
So they did , and soon found themselves on the plain below . 
The King goes down too , and all the rest , men and women in crowds . 
Under this fair and stately sycamore , which was planted back in Abel's time , there rises a clear spring of water which flows away hurriedly . 
There it pleases the King to take his seat where nothing unpleasant is in sight . 
Then he spurs his steed and draws back the distance of a bow shot . 
Then they drive their horses toward each other at top speed , and strike each other so fiercely upon their resisting shields that they pierced and punctured them . 
But neither one is wounded , nor is the flesh touched in this first assault . 
They pass each other without delay , and come back at the top of their horses speed to renew their blows on the strong , stout shields . 
Both of the knights are strong and brave , and both of the horses are stout and fast . 
So mighty are the blows they deal on the shields about their necks that the lances passed clean through , without breaking or splintering , until the cold steel reached their flesh . 
The horses run riderless over hill and dale , but they kick and bite each other , thus showing their mortal hatred . 
As for the knights who fell to earth , they leaped up as quickly as possible and drew their swords , which were engraved with chiselled lettering . 
Holding their shields before the face , they strive to wound each other with their swords of steel . 
Lancelot stands in no fear of him , for he knew half as much again about fencing as did his antagonist , having learned it in his youth . 
Both dealt such blows on the shield slung from their necks , and upon their helmets barred with gold , that they crushed and damaged them . 
And when he felt the loss of his right arm , he said that it should be dearly sold . 
He smashes his nose guard against his teeth , breaking three of them in his mouth . 
Lancelot approaches and , unlacing his helmet , cuts off his head . 
Never more will this man trouble him it is all over with him as he falls dead . 
Not a soul who was present there felt any pity at the sight . 
The King and all the others there are jubilant and express their joy . 
Happier than they ever were before , they relieve Lancelot of his arms , and lead him away exultingly . 
My lords , if I should prolong my tale , it would be beside the purpose , and so I will conclude . 
Godefroi has finished it from the point where Lancelot was imprisoned in the tower . 
So much he wrote but he would fain add nothing more , for fear of disfiguring the tale . 
ENDNOTES NOTE Endnotes supplied by Prof . 
Foerster are indicated by all other endnotes are supplied by W. W. Comfort . 
Marie , daughter of Louis VII . 
of France and Eleanor of Aquitaine , married in , Henri I. , Count of Champagne . 
and the manner of treatment of this romance . 
The situation of Camelot has not been certainly determined . 
Foerster places it in Somersetshire , while F. Paris identified it with Colchester in Essex . 
The high value here set upon Kay by king Arthur is worth noting in view of the unfavourable light in which Chretien usually portrays him . 
For magic beds with descending swords , see A. Hertel , Versauberte Oertlichkeiten , etc . 
The wounded knight is the defeated seneschal . 
Lancelot has constantly in mind the Queen , for whose sake he is enduring all this pain and shame . 
Nothing can here be added to the tentative conjectures of Foerster regarding the nature of these unknown remedies . 
A great annual fair at Paris marked the festival , on June , of St . 
Denis , the patron saint of the city . 
is the reading chosen by Foerster from a number of variants . 
None of these variants has any significance , but a place name rhyming with tonbes in the preceding verse is required . 
Modern Dombes is the name of a former principality in Burgundy , between the Rhone and the Saone , while Pampelune is , of course , a Spanish city near the French frontier . 
The topography of the kingdom of Gorre , the land where dwell the captives held by King Bademagu , is much confused . 
One would suppose at first that the stream traversed by the two perilous bridges formed the frontier of the kingdom . 
, before reaching such a frontier , the captives are already met . 
, and which , though not within the limits of the kingdom , is nevertheless beneath the sway of Bademagu . 
For magic rings , see A. Hertel , op . 
This dame was the fairy Vivian , the lady of the lake . 
A good example of the moral dilemmas in which Chretien delights to place his characters . 
Under the displeasing shell of allegory and mediaeval casuistry we have here the germ of psychological analysis of motive . 
The universities of Montpellier and of Salerno were the chief centres of medical study in the Middle Ages . 
Salerno is referred to in Cliges , v . 
The hero of the poem is here first mentioned by name . 
The classic love story of Pyramus and Thisbe , told by Ovid et al . 
, was a favourite in the Middle Ages . 
The expression or est venuz qui aunera , less literally means who will defeat the entire field . 
Though Chretien refers to the expression as a current proverb , only two other examples of its use have been found . 
, but as Foerster says , the text hardly warrants the supposition . 
It is not known why Chretien dropped the poem where he did . 
The situation recalls that in Aucassin et Nicolette , where Aucassin confined in the tower hears his sweetheart calling to him from outside . 
The figure is , of course , taken from the game of throwing dice for high points . 
For an exhaustive account of dice playing derived from old French texts , cf . 
Franz Semrau , Wurfel und Wurfelspiel in alten Frankreich , Beiheft of Ztsch . 
