The Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass An American Slave This electronic book is being released at this time to honor the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr . 
Born January , Officially celebrated January , NARRATIVE OF THE LIFE OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS , AN AMERICAN SLAVE . 
BOSTON PUBLISHED AT THE ANTI SLAVERY OFFICE , NO . 
So I believed at that time such is my belief now . 
He has borne him self with gentleness and meekness , yet with true manliness of character . 
As a public speaker , he excels in pathos , wit , comparison , imitation , strength of reasoning , and fluency of language . 
There is in him that union of head and heart , which is indispensable to an enlightenment of the heads and a winning of the hearts of others . 
No matter , said Mr. O'CONNELL , under what specious term it may disguise itself , slavery is still hideous . 
It has a natural , an inevitable tendency to brutalize every noble faculty of man . 
Mr. DOUGLASS has very properly chosen to write his own Narrative , in his own style , and according to the best of his ability , rather than to employ some one else . 
Many have suffered incomparably more , while very few on the plantations have suf fered less , than himself . 
Such will try to discredit the shocking tales of slaveholding cruelty which are recorded in this truthful Narrative but they will labor in vain . 
His statements , there fore , may easily be disproved , if they are untrue . 
Mr. DOUGLASS states that in neither of these instances was any thing done by way of legal arrest or judicial investigation . 
The Baltimore Amer ican , of March , , relates a similar case of atrocity , perpetrated with similar impunity as fol lows Shooting a slave . 
He immedi ately , the letter continues , fled to his father's resi dence , where he still remains unmolested . 
By the slave code , they are adjudged to be as incompetent to testify against a white man , as though they were indeed a part of the brute creation . 
Hence , there is no legal protection in fact , whatever there may be in form , for the slave population and any amount of cruelty may be inflicted on them with impunity . 
In the nature of the case , it must be in the highest degree pernicious . 
The testimony of Mr. DOUGLASS , on this point , is sustained by a cloud of witnesses , whose veracity is unimpeachable . 
A slave holder's profession of Christianity is a palpable im posture . 
He is a felon of the highest grade . 
He is a man stealer . 
It is of no importance what you put in the other scale . 
LLOYD GARRISON BOSTON , May , . 
LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS , ESQ . 
My Dear Friend You remember the old fable of The Man and the Lion , where the lion complained that he should not be so misrepresented when the lions wrote his tory . 
I am glad the time has come when the lions write history . 
We have been left long enough to gather the character of slavery from the involuntary evidence of the masters . 
I remember that , in , many were waiting for the results of the West India experiment , before they could come into our ranks . 
Those results have come long ago but , alas ! few of that number have come with them , as converts . 
I was glad to learn , in your story , how early the most neglected of God's children waken to a sense of their rights , and of the injustice done them . 
In connection with this , there is one circumstance which makes your recollections peculiarly valuable , and renders your early insight the more remarkable . 
You come from that part of the country where we are told slavery appears with its fairest features . 
Valley of the Shadow of Death , where the Mississippi sweeps along . 
Again , we have known you long , and can put the most entire confidence in your truth , candor , and sincerity . 
No one sided portrait , no wholesale complaints , but strict justice done , whenever individual kindliness has neutralized , for a moment , the deadly system with which it was strangely allied . 
They are the essential ingredients , not the occasional results , of the system . 
After all , I shall read your book with trembling for you . 
Some years ago , when you were beginning to tell me your real name and birthplace , you may remember I stopped you , and preferred to remain ignorant of all . 
With the exception of a vague de scription , so I continued , till the other day , when you read me your memoirs . 
You , too , publish your declaration of freedom with danger compassing you around . 
The whole armory of North ern Law has no shield for you . 
I am free to say that , in your place , I should throw the MS . 
God speed the day ! Till then , and ever , Yours truly , WENDELL PHILLIPS FREDERICK DOUGLASS . 
Frederick Douglass was born in slavery as Fred erick Augustus Washington Bailey near Easton in Talbot County , Maryland . 
He was not sure of the exact year of his birth , but he knew that it was or . 
As a young boy he was sent to Baltimore , to be a house servant , where he learned to read and write , with the assistance of his master's wife . 
In he escaped from slavery and went to New York City , where he married Anna Murray , a free colored woman whom he had met in Baltimore . 
Soon there after he changed his name to Frederick Douglass . 
In he addressed a convention of the Massa chusetts Anti Slavery Society in Nantucket and so greatly impressed the group that they immediately employed him as an agent . 
He was such an impres sive orator that numerous persons doubted if he had ever been a slave , so he wrote NARRATIVE OF THE LIFE OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS . 
During the Civil War he as sisted in the recruiting of colored men for the th and th Massachusetts Regiments and consistently argued for the emancipation of slaves . 
After the war he was active in securing and protecting the rights of the freemen . 
His other autobiographical works are MY BONDAGE AND MY FREEDOM and LIFE AND TIMES OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS , published in and respectively . 
CHAPTER I I was born in Tuckahoe , near Hillsborough , and about twelve miles from Easton , in Talbot county , Maryland . 
I have no accurate knowledge of my age , never having seen any authentic record containing it . 
I do not remember to have ever met a slave who could tell of his birthday . 
They seldom come nearer to it than planting time , harvest time , cherry time , spring time , or fall time . 
A want of information concerning my own was a source of unhappiness to me even during childhood . 
The white children could tell their ages . 
I could not tell why I ought to be deprived of the same privilege . 
I was not allowed to make any inquiries of my master con cerning it . 
He deemed all such inquiries on the part of a slave improper and impertinent , and evidence of a restless spirit . 
The nearest estimate I can give makes me now between twenty seven and twenty eight years of age . 
I come to this , from hearing my master say , some time during , I was about seventeen years old . 
My mother was named Harriet Bailey . 
She was the daughter of Isaac and Betsey Bailey , both col ored , and quite dark . 
My mother was of a darker complexion than either my grandmother or grand father . 
My father was a white man . 
He was admitted to be such by all I ever heard speak of my parentage . 
The opinion was also whispered that my master was my father but of the correctness of this opinion , I know nothing the means of knowing was withheld from me . 
My mother and I were separated when I was but an infant before I knew her as my mother . 
It is a common custom , in the part of Maryland from which I ran away , to part children from their mothers at a very early age . 
This is the inevitable result . 
She was hired by a Mr. Stewart , who lived about twelve miles from my home . 
She made her journeys to see me in the night , travelling the whole distance on foot , after the performance of her day's work . 
I do not recollect of ever seeing my mother by the light of day . 
She was with me in the night . 
She would lie down with me , and get me to sleep , but long before I waked she was gone . 
Very little communication ever took place between us . 
Death soon ended what little we could have while she lived , and with it her hardships and suffering . 
She died when I was about seven years old , on one of my master's farms , near Lee's Mill . 
I was not al lowed to be present during her illness , at her death , or burial . 
She was gone long before I knew any thing about it . 
Called thus suddenly away , she left me without the slightest intimation of who my father was . 
I know of such cases and it is worthy of remark that such slaves invariably suffer greater hardships , and have more to contend with , than others . 
They are , in the first place , a constant offence to their mistress . 
Every year brings with it multitudes of this class of slaves . 
It was doubtless in consequence of a knowl edge of this fact , that one great statesman of the south predicted the downfall of slavery by the in evitable laws of population . 
I have had two masters . 
My first master's name was Anthony . 
I do not remember his first name . 
He was generally called Captain Anthony a title which , I presume , he acquired by sailing a craft on the Chesapeake Bay . 
He was not considered a rich slaveholder . 
He owned two or three farms , and about thirty slaves . 
His farms and slaves were under the care of an overseer . 
The overseer's name was Plummer . 
Mr. Plummer was a miserable drunkard , a profane swearer , and a savage monster . 
He always went armed with a cowskin and a heavy cudgel . 
Master , however , was not a humane slaveholder . 
It required extraordinary bar barity on the part of an overseer to affect him . 
He was a cruel man , hardened by a long life of slave holding . 
He would at times seem to take great pleas ure in whipping a slave . 
No words , no tears , no prayers , from his gory victim , seemed to move his iron heart from its bloody purpose . 
The louder she screamed , the harder he whipped and where the blood ran fastest , there he whipped longest . 
He would whip her to make her scream , and whip her to make her hush and not until overcome by fatigue , would he cease to swing the blood clotted cowskin . 
I remember the first time I ever witnessed this hor rible exhibition . 
I was quite a child , but I well re member it . 
I never shall forget it whilst I remember any thing . 
It was the first of a long series of such out rages , of which I was doomed to be a witness and a participant . 
It struck me with awful force . 
It was the blood stained gate , the entrance to the hell of slavery , through which I was about to pass . 
It was a most terrible spectacle . 
I wish I could commit to paper the feelings with which I beheld it . 
This occurrence took place very soon after I went to live with my old master , and under the following circumstances . 
Aunt Hester went out one night , where or for what I do not know , and happened to be absent when my master desired her presence . 
The young man's name was Ned Roberts , generally called Lloyd's Ned . 
Why master was so careful of her , may be safely left to conjecture . 
Before he commenced whipping Aunt Hester , he took her into the kitchen , and stripped her from neck to waist , leaving her neck , shoulders , and back , entirely naked . 
He then told her to cross her hands , calling her at the same time a d d b h . 
After crossing her hands , he tied them with a strong rope , and led her to a stool under a large hook in the joist , put in for the purpose . 
He made her get upon the stool , and tied her hands to the hook . 
She now stood fair for his infernal purpose . 
Her arms were stretched up at their full length , so that she stood upon the ends of her toes . 
came dripping to the floor . 
I was so terrified and horror stricken at the sight , that I hid myself in a closet , and dared not venture out till long after the bloody transaction was over . 
I expected it would be my turn next . 
It was all new to me . 
I had never seen any thing like it before . 
I had always lived with my grandmother on the outskirts of the plantation , where she was put to raise the children of the younger women . 
I had there fore been , until now , out of the way of the bloody scenes that often occurred on the plantation . 
CHAPTER II My master's family consisted of two sons , Andrew and Richard one daughter , Lucretia , and her hus band , Captain Thomas Auld . 
They lived in one house , upon the home plantation of Colonel Edward Lloyd . 
My master was Colonel Lloyd's clerk and superintendent . 
He was what might be called the overseer of the overseers . 
I spent two years of child hood on this plantation in my old master's family . 
The plantation is about twelve miles north of Easton , in Talbot county , and is situated on the border of Miles River . 
The principal products raised upon it were tobacco , corn , and wheat . 
This sloop was named Sally Lloyd , in honor of one of the colonel's daughters . 
My mas ter's son in law , Captain Auld , was master of the vessel she was otherwise manned by the colonel's own slaves . 
Their names were Peter , Isaac , Rich , and Jake . 
Colonel Lloyd kept from three to four hundred slaves on his home plantation , and owned a large number more on the neighboring farms belonging to him . 
The names of the farms nearest to the home plantation were Wye Town and New Design . 
Wye Town was under the overseership of a man named Noah Willis . 
New Design was under the overseer ship of a Mr. Townsend . 
The overseers of these , and all the rest of the farms , numbering over twenty , received advice and direction from the managers of the home plantation . 
This was the great business place . 
It was the seat of government for the whole twenty farms . 
All disputes among the overseers were settled here . 
Here , too , the slaves of all the other farms received their monthly allowance of food , and their yearly clothing . 
The men and women slaves received , as their monthly allowance of food , eight pounds of pork , or its equivalent in fish , and one bushel of corn meal . 
The allowance of the slave children was given to their mothers , or the old women having the care of them . 
The chil dren unable to work in the field had neither shoes , stockings , jackets , nor trousers , given to them their clothing consisted of two coarse linen shirts per year . 
When these failed them , they went naked until the next allowance day . 
Children from seven to ten years old , of both sexes , almost naked , might be seen at all seasons of the year . 
There were no beds given the slaves , unless one coarse blanket be considered such , and none but the men and women had these . 
This , however , is not considered a very great privation . 
At the sound of this , all must rise , and be off to the field . 
Mr. Severe was rightly named he was a cruel man . 
He seemed to take pleasure in manifesting his fiendish barbarity . 
Added to his cruelty , he was a profane swearer . 
It was enough to chill the blood and stiffen the hair of an ordinary man to hear him talk . 
Scarce a sentence escaped him but that was commenced or concluded by some hor rid oath . 
The field was the place to witness his cruelty and profanity . 
His presence made it both the field of blood and of blasphemy . 
From the rising till the going down of the sun , he was cursing , raving , cutting , and slashing among the slaves of the field , in the most frightful manner . 
He died very soon after I went to Colonel Lloyd's and he died as he lived , uttering , with his dying groans , bitter curses and horrid oaths . 
His death was regarded by the slaves as the result of a merciful providence . 
Mr. Severe's place was filled by a Mr. Hopkins . 
He was a very different man . 
He was less cruel , less profane , and made less noise , than Mr. Severe . 
His course was characterized by no extraordinary demon strations of cruelty . 
He whipped , but seemed to take no pleasure in it . 
He was called by the slaves a good overseer . 
The home plantation of Colonel Lloyd wore the appearance of a country village . 
All the mechanical operations for all the farms were performed here . 
The shoemaking and mending , the blacksmithing , cartwrighting , coopering , weaving , and grain grind ing , were all performed by the slaves on the home plantation . 
The whole place wore a business like as pect very unlike the neighboring farms . 
The num ber of houses , too , conspired to give it advantage over the neighboring farms . 
It was called by the slaves the Great House Farm . 
Few privileges were esteemed higher , by the slaves of the out farms , than that of being selected to do errands at the Great House Farm . 
It was associated in their minds with greatness . 
He was called the smartest and most trusty fel low , who had this honor conferred upon him the most frequently . 
The competitors for this office sought as diligently to please their overseers , as the office seekers in the political parties seek to please and deceive the people . 
The same traits of character might be seen in Colonel Lloyd's slaves , as are seen in the slaves of the political parties . 
The slaves selected to go to the Great House Farm , for the monthly allowance for themselves and their fellow slaves , were peculiarly enthusiastic . 
While on their way , they would make the dense old woods , for miles around , reverberate with their wild songs , revealing at once the highest joy and the deepest sadness . 
They would compose and sing as they went along , consulting neither time nor tune . 
The thought that came up , came out if not in the word , in the sound and as frequently in the one as in the other . 
They would sometimes sing the most pathetic senti ment in the most rapturous tone , and the most rap turous sentiment in the most pathetic tone . 
Into all of their songs they would manage to weave some thing of the Great House Farm . 
Especially would they do this , when leaving home . 
I did not , when a slave , understand the deep meaning of those rude and apparently incoherent songs . 
I was myself within the circle so that I nei ther saw nor heard as those without might see and hear . 
Every tone was a testimony against slavery , and a prayer to God for deliverance from chains . 
The hearing of those wild notes always de pressed my spirit , and filled me with ineffable sad ness . 
I have frequently found myself in tears while hearing them . 
The mere recurrence to those songs , even now , afflicts me and while I am writing these lines , an expression of feeling has already found its way down my cheek . 
To those songs I trace my first glimmering conception of the dehumanizing char acter of slavery . 
I can never get rid of that concep tion . 
Those songs still follow me , to deepen my hatred of slavery , and quicken my sympathies for my brethren in bonds . 
It is impossible to conceive of a greater mistake . 
Slaves sing most when they are most unhappy . 
The songs of the slave represent the sorrows of his heart and he is relieved by them , only as an aching heart is relieved by its tears . 
At least , such is my experience . 
I have often sung to drown my sorrow , but seldom to express my happiness . 
Crying for joy , and singing for joy , were alike un common to me while in the jaws of slavery . 
This garden was probably the great est attraction of the place . 
During the summer months , people came from far and near from Baltimore , Easton , and Annapolis to see it . 
It abounded in fruits of almost every description , from the hardy apple of the north to the delicate orange of the south . 
This garden was not the least source of trouble on the plantation . 
Scarcely a day passed , during the summer , but that some slave had to take the lash for stealing fruit . 
The colonel had to resort to all kinds of stratagems to keep his slaves out of the garden . 
In either case , he was severely whip ped by the chief gardener . 
This plan worked well the slaves became as fearful of tar as of the lash . 
They seemed to realize the impossibility of touching TAR without being defiled . 
The colonel also kept a splendid riding equipage . 
His stable and carriage house presented the appear ance of some of our large city livery establishments . 
His horses were of the finest form and noblest blood . 
His carriage house contained three splendid coaches , three or four gigs , besides dearborns and barouches of the most fashionable style . 
This establishment was under the care of two slaves old Barney and young Barney father and son . 
To attend to this establishment was their sole work . 
But it was by no means an easy employment for in nothing was Colonel Lloyd more particular than in the management of his horses . 
They never knew when they were safe from punish ment . 
They were frequently whipped when least deserving , and escaped whipping when most deserv ing it . 
Every thing depended upon the looks of the horses , and the state of Colonel Lloyd's own mind when his horses were brought to him for use . 
If a horse did not move fast enough , or hold his head high enough , it was owing to some fault of his keep ers . 
It was painful to stand near the stable door , and hear the various complaints against the keepers when a horse was taken out for use . 
This horse has not had proper attention . 
To all these com plaints , no matter how unjust , the slave must an swer never a word . 
Colonel Lloyd could not brook any contradiction from a slave . 
When he spoke , a slave must stand , listen , and tremble and such was literally the case . 
Colonel Lloyd had three sons Edward , Mur ray , and Daniel , and three sons in law , Mr. Winder , Mr. Nicholson , and Mr. Lowndes . 
All of these lived at the Great House Farm , and enjoyed the luxury of whipping the servants when they pleased , from old Barney down to William Wilkes , the coach driver . 
To describe the wealth of Colonel Lloyd would be almost equal to describing the riches of Job . 
He kept from ten to fifteen house servants . 
He was said to own a thousand slaves , and I think this estimate quite within the truth . 
Colonel Lloyd owned so many that he did not know them when he saw them nor did all the slaves of the out farms know him . 
Well , does the colonel treat you well ? No , sir , was the ready reply . 
What , does he work you too hard ? Yes , sir . 
Well , don't he give you enough to eat ? Yes , sir , he gives me enough , such as it is . 
The colonel , after ascertaining where the slave belonged , rode on the man also went on about his business , not dreaming that he had been conversing with his master . 
He thought , said , and heard noth ing more of the matter , until two or three weeks afterwards . 
The poor man was then informed by his overseer that , for having found fault with his master , he was now to be sold to a Georgia trader . 
This is the penalty of telling the truth , of telling the simple truth , in answer to a series of plain questions . 
The slaveholders have been known to send in spies among their slaves , to ascertain their views and feel ings in regard to their condition . 
The frequency of this has had the effect to establish among the slaves the maxim , that a still tongue makes a wise head . 
They suppress the truth rather than take the con sequences of telling it , and in so doing prove them selves a part of the human family . 
If they have any thing to say of their masters , it is generally in their masters' favor , especially when speaking to an un tried man . 
Moreover , slaves are like other people , and imbibe prejudices quite common to others . 
They think their own better than that of others . 
At the very same time , they mutually execrate their masters when viewed separately . 
It was so on our plantation . 
Colonel Lloyd's slaves would boast his ability to buy and sell Jacob Jepson . 
Mr. Jepson's slaves would boast his ability to whip Colonel Lloyd . 
These quarrels would almost always end in a fight between the parties , and those that whipped were supposed to have gained the point at issue . 
They seemed to think that the great ness of their masters was transferable to themselves . 
Why his career was so short , I do not know , but suppose he lacked the necessary severity to suit Colonel Lloyd . 
Mr. Gore was proud , ambitious , and persevering . 
He was artful , cruel , and obdurate . 
He was just the man for such a place , and it was just the place for such a man . 
It afforded scope for the full exercise of all his powers , and he seemed to be perfectly at home in it . 
He was one of those who could torture the slightest look , word , or gesture , on the part of the slave , into impudence , and would treat it ac cordingly . 
There must be no answering back to him no explanation was allowed a slave , showing himself to have been wrongfully accused . 
No matter how innocent a slave might be it availed him nothing , when accused by Mr. Gore of any misdemeanor . 
To be accused was to be convicted , and to be convicted was to be punished the one always following the other with immutable certainty . 
To escape punishment was to escape accusation and few slaves had the fortune to do either , under the overseership of Mr. Gore . 
He was just proud enough to demand the most debasing homage of the slave , and quite servile enough to crouch , himself , at the feet of the master . 
He was ambitious enough to be contented with nothing short of the highest rank of overseers , and persevering enough to reach the height of his ambition . 
He was , of all the overseers , the most dreaded by the slaves . 
His presence was painful his eye flashed confusion and seldom was his sharp , shrill voice heard , without producing horror and trembling in their ranks . 
Mr. Gore was a grave man , and , though a young man , he indulged in no jokes , said no funny words , seldom smiled . 
His words were in perfect keeping with his looks , and his looks were in perfect keeping with his words . 
Overseers will sometimes indulge in a witty word , even with the slaves not so with Mr. Gore . 
When he whipped , he seemed to do so from a sense of duty , and feared no consequences . 
He did nothing reluctantly , no matter how disagreeable always at his post , never inconsistent . 
He never promised but to fulfil . 
He was , in a word , a man of the most in flexible firmness and stone like coolness . 
His savage barbarity was equalled only by the con summate coolness with which he committed the grossest and most savage deeds upon the slaves under his charge . 
Mr. Gore once undertook to whip one of Colonel Lloyd's slaves , by the name of Demby . 
Mr. Gore told him that he would give him three calls , and that , if he did not come out at the third call , he would shoot him . 
The first call was given . 
Demby made no response , but stood his ground . 
The second and third calls were given with the same result . 
His mangled body sank out of sight , and blood and brains marked the water where he had stood . 
A thrill of horror flashed through every soul upon the plantation , excepting Mr. Gore . 
He alone seemed cool and collected . 
He was asked by Colonel Lloyd and my old master , why he resorted to this extraordinary expedient . 
that Demby had become unman ageable . 
Mr. Gore's de fence was satisfactory . 
He was continued in his sta tion as overseer upon the home plantation . 
His fame as an overseer went abroad . 
His horrid crime was not even submitted to judicial investigation . 
Mr. Gore lived in St . 
Mr. Thomas Lanman , of St . 
Michael's , killed two slaves , one of whom he killed with a hatchet , by knocking his brains out . 
He used to boast of the commission of the awful and bloody deed . 
She , having lost her rest for several nights previous , did not hear the crying . 
They were both in the room with Mrs. Hicks . 
I will not say that this most horrid murder produced no sen sation in the community . 
It did produce sensation , but not enough to bring the murderess to punish ment . 
There was a warrant issued for her arrest , but it was never served . 
Thus she escaped not only punishment , but even the pain of being arraigned before a court for her horrid crime . 
An old man belonging to Colonel Lloyd , while thus engaged , happened to get beyond the limits of Colonel Lloyd's , and on the premises of Mr. Beal Bondly . 
At this trespass , Mr. Bondly took offence , and with his musket came down to the shore , and blew its deadly contents into the poor old man . 
Mr. Bondly came over to see Colonel Lloyd the next day , whether to pay him for his property , or to justify himself in what he had done , I know not . 
At any rate , this whole fiendish transaction was soon hushed up . 
There was very little said about it at all , and nothing done . 
It was a common saying , even among little white boys , that it was worth a half cent to kill a nigger , and a half cent to bury one . 
CHAPTER V As to my own treatment while I lived on Colonel Lloyd's plantation , it was very similar to that of the other slave children . 
I was not old enough to work in the field , and there being little else than field work to do , I had a great deal of leisure time . 
The most of my lei sure time I spent in helping Master Daniel Lloyd in finding his birds , after he had shot them . 
My connection with Master Daniel was of some advan tage to me . 
He became quite attached to me , and was a sort of protector of me . 
He would not allow the older boys to impose upon me , and would divide his cakes with me . 
I was seldom whipped by my old master , and suf fered little from any thing else than hunger and cold . 
I suffered much from hunger , but much more from cold . 
I must have perished with cold , but that , the coldest nights , I used to steal a bag which was used for carry ing corn to the mill . 
I would crawl into this bag , and there sleep on the cold , damp , clay floor , with my head in and feet out . 
My feet have been so cracked with the frost , that the pen with which I am writing might be laid in the gashes . 
We were not regularly allowanced . 
Our food was coarse corn meal boiled . 
It was put into a large wooden tray or trough , and set down upon the ground . 
He that ate fastest got most he that was strongest secured the best place and few left the trough satisfied . 
I was probably between seven and eight years old when I left Colonel Lloyd's plantation . 
I left it with joy . 
had determined to let me go to Baltimore , to live with Mr. Hugh Auld , brother to my old master's son in law , Captain Thomas Auld . 
I re ceived this information about three days before my departure . 
They were three of the happiest days I ever enjoyed . 
I spent the most part of all these three days in the creek , washing off the plantation scurf , and preparing myself for my departure . 
The pride of appearance which this would indicate was not my own . 
Besides , she was going to give me a pair of trousers , which I should not put on unless I got all the dirt off me . 
I went at it in good earnest , working for the first time with the hope of reward . 
The ties that ordinarily bind children to their homes were all suspended in my case . 
I found no severe trial in my departure . 
My home was charm less it was not home to me on parting from it , I could not feel that I was leaving any thing which I could have enjoyed by staying . 
My mother was dead , my grandmother lived far off , so that I seldom saw her . 
I looked for home elsewhere , and was confident of finding none which I should relish less than the one which I was leaving . 
I had the strongest desire to see Baltimore . 
Cousin Tom , though not fluent in speech , had inspired me with that desire by his eloquent description of the place . 
Even the Great House itself , with all its pictures , was far inferior to many buildings in Bal timore . 
So strong was my desire , that I thought a gratification of it would fully compensate for what ever loss of comforts I should sustain by the ex change . 
I left without a regret , and with the highest hopes of future happiness . 
We sailed out of Miles River for Baltimore on a Saturday morning . 
I remember only the day of the week , for at that time I had no knowledge of the days of the month , nor the months of the year . 
On setting sail , I walked aft , and gave to Colonel Lloyd's plantation what I hoped would be the last look . 
In the afternoon of that day , we reached Annap olis , the capital of the State . 
We stopped but a few moments , so that I had no time to go on shore . 
Mr. and Mrs. Auld were both at home , and met me at the door with their little son Thomas , to take care of whom I had been given . 
And here I saw what I had never seen before it was a white face beaming with the most kindly emotions it was the face of my new mistress , Sophia Auld . 
I wish I could de scribe the rapture that flashed through my soul as I beheld it . 
It was a new and strange sight to me , brightening up my pathway with the light of happi ness . 
I look upon my departure from Colonel Lloyd's plantation as one of the most interesting events of my life . 
Going to live at Baltimore laid the foundation , and opened the gateway , to all my subsequent prosperity . 
I have ever regarded it as the first plain manifestation of that kind provi dence which has ever since attended me , and marked my life with so many favors . 
I regarded the selection of myself as being somewhat remarkable . 
There were a number of slave children that might have been sent from the plantation to Baltimore . 
There were those younger , those older , and those of the same age . 
I was chosen from among them all , and was the first , last , and only choice . 
I may be deemed superstitious , and even egotisti cal , in regarding this event as a special interposition of divine Providence in my favor . 
But I should be false to the earliest sentiments of my soul , if I sup pressed the opinion . 
I prefer to be true to myself , even at the hazard of incurring the ridicule of others , rather than to be false , and incur my own abhor rence . 
This good spirit was from God , and to him I offer thanksgiving and praise . 
CHAPTER VI My new mistress proved to be all she appeared when I first met her at the door , a woman of the kindest heart and finest feelings . 
She had never had a slave under her control previously to myself , and prior to her marriage she had been dependent upon her own industry for a living . 
She was by trade a weaver and by constant application to her business , she had been in a good degree preserved from the blighting and dehumanizing effects of slavery . 
I was utterly astonished at her goodness . 
I scarcely knew how to behave towards her . 
She was entirely unlike any other white woman I had ever seen . 
I could not approach her as I was accustomed to approach other white ladies . 
My early instruction was all out of place . 
The crouching servility , usually so acceptable a quality in a slave , did not answer when manifested toward her . 
Her favor was not gained by it she seemed to be disturbed by it . 
She did not deem it impudent or unmannerly for a slave to look her in the face . 
The meanest slave was put fully at ease in her presence , and none left without feeling bet ter for having seen her . 
Her face was made of heav enly smiles , and her voice of tranquil music . 
But , alas ! this kind heart had but a short time to remain such . 
The fatal poison of irresponsible power was already in her hands , and soon commenced its infernal work . 
To use his own words , further , he said , If you give a nigger an inch , he will take an ell . 
A nigger should know nothing but to obey his master to do as he is told to do . 
Learning would spoil the best nigger in the world . 
how to read , there would be no keeping him . 
It would for ever unfit him to be a slave . 
He would at once be come unmanageable , and of no value to his master . 
As to himself , it could do him no good , but a great deal of harm . 
It would make him discontented and unhappy . 
These words sank deep into my heart , stirred up sentiments within that lay slumbering , and called into existence an entirely new train of thought . 
It was a new and special revelation , ex plaining dark and mysterious things , with which my youthful understanding had struggled , but struggled in vain . 
I now understood what had been to me a most perplexing difficulty to wit , the white man's power to enslave the black man . 
It was a grand achievement , and I prized it highly . 
From that mo ment , I understood the pathway from slavery to free dom . 
It was just what I wanted , and I got it at a time when I the least expected it . 
It gave me the best assurance that I might rely with the utmost confi dence on the results which , he said , would flow from teaching me to read . 
What he most dreaded , that I most desired . 
What he most loved , that I most hated . 
In learning to read , I owe almost as much to the bitter opposition of my master , as to the kindly aid of my mistress . 
I acknowledge the benefit of both . 
I had resided but a short time in Baltimore before I observed a marked difference , in the treatment of slaves , from that which I had witnessed in the coun try . 
A city slave is almost a freeman , compared with a slave on the plantation . 
He is much better fed and clothed , and enjoys privileges altogether unknown to the slave on the plantation . 
There is a vestige of decency , a sense of shame , that does much to curb and check those outbreaks of atrocious cruelty so commonly enacted upon the plantation . 
He is a des perate slaveholder , who will shock the humanity of his non slaveholding neighbors with the cries of his lacerated slave . 
There are , however , some painful exceptions to this rule . 
Directly opposite to us , on Philpot Street , lived Mr. Thomas Hamilton . 
Their names were Henrietta and Mary . 
Henrietta was about twenty two years of age , Mary was about four teen and of all the mangled and emaciated creatures I ever looked upon , these two were the most so . 
His heart must be harder than stone , that could look upon these unmoved . 
The head , neck , and shoulders of Mary were literally cut to pieces . 
I have fre quently felt her head , and found it nearly covered with festering sores , caused by the lash of her cruel mistress . 
I do not know that her master ever whipped her , but I have been an eye witness to the cruelty of Mrs. Hamilton . 
I used to be in Mr. Hamilton's house nearly every day . 
They seldom knew what it was to eat a full meal . 
I have seen Mary contending with the pigs for the offal thrown into the street . 
So much was Mary kicked and cut to pieces , that she was oftener called pecked than by her name . 
CHAPTER VII I lived in Master Hugh's family about seven years . 
During this time , I succeeded in learning to read and write . 
In accomplishing this , I was compelled to re sort to various stratagems . 
I had no regular teacher . 
It is due , however , to my mistress to say of her , that she did not adopt this course of treat ment immediately . 
She at first lacked the depravity indispensable to shutting me up in mental darkness . 
Slavery proved as injurious to her as it did to me . 
When I went there , she was a pious , warm , and tender hearted woman . 
There was no sorrow or suffering for which she had not a tear . 
She had bread for the hungry , clothes for the naked , and comfort for every mourner that came within her reach . 
Slavery soon proved its ability to divest her of these heavenly qualities . 
Under its in fluence , the tender heart became stone , and the lamblike disposition gave way to one of tiger like fierceness . 
The first step in her downward course was in her ceasing to instruct me . 
She now commenced to practise her husband's precepts . 
She finally be came even more violent in her opposition than her husband himself . 
She was not satisfied with simply doing as well as he had commanded she seemed anxious to do better . 
Nothing seemed to make her more angry than to see me with a newspaper . 
She seemed to think that here lay the danger . 
I have had her rush at me with a face made all up of fury , and snatch from me a newspaper , in a manner that fully revealed her apprehension . 
She was an apt woman and a little experience soon demonstrated , to her satisfaction , that education and slavery were incom patible with each other . 
From this time I was most narrowly watched . 
All this , however , was too late . 
The first step had been taken . 
Mistress , in teaching me the alphabet , had given me the inch , and no precaution could pre vent me from taking the ell . 
The plan which I adopted , and the one by which I was most successful , was that of making friends of all the little white boys whom I met in the street . 
As many of these as I could , I converted into teach ers . 
With their kindly aid , obtained at different times and in different places , I finally succeeded in learn ing to read . 
This bread I used to be stow upon the hungry little urchins , who , in return , would give me that more valuable bread of knowl edge . 
It is enough to say of the dear little fellows , that they lived on Philpot Street , very near Durgin and Bailey's ship yard . 
I used to talk this matter of slavery over with them . 
I would sometimes say to them , I wished I could be as free as they would be when they got to be men . 
I was now about twelve years old , and the thought of being a slave for life began to bear heavily upon my heart . 
Just about this time , I got hold of a book entitled The Columbian Orator . 
Every opportu nity I got , I used to read this book . 
Among much of other interesting matter , I found in it a dialogue be tween a master and his slave . 
The slave was repre sented as having run away from his master three times . 
The dialogue represented the conversation which took place between them , when the slave was retaken the third time . 
In this dialogue , the whole argument in behalf of slavery was brought forward by the master , all of which was disposed of by the slave . 
In the same book , I met with one of Sheridan's mighty speeches on and in behalf of Catholic eman cipation . 
These were choice documents to me . 
I read them over and over again with unabated interest . 
They gave tongue to interesting thoughts of my own soul , which had frequently flashed through my mind , and died away for want of utterance . 
The moral which I gained from the dialogue was the power of truth over the conscience of even a slaveholder . 
What I got from Sheridan was a bold denunciation of slav ery , and a powerful vindication of human rights . 
The more I read , the more I was led to abhor and detest my enslavers . 
I loathed them as being the meanest as well as the most wicked of men . 
As I writhed under it , I would at times feel that learning to read had been a curse rather than a bless ing . 
It had given me a view of my wretched condi tion , without the remedy . 
It opened my eyes to the horrible pit , but to no ladder upon which to get out . 
In moments of agony , I envied my fellow slaves for their stupidity . 
I have often wished myself a beast . 
I preferred the condition of the meanest reptile to my own . 
Any thing , no matter what , to get rid of thinking ! It was this everlasting thinking of my con dition that tormented me . 
There was no getting rid of it . 
It was pressed upon me by every object within sight or hearing , animate or inanimate . 
The silver trump of freedom had roused my soul to eternal wakefulness . 
Freedom now appeared , to disappear no more forever . 
It was heard in every sound , and seen in every thing . 
It was ever present to torment me with a sense of my wretched condition . 
I saw nothing without seeing it , I heard nothing without hearing it , and felt nothing without feeling it . 
It looked from every star , it smiled in every calm , breathed in every wind , and moved in every storm . 
While in this state of mind , I was eager to hear any one speak of slavery . 
I was a ready listener . 
Every little while , I could hear something about the abolitionists . 
It was some time before I found what the word meant . 
It was always used in such connections as to make it an interesting word to me . 
Hearing the word in this connection very often , I set about learning what it meant . 
The dictionary af forded me little or no help . 
I found it was the act of abolishing but then I did not know what was to be abolished . 
I did not dare to ask any one about its meaning , for I was satisfied that it was something they wanted me to know very little about . 
The light broke in upon me by degrees . 
I went one day down on the wharf of Mr. Waters and seeing two Irishmen unloading a scow of stone , I went , unasked , and helped them . 
When we had finished , one of them came to me and asked me if I were a slave . 
I told him I was . 
He asked , Are ye a slave for life ? I told him that I was . 
The good Irishman seemed to be deeply af fected by the statement . 
He said to the other that it was a pity so fine a little fellow as myself should be a slave for life . 
He said it was a shame to hold me . 
They both advised me to run away to the north that I should find friends there , and that I should be free . 
I pretended not to be interested in what they said , and treated them as if I did not under stand them for I feared they might be treacherous . 
White men have been known to encourage slaves to escape , and then , to get the reward , catch them and return them to their masters . 
I was afraid that these seemingly good men might use me so but I never theless remembered their advice , and from that time I resolved to run away . 
I looked forward to a time at which it would be safe for me to escape . 
I was too young to think of doing so immediately besides , I wished to learn how to write , as I might have oc casion to write my own pass . 
I consoled myself with the hope that I should one day find a good chance . 
Meanwhile , I would learn to write . 
I immediately commenced copying them , and in a short time was able to make the four letters named . 
After that , when I met with any boy who I knew could write , I would tell him I could write as well as he . 
The next word would be , I don't believe you . 
Let me see you try it . 
I would then make the letters which I had been so fortunate as to learn , and ask him to beat that . 
In this way I got a good many lessons in writing , which it is quite possible I should never have gotten in any other way . 
During this time , my copy book was the board fence , brick wall , and pavement my pen and ink was a lump of chalk . 
With these , I learned mainly how to write . 
I then commenced and continued copying the Italics in Webster's Spelling Book , until I could make them all without looking on the book . 
By this time , my little Master Thomas had gone to school , and learned how to write , and had written over a number of copy books . 
These had been brought home , and shown to some of our near neighbors , and then laid aside . 
My mistress used to go to class meeting at the Wilk Street meetinghouse every Monday after noon , and leave me to take care of the house . 
When left thus , I used to spend the time in writing in the spaces left in Master Thomas's copy book , copying what he had written . 
I continued to do this until I could write a hand very similar to that of Master Thomas . 
Thus , after a long , tedious effort for years , I finally succeeded in learning how to write . 
He died while on a visit to see his daughter at Hillsborough . 
Cut off thus unexpectedly , he left no will as to the disposal of his property . 
It was therefore necessary to have a valuation of the property , that it might be equally divided between Mrs. Lucretia and Master Andrew . 
I was immedi ately sent for , to be valued with the other property . 
Here again my feelings rose up in detestation of slavery . 
I had now a new conception of my degraded condition . 
Prior to this , I had become , if not in sensible to my lot , at least partly so . 
I left Baltimore with a young heart overborne with sadness , and a soul full of apprehension . 
I had now been absent from it almost , if not quite , five years . 
I , however , re membered the place very well . 
We were all ranked together at the valuation . 
Men and women , old and young , married and single , were ranked with horses , sheep , and swine . 
Silvery headed age and sprightly youth , maids and matrons , had to undergo the same indelicate inspection . 
At this moment , I saw more clearly than ever the brutalizing effects of slavery upon both slave and slaveholder . 
After the valuation , then came the division . 
I have no language to express the high excitement and deep anxiety which were felt among us poor slaves during this time . 
Our fate for life was now to be decided . 
we had no more voice in that decision than the brutes among whom we were ranked . 
In addition to the pain of separation , there was the horrid dread of falling into the hands of Master Andrew . 
I suffered more anxiety than most of my fellow slaves . 
I had known what it was to be kindly treated they had known nothing of the kind . 
They had seen little or nothing of the world . 
They were in very deed men and women of sorrow , and acquainted with grief . 
Thanks to a kind Providence , I fell to the portion of Mrs. Lucretia , and was sent immediately back to Baltimore , to live again in the family of Master Hugh . 
Their joy at my return equalled their sorrow at my departure . 
It was a glad day to me . 
I had escaped a worse than lion's jaws . 
I was absent from Baltimore , for the purpose of valuation and division , just about one month , and it seemed to have been six . 
Now all the property of my old master , slaves included , was in the hands of strangers , strangers who had had nothing to do with accumulating it . 
Not a slave was left free . 
All remained slaves , from the youngest to the oldest . 
She had served my old master faithfully from youth to old age . 
She had been the source of all his wealth she had peo pled his plantation with slaves she had become a great grandmother in his service . 
The children , the uncon scious children , who once sang and danced in her presence , are gone . 
She gropes her way , in the dark ness of age , for a drink of water . 
Instead of the voices of her children , she hears by day the moans of the dove , and by night the screams of the hideous owl . 
The grave is at the door . 
Will not a righteous God visit for these things ? In about two years after the death of Mrs. Lu cretia , Master Thomas married his second wife . 
Her name was Rowena Hamilton . 
She was the eldest daughter of Mr. William Hamilton . 
Master now lived in St . 
Here I underwent another most painful separation . 
But it was not to them that I was attached . 
It was to those little Baltimore boys that I felt the strongest attachment . 
I had received many good lessons from them , and was still receiving them , and the thought of leaving them was painful indeed . 
I was leaving , too , without the hope of ever being allowed to return . 
Master Thomas had said he would never let me return again . 
The barrier betwixt him self and brother he considered impassable . 
I sailed from Baltimore for St . 
Michael's in the sloop Amanda , Captain Edward Dodson . 
On my passage , I paid particular attention to the direction which the steamboats took to go to Philadelphia . 
I found , instead of going down , on reaching North Point they went up the bay , in a north easterly direc tion . 
I deemed this knowledge of the utmost im portance . 
My determination to run away was again revived . 
I resolved to wait only so long as the offering of a favorable opportunity . 
When that came , I was determined to be off . 
CHAPTER IX I have now reached a period of my life when I can give dates . 
I left Baltimore , and went to live with Master Thomas Auld , at St . 
Michael's , in March , . 
It was now more than seven years since I lived with him in the family of my old mas ter , on Colonel Lloyd's plantation . 
We of course were now almost entire strangers to each other . 
He was to me a new master , and I to him a new slave . 
I was ignorant of his temper and disposition he was equally so of mine . 
A very short time , however , brought us into full acquaintance with each other . 
I was made acquainted with his wife not less than with himself . 
They were well matched , being equally mean and cruel . 
It went hard enough with me then , when I could look back to no period at which I had enjoyed a sufficiency . 
It was tenfold harder after living in Master Hugh's family , where I had always had enough to eat , and of that which was good . 
I have said Master Thomas was a mean man . 
Not to give a slave enough to eat , is regarded as the most aggravated development of meanness even among slaveholders . 
The rule is , no matter how coarse the food , only let there be enough of it . 
This is the theory and in the part of Maryland from which I came , it is the general practice , though there are many exceptions . 
Master Thomas gave us enough of neither coarse nor fine food . 
It was not enough for us to subsist upon . 
We were therefore reduced to the wretched necessity of living at the expense of our neighbors . 
This we did by begging and stealing , whichever came handy in the time of need , the one being considered as legitimate as the other . 
My master was one of this rare sort . 
I do not know of one single noble act ever performed by him . 
The leading trait in his character was mean ness and if there were any other element in his nature , it was made subject to this . 
He was mean and , like most other mean men , he lacked the ability to conceal his meanness . 
Captain Auld was not born a slaveholder . 
He had been a poor man , master only of a Bay craft . 
He came into possession of all his slaves by marriage and of all men , adopted slave holders are the worst . 
He was cruel , but cowardly . 
In the enforce ment of his rules , he was at times rigid , and at times lax . 
He did nothing of himself . 
He might have passed for a lion , but for his ears . 
In all things noble which he attempted , his own meanness shone most conspicuous . 
His airs , words , and actions , were the airs , words , and actions of born slave holders , and , being assumed , were awkward enough . 
He was not even a good imitator . 
He possessed all the disposition to deceive , but wanted the power . 
The luxury of having slaves of his own to wait upon him was something new and unprepared for . 
He was a slaveholder with out the ability to hold slaves . 
He found himself in capable of managing his slaves either by force , fear , or fraud . 
We seldom called him master we gen erally called him Captain Auld , and were hardly disposed to title him at all . 
I doubt not that our conduct had much to do with making him appear awkward , and of consequence fretful . 
Our want of reverence for him must have perplexed him greatly . 
He wished to have us call him master , but lacked the firmness necessary to command us to do so . 
His wife used to insist upon our calling him so , but to no purpose . 
In August , , my master attended a Methodist camp meeting held in the Bay side , Tal bot county , and there experienced religion . 
I was disappointed in both these re spects . 
It neither made him to be humane to his slaves , nor to emancipate them . 
He made the greatest pretensions to piety . 
His house was the house of prayer . 
He prayed morning , noon , and night . 
He very soon distinguished himself among his brethren , and was soon made a class leader and exhorter . 
His activity in revivals was great , and he proved himself an instrument in the hands of the church in converting many souls . 
His house was the preachers' home . 
They used to take great pleasure in coming there to put up for while he starved us , he stuffed them . 
We have had three or four preachers there at a time . 
The names of those who used to come most frequently while I lived there , were Mr. Storks , Mr. Ewery , Mr. Humphry , and Mr. Hickey . 
I have also seen Mr. George Cookman at our house . 
We slaves loved Mr. Cookman . 
We believed him to be a good man . 
When he was at our house , we were sure to be called in to prayers . 
When the others were there , we were sometimes called in and sometimes not . 
Mr. Cookman took more notice of us than either of the other ministers . 
He could not come among us without betraying his sympathy for us , and , stupid as we were , we had the sagacity to see it . 
While I lived with my master in St . 
Thus ended our little Sabbath school in the pious town of St . 
I have said my master found religious sanction for his cruelty . 
As an example , I will state one of many facts going to prove the charge . 
Master would keep this lacerated young woman tied up in this horrid situation four or five hours at a time . 
The secret of master's cruelty toward Henny is found in the fact of her being almost helpless . 
When quite a child , she fell into the fire , and burned herself horribly . 
Her hands were so burnt that she never got the use of them . 
She could do very little but bear heavy burdens . 
She was to master a bill of expense and as he was a mean man , she was a constant offence to him . 
He seemed desirous of getting the poor girl out of existence . 
He gave her away once to his sister but , being a poor gift , she was not disposed to keep her . 
Finally , my benevolent master , to use his own words , set her adrift to take care of herself . 
My master and myself had quite a number of differences . 
He found me unsuitable to his purpose . 
My city life , he said , had had a very pernicious effect upon me . 
It had almost ruined me for every good purpose , and fitted me for every thing which was bad . 
One of my greatest faults was that of letting his horse run away , and go down to his father in law's farm , which was about five miles from St . 
I would then have to go after it . 
My reason for this kind of carelessness , or carefulness , was , that I could always get something to eat when I went there . 
Master William Hamilton , my master's father in law , always gave his slaves enough to eat . 
I never left there hungry , no matter how great the need of my speedy return . 
Master Thomas at length said he would stand it no longer . 
I had lived with him nine months , during which time he had given me a number of severe whippings , all to no good purpose . 
He resolved to put me out , as he said , to be broken and , for this purpose , he let me for one year to a man named Edward Covey . 
Mr. Covey was a poor man , a farm renter . 
He rented the place upon which he lived , as also the hands with which he tilled it . 
Mr. Covey had acquired a very high reputation for breaking young slaves , and this repu tation was of immense value to him . 
It enabled him to get his farm tilled with much less expense to himself than he could have had it done without such a reputation . 
He could hire young help with great ease , in con sequence of this reputation . 
Added to the natural good qualities of Mr. Covey , he was a professor of religion a pious soul a member and a class leader in the Methodist church . 
All of this added weight to his reputation as a nigger breaker . 
I was aware of all the facts , having been made acquainted with them by a young man who had lived there . 
I never theless made the change gladly for I was sure of getting enough to eat , which is not the smallest consideration to a hungry man . 
CHAPTER X I had left Master Thomas's house , and went to live with Mr. Covey , on the st of January , . 
I was now , for the first time in my life , a field hand . 
In my new employment , I found myself even more awkward than a country boy appeared to be in a large city . 
He gave me a team of un broken oxen . 
He told me which was the in hand ox , and which the off hand one . 
I had never driven oxen before , and of course I was very awkward . 
I expected every moment that my brains would be dashed out against the trees . 
After running thus for a considerable dis tance , they finally upset the cart , dashing it with great force against a tree , and threw themselves into a dense thicket . 
How I escaped death , I do not know . 
There I was , entirely alone , in a thick wood , in a place new to me . 
My cart was upset and shat tered , my oxen were entangled among the young trees , and there was none to help me . 
After a long spell of effort , I succeeded in getting my cart righted , my oxen disentangled , and again yoked to the cart . 
I then proceeded on my way home . 
I had now consumed one half of the day . 
I got out of the woods safely , and now felt out of danger . 
Thus twice , in one short day , I escaped death by the merest chance . 
On my return , I told Mr. Covey what had happened , and how it happened . 
He or dered me to return to the woods again immediately . 
I did so , and he followed on after me . 
I made him no answer , but stood with my clothes on . 
I still made him no answer , nor did I move to strip myself . 
This whipping was the first of a number just like it , and for similar of fences . 
I lived with Mr. Covey one year . 
During the first six months , of that year , scarce a week passed with out his whipping me . 
I was seldom free from a sore back . 
My awkwardness was almost always his ex cuse for whipping me . 
We were worked fully up to the point of endurance . 
Long before day we were up , our horses fed , and by the first approach of day we were off to the field with our hoes and plough ing teams . 
Mr. Covey gave us enough to eat , but scarce time to eat it . 
We were often less than five minutes taking our meals . 
Covey would be out with us . 
The way he used to stand it , was this . 
He would spend the most of his afternoons in bed . 
He would then come out fresh in the evening , ready to urge us on with his words , example , and frequently with the whip . 
Mr. Covey was one of the few slaveholders who could and did work with his hands . 
He was a hard working man . 
He knew by himself just what a man or a boy could do . 
There was no deceiving him . 
His work went on in his absence almost as well as in his presence and he had the faculty of making us feel that he was ever present with us . 
This he did by surprising us . 
He seldom approached the spot where we were at work openly , if he could do it secretly . 
He always aimed at taking us by surprise . 
Such was his cunning , that we used to call him , among ourselves , the snake . 
His comings were like a thief in the night . 
He appeared to us as being ever at hand . 
He was under every tree , behind every stump , in every bush , and at every window , on the plantation . 
He would sometimes mount his horse , as if bound to St . 
He would , for this purpose , leave his horse tied up in the woods . 
Mr. Covey's FORTE consisted in his power to de ceive . 
His life was devoted to planning and perpe trating the grossest deceptions . 
Every thing he pos sessed in the shape of learning or religion , he made conform to his disposition to deceive . 
He seemed to think himself equal to deceiving the Almighty . 
The exercises of his family devotions were always commenced with singing and , as he was a very poor singer himself , the duty of raising the hymn generally came upon me . 
He would read his hymn , and nod at me to commence . 
I would at times do so at others , I would not . 
My non com pliance would almost always produce much confu sion . 
To show himself independent of me , he would start and stagger through with his hymn in the most discordant manner . 
In this state of mind , he prayed with more than ordinary spirit . 
This woman was named Caroline . 
Mr. Covey bought her from Mr. Thomas Lowe , about six miles from St . 
She was a large , able bodied woman , about twenty years old . 
She had already given birth to one child , which proved her to be just what he wanted . 
At this result Mr. Covey seemed to be highly pleased , both with the man and the wretched woman . 
Such was his joy , and that of his wife , that nothing they could do for Caroline during her confinement was too good , or too hard , to be done . 
The children were regarded as being quite an addition to his wealth . 
We were worked in all weathers . 
It was never too hot or too cold it could never rain , blow , hail , or snow , too hard for us to work in the field . 
Work , work , work , was scarcely more the order of the day than of the night . 
The longest days were too short for him , and the shortest nights too long for him . 
I was somewhat unmanageable when I first went there , but a few months of this discipline tamed me . 
Mr. Covey succeeded in breaking me . 
I was broken in body , soul , and spirit . 
I spent this in a sort of beast like stupor , between sleep and wake , under some large tree . 
I sank down again , mourning over my wretched condition . 
I was sometimes prompted to take my life , and that of Covey , but was prevented by a combination of hope and fear . 
My sufferings on this plantation seem now like a dream rather than a stern reality . 
Our house stood within a few rods of the Chesa peake Bay , whose broad bosom was ever white with sails from every quarter of the habitable globe . 
The sight of these always affected me powerfully . 
Go on , go on . 
I am left in the hottest hell of unending slavery . 
O God , save me ! God , deliver me ! Let me be free ! Is there any God ? Why am I a slave ? I will run away . 
I will not stand it . 
Get caught , or get clear , I'll try it . 
I had as well die with ague as the fever . 
I have only one life to lose . 
I had as well be killed running as die standing . 
Only think of it one hundred miles straight north , and I am free ! Try it ? Yes ! God helping me , I will . 
It cannot be that I shall live and die a slave . 
I will take to the water . 
This very bay shall yet bear me into freedom . 
The steam boats steered in a north east course from North Point . 
I will do the same and when I get to the head of the bay , I will turn my canoe adrift , and walk straight through Delaware into Pennsylvania . 
When I get there , I shall not be required to have a pass I can travel without being disturbed . 
Let but the first opportunity offer , and , come what will , I am off . 
Meanwhile , I will try to bear up under the yoke . 
I am not the only slave in the world . 
Why should I fret ? I can bear as much as any of them . 
Besides , I am but a boy , and all boys are bound to some one . 
It may be that my misery in slavery will only increase my happiness when I get free . 
There is a better day coming . 
Thus I used to think , and thus I used to speak to myself goaded almost to madness at one mo ment , and at the next reconciling myself to my wretched lot . 
I have already intimated that my condition was much worse , during the first six months of my stay at Mr. Covey's , than in the last six . 
The circum stances leading to the change in Mr. Covey's course toward me form an epoch in my humble history . 
You have seen how a man was made a slave you shall see how a slave was made a man . 
On one of the hottest days of the month of August , , Bill Smith , William Hughes , a slave named Eli , and myself , were engaged in fanning wheat . 
Hughes was clearing the fanned wheat from before the fan . 
Eli was turning , Smith was feeding , and I was carrying wheat to the fan . 
The work was simple , requiring strength rather than intellect yet , to one entirely unused to such work , it came very hard . 
Finding what was coming , I nerved myself up , feeling it would never do to stop work . 
I stood as long as I could stagger to the hopper with grain . 
When I could stand no longer , I fell , and felt as if held down by an immense weight . 
Mr. Covey was at the house , about one hundred yards from the treading yard where we were fanning . 
On hearing the fan stop , he left immediately , and came to the spot where we were . 
He hastily in quired what the matter was . 
Bill answered that I was sick , and there was no one to bring wheat to the fan . 
I had by this time crawled away under the side of the post and rail fence by which the yard was enclosed , hoping to find relief by getting out of the sun . 
He then asked where I was . 
He was told by one of the hands . 
He came to the spot , and , after looking at me awhile , asked me what was the matter . 
I told him as well as I could , for I scarce had strength to speak . 
He then gave me a savage kick in the side , and told me to get up . 
I tried to do so , but fell back in the attempt . 
He gave me another kick , and again told me to rise . 
I again tried , and succeeded in gaining my feet but , stoop ing to get the tub with which I was feeding the fan , I again staggered and fell . 
I made no effort to comply , having now made up my mind to let him do his worst . 
In a short time after re ceiving this blow , my head grew better . 
Mr. Covey had now left me to my fate . 
At this moment I re solved , for the first time , to go to my master , enter a complaint , and ask his protection . 
In order to do this , I must that afternoon walk seven miles and this , under the circumstances , was truly a severe undertaking . 
I was exceedingly feeble made so as much by the kicks and blows which I received , as by the severe fit of sickness to which I had been subjected . 
I , however , watched my chance , while Covey was looking in an opposite direction , and started for St . 
I had not gone far before my little strength again failed me . 
I could go no farther . 
I fell down , and lay for a considerable time . 
The blood was yet oozing from the wound on my head . 
For a time I thought I should bleed to death and think now that I should have done so , but that the blood so matted my hair as to stop the wound . 
I then pre sented an appearance enough to affect any but a heart of iron . 
From the crown of my head to my feet , I was covered with blood . 
My hair was all clotted with dust and blood my shirt was stiff with blood . 
I suppose I looked like a man who had es caped a den of wild beasts , and barely escaped them . 
In this state I appeared before my master , humbly entreating him to interpose his authority for my protection . 
I told him all the circumstances as well as I could , and it seemed , as I spoke , at times to affect him . 
He would then walk the floor , and seek to justify Covey by saying he expected I deserved it . 
He asked me what I wanted . 
After threatening me thus , he gave me a very large dose of salts , telling me that I might remain in St . 
wearied in body and broken in spirit . 
I got no supper that night , or breakfast that morning . 
Before he could reach me , I succeeded in getting to the cornfield and as the corn was very high , it afforded me the means of hiding . 
He seemed very angry , and searched for me a long time . 
My behavior was al together unaccountable . 
He finally gave up the chase , thinking , I suppose , that I must come home for something to eat he would give himself no fur ther trouble in looking for me . 
That night , I fell in with Sandy Jenkins , a slave with whom I was somewhat acquainted . 
Sandy had a free wife who lived about four miles from Mr. Covey's and it being Saturday , he was on his way to see her . 
I told him my circumstances , and he very kindly in vited me to go home with him . 
I went home with him , and talked this whole matter over , and got his advice as to what course it was best for me to pursue . 
I found Sandy an old adviser . 
He said he had carried it for years and since he had done so , he had never received a blow , and never expected to while he carried it . 
To please him , I at length took the root , and , ac cording to his direction , carried it upon my right side . 
I immediately started for home and upon entering the yard gate , out came Mr. Covey on his way to meeting . 
He spoke to me very kindly , bade me drive the pigs from a lot near by , and passed on towards the church . 
All went well till Monday morning . 
On this morning , the virtue of the ROOT was fully tested . 
Long before daylight , I was called to go and rub , curry , and feed , the horses . 
I obeyed , and was glad to obey . 
He held on to me , and I to him . 
My resistance was so entirely unexpected that Covey seemed taken all aback . 
He trembled like a leaf . 
This gave me assurance , and I held him uneasy , causing the blood to run where I touched him with the ends of my fingers . 
Mr. Covey soon called out to Hughes for help . 
Hughes came , and , while Covey held me , attempted to tie my right hand . 
While he was in the act of doing so , I watched my chance , and gave him a heavy kick close under the ribs . 
This kick fairly sickened Hughes , so that he left me in the hands of Mr. Covey . 
This kick had the effect of not only weakening Hughes , but Covey also . 
When he saw Hughes bending over with pain , his courage quailed . 
He asked me if I meant to persist in my resistance . 
I told him I did , come what might that he had used me like a brute for six months , and that I was determined to be used so no longer . 
With that , he strove to drag me to a stick that was lying just out of the stable door . 
He meant to knock me down . 
But just as he was leaning over to get the stick , I seized him with both hands by his collar , and brought him by a sudden snatch to the ground . 
By this time , Bill came . 
Covey called upon him for assistance . 
Bill wanted to know what he could do . 
We were at it for nearly two hours . 
Covey at length let me go , puffing and blowing at a great rate , saying that if I had not resisted , he would not have whipped me half so much . 
The truth was , that he had not whipped me at all . 
I considered him as getting en tirely the worst end of the bargain for he had drawn no blood from me , but I had from him . 
The whole six months afterwards , that I spent with Mr. Covey , he never laid the weight of his finger upon me in anger . 
He would occasionally say , he didn't want to get hold of me again . 
No , thought I , you need not for you will come off worse than you did before . 
This battle with Mr. Covey was the turning point in my career as a slave . 
It rekindled the few expiring embers of freedom , and revived within me a sense of my own manhood . 
It recalled the de parted self confidence , and inspired me again with a determination to be free . 
The gratification af forded by the triumph was a full compensation for whatever else might follow , even death itself . 
He only can understand the deep satisfaction which I experienced , who has himself repelled by force the bloody arm of slavery . 
I felt as I never felt before . 
It was a glorious resurrection , from the tomb of slavery , to the heaven of freedom . 
I did not hesitate to let it be known of me , that the white man who expected to succeed in whipping , must also succeed in killing me . 
From this time I was never again what might be called fairly whipped , though I remained a slave four years afterwards . 
I had several fights , but was never whipped . 
And the only explanation I can now think of does not entirely satisfy me but such as it is , I will give it . 
Mr. Covey enjoyed the most unbounded reputation for being a first rate overseer and negro breaker . 
It was of con siderable importance to him . 
My term of actual service to Mr. Edward Covey ended on Christmas day , . 
This time we regarded as our own , by the grace of our masters and we therefore used or abused it nearly as we pleased . 
Those of us who had families at a distance , were generally allowed to spend the whole six days in their society . 
This time , however , was spent in various ways . 
A slave who would work during the holidays was considered by our masters as scarcely deserving them . 
He was regarded as one who rejected the favor of his master . 
Were the slaveholders at once to abandon this practice , I have not the slightest doubt it would lead to an immediate insurrection among the slaves . 
These holidays serve as conductors , or safety valves , to carry off the rebellious spirit of enslaved humanity . 
The holidays are part and parcel of the gross fraud , wrong , and inhumanity of slavery . 
Their object seems to be , to disgust their slaves with freedom , by plunging them into the lowest depths of dissipa tion . 
For instance , the slaveholders not only like to see the slave drink of his own accord , but will adopt various plans to make him drunk . 
We felt , and very prop erly too , that we had almost as well be slaves to man as to rum . 
I have said that this mode of treatment is a part of the whole system of fraud and inhumanity of slavery . 
The mode here adopted to disgust the slave with freedom , by allowing him to see only the abuse of it , is carried out in other things . 
For instance , a slave loves molasses he steals some . 
The same mode is sometimes adopted to make the slaves refrain from asking for more food than their regular allowance . 
A slave runs through his allowance , and applies for more . 
The practice is a very common one . 
On the first of January , , I left Mr. Covey , and went to live with Mr. William Freeland , who lived about three miles from St . 
I soon found Mr. Freeland a very different man from Mr. Covey . 
Though not rich , he was what would be called an educated southern gentleman . 
Mr. Covey , as I have shown , was a well trained negro breaker and slave driver . 
seemed to possess some regard for honor , some reverence for justice , and some respect for humanity . 
The latter seemed totally insensible to all such sentiments . 
The one was open and frank , and we always knew where to find him . 
The other was a most artful deceiver , and could be understood only by such as were skilful enough to detect his cun ningly devised frauds . 
Another advantage I gained in my new master was , he made no pretensions to , or profession of , religion and this , in my opinion , was truly a great advantage . 
For of all slaveholders with whom I have ever met , religious slaveholders are the worst . 
I have ever found them the meanest and basest , the most cruel and cowardly , of all oth ers . 
It was my unhappy lot not only to belong to a religious slaveholder , but to live in a community of such religionists . 
Very near Mr. Freeland lived the Rev . 
Daniel Weeden , and in the same neighborhood lived the Rev . 
These were members and ministers in the Reformed Methodist Church . 
Mr. Weeden owned , among others , a woman slave , whose name I have forgotten . 
This woman's back , for weeks , was kept literally raw , made so by the lash of this merciless , religious wretch . 
He used to hire hands . 
His maxim was , Behave well or behave ill , it is the duty of a master occasionally to whip a slave , to remind him of his master's authority . 
Such was his theory , and such his practice . 
Mr. Hopkins was even worse than Mr. Weeden . 
His chief boast was his ability to manage slaves . 
The peculiar feature of his government was that of whipping slaves in advance of deserving it . 
He always managed to have one or more of his slaves to whip every Monday morning . 
He did this to alarm their fears , and strike terror into those who escaped . 
His plan was to whip for the smallest offences , to prevent the commission of large ones . 
Mr. Hopkins could always find some excuse for whipping a slave . 
A mere look , word , or motion , a mistake , accident , or want of power , are all matters for which a slave may be whipped at any time . 
Does a slave look dissatisfied ? It is said , he has the devil in him , and it must be whipped out . 
Does he speak loudly when spoken to by his master ? Then he is getting high minded , and should be taken down a button hole lower . 
Does he forget to pull off his hat at the approach of a white person ? Then he is wanting in reverence , and should be whipped for it . 
Mr. Hopkins could always find something of this sort to justify the use of the lash , and he seldom failed to embrace such opportunities . 
There was not a man in the whole county , with whom the slaves who had the getting their own home , would not prefer to live , rather than with this Rev . 
But to return to Mr. Freeland , and to my experi ence while in his employment . 
He , like Mr. Covey , gave us enough to eat but , unlike Mr. Covey , he also gave us sufficient time to take our meals . 
He worked us hard , but always between sunrise and sunset . 
He required a good deal of work to be done , but gave us good tools with which to work . 
His farm was large , but he employed hands enough to work it , and with ease , compared with many of his neighbors . 
My treatment , while in his employ ment , was heavenly , compared with what I experi enced at the hands of Mr. Edward Covey . 
Mr. Freeland was himself the owner of but two slaves . 
Their names were Henry Harris and John Harris . 
The rest of his hands he hired . 
These con sisted of myself , Sandy Jenkins , and Handy Cald well . 
Henry and John were quite intelligent , and in a very little while after I went there , I succeeded in creating in them a strong desire to learn how to read . 
This desire soon sprang up in the others also . 
They very soon mustered up some old spelling books , and nothing would do but that I must keep a Sab bath school . 
I agreed to do so , and accordingly devoted my Sundays to teaching these my loved fel low slaves how to read . 
Neither of them knew his letters when I went there . 
Some of the slaves of the neighboring farms found what was going on , and also availed themselves of this little opportunity to learn to read . 
It was understood , among all who came , that there must be as little display about it as possible . 
It was necessary to keep our religious masters at St . 
He was a clever soul . 
This superstition is very common among the more ignorant slaves . 
A slave seldom dies but that his death is attributed to trickery . 
rather see us engaged in those degrading sports , than to see us behaving like intellectual , moral , and ac countable beings . 
My blood boils as I think of the bloody manner in which Messrs . 
Michael's all calling themselves Christians ! humble followers of the Lord Jesus Christ ! But I am again digressing . 
I had at one time over forty scholars , and those of the right sort , ardently desiring to learn . 
They were of all ages , though mostly men and women . 
I look back to those Sundays with an amount of pleasure not to be ex pressed . 
They were great days to my soul . 
The work of instructing my dear fellow slaves was the sweetest engagement with which I was ever blessed . 
We loved each other , and to leave them at the close of the Sabbath was a severe cross indeed . 
Every moment they spent in that school , they were liable to be taken up , and given thirty nine lashes . 
They came because they wished to learn . 
Their minds had been starved by their cruel masters . 
They had been shut up in mental darkness . 
I taught them , because it was the delight of my soul to be doing something that looked like better ing the condition of my race . 
The year passed off smoothly . 
It seemed only about half as long as the year which preceded it . 
I went through it without receiving a single blow . 
I will give Mr. Freeland the credit of being the best master I ever had , till I became my own mas ter . 
For the ease with which I passed the year , I was , however , somewhat indebted to the society of my fellow slaves . 
They were noble souls they not only possessed loving hearts , but brave ones . 
We were linked and interlinked with each other . 
I loved them with a love stronger than any thing I have experienced since . 
It is sometimes said that we slaves do not love and confide in each other . 
I believe we would have died for each other . 
We never undertook to do any thing , of any importance , without a mutual consultation . 
We were one and as much so by our tempers and dispositions , as by the mutual hardships to which we were necessarily sub jected by our condition as slaves . 
At the close of the year , Mr. Freeland again hired me of my master , for the year . 
I began , with the commencement of the year , to prepare myself for a final struggle , which should decide my fate one way or the other . 
I was fast approaching man hood , and year after year had passed , and I was still a slave . 
These thoughts roused me I must do something . 
I therefore resolved that should not pass without witnessing an attempt , on my part , to secure my liberty . 
But I was not willing to cherish this determination alone . 
My fellow slaves were dear to me . 
I was anxious to have them participate with me in this , my life giving determination . 
I therefore , though with great prudence , commenced early to ascertain their views and feelings in regard to their condition , and to imbue their minds with thoughts of freedom . 
I bent myself to devising ways and means for our escape , and meanwhile strove , on all fitting occasions , to impress them with the gross fraud and inhumanity of slavery . 
I went first to Henry , next to John , then to the others . 
I found , in them all , warm hearts and noble spirits . 
They were ready to hear , and ready to act when a feasible plan should be proposed . 
This was what I wanted . 
I talked to them of our want of manhood , if we submitted to our enslavement without at least one noble effort to be free . 
We met often , and consulted frequently , and told our hopes and fears , recounted the difficulties , real and imagined , which we should be called on to meet . 
Whenever we suggested any plan , there was shrinking the odds were fearful . 
We could see no spot , this side of the ocean , where we could be free . 
We knew nothing about Canada . 
We were hemmed in upon every side . 
Here were the difficulties , real or imagined the good to be sought , and the evil to be shunned . 
This in itself was sometimes enough to stagger us but when we per mitted ourselves to survey the road , we were fre quently appalled . 
Upon either side we saw grim death , assuming the most horrid shapes . 
In coming to a fixed determination to run away , we did more than Patrick Henry , when he resolved upon liberty or death . 
With us it was a doubtful liberty at most , and almost certain death if we failed . 
For my part , I should prefer death to hopeless bond age . 
Sandy , one of our number , gave up the notion , but still encouraged us . 
Our company then consisted of Henry Harris , John Harris , Henry Bailey , Charles Roberts , and myself . 
Henry Bailey was my uncle , and belonged to my master . 
Charles married my aunt he belonged to my master's father in law , Mr. William Hamilton . 
Any one having a white face , and being so disposed , could stop us , and subject us to examination . 
The week before our intended start , I wrote sev eral protections , one for each of us . 
Written with mine own hand , c . 
WILLIAM HAMILTON , Near St . 
Michael's , in Talbot county , Maryland . 
We were not going to Baltimore but , in going up the bay , we went toward Baltimore , and these pro tections were only intended to protect us while on the bay . 
As the time drew near for our departure , our anxiety became more and more intense . 
It was truly a matter of life and death with us . 
The strength of our determination was about to be fully tested . 
This , none of us were prepared to acknowl edge . 
This was in the middle of the week , at the end of which we were to be off . 
We went , as usual , to our several fields of labor , but with bosoms highly agitated with thoughts of our truly hazardous undertaking . 
We tried to conceal our feelings as much as possible and I think we succeeded very well . 
After a painful waiting , the Saturday morning , whose night was to witness our departure , came . 
I hailed it with joy , bring what of sadness it might . 
Friday night was a sleepless one for me . 
I probably felt more anxious than the rest , because I was , by common consent , at the head of the whole affair . 
The responsibility of success or failure lay heavily upon me . 
The glory of the one , and the confusion of the other , were alike mine . 
The first two hours of that morning were such as I never experienced before , and hope never to again . 
Early in the morning , we went , as usual , to the field . 
I was never more certain of any thing . 
The horn was blown as usual , and we went up from the field to the house for breakfast . 
I went for the form , more than for want of any thing to eat that morning . 
Just as I got to the house , in looking out at the lane gate , I saw four white men , with two colored men . 
The white men were on horseback , and the colored ones were walking behind , as if tied . 
I watched them a few moments till they got up to our lane gate . 
Here they halted , and tied the colored men to the gate post . 
I was not yet certain as to what the matter was . 
In a few moments , in rode Mr. Hamilton , with a speed betokening great excite ment . 
He came to the door , and inquired if Master William was in . 
He was told he was at the barn . 
Mr. Hamilton , without dismounting , rode up to the barn with extraordinary speed . 
In a few moments , he and Mr. Freeland returned to the house . 
There was no one in the kitchen but myself and John . 
Henry and Sandy were up at the barn . 
Mr. Freeland put his head in at the door , and called me by name , saying , there were some gentle men at the door who wished to see me . 
I stepped to the door , and inquired what they wanted . 
They at once seized me , and , without giving me any satis faction , tied me lashing my hands closely together . 
I insisted upon knowing what the matter was . 
In a few moments , they succeeded in tying John . 
They then turned to Henry , who had by this time returned , and commanded him to cross his hands . 
I won't ! said Henry , in a firm tone , indicating his readiness to meet the consequences of his refusal . 
Won't you ? said Tom Graham , the constable . 
No , I won't ! said Henry , in a still stronger tone . 
With this , two of the constables pulled out their shining pistols , and swore , by their Creator , that they would make him cross his hands or kill him . 
Shoot me , shoot me ! said Henry you can't kill me but once . 
As he did this , all hands fell upon him , and , after beating him some time , they finally overpowered him , and got him tied . 
During the scuffle , I managed , I know not how , to get my pass out , and , without being discovered , put it into the fire . 
But for you , you long legged mulatto devil ! Henry nor John would never have thought of such a thing . 
I made no reply , and was imme diately hurried off towards St . 
So we were not yet convicted of the intention to run away . 
When we got about half way to St . 
Michael's , while the constables having us in charge were look ing ahead , Henry inquired of me what he should do with his pass . 
I told him to eat it with his biscuit , and own nothing and we passed the word around , Own nothing and Own nothing ! said we all . 
Our confidence in each other was unshaken . 
We were resolved to succeed or fail together , after the calamity had befallen us as much as before . 
We were now prepared for any thing . 
We were to be dragged that morning fifteen miles behind horses , and then to be placed in the Easton jail . 
Michael's , we underwent a sort of exami nation . 
We all denied that we ever intended to run away . 
The fact was , we cared but little where we went , so we went together . 
Our greatest concern was about separation . 
We dreaded that more than any thing this side of death . 
We were sent off to the jail at Easton . 
When we got there , we were delivered up to the sheriff , Mr. Joseph Graham , and by him placed in jail . 
Henry , John , and myself , were placed in one room together Charles , and Henry Bailey , in another . 
Their object in separating us was to hinder concert . 
Such a set of beings I never saw before ! I felt myself surrounded by so many fiends from perdition . 
A band of pirates never looked more like their father , the devil . 
They would impudently ask us if we would not like to have them for our masters . 
We would make them no answer , and leave them to find out as best they could . 
Then they would curse and swear at us , telling us that they could take the devil out of us in a very little while , if we were only in their hands . 
While in jail , we found ourselves in much more comfortable quarters than we expected when we went there . 
Upon the whole , we got along very well , so far as the jail and its keeper were concerned . 
I regarded this separation as a final one . 
It caused me more pain than any thing else in the whole transaction . 
I was ready for any thing rather than separation . 
It is due to the noble Henry to say , he seemed almost as reluctant at leaving the prison as at leaving home to come to the prison . 
But we knew we should , in all probability , be separated , if we were sold and since he was in their hands , he concluded to go peaceably home . 
I was now left to my fate . 
I was all alone , and within the walls of a stone prison . 
But a few days before , and I was full of hope . 
I expected to have been safe in a land of freedom but now I was cov ered with gloom , sunk down to the utmost despair . 
I thought the possibility of freedom was gone . 
Thus , after an absence of three years and one month , I was once more permitted to return to my old home at Baltimore . 
My master sent me away , because there existed against me a very great preju dice in the community , and he feared I might be killed . 
In a few weeks after I went to Baltimore , Master Hugh hired me to Mr. William Gardner , an ex tensive ship builder , on Fell's Point . 
I was put there to learn how to calk . 
It , however , proved a very unfavorable place for the accomplishment of this object . 
Mr. Gardner was engaged that spring in building two large man of war brigs , professedly for the Mexican government . 
There was no time to learn any thing . 
Every man had to do that which he knew how to do . 
In entering the ship yard , my orders from Mr. Gardner were , to do what ever the carpenters commanded me to do . 
This was placing me at the beck and call of about seventy five men . 
I was to regard all these as masters . 
Their word was to be my law . 
My situation was a most trying one . 
At times I needed a dozen pair of hands . 
I was called a dozen ways in the space of a single minute . 
Three or four voices would strike my ear at the same moment . 
, come help me to cant this timber here . 
, come carry this timber yonder . 
, bring that roller here . 
, go get a fresh can of water . 
, come help saw off the end of this timber . 
, go quick , and get the crowbar . 
, hold on the end of this fall . 
, go to the blacksmith's shop , and get a new punch . 
! run and bring me a cold chisel . 
, bear a hand , and get up a fire as quick as lightning under that steam box . 
Halloo , nigger ! come , turn this grindstone . 
Come , come ! move , move ! and BOWSE this timber forward . 
All hands seemed to be very well satisfied . 
Many of the black carpenters were freemen . 
Things seemed to be going on very well . 
All at once , the white carpenters knocked off , and said they would not work with free colored workmen . 
They therefore felt called upon at once to put a stop to it . 
And , taking advantage of Mr. Gardner's necessities , they broke off , swearing they would work no longer , unless he would discharge his black carpenters . 
Now , though this did not extend to me in form , it did reach me in fact . 
My fellow apprentices very soon began to feel it degrading to them to work with me . 
They , however , at length combined , and came upon me , armed with sticks , stones , and heavy handspikes . 
One came in front with a half brick . 
There was one at each side of me , and one behind me . 
While I was attending to those in front , and on either side , the one behind ran up with the hand spike , and struck me a heavy blow upon the head . 
I fell , and with this they all ran upon me , and fell to beating me with their fists . 
I let them lay on for a while , gathering strength . 
In an instant , I gave a sudden surge , and rose to my hands and knees . 
Just as I did that , one of their number gave me , with his heavy boot , a powerful kick in the left eye . 
My eyeball seemed to have burst . 
When they saw my eye closed , and badly swollen , they left me . 
With this I seized the hand spike , and for a time pursued them . 
But here the carpenters interfered , and I thought I might as well give it up . 
It was impossible to stand my hand against so many . 
I found my only chance for life was in flight . 
He listened attentively to my narration of the circumstances leading to the savage outrage , and gave many proofs of his strong indigna tion at it . 
The heart of my once overkind mistress was again melted into pity . 
My puffed out eye and blood covered face moved her to tears . 
It was almost compensation for my suffering to witness , once more , a manifestation of kindness from this , my once affectionate old mistress . 
Master Hugh was very much enraged . 
He gave expression to his feelings by pouring out curses upon the heads of those who did the deed . 
Mr. Watson inquired who saw the assault committed . 
Master Hugh told him it was done in Mr. Gardner's ship yard at midday , where there were a large company of men at work . 
As to that , he said , the deed was done , and there was no question as to who did it . 
His answer was , he could do nothing in the case , unless some white man would come forward and testify . 
He could issue no warrant on my word . 
If I had been killed in the presence of a thousand colored people , their testimony combined would have been insufficient to have arrested one of the murderers . 
Master Hugh , for once , was compelled to say this state of things was too bad . 
Of course , it was impossible to get any white man to volunteer his testimony in my behalf , and against the white young men . 
Even those who may have sympathized with me were not prepared to do this . 
Such was , and such remains , the state of things in the Christian city of Baltimore . 
Master Hugh , finding he could get no redress , re fused to let me go back again to Mr. Gardner . 
He kept me himself , and his wife dressed my wound till I was again restored to health . 
He then took me into the ship yard of which he was foreman , in the employment of Mr. Walter Price . 
There I was im mediately set to calking , and very soon learned the art of using my mallet and irons . 
In the course of one year from the time I left Mr. Gardner's , I was able to command the highest wages given to the most experienced calkers . 
I was now of some impor tance to my master . 
I was bringing him from six to seven dollars per week . 
I sometimes brought him nine dollars per week my wages were a dollar and a half a day . 
After learning how to calk , I sought my own employment , made my own contracts , and collected the money which I earned . 
My pathway became much more smooth than before my condi tion was now much more comfortable . 
When I could get no calking to do , I did nothing . 
During these leisure times , those old notions about freedom would steal over me again . 
I have found that , to make a contented slave , it is necessary to make a thoughtless one . 
It is necessary to darken his moral and mental vision , and , as far as possible , to annihilate the power of reason . 
I was now getting , as I have said , one dollar and fifty cents per day . 
The right of the grim visaged pirate upon the high seas is exactly the same . 
CHAPTER XI I now come to that part of my life during which I planned , and finally succeeded in making , my escape from slavery . 
But before narrating any of the pe culiar circumstances , I deem it proper to make known my intention not to state all the facts con nected with the transaction . 
I deeply regret the necessity that impels me to suppress any thing of importance connected with my experience in slavery . 
But I must deprive myself of this pleasure , and the curious of the gratification which such a statement would afford . 
They do nothing towards enlightening the slave , whilst they do much towards enlightening the master . 
They stimulate him to greater watchfulness , and enhance his power to capture his slave . 
I would keep the merciless slaveholder profoundly ignorant of the means of flight adopted by the slave . 
I would leave him to imagine himself surrounded by myriads of invisible tormentors , ever ready to snatch from his infernal grasp his trembling prey . 
Let us render the tyrant no aid let us not hold the light by which he can trace the footprints of our flying brother . 
In the early part of the year , I became quite restless . 
I could see no reason why I should , at the end of each week , pour the reward of my toil into the purse of my master . 
He would , however , when I made him six dollars , sometimes give me six cents , to encourage me . 
It had the opposite effect . 
I re garded it as a sort of admission of my right to the whole . 
The fact that he gave me any part of my wages was proof , to my mind , that he believed me entitled to the whole of them . 
My discontent grew upon me . 
In the spring of , when Master Thomas came to Baltimore to purchase his spring goods , I got an opportunity , and applied to him to allow me to hire my time . 
He unhesitatingly refused my request , and told me this was another stratagem by which to escape . 
He exhorted me to content myself , and be obedient . 
He told me , if I would be happy , I must lay out no plans for the future . 
He said , if I behaved myself properly , he would take care of me . 
Indeed , he advised me to complete thoughtlessness of the future , and taught me to de pend solely upon him for happiness . 
He seemed to see fully the pressing necessity of setting aside my intellectual nature , in order to contentment in slavery . 
But in spite of him , and even in spite of myself , I continued to think , and to think about the injustice of my enslavement , and the means of escape . 
About two months after this , I applied to Master Hugh for the privilege of hiring my time . 
He was not acquainted with the fact that I had applied to Master Thomas , and had been refused . 
My board was two dol lars and a half per week . 
This , with the wear and tear of clothing and calking tools , made my regular expenses about six dollars per week . 
This amount I was compelled to make up , or relinquish the privilege of hiring my time . 
Rain or shine , work or no work , at the end of each week the money must be forthcoming , or I must give up my privilege . 
This arrangement , it will be perceived , was decidedly in my master's favor . 
It relieved him of all need of looking after me . 
He received all the benefits of slaveholding without its evils while I endured all the evils of a slave , and suffered all the care and anxiety of a freeman . 
I found it a hard bargain . 
But , hard as it was , I thought it better than the old mode of getting along . 
It was a step towards freedom to be allowed to bear the respon sibilities of a freeman , and I was determined to hold on upon it . 
I bent myself to the work of making money . 
I went on thus from May till August . 
Master Hugh then refused to allow me to hire my time longer . 
The ground for his refusal was a failure on my part , one Saturday night , to pay him for my week's time . 
This failure was occasioned by my attending a camp meeting about ten miles from Baltimore . 
I knew that Master Hugh was in no special need of the money that night . 
I therefore decided to go to camp meet ing , and upon my return pay him the three dollars . 
I staid at the camp meeting one day longer than I intended when I left . 
But as soon as I returned , I called upon him to pay him what he considered his due . 
I found him very angry he could scarce restrain his wrath . 
He said he had a great mind to give me a severe whipping . 
He wished to know how I dared go out of the city without asking his permission . 
Upon the same plea , he told me to bring my tools and clothing home forthwith . 
I did this in retaliation . 
Saturday night , he called upon me as usual for my week's wages . 
I told him I had no wages I had done no work that week . 
Here we were upon the point of coming to blows . 
He raved , and swore his determination to get hold of me . 
I did not allow myself a single word but was resolved , if he laid the weight of his hand upon me , it should be blow for blow . 
He did not strike me , but told me that he would find me in constant employment in future . 
I now had three weeks during which to prepare for my journey . 
At the end of the week , I brought him between eight and nine dollars . 
He seemed very well pleased , and asked why I did not do the same the week before . 
He little knew what my plans were . 
My object in working steadily was to remove any suspicion he might entertain of my intent to run away and in this I succeeded admi rably . 
I suppose he thought I was never better satisfied with my condition than at the very time during which I was planning my escape . 
and bade me to make a good use of it . 
I told him I would . 
Things went on without very smoothly indeed , but within there was trouble . 
It is impossible for me to describe my feelings as the time of my con templated start drew near . 
It is my opinion that thousands would escape from slavery , who now remain , but for the strong cords of affection that bind them to their friends . 
The thought of leaving my friends was de cidedly the most painful thought with which I had to contend . 
The love of them was my tender point , and shook my decision more than all things else . 
Besides the pain of separation , the dread and appre hension of a failure exceeded what I had experienced at my first attempt . 
The appalling defeat I then sustained returned to torment me . 
I felt assured that , if I failed in this attempt , my case would be a hopeless one it would seal my fate as a slave for ever . 
I could not hope to get off with any thing less than the severest punishment , and being placed beyond the means of escape . 
It required no very vivid imagination to depict the most frightful scenes through which I should have to pass , in case I failed . 
The wretchedness of slavery , and the blessedness of freedom , were perpetually before me . 
It was life and death with me . 
How I did so , what means I adopted , what direction I travelled , and by what mode of conveyance , I must leave unexplained , for the reasons before mentioned . 
I have been frequently asked how I felt when I found myself in a free State . 
I have never been able to answer the question with any satisfaction to my self . 
It was a moment of the highest excitement I ever experienced . 
I suppose I felt as one may imagine the unarmed mariner to feel when he is rescued by a friendly man of war from the pursuit of a pirate . 
In writing to a dear friend , immediately after my arrival at New York , I said I felt like one who had escaped a den of hungry lions . 
This state of mind , however , very soon subsided and I was again seized with a feeling of great insecurity and loneliness . 
I was yet liable to be taken back , and subjected to all the tortures of slavery . 
This in itself was enough to damp the ardor of my enthusiasm . 
But the lone liness overcame me . 
It was a most painful situation and , to understand it , one must needs experience it , or imagine himself in similar circumstances . 
Thank Heaven , I remained but a short time in this distressed situation . 
I was relieved from it by the humane hand of Mr. DAVID RUGGLES , whose vigi lance , kindness , and perseverance , I shall never for get . 
I am glad of an opportunity to express , as far as words can , the love and gratitude I bear him . 
Mr. Ruggles is now afflicted with blindness , and is him self in need of the same kind offices which he was once so forward in the performance of toward others . 
Very soon after I went to Mr. Ruggles , he wished to know of me where I wanted to go as he deemed it unsafe for me to remain in New York . 
I told him I was a calker , and should like to go where I could get work . 
informing her of my successful flight , and wishing her to come on forthwith . 
In a few days after her arrival , Mr. Rug gles called in the Rev . 
JAMES W. C. PENNINGTON NEW YORK , SEPT . 
I had changed my name from Frederick BAILEY to that of JOHNSON . 
We were encouraged to do this by two excellent gentlemen , residents of New Bedford , whose names I afterward ascertained to be Joseph Ricketson and William C. Taber . 
They seemed at once to understand our circumstances , and gave us such assurance of their friendliness as put us fully at ease in their presence . 
It was good indeed to meet with such friends , at such a time . 
Upon reaching New Bedford , we were directed to the house of Mr. Nathan Johnson , by whom we were kindly received , and hospitably provided for . 
Both Mr. and Mrs. Johnson took a deep and lively interest in our wel fare . 
They proved themselves quite worthy of the name of abolitionists . 
When the stage driver found us unable to pay our fare , he held on upon our bag gage as security for the debt . 
I had but to mention the fact to Mr. Johnson , and he forthwith advanced the money . 
We now began to feel a degree of safety , and to prepare ourselves for the duties and responsibilities of a life of freedom . 
On the morning after our ar rival at New Bedford , while at the breakfast table , the question arose as to what name I should be called by . 
The name given me by my mother was , Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey . 
I , how ever , had dispensed with the two middle names long before I left Maryland so that I was generally known by the name of Frederick Bailey . 
I started from Baltimore bearing the name of Stanley . 
When I got to New York , I again changed my name to Fred erick Johnson , and thought that would be the last change . 
But when I got to New Bedford , I found it necessary again to change my name . 
The reason of this necessity was , that there were so many Johnsons in New Bedford , it was already quite difficult to distinguish between them . 
I gave Mr. Johnson the privilege of choosing me a name , but told him he must not take from me the name of Frederick . 
I must hold on to that , to preserve a sense of my identity . 
Mr. Johnson had just been reading the Lady of the Lake , and at once suggested that my name be Douglass . 
I was quite disappointed at the general appear ance of things in New Bedford . 
The impression which I had received respecting the character and condition of the people of the north , I found to be singularly erroneous . 
I probably came to this conclusion from the fact that northern people owned no slaves . 
I supposed that they were about upon a level with the non slaveholding population of the south . 
I knew they were exceedingly poor , and I had been accustomed to regard their poverty as the nec essary consequence of their being non slaveholders . 
I had somehow imbibed the opinion that , in the absence of slaves , there could be no wealth , and very little refinement . 
Such being my conjectures , any one acquainted with the appearance of New Bedford may very readily infer how palpably I must have seen my mistake . 
In the afternoon of the day when I reached New Bedford , I visited the wharves , to take a view of the shipping . 
Here I found myself surrounded with the strongest proofs of wealth . 
Lying at the wharves , and riding in the stream , I saw many ships of the finest model , in the best order , and of the largest size . 
Upon the right and left , I was walled in by granite warehouses of the widest dimensions , stowed to their utmost capacity with the necessaries and comforts of life . 
Added to this , almost every body seemed to be at work , but noiselessly so , compared with what I had been accustomed to in Baltimore . 
There were no loud songs heard from those engaged in loading and unloading ships . 
I heard no deep oaths or horrid curses on the laborer . 
I saw no whipping of men but all seemed to go smoothly on . 
To me this looked exceedingly strange . 
Every thing looked clean , new , and beautiful . 
Michael's , and Balti more . 
The people looked more able , stronger , health ier , and happier , than those of Maryland . 
I was for once made glad by a view of extreme wealth , without being saddened by seeing extreme poverty . 
Yet Mr. Johnson was a work ing man . 
His hands were hardened by toil , and not his alone , but those also of Mrs. Johnson . 
I found the colored people much more spirited than I had sup posed they would be . 
I found among them a deter mination to protect each other from the blood thirsty kidnapper , at all hazards . 
Soon after my arrival , I was told of a circumstance which illustrated their spirit . 
A colored man and a fugitive slave were on unfriendly terms . 
The former was heard to threaten the latter with informing his master of his where abouts . 
Straightway a meeting was called among the colored people , under the stereotyped notice , Busi ness of importance ! The betrayer was invited to at tend . 
I believe there have been no more such threats , and should there be here after , I doubt not that death would be the conse quence . 
I found employment , the third day after my ar rival , in stowing a sloop with a load of oil . 
It was new , dirty , and hard work for me but I went at it with a glad heart and a willing hand . 
I was now my own master . 
It was a happy moment , the rapture of which can be understood only by those who have been slaves . 
It was the first work , the reward of which was to be entirely my own . 
There was no Mas ter Hugh standing ready , the moment I earned the money , to rob me of it . 
I worked that day with a pleasure I had never before experienced . 
I was at work for myself and newly married wife . 
It was to me the starting point of a new existence . 
Finding my trade of no immediate benefit , I threw off my calking habiliments , and pre pared myself to do any kind of work I could get to do . 
Mr. Johnson kindly let me have his wood horse and saw , and I very soon found myself a plenty of work . 
There was no work too hard none too dirty . 
did for nearly three years in New Bedford , before I became known to the anti slavery world . 
In about four months after I went to New Bed ford , there came a young man to me , and inquired if I did not wish to take the Liberator . 
I told him I did but , just having made my escape from slavery , I remarked that I was unable to pay for it then . 
I , however , finally became a subscriber to it . 
The paper came , and I read it from week to week with such feelings as it would be quite idle for me to attempt to describe . 
The paper became my meat and my drink . 
My soul was set all on fire . 
I took right hold of the cause . 
I could do but little but what I could , I did with a joyful heart , and never felt happier than when in an anti slavery meeting . 
I sel dom had much to say at the meetings , because what I wanted to say was said so much better by others . 
It was a severe cross , and I took it up reluctantly . 
The truth was , I felt myself a slave , and the idea of speaking to white people weighed me down . 
I spoke but a few moments , when I felt a degree of freedom , and said what I desired with considerable ease . 
To re move the liability of such misapprehension , I deem it proper to append the following brief explanation . 
To be the friend of the one , is of necessity to be the enemy of the other . 
Indeed , I can see no reason , but the most deceitful one , for calling the religion of this land Christianity . 
I look upon it as the climax of all misnomers , the boldest of all frauds , and the grossest of all libels . 
Never was there a clearer case of stealing the livery of the court of heaven to serve the devil in . 
I am filled with unutterable loathing when I contem plate the religious pomp and show , together with the horrible inconsistencies , which every where surround me . 
We have men stealers for ministers , women whippers for missionaries , and cradle plunderers for church members . 
The man who wields the blood clotted cowskin during the week fills the pulpit on Sunday , and claims to be a minister of the meek and lowly Jesus . 
He who sells my sister , for purposes of prostitution , stands forth as the pi ous advocate of purity . 
He who proclaims it a re ligious duty to read the Bible denies me the right of learning to read the name of the God who made me . 
He who is the religious advocate of marriage robs whole millions of its sacred influence , and leaves them to the ravages of wholesale pollution . 
We see the thief preaching against theft , and the adulterer against adultery . 
Revivals of religion and revivals in the slave trade go hand in hand together . 
The slave prison and the church stand near each other . 
The clanking of fetters and the rattling of chains in the prison , and the pious psalm and solemn prayer in the church , may be heard at the same time . 
The dealers in the bodies and souls of men erect their stand in the presence of the pulpit , and they mutually help each other . 
The dealer gives his blood stained gold to support the pulpit , and the pulpit , in return , covers his in fernal business with the garb of Christianity . 
Here we have religion and robbery the allies of each other devils dressed in angels' robes , and hell presenting the semblance of paradise . 
All their works they do for to be seen of men . 
They love the upper most rooms at feasts , and the chief seats in the syna gogues , . 
and to be called of men , Rabbi , Rabbi . 
Ye devour widows' houses , and for a pretence make long prayers therefore ye shall receive the greater dam nation . 
Ye compass sea and land to make one prose lyte , and when he is made , ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves . 
Ye blind guides ! which strain at a gnat , and swallow a camel . 
Woe unto you , scribes and Pharisees , hypocrites ! for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter but within , they are full of extortion and excess . 
Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men , but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity . 
Dark and terrible as is this picture , I hold it to be strictly true of the overwhelming mass of professed Christians in America . 
They strain at a gnat , and swallow a camel . 
They attend with Phari saical strictness to the outward forms of religion , and at the same time neglect the weightier matters of the law , judgment , mercy , and faith . 
They are al ways ready to sacrifice , but seldom to show mercy . 
They are they who are represented as professing to love God whom they have not seen , whilst they hate their brother whom they have seen . 
They love the heathen on the other side of the globe . 
It is against religion , as presented by these bodies , that I have felt it my duty to testify . 
which I soberly affirm is true to the life , and without caricature or the slightest exaggeration . 
Shall I not visit for these things ? saith the Lord . 
Another preacher whining spoke Of One whose heart for sinners broke He tied old Nanny to an oak , And drew the blood at every stroke , And prayed for heavenly union . 
Two others oped their iron jaws , And waved their children stealing paws There sat their children in gewgaws By stinting negroes' backs and maws , They kept up heavenly union . 
