This book is considered by many scholars to be part of the Pseudepigrapha . 
The Pseudepigrapha is a collection of historical biblical works that are considered to be fiction . 
Because of that stigma , this book was not included in the compilation of the Holy Bible . 
This book is a written history of what happened in the days of Adam and Eve after they were cast out of the garden . 
Although considered to be pseudepigraphic by some , it carries significant meaning and insight into events of that time . 
It is doubtful that these writings could have survived all the many centuries if there were no substance to them . 
This particular version is the work of unknown Egyptians . 
Parts of this version are found in the Jewish Talmud , and the Islamic Koran , showing what a vital role it played in the original literature of human wisdom . 
The Egyptian author wrote in Arabic , but later translations were found written in Ethiopic . 
The present English translation was translated in the late 's by Dr . 
S. C. Malan and Dr . 
They translated into King James English from both the Arabic version and the Ethiopic version which was then published in The Forgotten Books of Eden in by The World Publishing Company . 
In , the text was extracted from a copy of The Forgotten Books of Eden and converted to electronic form by Dennis Hawkins . 
It was then translated into more modern English by simply exchanging 'Thou' s for 'You's , 'Art's for 'Are's , and so forth . 
The text was then carefully re read to ensure its integrity . 
Chapter I The crystal sea , God commands Adam , expelled from Eden , to live in the Cave of Treasures . 
And when a man washes himself in it , he becomes clean of the cleanness thereof , and white of its whiteness even if he were dark . 
But when God made Adam go out of the garden , He did not place him on the border of it northward . 
Wherefore God did not put Adam there . 
And God commanded him to live there in a cave in a rock the Cave of Treasures below the garden . 
Chapter II Adam and Eve faint when they leave the Garden . 
God sends His Word to encourage them . 
But when our father Adam , and Eve , went out of the garden , they walked the ground on their feet , not knowing they were walking . 
And because , when they were in the garden they were filled with the grace of a bright nature , and they had not hearts turned toward earthly things . 
Chapter III Concerning the promise of the great five and a half days . 
Yes , the Word that will again save you when the five and a half days are fulfilled . 
But when Adam heard these words from God , and of the great five and a half days , he did not understand the meaning of them . 
For Adam was thinking there would be only five and a half days for him until the end of the world . 
And Adam cried , and prayed to God to explain it to him . 
And as Adam went to it he feared , trembled and fell down but God in His mercy lifted him up , and then made this covenant with him . 
So they fell on their faces , trembled with fear . 
But when Your servants , Adam and Eve , saw me , they fell on their faces , and were as dead . 
O my Lord , what shall we do to Your servants ? Then God had pity on them , and showed them mercy , and sent His Angel to keep the garden . 
And the Word of the Lord came to Adam and Eve , and raised them up . 
And the Lord said to Adam , I told you that at the end of the five and a half days , I will send my Word and save you . 
Strengthen your heart , therefore , and stay in the Cave of Treasures , of which I have before spoken to you . 
And when Adam heard this Word from God , he was comforted with that which God had told him . 
For He had told him how He would save him . 
Chapter IV Adam mourns over the changed conditions . 
Adam and Eve enter the Cave of Treasures . 
But Adam and Eve cried for having come out of the garden , their first home . 
And indeed , when Adam looked at his flesh , that was altered , he cried bitterly , he and Eve , over what they had done . 
And they walked and went gently down into the Cave of Treasures . 
But now we do not see as we did our eyes have become of flesh they cannot see like they used to see before . 
But he bowed to God's orders and said to himself , Unless I enter the cave , I shall again be a transgressor . 
Chapter V Eve makes a noble and emotional intercession , taking the blame on herself . 
Then Adam and Eve entered the cave , and stood praying , in their own tongue , unknown to us , but which they knew well . 
And as they prayed , Adam raised his eyes and saw the rock and the roof of the cave that covered him overhead . 
This prevented him from seeing either heaven or God's creatures . 
So he cried and beat his chest hard , until he dropped , and was as dead . 
And Eve sat crying for she believed he was dead . 
For I alone caused Your servant to fall from the garden into this condemned land from light into this darkness and from the house of joy into this prison . 
Don't take away his soul right now but let him live that he may stand after the measure of his repentance , and do Your will , as before his death . 
O Lord , I and he are one , and You , O God , are our Creator , You are He who made us both in one day . 
Therefore , O God , give him life , that he may be with me in this strange land , while we live in it on account of our transgression . 
But if You will not give him life , then take me , even me , like him that we both may die the same day . 
And Eve cried bitterly , and fell on our father Adam from her great sorrow . 
Chapter VI God's reprimand to Adam and Eve in which he points out how and why they sinned . 
But God looked at them for they had killed themselves through great grief . 
But He decided to raise them and comfort them . 
He , therefore , sent His Word to them that they should stand and be raised immediately . 
And the Lord said to Adam and Eve , You transgressed of your own free will , until you came out of the garden in which I had placed you . 
Thus have you transgressed My commandment , and therefore I have brought on you all these sorrows . 
For I am God the Creator , who , when I created My creatures , did not intend to destroy them . 
But after they had sorely roused My anger , I punished them with grievous plagues , until they repent . 
But , if on the contrary , they still continue hardened in their transgression , they shall be under a curse forever . 
Chapter VII The beasts are appeased . 
Your grace was then on me and I named every one according to Your mind and you made them all subject to me . 
Then all the beasts paid homage to Adam , according to the commandment of God except the serpent , against which God was angry . 
It did not come to Adam , with the beasts . 
Chapter VIII The Bright Nature of man is taken away . 
When Adam and Eve had heard these words from God , they went their way praising and worshipping Him with a sorrowful heart . 
And God ceased to commune with them . 
Chapter IX Water from the Tree of Life . 
Adam and Eve near drowning . 
Chapter X Their bodies need water after they leave the garden . 
Then the angel went up to God , was welcome , and said , O God , Your creatures have breathed their last . 
Then God sent His Word to Adam and Eve , who raised them from their death . 
Then God said to Adam , While you were under My command and were a bright angel , you knew not this water . 
But God said to Adam , I have made you a promise when that promise is fulfilled , I will bring you back into the garden , you and your righteous descendants . 
And God ceased to commune with Adam . 
Chapter XI A recollection of the glorious days in the Garden . 
Then Adam and Eve felt themselves burning with thirst , and heat , and sorrow . 
And Adam said to Eve , We shall not drink of this water , even if we were to die . 
O Eve , when this water comes into our inner parts , it will increase our punishments and that of our descendants . 
Both Adam and Eve then went away from the water , and drank none of it at all but came and entered the Cave of Treasures . 
But when in it Adam could not see Eve he only heard the noise she made . 
Neither could she see Adam , but heard the noise he made . 
O Eve ! Remember the trees that overshadowed us in the garden while we moved among them . 
O Eve ! Remember that while we were in the garden , we knew neither night nor day . 
Chapter XII How darkness came between Adam and Eve . 
Then Adam beat his chest , he and Eve , and they mourned the whole night until the crack of dawn , and they sighed over the length of the night in Miyazia . 
And Adam beat himself , and threw himself on the ground in the cave , from bitter grief , and because of the darkness , and lay there as dead . 
But Eve heard the noise he made in falling on the ground . 
And she felt about for him with her hands , and found him like a corpse . 
Then she was afraid , speechless , and remained by him . 
But the merciful Lord looked on the death of Adam , and on Eve's silence from fear of the darkness . 
And the Word of God came to Adam and raised him from his death , and opened Eve's mouth that she might speak . 
For so long as we were in the garden , we neither saw nor even knew what darkness is . 
I was not hidden from Eve , neither was she hidden from me , until now that she cannot see me and no darkness came over us to separate us from each other . 
But she and I were both in one bright light . 
I saw her and she saw me . 
O Lord , will You then plague us with this darkness ? Chapter XIII The fall of Adam . 
Why night and day were created . 
But when he transgressed My commandment , I deprived him of that bright nature , and he became dark . 
And when he was in the heavens , in the realms of light , he knew nothing of darkness . 
But he transgressed , and I made him fall from the heaven onto the earth and it was this darkness that came over him . 
And on you , O Adam , while in My garden and obedient to Me , did that bright light rest also . 
But when I heard of your transgression , I deprived you of that bright light . 
Thus , O Adam , has this night deceived you . 
It is not to last forever but is only of twelve hours when it is over , daylight will return . 
Strengthen your heart , and be not afraid . 
This darkness is not a punishment . 
But , O Adam , I have made the day , and have placed the sun in it to give light in order that you and your children should do your work . 
For I knew you would sin and transgress , and come out into this land . 
For I made you of the light and I willed to bring out children of light from you and like to you . 
But you did not keep My commandment one day until I had finished the creation and blessed everything in it . 
Then , concerning the tree , I commanded you not to eat of it . 
Yet I knew that Satan , who deceived himself , would also deceive you . 
So I made known to you by means of the tree , not to come near him . 
And I told you not to eat of the fruit thereof , nor to taste of it , nor yet to sit under it , nor to yield to it . 
But I commanded you , and warned you , and you fell . 
So that My creatures cannot blame Me but the blame rests on them alone . 
And , O Adam , I have made the day so that you and your descendants can work and toil in it . 
And I have made the night for them to rest in it from their work and for the beasts of the field to go forth by night and look for their food . 
But little of darkness now remains , O Adam , and daylight will soon appear . 
Chapter XIV The earliest prophesy of the coming of Christ . 
Then Adam said to God O Lord , take You my soul , and let me not see this gloom any more or remove me to some place where there is no darkness . 
I will bring you to it in the kingdom of heaven . 
And God ceased to commune with Adam . 
Reference John Chapter XV Adam and Eve grieve over the suffering of God to save them from their sins . 
Chapter XVI The first sunrise . 
Adam and Eve think it is a fire coming to burn them . 
After this , Adam and Eve continued to stand in the cave , praying and crying , until the morning dawned on them . 
And when they saw the light returned to them , they retrained from fear , and strengthened their hearts . 
Then Adam began to come out of the cave . 
For he thought the sun was God . 
Therefore he was afraid of the sun when flaming rays of it reached him . 
He thought God meant to plague him therewith all the days He had decreed for him . 
For Adam also said in his thoughts , as God did not plague us with darkness , behold , He has caused this sun to rise and to plague us with burning heat . 
But while he was thinking like this in his heart , the Word of God came to him and said O Adam , get up on your feet . 
But I am God who comforted you in the night . 
And God ceased to commune with Adam . 
Chapter XVII The Chapter of the Serpent . 
The Adam and Eve came out at the mouth of the cave , and went towards the garden . 
And whereas it was the fairest of all beasts , it had been changed , and was become the ugliest of them all . 
Instead of feeding on the best food , now it turned to eat the dust . 
Instead of living , as before , in the best places , now it lived in the dust . 
And , whereas it had been the most beautiful of all beasts , all of which stood dumb at its beauty , it was now abhorred of them . 
Chapter XVIII The mortal combat with the serpent . 
When the accursed serpent saw Adam and Eve , it swelled its head , stood on its tail , and with eyes blood red , acted like it would kill them . 
Then with its great strength , it threw down Adam and Eve and squeezed them , and tried to kill them . 
But God sent an angel who threw the serpent away from them , and raised them up . 
Then the serpent was struck mute , and was no longer able to speak . 
And a wind blew down from heaven by the command of God and carried away the serpent from Adam and Eve , and threw it on the seashore where it landed in India . 
Chapter XIX Beasts made subject to Adam . 
But Adam and Eve cried before God . 
Then Adam , because of what had happened to him , beat his chest and fell on the ground like a corpse . 
I did not let the serpent come with them because it might have risen against you and made you tremble and the fear of it should fall into your hearts . 
For I knew that the accursed one is wicked therefore I would not let it come near you with the other beasts . 
But now strengthen your heart and fear not . 
I am with you to the end of the days I have determined on you . 
Chapter XX Adam wishes to protect Eve . 
Then Adam cried and said , O God , take us away to some other place , where the serpent can not come near us again , and rise against us . 
For fear that it might find Your handmaid Eve alone and kill her for its eyes are hideous and evil . 
Then Adam and Eve worshipped before God and gave Him thanks , and praised Him for having delivered them from death . 
Chapter XXI Adam and Eve attempt suicide . 
Then Adam and Eve went in search of the garden . 
And the heat beat like a flame on their faces and they sweated from the heat , and cried before the Lord . 
But the place where they cried was close to a high mountain , facing the western gate of the garden . 
Then Adam threw himself down from the top of that mountain his face was torn and his flesh was ripped he lost a lot of blood and was close to death . 
Meanwhile Eve remained standing on the mountain crying over him , thus lying . 
And she said , I don't wish to live after him for all that he did to himself was through me . 
Then she threw herself after him and was torn and ripped by stones and remained lying as dead . 
But the merciful God , who looks over His creatures , looked at Adam and Eve as they lay dead , and He sent His Word to them , and raised them . 
Chapter XXII Adam in a gracious mood . 
Then Adam said to God , I dry up in the heat , I am faint from walking , and I don't want to be in this world . 
And I don't know when You will take me out of it to rest . 
Then the Lord God said to him , O Adam , it cannot be now , not until you have ended your days . 
Then shall I bring you out of this miserable land . 
Then God said to Adam , So long as you were keeping My commandment , My light and My grace rested on you . 
But when you transgressed My commandment , sorrow and misery came to you in this land . 
Chapter XXIII Adam and Eve strengthen themselves and make the first altar ever built . 
Then Adam cried more and said , O God , have mercy on me , so far as to take on yourself , that which I will do . 
But God withdrew His Word from Adam and Eve . 
Then Adam and Eve stood on their feet and Adam said to Eve , Strengthen yourself , and I also will strengthen myself . 
And she strengthened herself , as Adam told her . 
But that which had dropped on the sand , they took together with the dust with which it was mingled and offered it on the altar as an offering to God . 
Then Adam and Eve stood under the Altar and cried , thus praying to God , Forgive us our trespass and our sin , and look at us with Thine eye of mercy . 
For when we were in the garden our praises and our hymns went up before you without ceasing . 
But our body is changed from the likeness in which it was at first , when we were created . 
And Adam began to make more requests of God . 
Let Your kingdom reign over us now and forever . 
The Holy Men of old said remit and forgive unto all men whatsoever they have done unto me . 
And lead us not into temptation , but deliver us from the evil thing for Thine is the kingdom and Thou shalt reign in glory forever and forevermore , AMEN . 
Chapter XXIV A vivid prophecy of the life and death of Christ . 
But He wondered at them and accepted their offerings . 
And God sent from His presence a bright fire , that consumed their offering . 
He smelled the sweet savor of their offering , and showed them mercy . 
And as you sued for forgiveness through that blood , so also will I make My blood forgiveness of sins , and erase transgressions in it . 
And now , behold , I have accepted your offering , O Adam , but the days of the covenant in which I have bound you are not fulfilled . 
When they are fulfilled , then will I bring you back into the garden . 
Now , therefore , strengthen your heart and when sorrow comes over you , make Me an offering , and I will be favorable to you . 
Chapter XXV God represented as merciful and loving . 
But God knew that Adam believed he should frequently kill himself and make an offering to Him of his blood . 
Therefore He said to him , O Adam , don't ever kill yourself like this again , by throwing yourself down from that mountain . 
Yet of Your goodness , O God , do not get rid of me altogether but be favorable to me every time I die , and bring me to life . 
This , then , was the first offering Adam made to God and so it became his custom to do . 
Chapter XXVI A beautiful prophecy of eternal life and joy . 
Then Adam took Eve , and they began to return to the Cave of Treasures where they lived . 
But when they got closer to it and saw it from a distance , heavy sorrow fell on Adam and Eve when they looked at it . 
But now the Word of God is hidden from us and the light that shown over us is so changed as to disappear , and let darkness and sorrow come over us . 
When Adam had said these words , they cried and spread their hands before God for they were full of sorrow . 
And they wished to die rather than see the darkness . 
Therefore God was not angry with them nor impatient with them but he was patient and forbearing towards them , as towards the children He had created . 
But then you would be deserted and stuck in a perpetual plague , and you would never be saved . 
Yes , rather , bear long and calm your soul while you live night and day until the fulfillment of the days , and the time of My covenant is come . 
Then shall I come and save you , O Adam , for I do not wish that you be afflicted . 
And when I look at all the good things in which you lived , and why you came out of them , then would I willingly show you mercy . 
But I cannot alter the covenant that has gone out of My mouth otherwise I would have brought you back into the garden . 
Then when Adam heard these words from God , he and Eve worshipped before Him , and their hearts were comforted . 
They returned into the cave after their custom , while tears flowed from their eyes , sorrow and wailing came from their hearts , and they wished their soul would leave their body . 
And Adam and Eve stood praying until the darkness of night came over them , and Adam was hid from Eve , and she from him . 
And they remained standing in prayer . 
Chapter XXVII The second tempting of Adam and Eve . 
The devil takes on the form of a beguiling light . 
He began with transforming his hosts in his hands was a flashing fire , and they were in a great light . 
He then placed his throne near the mouth of the cave because he could not enter into it by reason of their prayers . 
And he shed light into the cave , until the cave glistened over Adam and Eve while his hosts began to sing praises . 
If they are of some other god than You , tell me and if they are sent by you , inform me of the reason for which You have sent them . 
No sooner had Adam said this , than an angel from God appeared to him in the cave , who said to him , O Adam , fear not . 
This is Satan and his hosts he wishes to deceive you as he deceived you at first . 
And the angel said to Adam , This hideous form has been his ever since God made him fall from heaven . 
He could not have come near you in it he therefore transformed himself into an angel of light . 
Then the angel drove away Satan and his hosts from Adam and Eve , and said to them , Fear not God who created you , will strengthen you . 
And the angel left them . 
But Adam and Eve remained standing in the cave no consolation came to them they divided in their thoughts . 
And when it was morning they prayed and then went out to seek the garden . 
For their hearts were towards it , and they could get no consolation for having left it . 
Chapter XXVIII The Devil pretends to lead Adam and Eve to the water to bathe . 
And Adam spread his hands before God , beseeching Him to make him understand what they were . 
Then Satan , the hater of all good , said to Adam , O Adam , I am an angel of the great God and , behold the hosts that surround me . 
These words sank into the heart of Adam and Eve . 
Then Satan called to Adam and Eve , and said , Behold , we go to the sea of water , and they began to go . 
And Adam and Eve followed them at some little distance . 
Chapter XXIX God tells Adam of the Devil's purpose . 
But they saw none of the host which time after time were by them . 
They cried , both Adam and Eve , before God , and begged for forgiveness of Him . 
Then came the Word from God to Adam , and said to him , Know you and understand concerning this Satan , that he seeks to deceive you and your descendants after you . 
And Adam cried before the Lord God , and begged and prayed to Him to give him something from the garden , as a token to him , wherein to be comforted . 
And God considered Adam's thought , and sent the angel Michael as far as the sea that reaches India , to take from there golden rods and bring them to Adam . 
Then the angel Michael went down by God's order , took golden rods , as God had commanded him , and brought them to God . 
Chapter XXX Adam receives the first worldly goods . 
Then the angel Gabriel went down by God's order to the garden , and told the cherub as God had commanded him . 
The cherub then said , Well . 
And Gabriel went in and took the incense . 
Then God commanded his angel Raphael to go down to the garden , and speak to the cherub about some myrrh , to give to Adam . 
And the angel Raphael went down and told the cherub as God had commanded him , and the cherub said , Well . 
Then Raphael went in and took the myrrh . 
The golden rods were from the Indian sea , where there are precious stones . 
The incense was from the eastern border of the garden and the myrrh from the western border , from where bitterness came over Adam . 
And the angels brought these things to God , by the Tree of Life , in the garden . 
Chapter XXXI They make themselves more comfortable in the Cave of Treasures on the third day . 
When Adam heard these words from God , he worshipped before Him . 
He and Eve worshipped Him and gave Him thanks , because He had dealt mercifully with them . 
Then God commanded the three angels , Michael , Gabriel and Raphael , each to bring what he had brought , and give it to Adam . 
And they did so , one by one . 
There they laid the gold on the south side of the cave , the incense on the eastern side , and the myrrh on the western side . 
For the mouth of the cave was on the north side . 
The angels then comforted Adam and Eve , and departed . 
The gold was seventy rods the incense , twelve pounds and the myrrh , three pounds . 
These remained by Adam in the Cave of Treasures . 
And these three things , as they continued with Adam in the cave , gave him light by night and by day they gave him a little relief from his sorrow . 
A rod is a unit of linear measure equivalent to . 
yards and also a unit of area measure equivalent to . 
In this case , the word rod simply means a kind of long , thin piece of gold of unspecified size and weight . 
This is the original text which appears to contain embedded editorial content These remained by Adam in the House of Treasures therefore was it called 'of concealment . 
But other interpreters say it was called the 'Cave of Treasures , by reason of the bodies of righteous men that were in it . 
Chapter XXXII Adam and Eve go into the water to pray . 
And Adam and Eve remained in the Cave of Treasures until the seventh day they neither ate of the fruit the earth , nor drank water . 
And pray to God with burning heart and a sweet voice , to forgive us . 
And I will go to another place , and go down into it , and do like you . 
Then Eve went down into the water , as Adam had commanded her . 
Adam also went down into the water and they stood praying and besought the Lord to forgive them their offense , and to restore them to their former state . 
And they stood like that praying , until the end of the thirty five days . 
Chapter XXXIII Satan falsely promises the bright light . 
But Satan , the hater of all good , sought them in the cave , but found them not , although he searched diligently for them . 
But I will deceive them so that they shall come out of the water , and not fulfil their vow . 
I have brought him the glad tidings of salvation , and of his being filled with bright light as he was at first . 
And Adam , in his joy for his restoration , has sent me to you , that you come to me , in order that I crown you with light like him . 
When Eve hear these words from him , she rejoiced greatly . 
And thinking Satan's appearance was real , she came out of the sea . 
He went before , and she followed him until they came to Adam . 
Then Satan hid himself from her , and she saw him no more . 
She then came and stood before Adam , who was standing by the water and rejoicing in God's forgiveness . 
But God looked at him and at his misery , and at his being about to breathe his last . 
And the Word of God came from heaven , raised him out of the water , and said to him , Go up the high bank to Eve . 
But Adam grieved , and gave her to know it was Satan . 
He then took her and they both returned to the cave . 
These things happened to them the second time they went down to the water , seven days after their coming out of the garden . 
They fasted in the water thirty five days altogether forty two days since they had left the garden . 
Chapter XXXIV Adam recalls the creation of Eve . 
He eloquently appeals for food and drink . 
And on the morning of the forty third day , they came out of the cave , sorrowful and crying . 
Their bodies were lean , and they were parched from hunger and thirst , from fasting and praying , and from their heavy sorrow on account of their transgression . 
And when they had come out of the cave they went up the mountain to the west of the garden . 
There they stood and prayed and besought God to grant them forgiveness of their sins . 
And Your will was that I should name them all , one by one , with a suitable name . 
But You gave me understanding and knowledge , and a pure heart and a right mind from you , that I should name them after Thine own mind regarding the naming of them . 
But now they are all estranged from me . 
And if You had punished me as You said , with death , I should have died that very moment . 
Then You drew a rib out of my side , and created it after my own likeness and image . 
Now , therefore , O God , we pray you , give us something to eat from the garden , to satisfy our hunger with it and something wherewith to quench our thirst . 
Then , O God , we dare not gather anything from the fruit of trees , from fear of you . 
For when we transgress at first You spared us and did not make us die . 
And if we drink of this water , without God's order , He will make an end of us and root us up at once . 
For we desire the fruit that is on the earth , and all else that we lack in it . 
The medieval belief that there were only four elements fire , earth , air , and water was widely accepted until about AD when the current atomic theory was in its infancy . 
But since you transgressed , and came into this strange land , all these trials are come over you . 
When I heard the sound of You and Your voice , I hid myself , because I am naked . 
Then the cherub took two figs and brought them to Adam and Eve . 
But he threw them to them from a distance for they might not come near the cherub by reason of their flesh , that could not come near the fire . 
At first , angels trembled at the presence of Adam and were afraid of him . 
But now Adam trembled before the angels and was afraid of them . 
Then Adam came closer and took one fig , and Eve also came in turn and took the other . 
And as they took them up in their hands , they looked at them , and knew they were from the trees among which they had hidden themselves . 
Chapter XXXVII Forty three days of penance do not redeem one hour of sin . 
Thus did Adam and Eve restrain themselves , and did not eat of these figs . 
But in the evening You made us come out of it . 
O God , we transgressed against You one hour , and all these trials and sorrows have come over us until this day . 
But now , O Lord , behold , we have endured all these days , and have borne sufferings . 
Make these forty three days an equivalent for the one hour in which we transgressed . 
Chapter XXXVIII When years are fulfilled . 
At that time I will give you fruit from the Tree of Life , and you will eat , and live forever , you , and Eve , and your righteous descendants . 
But these forty three days cannot make amends for the hour in which you transgressed My commandment . 
O Adam , I gave you the fruit of the fig tree to eat in which you hid yourself . 
Go and eat of it , you and Eve . 
I will not deny your request , neither will I disappoint your hope therefore , endure until the fulfillment of the covenant I made with you . 
And God withdrew His Word from Adam . 
Chapter XXXIX Adam is cautious but too late . 
Then Adam returned to Eve , and said to her , Get up , and take a fig for yourself , and I will take another and let us go to our cave . 
Then Adam and Eve took each a fig and went towards the cave the time was about the setting of the sun and their thoughts made them long to eat of the fruit . 
But Adam said to Eve , I am afraid to eat of this fig . 
I know not what may come over me from it . 
Chapter XL The first Human hunger . 
And God withdrew His Word for Adam . 
Chapter XLI The first Human thirst . 
Then Adam took the fig , and laid it on the golden rods . 
Eve also took her fig , and put it on the incense . 
And the weight of each fig was that of a water melon for the fruit of the garden was much larger than the fruit of this land . 
But Adam and Eve remained standing and fasting the whole of that night , until the morning dawned . 
There we will pray to God , and ask Him to give us some of the Water of Life to drink . 
For God has not fed us with the Tree of Life , in order that we may not live . 
And they stood and prayed before the Lord , and asked Him to look at them this once , to forgive them , and to grant them their request . 
So that in order to live I did not require any Food of Life , neither did I drink of the Water of Life . 
But now , O God , I am dead my flesh is parched with thirst . 
Give me of the Water of Life that I may drink of it and live . 
This is substantiated by Genesis whereby the leaves of the fig tree were large enough that Adam and Eve could fashion garments from them . 
Chapter XLII A promise of the Water of Life . 
The third prophecy of the coming of Christ . 
But you can not make your entrance into it at present but only after your judgment is past and fulfilled . 
Then will I make you go up into the kingdom of heaven , you and your righteous descendants and I will give you and them the rest you ask for at present . 
Then will I in mercy save your soul and the souls of the righteous , to give them rest in My garden . 
And that shall be when the end of the world is come . 
The Lord said again to Adam , O Adam , when you were in the garden , these trials did not come to you . 
But since you transgressed My commandment , all these sufferings have come over you . 
Now , also , does your flesh require food and drink drink then of that water that flows by you on the face of the earth . 
Then God withdrew His Word from Adam . 
And Adam and Eve worshipped the Lord , and returned from the river of water to the cave . 
It was noon day and when they drew near to the cave , they saw a large fire by it . 
This phrase indicates that the bleeding will take place in an elevated position above the populace . 
This is believed to be a reference to the cross whereby Christ bled profusely above the people below . 
was the hill outside the walls of Jerusalem where Jesus was crucified . 
Its exact location is not precisely known , but the Church of the Holy Sepulcher is believed to have been constructed on this hill . 
Reference John and Chapter XLIII The Devil attempts arson . 
Then Adam and Eve were afraid , and stood still . 
And Adam said to Eve , What is that fire by our cave ? We have done nothing in it to cause this fire . 
We neither have bread to bake therein , nor broth to cook there . 
As to this fire , we have never known anything like it , neither do we know what to call it . 
But now , O Eve , behold , this is the same fire that was in the cherub's hand , which God has sent to keep the cave in which we live . 
O Eve , it is because God is angry with us , and will drive us from it . 
O Eve , we have again transgressed His commandment in that cave , so that He had sent this fire to burn around it , and to prevent us from going into it . 
And they kept looking , He and Eve , towards the cave , and at the fire that flared up around it . 
But that fire was from Satan . 
So that Adam and Eve should be left in sorrow , and he should cut off their trust in God , and make them deny Him . 
But by the mercy of God he could not burn the cave , for God sent His angel around the cave to guard it from such a fire , until it went out . 
And this fire lasted from noon day until the break of day . 
That was the forty fifth day . 
Chapter XLIV The power of fire over man . 
Yet Adam and Eve were standing and looking at the fire , and unable to come near the cave from their dread of the fire . 
But the angel of the Lord was guarding it . 
Were it not for My mercy I would have destroyed you and your hosts from off the earth . 
But I have had patience with you , until the end of the world . 
Then Satan fled from before the Lord . 
Then they both began crying because of the fire that separated them from the cave , and that came towards them , burning . 
But the fire is not changed in its nature , nor altered from its creation . 
Therefore it now has power over us and when we come near it , it scorches our flesh . 
Chapter XLV Why Satan didn't fulfil his promises . 
He is the one who made this fire in which he meant to burn you and Eve . 
Then you will see the burning of his fire , that will be burning around you and likewise your descendants . 
There is no way for you at present to come from this life to rest , not until My Word comes , who is My Word . 
Then He will make a way for you , and you shall have rest . 
Then God called with His Word to the fire that burned around the cave , that it split itself in half , until Adam had gone through it . 
Then the fire parted itself by God's order , and a way was made for Adam . 
And God withdrew His Word from Adam . 
Reference Exodus , and Joshua Chapter XLVI How many times have I delivered you out of his hand . 
Then Adam and Eve began again to come into the cave . 
Then God looked at their bodies , on which Satan had caused fire to burn , and God sent His angel that stayed the burning fire . 
But the wounds remained on their bodies . 
But as to the Godhead he cannot give it to you , neither fulfil his speech to you . 
No , he was bitter against you and your descendants , that will come after you . 
And God withdrew His Word form them . 
At this time , the garments that the Lord had given them in Genesis were burned off so that Adam and Eve were again naked . 
Reference chapter L whereby Adam and Eve seek garments with which to cover their nakedness . 
Chapter XLVII The Devil's own Scheming . 
Then Adam and Eve came into the cave , yet trembling at the fire that had scorched their bodies . 
For it was in their thoughts , that they never should enter it , when they saw the fire around it . 
But as the sun was setting the fire was still burning and nearing Adam and Eve in the cave , so that they could not sleep in it . 
After the sun had set , they went out of it . 
This was the forty seventh day after they came out of the garden . 
Adam and Eve then came under the top of hill by the garden to sleep , as they were accustomed . 
And they stood and prayed God to forgive them their sins , and then fell asleep under the summit of the mountain . 
Chapter XLVIII Fifth apparition of Satan to Adam and Eve . 
When Satan's hosts heard these words , they came to the part of the mountain where Adam and Eve were asleep . 
He then said to his hosts , Take up this stone , and throw it flat on them , so that it doesn't roll off them to somewhere else . 
And when you have hurled it , get away from there quickly . 
And they did as he told them . 
But as the rock fell down from the mountain toward Adam and Eve , God commanded the rock to become a dome over them , that did them no harm . 
And so it was by God's order . 
But when the rock fell , the whole earth quaked with it , and was shaken from the size of the rock . 
And as it quaked and shook , Adam and Eve awoke from sleep , and found themselves under a dome of rock . 
But they didn't know what had happened because when the fell asleep they were under the sky , and not under a dome and when they saw it , they were afraid . 
But get up and pray to God to let us know concerning this , and what this rock is that is spread over us like a tent . 
Then Adam stood up and prayed before the Lord , to let him know what had brought about this difficult time . 
And Adam stood praying like that until the morning . 
Another conclusion would be that the holes were large but too high up for Adam and Eve to reach , however the former is more likely . 
, God tells Adam and Eve that the ground was also lowered under them I commanded . 
the rock under you to lower itself . 
Chapter XLIX The first prophecy of the Resurrection . 
It came from Satan , who had promised you the Godhead and majesty . 
It is he who threw down this rock to kill you under it , and Eve with you , and thus to prevent you from living on the earth . 
But on the third day I shall rise again , and it shall be salvation to you , O Adam , and to your descendants , to believe in Me . 
But , O Adam , I will not bring you from under this rock until three days and three nights have passed . 
And God withdrew His Word from Adam . 
But Adam and Eve lived under the rock three days and three nights , as God had told them . 
And God did so to them because they had left their cave and had come to this same place without God's order . 
But , after three days and three nights , God created an opening in the dome of rock and allowed them to get out from under it . 
Their flesh was dried up , and their eyes and hearts were troubled from crying and sorrow . 
Chapter L Adam and Eve seek to cover their nakedness . 
Then Adam and Eve went forth and came into the Cave of Treasures , and they stood praying in it the whole of that day , until the evening . 
And this took place at the end of the fifty days after they had left the garden . 
But Adam and Eve rose again and prayed to God in the cave the whole of that night , and begged for mercy from Him . 
And when the day dawned , Adam said to Eve , Come ! Let us go and do some work for our bodies . 
So they went out of the cave , and came to the northern border of the garden , and they looked for something to cover their bodies with . 
But they found nothing , and knew not how to do the work . 
Yet their bodies were stained , and they were speechless from cold and heat . 
Then Adam stood and asked God to show him something with which to cover their bodies . 
Then came the Word of God and said to him , O Adam , take Eve and come to the seashore where you fasted before . 
There you will find skins of sheep that were left after lions ate the carcasses . 
Take them and make garments for yourselves , and clothe yourselves with them . 
Chapter XLVI , verse , says Satan blew into the fire . 
so that their bodies were singed . 
At this time , the garments that the Lord had given them in Genesis were burned off so that Adam and Eve were again naked . 
But as they were going on their way , and before they got there , Satan , the wicked one , had heard the Word of God communing with Adam respecting his covering . 
But as he was about to take them , the Word of God came from heaven , and bound him by the side of those skins until Adam and Eve came near him . 
But as they got closer to him they were afraid of him , and of his hideous look . 
This is he who promised you majesty and divinity . 
O Adam , he wished to take from you this earthly garment of sheep skins , and to destroy it , and not let you be covered with it . 
See , I bound him until you came and saw him and beheld his weakness , that no power is left with him . 
And God released him from his bonds . 
Chapter LII Adam and Eve sew the first shirt . 
After this Adam and Eve said no more , but cried before God on account of their creation , and of their bodies that required an earthly covering . 
Just as the owners of these skins have died and have wasted away , so also shall we die and pass away . 
Then Adam and Eve took the skins , and went back to the Cave of Treasures and when in it , they stood and prayed as they were accustomed . 
And they thought how they could make garments of those skins for they had no skill for it . 
Then God sent to them His angel to show them how to work it out . 
And the angel said to Adam , Go forth , and bring some palm thorns . 
Then Adam went out , and brought some , as the angel had commanded him . 
Then the angel began before them to work out the skins , after the manner of one who prepares a shirt . 
And he took the thorns and stuck them into the skins , before their eyes . 
Then the angel again stood up and prayed God that the thorns in those skins should be hidden , so as to be , as it were , sewn with one thread . 
And so it was , by God's order they became garments for Adam and Eve , and He clothed them therewith . 
From that time the nakedness of their bodies was covered from the sight of each other's eyes . 
And this happened at the end of the fifty first day . 
And they ceased not from prayer the whole of that night . 
Then when the morning dawned at the rising of the sun , they said their prayers after their custom and then went out of the cave . 
And Adam said to Eve , Since we don't know what there is to the west of this cave , let us go out and see it today . 
Then they came forth and went toward the western border . 
Chapter LIII The prophecy of the Western Lands and of the great flood . 
Then Adam and Eve cried , and prayed God to deliver them from their paws . 
Then the Word of God came to them , and drove away the lions from them . 
Therefore will I bring over them the waters of a flood , and overwhelm them all . 
After God had thus spoken to them , they went back to the Cave of Treasures . 
But their flesh was dried up , and they were weak from fasting and praying , and from the sorrow they felt at having trespassed against God . 
Chapter LIV Adam and Eve go exploring . 
Then Adam and Eve stood up in the cave and prayed the whole of that night until the morning dawned . 
And when the sun was risen they both went out of the cave their heads were wandering from heaviness of sorrow and they didn't know where they were going . 
And they walked in that condition to the southern border of the garden . 
And they began to go up that border until they came to the eastern border beyond which there was no more land . 
And the cherub who guarded the garden was standing at the western gate , and guarding it against Adam and Eve , lest they should suddenly come into the garden . 
And the cherub turned around , as if to put them to death according to the commandment God had given him . 
For he was afraid that God would destroy him if they went into the garden without His order . 
And the sword of the cherub seemed to shoot flames a distance away from it . 
But when he raised it over Adam and Eve , the flame of the sword did not flash forth . 
Therefore the cherub thought that God was favorable to them , and was bringing them back into the garden . 
And the cherub stood wondering . 
When Adam and Eve saw the cherub coming towards them with a flaming sword of fire in his hand , they fell on their faces from fear , and were as dead . 
At that time the heavens and the earth shook and another cherubim came down from heaven to the cherub who guarded the garden , and saw him amazed and silent . 
Then , again , other angels came down close to the place where Adam and Eve were . 
They were divided between joy and sorrow . 
They were glad , because they thought that God was favorable to Adam , and wished him to return to the garden and wished to restore him to the gladness he once enjoyed . 
Chapter LV The Conflict between God and Satan . 
I sang praises as you do and my heart was far above you . 
But now , that I have transgressed , that bright nature is gone from me , and I am come to this miserable state . 
And now I have come to this , that I cannot see you , and you do not serve me like you used to do . 
For I have become animal flesh . 
Then the angels said to Adam , You obeyed Satan , and ignored the Word of God who created you and you believed that Satan would fulfil all he had promised you . 
But now , O Adam , we will make known to you , what came over us though him , before his fall from heaven . 
He gathered together his hosts , and deceived them , promising to give them a great kingdom , a divine nature and other promises he made them . 
His hosts believed that his word was true , so they yielded to him , and renounced the glory of God . 
He then sent for us according to the orders in which we were to come under his command , and to accept his vein promise . 
But we would not , and we did not take his advice . 
Then after he had fought with God , and had dealt forwardly with Him , he gathered together his hosts , and made war with us . 
And if it had not been for God's strength that was with us , we could not have prevailed against him to hurl him from heaven . 
But when he fell from among us , there was great joy in heaven , because of his going down from us . 
For if he had remained in heaven , nothing , not even one angel would have remained in it . 
But God in His mercy , drove him from among us to this dark earth for he had become darkness itself and a worker of unrighteousness . 
And death , which God brought to him , he has also brought to you , O Adam , because you obeyed him , and trespassed against God . 
Chapter LVI A chapter of divine comfort . 
Yet , if you had submitted , and been obedient to Me , and had kept My Word , you would be with My angels in My garden . 
But , O Adam , he will not fulfil even one of the things he told you . 
Then God said again to Adam and Eve , Get up , go down from here , before the cherub with a sword of fire in his hand destroys you . 
But Adam's heart was comforted by God's words to him , and he worshipped before Him . 
And God commanded His angels to escort Adam and Eve to the cave with joy , instead of the fear that had come over them . 
Then the angels took up Adam and Eve , and brought them down from the mountain by the garden , with songs and psalms , until they arrived at the cave . 
There the angels began to comfort and to strengthen them , and then departed from them towards heaven , to their Creator , who had sent them . 
But after the angels had departed from Adam and Eve , Satan came with shamefacedness , and stood at the entrance of the cave in which were Adam and Eve . 
He then called to Adam , and said , O Adam , come , let me speak to you . 
Then Adam came out of the cave , thinking he was one of God's angels that was come to give him some good counsel . 
Chapter LVII Therefore I fell . 
I am he who sent her , using my deceitful speech , to deceive you , until you both ate of the fruit of the tree and abandoned the command of God . 
For I myself have never even thought of obtaining what I promised . 
Therefore I fell , and I made you fall by that for which I myself fell and with you also , whosoever accepts my counsel , falls thereby . 
But now , O Adam , because you fell you are under my rule , and I am king over you because you have obeyed me and have transgressed against your God . 
Neither will there be any deliverance from my hands until the day promised you by your God . 
This is our will and our good pleasure , that we may not leave one of the sons of men to inherit our orders in heaven . 
For as to our home , O Adam , it is in burning fire and we will not stop our evil doing , no , not one day nor one hour . 
And I , O Adam , shall set you on fire when you come into the cave to live there . 
When Adam heard these words he cried and mourned , and said to Eve , Hear what he said that he won't fulfil any of what he told you in the garden . 
Did he really then become king over us ? But we will ask God , who created us , to deliver us out of his hands . 
Chapter LVIII About sunset on the rd day . 
Then Adam and Eve spread their hands before God , praying and begging Him to drive Satan away from them so that he can't harm them or force them to deny God . 
Then God sent to them at once , His angel , who drove away Satan from them . 
This happened about sunset , on the fifty third day after they had come out of the garden . 
Then Adam and Eve went into the cave , and stood up and turned their faces to the ground , to pray to God . 
But before they prayed Adam said to Eve , Look , you have seen what temptations have befallen us in this land . 
And if we die in here , He will save us . 
Then Adam and Eve got up , and joined together in entreating God . 
Chapter LIX Eighth apparition of Satan of Satan to Adam and Eve . 
But Satan , the hater of all good , did not allow them to finish their prayers . 
For he called to his hosts , and they came , all of them . 
And his hosts said to him , Power is thine , O our lord , to do what you list . 
But God had patience with Adam , and let him and Eve remain in the cave until they had fulfilled the forty days . 
They were fallen down in the cave yet what speech escaped from their mouths , was only in praises . 
Chapter LX The Devil appears like an old man . 
He offers a place of rest . 
Then on the eighty ninth day , Satan came to the cave , clad in a garment of light , and girt about with a bright girdle . 
In his hands was a staff of light , and he looked most awful but his face was pleasant and his speech was sweet . 
He thus transformed himself in order to deceive Adam and Eve , and to make them come out of the cave , before they had fulfilled the forty days . 
I am flesh and bones like you and at first I was a creature that God created . 
And it was so , that when He had created me , He placed me in a garden in the north , on the border of the world . 
And He said to me , 'Stay here ! And I remained there according to His Word , neither did I transgress His commandment . 
Then He made a slumber to come over me , and He brought you , O Adam , out of my side , but did not make you stay with me . 
But God took you in His divine hand , and placed you in a garden to the eastward . 
Then I worried about you , for that while God had taken you out of my side , He had not let you stay with me . 
But God said to me 'Do not worry about Adam , whom I brought out of your side no harm will come to him . 
For now I have brought out of his side a help meet for him and I have given him joy by so doing . 
And look , they are in suffering until this day , the eightieth . 
Then God said to me , 'Get up , go to them , and make them come to your place , and suffer not that Satan come near them , and afflict them . 
For they are now in great misery and lie helpless from hunger . 
But grieve not over them , nor repent of that which has come over them . 
But when I heard this , I was sorry and my heart could not patiently bear it for your sake , O my child . 
And I said , 'O God , when I go to my children , Satan will meet me in the way , and war against me , as he did against them . 
Then I said , 'O my Lord , I am old , and cannot go . 
Send Your angels to bring them . 
But God said to me , 'Angels , verily , are not like them and they will not consent to come with them . 
But I have chosen you , because they are your offspring and are like you , and they will listen to what you say . 
And if they will come with you , I will send a cloud to carry you and them . 
Then He commanded a cloud , and it bear me up and brought me to you and then went back . 
And now , O my children , Adam and Eve , look at my old gray hair and at my feeble state , and at my coming from that distant place . 
Come , come with me , to a place of rest . 
Then he began to cry and to sob before Adam and Eve , and his tears poured on the ground like water . 
And it seemed to them that they were really his offspring , when they saw that his face was like their own and they trusted him . 
The existence of the two words helpmeet and helpmate , meaning exactly the same thing , is a comedy of errors . 
God's promise to Adam , as rendered in the King James version of the Bible , was to give him an help meet for him . 
In the th century the two words help and meet in this passage were mistaken for one word , applying to Eve , and thus helpmeet came to mean a wife . 
Then in the th century , in a misguided attempt to make sense of the word , the spelling helpmate was introduced . 
Both errors are now beyond recall , and both spellings are acceptable . 
Chapter LXI They begin to follow Satan . 
Then he took Adam and Eve by the hand , and began to bring them out of the cave . 
Then the Word of the Lord God again came and cursed Satan , and drove him away from them . 
And we believed , O God , that he was a messenger from you and we came out with him and knew not where we should go with him . 
Then God said to Adam , See , that is the father of evil arts , who brought you and Eve out of the Garden of Delights . 
Because he couldn't do anything to you unless he showed himself in the likeness of you . 
Therefore he came to you with a face like your own , and began to give you tokens as if they were all true . 
But because I am merciful and am favorable to you , I did not allow him to destroy you instead I drove him away from you . 
Now , therefore , O Adam , take Eve , and return to your cave , and remain in it until the morning after the fortieth day . 
And when you come out , go towards the eastern gate of the garden . 
Then Adam and Eve worshipped God , and praised and blessed Him for the deliverance that had come to them from Him . 
And they returned towards the cave . 
This happened in the evening of the thirty ninth day . 
Then Adam and Eve stood up and with a fiery passion , prayed to God , to give them strength for they had become weak because of hunger and thirst and prayer . 
But they watched the whole of that night praying , until morning . 
Then Adam said to Eve , Get up , let us go towards the eastern gate of the garden as God told us . 
And they said their prayers as they were accustomed to do every day and they left the cave to go near to the eastern gate of the garden . 
Then Adam and Eve stood up and prayed , and appealed to God to strengthen them , and to send them something to satisfy their hunger . 
But after they finished their prayers , they were too weak to move . 
Then came the Word of God again , and said to them , O Adam , get up , go and bring the two figs here . 
Then Adam and Eve got up , and went until they came near to the cave . 
Chapter LXII Two fruit trees . 
But Satan the wicked was envious , because of the consolation God had given them . 
So he prevented them , and went into the cave and took the two figs , and buried them outside the cave , so that Adam and Eve should not find them . 
He also had in his thoughts to destroy them . 
For Satan had buried them on the eastern side of it . 
Whereas I had in mind , when I buried them , to destroy them entirely , and to hide them forever . 
Then Satan went away ashamed because he hadn't thought his plans all the way through . 
Chapter LXIII The first joy of trees . 
But Adam and Eve , as they got closer to the cave , saw two fig trees , covered with fruit , and overshadowing the cave . 
Then Adam said to Eve , It seems to me that we have gone the wrong way . 
When did these two trees grow here ? It seems to me that the enemy wishes to lead us the wrong way . 
But if we should not find the two figs in it , then it cannot be our cave . 
They went then into the cave , and looked into the four corners of it , but found not the two figs . 
And Eve said , I , for my part , do not know . 
But now , we have not found them . 
Not for his mere sake , then , have these trees grown up at once but I had mercy on you and I commanded them to grow . 
And they grew to be two large trees , that you be overshadowed by their branches , and find rest and that I made you see My power and My marvelous works . 
But I have not given him power over you . 
And God said , From now on , O Adam , rejoice on account of the trees , you and Eve and rest under them when you feel weary . 
But do not eat any of their fruit or come near them . 
For we know Your marvelous works , O God , that they are great , and that by Your power You can bring one thing out of another , without one's wish . 
For Your power can make rocks to become trees , and trees to become rocks . 
Chapter LXIV Adam and Eve partake of the first earthly food . 
Then God looked at Adam and at his strength of mind , at his endurance of hunger and thirst , and of the heat . 
And He changed the two fig trees into two figs , as they were at first , and then said to Adam and to Eve , Each of you may take one fig . 
And they took them , as the Lord commanded them . 
And He said to them , You must now go into the cave and eat the figs , and satisfy your hunger , or else you will die . 
So , as God commanded them , they went into the cave about sunset . 
And Adam and Eve stood up and prayed during the setting sun . 
Then they sat down to eat the figs but they knew not how to eat them for they were not accustomed to eat earthly food . 
They were afraid that if they ate , their stomach would be burdened and their flesh thickened , and their hearts would take to liking earthly food . 
But while they were thus seated , God , out of pity for them , sent them His angel , so they wouldn't perish of hunger and thirst . 
Then Adam and Eve took the figs and began to eat of them . 
But God had put into them a mixture as of savory bread and blood . 
Then the angel went from Adam and Eve , who ate of the figs until they had satisfied their hunger . 
Then they put aside what was left but by the power of God , the figs became whole again , because God blessed them . 
After this Adam and Eve got up , and prayed with a joyful heart and renewed strength , and praised and rejoiced abundantly the whole of that night . 
And this was the end of the eighty third day . 
Chapter LXV Adam and Eve acquire digestive organs . 
Final hope of returning to the Garden is lost . 
And when it was day , they got up and prayed , after their custom , and then went out of the cave . 
Then Adam said to Eve , This pain did not come to us in the garden , neither did we eat such bad food there . 
O Lord , don't punish us but deal with us according to Your great mercy , and forsake us not until the day of the promise You have made us . 
Then God looked at them , and then fitted them for eating food at once as to this day so that they should not perish . 
Then Adam and Eve came back into the cave sorrowful and crying because of the alteration of their bodies . 
And they both knew from that hour that they were altered beings , that all hope of returning to the garden was now lost and that they could not enter it . 
For that now their bodies had strange functions and all flesh that requires food and drink for its existence , cannot be in the garden . 
Then Adam said to Eve , Behold , our hope is now lost and so is our trust to enter the garden . 
We no longer belong to the inhabitants of the garden but from now on we are earthy and of the dust , and of the inhabitants of the earth . 
We shall not return to the garden , until the day in which God has promised to save us , and to bring us again into the garden , as He promised us . 
That night Adam and Eve spent in the cave , where they slept heavily by reason of the food they had eaten . 
Chapter LXVI Adam does his first day's work . 
But now let us also ask Him to give us a drink of water . 
Then they got up , and went to the bank of the stream of water , that was on the south border of the garden , in which they had before thrown themselves . 
And they stood on the bank , and prayed to God that He would command them to drink of the water . 
Then the Word of God came to Adam , and said to him , O Adam , your body has become brutish , and requires water to drink . 
Take some and drink it , you and Eve , then give thanks and praise . 
Adam and Eve then went down to the stream and drank from it , until their bodies felt refreshed . 
After having drunk , they praised God , and then returned to their cave , after their former custom . 
This happened at the end of eighty three days . 
And they placed them there so that if their descendants came there , they would see the wonderful things God had done for them . 
Then Adam and Eve again stood outside the cave , and asked God to show them some food with which they could nourish their bodies . 
Then the Word of God came again to Adam , and said to him , Take some of this wheat and make yourselves some bread with it , to nourish your body therewith . 
And God gave Adam's heart wisdom , to work out the corn until it became bread . 
Adam accomplished all that , until he grew very faint and weary . 
He then returned to the cave rejoicing at what he had learned of what is done with wheat , until it is made into bread for one's use . 
In this book , the terms 'corn' and 'wheat' are used interchangeably . 
The reference is possibly used to indicate a type of ancient grain resembling Egyptian Corn also known as Durra . 
Durra is a wheat like cereal grain frequently cultivated in dry regions such as Egypt . 
Chapter LXVII Then Satan began to lead astray Adam and Eve . 
So they readied themselves , and began to pull up the wheat by hand , until it was all done . 
Then they heaped it into a pile and , faint from heat and from thirst , they went under a shady tree , where the breeze fanned them to sleep . 
But Satan saw what Adam and Eve had done . 
So shall we be rid of them . 
Then Satan and his hosts set the wheat on fire and burned it up . 
But from the heat of the flame Adam and Eve awoke from their sleep , and saw the wheat burning , and the bucket of water by them , poured out . 
Then they cried and went back to the cave . 
But as they were going up from below the mountain where they were , Satan and his hosts met them in the form of angels , praising God . 
Then Satan said to Adam , O Adam , why are you so pained with hunger and thirst ? It seems to me that Satan has burnt up the wheat . 
And Adam said to him , Yes . 
Again Satan said to Adam , Come back with us we are angels of God . 
Adam thought that he was true , and that they were angels who talked with him and he went back with them . 
Then Satan began to lead astray Adam and Eve eight days , until they both fell down as if dead , from hunger , thirst , and faintness . 
Then he fled with his hosts , and left them . 
Chapter LXVIII How destruction and trouble is of Satan when he is the master . 
Adam and Eve establish the custom of worship . 
Then God looked at Adam and Eve , and at what had come over them from Satan , and how he had made them perish . 
God , therefore , sent His Word , and raised up Adam and Eve from their state of death . 
And You have sent Your angels , who have caused us to lose our way from the corn field . 
Will You make us perish ? If this be from you , O God , then take away our souls but punish us not . 
But it is Satan , your master who did it he to whom you have subjected yourself my commandment being meanwhile set aside . 
But now , O Adam , you shall acknowledge My good deeds done to you . 
There they saw a tree , and found on it solid manna and wondered at God's power . 
And the angels commanded them to eat of the manna when they were hungry . 
And God admonished Satan with a curse , not to come again , and destroy the field of corn . 
And they offered this offering again on the altar they had built at first . 
But now , O God , accept this offering from us , and don't turn us away , deprived of Your mercy . 
And God sent a bright fire over the offering of Adam and Eve , and filled it with brightness , grace , and light and the Holy Ghost came down on that offering . 
Then God commanded an angel to take fire tongs , like a spoon , and with it to take an offering and bring it to Adam and Eve . 
And the angel did so , as God had commanded him , and offered it to them . 
And the souls of Adam and Eve were brightened , and their hearts were filled with joy and gladness and with the praises of God . 
And God said to Adam , This shall be to you a custom , to do so , when affliction and sorrow come over you . 
Adam rejoiced at these words which he heard from God and he and Eve worshipped before the altar , to which they bowed , and then went back to the Cave of Treasures . 
And this took place at the end of the twelfth day after the eightieth day , from the time Adam and Eve came out of the garden . 
And they stood up the whole night praying until morning and then went out of the cave . 
And as they agreed to these words between themselves , God was pleased with their thoughts , and with the resolution they had each taken with the other . 
But as to the first day , I created in it all things , and I raised the heavens . 
Then God withdrew His Word from Adam . 
But Adam continued to offer this offering thus , every week three times , until the end of seven weeks . 
Chapter LXIX Twelfth apparition of Satan to Adam and Eve , while Adam was praying over the offering on the altar when Satan beat him . 
Adam was then offering on the altar , and had begun to pray , with his hands spread before God . 
Then Eve came , and took Adam and placed him below the altar . 
And there she stayed , crying over him while a stream of blood flowed from Adam's side over his offering . 
But God looked at the death of Adam . 
Then God commanded Adam to finish his offering , and when he had ended it he worshipped before God , and praised Him for the signs He had showed him . 
And God healed Adam in one day , which is the end of the seven weeks and that is the fiftieth day . 
Then Adam and Eve returned from the mountain , and went into the Cave of Treasures , as they were used to do . 
This completed for Adam and Eve , one hundred and forty days since their coming out of the garden . 
Then they both stood up that night and prayed to God . 
But when there a multitude of beasts came all around them . 
It was Satan's doing , in his wickedness in order to wage war against Adam through marriage . 
Chapter LXX Thirteenth apparition of Satan , to trick Adam into marrying Eve . 
They passed before Adam and Eve while they were under the tree , and greeted Adam and Eve with fair words that were full of deceit . 
For he did not know it was Satan therefore he received them with joy and consorted with them . 
Then Satan , the tallest of them , said , Rejoice , O Adam , and be glad . 
Look , God has sent us to you to tell you something . 
And Satan said again to Adam , Don't be afraid and don't tremble don't you know us ? But Adam said , I do not know you . 
So when Adam heard these words he believed them , and said to these angels , Speak the Word of God , that I may receive it . 
And Satan said to him , Swear , and promise me that you will receive it . 
Then Adam said , I do not know how to swear and promise . 
And Satan said to him , Hold out your hand , and put it inside my hand . 
Then Satan said to him , Look , it is now some time since you came out of the garden , and you know neither wickedness nor evil . 
See the previous footnote in chapter XXXIV regarding the 'four elements' . 
Chapter LXXI Adam is troubled by the thought of marrying Eve . 
But God never spoke the words that you have said and you are not God's angels , and you weren't sent from Him . 
But you are devils that have come to me under the false appearance of angels . 
Away from me you cursed of God ! Then those devils fled from before Adam . 
And he and Eve got up , and returned to the Cave of Treasures , and went into it . 
Eve , then , held her peace , as Adam told her . 
Then Adam got up , and spread his hands before God , beseeching and entreating Him with tears , to forgive him what he had done . 
And Adam remained thus standing and praying forty days and forty nights . 
He neither ate nor drank until he dropped down on the ground from hunger and thirst . 
And God forgave Adam , saying to him , Beware of Satan . 
And He withdrew His Word from Adam . 
Then Adam's heart was comforted and he took Eve , and they went out of the cave , to prepare some food for their bodies . 
But from that day Adam struggled in his mind about his marrying Eve afraid that if he was to do it , God would be angry with him . 
Then Adam and Eve went to the river of water , and sat on the bank , as people do when they enjoy themselves . 
But Satan was jealous of them and planned to destroy them . 
Chapter LXXII Adam's heart is set on fire . 
Satan appears as beautiful maidens . 
Then Satan , and ten from his hosts , transformed themselves into maidens , unlike any others in the whole world for grace . 
How beautiful they are , and how different is their look from our own faces . 
Then they came to Adam and Eve , and greeted them and stood wondering at them . 
And if so be , O Adam , you will not believe us , we will show you our husbands and our children . 
But when Adam and Eve saw them , they stood dumb , and wondered at them . 
This was a device of Satan to deceive Adam . 
Satan also thought within himself , God at first commanded Adam concerning the fruit of the tree , saying to him , 'Eat not of it else of death you shall die . 
Now , then , if I deceive him to do this thing , and to marry Eve without God's permission , God will kill him then . 
Therefore Satan worked this apparition before Adam and Eve because he sought to kill him , and to make him disappear from off the face of the earth . 
Meanwhile the fire of sin came over Adam , and he thought of committing sin . 
But he restrained himself , fearing that if he followed this advice of Satan , God would put him to death . 
Then Adam and Eve went back to the Cave of Treasures , as they usually did about evening time . 
And they both got up and prayed to God that night . 
Adam remained standing in prayer , yet not knowing how to pray , by reason of the thoughts in his heart regarding his marrying Eve and he continued so until morning . 
For those devils have set my heart on fire , with thoughts of what they showed us , in their sinful apparitions . 
Command us , O God , not to give way to them without Your permission , for fear that You will turn us into nothing . 
Because if you do not give us permission , we shall be overpowered , and follow that advice of Satan and You will again make us perish . 
If not , then take our souls from us let us be rid of this animal lust . 
And if You give us no order respecting this thing , then sever Eve from me , and me from her and place us each far away from the other . 
Yet if it is not each of us towards the other , it will , at all events , be through their appearance when the devils come to us in our likeness . 
Here Adam ended his prayer . 
Chapter LXXIII The marriage of Adam and Eve . 
Then God considered the words of Adam that they were true , and that he could long await His order , respecting the counsel of Satan . 
Adam obeyed the angels , and took the gold and put it into Eve's bosom in her garment and promised to marry her with his hand . 
Then both Adam and Eve received the words of the angels and the angels departed from them . 
Then Adam and Eve began to fast and pray , until the end of the forty days and then they had sexual intercourse , as the angels had told them . 
And from the time Adam left the garden until he wedded Eve , were two hundred and twenty three days , that is seven months and thirteen days . 
Thus was Satan's war with Adam defeated . 
Chapter LXXIV The birth of Cain and Luluwa . 
Why they received those names . 
It is not appropriate then , that I should give birth in it . 
Adam then took Eve to that cave . 
When the time came for her to give birth , she strained a lot . 
And God looked at His maid servant Eve , and delivered her , and she gave birth to her first born son , and with him a daughter . 
The Adam rejoiced at Eve's deliverance , and also over the children she had borne him . 
And Adam ministered to Eve in the cave , until the end of eight days when they named the son Cain , and the daughter Luluwa . 
The meaning of Cain is hater , because he hated his sister in their mother's womb before they came out of it . 
Therefore Adam named him Cain . 
But Luluwa means beautiful , because she was more beautiful than her mother . 
And Eve said , We will make one offering for the first born son and then later we shall make one for the daughter . 
Chapter LXXV The family revisits the Cave of Treasures . 
Birth of Abel and Aklia . 
Then Adam prepared an offering , and he and Eve offered it up for their children , and brought it to the altar they had built at first . 
And Adam offered up the offering , and asked God to accept his offering . 
Then God accepted Adam's offering , and sent a light from heaven that shown on the offering . 
Adam and his son drew near to the offering , but Eve and the daughter did not approach it . 
Adam and his son were joyful as they came down from on the altar . 
Adam and Eve waited until the daughter was eighty days old , then Adam prepared an offering and took it to Eve and to the children . 
They went to the altar , where Adam offered it up , as he was accustomed , asking the Lord to accept his offering . 
And the Lord accepted the offering of Adam and Eve . 
Then Adam , Eve , and the children , drew near together , and came down from the mountain , rejoicing . 
But after they had been blessed with these tokens , they went back to the cave in which they were born . 
Adam washed his body and Eve hers also clean , after the suffering and distress that had come over them . 
Adam and Eve did this until the children had been weaned . 
After they were weaned , Adam made an offering for the souls of his children in addition to the three times every week he made an offering for them . 
When the children were weaned , Eve again conceived , and when her pregnancy came to term , she gave birth to another son and daughter . 
They named the son Abel and the daughter Aklia . 
He brought them to the Cave of Treasures , where they received a blessing , and then returned to the cave where they were born . 
After these children were born , Eve stopped having children . 
Chapter LXXVI Cain becomes jealous of Abel because of his sisters . 
And the children began to grow stronger and taller but Cain was hard hearted , and ruled over his younger brother . 
Often when his father made an offering , Cain would remain behind and not go with them , to offer up . 
But , as to Abel , he had a meek heart , and was obedient to his father and mother . 
He frequently moved them to make an offering , because he loved it . 
He prayed and fasted a lot . 
Then came this sign to Abel . 
And Abel felt deeply about what his father told him . 
Furthermore his father , Adam , told him of the works of God , and of the garden . 
After hearing that , Abel remained behind after his father left and stayed the whole of that night in the Cave of Treasures . 
But as for Abel , he prayed to God , and drove away Satan from him and did not believe the words of the devil . 
For , look , the Lord had accepted your prayer . 
Be not afraid of the figure which appeared to you in the night , and who cursed you to death . 
And the angel departed from him . 
Then when it was day , Abel came to Adam and Eve , and told them of the vision he had seen . 
When they heard it , they grieved much over it , but said nothing to him about it they only comforted him . 
However , they wish to join you in marriage to his ugly sister , because they hate you . 
Now before they do that , I am telling you that you should kill your brother . 
That way your sister will be left for you , and his sister will be cast away . 
And Satan departed from him . 
But the devil remained behind in Cain's heart , and frequently aspired to kill his brother . 
Chapter LXXVII Cain , years old , and Abel years old , grow apart . 
He said also to Abel , Take some of your sowing and make an offering and bring it to God , so that He might forgive you for your wickedness and sin . 
And they went , Adam and Eve with him , and they showed him how to offer up his gift on the altar . 
Then after that , they stood up and prayed that God would accept Abel's offering . 
Then God looked at Abel and accepted his offering . 
And God was more pleased with Abel than with his offering , because of his good heart and pure body . 
There was no trace of guile in him . 
Then they came down from the altar , and went to the cave in which they lived . 
But Abel , by reason of his joy at having made his offering , repeated it three times a week , after the example of his father Adam . 
But as to Cain , he did not want to make an offering , but after his father became very angry , he offered up a gift once . 
He took the smallest of his sheep for an offering and when he offered it up , his eyes were on the lamb . 
Therefore God did not accept his offering , because his heart was full of murderous thoughts . 
And they all thus lived together in the cave in which Eve had brought forth , until Cain was fifteen years old , and Abel twelve years old . 
Chapter LXXVIII Jealousy overcomes Cain . 
He makes trouble in the family . 
How the first murder was planned . 
Then Adam said to Eve , Behold the children are grown up we must think of finding wives for them . 
Then Eve answered , How can we do it ? Then Adam said to her , We will join Abel's sister in marriage to Cain , and Cain's sister to Abel . 
The said Eve to Adam , I do not like Cain because he is hard hearted but let them stay with us until we offer up to the Lord in their behalf . 
And Adam said no more . 
But if it was not that I love you , I would not have told you this thing . 
At these words of Satan Cain opened his ears , and leaned towards his speech . 
Then when Adam came , she told him of what Cain had done . 
But Adam grieved and held his peace , and said not a word . 
They both obeyed their father Adam , and they took their offerings , and offered them up on the mountain by the altar . 
But as for Abel , he set up stones that were near at hand , and on that , he offered up his gift with a heart humble and free from guile . 
But he remained standing over against the altar , out of humor and meanness , looking towards his brother Abel , to see if God would accept his offering or not . 
And Abel prayed to God to accept his offering . 
Then a divine fire came down and consumed his offering . 
And God smelled the sweet savor of his offering because Abel loved Him and rejoice in Him . 
But Cain was looking on all that took place at his brother's offering , and was angry because of it . 
Then he opened his mouth and blasphemed God , because He had not accepted his offering . 
But God said to cain , Why do you look sad ? Be righteous , that I may accept your offering . 
Not against Me have you murmured , but against yourself . 
And God said this to Cain in rebuke , and because He abhorred him and his offering . 
And Cain came down from the altar , his color changed and with a sad face , and came to his father and mother and told them all that had befallen him . 
And Adam grieved much because God had not accepted Cain's offering . 
But Abel came down rejoicing , and with a gladsome heart , and told his father and mother how God had accepted his offering . 
And they rejoiced at it and kissed his face . 
But when Adam heard this he was very sorry , because it was the altar he had built at first , and on which he had offered his own gifts . 
When Cain heard these words of Satan , he was filled with rage and he let no one know . 
Then Abel consented to go with his brother Cain into the field . 
But before going out , Cain said to Abel , Wait for me , until I fetch a staff , because of wild beasts . 
Then Abel stood waiting in his innocence . 
But Cain , the forward , fetched a staff and went out . 
And they began , Cain and his brother Abel , to walk in the way Cain talking to him , and comforting him , to make him forget everything . 
Chapter LXXIX A wicked plan is carried to a tragic conclusion . 
Am I my brother's keeper ? The seven punishments . 
Then went Abel forward , but Cain remained behind him . 
And Abel was walking in his innocence , without guile not believing his brother would kill him . 
But when Abel fell down on the ground , seeing that his brother meant to kill him , he said to Cain , O , my brother , have pity on me . 
And Cain repented not of what he had done . 
But the earth , when the blood of righteous Abel fell on it , trembled , as it drank his blood , and would have destroyed Cain because of it . 
And the blood of Abel cried mysteriously to God , to avenge him of his murderer . 
He then cast his brother into the pit he made , and covered him with dust . 
But the ground would not receive him but it threw him up at once . 
And so the earth mocked Cain , until the Word of God , came to him concerning his brother . 
For as to the word of God to Cain , Where is your brother ? God said it in mercy for him , to try and make him repent . 
And as to God saying to Cain , Cursed be the ground that has drunk the blood of your brother That also , was God's mercy on Cain . 
For God did not curse him , but He cursed the ground although it was not the ground that had killed Abel , and committed a wicked sin . 
And He said to him , Where is your brother ? To which he answered and said , I know not . 
Then the Creator said to him , Be trembling and quaking . 
Then Cain trembled and became terrified and through this sign did God make him an example before all the creation , as the murderer of his brother . 
And the seven punishments are the seven generations during which God awaited Cain for the murder of his brother . 
