The excitement of expectancy reigned upon each row of countenances , was visible in every attitude nay , seemed a part of the close , overheated atmosphere itself . 
But a glance forward at the object of this universal gaze would have sufficed to shatter both hypotheses . 
Here was neither a court of justice nor a tombola . 
Upon a closer inspection of the assemblage , there were a great many of these clergymen . 
A dozen or more dignified , and for the most part elderly , brethren sat grouped about the Bishop in the pulpit . 
There were very old men among these bent and decrepit veterans who had known Lorenzo Dow , and had been ordained by elders who remembered Francis Asbury and even Whitefield . 
It was almost a relief to note the relative smallness of their number , so plainly was it to be seen that they were not the men their forbears had been . 
They had a right to be proud of themselves , too . 
The pews in the first four rows of their church rented for one hundred dollars apiece quite up to the Presbyterian highwater mark and they now had almost abolished free pews altogether . 
The oyster suppers given by their Ladies' Aid Society in the basement of the church during the winter had established rank among the fashionable events in Tecumseh's social calendar . 
A comprehensive and satisfied perception of these advantages was uppermost in the minds of this local audience , as they waited for the Bishop to begin his reading . 
A change in persons must of course take place , for their present pastor had exhausted the three year maximum of the itinerant system , but there was needed much more than that . 
For a handsome and expensive church building like this , and with such a modern and go ahead congregation , it was simply a vital necessity to secure an attractive and fashionable preacher . 
That this state of things must be altered was clear . 
Big gatherings assembled evening after evening to hear the sermons of those selected to preach , and the church had been almost impossibly crowded at each of the three Sunday services . 
Opinions had naturally differed a good deal during the earlier stages of this scrutiny , but after last night's sermon there could be but one feeling . 
The man for Tecumseh was the Reverend Theron Ware . 
The choice was an admirable one , from points of view much more exalted than those of the local congregation . 
The bright faced , comely , and vivacious young woman in the second side pew was his wife and Tecumseh noted with approbation that she knew how to dress . 
There were really no two better or worthier people in the building than this young couple , who sat waiting along with the rest to hear their fate . 
Neither of them could maintain a satisfactory show of composure as the decisive moment approached . 
The vision of translation from poverty and obscurity to such a splendid post as this truly it was too dazzling for tranquil nerves . 
The tedious Bishop had at last begun to call his roll of names , and the good people of Tecumseh mentally ticked them off , one by one , as the list expanded . 
To these they listened but listlessly indifferent alike to the joy and to the dismay which he was scattering among the divines before him . 
The announcements were being doled out with stumbling hesitation . 
The Presiding Elders , whose work all this was , stared with gloomy and impersonal abstraction down upon the rows of blackcoated humanity spread before them . 
The ministers returned this fixed and perfunctory gaze with pale , set faces , only feebly masking the emotions which each new name stirred somewhere among them . 
The Bishop droned on laboriously , mispronouncing words and repeating himself as if he were reading a catalogue of unfamiliar seeds . 
First church of Tecumseh Brother Abram G. Tisdale ! There was no doubt about it ! These were actually the words that had been uttered . 
An echo of it reached the Bishop , and so confused him that he haltingly repeated the obnoxious line . 
Every local eye turned as by intuition to where the calamitous Tisdale sat , and fastened malignantly upon him . 
He had been withdrawn from routine service for a number of years , doing a little insurance canvassing on his own account , and also travelling for the Book Concern . 
This did not happen to be true , but indignant Tecumseh gave it entire credit . 
The throngs about the doors dwindled as by magic , and the aisles cleared . 
Local interest was dead and even some of the pewholders rose and made their way out . 
One of these murmured audibly to his neighbors as he departed that HIS pew could be had now for sixty dollars . 
So it happened that when , a little later on , the appointment of Theron Ware to Octavius was read out , none of the people of Tecumseh either noted or cared . 
They had been deeply interested in him so long as it seemed likely that he was to come to them before their clearly expressed desire for him had been so monstrously ignored . 
But now what became of him was no earthly concern of theirs . 
He smiled broadly upon them with half closed eyes , and shook hands again . 
Perhaps ah perhaps they ARE jest a trifle close in money matters , but they come out strong on revivals . 
Brother Ware smiled faintly in decorous response , and bowed in silence but his wife resented the unctuous beaming of content on the other's wide countenance , and could not restrain her tongue . 
You seem to bear up tolerably well under this heavy cross , as you call it , she said sharply . 
The circumstance that he was to get an additional three hundred dollars yearly in his new place was not mentioned between them . 
The wife had taken her husband's arm , and pressed closely upon it as they walked . 
For a time no word passed , but finally he said , in a grave voice , It is hard upon you , poor girl . 
Then she stopped short , buried her face against his shoulder , and fell to sobbing . 
I couldn't keep it in a minute longer ! she said , catching her breath between phrases . 
Oh , WHY do they behave so badly to us , Theron ? He smiled down momentarily upon her as they moved along , and patted her hand . 
Somebody must have the poor places , Alice , he said consolingly . 
I am a young man yet , remember . 
We must take our turn , and be patient . 
For 'we know that all things work together for good . 
And your sermon was so head and shoulders above all the others ! she went on breathlessly . 
Why , Theron , they tell me it's a worse place even than we've got now ! Oh , not at all , he put in reassuringly . 
It has grown to be a large town oh , quite twice the size of Tyre . 
It's a great Irish place , I've heard . 
Our own church seems to be a good deal run down there . 
We must build it up again and the salary is better a little . 
But he too was depressed , and they walked on toward their temporary lodging in a silence full of mutual grief . 
Oh , don't , Theron ! she said hastily . 
The bright flood of May morning sunshine completely enveloped her girlish form , clad in a simple , fresh starched calico gown , and shone in golden patches upon her light brown hair . 
She had a smile on her face , as she looked down at the milk boy standing on the bottom step a smile of a doubtful sort , stormily mirthful . 
Come out a minute , Theron ! she called again and in obedience to the summons the tall lank figure of her husband appeared in the open doorway behind her . 
A long loose , open dressing gown dangled to his knees , and his sallow , clean shaven , thoughtful face wore a morning undress expression of youthful good nature . 
He leaned against the door sill , crossed his large carpet slippers , and looked up into the sky , drawing a long satisfied breath . 
What a beautiful morning ! he exclaimed . 
The elms over there are full of robins . 
We must get up earlier these mornings , and take some walks . 
His wife indicated the boy with the milk pail on his arm , by a wave of her hand . 
Guess what he tells me ! she said . 
It wasn't a mistake at all , our getting no milk yesterday or the Sunday before . 
It seems that that's the custom here , at least so far as the parsonage is concerned . 
What's the matter , boy ? asked the young minister , drawling his words a little , and putting a sense of placid irony into them . 
Don't the cows give milk on Sunday , then ? The boy was not going to be chaffed . 
Oh , I'll bring you milk fast enough on Sundays , if you give me the word , he said with nonchalance . 
Only it won't last long . 
How do you mean 'won't last long' ? , asked Mrs. Ware , briskly . 
The boy liked her both for herself , and for the doughnuts fried with her own hands , which she gave him on his morning round . 
He dropped his half defiant tone . 
The thing of it's this , he explained . 
Every new minister starts in saying we can deliver to this house on Sundays , an' then gives us notice to stop before the month's out . 
It's the trustees that does it . 
Theron Ware uncrossed his feet and moved out on to the stoop beside his wife . 
What's that you say ? he interjected . 
Don't THEY take milk on Sundays ? Nope ! answered the boy . 
The young couple looked each other in the face for a puzzled moment , then broke into a laugh . 
Well , we'll try it , anyway , said the preacher . 
You can go on bringing it Sundays till till Till you cave in an' tell me to stop , put in the boy . 
All right ! and he was off on the instant , the dipper jangling loud incredulity in his pail as he went . 
The Wares exchanged another glance as he disappeared round the corner of the house , and another mutual laugh seemed imminent . 
Then the wife's face clouded over , and she thrust her under lip a trifle forward out of its place in the straight and gently firm profile . 
It's just what Wendell Phillips said , she declared . 
'The Puritan's idea of hell is a place where everybody has to mind his own business . 
The young minister stroked his chin thoughtfully , and let his gaze wander over the backyard in silence . 
The door of the tenantless chicken coop hung wide open . 
It was pleasanter to lift the eyes , and look across the neighbors' fences to the green , waving tops of the elms on the street beyond . 
Theron lifted his thin , long fingered hand , and passed it in a slow arch of movement to comprehend this glorious upper picture . 
The wife followed his gesture , and her eyes rested for a brief moment , with pleased interest , upon the trees and the sky . 
Then they reverted , with a harsher scrutiny , to the immediate foreground . 
Those Van Sizers ought to be downright ashamed of themselves , she said , to leave everything in such a muss as this . 
You MUST see about getting a man to clean up the yard , Theron . 
It's no use your thinking of doing it yourself . 
In the first place , it wouldn't look quite the thing , and , second , you'd never get at it in all your born days . 
Or if a man would cost too much , we might get a boy . 
I daresay Harvey would come around , after he'd finished with his milk route in the forenoon . 
We could give him his dinner , you know , and I'd bake him some cookies . 
He's got the greatest sweet tooth you ever heard of . 
And then perhaps if we gave him a quarter , or say half a dollar , he'd be quite satisfied . 
I'll speak to him in the morning . 
We can save a dollar or so that way . 
I suppose every little does help , commented Mr. Ware , with a doleful lack of conviction . 
I tell you what let's do ! he exclaimed . 
Get on your street dress , and we'll take a long walk , way out into the country . 
You've never seen the basin , where they float the log rafts in , or the big sawmills . 
So they are ! assented the young minister , with something like a sigh . 
He cast another reluctant , lingering glance at the sunlit elm boughs , and , turning , went indoors . 
He saw nothing which he wanted to read . 
This was his third charge this Octavius which they both knew they were going to dislike so much . 
The first had been in the pleasant dairy and hop country many miles to the south , on another watershed and among a different kind of people . 
Of course , he admitted to himself , it would not be the same if he were to go back there again . 
It was there too that the crowning blessedness of his youth nay , should he not say of all his days ? had come to him . 
She was fresh from the refinements of a town seminary she read books it was known that she could play upon the piano . 
Theron Ware , in truth , left this first pastorate of his the following spring , in a transfiguring halo of romance . 
The good people among whom he had begun his ministry took kindly credit to themselves that he had met his bride while she was visiting round their countryside . 
Of the three years' term in Tyre , it was pleasantest to dwell upon the beginning . 
The impulse of reaction from the rather grim cheerlessness of their wedding lent fresh gayety to their lighthearted , whimsical start at housekeeping . 
Theron , indeed , might be said never to have laughed before . 
He began by laughing because she laughed , and grew by swift stages to comprehend , then frankly to share , her amusement . 
From this it seemed only a step to the development of a humor of his own , doubling , as it were , their sportive resources . 
This happy and good young couple took the affections of Tyre by storm . 
But the Wares changed all this . 
Within a month the report of Theron's charm and force in the pulpit was crowding the church building to its utmost capacity and that , too , with some of Tyre's best people . 
Equally winning was the atmosphere of jollity and juvenile high spirits which pervaded the parsonage under these new conditions , and which Theron and Alice seemed to diffuse wherever they went . 
Thus swimmingly their first year sped , amid universal acclaim . 
Mrs. Ware had a recognized social place , quite outside the restricted limits of Methodism , and shone in it with an unflagging brilliancy altogether beyond the traditions of Tyre . 
As for Theron , the period was one of incredible fructification and output . 
He could not look without blinking timidity at the radiance of the path stretched out before him , leading upward to dazzling heights of greatness . 
At the end of this first year the Wares suddenly discovered that they were eight hundred dollars in debt . 
The second year was spent in arriving , by slow stages and with a cruel wealth of pathetic detail , at a realization of what being eight hundred dollars in debt meant . 
It was not in their elastic and buoyant natures to grasp the full significance of the thing at once , or easily . 
Their position in the social structure , too , was all against clear sightedness in material matters . 
The Wares at the outset had thought it right to trade as exclusively as possible with members of their own church society . 
This loyalty became a principal element of martyrdom . 
Theron had his creditors seated in serried rows before him , Sunday after Sunday . 
Alice had her critics consolidated among those whom it was her chief duty to visit and profess friendship for . 
These situations now began , by regular gradations , to unfold their terrors . 
At the first intimation of discontent , the Wares made what seemed to them a sweeping reduction in expenditure . 
When they heard that Brother Potter had spoken of them as poor pay , they dismissed their hired girl . 
They never laughed now , and even smiles grew rare . 
By this time Theron's sermons , preached under that stony glare of people to whom he owed money , had degenerated to a pitiful level of commonplace . 
As a consequence , the attendance became once more confined to the insufficient membership of the church , and the trustees complained of grievously diminished receipts . 
When the Wares , grown desperate , ventured upon the experiment of trading outside the bounds of the congregation , the trustees complained again , this time peremptorily . 
Thus the second year dragged itself miserably to an end . 
The worst has been told . 
Beginning in utter blackness , this third year , in the second month , brought a change as welcome as it was unlooked for . 
As he put the suggestion , they could find no excuse for rejecting it . 
He had watched them , and heard a good deal about them , and took a fatherly sort of interest in them . 
As this amazing windfall finally took shape , it enabled the Wares to live respectably through the year , and to leave Tyre with something over one hundred dollars in hand . 
It enabled them , too , to revive in a chastened form their old dream of ultimate success and distinction for Theron . 
He had demonstrated clearly enough to himself , during that brief season of unrestrained effulgence , that he had within him the making of a great pulpit orator . 
He set to work now , with resolute purpose , to puzzle out and master all the principles which underlie this art , and all the tricks that adorn its superstructure . 
He studied it , fastened his thoughts upon it , talked daily with Alice about it . 
He put aside , as well the thought of attracting once more the non Methodists of Tyre , whose early enthusiasm had spread such pitfalls for his unwary feet . 
He practised effects now by piecemeal , with an alert ear , and calculation in every tone . 
An ambition , at once embittered and tearfully solicitous , possessed him . 
The opportunity had been given him , there at the Tecumseh Conference , to reveal his quality . 
He had risen to its full limit of possibilities , and preached a great sermon in a manner which he at least knew was unapproachable . 
Alice had taken it hard , but he himself was conscious of a sense of spiritual gain . 
The influence of the Conference , with its songs and seasons of prayer and high pressure of emotional excitement , was still strong upon him . 
It seemed years and years since the religious side of him had been so stirred into motion . 
The ministry to souls diseased beckoned him with a new and urgent significance . 
It amazed him now to recall that he had taken this hint seriously , and even gone to the length of finding out what books law students began upon . 
Thank God ! all that was past and gone now . 
He closed his eyes , to be the more wholly alone with the Spirit , that moved him . 
The jangling of a bell in the hallway broke sharply upon his meditations , and on the instant his wife thrust in her head from the kitchen . 
You'll have to go to the door , Theron ! she warned him , in a loud , swift whisper . 
I'm not fit to be seen . 
All right , he said , and rose slowly from sprawling recumbency to his feet . 
He's got a soft side somewhere . 
And just keep a stiff upper lip about the gas , and don't you let them jew you down a solitary cent on that sidewalk . 
All right , said Theron , again , and moved reluctantly toward the hall door . 
CHAPTER III When the three trustees had been shown in by the Rev . 
Mr. Ware , and had taken seats , an awkward little pause ensued . 
The young minister looked doubtingly from one face to another , the while they glanced with inquiring interest about the room , noting the pictures and appraising the furniture in their minds . 
Mr. Pierce's face did not know how to smile what was the use of smiles ? but its whole surface radiated secretiveness . 
The amateurs would have been wrong again . 
But Octavius watched him shamble along its sidewalks quite as the Vienna of dead and forgotten yesterday might have watched Metternich . 
The third trustee , Levi Gorringe , set one wondering at the very first glance what on earth he was doing in that company . 
Those who had known him longest had the least notion but it may be added that no one knew him well . 
He was a lawyer , and had lived in Octavius for upwards of ten years that is to say , since early manhood . 
He had an office on the main street , just under the principal photograph gallery . 
About every other day he went off after breakfast into the country roundabout , sometimes with a rod , sometimes with a gun , but always alone . 
He was a bachelor , and slept in a room at the back of his office , cooking some of his meals himself , getting others at a restaurant close by . 
Though he had little visible practice , he was understood to be well to do and even more , and people tacitly inferred that he shaved notes . 
The Methodists of Octavius looked upon him as a queer fish , and through nearly a dozen years had never quite outgrown their hebdomadal tendency to surprise at seeing him enter their church . 
Nothing could convince some of the elder sisters that he was not a drinking man . 
The three visitors had completed their survey of the room now and Loren Pierce emitted a dry , harsh little cough , as a signal that business was about to begin . 
At this sound , Winch drew up his feet , and Gorringe untied a parcel of account books and papers that he held on his knee . 
Theron felt that his countenance must be exhibiting to the assembled brethren an unfortunate sense of helplessness in their hands . 
He tried to look more resolute , and forced his lips into a smile . 
Brother Gorringe allus acts as Seckertary , said Erastus Winch , beaming broadly upon the minister , as if the mere mention of the fact promoted jollity . 
That's it , Brother Gorringe , take your seat at Brother Ware's desk . 
Mind the Dominie's pen don't play tricks on you , an' start off writin' out sermons instid of figgers . 
The humorist turned to Theron as the lawyer walked over to the desk at the window . 
I allus have to caution him about that , he remarked with great joviality . 
An' do YOU look out afterwards , Brother Ware , or else you'll catch that pen o' yours scribblin' lawyer's lingo in place o' the Word . 
Theron felt bound to exhibit a grin in acknowledgment of this pleasantry . 
The lawyer's change of position had involved some shifting of the others' chairs , and the young minister found himself directly confronted by Brother Pierce's hard and colorless old visage . 
Its little eyes were watching him , as through a mask , and under their influence the smile of politeness fled from his lips . 
The lawyer on his right , the cheese buyer to the left , seemed to recede into distance as he for the moment returned the gaze of the quarryman . 
He waited now for him to speak , as if the others were of no importance . 
We are a plain sort o' folks up in these parts , said Brother Pierce , after a slight further pause . 
His voice was as dry and rasping as his cough , and its intonations were those of authority . 
We walk here , he went on , eying the minister with a sour regard , in a meek an' humble spirit , in the straight an' narrow way which leadeth unto life . 
We ain't gone traipsin' after strange gods , like some people that call themselves Methodists in other places . 
We stick by the Discipline an' the ways of our fathers in Israel . 
No new fangled notions can go down here . 
Your wife'd better take them flowers out of her bunnit afore next Sunday . 
Silence possessed the room for a few moments , the while Theron , pale faced and with brows knit , studied the pattern of the ingrain carpet . 
Then he lifted his head , and nodded it in assent . 
Yes , he said we will do nothing by which our 'brother stumbleth , or is offended , or is made weak . 
Brother Pierce's parchment face showed no sign of surprise or pleasure at this easy submission . 
Another thing We don't want no book learnin' or dictionary words in our pulpit , he went on coldly . 
Some folks may stomach 'em we won't . 
Them two sermons o' yours , p'r'aps they'd do down in some city place but they're like your wife's bunnit here , they're too flowery to suit us . 
What we want to hear is the plain , old fashioned Word of God , without any palaver or 'hems and ha's . 
They tell me there's some parts where hell's treated as played out where our ministers don't like to talk much about it because people don't want to hear about it . 
Such preachers ought to be put out . 
They ain't Methodists at all . 
What we want here , sir , is straight out , flat footed hell the burnin' lake o' fire an' brim stone . 
Pour it into 'em , hot an' strong . 
We can't have too much of it . 
Theron's tongue dallied for an instant with the temptation to comment upon these old wife fables , which were so dear to the rural religious heart when he and I were boys . 
But it seemed wiser to only nod again , and let his mentor go on . 
We ain't had no trouble with the Free Methodists here , continued Brother Pierce , jest because we kept to the old paths , an' seek for salvation in the good old way . 
Everybody can shout Amen ! as loud and as long as the Spirit moves him , with us . 
Some one was sayin' you thought we ought to have a choir and an organ . 
No , sirree ! No such tom foolery for us ! You'll only stir up feelin' agin yourself by hintin' at such things . 
And then , too , our folks don't take no stock in all that pack o' nonsense about science , such as tellin' the age of the earth by crackin' up stones . 
I shouldn't wonder if them kind did have some monkey blood in 'em . 
You'll find we're a different sort here . 
The young minister preserved silence for a little , until it became apparent that the old trustee had had his say out . 
Even then he raised his head slowly , and at last made answer in a hesitating and irresolute way You have been very frank , he said . 
I am obliged to you . 
I feel it to be of especial value in this case , because I am young in years and in my ministry , and am conscious of a great weakness of the flesh . 
I can see how daily contact with a people so attached to the old , simple , primitive Methodism of Wesley and Asbury may be a source of much strength to me . 
Whatever Brother Pierce says , goes ! he declared . 
The lawyer , sitting behind at the desk by the window , said nothing . 
The place is jest overrun with Irish , Brother Pierce began again . 
They've got two Catholic churches here now to our one , and they do jest as they blamed please at the Charter elections . 
It'd be a good idee to pitch into Catholics in general whenever you can . 
You could make a hit that way . 
I say the State ought to make 'em pay taxes on their church property . 
They've no right to be exempted , because they ain't Christians at all . 
They're idolaters , that's what they are ! I know 'em ! I've had 'em in my quarries for years , an' they ain't got no idee of decency or fair dealin' . 
Every time the price of stone went up , every man of 'em would jine to screw more wages out o' me . 
It's my belief their priests put 'em up to it . 
People don't begin to reelize that church of idolatry 'll be the ruin o' this country , if it ain't checked in time . 
Jest you go at 'em hammer 'n' tongs ! I've got Eyetalians in the quarries now . 
They're sensible fellows they know when they're well off a dollar a day , an' they're satisfied , an' everything goes smooth . 
But they're Catholics , the same as the Irish , suddenly interjected the lawyer , from his place by the window . 
Theron pricked up his ears at the sound of his voice . 
There was an anti Pierce note in it , so to speak , which it did him good to hear . 
The consciousness of sympathy began on the instant to inspire him with courage . 
I know some people SAY they are , Brother Pierce guardedly retorted but I've summered an' wintered both kinds , an' I hold to it they're different . 
I grant ye , the Eyetalians ARE some given to jabbin' knives into each other , but they never git up strikes , an' they don't grumble about wages . 
The lawyer ostentatiously drew up his chair to the desk , and began turning over the leaves of his biggest book . 
It's getting on toward noon , gentlemen , he said , in an impatient voice . 
The business meeting which followed was for a considerable time confined to hearing extracts from the books and papers read in a swift and formal fashion by Mr. Gorringe . 
If this was intended to inform the new pastor of the exact financial situation in Octavius , it lamentably failed of its purpose . 
Theron had little knowledge of figures and though he tried hard to listen , and to assume an air of comprehension , he did not understand much of what he heard . 
In a general way he gathered that the church property was put down at , , on which there was a debt of , . 
The annual expenses were , , of which the principal items were for his salary , for the rent of the parsonage , and for interest on the debt . 
Our women folks ain't that kind , he said . 
They did try to hold a sociable once , but nobody came , and we didn't raise more 'n three or four dollars . 
They lack the worldly arts . 
As the Discipline commands , they avoid the evil of putting on gold and costly apparel , and taking such diversions as cannot be used in the name of the Lord Jesus . 
Well of course if you prefer the 'debt raiser' Theron began , and took the itemized account from Gorringe's knee as an excuse for not finishing the hateful sentence . 
, It was no news to him that the three mortgages on the church property were held by the three trustees . 
But as he looked once more , another feature of the thing struck him as curious . 
I notice that the rates of interest vary , he remarked without thinking , and then wished the words unsaid , for the two trustees in view moved uneasily on their seats . 
Oh , that's nothing , exclaimed Erastus Winch , with a boisterous display of jollity . 
It's only Brother Gorringe's pleasant little way of making a contribution to our funds . 
You will notice that , at the date of all these mortgages , the State rate of interest was seven per cent . 
Since then it's b'en lowered to six . 
But Brother Pierce an' me , we talked it over , an' we made up our minds we were tied hand an' foot by our contract . 
You know how strong the Discipline lays it down that we must be bound to the letter of our agreements . 
That bein' so , we seen it in the light of duty not to change what we'd set our hands to . 
That's how it is , Brother Ware . 
I understand , said Theron , with an effort at polite calmness of tone . 
Have we any other business before us ? Brother Pierce's little eyes snapped , and the wrinkles in his forehead deepened angrily . 
Yes , plenty of it . 
We've got to reduce expenses . 
We're nigh onto behind hand this minute . 
Besides your house rent , you get free an' clear that is . 
every week , an' only you an' your wife to keep out of it . 
Why , when I was your age , young man , and after that too , I was glad to get a week . 
I don't think my salary is under discussion , Mr. Pierce BROTHER Pierce ! suggested Winch , in a half shuckling undertone . 
Brother Pierce , then ! echoed Theron , impatiently . 
The Quarterly Conference and the Estimating Committee deal with that . 
The trustees have no more to do with it than the man in the moon . 
Come , come , Brother Ware , put in Erastus Winch , we mustn't have no hard feelin's . 
Brotherly love is what we're all lookin' after . 
F'r instance , there's the new sidewalk we had to lay in front of the house here only a month ago . 
Of course , if the treasury was flush we wouldn't say a word about it . 
An' then there's the gas bill here . 
Seein' as you get your rent for nothin' , it don't seem much to ask that you should see to lightin' the place yourself . 
No , I don't think that either is a proper charge upon me , interposed Theron . 
I decline to pay them . 
We can have the gas shut off , remarked Brother Pierce , coldly . 
As soon as you like , responded the minister , sitting erect and tapping the carpet nervously with his foot . 
Only you must understand that I will take the whole matter to the Quarterly Conference in July . 
I already see a good many other interesting questions about the financial management of this church which might be appropriately discussed there . 
Oh , come , Brother Ware ! broke in Trustee Winch , with a somewhat agitated assumption of good feeling . 
Surely these are matters we ought to settle amongst ourselves . 
We never yet asked outsiders to meddle with our business here . 
It's our motto , Brother Ware . 
I say , if you've got a motto , stand by it . 
Well , my motto , said Theron , is to be behaved decently to by those with whom I have to deal and I also propose to stand by it . 
Brother Pierce rose gingerly to his feet , with the hesitation of an old man not sure about his knees . 
When he had straightened himself , he put on his hat , and eyed the minister sternly from beneath its brim . 
I guess you won't last here more 'n a twelvemonth . 
He pulled his soft and discolored old hat down over his brows with a significantly hostile nod , and , turning , stumped toward the hall door without offering to shake hands . 
The other trustees had risen likewise , in tacit recognition that the meeting was over . 
Winch clasped the minister's hand in his own broad , hard palm , and squeezed it in an exuberant grip . 
My love to Sister Ware and he followed the senior trustee into the hall . 
Mr. Gorringe had been tying up his books and papers . 
He came now with the bulky parcel under his arm , and his hat and stick in the other hand . 
He could give little but his thumb to Theron to shake . 
His face wore a grave expression , and not a line relaxed as , catching the minister's look , he slowly covered his left eye in a deliberate wink . 
Well ? and how did it go off ? asked Alice , from where she knelt by the oven door , a few minutes later . 
For answer , Theron threw himself wearily into the big old farm rocking chair on the other side of the stove , and shook his head with a lengthened sigh . 
If it wasn't for that man Gorringe of yours , he said dejectedly , I think I should feel like going off and learning a trade . 
Chapter IV On the following Sunday , young Mrs. Ware sat alone in the preacher's pew through the morning service , and everybody noted that the roses had been taken from her bonnet . 
He answered their inquiries civilly enough , but with brevity she had stayed at home because she did not feel like coming out this and nothing more . 
The congregation dispersed under a gossip laden cloud of consciousness that there must be something queer about Sister Ware . 
There was a tolerably general agreement , however , that the two sermons of the day had been excellent . 
Theron himself comprehended that he had pleased the bulk of his auditors the knowledge left him curiously hot and cold . 
On the one hand , there was joy in the apparent prospect that the congregation would back him up in a stand against the trustees , if worst came to worst . 
But , on the other hand , the bonnet episode entered his soul . 
It had been a source of bitter humiliation to him to see his wife sitting there beneath the pulpit , shorn by despotic order of the adornments natural to her pretty head . 
But he had even greater pain in contemplating the effect it had produced on Alice herself . 
She had said not a word on the subject , but her every glance and gesture seemed to him eloquent of deep feeling about it . 
He made sure that she blamed him for having defended his own gas and sidewalk rights with successful vigor , but permitted the sacrifice of her poor little inoffensive roses without a protest . 
In this view of the matter , indeed , he blamed himself . 
Without lifting her eyes from the paper , she answered that she had no earthly desire to wear roses in her bonnet , and went on with her reading . 
Formerly her merry temper had always ignited at the merest spark of gayety . 
Now she gave his jokes only a dutiful half smile , and uttered scarcely a word in response to his running fire of talk . 
When the meal was finished , she went silently to work to clear away the dishes . 
Theron turned over in his mind the project of offering to help her , as he had done so often in those dear old days when they laughingly began life together . 
Something decided this project in the negative for him , and after lingering moments he put on his hat and went out for a walk . 
Not even the most doleful and trying hour of his bitter experience in Tyre had depressed him like this . 
He said aloud to himself as he walked that life would be an intolerable curse if Alice were to cease sharing it with him in every conceivable phase . 
All at once he stopped short , lifted his head , and looked about him . 
The broad valley lay warm and tranquil in the May sunshine at his feet . 
In the thicket up the side hill above him a gray squirrel was chattering shrilly , and the birds sang in a tireless choral confusion . 
Theron smiled , and drew a long breath . 
The gay clamor of the woodland songsters , the placid radiance of the landscape , were suddenly taken in and made a part of his new mood . 
He listened , smiled once more , and then started in a leisurely way back toward Octavius . 
How could he have been so ridiculous as to fancy that Alice his Alice had been changed into someone else ? He marvelled now at his own perverse folly . 
She was overworked tired out that was all . 
The task of moving in , of setting the new household to rights , had been too much for her . 
She must have a rest . 
They must get in a hired girl . 
Once this decision about a servant fixed itself in the young minister's mind , it drove out the last vestage of discomfort . 
He strode along now in great content , revolving idly a dozen different plans for gilding and beautifying this new life of leisure into which his sanguine thoughts projected Alice . 
One of these particularly pleased him , and waxed in definiteness as he turned it over and over . 
He would get another piano for her , in place of that which had been sacrificed in Tyre . 
He would stop in at the music store and see about it that very day . 
Of course , now that these important resolutions had been taken , it would be a good thing if he could do something to bring in some extra money . 
This was by no means a new notion . 
Latterly his fancy had been stimulated by reading an account of the profits which Canon Farrar had derived from his Life of Christ . 
If such a book could command such a bewildering multitude of readers , Theron felt there ought to be a chance for him . 
He had not , it is true , gone to the length of seriously considering what should be the subject of his book . 
That had not seemed to him to matter much , so long as it was scriptural . 
He realized now that the time for a selection had arrived , and almost simultaneously found himself with a ready made decision in his mind . 
The book should be about Abraham ! Theron Ware was extremely interested in the mechanism of his own brain , and followed its workings with a lively curiosity . 
The book was to be blessed from its very inception . 
In the centre of the group were four working men , bearing between them an extemporized litter of two poles and a blanket hastily secured across them with spikes . 
Most of what this litter held was covered by another blanket , rounded in coarse folds over a shapeless bulk . 
From beneath its farther end protruded a big broom like black beard , thrown upward at such an angle as to hide everything beyond to those in front . 
Its lips , of a dull lilac hue , were moving ceaselessly , and made a dry , clicking sound . 
Theron instinctively joined himself to those who followed the litter a motley dozen of street idlers , chiefly boys . 
They would have cared for him at Madden's house , but he had insisted upon being taken home . 
His name was MacEvoy , and he was Joey MacEvoy's father , and likewise Jim's and Hughey's and Martin's . 
A stout , middle aged , red armed woman , already warned by some messenger of calamity , stood waiting on the roadside bank . 
Mrs. MacEvoy herself made no moan , and her broad ruddy face was stern in expression rather than sorrowful . 
When the litter stopped beside her , she laid a hand for an instant on her husband's wet brow , and looked one could have sworn impassively into his staring eyes . 
Then , still without a word , she waved the bearers toward the door , and led the way herself . 
None of them paid any attention to him , or seemed to regard his presence there as unusual . 
Presently he saw enter through the sunlit street doorway a person of a different class . 
The bright light shone for a passing instant upon a fashionable , flowered hat , and upon some remarkably brilliant shade of red hair beneath it . 
In another moment there had edged along through the throng , to almost within touch of him , a tall young woman , the owner of this hat and wonderful hair . 
She was clad in light and pleasing spring attire , and carried a parasol with a long oxidized silver handle of a quaint pattern . 
She made a grave little inclination of her head toward him , and he bowed in response . 
Since her arrival , he noted , the chattering of the others had entirely ceased . 
I hope they won't feel that I have intruded . 
She nodded her head as if she quite understood . 
They'll take the will for the deed , she whispered back . 
Father Forbes will be here in a minute . 
Do you know is it too late ? Even as she spoke , the outer doorway was darkened by the commanding bulk of a newcomer's figure . 
The flash of a silk hat , and the deferential way in which the assembled neighbors fell back to clear a passage , made his identity clear . 
He carried in his hands , besides his hat , a small leather bound case . 
To this and to him the women courtesied and bowed their heads as he passed . 
Come with me , whispered the tall girl with the parasol to Theron and he found himself pushing along in her wake until they intercepted the priest just outside the bedroom door . 
She touched Father Forbes on the arm . 
Just to tell you that I am here , she said . 
The priest nodded with a grave face , and passed into the other room . 
In a minute or two the workmen , Mrs. MacEvoy , and her helper came out , and the door was shut behind them . 
He is making his confession , explained the young lady . 
Stay here for a minute . 
She moved over to where the woman of the house stood , glum faced and tearless , and whispered something to her . 
Some of those nearest this cleared space were kneeling now , and murmuring a low buzz of prayer to the click of beads on their rosaries . 
The door opened , and Theron saw the priest standing in the doorway with an uplifted hand . 
He wore now a surplice , with a purple band over his shoulders , and on his pale face there shone a tranquil and tender light . 
One of the workmen fetched from the stove a brand , lighted the two candles , and bore the table with its contents into the bedroom . 
It seemed to him that he had never really heard Latin before . 
Then the astonishing young woman with the red hair declaimed the CONFITEOR , vigorously and with a resonant distinctness of enunciation . 
It was a different Latin , harsher and more sonorous and while it still dominated the murmured undertone of the other's prayers , the last moment came . 
Theron had stood face to face with death at many other bedsides no other final scene had stirred him like this . 
He came out with the others at last the candles and the folded hands over the crucifix left behind and walked as one in a dream . 
He felt himself flushing under the idea that they would think he had waited for them was thrusting himself upon them . 
The notion prompted him to bow frigidly in response to Father Forbes' pleasant I am glad to meet you , sir , and his outstretched hand . 
I dropped in by the the merest accident , Theron said . 
The girl smiled placidly at him , the while she put up her parasol . 
It did me good to see you there , she said , quite as if she had known him all her life . 
And so it did the rest of us . 
Father Forbes permitted himself a soft little chuckle , approving rather than mirthful , and patted her on the shoulder with the air of being fifty years her senior instead of fifteen . 
To the minister's relief , he changed the subject as the three started together toward the road . 
Then , again , no doctor was sent for ! he exclaimed , as if resuming a familiar subject with the girl . 
Then he turned to Theron . 
I dare say you have no such trouble but with our poorer people it is very vexing . 
They will not call in a physician , but hurry off first for the clergyman . 
I don't know that it is altogether to avoid doctor's bills , but it amounts to that in effect . 
It was then that I made the rule . 
I hope , Mr. Ware , that Octavius is producing a pleasant impression upon you so far ? I scarcely know yet , answered Theron . 
The genial talk of the priest , with its whimsical anecdote , had in truth passed over his head . 
His mind still had room for nothing but that novel death bed scene , with the winged captain of the angelic host , the Baptist , the glorified Fisherman . 
and the Preacher , all being summoned down in the pomp of liturgical Latin to help MacEvoy to die . 
If you don't mind my saying so , he added hesitatingly , what I have just seen in there DID make a very powerful impression upon me . 
They all turn up Turanian if we probe far enough . 
Our ways separate here , I'm afraid . 
I am delighted to have made your acquaintance , Mr. Ware . 
Pray look in upon me , if you can as well as not . 
We are near neighbors , you know . 
Father Forbes had shaken hands , and moved off up another street some distance , before the voice of the girl recalled Theron to himself . 
Of course you knew HIM by name , she was saying , and he knew you by sight , and had talked of you but MY poor inferior sex has to be introduced . 
My father has the wagon shops , and I I play the organ at the church . 
I I am delighted to make your acquaintance , said Theron , conscious as he spoke that he had slavishly echoed the formula of the priest . 
He could think of nothing better to add than , Unfortunately , we have no organ in our church . 
The girl laughed , as they resumed their walk down the street . 
I'm afraid I couldn't undertake two , she said , and laughed again . 
Then she spoke more seriously . 
That ceremony must have interested you a good deal , never having seen it before . 
I saw that it was all new to you , and so I made bold to take you under my wing , so to speak . 
You were very kind , said the young minister . 
It was really a great experience for me . 
No it was only because MacEvoy was one of our workmen , and really came by his death through father sending him up to trim a tree . 
Ann MacEvoy will never forgive us that , the longest day she lives . 
Did you notice her ? She wouldn't speak to me . 
Celia Madden stopped in front of the largest and most important looking of these new edifices , and said , holding out her hand Here I am , once more . 
Good morning , Mr. Ware . 
Theron hoped that his manner did not betray the flash of surprise he felt in discovering that his new acquaintance lived in the biggest house in Octavius . 
It was stupid of him , of course , because she had herself mentioned her father . 
He looked at her again with an awkward smile , as he formally shook the gloved hand she gave him , and lifted his soft hat . 
He had not seen before how beautiful she was . 
She nodded in recognition of his salute , and moved up the lawn walk , spinning the sunshade on her shoulder . 
Though the parsonage was only three blocks away , the young minister had time to think about a good many things before he reached home . 
First of all , he had to revise in part the arrangement of his notions about the Irish . 
So far as personal acquaintance went , the Irish had been to him only a name . 
But what a sinister and repellent name ! His views on this general subject were merely those common to his communion and his environment . 
It is hardly too much to say that he had never encountered a dissenting opinion on this point . 
His boyhood had been spent in those bitter days when social , political , and blood prejudices were fused at white heat in the public crucible together . 
When , later on , he entered the ministry , the rule was still incredulous of exceptions . 
One might as well have looked in the Nedahma Conference for a divergence of opinion on the Trinity as for a difference in political conviction . 
Indeed , even among the laity , Theron could not feel sure that he had ever known a Democrat that is , at all closely . 
He understood very little about politics , it is true . 
Certainly his second reason , however , would have been that the Irish were on the other side . 
He had never before had occasion to formulate , even in his own thoughts , this tacit race and religious aversion in which he had been bred . 
It rose now suddenly in front of him , as he sauntered from patch to patch of sunlight under the elms , like some huge , shadowy , and symbolic monument . 
Theron stared this phantasm hard in the face , and recognized it for a very tolerable embodiment of what he had heretofore supposed he thought about the Irish . 
For an instant , the sight of it made him shiver , as if the sunny May had of a sudden lapsed back into bleak December . 
Then he smiled , and the bad vision went off into space . 
He caught himself on the very verge of feeling that heaven must have heard . 
At least the Irish , with all their faults , must have a poetic strain , or they would not have clung so tenaciously to those curious and ancient forms . 
He recalled having heard somewhere , or read , it might be , that they were a people much given to songs and music . 
Dangerous though some of its tendencies might be , there was no gainsaying the fact that a love for music was in the main an uplifting influence an attribute of cultivation . 
The world was the sweeter and more gentle for it . 
The midday dinner was a little more than ready when Theron reached home , and let himself in by the front door . 
Well ! I'd just about begun to reckon that I was a widow , said Alice , putting down her fragrant burden . 
There was such an obvious suggestion of propitiation in her tone that Theron went around and kissed her . 
He thought of saying something about keeping out of the way because it was Blue Monday , but held it back lest it should sound like a reproach . 
Oh , so so , replied Alice she seems to be particular , but she's mortal slow . 
If I hadn't stood right over her , we shouldn't have had the clothes out till goodness knows when . 
And of course she's Irish ! Well , what of THAT ? asked the minister , with a fine unconcern . 
Alice looked up from her plate , with knife and fork suspended in air . 
Why , you know we were talking only the other day of what a pity it was that none of our own people went out washing , she said . 
That Welsh woman we heard of couldn't come , after all and they say , too , that she presumes dreadfully upon the acquaintance , being a church member , you know . 
So we simply had to fall back on the Irish . 
And even if they do go and tell their priest everything they see and hear , why , there's one comfort , they can tell about US and welcome . 
Of course I see to it she doesn't snoop around in here . 
That's all nonsense about their telling such things to their priests , he said with easy confidence . 
Why , you told me so yourself , replied Alice , briskly . 
And I've always understood so , too they're bound to tell EVERYTHING in confession . 
That's what gives the Catholic Church such a tremendous hold . 
You've spoken of it often . 
It must have been by way of a figure of speech , remarked Theron , not with entire directness . 
Women are great hands to separate one's observations from their context , and so give them meanings quite unintended . 
They are also great hands , he added genially , or at least one of them is , at making the most delicious dumplings in the world . 
I believe these are the best even you ever made . 
Alice was not unmindful of the compliment , but her thoughts were on other things . 
I shouldn't like that woman's priest , for example , she said , to know that we had no piano . 
Our only chance , however , is that there are some sixteen hundred other houses for him to watch , so that he may not get around to us for quite a spell . 
All the same I'm afraid of them , said Alice , as if argument were exhausted . 
CHAPTER VI On the following morning young Mr. Ware anticipated events by inscribing in his diary for the day , immediately after breakfast , these remarks Arranged about piano . 
The date indeed deserved to be distinguished from its fellows . 
Wonders will never cease , she said jocosely . 
Besides , I want to make such an impression upon the man that he will deal gently with that first cash payment down . 
Do you know , he added , watching her turn the felt brim under the wisp broom's strokes , I'm thinking some of getting me a regular silk stove pipe hat . 
Why don't you , then ? she rejoined , but without any ring of glad acquiescence in her tone . 
He fancied that her face lengthened a little , and he instantly ascribed it to recollections of the way in which the roses had been bullied out of her own headgear . 
She'd only be in the way now . 
You see , with hot weather coming on , there won't be much cooking . 
We'll take all our meals out here , and that saves so much work that really what remains is hardly more than taking care of a bird cage . 
And , besides , not having her will almost half pay for the piano . 
But when cold weather comes , you're sure you'll consent ? he urged . 
Like a shot ! she assured him , and , after a happy little caress , he started out again on his momentous mission . 
Thurston's was a place concerning which opinions differed in Octavius . 
That it typified progress , and helped more than any other feature of the village to bring it up to date , no one indeed disputed . 
One might move about a great deal , in truth , and hear no other view expressed . 
Each had his special flaming grievance . 
But mostly they put it to themselves , because the others were at Thurston's . 
Theron Ware had entertained rather strong views on this subject , and that only a week or two ago . 
But at least he had the air of loving his business , and the young minister had enjoyed a long talk with , or rather , at him . 
Out of this talk had come the information that the store was losing money . 
Not even the stationery department now showed a profit worth mentioning . 
When Octavius had contained only five thousand inhabitants , it boasted four book stores , two of them good ones . 
Now , with a population more than doubled , only these latter two survived , and they must soon go to the wall . 
The reason ? It was in a nutshell . 
A book which sold at retail for one dollar and a half cost the bookseller ninety cents . 
If it was at all a popular book , Thurston's advertised it at eighty nine cents and in any case at a profit of only two or three cents . 
Of course it was done to widen the establishment's patronage to bring people into the store . 
Equally of course , it was destroying the book business and debauching the reading tastes of the community . 
On the other hand , Thurston's dealt with nothing save the demand of the moment , and offered only the books which were the talk of the week . 
Thus , in plain words , the book trade was going to the dogs , and it was the same with pretty nearly every other trade . 
Theron was indignant at this , and on his return home told Alice that he desired her to make no purchases whatever at Thurston's . 
They had lain on his desk now for ten days or more , and on only the previous Friday he had speculated upon using them that coming Sunday . 
He was recognized by some responsible persons , and treated with distinguished deference . 
They were charmed with the intelligence that he desired a piano , and fascinated by his wish to pay for it only a little at a time . 
They had special terms for clergymen , and made him feel as if these were being extended to him on a silver charger by kneeling admirers . 
It was so easy to buy things here that he was a trifle disturbed to find his flowing course interrupted by his own entire ignorance as to what kind of piano he wanted . 
He looked at all they had in stock , and heard them played upon . 
They differed greatly in price , and , so he fancied , almost as much in tone . 
It discouraged him to note , however , that several of those he thought the finest in tone were among the very cheapest in the lot . 
Pondering this , and staring in hopeless puzzlement from one to another of the big black shiny monsters , he suddenly thought of something . 
I would rather not decide for myself , he said , I know so little about it . 
If you don't mind , I will have a friend of mine , a skilled musician , step in and make a selection . 
I have so much confidence in in her judgment . 
He added hurriedly , It will involve only a day or two's delay . 
The next moment he was sorry he had spoken . 
Then all at once the difficulty vanished . 
Of course it would come all right somehow . 
He was on firmer ground , buying the materials for the new book , over on the stationery side . 
He indulged to the full his whim that everything entering into the construction of Abraham should be spick and span . 
He tried a score of pens before the right one came to hand . 
When a box of these had been laid aside , with ink and pen holders and a little bronze inkstand , he made a sign that the outfit was complete . 
Or no there must be some blotting paper . 
Theron stood by while all these things were being tied up together in a parcel . 
The suggestion that they should be sent almost hurt him . 
Oh , no , he would carry them home himself . 
He did it in a roundabout way , with one of his droll , hesitating smiles . 
The man did not understand at all , and Theron had not the temerity to repeat the remark . 
He strode home with the precious bundle as fast as he could . 
I thought it best , after all , not to commit myself to a selection , he explained about the piano at dinner time . 
In such a matter as this , the opinion of an expert is everything . 
I am going to have one of the principal musicians of the town go and try them all , and tell me which we ought to have . 
And while he's about it , said Alice , you might ask him to make a little list of some of the new music . 
I've got way behind the times , being without a piano so long . 
Tell him not any VERY difficult pieces , you know . 
Yes , I know , put in Theron , almost hastily , and began talking of other things . 
It would certainly have been better , at the outset , he decided but to mention it now would be to invest the fact with undue importance . 
Yes , that was quite clear only the clearer it became , from one point of view , the shadier it waxed from the other . 
The problem really disturbed the young minister's mind throughout the meal , and his abstraction became so marked at last that his wife commented upon it . 
A penny for your thoughts ! she said , with cheerful briskness . 
This ancient formula of the farm land had always rather jarred on Theron . 
It presented itself now to his mind as a peculiarly aggravating banality . 
I am going to begin my book this afternoon , he remarked impressively . 
There is a great deal to think about . 
It turned out that there was even more to think about than he had imagined . 
The lessons which cut most deeply into our consciousness are those we learn from our children . 
Theron , in this first day's contact with the offspring of his fancy , found revealed to him an unsuspected and staggering truth . 
It was that he was an extremely ignorant and rudely untrained young man , whose pretensions to intellectual authority among any educated people would be laughed at with deserved contempt . 
Strangely enough , after he had weathered the first shock , this discovery did not dismay Theron Ware . 
The very completeness of the conviction it carried with it , saturated his mind with a feeling as if the fact had really been known to him all along . 
And there came , too , after a little , an almost pleasurable sense of the importance of the revelation . 
He had been merely drifting in fatuous and conceited blindness . 
Now all at once his eyes were open he knew what he had to do . 
Ignorance was a thing to be remedied , and he would forthwith bend all his energies to cultivating his mind till it should blossom like a garden . 
In this mood , Theron mentally measured himself against the more conspicuous of his colleagues in the Conference . 
They also were ignorant , clownishly ignorant the difference was that they were doomed by native incapacity to go on all their lives without ever finding it out . 
It was obvious to him that his case was better . 
There was bright promise in the very fact that he had discovered his shortcomings . 
He had begun the afternoon by taking down from their places the various works in his meagre library which bore more or less relation to the task in hand . 
Perhaps it was the sight of these half filled shelves which started this day's great revolution in Theron's opinions of himself . 
He had never thought much before about owning books . 
Now , suddenly , as he moved along the two shelves , he felt ashamed at their beggarly showing . 
The Land and the Book , in three portly volumes , was the most pretentious of the aids which he finally culled from his collection . 
Then , seating himself , he read carefully through the thirteen chapters of Genesis which chronicle the story of the founder of Israel . 
Of course he had known this story from his earliest years . 
In almost every chapter he came now upon a phrase or an incident which had served him as the basis for a sermon . 
Somehow this time it all seemed different to him . 
The people he read about were altered to his vision . 
Heretofore a poetic light had shone about them , where indeed they had not glowed in a halo of sanctification . 
The apparent fact that Abram was a Chaldean struck him with peculiar force . 
But , no , Abram was introduced simply as a citizen of the Chaldean town of Ur , and there was no hint of any difference in race between him and his neighbors . 
It was specially mentioned that his brother , Lot's father , died in Ur , the city of his nativity . 
Evidently the family belonged there , and were Chaldeans like the rest . 
I do not cite this as at all a striking discovery , but it did have a curious effect upon Theron Ware . 
Now , all at once Theron felt that he hated that sort of book . 
HIS work should be of a vastly different order . 
He might fairly assume , he thought , that if the fact that Abram was a Chaldean was new to him , it would fall upon the world in general as a novelty . 
Very well , then , there was his chance . 
It passed again , leaving him staring fixedly at the pile of books he had taken down from the shelves , and gasping a little , as if for breath . 
But , no , it shouldn't remain a joke ! His long mobile face grew serious under the new resolve . 
He would learn what there was to be learned about the Chaldeans . 
He rose and walked up and down the room , gathering fresh strength of purpose as this inviting field of research spread out its vistas before him . 
Perhaps yes , he would incidentally explore the mysteries of the Moabitic past as well , and thus put the Rev . 
E. Ray Mifflin to confusion on his own subject . 
Now for the first time there rose distinctly in Theron's mind that casual allusion which Father Forbes had made to the Turanians . 
He recalled , too , his momentary feeling of mortification at not knowing who the Turanians were , at the time . 
But this speculation did not detain him . 
He mused instead upon the splendid library Father Forbes must have . 
I haven't got to anybody yet , answered Theron , absently . 
These big things must be approached slowly . 
Come out to supper , then , while the beans are hot , said Alice . 
The young minister sat through this other meal , again in deep abstraction . 
He ate sparingly , and fidgeted in his seat , waiting with obvious impatience for the finish of the meal . 
At last he rose abruptly . 
I've got a call to make something with reference to the book , he said . 
I'll run out now , I think , before it gets dark . 
He put on his hat , and strode out of the house as if his errand was of the utmost urgency . 
Once upon the street , however , his pace slackened . 
There was still a good deal of daylight outside , and he loitered aimlessly about , walking with bowed head and hands clasped behind him , until dusk fell . 
Then he squared his shoulders , and started straight as the crow flies toward the residence of Father Forbes . 
CHAPTER VII The new Catholic church was the largest and most imposing public building in Octavius . 
These facts had not heretofore been a source of satisfaction to the Rev . 
Only a narrow passage way separated the church from the pastorate a fine new brick residence standing flush upon the street . 
Theron mounted the steps , and looked about for a bell pull . 
Search revealed instead a little ivory button set in a ring of metal work . 
He picked at this for a time with his finger nail , before he made out the injunction , printed across it , to push . 
For custodians of a mediaeval superstition and fanaticism , the Catholic clergy seemed very much up to date . 
This bell made him feel rather more a countryman than ever . 
He is came the hush voiced answer . 
He's at dinner , though . 
It took the young minister a second or two to bring into association in his mind this evening hour and this midday meal . 
Then he began to say that he would call again it was nothing special but the woman suddenly cut him short by throwing the door wide open . 
It's Mr. Ware , is it not ? she asked , in a greatly altered tone . 
Sure , he'd not have you go away . 
Come inside do , sir ! I'll tell him . 
Theron , with a dumb show of reluctance , crossed the threshold . 
Then he saw that he was not alone in the hall way . 
Three men and two women , all poorly clad and obviously working people , were seated in meek silence on a bench beyond the hat rack . 
They glanced up at him for an instant , then resumed their patient study of the linoleum pattern on the floor at their feet . 
And will you kindly step in , sir ? the elderly Gorgon had returned to ask . 
She led Mr. Ware along the hall way to a door near the end , and opened it for him to pass before her . 
Inside this ring of illumination points of fire sparkled from silver and porcelain , and two bars of burning crimson tracked across the cloth in reflection from tall glasses filled with wine . 
The rest of the room was vague darkness but the gloom seemed saturated with novel aromatic odors , the appetizing scent of which bore clear relation to what Theron's blinking eyes rested upon . 
He was able now to discern two figures at the table , outside the glowing circle of the lamp . 
They had both risen , and one came toward him with cordial celerity , holding out a white plump hand in greeting . 
It was broken abruptly off by the other's protesting laughter . 
It was quite dramatic , your coming in as you did . 
We were speaking of you at that very moment . 
Oh , I forgot let me make you acquainted with my friend my very particular friend , Dr . 
Let me take your hat pray draw up a chair . 
Maggie will have a place laid for you in a minute . 
Oh , I assure you I couldn't think of it I've just eaten my my dinner , expostulated Theron . 
He wondered from time to time if it would be polite to ask how the potatoes were cooked , so that he might tell Alice . 
The conversation at the table was not continuous , or even enlivened . 
He was greatly relieved , therefore , when Father Forbes explained in an incidental way that Dr . 
Ledsmar and he customarily ate their meals almost without a word . 
Of course what I mean I took it for granted all physicians thought so . 
That depends so much upon the quality of the meals ! he remarked , holding his glass up to the light . 
He seemed a man of middle age and an equable disposition . 
The rest was thin hair and short round beard , mouse colored where the light caught them , but losing their outlines in the shadows of the background . 
Theron had not heard of him among the physicians of Octavius . 
He wondered if he might not be a doctor of something else than medicine , and decided upon venturing the question . 
Oh , yes , it is medicine , replied Ledsmar . 
I am a doctor three or four times over , so far as parchments can make one . 
In some other respects , though , I should think I am probably less of a doctor than anybody else now living . 
I haven't practised that is , regularly for many years , and I take no interest whatever in keeping abreast of what the profession regards as its progress . 
I know nothing beyond what was being taught in the sixties , and that I am glad to say I have mostly forgotten . 
Dear me ! said Theron . 
I had always supposed that Science was the most engrossing of pursuits that once a man took it up he never left it . 
But that would imply a connection between Science and Medicine ! commented the doctor . 
My dear sir , they are not even on speaking terms . 
Shall we go upstairs ? put in the priest , rising from his chair . 
I don't smoke myself but I am very fond of the odor , I assure you . 
Father Forbes led the way out . 
It could be seen now that he wore a long house gown of black silk , skilfully moulded to his erect , shapely , and rounded form . 
The people sat down on their bench again . 
Theron Ware sipped his unaccustomed coffee and embarked upon an explanation of his errand . 
He told them quite in detail the story of his book . 
The two others sat watching him through a faint haze of scented smoke , with polite encouragement on their faces . 
Father Forbes took the added trouble to nod understandingly at the various points of the narrative , and when it was finished gave one of his little approving chuckles . 
This skirts very closely upon sorcery , he said smilingly . 
Do you know , there is perhaps not another man in the country who knows Assyriology so thoroughly as our friend here , Dr . 
That's putting it too strong , remarked the Doctor . 
I only follow at a distance a year or two behind . 
But I daresay I can help you . 
You are quite welcome to anything I have my books cover the ground pretty well up to last year . 
Delitzsch is very interesting but Baudissin's 'Studien zur Semitischen Religionsgeschichte' would come closer to what you need . 
There are several other important Germans Schrader , Bunsen , Duncker , Hommel , and so on . 
Unluckily I I don't read German readily , Theron explained with diffidence . 
That's a pity , said the doctor , because they do the best work not only in this field , but in most others . 
And they do so much that the mass defies translation . 
Well , the best thing outside of German of course is Sayce . 
I daresay you know him , though . 
Mr. Ware shook his head mournfully . 
I don't seem to know any one , he murmured . 
Why not take something easier ? Theron had recovered something of his confidence . 
Oh , no , he said , that is just what attracts me to Abraham . 
I like the complexities and contradictions in his character . 
No , all those difficulties only attract me . 
It was Father Forbes who replied . 
Modern research , you know , quite wipes him out of existence as an individual . 
The word 'Abram' is merely an eponym it means 'exalted father . 
Practically all the names in the Genesis chronologies are what we call eponymous . 
Abram is not a person at all he is a tribe , a sept , a clan . 
In the same way , Shem is not intended for a man it is the name of a great division of the human race . 
Heber is simply the throwing back into allegorical substance , so to speak , of the Hebrews Heth of the Hittites Asshur of Assyria . 
But this is something very new , this theory , isn't it ? queried Theron . 
The priest smiled and shook his head . 
Bless you , no ! My dear sir , there is nothing new . 
Epicurus and Lucretius outlined the whole Darwinian theory more than two thousand years ago . 
As for this eponym thing , why Saint Augustine called attention to it fifteen hundred years ago . 
In his 'De Civitate Dei , he expressly says of these genealogical names , 'GENTES NON HOMINES that is , 'peoples , not persons . 
It was as obvious to him as much a commonplace of knowledge as it was to Ezekiel eight hundred years before him . 
It seems passing strange that we should not know it now , then , commented Theron I mean , that everybody shouldn't know it . 
Father Forbes gave a little purring chuckle . 
Ah , there we get upon contentious ground , he remarked . 
But of course that whole question of private judgment versus authority is No Man's Land for us . 
We were speaking of eponyms . 
Yes , said Theron it is very interesting . 
There is a curious phase of the subject which hasn't been worked out much , continued the priest . 
Probably the Germans will get at that too , sometime . 
They are doing the best Irish work in other fields , as it is . 
I spoke of Heber and Heth , in Genesis , as meaning the Hebrews and the Hittites . 
That is supposed to be comparatively modern about the time of Solomon's Temple . 
They took their ancient name of Feine , the modern Fenian , from him . 
Oddly enough , that is the name which the Romans knew the Phoenicians by , and to them also is ascribed the invention of the alphabet . 
The Irish have a holy salmon of knowledge , just like the Chaldean man fish . 
The Druids' tree worship is identical with that of the Chaldeans those pagan groves , you know , which the Jews were always being punished for building . 
You see , there is nothing new . 
Everything is built on the ruins of something else . 
Father Forbes paused , then added with a twinkle in his eye That peroration is from an old sermon of mine , in the days when I used to preach . 
I remember rather liking it , at the time . 
But you still preach ? asked the Rev . 
Mr. Ware , with lifted brows . 
No ! no more ! I only talk now and again , answered the priest , with what seemed a suggestion of curtness . 
He made haste to take the conversation back again . 
The names of these dead and gone things are singularly pertinacious , though . 
Take the modern name Marmaduke , for example . 
It strikes one as peculiarly modern , up to date , doesn't it ? Well , it is the oldest name on earth thousands of years older than Adam . 
It is the ancient Chaldean Meridug , or Merodach . 
He was the young god who interceded continually between the angry , omnipotent Ea , his father , and the humble and unhappy Damkina , or Earth , who was his mother . 
This is interesting from another point of view , because this Merodach or Marmaduke is , so far as we can see now , the original prototype of our 'divine intermediary' idea . 
I daresay , though , that if we could go back still other scores of centuries , we should find whole receding series of types of this Christ myth of ours . 
For the instant his mind was aflame with this vivid impression that he was among sinister enemies , at the mercy of criminals . 
He half rose under the impelling stress of this feeling , with the sweat standing on his brow , and his jaw dropped in a scared and bewildered stare . 
Then , quite as suddenly , the sense of shock was gone and it was as if nothing at all had happened . 
He drew a long breath , took another sip of his coffee , and found himself all at once reflecting almost pleasurably upon the charm of contact with really educated people . 
He leaned back in the big chair again , and smiled to show these men of the world how much at his ease he was . 
It required an effort , he discovered , but he made it bravely , and hoped he was succeeding . 
It hasn't been in my power to at all lay hold of what the world keeps on learning nowadays about its babyhood , he said . 
All I have done is to try to preserve an open mind , and to maintain my faith that the more we know , the nearer we shall approach the Throne . 
Ledsmar abruptly scuffled his feet on the floor , and took out his watch . 
No , no ! There's plenty of time , remarked the priest , with his soft half smile and purring tones . 
You finish your cigar here with Mr. Ware , and excuse me while I run down and get rid of the people in the hall . 
Father Forbes tossed his cigar end into the fender . 
Then he took from the mantel a strange three cornered black velvet cap , with a dangling silk tassel at the side , put it on his head , and went out . 
Theron , being left alone with the doctor , hardly knew what to do or say . 
He took up a paper from the floor beside him , but realized that it would be impolite to go farther , and laid it on his knee . 
Some trace of that earlier momentary feeling that he was in hostile hands came back , and worried him . 
He lifted himself upright in the chair , and then became conscious that what really disturbed him was the fact that Dr . 
Ledsmar had turned in his seat , crossed his legs , and was contemplating him with a gravely concentrated scrutiny through his spectacles . 
This uncomfortable gaze kept itself up a long way beyond the point of good manners but the doctor seemed not to mind that at all . 
Ledsmar finally spoke , it was in a kindlier tone than the young minister had looked for . 
I had half a notion of going to hear you preach the other evening , he said but at the last minute I backed out . 
I daresay I shall pluck up the courage , sooner or later , and really go . 
It must be fully twenty years since I last heard a sermon , and I had supposed that that would suffice for the rest of my life . 
But they tell me that you are worth while and , for some reason or other , I find myself curious on the subject . 
Involved and dubious though the compliment might be , Theron felt himself flushing with satisfaction . 
He nodded his acknowledgment , and changed the topic . 
I was surprised to hear Father Forbes say that he did not preach , he remarked . 
Why should he ? asked the doctor , indifferently . 
There is no point in his going to all that pains , merely to incur that risk . 
Nobody wants him to preach , and he has reached an age where personal vanity no longer tempts him to do so . 
They draw the line at that . 
You see how diametrically opposed this Catholic point of view is to the Protestant . 
The difference does seem extremely curious to me , said Theron . 
Now , those people in the hall Go on , put in the doctor , as the other faltered hesitatingly . 
I know what you were going to say . 
It struck you as odd that he should let them wait on the bench there , while he came up here to smoke . 
I WAS thinking that my my parishioners wouldn't have taken it so quietly . 
But of course it is all so different ! As chalk from cheese ! said Dr . 
Ledsmar , lighting a fresh cigar . 
I daresay every one you saw there had come either to take the pledge , or see to it that one of the others took it . 
That is the chief industry in the hall , so far as I have observed . 
Now discipline is an important element in the machinery here . 
Coming to take the pledge implies that you have been drunk and are now ashamed . 
Both states have their values , but they are opposed . 
Sitting on that bench tends to develop penitence to the prejudice of alcoholism . 
Now , I daresay you have no people at all coming to 'swear off . 
Mr. Ware shook his head . 
No if a man with us got as bad as all that , he wouldn't come near the church at all . 
He'd simply drop out , and there would be an end to it . 
Quite so , interjected the doctor . 
That is the voluntary system . 
But these fellows can't drop out . 
There's no bottom to the Catholic Church . 
Everything that's in , stays in . 
The Catholics' conception , you see , is quite the converse . 
Some come every day , some only once a year , some perhaps never between their baptism and their funeral . 
But they all have a right here , the professional burglar every whit as much as the speckless saint . 
The only stipulation is that they oughtn't to come under false pretences the burglar is in honor bound not to pass himself off to his priest as the saint . 
But that is merely a moral obligation , established in the burglar's own interest . 
It does him no good to come unless he feels that he is playing the rules of the game , and one of these is confession . 
If he cheats there , he knows that he is cheating nobody but himself , and might much better have stopped away altogether . 
Theron nodded his head comprehendingly . 
There was indeed a sense of languid repletion in his mind , as if it had been overfed and wanted to lie down for awhile . 
He contented himself with nodding again , and murmuring reflectively , Yes , it is all strangely different . 
Theron watched him with an indolent , placid eye , wondering lazily if it was , after all , so very pleasant to smoke . 
There fell upon this silence with a softness so delicate that it came almost like a progression in the hush the sound of sweet music . 
It went on upward with stately collectedness of power , till the atmosphere seemed all alive with the trembling consciousness of the presence of lofty souls , sternly pure and pitilessly great . 
Theron found himself moved as he had never been before . 
He would fain have reclined in his chair and closed his eyes , and saturated himself with the uttermost fulness of the sensation . 
Yet , in absurd despite of himself , he rose and moved over to the window . 
Only a narrow alley separated the pastorate from the church Mr. Ware could have touched with a walking stick the opposite wall . 
Indirectly facing him was the arched and mullioned top of a great window . 
A dim light from within shone through the more translucent portions of the glass below , throwing out faint little bars of party colored radiance upon the blackness of the deep passage way . 
He could vaguely trace by these the outlines of some sort of picture on the window . 
There were human figures in it , and yes up here in the centre , nearest him , was a woman's head . 
There was a halo about it , engirdling rich , flowing waves of reddish hair , the lights in which glowed like flame . 
The face itself was barely distinguishable , but its half suggested form raised a curious sense of resemblance to some other face . 
He looked at it closely , blankly , the noble music throbbing through his brain meanwhile . 
It's that Madden girl ! he suddenly heard a voice say by his side . 
Ledsmar had followed him to the window , and was close at his shoulder . 
Theron's thoughts were upon the puzzling shadowed lineaments on the stained glass . 
He saw now in a flash the resemblance which had baffled him . 
It IS like her , of course , he said . 
Yes , unfortunately , it IS just like her , replied the doctor , with a hostile note in his voice . 
Whenever I am dining here , she always goes in and kicks up that racket . 
She knows I hate it . 
Oh , you mean that it is she who is playing , remarked Theron . 
I thought you referred to at least I was thinking of His sentence died off in inconsequence . 
He had a feeling that he did not want to talk with the doctor about the stained glass likeness . 
The music had sunk away now into fragmentary and unconnected passages , broken here and there by abrupt stops . 
Ledsmar stretched an arm out past him and shut the window . 
Let's hear as little of the row as we can , he said , and the two went back to their chairs . 
Pardon me for the question , the Rev . 
That must have been puzzling you no end , he said that notion that the pastorate kept a devil's advocate on the premises . 
No , Mr. Ware , I don't live here . 
But I dine here three or four times a week . 
It is an old arrangement of ours . 
Vincent and I have been friends for many years now . 
We are quite alone in the world , we two much to our mutual satisfaction . 
You must come up and see me some time come up and have a look over the books we were speaking of . 
I am much obliged , said Theron , without enthusiasm . 
The thought of the doctor by himself did not attract him greatly . 
The reservation in his tone seemed to interest the doctor . 
I suppose you are the first man I have asked in a dozen years , he remarked , frankly willing that the young minister should appreciate the favor extended him . 
It must be fully that since anybody but Vincent Forbes has been under my roof that is , of my own species , I mean . 
You live there quite alone , commented Theron . 
Quite with my dogs and cats and lizards and my Chinaman . 
The doctor noted the inquiry in the other's lifted brows , and smilingly explained . 
He is my solitary servant . 
Possibly he might not appeal to you much but I can assure you he used to interest Octavius a great deal when I first brought him here , ten years ago or so . 
He afforded occupation for all the idle boys in the village for a twelve month at least . 
They used to lie in wait for him all day long , with stones or horse chestnuts or snowballs , according to the season . 
The Irishmen from the wagon works nearly killed him once or twice , but he patiently lived it all down . 
The Chinaman has the patience to live everything down the Caucasian races included . 
If anything , it was louder than before , and the sonorous roar of the bass pedals seemed to be shaking the very walls . 
It was impossible to pretend not to be listening to it but the doctor submitted with an obvious scowl , and bit off the tip of his third cigar with an annoyed air . 
You don't seem to care much for music , suggested Mr. Ware , when a lull came . 
Ledsmar looked up , lighted match in hand . 
Say musicians ! he growled . 
I have in my time , sir , had considerable opportunities for studying close at hand the various orders of mammalia who devote themselves to what they describe as the arts . 
This seemed such unqualified nonsense to the Rev . 
Mr. Ware that he offered no comment whatever upon it . 
But the doctor broke insistently in upon his musings . 
All art , so called , is decay , he said , raising his voice . 
When a race begins to brood on the beautiful so called it is a sign of rot , of getting ready to fall from the tree . 
Take the Jews those marvellous old fellows who were never more than a handful , yet have imposed the rule of their ideas and their gods upon us for fifteen hundred years . 
Why ? They were forbidden by their most fundamental law to make sculptures or pictures . 
That was at a time when the Egyptians , when the Assyrians , and other Semites , were running to artistic riot . 
Every great museum in the world now has whole floors devoted to statues from the Nile , and marvellous carvings from the palaces of Sargon and Assurbanipal . 
You can get the artistic remains of the Jews during that whole period into a child's wheelbarrow . 
They had the sense and strength to penalize art they alone survived . 
They saw the Egyptians go , the Assyrians go , the Greeks go , the late Romans go , the Moors in Spain go all the artistic peoples perish . 
They remained triumphing over all . 
Now at last their long belated apogee is here their decline is at hand . 
That means the end of the Jews ! What ! have you only got as far as that ? came the welcome interruption of a cheery voice . 
Father Forbes had entered the room , and stood looking down with a whimsical twinkle in his eye from one to the other of his guests . 
I fancied I had given him time enough to bring you straight up to the end of all of us , with that Chinaman of his gently slapping our graves with his pigtail . 
That's where the doctor always winds up , if he's allowed to run his course . 
It has all been very interesting , extremely so , I assure you , faltered Theron . 
It had become suddenly apparent to him that he desired nothing so much as to make his escape that he had indeed only been waiting for the host's return to do so . 
He rose at this , and explained that he must be going . 
The night was warm and black . 
Theron stood still in it the moment the pastorate door had closed the sudden darkness was so thick that it was as if he had closed his eyes . 
His dominant sensation was of a deep relief and rest after some undue fatigue . 
It crossed his mind that drunken men probably felt like that as they leaned against things on their way home . 
He was affected himself , he saw , by the weariness and half nausea following a mental intoxication . 
The conceit pleased him , and he smiled to himself as he turned and took the first homeward steps . 
It must be growing late , he thought . 
Alice would be wondering as she waited . 
It became a pleasure to identify his progress with the quaint rhythm of sound as he sauntered along . 
He discovered , as he neared the light , that he was instinctively stepping over the seams in the flagstone sidewalk as he had done as a boy . 
He smiled again at this . 
There was something exceptionally juvenile and buoyant about his mood , now that he examined it . 
He set it down as a reaction from that doctor's extravagant and incendiary talk . 
One thing was certain he would never be caught up at that house beyond the race course , with its reptiles and its Chinaman . 
A thin , pale , vertical line of light showed that the inner door , too , was ajar . 
It was as if it was being played for him alone . 
He paused for a doubting minute or two , with bowed head , listening to the exquisite harmony which floated out to caress and soothe and enfold him . 
There was no spiritual , or at least pious , effect in it now . 
Theron turned away irresolutely , half frightened at the undreamt of impression this music was making upon him . 
He had never been inside a Catholic church before . 
CHAPTER IX Jeremiah Madden was supposed to be probably the richest man in Octavius . 
There was no doubt at all about his being its least pretentious citizen . 
Everybody knew some version of the many tales afloat which , in a kindly spirit , illustrated the incongruity between him and his splendid habitation . 
Some had it that he slept in the shed . 
But no matter how comic the exaggeration , these legends were invariably amiable . 
It lay in no man's mouth to speak harshly of Jeremiah Madden . 
He had been born a Connemara peasant , and he would die one . 
When he was ten years old he had seen some of his own family , and most of his neighbors , starve to death . 
He could remember looking at the stiffened figure of a woman stretched on the stones by the roadside , with the green stain of nettles on her white lips . 
He could recall her coming back next day , wild eyed with hunger and the fever the officers had refused her relief because her bare legs were not wholly shrunken to the bone . 
While there's a calf on the shank , there's no starvation , they had explained to her . 
The girl died without profiting by this official apothegm . 
The boy found it burned ineffaceably upon his brain . 
Now , after a lapse of more than forty years , it seemed the thing that he remembered best about Ireland . 
He had drifted westward as an unconsidered , unresisting item in that vast flight of the famine years . 
Others whom he rubbed against in that melancholy exodus , and deemed of much greater promise than himself , had done badly . 
He learned the wheelwright's trade , and really that seemed all there was to tell . 
Jeremiah encountered the idea among his fellows , now and again , that he was entitled to feel proud of all this . 
He smiled to himself at the thought , and then sent a sigh after the smile . 
He could not have it in his heart to take credit for his success it would have been like sneering over their poor graves . 
Jeremiah Madden was now fifty three a little man of a reddened , weather worn skin and a meditative , almost saddened , aspect . 
He had blue eyes , but his scanty iron gray hair showed raven black in its shadows . 
The width and prominence of his cheek bones dominated all one's recollections of his face . 
The long vertical upper lip and irregular teeth made , in repose , an unshapely mouth its smile , though , sweetened the whole countenance . 
He wore a fringe of stiff , steel colored beard , passing from ear to ear under his chin . 
His week day clothes were as simple as his workaday manners , fitting his short black pipe and his steadfast devotion to his business . 
On Sundays he dressed with a certain rigor of respectability , all in black , and laid aside tobacco , at least to the public view . 
He never missed going to the early Low Mass , quite alone . 
His family always came later , at the ten o'clock High Mass . 
There had been , at one time or another , a good many members of this family . 
Two wives had borne Jeremiah Madden a total of over a dozen children . 
This minority of the family inhabited the great new house on Main Street . 
Jeremiah went every Sunday afternoon by himself to kneel in the presence of the majority , there where they lay in Saint Agnes' consecrated ground . 
The old wagon maker liked to look over the primitive , neglected stones which marked the graves of these earlier exiles . 
Fully half of the inscriptions mentioned his County Galway there were two naming the very parish adjoining his . 
The latest date on any stone was of the remoter 'fifties . 
What had happened between was a meaningless vision as impersonal as the passing of the planets overhead . 
He rarely had an impulse to tears in the new cemetery , where his ten children were . 
He never left this weed grown , forsaken old God's acre dry eyed . 
One must not construct from all this the image of a melancholy man , as his fellows met and knew him . 
Mr. Madden kept his griefs , racial and individual , for his own use . 
To the men about him in the offices and the shops he presented day after day , year after year , an imperturbable cheeriness of demeanor . 
He had been always fortunate in the selection of lieutenants and chief helpers . 
Two of these had grown now into partners , and were almost as much a part of the big enterprise as Jeremiah himself . 
They spoke often of their inability to remember any unjust or petulant word of his much less any unworthy deed . 
Once they had seen him in a great rage , all the more impressive because he said next to nothing . 
A thoughtless fellow told a dirty story in the presence of some apprentices and Madden , listening to this , drove the offender implacably from his employ . 
It was years now since any one who knew him had ventured upon lewd pleasantries in his hearing . 
Jokes of the sort which women might hear he was very fond of though he had not much humor of his own . 
Of books he knew nothing whatever , and he made only the most perfunctory pretence now and again of reading the newspapers . 
If there was surprise felt at his not being taken into the firm as a partner , he gave no hint of sharing it . 
He attended to his religious duties with great zeal , and was President of the Sodality as a matter of course . 
To some few whom he knew specially well , Michael would confess that if he had had the brains for it , he should have wished to be a priest . 
He displayed no inclination to marry . 
The other son , Terence , was some eight years younger , and seemed the product of a wholly different race . 
This second lad had been away for years at school , indeed , at a good many schools , for no one seemed to manage to keep him long . 
He had been with the Jesuits at Georgetown , with the Christian Brothers at Manhattan the sectarian Mt . 
Mary's and the severely secular Annapolis had both been tried , and proved misfits . 
He was still rather small for his years , but so gracefully moulded in form , and so perfectly tailored , that the fact seemed rather an advantage than otherwise . 
He never dreamed of going near the wagon works , but he did go a good deal in fact , most of the time to the Nedahma Club . 
His mother spoke often to her friends about her fears for his health . 
He never spoke to his friends about his mother at all . 
The second Mrs. Madden did not , indeed , appeal strongly to the family pride . 
She had been a Miss Foley , a dress maker , and an old maid . 
Jeremiah had married her after a brief widowerhood , principally because she was the sister of his parish priest , and had a considerable reputation for piety . 
It was at a time when the expansion of his business was promising certain wealth , and suggesting the removal to Octavius . 
He was conscious of a notion that his obligations to social respectability were increasing it was certain that the embarrassments of a motherless family were . 
Miss Foley had shown a good deal of attention to his little children . 
She was not ill looking she bore herself with modesty she was the priest's sister the niece once removed of a vicar general . 
And so it came about . 
Although those most concerned did not say so , everybody could see from the outset the pity of its ever having come about at all . 
The pious and stiffly respectable priest's sister had been harmless enough as a spinster . 
It made the heart ache to contemplate her as a wife . 
Incredibly narrow minded , ignorant , suspicious , vain , and sour tempered , she must have driven a less equable and well rooted man than Jeremiah Madden to drink or flight . 
He may have had his temptations , but they made no mark on the even record of his life . 
He only worked the harder , concentrating upon his business those extra hours which another sort of home life would have claimed instead . 
The end of twenty years found him a rich man , but still toiling pertinaciously day by day , as if he had his wage to earn . 
In the great house which had been built to please , or rather placate , his wife , he kept to himself as much as possible . 
Celia was to them something indefinably less , indescribably more , than a daughter and sister . 
They could not think there had ever been anything like her before in the world the notion of criticising any deed or word of hers would have appeared to them monstrous and unnatural . 
She seemed to have come up to this radiant and wise and marvellously talented womanhood of hers , to their minds , quite spontaneously . 
The miracle of such a Celia as this impressed itself even upon the step mother . 
Mrs. Madden had looked forward with a certain grim tightening of her combative jaws to the home coming of the red head . 
She felt herself much more the fine lady now than she had been when the girl went away . 
The flush of pride in her greatest achievement up to date having the most celebrated of New York physicians brought up to Octavius by special train still prickled in her blood . 
The real Celia , when she came , fairly took Mrs. Madden's breath away . 
The step mother could only stare . 
Now , after two years of it , Mrs. Madden still viewed her step daughter with round eyed uncertainty , not unmixed with wrathful fear . 
Worst of all , something of the meaning of this managed to penetrate her own mind . 
She caught now and again a dim glimpse of herself as others must have been seeing her for years as a stupid , ugly , boastful , and bad tempered old nuisance . 
And it was always as if she saw this in a mirror held up by Celia . 
Of open discord there had been next to none . 
Celia would not permit it , and showed this so clearly from the start that there was scarcely need for her saying it . 
It seemed hardly necessary for her to put into words any of her desires , for that matter . 
All existing arrangements in the Madden household seemed to shrink automatically and make room for her , whichever way she walked . 
A whole quarter of the unfinished house set itself apart for her . 
When the family moved into this mansion , it was with a consciousness that the only one who really belonged there was Celia . 
She alone could behave like one perfectly at home . 
If she awakened them at midnight by her piano , or deferred her breakfast to the late afternoon , they felt that it must be all right , since Celia did it . 
That the step mother had joy , or indeed anything but gall and wormwood , out of all this is not to be pretended . 
The two rarely met , for that matter , and exchanged only the baldest and curtest forms of speech . 
Celia Madden interested all Octavius deeply . 
This she must have done in any case , if only because she was the only daughter of its richest citizen . 
The unlikelihood of her marrying any one at least any Octavian was felt to add a certain romantic zest to the image she made on the local perceptions . 
She seemed to have more business about the church than even the priest . 
Clearly this was not the sort of girl to take a Protestant husband . 
The gossip of the town concerning her was , however , exclusively Protestant . 
The Irish spoke of her , even among themselves , but seldom . 
There was no occasion for them to pretend to like her they did not know her , except in the most distant and formal fashion . 
Even the members of the choir , of both sexes , had the sense of being held away from her at haughty arm's length . 
No single parishioner dreamed of calling her friend . 
But when they referred to her , it was always with a cautious and respectful reticence . 
For one thing , she was the daughter of their chief man , the man they most esteemed and loved . 
For another , reservations they may have had in their souls about her touched close upon a delicately sore spot . 
Theron Ware had not caught even the faintest hint of these overtures to suspicion . 
Then , little by little , his surroundings shaped themselves out of the gloom . 
Overhead the great arches faded away from foundations of dimly discernible capitals into utter blackness . 
There was a strange medicinal odor as of cubeb cigarettes in the air . 
After a little pause , he tiptoed noiselessly up the side aisle toward the end of the church toward the light above the gallery . 
This radiance from a single gas jet expanded as he advanced , and spread itself upward over a burnished row of monster metal pipes , which went towering into the darkness like giants . 
They were roaring at him now a sonorous , deafening , angry bellow , which made everything about him vibrate . 
The gallery balustrade hid the keyboard and the organist from view . 
There were only these jostling brazen tubes , as big round as trees and as tall , trembling with their own furious thunder . 
He stumbled in the obscure light over a kneeling bench , making a considerable racket . 
On the instant the noise from the organ ceased , and he saw the black figure of a woman rise above the gallery rail and look down . 
Who is it ? the indubitable voice of Miss Madden demanded sharply . 
Theron had a sudden sheepish notion of turning and running . 
With the best grace he could summon , he called out an explanation instead . 
I'm coming down , she returned . 
He thought there was a note of amusement in her tone . 
She came to him a moment later , accompanied by a thin , tall man , whom Theron could barely see in the dark , now that the organ light too was gone . 
This man lighted a match or two to enable them to make their way out . 
When they were on the sidewalk , Celia spoke Walk on ahead , Michael ! she said . 
I have some matters to speak of with Mr. Ware . 
CHAPTER X Well , what did you think of Dr . 
Ledsmar ? The girl's abrupt question came as a relief to Theron . 
They were walking along in a darkness so nearly complete that he could see next to nothing of his companion . 
For some reason , this seemed to suggest a sort of impropriety . 
That was going to be very awkward yes , worse than awkward ! It might mean ruin itself . 
She had mentioned aloud that she had matters to talk over with him that of course implied confidences , and the man might put heaven only knew what construction on that . 
It was notorious that servants did ascribe the very worst motives to those they worked for . 
The bare thought of the delight an Irish servant would have in also dragging a Protestant clergyman into the thing was sickening . 
And what could she want to talk to him about , anyway ? The minute of silence stretched itself out upon his nerves into an interminable period of anxious unhappiness . 
Her mention of the doctor at last somehow , seemed to lighten the situation . 
Oh , I thought he was very smart . 
he made haste to answer . 
Wouldn't it be better to keep close to your man ? He may think we've gone some other way . 
It wouldn't matter if he did , remarked Celia . 
She appeared to comprehend his nervousness and take pity on it , for she added , It is my brother Michael , as good a soul as ever lived . 
He is quite used to my ways . 
Mr. Ware drew a long comforting breath . 
Oh , I see ! He went with you to bring you home . 
To blow the organ , said the girl in the dark , correctingly . 
But about that doctor did you like him ? Well , Theron began , 'like' is rather a strong word for so short an acquaintance . 
He talked very well that is , fluently . 
But he is so different from any other man I have come into contact with that What I wanted you to say was that you hated him , put in Celia , firmly . 
I don't make a practice of saying that of anybody , returned Theron , so much at his ease again that he put an effect of gentle , smiling reproof into the words . 
And why specially should I make an exception for him ? Because he's a beast ! Theron fancied that he understood . 
I noticed that he seemed not to have much of an ear for music , he commented , with a little laugh . 
He shut down the window when you began to play . 
His doing so annoyed me , because I I wanted very much to hear it all . 
I never heard such music before . 
But tonight I wanted to talk with you instead . 
She kept silent , in spite of this , so long now that Theron was on the point of jestingly asking when the talk was to begin . 
Does it impress you that way ? I don't know that it does , said he , dubiously . 
It seemed , however , to be her whim to talk literature , and he went on I've hardly read Meredith at all . 
I once borrowed his 'Lucile , but somehow I never got interested in it . 
I fancied I shouldn't like them . 
But I daresay I was wrong . 
As I get older , I find that I take less narrow views of literature that is , of course , of light literature and that that Celia mercifully stopped him . 
The reason I asked you was she began , and then herself paused . 
Or no , never mind that tell me something else . 
I have always lived in little places . 
I suppose , from your point of view , I have never seen a good painting in my life . 
Perhaps that may help you to get at what you are after . 
No , I DON'T mind . 
I have a reason for wanting to know to satisfy myself whether I had guessed rightly or not about the kind of man you are . 
I mean in the matter of temperament and bent of mind and tastes . 
The girl seemed to be speaking seriously , and without intent to offend . 
Theron did not find any comment ready , but walked along by her side , wondering much what it was all about . 
I daresay you think me 'too familiar on short acquaintance , she continued , after a little . 
My dear Miss Madden ! he protested perfunctorily . 
No it is a matter of a good deal of importance , she went on . 
I can see that you are going to be thrown into friendship , close contact , with Father Forbes . 
He likes you , and you can't help liking him . 
There is nobody else in this raw , overgrown , empty headed place for you and him TO like , nobody except that man , that Dr . 
And if you like HIM , I shall hate you ! He has done mischief enough already . 
I am counting on you to help undo it , and to choke him off from doing more . 
It would be different if you were an ordinary Orthodox minister , all encased like a terrapin in prejudices and nonsense . 
Of course , if you had been THAT kind , we should never have got to know you at all . 
But when I saw you in MacEvoy's cottage there , it was plain that you were one of US I mean a MAN , and not a marionette or a mummy . 
I am talking very frankly to you , you see . 
I want you on my side , against that doctor and his heartless , bloodless science . 
I feel myself very heartily on your side , replied Theron . 
She had set their progress at a slower pace , now that the lights of the main street were drawing near , as if to prolong their talk . 
All his earlier reservations had fled . 
It was almost as if she were a parishioner of his own . 
I need hardly tell you that the doctor's whole attitude toward toward revelation was deeply repugnant to me . 
It doesn't make it any the less hateful to call it science . 
I am afraid , though , he went on hesitatingly , that there are difficulties in the way of my helping , as you call it . 
You see , the very fact of my being a Methodist minister , and his being a Catholic priest , rather puts my interference out of the question . 
No that doesn't matter a button , said Celia , lightly . 
None of us think of that at all . 
There is the other embarrassment , then , pursued Theron , diffidently , that Father Forbes is a vastly broader and deeper scholar in all these matters than I am . 
How could I possibly hope to influence him by my poor arguments ? I don't know even the alphabet of the language he thinks in on these subjects , I mean . 
Of course you don't ! interposed the girl , with a confidence which the other , for all his meekness , rather winced under . 
That wasn't what I meant at all . 
We don't want arguments from our friends we want sympathies , sensibilities , emotional bonds . 
The right person's silence is worth more for companionship than the wisest talk in the world from anybody else . 
It isn't your mind that is needed here , or what you know it is your heart , and what you feel . 
You are full of poetry , of ideals , of generous , unselfish impulses . 
You see the human , the warm blooded side of things . 
THAT is what is really valuable . 
THAT is how you can help ! You overestimate me sadly , protested Theron , though with considerable tolerance for her error in his tone . 
But you ought to tell me something about this Dr . 
He spoke of being an old friend of the pr of Father Forbes . 
Oh , yes , they've always known each other that is , for many years . 
They were professors together in a college once , heaven only knows how long ago . 
Then they separated , I fancy they quarrelled , too , before they parted . 
The doctor came here , where some relative had left him the place he lives in . 
Then in time the Bishop chanced to send Father Forbes here that was about three years ago , and the two men after a while renewed their old relations . 
They dine together that is the doctor's stronghold . 
He knows more about eating than any other man alive , I believe . 
He studies it as you would study a language . 
He has taught old Maggie , at the pastorate there , to cook like the mother of all the Delmonicos . 
Miss Madden looked up at him . 
They had turned into the main street , and there was light enough for him to detect something startlingly like a grin on her beautiful face . 
But I'm not religious at all , you know , he heard her say . 
I'm as Pagan as anything ! Of course there are forms to be observed , and so on I rather like them than otherwise . 
I can make them serve very well for my own system for I am myself , you know , an out an out Greek . 
Why , I had supposed that you were full blooded Irish , the Rev . 
Mr. Ware found himself remarking , and then on the instant was overwhelmed by the consciousness that he had said a foolish thing . 
Precisely where the folly lay he did not know , but it was impossible to mistake the gesture of annoyance which his companion had instinctively made at his words . 
She had widened the distance between them now , and quickened her step . 
They went on in silence till they were within a block of her house . 
Several people had passed them who Theron felt sure must have recognized them both . 
Personally , I take much more stock in Plato than I do in Peter . 
But of course it is a wholly personal affair I had no business to bother you with it . 
And for that matter , I oughtn't to have troubled you with any of our I assure you , Miss Madden ! the young minister began , with fervor . 
No , she broke in , in a resigned and even downcast tone let it all be as if I hadn't spoken . 
Don't mind anything I have said . 
If it is to be , it will be . 
Things seemed all at once to have become very sad indeed . 
It is one of my unhappy nights , she explained , in gloomy confidence . 
I get them every once in a while as if some vicious planet or other was crossing in front of my good star and then I'm a caution to snakes . 
I shut myself up that's the only thing to do and have it out with myself I didn't know but the organ music would calm me down , but it hasn't . 
Do YOU ever have fits like that ? Theron was able to reply with a good conscience in the negative . 
There is my brother , waiting at the gate , she said then , briefly . 
Well , then , I will bid you good night here , I think , Theron remarked , coming to a halt , and offering his hand . 
It must be getting very late , and my that is I have to be up particularly early tomorrow . 
So good night I hope you will be feeling ever so much better in spirits in the morning . 
Oh , that doesn't matter , replied the girl , listlessly . 
It's a very paltry little affair , this life of ours , at the best of it . 
Luckily it's soon done with like a bad dream . 
Tut ! Tut ! I won't have you talk like that ! interrupted Theron , with a swift and smart assumption of authority . 
Such talk isn't sensible , and it isn't good . 
I really am unhappy tonight , Mr. Ware , very unhappy . 
Good night , Mr. Ware . 
I shall do better next time . 
And good night again , and ever so many thanks . 
She was walking briskly away toward the gate now , where the shadowy Michael still patiently stood . 
Theron strode off in the opposite direction , taking long , deliberate steps , and bowing his head in thought . 
Suddenly he remembered about the piano he had quite forgotten to solicit her aid in selecting it . 
He turned , upon the impulse , to go back . 
She had not entered the gate as yet , but stood , shiningly visible under the street lamp , on the sidewalk , and she was looking in his direction . 
He turned again like a shot , and started homeward . 
The front door of the parsonage was unlocked , and he made his way on tiptoe through the unlighted hall to the living room . 
The stuffy air here was almost suffocating with the evil smell of a kerosene lamp turned down too low . 
Alice sat asleep in her old farmhouse rocking chair , with an inelegant darning basket on the table by her side . 
The whole effect of the room was as bare and squalid to Theron's newly informed eye as the atmosphere was offensive to his nostrils . 
He coughed sharply , and his wife sat up and looked at the clock . 
Where on earth have you been ? she asked , with a yawn , turning up the wick of her sewing lamp again . 
You ought never to turn down a light like that , said Theron , with a complaining note in his voice . 
It smells up the whole place . 
I never dreamed of your sitting up for me like this . 
You ought to have gone to bed . 
But how could I guess that you were going to be so late ? , she retorted . 
And you haven't told me where you were . 
It seemed as if months had elapsed since he was in earnest about that book and yet he had left the house full of it only a few hours before . 
He shook his wits together , and made answer Oh , bless you , no ! Only there arose a very curious question . 
You have no idea , literally no conception , of the interesting and important problems which are raised by the mere fact of Abraham leaving the city of Ur . 
It's amazing , I assure you . 
I hadn't realized it myself . 
You have no idea what a scholarly man Dr . 
Ledsmar is , Theron suddenly found himself inspired to volunteer . 
He has the most marvellous collection of books a whole library devoted to this very subject and he has put them all quite freely at my disposal . 
Extremely kind of him , isn't it ? Ledsmar ? Ledsmar ? queried Alice . 
I don't seem to remember the name . 
He isn't the little man with the birthmark , who sits in the pew behind the Lovejoys , is he ? I think some one said he was a doctor . 
Yes , a horse doctor ! said Theron , with a sniff . 
No you haven't seen this Dr . 
I I don't know that he attends any church regularly . 
I scraped his acquaintance quite by accident . 
He is really a character . 
He lives in the big house , just beyond the race course , you know the one with the tower at the back No , I don't know . 
How should I ? I've hardly poked my nose outside of the yard since I have been here . 
Well , you shall go , said the husband , consolingly . 
You HAVE been cooped up here too much , poor girl . 
I must take you out more , really . 
I don't know that I could take you to the doctor's place without an invitation , I mean . 
He is very queer about some things . 
He lives there all alone , for instance , with only a Chinaman for a servant . 
He told me I was almost the only man he had asked under his roof for years . 
He isn't a practising physician at all , you know . 
He is a scientist he makes experiments with lizards and things . 
You've got to be mighty particular in such matters , you know , or you'll have the trustees down on you like a 'thousand of bricks . 
I will thank the trustees to mind their own business , said Theron , stiffly , and the subject dropped . 
Theron listened to this as he undressed . 
It proceeded from the direction of the main street , and he knew , as by instinct , that it was the Madden girl who was playing . 
The incongruity of the hour escaped his notice . 
He mused instead upon the wild and tropical tangle of moods , emotions , passions , which had grown up in that strange temperament . 
He found something very pathetic in that picture she had drawn of herself in forecast , roaming disconsolate through her rooms the livelong night , unable to sleep . 
The woful moan of insomnia seemed to make itself heard in every strain from her piano . 
Alice heard it also , but being unillumined , she missed the romantic pathos . 
I call it disgraceful , she muttered from her pillow , for folks to be banging away on a piano at this time of night . 
There ought to be a law to prevent it . 
It may be some distressed soul , said Theron , gently , seeking relief from the curse of sleeplessness . 
The wife laughed , almost contemptuously . 
Distressed fiddlesticks ! was her only other comment . 
The music went on for a long time rising now to strident heights , now sinking off to the merest tinkling murmur , and broken ever and again by intervals of utter hush . 
PART II CHAPTER XI For some weeks the Rev . 
Theron Ware saw nothing of either the priest or the doctor , or the interesting Miss Madden . 
There were , indeed , more urgent matters to think about . 
June had come and every succeeding day brought closer to hand the ordeal of his first Quarterly Conference in Octavius . 
The waters grew distinctly rougher as his pastoral bark neared this difficult passage . 
He would have approached the great event with an easier mind if he could have made out just how he stood with his congregation . 
Unfortunately nothing in his previous experiences helped him in the least to measure or guess at the feelings of these curious Octavians . 
Their Methodism seemed to be sound enough , and to stick quite to the letter of the Discipline , so long as it was expressed in formulae . 
It was its spirit which he felt to be complicated by all sorts of conditions wholly novel to him . 
The existence of a line of street cars in the town , for example , would not impress the casual thinker as likely to prove a rock in the path of peaceful religion . 
He was imprudent enough to mention this in conversation with one of his new parishioners . 
At least once a year they were accustomed to expect a sermon denouncing it and all its impious Sunday patrons . 
Theron made a mental resolve that this year they should be disappointed . 
Another burning problem , which he had not been called upon before to confront , he found now entangled with the mysterious line which divided a circus from a menagerie . 
One of these cases still remained on the censorial docket of the church and Theron understood that he was expected to name a committee of five to examine and try it . 
This he neglected to do . 
He was no longer at all certain that the congregation as a whole liked his sermons . 
The truth was , no doubt , that he had learned enough to cease regarding the congregation as a whole . 
He could still rely upon carrying along with him in his discourses from the pulpit a large majority of interested and approving faces . 
But here , unhappily , was a case where the majority did not rule . 
The minority , relatively small in numbers , was prodigious in virile force . 
The rupture came fittingly at that time when all the isms of the argumentative fifties were hurled violently together into the melting pot of civil war . 
The great Methodist Church , South , had broken bodily off on the question of State Rights . 
The smaller and domestic fraction of Free Methodism separated itself upon an issue which may be most readily described as one of civilization . 
They did battle as long as they could , inside the fold , to restore it to the severely straight and narrow path of primitive Methodism . 
When the adverse odds became too strong for them , they quitted the church and set up a Bethel for themselves . 
Octavius chanced to be one of the places where they were able to hold their own within the church organization . 
The Methodism of the town had gone along without any local secession . 
Octavian Methodism was spared extravagances of this sort , it is true , but it paid a price for the immunity . 
The people whom an open split would have taken away remained to leaven and dominate the whole lump . 
The situation had begun to unfold itself to Theron from the outset . 
He had recognized the episodes of the forbidden Sunday milk and of the flowers in poor Alice's bonnet as typical of much more that was to come . 
No week followed without bringing some new fulfilment of this foreboding . 
Though Theron at once decided to show fight , and did not at all waver in that resolve , his courage was in the main of a despondent sort . 
But more often it was blankly apparent to him that , the moment flags were flying and drums on the roll , these amiable fair weather friends would probably take to their heels . 
Still , such as they were , his sole hope lay in their support . 
He must make the best of them . 
He set himself doggedly to the task of gathering together all those who were not his enemies into what , when the proper time came , should be known as the pastor's party . 
There was plenty of apostolic warrant for this . 
If there had not been , Theron felt that the mere elementary demands of self defence would have justified his use of strategy . 
The institution of pastoral calling , particularly that inquisitorial form of it laid down in the Discipline , had never attracted Theron . 
He and Alice had gone about among their previous flocks in quite a haphazard fashion , without thought of system , much less of deliberate purpose . 
Theron made lists now , and devoted thought and examination to the personal tastes and characteristics of the people to be cultivated . 
There were others whom he would please much better by not talking shop at all . 
Although he could ill afford it , he subscribed now for a daily paper that he might have a perpetually renewed source of good conversational topics for these more worldly calls . 
Alice , he felt , was not helping him in this matter as effectively as he could have wished . 
Her attitude toward the church in Octavius might best be described by the word sulky . 
Great allowance was to be made , he realized , for her humiliation over the flowers in her bonnet . 
That might justify her , fairly enough , in being kept away from meeting now and again by headaches , or undefined megrims . 
She did go to some extent , it is true , but she produced , in doing so , an effect of performing a duty . 
He did not find traces anywhere of her having created a brilliant social impression . 
When they went out together , he was peculiarly conscious of having to do the work unaided . 
This was not at all like the Alice of former years , of other charges . 
Why , she had been , beyond comparison , the most popular young woman in Tyre . 
It could not be suggested that she was ill . 
Never in her life had she been looking so well . 
She had thrown herself , all at once , and with what was to him an unaccountable energy , into the creation and management of a flower garden . 
She was out the better part of every day , rain or shine , digging , transplanting , pruning , pottering generally about among her plants and shrubs . 
This work in the open air had given her an aspect of physical well being which it was impossible to be mistaken about . 
Her husband was glad , of course , that she had found some occupation which at once pleased her and so obviously conduced to health . 
This was so much a matter of course , in fact , that he said to himself over and over again that he was glad . 
It was a part of the evil luck pursuing him that here in this perversely enigmatic Octavius his special gift seemed to be of no use whatever . 
There were times , indeed , when he was tempted to think that bad preaching was what Octavius wanted . 
In the morning , when almost all who attended were his own communicants , he gave them very cautious and edifying doctrinal discourses , treading loyally in the path of the Westminster Confession . 
Thus he filled the church at both services , and put money in its treasury and his own fame before the world . 
Theron had somewhat tentatively tried this on in Octavius . 
His parishioners were of the sort who would have come to church eight times a day on Sunday , instead of two , if occasion offered . 
The yearned for strangers did not come the familiar faces of the morning service all turned up in their accustomed places every evening . 
They were faces which confused and disheartened Theron in the daytime . 
Under the gaslight they seemed even harder and more unsympathetic . 
He timorously experimented with them for an evening or two , then abandoned the effort . 
Once there had seemed the beginning of a chance . 
The richest banker in Octavius a fat , sensual , hog faced old bachelor surprised everybody one evening by entering the church and taking a seat . 
He recalled afterward with something like self disgust the eager , almost tremulous pains he himself took to please this banker . 
There was a part of the sermon , as it had been written out , which might easily give offence to a single man of wealth and free notions of life . 
People said it was a good sermon and after the benediction and dispersion some of the officials and principal pew holders remained to talk over the likelihood of a capture having been effected . 
He was ashamed of this feeling a little later , and of his trick with the sermon . 
But this chastening product of introspection was all the fruit which the incident bore . 
The banker never came again . 
Theron returned one afternoon , a little earlier than usual , from a group of pastoral calls . 
Alice , who was plucking weeds in a border at the shady side of the house , heard his step , and rose from her labors . 
He was walking slowly , and seemed weary . 
He took off his high hat , as he saw her , and wiped his brow . 
The broiling June sun was still high overhead . 
Doubtless it was its insufferable heat which was accountable for the worn lines in his face and the spiritless air which the wife's eye detected . 
She went to the gate , and kissed him as he entered . 
I believe if I were you , she said , I'd carry an umbrella such scorching days as this . 
Nobody'd think anything of it . 
I don't see why a minister shouldn't carry one as much as a woman carries a parasol . 
Theron gave her a rueful , meditative sort of smile . 
I suppose people really do think of us as a kind of hybrid female , he remarked . 
Then , holding his hat in his hand , he drew a long breath of relief at finding himself in the shade , and looked about him . 
Why , you've got more posies here , on this one side of the house alone , than mother had in her whole yard , he said , after a little . 
Let's see I know that one that's columbine , isn't it ? And that's London pride , and that's ragged robin . 
I don't know any of the others . 
Alice recited various unfamiliar names , as she pointed out the several plants which bore them , and he listened with a kindly semblance of interest . 
They strolled thus to the rear of the house , where thick clumps of fragrant pinks lined both sides of the path . 
She picked some of these for him , and gave him more names with which to label the considerable number of other plants he saw about him . 
I had no idea we were so well provided as all this , he commented at last . 
Those Van Sizers must have been tremendous hands for flowers . 
You were lucky in following such people . 
Van Sizers ! echoed Alice , with contempt . 
All they left was old tomato cans and clamshells . 
Why , I've put in every blessed one of these myself , all except those peonies , there , and one brier on the side wall . 
Good for you ! exclaimed Theron , approvingly . 
Sister Bult gave me the verbenas , there , and the white pinks were a present from Miss Stevens . 
But most of them Levi Gorringe was good enough to send me from his garden . 
I didn't know that Gorringe had a garden , said Theron . 
I thought he lived over his law office , in the brick block , there . 
Well , I don't know that it's exactly HIS , explained Alice but it's a big garden somewhere outside , where he can have anything he likes . 
It was quite his own offer , you know . 
He picked them all out for me , and brought them here , and lent me a book telling me just what to do with each one . 
And in a few days , now , I am to have another big batch of plants dahlias and zinnias and asters and so on I'm almost ashamed to take them . 
But it's such a change to find some one in this Octavius who isn't all self ! Yes , Gorringe is a good fellow , said Theron . 
I wish he was a professing member . 
Then some new thought struck him . 
Alice , he exclaimed , I believe I'll go and see him this very afternoon . 
I don't know why it hasn't occurred to me before he's just the man whose advice I need most . 
He knows these people here he can tell me what to do . 
Aren't you too tired now ? suggested Alice , as Theron put on his hat . 
No , the sooner the better , he replied , moving now toward the gate . 
Well , she began , if I were you , I wouldn't say too much about that is , I but never mind . 
What is it ? asked her husband . 
Nothing whatever , replied Alice , positively . 
It was only some nonsense of mine and Theron , placidly accepting the feminine whim , went off down the street again . 
Mr. Ware found Levi Gorringe's law office readily enough , but its owner was not in . 
He probably would be back again , though , in a quarter of an hour or so , the boy said , and the minister at once decided to wait . 
Theron was interested in finding that this office boy was no other than Harvey the lad who brought milk to the parsonage every morning . 
The clergyman recalled , too , that Harvey had impressed him as a character . 
Well , I don't know I rather guess not , he made answer , as he pursued his task . 
So far as I can make out , this wouldn't be the place to start in at , if I WAS going to be a lawyer . 
A boy can learn here first rate how to load cartridges and clean a gun , and braid trout flies on to leaders , but I don't see much law laying around loose . 
Anyway , he went on , I couldn't afford to read law , and not be getting any wages . 
I have to earn money , you know . 
Theron felt that he liked the boy . 
Yes , he said , with a kindly tone I've heard that you are a good , industrious youngster . 
I daresay Mr. Gorringe will see to it that you get a chance to read law , and get wages too . 
THAT'S how you learn to be a lawyer . 
But Gorringe don't have what I call a practice at all . 
He just sees men in the other room there , with the door shut , and whatever there is to do he does it all himself . 
The minister remembered a stray hint somewhere that Mr. Gorringe was a money lender what was colloquially called a note shaver . 
To his rustic sense , there was something not quite nice about that occupation . 
It would be indecorous , he felt , to encourage further talk about it from the boy . 
What are you doing there ? he inquired , to change the subject . 
Sorting out some plants , replied Harvey . 
I don't know what's got into Gorringe lately . 
This is the third big box he's had since I've been here that is , in six weeks besides two baskets full of rose bushes . 
I don't know what he does with them . 
He carries them off himself somewhere . 
I've had kind of half a notion that he's figurin' on getting married . 
I can't think of anything else that would make a man spend money like water just for flowers and bushes . 
They do get foolish , you know , when they've got marriage on the brain . 
Theron found himself only imperfectly following the theories of the young philosopher . 
It was his fact that monopolized the minister's attention . 
But as I understand it , he remarked hesitatingly , Brother Gorringe or rather Mr. Gorringe gets all the plants he wants , everything he likes , from a big garden somewhere outside . 
I don't know that it is exactly his but I remember hearing something to that effect . 
The boy slapped the last litter off his hands , and , as he came to the window , shook his head . 
These don't come from no garden outside , he declared . 
They come from the dealers' , and he pays solid cash for 'em . 
The invoice for this lot alone was thirty one dollars and sixty cents . 
There it is on the table . 
You can see it for yourself Mr. Ware did not offer to look . 
Very likely these are for the garden I was speaking of , he said . 
Of course you can't go on taking plants out of a garden indefinitely without putting others in . 
I don't know anything about any garden that he takes plants out of , answered Harvey , and looked meditatively for a minute or two out upon the street below . 
Then he turned to the minister . 
Your wife's doing a good deal of gardening this spring , I notice , he said casually . 
You'd hardly think it was the same place , she's fixed it up so . 
If she wants any extra hoeing done , I can always get off Saturday afternoons . 
I will remember , said Theron . 
He also looked out of the window and nothing more was said until , a few moments later , Mr. Gorringe himself came in . 
The lawyer seemed both surprised and pleased at discovering the identity of his visitor , with whom he shook hands in almost an excess of cordiality . 
Well , Mr. Ware , I'm glad to see you , he repeated , and drew up a chair by the window . 
Things are going all right with you , I hope . 
Theron noted again the waving black hair , the dark skin , and the carefully trimmed mustache and chin tuft which gave the lawyer's face a combined effect of romance and smartness . 
No it was the eyes , cool , shrewd , dark gray eyes , which suggested this latter quality . 
I thought I would drop in and have a chat with you , he said , getting better under way as he went on . 
Quarterly Conference is only a fortnight off , and I am a good deal at sea about what is going to happen . 
I'm not a church member , you know , interposed Gorringe . 
That shuts me out of the Quarterly Conference . 
Alas , yes ! said Theron . 
I'm afraid I'm not going to have any friends to spare there . 
What are you afraid of ? asked the lawyer , seeming now to be wholly at his ease again They can't eat you . 
No , they keep me too lean for that , responded Theron , with a pensive smile . 
I WAS going to ask , you know , for an increase of salary , or an extra allowance . 
I don't see how I can go on as it is . 
The sum fixed by the last Quarterly Conference of the old year , and which I am getting now , is one hundred dollars less than my predecessor had . 
That isn't fair , and it isn't right . 
But so far from its looking as if I could get an increase , the prospect seems rather that they will make me pay for the gas and that sidewalk . 
I never recovered more than about half of my moving expenses , as you know , and and , frankly , I don't know which way to turn . 
It keeps me miserable all the while . 
That's where you're wrong , said Mr. Gorringe . 
If you let things like that worry you , you'll keep a sore skin all your life . 
You take my advice and just go ahead your own gait , and let other folks do the worrying . 
They ARE pretty close fisted here , for a fact , but you can manage to rub along somehow . 
The main thing is , don't fret , and don't allow your wife to to fret either . 
He looked at Levi Gorringe , and said to himself that the intuition of women was wonderful . 
Alice had picked him out as a friend of theirs merely by seeing him pass the house . 
Yes , he said I am specially anxious to keep my wife from worrying . 
I had quite decided to get her a hired girl , come what might , but she thinks she'd rather get on without one . 
Her health is better , I must admit , than it was when we came here . 
She works out in her garden a great deal , and that seems to agree with her . 
Octavius is a healthy place that's generally admitted , replied the lawyer , with indifference . 
Theron made haste to revert to his errand . 
Of course , your not being in the Quarterly Conference , he said , renders certain things impossible . 
But I didn't know but you might have some knowledge of how matters are going , what plans the officials of the church had they seem to have agreed to tell me nothing . 
Well , I HAVE heard this much , responded Gorringe . 
They're figuring on getting the Soulsbys here to raise the debt and kind o' shake things up generally . 
I guess that's about as good as settled . 
Hadn't you heard of it ? Not a breath ! exclaimed Theron , mournfully . 
Well , he added upon reflection , I'm sorry , downright sorry . 
The debt raiser seems to me about the lowest down thing we produce . 
I've heard of those Soulsbys I think I saw HIM indeed once at Conference , but I believe SHE is the head of the firm . 
Yes she wears the breeches , I understand , said Gorringe sententiously . 
But somehow that has failed here . 
I doubt if the average congregations are a whit larger now than they were when I came in April . 
I know the collections are not . 
No , commented the lawyer , slowly you'll never do anything in that line in Octavius . 
You might , of course , if you were to stay here and work hard at it for five or six years Heaven forbid ! groaned Mr. Ware . 
Quite so , put in the other . 
The point is that the Methodists here are a little set by themselves . 
I don't know that they like one another specially , but I do know that they are not what you might call popular with people outside . 
Now , a new preacher at the Presbyterian church , or even the Baptist he might have a chance to create talk , and make a stir . 
But Methodist no ! People who don't belong won't come near the Methodist church here so long as there's any other place with a roof on it to go to . 
Give a dog a bad name , you know . 
Well , the Methodists here have got a bad name and if you could preach like Henry Ward Beecher himself you wouldn't change it , or get folks to come and hear you . 
I see what you mean , Theron responded . 
I'm not particularly surprised myself that Octavius doesn't love us , or look to us for intellectual stimulation . 
I myself leave that pulpit more often than otherwise feeling like a wet rag utterly limp and discouraged . 
But , if you don't mind my speaking of it , YOU don't belong , and yet YOU come . 
It was evident that the lawyer did not mind . 
He spoke freely in reply . 
Oh , yes , I've got into the habit of it . 
I began going when I first came here , and and so it grew to be natural for me to go . 
I suppose your people were Methodists , said Theron , to fill in the pause , and that is how you originally started with us . 
Levi Gorringe shook his head . 
He leaned back , half closed his eyes , put his finger tips together , and almost smiled as if something in retrospect pleased and moved him . 
No , he said I went to the church first to see a girl who used to go there . 
It was long before your time . 
All her family moved away years ago . 
You wouldn't know any of them . 
I was younger then , and I didn't know as much as I do now . 
I worshipped the very ground that girl walked on , and like a fool I never gave her so much as a hint of it . 
Looking back now , I can see that I might have had her if I'd asked her . 
But I went instead and sat around and looked at her at church and Sunday school and prayer meetings Thursday nights , and class meetings after the sermon . 
She was devoted to religion and church work and , thinking it would please her , I joined the church on probation . 
Men can fool themselves easier than they can other people . 
I actually believed at the time that I had experienced religion . 
I felt myself full of all sorts of awakenings of the soul and so forth . 
But it was really that girl . 
You see I'm telling you the thing just as it was . 
I think it was the happiest time of my life . 
That was the nearest I ever got to her , or to full membership in the church . 
That very next week , I think it was , we learned that she had got engaged to the minister's son a young man who had just become a minister himself . 
They got married , and went away and I somehow I never took up my membership when the six months' probation was over . 
It is very interesting , remarked Theron , softly , after a little silence and very full of human nature . 
They wouldn't have understood it at all . 
They would have thought it was blasphemy for me to say straight out that what I took for experiencing religion was really a girl . 
I felt that at once , the first time I saw you . 
In a pulpit or out of it , what I like in a human being is that he SHOULD be human . 
It pleases me beyond measure that you should like me , then returned the young minister , with frank gratification shining on his face . 
The world is made all the sweeter and more lovable by these these elements of romance . 
I am not one of those who would wish to see them banished or frowned upon . 
Ha , ha ! That's good ! laughed the lawyer . 
I felt that it was good , too , pursued Theron . 
I am getting to see a great many things differently , here in Octavius . 
Our Methodist Discipline is like the Beatitudes very helpful and beautiful , if treated as spiritual suggestion , but more or less of a stumbling block if insisted upon literally . 
I declare ! he added , sitting up in his chair , I never talked like this to a living soul before in all my life . 
Mr. Ware rose as he spoke , and took up his hat . 
Must you be going ? asked the lawyer , also rising . 
Well , I'm glad I haven't shocked you . 
Come in oftener when you are passing . 
And if you see anything I can help you in , always tell me . 
The two men shook hands , with an emphatic and lingering clasp . 
I am glad , said Theron , that you didn't stop coming to church just because you lost the girl . 
Levi Gorringe answered the minister's pleasantry with a smile which curled his mustache upward , and expanded in little wrinkles at the ends of his eyes . 
No , he said jestingly . 
I'm death on collecting debts and I reckon that the church still owes me a girl . 
So , with merriment the echoes of which pleasantly accompanied Theron down the stairway , the two men parted . 
It was a Thursday , and the prayer meeting to be held that evening would be the last before the Quarterly Conference , now only four days off . 
For some reason , the young minister found himself dwelling upon this fact , and investing it with importance . 
But yesterday the Quarterly Conference had seemed a long way ahead . 
Today brought it alarmingly close to hand . 
He had not heretofore regarded the weekly assemblage for prayer and song as a thing calling for preparation , or for any preliminary thought . 
Sometimes he reached the point of vaguely wondering why this strictly commonplace affair should be forcing itself thus upon his attention . 
Then , with a kind of mental shiver at the recollection that this was Thursday , and that the great struggle came on Monday , he would go back to his book . 
There were a half dozen volumes on the open desk before him . 
He had taken them out from beneath a pile of old Sunday School Advocates and church magazines , where they had lain hidden from Alice's view most of the week . 
Ledsmar , recalling a pleasant evening in May , and expressing the hope that the accompanying works would be of some service . 
Theron had glanced at the backs of the uppermost two , and discovered that their author was Renan . 
Then he had hastily put the lot in the best place he could think of to escape his wife's observation . 
He realized now that there had been no need for this secrecy . 
Of the other four books , by Sayce , Budge , Smith , and Lenormant , three indeed revealed themselves to be published under religious auspices . 
As for Renan , he might have known that the name would be meaningless to Alice . 
Theron Ware read this all with an excited interest which no book had ever stirred in him before . 
Much of it he read over and over again , to make sure that he penetrated everywhere the husk of French habits of thought and Catholic methods in which the kernel was wrapped . 
He broke off midway in this part of the book to go out to the kitchen to dinner , and began the meal in silence . 
To Alice's questions he replied briefly that he was preparing himself for the evening's prayer meeting . 
She lifted her brows in such frank surprise at this that he made a further and somewhat rambling explanation about having again taken up the work on his book the book about Abraham . 
I thought you said you'd given that up altogether , she remarked . 
Well , he said , I WAS discouraged about it for a while . 
But a man never does anything big without getting discouraged over and over again while he's doing it . 
I don't say now that I shall write precisely THAT book I'm merely reading scientific works about the period , just now but if not that , I shall write some other book . 
Else how will you get that piano ? he added , with an attempt at a smile . 
I thought you had given that up , too ! she replied ruefully . 
Then before he could speak , she went on Never mind the piano that can wait . 
What I've got on my mind just now isn't piano it's potatoes . 
And Sister Barnum met me on the street this morning , and threw it in my face that the Discipline commands us to trade with each other . 
Is there any such command ? Yes , said the husband . 
Don't you remember ? I looked it up in Tyre . 
Yes , it's all there . 
I believe I'll read up that old Discipline myself , and see if it hasn't got some things that I can talk back with . 
The very section before that , Number , enjoins members against 'uncharitable or unprofitable conversation particularly speaking evil of magistrates or ministers . 
You'd have 'em there , I think . 
Theron had begun cheerfully enough , but the careworn , preoccupied look returned now to his face . 
I'm sorry if we've fallen out with the Barnums , he said . 
His brother in law , Davis , the Sunday school superintendent , is a member of the Quarterly Conference , you know , and I've been hoping that he was on my side . 
I've been taking a good deal of pains to make up to him . 
He ended with a sigh , the pathos of which impressed Alice . 
If you think it will do any good , she volunteered , I'll go and call on the Davises this very afternoon . 
I'm sure to find her at home , she's tied hand and foot with that brood of hers and you'd better give me some of that candy for them . 
Theron nodded his approval and thanks , and relapsed into silence . 
When the meal was over , he brought out the confectionery to his wife , and without a word went back to that remarkable book . 
To her surprise , the young minister seemed not at all interested . 
He hardly looked at her during her narrative , but reclined in the easy chair with his head thrown back , and an abstracted gaze wandering aimlessly about the ceiling . 
I expected you'd be tickled to death , she remarked , with evident disappointment . 
I've a bad headache , he explained , after a minute's pause . 
No wonder ! Alice rejoined , sympathetically enough , but with a note of reproof as well . 
What can you expect , staying cooped up in here all day long , poring over those books ? People are all the while remarking that you study too much . 
You know lots and slathers more than THEY do now , or ever will , if you never opened another book . 
Theron regarded her with an expression which she had never seen on his face before . 
You don't realize what you are saying , he replied slowly . 
She bent over to kiss him lightly on the brow , and tiptoed her way out into the kitchen . 
I believe I will let you make my excuses at the prayer meeting this evening , he said all at once , as the supper came to an end . 
He had eaten next to nothing during the meal , and had sat in a sort of brown study from which Alice kindly forbore to arouse him . 
I don't know I hardly feel equal to it . 
They won't take it amiss for once if you explain to them that I I am not at all well . 
Is there anything I can do or shall I go for a doctor ? We've got mustard in the house , and senna I think there's some senna left and Jamaica ginger . 
Theron shook his head wearily at her . 
Oh , no , no ! he expostulated . 
It isn't anything that needs drugs , or doctors either . 
It's just mental worry and fatigue , that's all . 
An evening's quiet rest in the big chair , and early to bed that will fix me up all right . 
But you'll read and that will make your head worse , said Alice . 
That's nice ! I'll just lie quiet here , and perhaps doze a little till you come back . 
I feel in the mood for the rest it will do me all sorts of good . 
He closed his eyes and Alice , regarding his upturned face anxiously , decided that already it looked more at peace than awhile ago . 
Well , I hope you'll be better when I get back , she said , as she began preparations for the evening service . 
Thus attired , she made a mischievous little grimace of dislike at her puritanical image in the looking glass over the mantel , and then turned to announce her departure . 
Well , I'm off , she said . 
Theron opened his eyes to take in this figure of his wife dressed for prayer meeting , and then closed them again abruptly . 
All right , he murmured , and then he heard the door shut behind her . 
Although he had been alone all day , there seemed to be quite a unique value and quality in this present solitude . 
Theron's musings were broken in upon from time to time by rumbling outbursts of hymn singing from the church next door . 
Surely , he said to himself , there could be no other congregation in the Conference , or in all Methodism , which sang so badly as these Octavians did . 
They drawled their hymns too , these people , till Theron thought he understood that injunction in the Discipline against singing too slowly . 
It had puzzled him heretofore now he felt that it must have been meant in prophecy for Octavius . 
The startled and crowded impressions of that strange evening had been lying hidden in his mind all this while , driven into a corner by the pressure of more ordinary , everyday matters . 
They came forth now , and passed across his brain no longer confusing and distorted , but in orderly and intelligible sequence . 
Their earlier effect had been one of frightened fascination . 
The young minister had arrived , all at once , at this conclusion . 
He did not question at all the means by which he had reached it . 
Nothing was clearer to his mind than the conclusion itself that his meeting , with the priest and the doctor was the turning point in his career . 
They had lifted him bodily out of the slough of ignorance , of contact with low minds and sordid , narrow things , and put him on solid ground . 
The very thought that he was on the way now to know them , too , made Theron tremble . 
The prospect wooed him , and he thrilled in response , with the wistful and delicate eagerness of a young lover . 
Renan had formally repudiated Catholicism , yet could write in his old age with the deepest filial affection of the Mother Church he had quitted . 
Father Forbes could talk coolly about the Christ myth without even ceasing to be a priest , and apparently a very active and devoted priest . 
The thought so dazzled him that his impulses were dragging him forward to take the new oath of allegiance before he had had time to reflect upon what it was he was abandoning . 
The droning of the Doxology from the church outside stirred Theron suddenly out of his revery . 
It had grown quite dark , and he rose and lit the gas . 
Blest be the Tie that Binds , they were singing . 
He paused , with hand still in air , to listen . 
That well worn phrase arrested his attention , and gave itself a new meaning . 
He was bound to those people , it was true , but he could never again harbor the delusion that the tie between them was blessed . 
There was vaguely present in his mind the consciousness that other ties were loosening as well . 
Be that as it might , one thing was certain . 
He had passed definitely beyond pretending to himself that there was anything spiritually in common between him and the Methodist Church of Octavius . 
The necessity of his keeping up the pretence with others rose on the instant like a looming shadow before his mental vision . 
He turned away from it , and bent his brain to think of something else . 
The noise of Alice opening the front door came as a pleasant digression . 
He had come mighty near forgetting that he was an invalid , and he protected himself the further now by assuming an air of lassitude verging upon prostration . 
Yes there's a light burning . 
It's all right , he heard Alice say . 
She entered the room , and Theron's head was too bad to permit him to turn it , and see who her companion was . 
Theron dear , Alice began , I knew you'd be glad to see HER , even if you were out of sorts and I persuaded her just to run in for a minute . 
Let me introduce you to Sister Soulsby . 
Mr. Ware sat upright with an energetic start , and fastened upon the stranger a look which conveyed anything but the satisfaction his wife had been so sure about . 
Delighted , I'm sure , he mumbled . 
Then , looking up , he discovered that Sister Soulsby knew he was not delighted , and that she seemed not to mind in the least . 
As your good lady said , I just ran in for a moment , she remarked , shaking his limp hand with a brisk , business like grasp , and dropping it . 
I hate bothering sick people , but as we're to be thrown together a good deal this next week or so , I thought I'd like to lose no time in saying 'howdy . 
I won't keep you up now . 
Your wife has been sweet enough to ask me to move my trunk over here in the morning , so that you'll see enough of me and to spare . 
Theron looked falteringly into her face , as he strove for words which should sufficiently mask the disgust this intelligence stirred within him . 
A debt raiser in the town was bad enough ! A debt raiser quartered in the very parsonage ! he ground his teeth to think of it . 
Alice read his hesitation aright . 
She accompanied this by so daring a grimace and nod that her husband woke up to the fact that a point in Conference politics was involved . 
He squeezed a doubtful smile upon his features . 
We shall both do our best , he said . 
It was not easy , but he forced increasing amiability into his glance and tone . 
Is Brother Soulsby here , too ? he asked . 
The debt raiser shook her head again the prompt , decisive movement , so like a busy man of affairs . 
He's doing supply down on the Hudson this week , but he'll be here in time for the Sunday morning love feast . 
I always like to come on ahead , and see how the land lies . 
Well , good night ! Your head will be all right in the morning . 
Precisely what she meant by this assurance , Theron did not attempt to guess . 
This mental concession did not prevent his fixing upon Alice , when she returned to the room , a glance of obvious disapproval . 
Theron , she broke forth , to anticipate his reproach , I did it for the best . 
The Pierces would have got her if I hadn't cut in . 
I thought it would help to have her on our side . 
And , besides , I like her . 
Oh , I guess I wouldn't , said Theron , with an approach to his old , half playful manner . 
If you like her , that's the chief thing . 
Alice shook her tear drops away . 
No , she replied , with a wistful smile the chief thing is to have her like you . 
She's as smart as a steel trap that woman is and if she took the notion , I believe she could help get us a better place . 
CHAPTER XIV The ensuing week went by with a buzz and whirl , circling about Theron Ware's dizzy consciousness like some huge , impalpable teetotum sent spinning under Sister Soulsby's resolute hands . 
Whenever his vagrant memory recurred to it , in after months , he began by marvelling , and ended with a shudder of repulsion . 
It was a week crowded with events , which seemed to him to shoot past so swiftly that in effect they came all of a heap . 
He never essayed the task , in retrospect , of arranging them in their order of sequence . 
They had , however , a definite and interdependent chronology which it is worth the while to trace . 
She desired nothing so much , she said , as that people should not put themselves out on her account , or allow her to get in their way . 
She appeared to mean this , too , and to have very good ideas about securing its realization . 
During both Friday and the following day , indeed , Theron saw her only at the family meals . 
She in turn plied him with inquiries about the principal pew holders and members of his congregation their means , their disposition , and the measure of their devotion . 
But at the time her fine air of appreciation led him captive . 
He gossiped about his parishioners as if he enjoyed it . 
He made a specially happy thumb nail sketch for her of one of his trustees , Erastus Winch , the loud mouthed , ostentatiously jovial , and really cold hearted cheese buyer . 
She was particularly interested in hearing about this man . 
Save at meal times , Sister Soulsby spent the two days out around among the Methodists of Octavius . 
She had little or nothing to say about what she thus saw and heard , but used it as the basis for still further inquiries . 
She told more than once , however , of how she had been pressed here or there to stay to dinner or supper , and how she had excused herself . 
I've knocked about too much , she would explain to the Wares , not to fight shy of random country cooking . 
When I find such a born cook as you are well I know when I'm well off . 
Alice flushed with pleased pride at this , and Theron himself felt that their visitor showed great good sense . 
By Saturday noon , the two women were calling each other by their first names . 
Theron learned with a certain interest that Sister Soulsby's Christian name was Candace . 
It was only natural that he should give even more thought to her than to her quaint and unfamiliar old Ethiopian name . 
She was undoubtedly a very smart woman . 
To his surprise she had never introduced in her talk any of the stock religious and devotional phrases which official Methodists so universally employed in mutual converse . 
She might have been an insurance agent , or a school teacher , visiting in a purely secular household , so little parade of cant was there about her . 
He caught himself wondering how old she was . 
She seemed to have been pretty well over the whole American continent , and that must take years of time . 
Perhaps , however , the exertion of so much travel would tend to age one in appearance . 
Her eyes were still youthful decidedly wise eyes , but still juvenile . 
They had sparkled with almost girlish merriment at some of his jokes . 
She turned them about a good deal when she spoke , making their glances fit and illustrate the things she said . 
He had never met any one whose eyes played so constant and prominent a part in their owner's conversation . 
The rest of Sister Soulsby was undoubtedly subordinated in interest to those eyes of hers . 
Sometimes her face seemed to be reviving temporarily a comeliness which had been constant in former days then again it would look decidedly , organically , plain . 
It was the worn and loose skinned face of a nervous , middle aged woman , who had had more than her share of trouble , and drank too much tea . 
He knew that she was born in the South because she said so . 
But almost all her talk was in another key a brisk , direct , idiomatic manner of speech , with an intonation hinting at no section in particular . 
It was merely that of the city dweller as distinguished from the rustic . 
She was of about Alice's height , perhaps a shade taller . 
It was on this occasion that Alice in turn told Theron she was sure Mrs. Soulsby had false teeth a confidence which she immediately regretted as an act of treachery to her sex . 
On Saturday afternoon , toward evening , Brother Soulsby arrived , and was guided to the parsonage by his wife , who had gone to the depot to meet him . 
Her husband was a man of small stature and , like herself , of uncertain age . 
He had a gentle , if rather dry , clean shaven face , and wore his dust colored hair long behind . 
His little figure was clad in black clothes of a distinctively clerical fashion , and he had a white neck cloth neatly tied under his collar . 
This lady , holding herself erect and alert on the edge of the low , big easy chair had the air of presiding over a meeting . 
Mr. Soulsby and I can take charge in the evening , and we'll see to it that THAT packs the house fills the church to overflowing Monday evening . 
Then we'll quietly turn the meeting into a debt raising convention , before they know where they are , and we'll wipe off the best part of the load . 
Now , don't you see , she turned her eyes full upon Theron as she spoke , you want to hold your Quarterly Conference AFTER this money's been raised , not before . 
I see what you mean , Mr. Ware responded gravely . 
But But what ! Sister Soulsby interjected , with vivacity . 
Leave that to me , said the lady . 
Why , man alive , that's the best part of it . 
You ought to be getting some notion by this time what these Octavius folks of yours are like . 
I've only been here two days , but I've got their measure down to an allspice . 
Supposing you were to announce tomorrow that the debt was to be raised Monday . 
Right ? Why , of course I'm right , she said , with placid confidence . 
You've got to take folks as you find them and you've got to find them the best way you can . 
One place can be worked , managed , in one way , and another needs quite a different way , and both ways would be dead frosts complete failures in a third . 
Brother Soulsby coughed softly here , and shuffled his feet for an instant on the carpet . 
His wife resumed her remarks with slightly abated animation , and at a slower pace . 
My experience , she said , has shown me that the Apostle was right . 
To properly serve the cause , one must be all things to all men . 
I have known very queer things indeed turn out to be means of grace . 
You simply CAN'T get along without some of the wisdom of the serpent . 
We are commanded to have it , for that matter . 
All I know is he isn't likely to come here , he said , and added sadly , I'm afraid he's not an admirer of mine . 
Perhaps that's not all his fault , commented Sister Soulsby . 
Of course he couldn't come I knew well enough he had promised old Pierce but we got in our invitation anyway , and it won't do you any harm . 
Now , that's what I call having some gumption wisdom of the serpent , and so on . 
I'm sure , remarked Alice , I should have been mortified to death if he had come . 
We lost the extension leaf to our table in moving , and four is all it'll seat decently . 
Sister Soulsby smiled winningly into the wife's honest face . 
Don't you see , dear , she explained patiently , I only asked him because I knew he couldn't come . 
A little butter spreads a long way , if it's only intelligently warmed . 
It was certainly very ingenious of you , Theron began almost stiffly . 
Then he yielded to the humanities , and with a kindling smile added , And it was as kind as kind could be . 
I'm afraid you're wrong about it's doing me any good , but I can see how well you meant it , and I'm grateful . 
We COULD have sneaked in the kitchen table , perhaps , while he was out in the garden , and put on the extra long tablecloth , interjected Alice , musingly . 
I'm going to insist on coming out to help you , Mrs. Soulsby declared , as soon as I've talked over one little matter with your husband . 
Oh , yes , you must let me this time . 
They heard his footsteps on the gravel beneath the window before Mrs. Soulsby spoke again . 
You're right about the Presiding Elder , and you're wrong , she said . 
He isn't what one might call precisely in love with you . 
Oh , I know the story how you got into debt at Tyre , and he stepped in and insisted on your being denied Tecumseh and sent here instead . 
HE was responsible for that , then , was he ? broke in Theron , with contracted brows . 
Sister Soulsby gave a little involuntary groan of impatience . 
My friend , she began , with a new note of impressiveness in her voice , if you'll pardon my saying it , you haven't got the spunk of a mouse . 
If you're going to lay down , and let everybody trample over you just as they please , you're right ! You MIGHT as well go home . 
But now here , this is what I wanted to say to you Do you just keep your hands off these next few days , and leave this whole thing to me . 
I'll pull it into shipshape for you . 
No wait a minute don't interrupt now . 
I have taken a liking to you . 
You've got brains , and you've got human nature in you , and heart . 
What you lack is SABE common sense . 
You'll get that , too , in time , and meanwhile I'm not going to stand by and see you cut up and fed to the dogs for want of it . 
I'll get you through this scrape , and put you on your feet again , right side up with care , because , as I said , I like you . 
I like your wife , too , mind . 
She's a good , honest little soul , and she worships the very ground you tread on . 
Of course , as long as people WILL marry in their teens , the wrong people will get yoked up together . 
But that's neither here nor there . 
She's a kind sweet little body , and she's devoted to you , and it isn't every intellectual man that gets even that much . 
But now it's a go , is it ? You promise to keep quiet , do you , and leave the whole show absolutely to me ? Shake hands on it . 
Sister Soulsby had risen , and stood now holding out her hand in a frank , manly fashion . 
He caught the shine of a thin bracelet band of gold under the sleeve . 
A delicate , significant odor just hinted its presence in the air about this outstretched arm something which was not a perfume , yet deserved as gracious a name . 
He rose to his feet , and took the proffered hand with a deliberate gesture , as if he had been cautiously weighing all the possible arguments for and against this momentous compact . 
I promise , he said gravely , and the two palms squeezed themselves together in an earnest clasp . 
Right you are , exclaimed the lady , once more with cheery vivacity . 
Mind , when it's all over , I'm going to give you a good , serious , downright talking to a regular hoeing over . 
I'm not sure I shan't give you a sound shaking into the bargain . 
And now I'm going out to help Alice . 
The Reverend Mr. Ware remained standing after his new friend had left the room , and his meditative face wore an even unusual air of abstraction . 
What remained uppermost in his mind was not this interesting woman's confident pledge of championship in his material difficulties . 
He found himself dwelling instead upon her remark about the incongruous results of early marriages . 
He wondered idly if the little man in the white tie , fussing out there over that rhododendron bush , had figured in her thoughts as an example of these evils . 
Then he reflected that they had been mentioned in clear relation to talk about Alice . 
Now that he faced this question , it was as if he had been consciously ignoring and putting it aside for a long time . 
And outsiders were apparently beginning to notice it . 
He knew by intuition what those phrases , good , honest little soul and kind , sweet little body signified , when another woman used them to a husband about his wife . 
What she had said about the chronic misfortunes of intellectual men in such matters gave added point to those meaning phrases . 
Nobody could deny that geniuses and men of conspicuous talent had as a rule , all through history , contracted unfortunate marriages . 
In almost every case where their wives were remembered at all , it was on account of their abnormal stupidity , or bad temper , or something of that sort . 
Take Xantippe , for example , and Shakespeare's wife , and and well , there was Byron , and Bulwer Lytton , and ever so many others . 
Of course there was nothing to be done about it . 
These things happened , and one could only put the best possible face on them , and live one's appointed life as patiently and contentedly as might be . 
And Alice undoubtedly merited all the praise which had been so generously bestowed upon her . 
She was good and honest and kindly , and there could be no doubt whatever as to her utter devotion to him . 
These were tangible , solid qualities , which must always secure respect for her . 
It was true that she no longer seemed to be very popular among people . 
He questioned whether men , for instance , like Father Forbes and Dr . 
Ledsmar would care much about her . 
For it was plain enough that the men whose friendship would be of genuine and stimulating profit to him would not like her . 
Now that he thought of it , she seemed latterly to make no friends at all . 
There was a curious exception to that rule of Alice's isolation . 
She had made at least one friend . 
Levi Gorringe seemed to like her extremely . 
As if his mind had been a camera , Theron snapped a shutter down upon this odd , unbidden idea , and turned away from the window . 
The sounds of an active , almost strenuous conversation in female voices came from the kitchen . 
Theron opened the door noiselessly , and put in his head , conscious of something furtive in his intention . 
You must dreen every drop of water off the spinach , mind , before you put it over , or else It was Sister Soulsby's sharp and penetrating tones which came to him . 
Theron closed the door again , and surrendered himself once more to the circling whirl of his thoughts . 
CHAPTER XV A love feast at nine in the morning opened the public services of a Sunday still memorable in the annals of Octavius Methodism . 
This ceremony , which four times a year preceded the sessions of the Quarterly Conference , was not necessarily an event of importance . 
He had literally to force himself from sentence to sentence , when the time came for him to rise and open the proceedings with an exhortation . 
He had eagerly offered this function to the Presiding Elder , the Rev . 
Aziel P. Larrabee , who sat in severe silence on the little platform behind him , but had been informed that the dignitary would lead off in giving testimony later on . 
So Theron , feeling all the while the hostile eyes of the Elder burning holes in his back , dragged himself somehow through the task . 
He had never known any such difficulty of speech before . 
He delivered this injunction to brevity with marked earnestness , and then sat down abruptly . 
They held by the old custom , here in Octavius , and all along the seats the sexes alternated , as they do at a polite dinner table . 
Theron impassively watched the familiar scene . 
The early nervousness had passed away . 
He felt now that he was not in the least afraid of these people , even with the Presiding Elder thrown in . 
He had never realized before what a spectacle the Methodist love feast probably presented to outsiders . 
What must they think of it ! He had noticed that the Soulsbys sat together , in the centre and toward the front . 
Next to Brother Soulsby sat Alice . 
Another head was in the way , and for a time Theron did not observe who sat beside Alice on the other side . 
When at last he saw that it was Levi Gorringe , his instinct was to wonder what the lawyer must be saying to himself about these noisy and shallow enthusiasts . 
There was some vague memory in his mind which associated Gorringe with other love feasts , and with a cynical attitude toward them . 
Oh , yes ! he had told how he went to one just for the sake of sitting beside the girl he admired and was pursuing . 
The stewards had completed their round , and the loud , discordant singing came to an end . 
There ensued a little pause , during which Theron turned to the Presiding Elder with a gesture of invitation to take charge of the further proceedings . 
The Elder responded with another gesture , calling his attention to something going on in front . 
They stood thus until complete silence had been secured . 
Then the woman , lifting her head , began to sing . 
The words were Rock of Ages , but no one present had heard the tune to which she wedded them . 
Her voice was full and very sweet , and had in it tender cadences which all her hearers found touching . 
She knew how to sing , and she put forth the words so that each was distinctly intelligible . 
There came a part where Brother Soulsby , lifting his head in turn , took up a tuneful second to her air . 
What followed seemed obviously restrained and modified by the effect of this unlooked for and tranquillizing overture . 
The most tempestuous of the local witnesses for the Lord gave in their testimony in relatively pacific tones , under the influence of the spell which good music had laid upon the gathering . 
There was the deepest interest as to what the two visitors would do in this way . 
Brother Soulsby spoke first , very briefly and in well rounded and well chosen , if conventional , phrases . 
His wife , following him , delivered in a melodious monotone some equally hackneyed remarks . 
The Soulsbys had captured Octavius with their first outer skirmish line . 
Everything seemed to move forward now with a new zest and spontaneity . 
It was orthodox enough , but had been planned as the framework for picturesque and emotional rhetoric rather than doctrinal edification . 
He had never dreamed of trying it on Octavius before , and only on the yesterday had quavered at his own daring in choosing it now . 
Nothing but the desire to show Sister Soulsby what was in him had held him to the selection . 
Something of this same desire no doubt swayed and steadied him now in the pulpit . 
The congregation watched and listened with open , steadfast eyes and parted lips . 
For the first time in all that weary quarter , their faces shone . 
The sustaining sparkle of their gaze lifted him to a peroration unrivalled in his own recollection of himself . 
He sat down , and bent his head forward upon the open Bible , breathing hard , but suffused with a glow of satisfaction . 
His ears caught the music of that sighing rustle through the audience which bespeaks a profound impression . 
He could scarcely keep the fingers of his hands , covering his bowed face in a devotional posture as they were , from drumming a jubilant tattoo . 
His pulses did this in every vein , throbbing with excited exultation . 
His mind perversely kept hold of the thought that all this came too late . 
He politely smiled his way along out , and , overtaking the Soulsbys and his wife near the parsonage gate , went in with them . 
A Sabbath chill seemed to have settled upon both their tongues . 
They ate almost in silence , and their sparse remarks touched upon topics far removed from church affairs . 
Alice too , seemed strangely disinclined to conversation . 
The husband knew her face and its varying moods so well that he could see she was laboring under some very powerful and deep emotion . 
No doubt it was the sermon , the oratorical swing of which still tingled in his own blood , that had so affected her . 
If she had said so , it would have pleased him , but she said nothing . 
After dinner , Brother Soulsby disappeared in his bedroom , with the remark that he guessed he would lie down awhile . 
Sister Soulsby put on her bonnet , and , explaining that she always prepared herself for an evening's work by a long solitary walk , quitted the house . 
Alice , after she had put the dinner things away , went upstairs , and stayed there . 
Left to himself , Theron spent the afternoon in the easy chair , and , in the intervals of confused introspection , read Recollections of my Youth through again from cover to cover . 
He went through the remarkable experiences attending the opening of the revival , when evening came , as one in a dream . 
The Elder preached a short , but vigorously phrased sermon . 
The Soulsbys sang three or four times on each occasion with familiar hymnal words set to novel , concerted music and then separately exhorted the assemblage . 
The husband's part seemed well done . 
If his speech lacked some of the fire of the divine girdings which older Methodists recalled , it still led straight , and with kindling fervency , up to a season of power . 
The wife took up the word as he sat down . 
Those who watched her words most intently got the least sense of meaning from them . 
What Sister Soulsby said did not matter . 
You have heard us sing , she said , smiling to apologize for her shortness of breath . 
It did not need Sister Soulsby's urgent and dramatic gesture to lift people to their feet . 
The whole assemblage sprang up , and , under the guidance of these two powerful leading voices , thundered the hymn out as Octavius had never heard it before . 
While its echoes were still alive , the woman began speaking again . 
Don't sit down ! she cried . 
You would stand up if the President of the United States was going by , even if he was only going fishing . 
How much more should you stand up in honor of living souls passing forward to find their Saviour ! The psychological moment was upon them . 
Groans and cries arose , and a palpable ferment stirred the throng . 
A triumphant outburst of welcoming ejaculations swelled to the roof as she knelt there , and under its impetus others followed her example . 
Theron Ware did not , with the others , descend from the pulpit . 
Seated where he could not see Sister Soulsby , he had failed utterly to be moved by the wave of enthusiasm she had evoked . 
What he heard her say disappointed him . 
He had expected from her more originality , more spice of her own idiomatic , individual sort . 
He viewed with a cold sense of aloofness the evidences of her success when they began to come forward and abase themselves at the altar . 
The instant resolve that , come what might , he would not go down there among them , sprang up ready made in his mind . 
He saw his two companions pass him and descend the pulpit stairs , and their action only hardened his resolution . 
If an excuse were needed , he was presiding , and the place to preside in was the pulpit . 
But he waived in his mind the whole question of an excuse . 
After a little , he put his hand over his face , leaning the elbow forward on the reading desk . 
The scene below would have thrilled him to the marrow six months yes , three months ago . 
He put a finger across his eyes now , to half shut it out . 
He was conscious of a dawning sense of shame at being even tacitly responsible for such a thing . 
His fancy conjured up the idea of Dr . 
Ledsmar coming in and beholding this maudlin and unseemly scene , and he felt his face grow hot at the bare thought . 
Looking through his fingers , Theron all at once saw something which caught at his breath with a sharp clutch . 
The young pastor could scarcely credit his sight . 
Then , remembering himself , he drew back and put up his hand , shutting out the strange scene altogether . 
To see nothing at all was a relief , and under cover he closed his eyes , and bit his teeth together . 
A fresh outburst of thanksgivings , spreading noisily through the congregation , prompted him to peer through his fingers again . 
Levi Gorringe was making his way down the aisle was at the moment quite in front . 
Theron found himself watching this man with the stern composure of a fatalist . 
He knew that Gorringe was coming forward to kneel beside Alice The knowledge left him curiously undisturbed . 
The two touched shoulders as they bent forward beneath Sister Soulsby's outstretched hands , held over them as in a blessing . 
Theron looked fixedly at them , and professed to himself that he was barely interested . 
A little afterward , he was standing up in his place , and reading aloud a list of names which one of the stewards had given him . 
They were the names of those who had asked that evening to be taken into the church as members on probation . 
A continuous buzzing went on there , so that the sound of his voice was far off and unfamiliar in his ears . 
He read through the list comprising some fifteen items and pronounced the names with great distinctness . 
It was necessary to take pains with this , because the only name his blurred eyes seemed to see anywhere on the foolscap sheet was that of Levi Gorringe . 
When he had finished and was taking his seat , some one began speaking to him from the body of the church . 
He saw that this was the steward , who was explaining to him that the most important name of the lot that of Brother Gorringe had not been read out . 
Theron smiled and shook his head . 
Then he sat down abruptly , and let his head fall to one side . 
There were hurried movements inside the pulpit , and people in the audience had begun to stand up wonderingly , when the Presiding Elder , with uplifted hands , confronted them . 
We will omit the Doxology , and depart quietly after the benediction , he said . 
Brother Ware seems to have been overcome by the heat . 
CHAPTER XVI When Theron woke next morning , Alice seemed to have dressed and left the room a thing which had never happened before . 
It crossed his mind that probably she had risen and got away noiselessly , for very shame at looking him in the face , after such absurd behavior . 
Then he remembered more , and grasped the situation . 
He had fainted in church , and had been brought home and helped to bed . 
Dim memories of unaccustomed faces in the bedroom , of nauseous drugs and hushed voices , came to him out of the night time . 
Now that he thought of it , he was a sick man . 
Having settled this , he went off to sleep again , a feverish and broken sleep , and remained in this state most of the time for the following twenty four hours . 
In the brief though numerous intervals of waking , he found certain things clear in his mind . 
One was that he was annoyed with Alice , but would dissemble his feelings . 
Another was that it was much pleasanter to be ill than to be forced to attend and take part in those revival meetings . 
These two ideas came and went in a lazy , drowsy fashion , mixing themselves up with other vagrant fancies , yet always remaining on top . 
In the evening the singing from the church next door filled his room . 
The Soulsbys' part of it was worth keeping awake for . 
He turned over and deliberately dozed when the congregation sang . 
Alice came up a number of times during the day to ask how he felt , and to bring him broth or toast water . 
She had a depressed and thoughtful air , and spoke to him like one whose mind was on something else . 
Neither of them alluded to what had happened the previous evening . 
Toward the close of the long day , she came to ask him whether he would prefer her to remain in the house , instead of attending the meeting . 
Go , by all means , he said almost curtly . 
There had been an enormous crowd , even greater than that of Sunday night , and everybody had been looking forward to another notable and exciting season of grace . 
These expectations were especially heightened when Sister Soulsby ascended the pulpit stairs and took charge of the proceedings . 
But it was something else that happened . 
The doors would only be opened again when this had been accomplished . 
Its charm of harmony for once fell upon unsympathetic ears . 
She was so droll and cheeky , and withal effective in her talk , that she quite won the crowd over . 
She told a story about a woodchuck which fairly brought down the house . 
You think you can't raise , , but you've GOT to . 
Under the pressure of these jumbled emotions , brethren began to rise up in their pews and say what they would give . 
The wonderful woman had something smart and apt to say about each fresh contribution , and used it to screw up the general interest a notch further toward benevolent hysteria . 
Moved by a common instinct , all eyes were turned upon Levi Gorringe , and he , without the slightest hesitation , stood up and said he would give . 
This gladiatorial combat might have been going on till now , the Sunday school superintendent concluded , if Winch hadn't subsided . 
The amount of the contributions hadn't been figured up yet , for Sister Soulsby kept the list but there had been a tremendous lot of money raised . 
Of that there could be no doubt . 
The Presiding Elder now told Theron that the Quarterly Conference had been adjourned yesterday till today . 
He and Brother Davis were even now on their way to attend the session in the church next door . 
The Elder added , with an obvious kindly significance , that though Theron was too ill to attend it , he guessed his absence would do him no harm . 
Then the two men left the room , and Theron went to sleep again . 
Another almost blank period ensued , this time lasting for forty eight hours . 
The young minister was enfolded in the coils of a fever of some sort , which Brother Soulsby , who had dabbled considerably in medicine , admitted that he was puzzled about . 
Sometimes he thought that it was typhoid , and then again there were symptoms which looked suspiciously like brain fever . 
Brother Soulsby showed a most comforting tact and swiftness of apprehension when Alice , in mentioning Dr . 
Ledsmar's name , disclosed by her manner a fear that his being sent for would create talk among the church people . 
He volunteered at once to act as messenger himself , and , with no better guide than her dim hints at direction , found the doctor and brought him back to the parsonage . 
Ledsmar came , and was taken up to the sick room . 
He sat on the bedside and talked with Theron awhile , and then went downstairs again . 
To Alice's anxious inquiries , he replied that it seemed to him merely a case of over work and over worry , about which there was not the slightest occasion for alarm . 
But he says the strangest things , the wife put in . 
He has been quite delirious at times . 
That means only that his brain is taking a rest as well as his body , remarked Ledsmar . 
That is Nature's way of securing an equilibrium of repose of recuperation . 
He will come out of it with his mind all the fresher and clearer . 
I don't believe he knows shucks ! was Alice's comment when she closed the street door upon Dr . 
Anybody could have come in and looked at a sick man and said , 'Leave him alone . 
You expect something more from a doctor . 
It's his business to say what to do . 
Well , it isn't my idea of a friend not to prescribe a single thing , protested Alice . 
Yet it seemed that no prescription was needed , after all . 
The next morning Theron woke to find himself feeling quite restored in spirits and nerves . 
He sat up in bed , and after an instant of weakly giddiness , recognized that he was all right again . 
Greatly pleased , he got up , and proceeded to dress himself . 
There were little recurring hints of faintness and vertigo , while he was shaving , but he had the sense to refer these to the fact that he was very , very hungry . 
He went downstairs , and smiled with the pleased pride of a child at the surprise which his appearance at the door created . 
Alice and the Soulsbys were at breakfast . 
He joined them , and ate voraciously , declaring that it was worth a month's illness to have things taste so good once more . 
You still look white as a sheet , said Alice , warningly . 
If I were you , I'd be careful in my diet for a spell yet . 
For answer , Theron let Sister Soulsby help him again to ham and eggs . 
He talked exclusively to Sister Soulsby , or rather invited her by his manner to talk to him , and listened and watched her with indolent content . 
He felt himself figuratively leaning against Sister Soulsby's buoyant personality , and resting . 
Brother Soulsby , like the intelligent creature he was , ate his breakfast in peace but Alice would interpose remarks from time to time . 
Theron was conscious of a certain annoyance at this , and knew that he was showing it by an exaggerated display of interest in everything Sister Soulsby said , and persisted in it . 
For the moment , he desired only to be amused by Sister Soulsby . 
Her casual mention of the fact that she and her husband were taking their departure that very day , appealed to him as an added reason for devoting his entire attention to her . 
You mustn't forget that famous talking to you threatened me with that 'regular hoeing over , you know , he reminded her , when he found himself alone with her after breakfast . 
He smiled as he spoke , in frank enjoyment of the prospect . 
Sister Soulsby nodded , and aided with a roll of her eyes the effect of mock menace in her uplifted forefinger . 
Oh , never fear , she cried . 
You'll catch it hot and strong . 
But that'll keep till afternoon . 
By the way , you haven't asked what happened at the Quarterly Conference yesterday . 
Theron sighed , and made a little grimace of repugnance . 
If you knew how little I cared ! he said . 
I did hope you'd forget all about mentioning that and everything else connected with the next door . 
You talk so much more interestingly about other things . 
Here's gratitude for you ! exclaimed Sister Soulsby , with a gay simulation of despair . 
The result was you went through as if you'd had your ears pinned back , and been greased all over . 
, and so you're in clover . 
And very friendly things were said about you , too . 
It was very kind of you , said Theron . 
I am really extremely grateful to you . 
He shook her by the hand to make up for what he realized to be a lack of fervor in his tones . 
Oh , THEY'RE my friends now , are they ? asked Theron , with a faint play of irony about his lips . 
Yes , that's your ticket this election , she answered briskly , and mind you vote it straight . 
Don't bother about reasons now . 
Just take it from me , as the song says , 'that things have changed since Willie died . 
And then come back here , and this afternoon we'll have a good old fashioned jaw . 
Mr. Ware , walking with ostentatious feebleness , and forcing a conventional smile upon his wan face , duly made his unexpected appearance at the trustees' meeting in one of the smaller classrooms . 
He received their congratulations gravely , and shook hands with all three . 
It required an effort to do this impartially , because , upon sight of Levi Gorringe , there rose up suddenly within him an emotion of fierce dislike and enmity . 
In some enigmatic way his thoughts had kept themselves away from Gorringe ever since Sunday evening . 
Now they concentrated with furious energy and swiftness upon him . 
These raced abreast through the young minister's brain , yet with each its own image , and its relation to the others clearly defined . 
The work before the meeting was chiefly of a routine kind . 
No issue arose upon any of these trivial affairs , and the minister , feeling faint and weary in the heat , wondered why Sister Soulsby had insisted on his coming . 
All at once he sat up straight , with an instinctive warning in his mind that here was the thing . 
Gorringe had taken up the subject of the debt raising evening , and read out its essentials as they had been embodied in a report of the stewards . 
The gross sum obtained , in cash and promises , was , . 
The stewards had collected of this a trifle less than half , but hoped to get it all in during the ensuing quarter . 
I want to hear the names of the subscribers and their amounts read out , put in Brother Pierce . 
When this was done , it became apparent that much more than half of the entire amount had been offered by two men . 
Levi Gorringe's and Erastus Winch's left only to be divided up among some seventy or eighty other members of the congregation . 
Brother Pierce speedily stopped the reading of these subordinate names . 
They're of no concern whatever , he said , despite the fact that his own might have been reached in time . 
Those first names are what I was getting at . 
Have those two first amounts , the big ones , be'n paid ? One has the other not , replied Gorringe . 
PRE cisely , remarked the senior trustee . 
And I'm goin' to move that it needn't be paid , either . 
When Brother Winch , here , began hollerin' out those extra twenty fives and fifties , that evening , it was under a complete misapprehension . 
He'd be'n on the Cheese Board that same Monday afternoon , and he'd done what he thought was a mighty big stroke of business , and he felt liberal according . 
I know just what that feelin' is myself . 
If I'd be'n makin' a mint o' money , instead o' losin' all the while , as I do , I'd 'a' done just the same . 
But the next day , lo , and behold , Brother Winch found that it was all a mistake he hadn't made a single penny . 
Fact is , I lost by the whole transaction , put in Erastus Winch , defiantly . 
Just so , Brother Pierce went on . 
You have his own word for it . 
And I move he be not asked for it . 
We've got quite as much as we need , without it . 
That is , YOU don't put it , suggested Winch , correctingly . 
You move it , and Brother Ware , whom we're all so glad to see able to come and preside he'll put it . 
There was a moment's silence . 
You've heard the motion , said Theron , tentatively , and then paused for possible remarks . 
He was not going to meddle in this thing himself , and Gorringe was the only other who might have an opinion to offer . 
The necessities of the situation forced him to glance at the lawyer inquiringly . 
He did so , and turned his eyes away again like a shot . 
Gorringe was looking him squarely in the face , and the look was freighted with satirical contempt . 
The young minister spoke between clinched teeth . 
All those in favor will say aye . 
Brothers Pierce and Winch put up a simultaneous and confident Aye . 
No , you don't ! interposed the lawyer , with deliberate , sneering emphasis . 
I decidedly protest against Winch's voting . 
He's directly interested , and he mustn't vote . 
Your chairman knows that perfectly well . 
Yes , I think Brother Winch ought not to vote , decided Theron , with great calmness . 
He saw now what was coming , and underneath his surface composure there were sharp flutterings . 
Very well , then , said Gorringe . 
I vote no , and it's a tie . 
It rests with the chairman now to cast the deciding vote , and say whether this interesting arrangement shall go through or not . 
Me ? said Theron , eying the lawyer with a cool self control which had come all at once to him . 
Me ? Oh , I vote Aye . 
The notion impelled him to plunge at once into the heart of their mystery . 
Yes , that's the way we're built . 
We spend our lives doing that sort of thing . 
I don't know that you would precisely grasp my meaning , said the young minister , with a polite effort in his words to mask the untoward side of the suggestion . 
It is a matter of conscience with me and I am pained and shocked at myself . 
Sister Soulsby drummed for an absent moment with her thin , nervous fingers on the desk top . 
I guess maybe you'd better go and lie down again , she said gently . 
You're a sick man , still , and it's no good your worrying your head just now with things of this sort . 
You'll see them differently when you're quite yourself again . 
No , no , pleaded Theron . 
Do let us have our talk out ! I'm all right . 
My mind is clear as a bell . 
Truly , I've really counted on this talk with you . 
But there's something else to talk about , isn't there , besides besides your conscience ? she asked . 
Her eyes bent upon him a kindly pressure as she spoke , which took all possible harshness from her meaning . 
Theron answered the glance rather than her words . 
I know that you are my friend , he said simply . 
Sister Soulsby straightened herself , and looked down upon him with a new intentness . 
Well , then , she began , let's thrash this thing out right now , and be done with it . 
You say it's hurt your conscience to do just one little hundredth part of what there was to be done here . 
Ask yourself what you mean by that . 
Mind , I'm not quarrelling , and I'm not thinking about anything except just your own state of mind . 
You think you soiled your hands by doing what you did . 
That is to say , you wanted ALL the dirty work done by other people . 
That's it , isn't it ? The Rev . 
Mr. Ware sat up , in turn , and looked doubtingly into his companion's face . 
Oh , we were going to be frank , you know , she added , with a pleasant play of mingled mirth and honest liking in her eyes . 
No , he said , picking his words , my point would rather be that that there ought not to have been any of what you yourself call this this 'dirty work . 
Now we're getting at it , said Sister Soulsby , briskly . 
My dear friend , you might just as well say that potatoes are unclean and unfit to eat because manure is put into the ground they grow in . 
Just look at the case . 
Your church here was running behind every year . 
Your people had got into a habit of putting in nickels instead of dimes , and letting you sweat for the difference . 
That's a habit , like tobacco , or biting your fingernails , or anything else . 
Either you were all to come to smash here , or the people had to be shaken up , stood on their heads , broken of their habit . 
It's my business mine and Soulsby's to do that sort of thing . 
We came here and we did it did it up brown , too . 
It isn't only the extra hundred dollars , but the whole tone of the congregation is changed toward you now . 
You'll see that they'll be asking to have you back here , next spring . 
And you're solid with your Presiding Elder , too . 
But but it was the means I had in mind . 
Quite so , rejoined the sister , patiently . 
If you saw the way a hotel dinner was cooked , you wouldn't be able to stomach it . 
Did you ever see a play ? In a theatre , I mean . 
But you'll understand when I say that the performance looks one way from where the audience sit , and quite a different way when you are behind the scenes . 
THERE you see that the trees and houses are cloth , and the moon is tissue paper , and the flying fairy is a middle aged woman strung up on a rope . 
That doesn't prove that the play , out in front , isn't beautiful and affecting , and all that . 
It only shows that everything in this world is produced by machinery by organization . 
And I say , don't be such a goose ! I see what you mean , Theron said , with an answering smile . 
He added , more gravely , All the same , the Winch business seems to me Now the Winch business is my own affair , Sister Soulsby broke in abruptly . 
I take all the responsibility for that . 
You need know nothing about it . 
You simply voted as you did on the merits of the case as he presented them that's all . 
But Theron began , and then paused . 
Something had occurred to him , and he knitted his brows to follow its course of expansion in his mind . 
Suddenly he raised his head . 
Then you arranged with Winch to make those bogus offers just to lead others on ? he demanded . 
Sister Soulsby's large eyes beamed down upon him in reply , at first in open merriment , then more soberly , till their regard was almost pensive . 
Let us talk of something else , she said . 
All that is past and gone . 
It has nothing to do with you , anyway . 
I've got some advice to give you about keeping up this grip you've got on your people . 
The young minister had risen to his feet while she spoke . 
He put his hands in his pockets , and with rounded shoulders began slowly pacing the room . 
After a turn or two he came to the desk , and leaned against it . 
I doubt if it's worth while going into that , he said , in the solemn tone of one who feels that an irrevocable thing is being uttered . 
She waited to hear more , apparently . 
I think I shall go away give up the ministry , he added . 
Sister Soulsby's eyes revealed no such shock of consternation as he , unconsciously , had looked for . 
They remained quite calm and when she spoke , they deepened , to fit her speech , with what he read to be a gaze of affectionate melancholy one might say pity . 
She shook her head slowly . 
No don't let any one else hear you say that , she replied . 
My poor young friend , it's no good to even think it . 
The real wisdom is to school yourself to move along smoothly , and not fret , and get the best of what's going . 
I've known others who felt as you do of course there are times when every young man of brains and high notions feels that way but there's no help for it . 
Those who tried to get out only broke themselves . 
Those who stayed in , and made the best of it well , one of them will be a bishop in another ten years . 
Theron had started walking again . 
But the moral degradation of it ! he snapped out at her over his shoulder . 
I'd rather earn the meanest living , at an honest trade , and be free from it . 
That may all be , responded Sister Soulsby . 
But it isn't a question of what you'd rather do . 
It's what you can do . 
Theron stopped and stared at her . 
This view of his capabilities came upon him with the force and effect of a blow . 
I don't discover , myself , he began stumblingly , that I'm so conspicuously inferior to the men I see about me who do make livings , and very good ones , too . 
Of course you're not , she replied with easy promptness you're greatly the other way , or I shouldn't be taking this trouble with you . 
But you're what you are because you're where you are . 
The moment you try on being somewhere else , you're done for . 
In all this world nobody else comes to such unmerciful and universal grief as the unfrocked priest . 
The phrase sent Theron's fancy roving . 
I know a Catholic priest , he said irrelevantly , who doesn't believe an atom in in things . 
Very likely , said Sister Soulsby . 
But you don't hear him talking about going and earning his living , I'll bet ! Or if he does , he takes powerful good care not to go , all the same . 
They've got horse sense , those priests . 
They know how to allow for the machinery behind the scenes . 
But it's all so different , urged the young minister the same things are not expected of them . 
I can't stand it now . 
I won't go back to it ! Nothing shall make me ! Oh h , yes , you will , she rejoined soothingly . 
There's nothing else to do . 
You were speaking of the revival business . 
Now that exemplifies just what I was saying it's a part of our machinery . 
Now a church is like everything else , it's got to have a boss , a head , an authority of some sort , that people will listen to and mind . 
The Catholics are different , as you say . 
Their church is chuck full of authority all the way from the Pope down to the priest and accordingly they do as they're told . 
But the Protestants your Methodists most of all they say 'No , we won't have any authority , we won't obey any boss . 
We do , and that's why we've got it . 
But the mean dishonesty of it all ! Theron broke forth . 
He moved about again , his bowed face drawn as with bodily suffering . 
The low born tricks , the hypocrisies ! I feel as if I could never so much as look at these people here again without disgust . 
Oh , now that's where you make your mistake , Sister Soulsby put in placidly . 
These people of yours are not a whit worse than other people . 
They've got their good streaks and their bad streaks , just like the rest of us . 
Take them by and large , they're quite on a par with other folks the whole country through . 
I don't believe there's another congregation in the Conference where where this sort of thing would have been needed , or , I might say , tolerated , insisted Theron . 
Perhaps you're right , the other assented but that only shows that your people here are different from the others not that they're worse . 
You don't seem to realize Octavius , so far as the Methodists are concerned , is twenty or thirty years behind the times . 
Now that has its advantages and its disadvantages . 
It scours the rust and mildew off from their piety , and they go back singing and shouting . 
But of course it's had a different effect with you . 
You're razor steel instead of scythe steel , and the grinding's been too rough and violent for you . 
But you see what I mean . 
These people here really take their primitive Methodism seriously . 
To them the profession of entire sanctification is truly a genuine thing . 
Well , don't you see , when people just know that they're saved , it doesn't seem to them to matter so much what they do . 
They feel that ordinary rules may well be bent and twisted in the interest of people so supernaturally good as they are . 
It's always been like that . 
Theron paused in his walk to look absently at her . 
That thought , he said , in a vague , slow way , seems to be springing up in my path , whichever way I turn . 
Just you come and sit down here . 
I hate to have you straddling about the room when I'm trying to talk to you . 
Theron obeyed , and as he sank into the low seat , Sister Soulsby drew up her chair , and put her hand on his shoulder . 
Her gaze rested upon his with impressive steadiness . 
And now I want to talk seriously to you , as a friend , she began . 
You mustn't breathe to any living soul the shadow of a hint of this nonsense about leaving the ministry . 
Well , perhaps I like you all the better for not having it for being so delightfully fresh . 
At any rate , that made me sail in and straighten your affairs for you . 
And now , for God's sake , keep them straight . 
Just put all notions of anything else out of your head . 
Watch your chief men and women , and be friends with them . 
Keep your eye open for what they think you ought to do , and do it . 
Have your own ideas as much as you like , read what you like , say 'Damn' under your breath as much as you like , but don't let go of your job . 
I've knocked about too much , and I've seen too many promising young fellows cut their own throats for pure moonshine , not to have a right to say that . 
Theron could not be insensible to the friendly hand on his shoulder , or to the strenuous sincerity of the voice which thus adjured him . 
Well , he said vaguely , smiling up into her earnest eyes , if we agree that it IS moonshine . 
See here ! she exclaimed , with renewed animation , patting his shoulder in a brisk , automatic way , to point the beginnings of her confidences I'll tell you something . 
The young minister took in the thought , and turned it about in his mind , and smiled upon it . 
And that brings me to what I'm going to tell you , Sister Soulsby continued . 
She leaned back in her chair , and crossed her knees so that one well shaped and artistically shod foot poised itself close to Theron's hand . 
Her eyes dwelt upon his face with an engaging candor . 
I began life , she said , as a girl by running away from a stupid home with a man that I knew was married already . 
After that , I supported myself for a good many years generally , at first , on the stage . 
I've been a front ranker in Amazon ballets , and I've been leading lady in comic opera companies out West . 
I've told fortunes in one room of a mining camp hotel where the biggest game of faro in the Territory went on in another . 
Now , that's MY record . 
Theron looked earnestly at her , and said nothing . 
And now take Soulsby , she went on . 
Of course I take it for granted there's a good deal that he has never felt called upon to mention . 
He hasn't what you may call a talkative temperament . 
But there is also a good deal that I do know . 
He's been an actor , too , and to this day I'd back him against Edwin Booth himself to recite 'Clarence's Dream . 
In fact , he was what you may call a regular bad old rooster . 
Again Theron suffered the pause to lapse without comment save for an amorphous sort of conversation which he felt to be going on between his eyes and those of Sister Soulsby . 
Well , then , she resumed , so much for us apart . 
We liked each other from the start . 
We had a little money enough to see us through a year or two . 
After it was all over each of us found that the other had been mighty near going up to the rail and joining the mourners . 
And another thing had occurred to each of us , too that is , what tremendous improvements there were possible in the way that amateur revivalist worked up his business . 
This stuck in our crops , and we figured on it all through the winter . 
Well , to make a long story short , we finally went into the thing ourselves . 
Tell me one thing , interposed Theron . 
I'm anxious to understand it all as we go along . 
Not only once dozens of times I may say every time . 
We couldn't do good work if we weren't . 
But that's a matter of temperament of emotions . 
That was what I was getting at , explained Theron . 
Well , then , hear what I was getting at , she went on . 
You were talking very loudly here about frauds and hypocrisies and so on , a few minutes ago . 
Now I say that Soulsby and I do good , and that we're good fellows . 
Now take him , for example . 
There isn't a better citizen in all Chemung County than he is , or a kindlier neighbor , or a better or more charitable man . 
The man's whole livelihood , and his family's , was in that horse and when it died , Soulsby bought him another , and never told even ME about it . 
Now that I call real piety , if you like . 
So do I , put in Theron , cordially . 
And this question of fraud , pursued his companion , look at it in this light . 
Well , now , I was a singer , of course , but Soulsby hardly knew one note from another . 
I taught him to sing , and he went at it patiently and diligently , like a little man . 
And I invented that scheme of finding tunes which the crowd didn't know , and so couldn't break in on and smother . 
He couldn't sing by himself any more than a crow , but he's got those sixths of his down to a hair . 
Now that's machinery , management , organization . 
We take these tunes , written by a devil may care Pole who was living with George Sand openly at the time , and pass 'em off on the brethren for hymns . 
It's a fraud , yes but it's a good fraud . 
So they are all good frauds . 
I say frankly that I'm glad that the change and the chance came to help Soulsby and me to be good frauds . 
And the point is that I'm to be a good fraud , too , commented the young minister . 
She had risen , and he got to his feet as well . 
He instinctively sought for her hand , and pressed it warmly , and held it in both his , with an exuberance of gratitude and liking in his manner . 
Sister Soulsby danced her eyes at him with a saucy little shake of the head . 
I'm afraid you'll never make a really GOOD fraud , she said . 
You haven't got it in you . 
Your intentions are all right , but your execution is hopelessly clumsy . 
I must have thought it was my wife , said Theron . 
After the stirring events of the revival , it was only to be expected that this routine , home made affair should suffer from a reaction . 
The attendance was larger than usual , perhaps , but the proceedings were spiritless and tame . 
Long pauses intervened between the perfunctory praise offerings and supplications , and the hymns weariedly raised from time to time fell again in languor by the wayside . 
Alice came in just as people were beginning to hope that some one would start the Doxology , and bring matters to a close . 
They left her , and could hardly wait to get into the vestibule to ask one another in whispers what on earth she could have been crying about . 
Meanwhile Brother Ware improved his convalescent state by pacing slowly up and down under the elms on the side of the street opposite the Catholic church . 
Then he turned to Alice , who had also accompanied them in the carriage , and was conscious of a certain annoyance at her having come . 
That long familiar talk of the afternoon had given him the feeling that he was entitled to bid farewell to Sister Soulsby to both the Soulsbys by himself . 
If we get back in time , I'll run in for a minute , answered Alice , with docility . 
No no , he broke in . 
I'm not equal to walking so fast . 
You run on ahead , and explain matters , and I will come along slowly . 
The hack we came in is still there in the yard , the wife suggested . 
We could drive home in that . 
I don't believe it would cost more than a quarter and if you're feeling badly But I am NOT feeling badly , Theron replied , with frank impatience . 
Only I feel I feel that being alone with my thoughts would be good for me . 
Oh , certainly by all means ! Alice had said , and turned sharply on her heel . 
Being alone with these thoughts , Theron strolled aimlessly about , and did not think at all . 
The shadows gathered , and fireflies began to disclose their tiny gleams among the shrubbery in the gardens . 
A lamp lighter came along , and passed him , leaving in his wake a straggling double line of lights , glowing radiantly against the black green of the trees . 
This recalled to Theron that he had heard that the town council lit the street lamps by the almanac , and economized gas when moonshine was due . 
The idea struck him as droll , and he dwelt upon it in various aspects , smiling at some of its comic possibilities . 
Looking up in the middle of one of these whimsical conceits , the sportive impulse died suddenly within him . 
He realized that it was dark , and that the massive black bulk reared against the sky on the other side of the road was the Catholic church . 
The other fact , that he had been there walking to and fro for some time , was borne in upon him more slowly . 
No doubt it was what Sister Soulsby had said about Catholics which had insensibly guided his purposeless stroll in this direction . 
She must have been extremely pretty once . 
For that matter she still was a most attractive looking woman . 
He liked that phrase she had used about herself a good fellow . 
It seemed to fit her to a t . 
And Soulsby was a good fellow too . 
All at once it occurred to him to wonder whether they were married or not . 
But really that was no affair of his , he reflected . 
A citizen of the intellectual world should be above soiling his thoughts with mean curiosities of that sort , and he drove the impertinent query down again under the surface of his mind . 
He refused to tolerate , as well , sundry vagrant imaginings which rose to cluster about and literalize the romance of her youth which Sister Soulsby had so frankly outlined . 
The only genuine happiness in life must consist in having bright , smart , attractive women like that always about . 
The lights were visible now in the upper rooms of Father Forbes' pastorate across the way . 
Theron paused for a second to consider whether he wanted to go over and call on the priest . 
He decided that mentally he was too fagged and flat for such an undertaking . 
To know such women ah , that would never fall to his hapless lot . 
The priest's lamps blinked at him through the trees . 
He remembered that priests were supposed to be even further removed from the possibilities of such contact than he was himself . 
His memory reverted to that horribly ugly old woman whom Father Forbes had spoken of as his housekeeper . 
Life under the same roof with such a hag must be even worse than worse than The young minister did not finish the comparison , even in the privacy of his inner soul . 
He stood instead staring over at the pastorate , in a kind of stupor of arrested thought . 
Theron felt a little shiver run over him , as if the delicate coolness of the changing night air had got into his blood . 
The window was open , and his strained hearing thought it caught the sound of faint laughter . 
He continued to gaze at the place where the vision had appeared , the while a novel and strange perception unfolded itself upon his mind . 
He had come there in the hope of encountering Celia Madden . 
Now that he looked this fact in the face , there was nothing remarkable about it . 
In truth , it was simplicity itself . 
He was still a sick man , weak in body and dejected in spirits . 
The thought of how unhappy and unstrung he was came to him now with an insistent pathos that brought tears to his eyes . 
He was only obeying the universal law of nature the law which prompts the pallid spindling sprout of the potato in the cellar to strive feebly toward the light . 
From where he stood in the darkness he stretched out his hands in the direction of that open window . 
He seemed already to have drawn down into his soul a taste of the refreshment it craved . 
He sighed deeply , and the hot moisture smarted again upon his eyelids , but this time not all in grief . 
With his tender compassion for himself there mingled now a flutter of buoyant prescience , of exquisite expectancy . 
Fate walked abroad this summer night . 
He heard a tuneful woman's voice call out Good night , Maggie , and caught no response save the abrupt closing of the door , which turned everything black again with a bang . 
He listened acutely for another instant , and then with long , noiseless strides made his way down his deserted side of the street . 
He moderated his pace as he turned to cross the road at the corner , and then , still masked by the trees , halted altogether , in a momentary tumult of apprehension . 
No yes it was all right . 
The girl sauntered out from the total darkness into the dim starlight of the open corner . 
Good evening , Mr. Ware , she said , with prompt affability . 
I'm so glad to find you out again . 
We heard you were ill . 
I have been very ill , responded Theron , as they shook hands and walked on together . 
He added , with a quaver in his voice , I am still far from strong . 
I really ought not to be out at all . 
But but the longing for for well , I COULDN'T stay in any longer . 
Even if it kills me , I shall be glad I came out tonight . 
Oh , we won't talk of killing , said Celia . 
I don't believe in illnesses myself But you believe in collapses of the nerves , put in Theron , with gentle sadness , in moral and spiritual and mental breakdowns . 
I remember how I was touched by the way you told me YOU suffered from them . 
I had to take what you said then for granted . 
I had had no experience of it myself . 
But now I know what it is . 
He drew a long , pathetic sigh . 
Oh , DON'T I know what it is ! he repeated gloomily . 
Come , my friend , cheer up , Celia purred at him , in soothing tones . 
He felt that there was a deliciously feminine and sisterly intuition in her speech , and in the helpful , nurse like way in which she drew his arm through hers . 
He leaned upon this support , and was glad of it in every fibre of his being . 
Do you remember ? You promised that last time I saw you to play for me , he reminded her . 
They were passing the little covered postern door at the side and rear of the church as he spoke , and he made a half halt to point the coincidence . 
Oh , there's no one to blow the organ , she said , divining his suggestion . 
And I haven't the key and , besides , the organ is too heavy and severe for an invalid . 
It would overwhelm you tonight . 
Not as you would know how to play it for me , urged Theron , pensively . 
I feel as if good music to night would make me well again . 
I am really very ill and weak and unhappy ! The girl seemed moved by the despairing note in his voice . 
She invited him by a sympathetic gesture to lean even more directly on her arm . 
Come home with me , and I'll play Chopin to you , she said , in compassionate friendliness . 
He is the real medicine for bruised and wounded nerves . 
You shall have as much of him as you like . 
The idea thus unexpectedly thrown forth spread itself like some vast and inexpressibly alluring vista before Theron's imagination . 
The spice of adventure in it fascinated his mind as well , but for a shrinking moment the flesh was weak . 
I'm afraid your people would would think it strange , he faltered and began also to recall that he had some people of his own who would be even more amazed . 
Nonsense , said Celia , in fine , bold confidence , and with a reassuring pressure on his arm . 
I allow none of my people to question what I do . 
They never dream of such a preposterous thing . 
Besides , you will see none of them . 
Mrs. Madden is at the seaside , and my father and brother have their own part of the house . 
I shan't listen for a minute to your not coming . 
Come , I'm your doctor . 
I'm to make you well again . 
There would be servants about , he presumed , and very likely they would recognize him , and of course they would talk about it to Tom , Dick and Harry afterward . 
But he said to himself defiantly that he didn't care . 
He withdrew his arm from hers as they came upon the well lighted main street . 
He passed no one who seemed to know him . 
Presently they came to the Madden place , and Celia , without waiting for the gravelled walk , struck obliquely across the lawn . 
Theron , who had been lagging behind with a certain circumspection , stepped briskly to her side now . 
I feel a new man already , he declared , as they swung along on the grass . 
He breathed a long sigh of content , and drew nearer , so that their shoulders touched now and again as they walked . 
In a minute more they were standing on the doorstep , and Theron heard the significant jingle of a bunch of keys which his companion was groping for in her elusive pocket . 
He was conscious of trembling a little at the sound . 
It seemed that , unlike other people , the Maddens did not have their parlor on the ground floor , opening off the front hall . 
Theron stood in the complete darkness of this hall , till Celia had lit one of several candles which were in their hand sticks on a sort of sideboard next the hat rack . 
At the head of the flight , Celia led the way along a wide corridor to where it ended . 
She pushed its heavy folds aside , and unlocked another door . 
He passed under the curtain behind her , and closed the door . 
The room into which he had made his way was not at all after the fashion of any parlor he had ever seen . 
In the obscure light it was difficult to tell what it resembled . 
He made out what he took to be a painter's easel , standing forth independently in the centre of things . 
There were rows of books on rude , low shelves . 
Against one of the two windows was a big , flat writing table or was it a drawing table ? littered with papers . 
Under the other window was a carpenter's bench , with a large mound of something at one end covered with a white cloth . 
On a table behind the easel rose a tall mechanical contrivance , the chief feature of which was a thick upright spiral screw . 
The floor was of bare wood stained brown . 
The walls of this queer room had photographs and pictures , taken apparently from illustrated papers , pinned up at random for their only ornament . 
Celia had lighted three or four other candles on the mantel . 
She caught the dumfounded expression with which her guest was surveying his surroundings , and gave a merry little laugh . 
This is my workshop , she explained . 
I keep this for the things I do badly things I fool with . 
All the things that make a mess which has to be cleaned up they are kept out here because this is as far as the servants are allowed to come . 
She unlocked still another door as she spoke a door which was also concealed behind a curtain . 
CHAPTER XIX Theron Ware looked about him with frankly undisguised astonishment . 
The room in which he found himself was so dark at first that it yielded little to the eye , and that little seemed altogether beyond his comprehension . 
His gaze helplessly followed Celia and her candle about as she busied herself in the work of illumination . 
When she had finished , and pinched out the taper , there were seven lights in the apartment lights beaming softly through half opaque alternating rectangles of blue and yellow glass . 
They must be set in some sort of lanterns around against the wall , he thought , but the shape of these he could hardly make out . 
Gradually his sight adapted itself to this subdued light , and he began to see other things . 
A less untutored vision than his would have caught more swiftly the scheme of color and line in which these works of art bore their share . 
Between these pilasters were broader panels of stamped leather , in gently varying shades of peacock blue . 
These contrasted colors vaguely interwove and mingled in what he could see of the shadowed ceiling far above . 
They were repeated in the draperies and huge cushions and pillows of the low , wide divan which ran about three sides of the room . 
Between the two apertures rose against the wall what Theron took at first glance to be an altar . 
Celia lighted some of the high , thick tapers in these candelabra , and opened the top of the casket . 
Theron saw with surprise that she had uncovered the keyboard of a piano . 
Make yourself comfortable anywhere , she said , with a gesture which comprehended all the divans and pillows in the place . 
Will you smoke ? I have never tried since I was a little boy , said Theron , but I think I could . 
If you don't mind , I should like to see . 
She had thrown aside her hat , and in doing so had half released some of the heavy strands of hair coiled at the back of her head . 
His glance instinctively rested upon this wonderful hair of hers . 
There was no mistaking the sudden fascination its disorder had for his eye . 
She stood before him with the cigarette poised daintily between thumb and finger of a shapely hand , and smiled comprehendingly down on her guest . 
I suffered the horrors of the damned with this hair of mine when I was a child , she said . 
I daresay all children have a taste for persecuting red heads but it's a specialty with Irish children . 
They get hold somehow of an ancient national superstition , or legend , that red hair was brought into Ireland by the Danes . 
It's been a term of reproach with us since Brian Boru's time to call a child a Dane . 
I've got rather away from that ideal since , I'm afraid , she added , with a droll downward curl of her lip . 
Your hair is very beautiful , said Theron , in the calm tone of a connoisseur . 
I like it myself , Celia admitted , and blew a little smoke ring toward him . 
I've made this whole room to match it . 
The colors , I mean , she explained , in deference to his uplifted brows . 
Between us , we make up what Whistler would call a symphony . 
That reminds me I was going to play for you . 
Let me finish the cigarette first . 
Theron felt grateful for her reticence about the fact that he had laid his own aside . 
I have never seen a room at all like this , he remarked . 
You are right it does fit you perfectly . 
She nodded her sense of his appreciation . 
It is what I like , she said . 
I will not have anything about me or anybody either that I don't like . 
I suppose if an old Greek could see it , it would make him sick , but it represents what I mean by being a Greek . 
It is as near as an Irishman can get to it . 
I remember your puzzling me by saying that you were a Greek . 
Celia laughed , and tossed the cigarette end away . 
I'd puzzle you more , I'm afraid , if I tried to explain to you what I really meant by it . 
I divide people up into two classes , you know Greeks and Jews . 
Once you get hold of that principle , all other divisions and classifications , such as by race or language or nationality , seem pure foolishness . 
It is the only true division there is . 
It is just as true among negroes or wild Indians who never heard of Greece or Jerusalem , as it is among white folks . 
That is the beauty of it . 
It works everywhere , always . 
Try it on me , urged Theron , with a twinkling eye . 
Which am I ? Both , said the girl , with a merry nod of the head . 
I told you you were to hear Chopin . 
I prescribe him for you . 
He is the Greekiest of the Greeks . 
THERE was a nation where all the people were artists , where everybody was an intellectual aristocrat , where the Philistine was as unknown , as extinct , as the dodo . 
Chopin might have written his music for them . 
I am interested in Shopang , put in Theron , suddenly recalling Sister Soulsby's confidences as to the source of her tunes . 
He lived with what's his name George something . 
We were speaking about him only this afternoon . 
Celia looked down into her visitor's face at first inquiringly , then with a latent grin about her lips . 
Yes George something , she said , in a tone which mystified him . 
Mr. Ware was sitting up , a minute afterward , in a ferment of awakened consciousness that he had never heard the piano played before . 
After a little , he noiselessly rearranged the cushions , and settled himself again in a recumbent posture . 
It was beyond his strength to follow that first impulse , and keep his mind abreast with what his ears took in . 
He sighed and lay back , and surrendered his senses to the mere unthinking charm of it all . 
With only a moment's pause , there came the Seventh Waltz a rich , bold confusion which yet was not confused . 
Theron's ears dwelt with eager delight upon the chasing medley of swift , tinkling sounds , but it left his thoughts free . 
From where he reclined , he turned his head to scrutinize , one by one , the statues in the corners . 
The others were not robed at all . 
The incongruity between the unashamed statues and this serene incarnation of holy womanhood jarred upon him for the instant . 
Then his mind went to the piano . 
He looked from the Madonna to Celia . 
The sight convicted him in the court of his own soul as a prurient and mean minded rustic . 
It is all singing ! the player called out to him over her shoulder , in a minute of rest . 
Then it came closer to him than the others had done . 
The dreamy , wistful , meditative beauty of it all at once oppressed and inspired him . 
On the instant they had stepped from the dark , scented , starlit garden , where the nightingale sang , into a great cathedral . 
He stood motionless in the strange room , feeling most of all that one should kneel to hear such music . 
This you'll know too the funeral march from the Second Sonata , she was saying , before he realized that the end of the other had come . 
He sank upon the divan again , bending forward and clasping his hands tight around his knees . 
His heart beat furiously as he listened to the weird , mediaeval processional , with its wild , clashing chords held down in the bondage of an orderly sadness . 
There was a propelling motion in the thing a sense of being borne bodily along which affected him like dizziness . 
The clanging minor harmonies into which the march relapses came to their abrupt end . 
Theron rose once more , and moved with a hesitating step to the piano . 
I want to rest a little , he said , with his hand on her shoulder . 
Whew ! so do I , exclaimed Celia , letting her hands fall with an exaggerated gesture of weariness . 
The sonatas take it out of one ! They are hideously difficult , you know . 
I didn't know , remarked Theron . 
She seemed not to mind his hand upon her shoulder , and he kept it there . 
I didn't know anything about music at all . 
What I do know now is that that this evening is an event in my life . 
She looked up at him and smiled . 
The movement was of the faintest , but having ventured it , he drew his hand abruptly away . 
You are getting on , she said to him . 
There was an enigmatic twinkle in the smile with which she continued to regard him . 
We are Hellenizing you at a great rate . 
A sudden thought seemed to strike her . 
The looped curtains fell together behind her . 
Presently a mellow light spread over their delicately translucent surface a creamy , undulating radiance which gave the effect of moving about among the myriad folds of the silk . 
If you would like some more , I will play you the Berceuse now . 
Her voice came to him with a delicious shock . 
He wheeled round and beheld her standing at the piano , with one hand resting , palm upward , on the keys . 
Her tall form was robed now in some shapeless , clinging drapery , lustrous and creamy and exquisitely soft , like the curtains . 
The wonderful hair hung free and luxuriant about her neck and shoulders , and glowed with an intensity of fiery color which made all the other hues of the room pale and vague . 
A fillet of faint , sky like blue drew a gracious span through the flame of red above her temples , and from this there rose the gleam of jewels . 
It is a lullaby the only one he wrote , she said , as Theron , pale faced and with tightened lips , approached her . 
No you mustn't stand there , she added , sinking into the seat before the instrument go back and sit where you were . 
He leaned back upon the cushions , and watched the white , rounded forearm which the falling folds of this strange , statue like drapery made bare . 
There was more that appealed to his mood in the Third Ballade . 
It seemed to him that there were words going along with it incoherent and impulsive yet very earnest words , appealing to him in strenuous argument and persuasion . 
Upon the silence there fell the pure , liquid , mellifluous melody of a soft throated woman singing to her lover . 
It is like Heine simply a love poem , said the girl , over her shoulder . 
Theron followed now with all his senses , as she carried the Ninth Nocturne onward . 
Then , throwing back her head , with upturned face , Celia began what she had withheld for the last the Sixteenth Mazurka . 
He fancied her beholding visions as she wrought the music visions full of barbaric color and romantic forms . 
It could not be helped . 
He lifted himself noiselessly to his feet , and stole with caution toward her . 
There had been some curious and awkward pauses in this last piece , which Theron , by some side cerebration , had put down to her not watching what her fingers did . 
There came another of these pauses now an odd , unaccountable halt in what seemed the middle of everything . 
He stared intently down upon her statuesque , dreaming face during the hush , and caught his breath as he waited . 
There fell at last a few faltering ascending notes , making a half finished strain , and then again there was silence . 
Celia opened her eyes , and poured a direct , deep gaze into the face above hers . 
Its pale lips were parted in suspense , and the color had faded from its cheeks . 
Theron put his hands to his face , and pressed them tightly against eyes and brow for an instant . 
Then , throwing them aside with an expansive downward sweep of the arms , and holding them clenched , he returned Celia's glance . 
It was as if he had never looked into a woman's eyes before . 
It CAN'T be the end ! he heard himself saying , in a low voice charged with deep significance . 
He held her gaze in the grasp of his with implacable tenacity . 
There was a trouble about breathing , and the mosaic floor seemed to stir under his feet . 
He clung defiantly to the one idea of not releasing her eyes . 
Things don't end that way ! A sharp , blinding spasm of giddiness closed upon and shook him , while the brave words were on his lips . 
He blinked and tottered under it , as it passed , and then backed humbly to his divan and sat down , gasping a little , and patting his hand on his heart . 
There was fright written all over his whitened face . 
We we forgot that I am a sick man , he said feebly , answering Celia's look of surprised inquiry with a forced , wan smile . 
I was afraid my heart had gone wrong . 
She scrutinized him for a further moment , with growing reassurance in her air . 
She poured this latter full to the brim of a thick yellowish , aromatic liquid , and gave it him to drink . 
This Benedictine is all I happen to have , she said . 
It will do you good . 
It brought tears to his eyes but , upon reflection , it was grateful and warming . 
He did feel better almost immediately . 
A great wave of comfort seemed to enfold him as he settled himself back on the divan . 
For that one flashing instant he had thought that he was dying . 
He drew a long grateful breath of relief , and smiled his content . 
Celia had seated herself beside him , a little away . 
She sat with her head against the wall , and one foot curled under her , and almost faced him . 
It doesn't do for a man to get to be a Greek all of a sudden . 
He must work along up to it gradually . 
Oh , if I only knew how to tell you , he murmured ecstatically , what a revelation your playing has been to me ! I had never imagined anything like it . 
I shall think of it to my dying day . 
He began to remember as well the spirit that was in the air when the music ended . 
The details of what he had felt and said rose vaguely in his mind . 
Pondering them , his eye roved past Celia's white robed figure to the broad , open doorway beyond . 
The curtains behind which she had disappeared were again parted and fastened back . 
I wish you would tell me what you really mean by that Greek idea of yours , he said with the abruptness of confusion . 
Celia did not display much enthusiasm in the tone of her answer . 
Oh , she said almost indifferently , lots of things . 
Absolute freedom from moral bugbears , for one thing . 
The recognition that beauty is the only thing in life that is worth while . 
The courage to kick out of one's life everything that isn't worth while and so on . 
The memories began crowding in upon him now , and the baffling note upon which the mazurka had stopped short chimed like a tuning fork in his ears . 
I want to be a Greek myself , if you're one . 
I want to get as close to you to your ideal , that is , as I can . 
You open up to me a whole world that I had not even dreamed existed . 
We swore our friendship long ago , you know and now , after tonight you and the music have decided me . 
I am going to put the things out of MY life that are not worthwhile . 
Only you must help me you must tell me how to begin . 
He looked up as he spoke , to enforce the almost tender entreaty of his words . 
The spectacle of a yawn , only fractionally concealed behind those talented fingers , chilled his soft speech , and sent a flush over his face . 
He rose on the instant . 
Celia was nothing abashed at his discovery . 
She laughed gayly in confession of her fault , and held her hand out to let him help her disentangle her foot from her draperies , and get off the divan . 
It seemed to be her meaning that he should continue holding her hand after she was also standing . 
You forgive me , don't you ? she urged smilingly . 
Chopin always first excites me , then sends me to sleep . 
You see how YOU sleep tonight ! The brown , velvety eyes rested upon him , from under their heavy lids , with a languorous kindliness . 
Her warm , large palm clasped his in frank liking . 
I don't want to sleep at all , Mr. Ware was impelled to say . 
I want to lie awake and think about about everything all over again . 
And you're sure you feel strong enough to walk home ? Yes , he replied , with a lingering dilatory note , which deepened upon reflection into a sigh . 
He followed her and her candle down the magnificent stairway again . 
She blew the light out in the hall , and , opening the front door , stood with him for a silent moment on the threshold . 
Then they shook hands once more , and with a whispered good night , parted . 
Celia , returning to the blue and yellow room , lighted a cigarette and helped herself to some Benedictine in the glass which Theron had used . 
She looked meditatively at this little glass for a moment , turning it about in her fingers with a smile . 
The smile warmed itself suddenly into a joyous laugh . 
She tossed the glass aside , and , holding out her flowing skirts with both hands , executed a swinging pirouette in front of the gravely beautiful statue of the armless woman . 
CHAPTER XX It was apparent to the Rev . 
Theron Ware , from the very first moment of waking next morning , that both he and the world had changed over night . 
The metamorphosis , in the harsh toils of which he had been laboring blindly so long , was accomplished . 
He lacked even the impulse to turn round and inspect the cocoon from which he had emerged . 
Let the past bury the past . 
He had no vestige of interest in it . 
The change was not premature . 
He found himself not in the least confused by it , or frightened . 
Before he had finished shaving , he knew himself to be easily and comfortably at home in his new state , and master of all its requirements . 
It seemed as if Alice , too , recognized that he had become another man , when he went down and took his chair at the breakfast table . 
They had exchanged no words since their parting in the depot yard the previous evening an event now faded off into remote vagueness in Theron's mind . 
He smiled brilliantly in answer to the furtive , half sullen , half curious glance she stole at him , as she brought the dishes in . 
Ah ! potatoes warmed up in cream ! he said , with hearty pleasure in his tone . 
What a mind reader you are , to be sure ! I'm glad you're feeling so much better , she said briefly , taking her seat . 
I'm a new being ! She ventured to look him over more freely , upon this assurance . 
He perceived and catalogued , one by one , the emotions which the small brain was expressing through those shallow blue eyes of hers . 
He smiled affably in the face of this scattering fire of peevish glances , and did not dream of resenting any phase of them all . 
I am going down to Thurston's this morning , and order that piano sent up today , he announced presently , in a casual way . 
Why , Theron , can we afford it ? the wife asked , regarding him with surprise . 
Oh , easily enough , he replied light heartedly . 
You know they've increased my salary . 
How should I ? You don't realize it , she went on , dolefully , but you're getting so you don't tell me the least thing about your affairs nowadays . 
You ought to be grateful such melancholy affairs as mine have been till now , he declared that is , if it weren't absurd to think such a thing . 
Then , more soberly , he explained No , my girl , it is you who don't realize . 
I am carrying big projects in my mind big , ambitious thoughts and plans upon which great things depend . 
Don't think I'm scolding , my girl . 
I only speak to reassure you and and help you to comprehend . 
Of course I know that you wouldn't willingly embarrass my my career . 
Of course not , responded Alice , dubiously but but But what ? Theron felt compelled by civility to say , though on the instant he reproached himself for the weakness of it . 
But yesterday the word would have had in it all sorts of inherited terrors for him . 
This morning's dawn of a new existence revealed it as merely an empty and stupid epithet . 
These are things not to be said , he admonished her , after a moment's pause , and speaking with carefully measured austerity . 
Least of all are they to be said to a clergyman by his wife . 
It was on the tip of Alice's tongue to retort , Better by his wife than by outsiders ! but she bit her lips , and kept the gibe back . 
A rebuke of this form and gravity was a novelty in their relations . 
The fear that it had been merited troubled , even while it did not convince , her mind , and the puzzled apprehension was to be read plainly enough on her face . 
Theron , noting it , saw a good deal more behind . 
Really , it was amazing how much wiser he had grown all at once . 
He had been married for years , and it was only this morning that he suddenly discovered how a wife ought to be handled . 
He continued to look sternly away into space for a little . 
Then his brows relaxed slowly and under the visible influence of melting considerations . 
He nodded his head , turned toward her abruptly , and broke the silence with labored amiability . 
Come , come the day began so pleasantly it was so good to feel well again let us talk about the piano instead . 
That is , he added , with an obvious overture to playfulness , if the thought of having a piano is not too distasteful to you . 
Alice yielded almost effusively to his altered mood . 
Theron spread some old manuscript sermons before him on his desk , and took down his scribbling book as well . 
But there his application flagged , and he surrendered himself instead , chin on hand , to staring out at the rhododendron in the yard . 
He recalled how he had seen Soulsby patiently studying this identical bush . 
It seemed to raise itself up a palpable barrier between him and all that he had known and felt and done before . 
That was his new birth that marvellous night with the piano . 
The conceit pleased him not the less because there flashed along with it the thought that it was a poet that had been born . 
There was an end of him , and good riddance . 
Even if it remains dumb , it will be some comfort to have it here and look at it , and imagine how a great master might make it speak . 
Thanking you in anticipation , I am Here Theron's fluency came to a sharp halt . 
There were adverbs enough and to spare on the point of his pen , but the right one was not easy to come at . 
Gratefully , faithfully , sincerely , truly each in turn struck a false note . 
He felt himself not quite any of these things . 
There was a moment's hesitation as to notifying the kitchen of his departure . 
The interests of domestic discipline seemed to point the other way . 
He walked softly through the hall , and let himself out by the front door without a sound . 
Down by the canal bridge he picked out an idle boy to his mind a lad whose aspect appeared to promise intelligence as a messenger , combined with large impartiality in sectarian matters . 
He was to have ten cents on his return and he might report himself to his patron at the bookstore yonder . 
Theron was grateful to the old bookseller for remaining at his desk in the rear . 
There was a tacit compliment in the suggestion that he was not a mere customer , demanding instant attention . 
Besides , there was no keeping Thurston's out of conversations in this place . 
Loitering along the shelves , the young minister's eye suddenly found itself arrested by a name on a cover . 
There were a dozen narrow volumes in uniform binding , huddled together under a cardboard label of Eminent Women Series . 
Oddly enough , one of these bore the title George Sand . 
Theron saw there must be some mistake , as he took the book down , and opened it . 
His glance hit by accident upon the name of Chopin . 
Then he read attentively until almost the stroke of eleven . 
He smiled as he added , There seems something almost wrong about taking advantage of the clergyman's discount for a life of George Sand . 
I don't know , answered the other , pleasantly . 
Guess she wasn't so much different from the rest of 'em except that she didn't mind appearances . 
We don't know about the others . 
I must hurry , said Theron , turning on his heel . 
Their relation to Celia forced itself more and more upon his mind . 
He could recall the twinkle in her eye , the sub mockery in her tone , as she commented with that half contemptuous Yes George something ! upon his blundering ignorance . 
His mortification at having thus exposed his dull rusticity was swallowed up in conjectures as to just what her tolerant familiarity with such things involved . 
He had never before met a young unmarried woman who would have confessed to him any such knowledge . 
But then , of course , he had never known a girl who resembled Celia in any other way . 
He recognized vaguely that he must provide himself with an entire new set of standards by which to measure and comprehend her . 
But it was for the moment more interesting to wonder what her standards were . 
You have managed by a miracle to hit on one of my punctual days , said Celia . 
She was standing on the doorstep , at the entrance to the musical department of Thurston's . 
He had not noticed before the fact that the sun was shining . 
It was as if Celia had brought the sun with her . 
Theron shook hands with her , and found joy in the perception , that his own hand trembled . 
He put boldly into words the thought that came to him . 
Miss Madden beamed upon him , and nodded approval . 
Alcibiades never turned a prettier compliment , she remarked . 
They went in together at this , and Theron made a note of the name . 
During the ensuing half hour , the young minister followed about even more humbly than the clerks in Celia's commanding wake . 
Not so with the organist . 
She ordered them rolled around this way or that , as if they had been so many checkers on a draught board . 
She threw back their covers with the scant ceremony of a dispensary dentist opening paupers' mouths . 
Theron moved about in the group , nursing her parasol in his arms , and watching her . 
There undoubtedly was a sense of freemasonry between them . 
They alluded continually in technical terms to matters of which he knew nothing , and were amused at remarks of hers which to him carried no meaning whatever . 
It was evident that the young men liked her , and that their liking pleased her . 
He clung insistently to the memory of these evidences . 
They helped him to resist a disagreeable tendency to feel himself an intruder , an outsider , among these pianoforte experts . 
When it was all over , Celia waved the others aside , and talked with Theron . 
I suppose you want me to tell you the truth , she said . 
There's nothing here really good . 
It is always much better to buy of the makers direct . 
Do they sell on the instalment plan ? he asked . 
There was a wistful effect in his voice which caught her attention . 
She looked away out through the window on the street below for a moment . 
Oh , you want it at once I see , she remarked softly . 
Well , this Adelberger is the best value for the money . 
Mr. Ware followed her finger , and beheld with dismay that it pointed toward the largest instrument in the room a veritable leviathan among pianos . 
The price of this had been mentioned as . 
He turned over the fact that this was two thirds his yearly salary , and found the courage to shake his head . 
It would be too large much too large for the room , he explained . 
And , besides , it is more than I like to pay or CAN pay , for that matter . 
It was pitiful to be explaining such details , but there was no help for it . 
They picked out a smaller one , which Celia said was at least of fair quality . 
Now leave all the bargaining to me , she adjured him . 
These prices that they talk about in the piano trade are all in the air . 
There are tremendous discounts , if one knows how to insist upon them . 
All you have to do is to tell them to send it to your house you wanted it today , you said ? Yes in memory of yesterday , he murmured . 
She herself gave the directions , and Thurston's people , now all salesmen again , bowed grateful acquiescence . 
Then she sailed regally across the room and down the stairs , drawing Theron in her train . 
The hirelings made salaams to him as well it would have been impossible to interpose anything so trivial and squalid as talk about terms and dates of payment . 
I am ever so much obliged to you , he said fervently , in the comparative solitude of the lower floor . 
She had paused to look at something in the book department . 
Of course I was entirely at your service don't mention it , she replied , reaching forth her hand in an absent way for her parasol . 
He held up instead the volume he had purchased . 
Guess what that is ! You never would guess in this wide world ! His manner was surcharged with a sense of the surreptitious . 
Well , then , there's no good trying , IS there ? commented Celia , her glance roving again toward the shelves . 
It is a life of George Sand , whispered Theron . 
I've been reading it this morning all the Chopin part while I was waiting for you . 
To his surprise , there was an apparently displeased contraction of her brows as he made this revelation . 
For the instant , a dreadful fear of having offended her seized upon and sickened him . 
But then her face cleared , as by magic . 
She smiled , and let her eyes twinkle in laughter at him , and lifted a forefinger in the most winning mockery of admonition . 
Naughty ! naughty ! she murmured back , with a roguishly solemn wink . 
He had no response ready for this , but mutely handed her the parasol . 
The situation had suddenly grown too confused for words , or even sequent thoughts . 
Uppermost across the hurly burly of his mind there scudded the singular reflection that he should never hear her play on that new piano of his . 
He would countermand the order . 
He would but she was speaking again . 
They had strolled toward the door , and her voice was as placidly conventional as if the talk had never strayed from the subject of pianos . 
Theron with an effort pulled himself together , and laid hold of her words . 
I suppose you will be going the other way , she was saying . 
I shall have to be at the church all day . 
We have just got a new Mass over from Vienna , and I'm head over heels in work at it . 
I can have Father Forbes to myself today , too . 
Some of the passers by bowed to him , and one or two paused as if to shake hands and exchange greetings . 
He nodded responses mechanically , but did not stop . 
It was as if he feared to interrupt the process of lifting his reluctant feet and propelling them forward , lest they should wheel and scuttle off in the opposite direction . 
It was a trifle past the hour for his midday meal . 
He was not in the least hungry still less did he feel any desire just now to sit about in that library living room of his . 
Why should he go home at all ? There was no reason whatever save that Alice would be expecting him . 
Upon reflection , that hardly amounted to a reason . 
Wives , with their limited grasp of the realities of life , were always expecting their husbands to do things which it turned out not to be feasible for them to do . 
The customary male animal spent a considerable part of his life in explaining to his mate why it had been necessary to disappoint or upset her little plans for his comings and goings . 
It was in the very nature of things that it should be so . 
There was an idea underlying her remark , however , which recurred to him when he had paid his ten cents and got out on the street again . 
There was something interesting in the thought of Alice at the seaside . 
Neither of them had ever laid eyes on salt water , but Theron took for granted the most extravagant landsman's conception of its curative and invigorating powers . 
It was apparent to him that he was going to pay much greater attention to Alice's happiness and well being in the future than he had latterly done . 
He had bought her , this very day , a superb new piano . 
He was going to simply insist on her having a hired girl . 
And this seaside notion why , that was best of all . 
The fresh sea breeze blew through her hair , as he saw her in mind's eye , and brought the hardy flush of health back upon her rather pallid cheeks . 
He was prepared already hardly to know her , so robust and revivified would she have become , by the time he went down to the depot to meet her on her return . 
For his imagination stopped short of seeing himself at the seaside . 
It sketched instead pictures of whole weeks of solitary academic calm , alone with his books and his thoughts . 
The facts that he had no books , and that nobody dreamed of interfering with his thoughts , subordinated themselves humbly to his mood . 
It could not but prove a season of immense mental stimulation and ethical broadening . 
He opened the gate leading to Dr . 
Theron had prepared his mind for the effect of being admitted by a Chinaman , and was taken somewhat aback when the door was opened by the doctor himself . 
His reception was pleasant enough , almost cordial , but the sense of awkwardness followed him into his host's inner room and rested heavily upon his opening speech . 
I heard , quite by accident , that you were ill , he said , laying aside his hat . 
It's nothing at all , replied Ledsmar . 
Merely a stiff shoulder that I wear from time to time in memory of my father . 
It ought to be quite gone by nightfall . 
It was good of you to come , all the same . 
Sit down if you can find a chair . 
As usual , we are littered up to our eyes here . 
That's it throw those things on the floor . 
Mr. Ware carefully deposited an armful of pamphlets on the rug at his feet , and sat down . 
Litter was indeed the word for what he saw about him . 
Bookcases , chairs , tables , the corners of the floor , were all buried deep under disorderly strata of papers , diagrams , and opened books . 
One could hardly walk about without treading on them . 
I must thank you , first of all , doctor , he began , for your kindness in coming when I was ill . 
'I was sick , and ye visited me . 
You mustn't think of it that way , said Ledsmar your friend came for me , and of course I went and gladly too . 
There was nothing that I could do , or that anybody could do . 
Very interesting man , that friend of yours . 
And his wife , too both quite out of the common . 
I don't know when I've seen two such really genuine people . 
I should like to have known more of them . 
Are they still here ? They went yesterday , Theron replied . 
His earlier shyness had worn off , and he felt comfortably at his ease . 
I don't know , he went on , that the word 'genuine' is just what would have occurred to me to describe the Soulsbys . 
The , are very interesting people , as you say MOST interesting and there was a time , l dare say , when I should have believed in their sincerity . 
Indeed , when I think upon it sometimes my old state of mind seems quite incredible to me . 
I can use no word for my new state short of illumination . 
Ledsmar continued to regard his guest with that calm , interrogatory scrutiny of his . 
He did not seem disposed to take up the great issue of illumination . 
The thing amounts to a law . 
The young minister's veins responded with a pleasurable thrill to the use of the word priest in obvious allusion to himself . 
Perhaps in fairness I ought to explain , he said , that in her case it was only done in the course of a long talk about myself . 
I might say that it was by way of kindly warning to me . 
Yes , I know the tribe . 
Why , my dear sir , your entire profession would have perished from the memory of mankind , if it hadn't been for women . 
It is a very curious subject . 
Lots of thinkers have dipped into it , but no one has gone resolutely in with a search light and exploited the whole thing . 
Our boys , for instance , traverse in their younger years all the stages of the childhood of the race . 
But the woman is totally different . 
She is infinitely more precocious as a girl . 
Having got there , she stays there she dies there . 
The boy passes her , as the tortoise did the hare . 
He goes on , if he is a philosopher , and lets her remain in the dark ages , where she belongs . 
If he happens to be a fool , which is customary , he stops and hangs around in her vicinity . 
We priests , he said , and paused again to enjoy the words I suppose I oughtn't to inquire too closely just where we belong in the procession . 
We are considering the question impersonally , said the doctor . 
First of all , what you regard as religion is especially calculated to attract women . 
They remain as superstitious today , down in the marrow of their bones , as they were ten thousand years ago . 
Even the cleverest of them are secretly afraid of omens , and respect auguries . 
Think of the broadest women you know . 
One of them will throw salt over her shoulder if she spills it . 
Another drinks money from her cup by skimming the bubbles in a spoon . 
Another forecasts her future by the arrangement of tea grounds . 
They make the constituency to which an institution based on mysteries , miracles , and the supernatural generally , would naturally appeal . 
Secondly , there is the personality of the priest . 
There rose up before him , on the instant , the graceful , portly figure and strong , comely face of Father Forbes . 
Women are not a metaphysical people . 
They do not easily follow abstractions . 
They want their dogmas and religious sentiments embodied in a man , just as they do their romantic fancies . 
Of course you Protestants , with your married clergy , see less of the effects of this than celibates do , but even with you there is a great deal in it . 
You should read your Jerome . 
I will certainly , said the listener , resolving to remember the name and refer it to the old bookseller . 
Well , whatever laws one sect or another makes , the woman's attitude toward the priest survives . 
She desires to see him surrounded by flower pots and candles , to have him smelling of musk . 
She would like to curl his hair , and weave garlands in it . 
Ugh ! It makes one sick ! Dr . 
Ledsmar rose , as he spoke , and dismissed the topic with a dry little laugh . 
Come , let me show you round a bit , he said . 
My shoulder is easier walking than sitting . 
Have you never written a book yourself ? asked Theron , getting to his feet . 
I have a thing on serpent worship , the scientist replied written years ago . 
I can't tell you how I should enjoy reading it , urged the other . 
You'll have to learn German , then , I 'm afraid . 
It is still in circulation in Germany , I believe , on its merits as a serious book . 
I haven't a copy of the edition in English . 
THAT was all exhausted by collectors who bought it for its supposed obscenity , like Burton's 'Arabian Nights . 
Come this way , and I will show you my laboratory . 
They moved out of the room , and through a passage , Ledsmar talking as he led the way . 
I took up that subject , when I was at college , by a curious chance . 
I kept a young monkey in my rooms , which had been born in captivity . 
I brought home from a beer hall it was in Germany some pretzels one night , and tossed one toward the monkey . 
He jumped toward it , then screamed and ran back shuddering with fright . 
I couldn't understand it at first . 
Then I saw that the curled pretzel , lying there on the floor , was very like a little coiled up snake . 
The monkey had never seen a snake , but it was in his blood to be afraid of one . 
That incident changed my whole life for me . 
Up to that evening , I had intended to be a lawyer . 
Theron did not feel sure that he had understood the point of the anecdote . 
Further on was a smaller chamber , with a big empty furnace , and shelves bearing bottles and apparatus like a drugstore . 
It was pleasanter in the conservatory a low , spacious structure with broad pathways between the plants , and an awning over the sunny side of the roof . 
The plants were mostly orchids , he learned . 
He had read of them , but never seen any before . 
No doubt they were curious but he discovered nothing to justify the great fuss made about them . 
The heat grew oppressive inside , and he was glad to emerge into the garden . 
He paused under the grateful shade of a vine clad trellis , took off his hat , and looked about him with a sigh of relief . 
Everything seemed old fashioned and natural and delightfully free from pretence in the big , overgrown field of flowers and shrubs . 
Theron recalled with some surprise Celia's indictment of the doctor as a man with no poetry in his soul . 
You must be extremely fond of flowers , he remarked . 
Ledsmar shrugged his well shoulder . 
They have their points , he said briefly . 
These are all dioecious here . 
Over beyond are monoecious species . 
My work is to test the probabilities for or against Darwin's theory that hermaphroditism in plants is a late by product of these earlier forms . 
And is his theory right ? asked Mr. Ware , with a polite show of interest . 
We may know in the course of three or four hundred years , replied Ledsmar . 
He looked up into his guest's face with a quizzical half smile . 
That is a very brief period for observation when such a complicated question as sex is involved , he added . 
We have been studying the female of our own species for some hundreds of thousands of years , and we haven't arrived at the most elementary rules governing her actions . 
They had moved along to a bed of tall plants , the more forward of which were beginning to show bloom . 
Here another task will begin next month , the doctor observed . 
These are salvias , pentstemons , and antirrhinums , or snapdragons , planted very thick for the purpose . 
It may be merely the old fogy conservatism of the individual , or there may be a law in it . 
These seemed very paltry things for a man of such wisdom to bother his head about . 
They say it pays very well , though . 
Not like a blue rhododendron , in mere money , but in recognition . 
Lots of men have achieved a half column in the 'Encyclopedia Britannica' on a smaller basis than that . 
They stood now at the end of the garden , before a small , dilapidated summer house . 
On the bench inside , facing him , Theron saw a strange recumbent figure stretched at full length , apparently sound asleep , or it might be dead . 
Looking closer , with a startled surprise , he made out the shaven skull and outlandish garb of a Chinaman . 
He turned toward his guide in the expectation of a scene . 
The doctor had already taken out a note book and pencil , and was drawing his watch from his pocket . 
He stepped into the summer house , and , lifting the Oriental's limp arm , took account of his pulse . 
Then , with head bowed low , side wise , he listened for the heart action . 
Finally , he somewhat brusquely pushed back one of the Chinaman's eyelids , and made a minute inspection of what the operation disclosed . 
Returning to the light , he inscribed some notes in his book , put it back in his pocket , and came out . 
In answer to Theron's marvelling stare , he pointed toward a pipe of odd construction lying on the floor beneath the sleeper . 
This is one of my regular afternoon duties , he explained , again with the whimsical half smile . 
I am increasing his dose monthly by regular stages , and the results promise to be rather remarkable . 
Heretofore , observations have been made mostly on diseased or morbidly deteriorated subjects . 
This fellow of mine is strong as an ox , perfectly nourished , and watched over intelligently . 
He can assimilate opium enough to kill you and me and every other vertebrate creature on the premises , without turning a hair , and he hasn't got even fairly under way yet . 
The thing was unpleasant , and the young minister turned away . 
They walked together up the path toward the house . 
His mind was full now of the hostile things which Celia had said about the doctor . 
He had vaguely sympathized with her then , upon no special knowledge of his own . 
Now he felt that his sentiments were vehemently in accord with hers . 
The doctor WAS a beast . 
And yet as they moved slowly along through the garden the thought took sudden shape in his mind it would be only justice for him to get also the doctor's opinion of Celia . 
And what he had said about women there was certainly a great deal of acumen and shrewd observation in that . 
He paused , with a simulated curiosity , about one of the flower beds . 
The doctor looked at him , nodded , and stooped to nip some buds from a stalk in the bed . 
My mind has better things to busy itself with than mad asses of that description , he replied . 
She is not worth talking about a mere bundle of egotism , ignorance , and red headed lewdness . 
Her father is a decent man . 
He ought to have her whipped . 
Mr. Ware drew himself erect , as he listened to these outrageous words . 
It would be unmanly , he felt , to allow such comments upon an absent friend to pass unrebuked . 
Yet there was the courtesy due to a host to be considered . 
His mind , fluttering between these two extremes , alighted abruptly upon a compromise . 
He would speak so as to show his disapproval , yet not so as to prevent his finding out what he wanted to know . 
It tugged passionately at his self control as he spoke . 
I cannot in the least assent to your characterization of the lady , he began with rhetorical dignity . 
Bless me ! interposed the doctor , with deceptive cheerfulness , that is not required of you at all . 
It is a strictly personal opinion , offered merely as a contribution to the general sum of hypotheses . 
I ask you , because going there so much you have had exceptional opportunities for A sharp exclamation from his companion interrupted the clergyman's hesitating monologue . 
It began like a high pitched , violent word , but dwindled suddenly into a groan of pain . 
The doctor's face , too , which had on the flash of Theron's turning seemed given over to unmixed anger , took on an expression of bodily suffering instead . 
My shoulder has grown all at once excessively painful , he said hastily . 
I'm afraid I must ask you to excuse me , Mr. Ware . 
Carrying the afflicted side with ostentatious caution , he led the way without ado round the house to the front gate on the road . 
He had put his left hand under his coat to press it against his aching shoulder , and his right hung palpably helpless . 
This rendered it impossible for him to shake hands with his guest in parting . 
You're sure there's nothing I can do , said Theron , lingering on the outer side of the gate . 
I used to rub my father's shoulders and back I'd gladly Oh , not for worlds ! groaned the doctor . 
His anguish was so impressive that Theron , as he walked down the road , quite missed the fact that there had been no invitation to come again . 
Ledsmar stood for a minute or two , his gaze meditatively following the retreating figure . 
Then he went in , opening the front door with his right hand , and carrying himself once more as if there were no such thing as rheumatism in the world . 
He wandered on through the hall into the laboratory , and stopped in front of the row of little tanks full of water . 
Some deliberation was involved in whatever his purpose might be , for he looked from one tank to another with a pondering , dilatory gaze . 
The reptile squirmed and doubled itself backward around his wrist , darting out and in with dizzy swiftness its tiny forked tongue . 
The doctor held the thing up to the light , and , scrutinizing it through his spectacles , nodded his head in sedate approval . 
A grim smile curled in his beard . 
Yes , you are the type , he murmured to it , with evident enjoyment in the conceit . 
Your name isn't Johnny any more . 
CHAPTER XXII The annual camp meeting of the combined Methodist districts of Octavius and Thessaly was held this year in the second half of September , a little later than usual . 
Of the nine days devoted to this curious survival of primitive Wesleyanism , the fifth fell upon a Saturday . 
On the noon of that day the Rev . 
Theron Ware escaped for some hours from the burden of work and incessant observation which he shared with twenty other preachers , and walked alone in the woods . 
The scene upon which he turned his back was one worth looking at . 
A spacious , irregularly defined clearing in the forest lay level as a tennis court , under the soft haze of autumn sunlight . 
In the centre was a large , roughly constructed frame building , untouched by paint , but stained and weather beaten with time . 
At the other side of the clearing , fully fourscore tents were pitched , some gray and mended , others dazzlingly white in their newness . 
Inside this half ring of tents were many rounded rows of benches , which followed in narrowing lines the idea of an amphitheatre cut in two . 
In the centre , just under the edge of the roof of boughs , rose a wooden pagoda , in form not unlike an open air stand for musicians . 
In front of this , and leading from it on the level of its floor , there projected a platform , railed round with aggressively rustic woodwork . 
The nearest benches came close about this platform . 
At the hour when Theron started away , there were few enough signs of life about this encampment . 
The four or five hundred people who were in constant residence were eating their dinners in the big boarding house , or the cottages or the tents . 
It was not the time of day for strangers . 
The real spectacle was in the evening when , as the shadows gathered , big clusters of kerosene torches , hung on the trees facing the audience were lighted . 
The falling darkness magnified the glow of the lights , and the size and importance of what they illumined . 
The change was in the blood of those who saw and heard him , too . 
The decorum and half heartedness of their devotions by day deepened under the glare of the torches into a fervent enthusiasm , even before the services began . 
But in the evening not all were worshippers . 
These sight seers sometimes ventured to occupy the back benches where the light was dim . 
Their rough horse play on the fringe of the sanctified gathering was grievous enough everybody knew that much worse things went on further out in the surrounding darkness . 
Cynics said that the Methodists found consolation for this scandal in the large income they derived from their unruly visitors' gate money . 
No doubt the money played its part , but there was something else far more important . 
Theirs was pre eminently a fighting religion , which languished in peaceful fair weather , but flamed high in the storm . 
And it was not so one sided a contest , either ! No evening passed without its victories for the pulpit . 
They would hear a strange , quavering note in the preacher's voice , catch the sense of a piercing , soul commanding gleam in his eye not at all to be resisted . 
These occult forces would take control of them , drag them forward as in a dream to the benches under the pulpit , and abase them there like worms in the dust . 
These combats with Satan at close quarters , if they made the week day evenings exciting , reacted with an effect of crushing dulness upon the Sunday services . 
The rule was to admit no strangers to the grounds from Saturday night to Monday morning . 
The two Presiding Elders , supported by a dozen of the older preachers , resisted the change , and they had the backing of the more bigoted section of the congregation from Octavius . 
Then Theron Ware saw his opportunity , and preached an impromptu sermon upon the sanctity of the Sabbath , which ended all discussion . 
When he had finished , nobody wanted the gates opened . 
The two factions found that the difference between them had melted out of existence . 
Theron's conquest was of exceptional dimensions . 
The majority , whose project he had defeated , were strangers who appreciated and admired his effort most . 
The Presiding Elders wrung his hand with a significant grip . 
The extremists of his own charge beamed friendship upon him for the first time . 
He was the veritable hero of the week . 
The prestige of this achievement made it the easier for Theron to get away by himself next day , and walk in the woods . 
A man of such power had a right to solitude . 
Those who noted his departure from the camp remembered with pleasure that he was to preach again on the morrow . 
He was going to commune with God in the depths of the forest , that the Message next day might be clearer and more luminous still . 
Theron strolled for a little , with an air of aimlessness , until he was well outside the more or less frequented neighborhood of the camp . 
Very Soon he hit upon the path he had counted upon finding , and at this he quickened his gait . 
Three months of the new life had wrought changes in Theron . 
He bore himself more erectly , for one thing his shoulders were thrown back , and seemed thicker . 
The alteration was even more obvious in his face . 
The effect of lank , wistful , sallow juvenility had vanished . 
It was the countenance of a mature , well fed , and confident man , firmer and more rounded in its outlines , and with a glow of health on its whole surface . 
Under the chin were the suggestions of fulness which bespeak an easy mind . 
He wore a shining tall hat , and , in haste though he was , took pains not to knock it against low hanging branches . 
All had gone well more than well with him . 
The second Quarterly Conference had passed without a ripple . 
Both the attendance and the collections at his church were larger than ever before , and the tone of the congregation toward him was altered distinctly for the better . 
As for himself , he viewed with astonished delight the progress he had made in his own estimation . 
He had taken Sister Soulsby's advice , and the results were already wonderful . 
He had put aside , once and for all , the thousand foolish trifles and childish perplexities which formerly had racked his brain , and worried him out of sleep and strength . 
They amused him they were all before him to choose and he was free to postpone indefinitely the act of selection . 
There was a sense of the luxurious in this position which softened bodily as well as mental fibres . 
He ceased to grow indignant at things below or outside his standards , and he bought a small book which treated of the care of the hand and finger nails . 
Alice had accepted with deference his explanation that shapely hands played so important a part in pulpit oratory . 
For that matter , she now accepted whatever he said or did with admirable docility . 
It was months since he could remember her venturing upon a critical attitude toward him . 
She had not wished to leave home , for the seaside or any other resort , during the summer , but had worked outside in her garden more than usual . 
This was inexpensive , and it seemed to do her as much good as a holiday could have done . 
Her new devotional zeal was now quite an odd thing it had not slackened at all from the revival pitch . 
At the outset she had tried several times to talk with her husband upon this subject . 
He had discouraged conversation about her soul and its welfare , at first obliquely , then , under compulsion , with some directness . 
Thereafter the topic was not broached between them . 
She bestowed a good deal of attention , too , upon her piano . 
The knack of a girlish nimbleness of touch had returned to her after a few weeks , and she made music which Theron supposed was very good for her . 
Although three months had passed , Thurston's had never asked for the first payment on the piano , or even sent in a bill . 
This impressed him as being peculiarly graceful behavior on his part , and he recognized its delicacy by not going near Thurston's at all . 
The ground was soft with moss and the powdered remains of last year's foliage the leaves above him were showing the first yellow stains of autumn . 
A sweet smell of ripening nuts was thick upon the air , and busy rustlings and chirpings through the stillness told how the chipmunks and squirrels were attending to their harvest . 
Theron had no ears for these noises of the woodland . 
He had halted , and was searching through the little vistas offered between the stout gray trunks of the beeches for some sign of a more sophisticated sort . 
Yes ! there were certainly voices to be heard , down in the hollow . 
And now , beyond all possibility of mistake , there came up to him the low , rhythmic throb of music . 
It was the merest faint murmur of music , made up almost wholly of groaning bass notes , but it was enough . 
He moved down the slope , swiftly at first , then with increasing caution . 
He reached a place from which , himself unobserved , he could overlook much of what he had come to see . 
The bottom of the glade below him lay out in the full sunshine , as flat and as velvety in its fresh greenness as a garden lawn . 
Theron remembered that these were the Christian Brothers , the semi monastic teachers of the Catholic school . 
And this was the picnic of the Catholics of Octavius . 
He gazed in mingled amazement and exhilaration upon the spectacle . 
There seemed to be literally thousands of people on the open fields before him , and apparently there were still other thousands in the fringes of the woods round about . 
He drew a long breath half pleasure , half wistful regret as he remembered that other gathering in the forest which he had left behind . 
He turned and walked to the right through the beeches , making a detour , under cover , of the crowds at play . 
There was no mystery now . 
A rough , narrow shed , fully fifty feet in length , imposed itself in an arbitrary line across the face of this crowd , dividing it into two compact halves . 
The actions of these bartenders greatly impressed Theron . 
Theron had never seen any considerable number of his fellow citizens engaged in drinking lager beer before . 
His surprise at the facility of those behind the bar began to yield , upon observation , to a profound amazement at the thirst of those before it . 
The same people seemed to be always in front , emptying the glasses faster than the busy men inside could replenish them , and clamoring tirelessly for more . 
Newcomers had to force their way to the bar by violent efforts , and once there they stayed until pushed bodily aside . 
There were actually women to be seen here and there in the throng , elbowing and shoving like the rest for a place at the front . 
Everywhere a remarkable good humor prevailed . 
Once a sharp fight broke out , just at the end of the bar nearest Theron , and one young man was knocked down . 
The incident caught his fancy . 
There was something very pleasingly human , he thought , in this primitive readiness to resort to fisticuffs , and this frank and genial reconciliation . 
Perhaps there was something contagious in this wholesale display of thirst , for the Rev . 
Mr. Ware became conscious of a notion that he should like to try a glass of beer . 
He recalled having heard that lager was really a most harmless beverage . 
Of course it was out of the question that he should show himself at the bar . 
Perhaps some one would bring him out a glass , as if he were a pretty girl . 
He looked about for a possible messenger . 
Turning , he found himself face to face with two smiling people , into whose eyes he stared for an instant in dumfounded blankness . 
Then his countenance flashed with joy , and he held out both hands in greeting . 
It was Father Forbes and Celia . 
We stole down upon you unawares , said the priest , in his cheeriest manner . 
He wore a brown straw hat , and loose clothes hardly at all clerical in form , and had Miss Madden's arm drawn lightly within his own . 
I've had five days of the saints , over in another part of the woods , and they've bored the head off me . 
CHAPTER XXIII At the command of Father Forbes , a lad who was loitering near them went down through the throng to the bar , and returned with three glasses of beer . 
Mr. Ware that the priest should have taken it for granted that he would do as the others did . 
He knocked his glass against theirs in compliance with a custom strange to him , but which they seemed to understand very well . 
The beer itself was not so agreeable to the taste as he had expected , but it was cold and refreshing . 
When the boy had returned with the glasses , the three stood for a moment in silence , meditatively watching the curious scene spread below them . 
Beyond the bar , Theron could catch now through the trees regularly recurring glimpses of four or five swings in motion . 
These were nearest him , and clearest to the vision as well , at the instant when they reached their highest forward point . 
The sight struck him as indecorous in the extreme , and he turned his eyes away . 
They met Celia's and there was something latent in their brown depths which prompted him , after a brief dalliance of interchanging glances , to look again at the swings . 
That old maid Curran is really too ridiculous , with those white stockings of hers , remarked Celia some friend ought to tell her to dye them . 
Or pad them , suggested Father Forbes , with a gay little chuckle . 
I daresay the question of swings and ladies' stockings hardly arises with you , over at the camp meeting , Mr. Ware ? Theron laughed aloud at the conceit . 
I should say not ! he replied . 
I'm just dying to see a camp meeting ! said Celia . 
You hear such racy accounts of what goes on at them . 
Don't go , I beg of you ! urged Theron , with doleful emphasis . 
Don't let's even talk about them . 
I should like to feel this afternoon as if there was no such thing within a thousand miles of me as a camp meeting . 
Do you know , all this interests me enormously . 
It is a revelation to me to see these thousands of good , decent , ordinary people , just frankly enjoying themselves like human beings . 
I suppose that in this whole huge crowd there isn't a single person who will mention the subject of his soul to any other person all day long . 
I should think the assumption was a safe one , said the priest , smilingly , unless , he added on afterthought , it be by way of a genial profanity . 
There used to be some old Clare men who said 'Hell to my soul ! when they missed at quoits , but I haven't heard it for a long time . 
I daresay they're all dead . 
I shall never forget that death bed where I saw you first , remarked Theron , musingly . 
I date from that experience a whole new life . 
The cholera year of seems to have made Methodists hand over fist . 
You could hear the same thing at our camp meeting tonight , if you were there . 
There isn't so much difference as you think , said Father Forbes , dispassionately . 
Your people keep examining their souls , just as children keep pulling up the bulbs they have planted to see are there any roots yet . 
Our people are more satisfied to leave their souls alone , once they have been planted , so to speak , by baptism . 
But fear of hell governs them both , pretty much alike . 
As I remember saying to you once before , there is really nothing new under the sun . 
Even the saying isn't new . 
Though there seem to have been the most tremendous changes in races and civilizations and religions , stretching over many thousands of years , yet nothing is in fact altered very much . 
Where religions are concerned , the human race are still very like savages in a dangerous wood in the dark , telling one another ghost stories around a camp fire . 
They have always been like that . 
What nonsense ! cried Celia . 
I have no patience with such gloomy rubbish . 
The Greeks had a religion full of beauty and happiness and light heartedness , and they weren't frightened of death at all . 
They made the image of death a beautiful boy , with a torch turned down . 
Their greatest philosophers openly preached and practised the doctrine of suicide when one was tired of life . 
Our own early Church was full of these broad and beautiful Greek ideas . 
My dear Celia , interposed the priest , patting her shoulder gently , we will have no Greek debate today . 
Mr. Ware has been permitted to taboo camp meetings , and I claim the privilege to cry off on Greeks . 
Look at those fellows down there , trampling over one another to get more beer . 
You see those young Irishmen there , struggling like pigs at a trough to get their fill of German beer . 
That signifies a conquest of Teuton over Kelt more important and far reaching in its results than the landing of Hengist and Horsa . 
The Kelt has come to grief heretofore or at least been forced to play second fiddle to other races because he lacked the right sort of a drink . 
He has in his blood an excess of impulsive , imaginative , even fantastic qualities . 
It is much easier for him to make a fool of himself , to begin with , than it is for people of slower wits and more sluggish temperaments . 
When you add whiskey to that , or that essence of melancholia which in Ireland they call 'porther , you get the Kelt at his very weakest and worst . 
These young men down there are changing all that . 
Already many of them can outdrink the Germans at their own beverage . 
The lager drinking Irishman in a few generations will be a new type of humanity the Kelt at his best . 
He will be THE American . 
And his church with the Italian element thrown clean out of it , and its Pope living , say , in Baltimore or Georgetown will be the Church of America . 
Let us have some more lager at once , put in Celia . 
This revolution can't be hurried forward too rapidly . 
Theron could not feel sure how much of the priest's discourse was in jest , how much in earnest . 
The march of science must very soon produce a universal scepticism . 
It is in the nature of human progress . 
What all intelligent men recognize today , the masses must surely come to see in time . 
Father Forbes laughed outright this time . 
That idea was the basis of every pagan religion , and it is the basis of the Christian religion , simply because it is the foundation of human nature . 
That foundation is just as firm and unshaken today as it was in the Stone Age . 
It will always remain , and upon it will always be built some kind of a religious superstructure . 
'Intelligent men , as you call them , really have very little influence , even when they all pull one way . 
The people as a whole soon get tired of them . 
They give too much trouble . 
The most powerful forces in human nature are self protection and inertia . 
The middle aged man has found out that the chief wisdom in life is to bend to the pressures about him , to shut up and do as others do . 
Even when he thinks he has rid his own mind of superstitions , he sees that he will best enjoy a peaceful life by leaving other peoples' superstitions alone . 
That is always the ultimate view of the crowd . 
But I don't see , observed Theron , granting that all this is true , how you think the Catholic Church will come out on top . 
There everything is hard and fast nothing is elastic there is no room for compromise . 
The Church is always compromising , explained the priest , only it does it so slowly that no one man lives long enough to quite catch it at the trick . 
No the great secret of the Catholic Church is that it doesn't debate with sceptics . 
No matter what points you make against it , it is never betrayed into answering back . 
It simply says these things are sacred mysteries , which you are quite free to accept and be saved , or reject and be damned . 
There is something intelligible and fine about an attitude like that . 
There you have nothing to do but be agreeable , and avoid scandal , and observe the convenances . 
You are no more expected to express doubts about the Immaculate Conception than you are to ask the lady whom you take down to dinner how old she is . 
Now that is , as I have said , an intelligent and rational church for people to have . 
And all this is to be done by lager beer ! Theron ventured to comment , jokingly . 
He was conscious of a novel perspiration around the bridge of his nose , which was obviously another effect of the drink . 
The priest passed the pleasantry by . 
No , he said seriously what you must see is that there must always be a church . 
If one did not exist , it would be necessary to invent it . 
It is needed , first and foremost , as a police force . 
It is needed , secondly , so to speak , as a fire insurance . 
It provides the most even temperature and pure atmosphere for the growth of young children . 
It furnishes the best obtainable social machinery for marrying off one's daughters , getting to know the right people , patching up quarrels , and so on . 
The priesthood earn their salaries as the agents for these valuable social arrangements . 
Their theology is thrown in as a sort of intellectual diversion , like the ritual of a benevolent organization . 
There are some who get excited about this part of it , just as one hears of Free Masons who believe that the sun rises and sets to exemplify their ceremonies . 
Others take their duties more quietly , and , understanding just what it all amounts to , make the best of it , like you and me . 
Theron assented to the philosophy and the compliment by a grave bow . 
Yes , that is the idea to make the best of it , he said , and fastened his regard boldly this time upon the swings . 
We were both ordained by our bishops , continued the priest , at an age when those worthy old gentlemen would not have trusted our combined wisdom to buy a horse for them . 
It is easy enough to make the best of THAT , but it is different with me . 
A marked silence followed this outburst . 
He himself was filled with a desire to say more about it . 
He had never clearly realized before what a genuine grievance it was . 
His whole life had been fettered and darkened by it . 
He turned his gaze from the swings toward Celia , to claim the sympathy he knew she would feel for him . 
But Celia was otherwise engaged . 
He had sandy hair and the rough hands of a workman but he was speaking to Miss Madden in the confidential tones of an equal . 
I can do nothing at all with him , this newcomer said to her . 
He'll not be said by me . 
Perhaps he'd listen to you ! It's likely I'll go down there ! said Celia . 
He may do what he likes for all me ! Take my advice , Michael , and just go your way , and leave him to himself . 
There was a time when I would have taken out my eyes for him , but it was love wasted and thrown away . 
After the warnings he's had , if he WILL bring trouble on himself , let's make it no affair of ours . 
Theron had found himself exchanging glances of inquiry with this young man . 
Mr. Ware , said Celia , here , let me introduce you to my brother Michael my full brother . 
Mr. Ware remembered him now , and began , in response to the other's formal bow , to say something about their having met in the dark , inside the church . 
But Celia held up her hand . 
I'm afraid , Mr. Ware , she said hurriedly , that you are in for a glimpse of the family skeleton . 
I will apologize for the infliction in advance . 
Wonderingly , Theron followed her look , and saw another young man who had come up the path from the crowd below , and was close upon them . 
The minister recognized in him a figure which had seemed to be the centre of almost every group about the bar that he had studied in detail . 
He was a small , dapper , elegantly attired youth , with dark hair , and the handsome , regularly carved face of an actor . 
I saw you up here , Father Forbes , he said , with a thickened and erratic utterance . 
Whyn't you come down and join us ? I'm setting 'em up for everybody . 
You got to take care of the boys , you know . 
I'll blow in the last cent I've got in the world for the boys , every time , and they know it . 
They're solider for me than they ever were for anybody . 
If you stand by the boys , the boys'll stand by you . 
I'm going to the Assembly for this district , and they ain't nobody can stop me . 
The boys are just red hot for me . 
Wish you'd come down , Father Forbes , and address a few words to the meeting just mention that I'm a candidate , and say I'm bound to win , hands down . 
That'll make you solid with the boys , and we'll be all good fellows together . 
Come on down ! The priest affably disengaged his arm from the clutch which the speaker had laid upon it , and shook his head in gentle deprecation . 
No , no you must excuse me , Theodore , he said . 
We mustn't meddle in politics , you know . 
Politics be damned ! urged Theodore , grabbing the priest's other arm , and tugging at it stoutly to pull him down the path . 
I say , boys he shouted to those below , here's Father Forbes , and he's going to come down and address the meeting . 
Come on , Father ! Come down , and have a drink with the boys ! It was Celia who sharply pulled his hand away from the priest's arm this time . 
Go away with you ! she snapped in low , angry tones at the intruder . 
You should be ashamed of yourself ! If you can't keep sober yourself , you can at least keep your hands off the priest . 
I should think you'd have more decency , when you're in such a state as this , than to come where I am . 
Go and spend your money with them , then , and don't come insulting decent people , said Celia . 
Before strangers , too ! the young man called out , with beery sarcasm . 
Oh , we'll take care of the strangers all right . 
He had not seemed to be aware of Theron's presence , much less his identity , before but he turned to him now with a knowing grin . 
I'm going to drive over to the camp meeting tonight , me and some of the boys in a barouche , and I'll put a twenty dollar bill on their plate . 
Here it is now , if you want to see it . 
As the young man began fumbling in a vest pocket , Theron gathered his wits together . 
Rats ! said Theodore , raising his head , and abandoning the search for the bill . 
You're a married man into the bargain and you've got in your house this minute a piano that my sister bought and paid for . 
Come with me , Michael ! he said , and the two men led the reluctant and resisting Theodore at a sharp pace off into the woods . 
Theron and Celia stood and watched them disappear among the undergrowth . 
It's the dirty Foley blood that's in him , he heard her say , as if between clenched teeth . 
The girl's big brown eyes , when Theron looked into them again , were still fixed upon the screen of foliage , and dilated like those of a Medusa mask . 
The blood had gone away , and left the fair face and neck as white , it seemed to him , as marble . 
Even her lips , fiercely bitten together , appeared colorless . 
Tenderness toward her helpless state came too , and uppermost . 
He drew her arm into his , and turned their backs upon the picnic scene . 
Let us walk a little up the path into the woods , he said , and get away from all this . 
The further away the better , she answered bitterly , and he felt the shiver run through her again as she spoke . 
The methodical waltz music from that unseen dancing platform rose again above all other sounds . 
They moved up the woodland path , their steps insensibly falling into the rhythm of its strains , and vanished from sight among the trees . 
CHAPTER XXIV Theron and Celia walked in silence for some minutes , until the noises of the throng they had left behind were lost . 
Her companion looked down in pained amazement at what he saw . 
The half stifled sounds of weeping that arose from where her face grovelled in the leaves were terrible to his ears . 
He knew not what to say or do , but gazed in resourceless suspense at the strange figure she made . 
It seemed a cruelly long time that she lay there , almost at his feet , struggling fiercely with the fury that was in her . 
All at once the paroxysms passed away , the sounds of wild weeping ceased . 
Celia sat up , and with her handkerchief wiped the tears and leafy fragments from her face . 
She rearranged her hat and the braids of her hair with swift , instinctive touches , brushed the woodland debris from her front , and sprang to her feet . 
I'm all right now , she said briskly . 
Thank God ! he blurted out , all radiant with relief . 
I feared you were going to have a fit or something . 
Celia laughed , a little artificially at first , then with a genuine surrender to the comic side of his visible fright . 
The mirth came back into the brown depths of her eyes again , and her face cleared itself of tear stains and the marks of agitation . 
I AM a nice quiet party for a Methodist minister to go walking in the woods with , am I not ? she cried , shaking her skirts and smiling at him . 
You are not by any means free . 
You are only looking out of the window of your prison , as you call it . 
The doors are locked , just the same . 
I will smash them ! he declared , with confidence . 
Or for that matter , I HAVE smashed them battered them to pieces . 
I suppose it was the Virgin Mary . 
She had hair like yours , and your face , too and that is why I went into the church and found you . 
Yes , that is why . 
Celia regarded him with gravity . 
You will get yourself into great trouble , my friend , she said . 
That's where you're wrong , put in Theron . 
Not that I'd mind any trouble in this wide world , so long as you called me 'my friend , but I'm not going to get into any at all . 
I know a trick worth two of that . 
I've learned to be a showman . 
I was too green before . 
I took the thing seriously , and I let every mean fisted curmudgeon and crazy fanatic worry me , and keep me on pins and needles . 
I don't do that any more . 
I've taken a new measure of life . 
I see now what life is really worth , and I'm going to have my share of it . 
I will be as free to enjoy myself as as Father Forbes . 
Celia smiled softly , and shook her head again . 
Poor man , to call HIM free ! she said why , he is bound hand and foot . 
Let us sit down here for a little , said Theron we seem at the end of the path . 
She seated herself on the root based mound , and he reclined at her side , with an arm carelessly extended behind her on the moss . 
I can see what you mean , he went on , after a pause . 
But to me , do you know , there is an enormous fascination in celibacy . 
You forget that I know the reverse of the medal . 
I know how the mind can be cramped , the nerves harassed , the ambitions spoiled and rotted , the whole existence darkened and belittled , by by the other thing . 
I have never talked to you before about my marriage . 
I don't think we'd better talk about it now , observed Celia . 
There must be many more amusing topics . 
He missed the spirit of her remark . 
You are right , he said slowly . 
It is too sad a thing to talk about . 
But there ! it is my load , and I bear it , and there's nothing more to be said . 
Theron drew a heavy sigh , and let his fingers toy abstractedly with a ribbon on the outer edge of Celia's penumbra of apparel . 
We mustn't snivel , and we mustn't sulk . 
I don't know that I've ever seen your wife . 
I suppose she hasn't got red hair ? I think it's a kind of light brown , answered Theron , with an effect of exerting his memory . 
It seems that you only take notice of hair in stained glass windows , was Celia's comment . 
Oh h ! he murmured reproachfully , as if as if but I won't say what I was going to . 
That's not fair ! she said . 
The little touch of whimsical mockery which she gave to the serious declaration was delicious to him . 
I grow afraid of you you are so subtle and mysterious in your reserves . 
Theron gave a tug at the ribbon , to show the joy he had in her delicate chaff . 
No , it is you who are secretive , he said . 
You never told me about about the piano . 
The word was out ! A minute before it had seemed incredible to him that he should ever have the courage to utter it but here it was . 
He laid firm hold upon the ribbon , which it appeared hung from her waist , and drew himself a trifle nearer to her . 
I could never have consented to take it , I'm afraid , he went on in a low voice , if I had known . 
And even as it is , I fear it won't be possible . 
What are you afraid of ? asked Celia . 
Why shouldn't you take it ? People in your profession never do get anything unless it's given to them , do they ? I've always understood it was like that . 
I've often read of donation parties that's what they're called , isn't it ? where everybody is supposed to bring some gift to the minister . 
Very well , then , I've simply had a donation party of my own , that's all . 
Unless you mean that my being a Catholic makes a difference . 
I had supposed you were quite free from that kind of prejudice . 
So I am ! Believe me , I am ! urged Theron . 
When I'm with you , it seems impossible to realize that there are people so narrow and contracted in their natures as to take account of such things . 
It is another atmosphere that I breathe near you . 
Whatever your religion is , it's mine too . 
You remember you adopted me as a Greek . 
Did I ? she rejoined . 
Well , if that's the case , it leaves you without a leg to stand on . 
I challenge you to find any instance where a Greek made any difficulties about accepting a piano from a friend . 
It was later , when I was talking to Thurston's people about the price , that the whim seized me . 
Now it is the one fixed rule of my life to obey my whims . 
Whatever occurs to me as a possibly pleasant thing to do , straight like a hash , I go and do it . 
It is the only way that a person with means , with plenty of money , can preserve any freshness of character . 
If they stop to think what it would be prudent to do , they get crusted over immediately . 
That is the curse of rich people they teach themselves to distrust and restrain every impulse toward unusual actions . 
They get to feel that it is more necessary for them to be cautious and conventional than it is for others . 
I would rather work at a wash tub than occupy that attitude toward my bank account . 
I fight against any sign of it that I detect rising in my mind . 
The instant a wish occurs to me , I rush to gratify it . 
That is my theory of life . 
That accounts for the piano and I don't see that you've anything to say about it at all . 
It seemed very convincing , this theory of life . 
Somehow , the thought of Miss Madden's riches had never before assumed prominence in Theron's mind . 
Of course her father was very wealthy , but it had not occurred to him that the daughter's emancipation might run to the length of a personal fortune . 
He knew so little of rich people and their ways ! He lifted his head , and looked up at Celia with an awakened humility and awe in his glance . 
The glamour of a separate banking account shone upon her . 
Where the soft woodland light played in among the strands of her disordered hair , he saw the veritable gleam of gold . 
A mysterious new suggestion of power blended itself with the beauty of her face , was exhaled in the faint perfume of her garments . 
He maintained a timorous hold upon the ribbon , wondering at his hardihood in touching it , or being near her at all . 
What surprises me , he heard himself saying , is that you are contented to stay in Octavius . 
I should think that you would travel go abroad see the beautiful things of the world , surround yourself with the luxuries of big cities and that sort of thing . 
Celia regarded the forest prospect straight in front of her with a pensive gaze . 
Sometime no doubt I will sometime , she said abstractedly . 
One reads so much nowadays , he went on , of American heiresses going to Europe and marrying dukes and noblemen . 
I suppose you will do that too . 
Princes would fight one another for you . 
The least touch of a smile softened for an instant the impassivity of her countenance . 
Then she stared harder than ever at the vague , leafy distance . 
You don't understand , my friend , that I have a different view . 
I am myself , and I belong to myself , exactly as much as any man . 
I should be ashamed to be alive for another day , if any other thought were possible to me . 
That is not the generally accepted view , I should think , faltered Theron . 
No more is it the accepted view that young married Methodist ministers should sit out alone in the woods with red headed Irish girls . 
No , my friend , let us find what the generally accepted views are , and as fast as we find them set our heels on them . 
There is no other way to live like real human beings . 
I have nothing to do with them . 
They cannot make any rules for me . 
If pride and dignity and independence are dead in them , why , so much the worse for them ! It is no affair of mine . 
Certainly it is no reason why I should get down and grovel also . 
No I at least stand erect on my legs . 
Mr. Ware sat up , and stared confusedly , with round eyes and parted lips , at his companion . 
The words rose in their order on his memory , hard and sharp edged , like arrow heads . 
He could have killed the doctor at that moment . 
With an effort , he drove the foul things from his mind scattered them back into the darkness . 
He felt that he had grown pale , and wondered if she had heard the groan that seemed to have been forced from him in the struggle . 
Or was the groan imaginary ? Celia continued to sit unmoved , composedly looking upon vacancy . 
Theron's eyes searched her face in vain for any sign of consciousness that she had astounded and bewildered him . 
She did not seem to be thinking of him at all . 
The proud calm of her thoughtful countenance suggested instead occupation with lofty and remote abstractions and noble ideals . 
Contemplating her , he suddenly perceived that what she had been saying was great , wonderful , magnificent . 
An involuntary thrill ran through his veins at recollection of her words . 
It was nothing less than another Declaration of Independence he had been listening to . 
He sank again recumbent at her side , and stretched the arm behind her , nearer than before . 
Apparently , then , you will never marry . 
His voice trembled a little . 
Most certainly not ! said Celia . 
I should think that the idea of sacrificing herself would seem to her even sadder still . 
I don't remember that we mentioned THAT , she replied . 
How do you mean sacrificing herself ? Theron gathered some of the outlying folds of her dress in his hand , and boldly patted and caressed them . 
Celia laughed a gentle , amused little laugh , in which Theron's ears traced elements of tenderness . 
You must regulate that imagination of yours , she said playfully . 
It conceives the thing that is not . 
I cannot think ! he groaned . 
The thing that came uppermost in his mind , as it swayed and rocked in the tempest of emotion , was the strange reminiscence of early childhood in it all . 
It was like being a little boy again , nestling in an innocent , unthinking transport of affection against his mother's skirts . 
He had not comprehended at all before what wellsprings of spiritual beauty , what limpid depths of idealism , his nature contained . 
We were speaking of our respective religions , he heard Celia say , as imperturbably as if there had been no digression worth mentioning . 
Yes , he assented , and moved his head so that he looked up at her back hair , and the leaves high above , mottled against the sky . 
The wish to lie there , where now he could just catch the rose leaf line of her under chin as well , was very strong upon him . 
I cannot talk to you like that , she said and he sat up again shamefacedly . 
Yes I think we were speaking of religions some time ago , he faltered , to relieve the situation . 
The dreadful thought that she might be annoyed began to oppress him . 
Well , you said whatever my religion was , it was yours too . 
That entitles you at least to be told what the religion is . 
Now , I am a Catholic . 
Theron , much mystified , nodded his head . 
Could it be possible was there coming a deliberate suggestion that he should become a convert ? Yes I know , he murmured . 
But I should explain that I am only a Catholic in the sense that its symbolism is pleasant to me . 
You remember what Schopenhauer said you cannot have the water by itself you must also have the jug that it is in . 
Very well the Catholic religion is my jug . 
I put into it the things I like . 
They were all there long ago , thousands of years ago . 
The Jews threw them out we will put them back again . 
We will restore art and poetry and the love of beauty , and the gentle , spiritual , soulful life . 
The Greeks had it and Christianity would have had it too , if it hadn't been for those brutes they call the Fathers . 
They loved ugliness and dirt and the thought of hell fire . 
In all the earlier stages of the Church , women were very prominent in it . 
Jesus himself appreciated women , and delighted to have them about him , and talk with them and listen to them . 
But the very man , Cyril , who killed Hypatia , and thus began the dark ages , unwittingly did another thing which makes one almost forgive him . 
To please the Egyptians , he secured the Church's acceptance of the adoration of the Virgin . 
It is that idea which has kept the Greek spirit alive , and grown and grown , till at last it will rule the world . 
It was only epileptic Jews who could imagine a religion without sex in it . 
I remember the pictures of the Virgin in your room , said Theron , feeling more himself again . 
I wondered if they quite went with the statues . 
The remark won a smile from Celia's lips . 
They get along together better than you suppose , she answered . 
Besides , they are not all pictures of Mary . 
One of them , standing on the moon , is of Isis with the infant Horus in her arms . 
Almost every religion had its Immaculate Conception . 
It is that that makes the world go round . 
Brave thoughts shaped themselves in Theron's mind , and shone forth in a confident yet wistful smile on his face . 
lt is a pity you cannot change estates with me for one minute , he said , in steady , low tone . 
Then you would realize the tremendous truth of what you have been saying . 
It is only your intellect that has reached out and grasped the idea . 
If you were in my place , you would discover that your heart was bursting with it as well . 
Celia turned and looked at him . 
I myself , he went on , would not have known , half an hour ago , what you meant by the worship of the maternal idea . 
I am much older than you . 
I am a strong , mature man . 
But when I lay down there , and shut my eyes because the charm and marvel of this whole experience had for the moment overcome me the strangest sensation seized upon me . 
It was absolutely as if I were a boy again , a good , pure minded , fond little child , and you were the mother that I idolized . 
Celia had not taken her eyes from his face . 
I find myself liking you better at this moment , she said , with gravity , than I have ever liked you before . 
Then , as by a sudden impulse , she sprang to her feet . 
Come ! she cried , her voice and manner all vivacity once more , we have been here long enough . 
Upon the instant , as Theron was more laboriously getting up , it became apparent to them both that perhaps they had been there too long . 
Upon the discovery that he was in turn observed , he resumed his interrupted progress through the woods , whistling softly as he went , and vanished among the trees . 
Heavens above ! groaned Theron , shudderingly . 
Know him ? he went on , in answer to the glance of inquiry on his companion's face . 
I should think I did ! He spades my my wife's garden for her . 
He used to bring our milk . 
He works in the law office of one of my trustees the one who isn't friendly to me , but is very friendly indeed with my with Mrs. Ware . 
Oh , what shall I do ? It may easily mean my ruin ! Celia looked at him attentively . 
The color had gone out of his face , and with it the effect of earnestness and mental elevation which , a minute before , had caught her fancy . 
Somehow , I fear that I do not like you quite so much just now , my friend , she remarked . 
In God's name , don't say that ! urged Theron . 
He raised his voice in agitated entreaty . 
You don't know what these people are how they would leap at the barest hint of a scandal about me . 
In my position I am a thousand times more defenceless than any woman . 
Theron stared at her , as if he had not grasped her meaning . 
Then he winced visibly under it , and put out his hands to implore her . 
Forgive me ! Forgive me ! he pleaded . 
I was beside myself for the moment with the fright of the thing . 
Oh , say you do forgive me , Celia ! He made haste to support this daring use of her name . 
When he took her hand she did not withdraw it , but turned and nodded in musing general assent to what he had said . 
Yes , we have both been unstrung , as you call it , today , she said , decidedly out of pitch . 
Let each forgive the other , and say no more about it . 
She took his arm , and they retraced their steps along the path , again in silence . 
The labored noise of the orchestra , as it were , returned to meet them . 
They halted at an intersecting footpath . 
I go back to my slavery my double bondage , said Theron , letting his voice sink to a sigh . 
But even if I am put on the rack for it , I shall have had one day of glory . 
I think you may kiss me , in memory of that one day or of a few minutes in that day , said Celia . 
Their lips brushed each other in a swift , almost perfunctory caress . 
Theron went his way at a hurried pace , the sobered tones of her good bye beating upon his brain with every measure of the droning waltz music . 
PART IV CHAPTER XXV The memory of the kiss abode with Theron . 
Like Aaron's rod , it swallowed up one by one all competing thoughts and recollections , and made his brain its slave . 
Even as he strode back through the woods to the camp meeting , it was the kiss that kept his feet in motion , and guided their automatic course . 
All along the watches of the restless night , it was the kiss that bore him sweet company , and wandered with him from one broken dream of bliss to another . 
Next day , it was the kiss that made of life for him a sort of sunlit wonderland . 
He preached his sermon in the morning , and took his appointed part in the other services of afternoon and evening , apparently to everybody's satisfaction to him it was all a vision . 
He went out alone into the light , and bared his head to it , and stood motionless for a long time . 
In all his life , he had never been impelled as powerfully toward earnest and soulful thanksgiving . 
The impulse to kneel , there in the pure , tender moonlight , and lift up offerings of praise to God , kept uppermost in his mind . 
Some formless resignation restrained him from the act itself , but the spirit of it hallowed his mood . 
He gazed up at the broad luminous face of the satellite . 
You are our God , he murmured . 
Hers and mine ! You are the most beautiful of heavenly creatures , as she is of the angels on earth . 
I am speechless with reverence for you both . 
The kiss was a child of the forest . 
Suggestions of its beauty and holiness came to him in the odors of the woodland , at the sight of wild flowers and water lilies . 
His fancy dwelt upon some such nook as the enchanted home of the fairy that possessed his soul . 
The place , though he never found it , became real to him . 
With the homecoming to Octavius , his dreams began to take more account of realities . 
In a day or two he was wide awake , and thinking hard . 
It advanced out into the noonday , and assumed tangible dimensions and substance . 
He saw that it was related to the facts of his daily life , and had , in turn , altered his own relations to all these facts . 
What ought he to do ? What COULD he do ? Apparently , nothing but wait . 
He waited for a week then for another week . 
The conclusion that the initiative had been left to him began to take shape in his mind . 
From this it seemed but a step to the passionate resolve to act at once . 
Turning the situation over and over in his anxious thoughts , two things stood out in special prominence . 
One was that Celia loved him . 
The other was that the boy in Gorringe's law office , and possibly Gorringe , and heaven only knew how many others besides , had reasons for suspecting this to be true . 
And what about Celia ? Side by side with the moving rapture of thinking about her as a woman , there rose the substantial satisfaction of contemplating her as Miss Madden . 
She had kissed him , and she was very rich . 
The things gradually linked themselves before his eyes . 
And as to the boy . 
What would happen to him if a formal charge were preferred against him ? He looked it up in the Discipline . 
Of course , if his accusers magnified their mean suspicions and calumnious imaginings to the point of formulating a charge , it would be one of immorality . 
They could prove nothing there was nothing to prove . 
At the worst , it was an indiscretion , which would involve his being admonished by his Presiding Elder . 
His relation to the church would be the same as if he had been expelled , but to the outer world it would be different . 
And supposing he did withdraw from the ministry ? Yes this was the important point . 
What if he did abandon this mistaken profession of his ? On its mental side the relief would be prodigious , unthinkable . 
But on the practical side , the bread and butter side ? For some days Theron paused with a shudder when he reached this question . 
The thought of the plunge into unknown material responsibilities gave him a sinking heart . 
He tried to imagine himself lecturing , canvassing for books or insurance policies , writing for newspapers and remained frightened . 
But suddenly one day it occurred to him that these qualms and forebodings were sheer folly . 
It was absurd not to have thought of that before . 
He recalled her momentary anger with him , that afternoon in the woods , when he had cried out that discovery would mean ruin to him . 
He saw clearly enough now that she had been grieved at his want of faith in her protection . 
It was plain enough now . 
If he got into hot water , it would be solely on account of his having been seen with her . 
That was all right , then . 
Slowly , from this point , suggestions expanded themselves . 
Should he will it ! Ah ! the question answered itself . 
But he could not enter upon this beckoning heaven of a future until he had freed himself . 
When Celia said to him , Come ! he must not be in the position to reply , I should like to , but unfortunately I am tied by the leg . 
He should have to leave Octavius , leave the ministry , leave everything . 
He could not begin too soon to face these contingencies . 
Very likely Celia had not thought it out as far as this . 
With her , it was a mere vague sometime I may . 
But the harder masculine sense , Theron felt , existed for the very purpose of correcting and giving point to these loose feminine notions of time and space . 
It was for him to clear away the obstacles , and map the plans out with definite decision . 
Two ladies whose voices were strange to him had stopped as so many people almost daily stopped to admire the garden of the parsonage . 
One of them expressed her pleasure in general terms . 
Said the other My husband declares those dahlias alone couldn't be matched for thirty dollars , and that some of those gladiolus must have cost three or four dollars apiece . 
I know we've spent simply oceans of money on our garden , and it doesn't begin to compare with this . 
It seems like a sinful waste to me , said her companion . 
No o , the other hesitated . 
No , I don't think quite that if you can afford it just as well as not . 
But it does seem to me that I'd rather live in a little better house , and not spend it ALL on flowers . 
Just LOOK at that cactus ! The voices died away . 
Theron sat up , with a look of arrested thought upon his face , then sprang to his feet and moved hurriedly through the parlor to an open front window . 
Peering out with caution he saw that the two women receding from view were fashionably dressed and evidently came from homes of means . 
He stared after them in a blank way until they turned a corner . 
He went into the hall then , put on his frock coat and hat , and stepped out into the garden . 
He was conscious of having rather avoided it heretofore not altogether without reasons of his own , lying unexamined somewhere in the recesses of his mind . 
Now he walked slowly about , and examined the flowers with great attentiveness . 
The season was advancing , and he saw that many plants had gone out of bloom . 
But what a magnificent plenitude of blossoms still remained ! Thirty dollars' worth of dahlias that was what the stranger had said . 
He remembered that the boy in Gorringe's office had spoken of just one lot of plants costing thirty one dollars and sixty cents , and there had been two other lots as well . 
The figures remained surprisingly distinct in his memory . 
It was no good deceiving himself any longer of course these were the plants that Gorringe had spent his money upon , here all about him . 
As he surveyed them with a sour regard , a cool breeze stirred across the garden . 
Yes , Levi Gorringe paid for us ! He almost heard their mocking declaration . 
Out in the back yard , where a longer day of sunshine dwelt , there were many other flowers , and notably a bed of geraniums which literally made the eye ache . 
Standing at this rear corner of the house , he caught the droning sound of Alice's voice , humming a hymn to herself as she went about her kitchen work . 
He saw her through the open window . 
She was sweeping , and had a sort of cap on her head which did not add to the graces of her appearance . 
She must have realized at the time how odious the enforced companionship was to him . 
Yes , beyond doubt she did . 
It came back to him now that they had spoken but rarely to each other . 
She had not even praised his sermon upon the Sabbath question , which every one else had been in raptures over . 
For that matter she no longer praised anything he did , and took obvious pains to preserve toward him a distant demeanor . 
So much the better , he felt himself thinking . 
If she chose to behave in that offish and unwifely fashion , she could blame no one but herself for its results . 
She had seen him , and came now to the window , watering pot and broom in hand . 
She put her head out , to breathe a breath of dustless air , and began as if she would smile on him . 
Then her face chilled and stiffened , as she caught his look . 
Shall you be home for supper ? she asked , in her iciest tone . 
He had not thought of going out before . 
The question , and the manner of it , gave immediate urgency to the idea of going somewhere . 
I may or I may not , he replied . 
It is quite impossible for me to say . 
He turned on his heel with this , and walked briskly out of the yard and down the street . 
Every day since his return from the woods he had given the fates this chance of bringing Celia to meet him , without avail . 
He had hung about in the vicinity of the Catholic church on several evenings as well , but to no purpose . 
The organ inside was dumb , and he could detect no signs of Celia's presence on the curtains of the pastorate next door . 
This day , too , there was no one visible at the home of the Maddens , and he walked on , a little sadly . 
It was weary work waiting for the signal that never came . 
His mind reverted doggedly to the flowers in his garden , and to Alice's behavior toward him . 
They insisted upon connecting themselves in his thoughts . 
And his experiencing religion afterward , just when Alice did , and marching down to the rail to kneel beside her that was a thing to be thought of , too . 
Meditation , it is true , hardly threw fresh light upon the matter . 
It was incredible , of course , that there should be anything wrong . 
To even shape a thought of Alice in connection with gallantry would be wholly impossible . 
Nor could it be said that Gorringe , in his new capacity as a professing church member , had disclosed any sign of ulterior motives , or of insincerity . 
Yet there the facts were . 
While Theron pondered them , their mystery , if they involved a mystery , baffled him altogether . 
But when he had finished , he found himself all the same convinced that neither Alice nor Gorringe would be free to blame him for anything he might do . 
He had grounds for complaint against them . 
If he did not himself know just what these grounds were , it was certain enough that THEY knew . 
Very well , then , let them take the responsibility for what happened . 
His lean face , browned by the summer's exposure , had a more Arabian aspect than ever . 
His hands were in his pockets , and he held an unlighted cigar between his teeth . 
Mr. Ware over calmly , and nodded recognition . 
On the instant he would have given a great deal not to have stopped at all . 
It was stupid of him to have paused , but it would not do now to go on without words of some sort . 
He moved over to the door way , and made a half hearted pretence of looking at the photographs in one of the show cases at its side . 
As Mr. Gorringe did not take his hands from his pockets , there was no occasion for any formal greeting . 
I had no idea that they took such good pictures in Octavius , Theron remarked after a minute's silence , still bending in examination of the photographs . 
They ought to they charge New York prices , observed the lawyer , sententiously . 
Theron found in the words confirmation of his feeling that Gorringe was not naturally a lavish or extravagant man . 
Rather was he a careful and calculating man , who spent money only for a purpose . 
Though the minister continued gazing at the stiff presentments of local beauties and swains , his eyes seemed to see salmon hued hollyhocks and spotted lilies instead . 
Suddenly a resolve came to him . 
He stood erect , and faced his trustee . 
Why mention it now ? queried Gorringe , with nonchalance . 
He turned his cigar about with a movement of his lips , and worked it into the corner of his mouth . 
He did not find it necessary to look at Theron at all . 
You are no more under obligation to me than I am to you . 
Oh , no , make yourself easy about that . 
Neither of us owes the other anything . 
Not even good will I take that to be your meaning , retorted Theron , with some heat . 
The words are yours , sir , responded Gorringe , coolly . 
I do not object to them . 
As you like , put in the other . 
If it be so , why , then all the more reason why I should , under the circumstances Under what circumstances ? interposed the lawyer . 
Let us be clear about this thing as we go along . 
To what circumstances do you refer ? He had turned his eyes now , and looked Theron in the face . 
A slight protrusion of his lower jaw had given the cigar an upward tilt under the black mustache . 
The circumstances are that you have brought or sent to my garden a great many very expensive flower plants and bushes and so on . 
And you object ? I had not supposed that clergymen in general and you in particular were so sensitive . 
Have donation parties , then , gone out of date ? I understand your sneer well enough , retorted Theron , but that can pass . 
The main point is , that you did me the honor to send these plants or to smuggle them in but never once deigned to hint to me that you had done so . 
Except by mere accident , I should not have known to this day where they came from . 
Mr. Gorringe twisted the cigar at another angle , with lines of grim amusement about the corner of his mouth . 
That is precisely it , sir , said Theron . 
There were people passing , and he was forced to keep his voice down . 
It would have been a relief , he felt , to shout . 
That is it they were not intended for me . 
Well , then , what are you talking about ? The lawyer's speech had become abrupt almost to incivility . 
I think my remarks have been perfectly clear , said the minister , with dignity . 
It was a new experience to be addressed in that fashion . 
It occurred to him to add , Please remember that I am not in the witness box , to be bullied or insulted by a professional . 
Gorringe studied Theron's face attentively with a cold , searching scrutiny . 
You may thank your stars you're not ! he said , with significance . 
What on earth could he mean ? The words and the menacing tone greatly impressed Theron . 
Indeed , upon reflection , he found that they frightened him . 
The disposition to adopt a high tone with the lawyer was melting away . 
The lawyer scowled , and bit sharply into the cigar , but said nothing . 
If I have unconsciously offended you in any way , Theron went on , I beg you to tell me how . 
I liked you from the beginning of my pastorate here , and the thought that latterly we seemed to be drifting apart has given me much pain . 
But now it is still more distressing to find you actually disposed to quarrel with me . 
Surely , Brother Gorringe , between a pastor and a probationer who No , Gorringe broke in quarrel isn't the word for it . 
There isn't any quarrel , Mr. Ware . 
He stepped down from the door stone to the sidewalk as he spoke , and stood face to face with Theron . 
Theron stood confounded , with an empty stare of bewilderment on his face . 
It rose in his mind that the right thing to feel was rage , righteous indignation , fury but for the life of him , he could not muster any manly anger . 
The character of the insult stupefied him . 
I do not know that I have anything to say to you in reply , he remarked , after what seemed to him a silence of minutes . 
His lips framed the words automatically , but they expressed well enough the blank vacancy of his mind . 
The suggestion that anybody deemed him a poor creature grew more astounding , incomprehensible , as it swelled in his brain . 
No , I suppose not , snapped Gorringe . 
You're not the sort to stand up to men your form is to go round the corner and take it out of somebody weaker than yourself a defenceless woman , for instance . 
Oh ho ! said Theron . 
The exclamation had uttered itself . 
The sound of it seemed to clarify his muddled thoughts and as they ranged themselves in order , he began to understand . 
Oh ho ! he said again , and nodded his head in token of comprehension . 
The lawyer , chewing his cigar with increased activity , glared at him . 
What do you mean ? he demanded peremptorily . 
Mean ? said the minister . 
Oh , nothing that I feel called upon to explain to you . 
It was passing strange , but his self possession had all at once returned to him . 
He looked into the other's dusky face , and flaunted this smile at it in contemptuous defiance . 
It is not a subject that I can discuss with propriety at this stage , he added . 
Go and strike my name off the list ! said Gorringe , with rising passion . 
I was a fool to ever have it there . 
To think of being a probationer of yours my God ! That will be a pity from one point of view , remarked Theron , still with the ironical smile on his lips . 
You seemed to enter upon the new life with such deliberation and fixity of purpose , too ! I can imagine the regrets your withdrawal will cause , in certain quarters . 
I only hope that it will not discourage those who accompanied you to the altar , and shared your enthusiasm at the time . 
He had spoken throughout with studied slowness and an insolent nicety of utterance . 
You had better go away ! broke forth Gorringe . 
If you don't , I shall forget myself . 
For the first time ? asked Theron . 
Then , warned by the flash in the lawyer's eye , he turned on his heel and sauntered , with a painstaking assumption of a mind quite at ease , up the street . 
Gorringe's own face twitched and his veins tingled as he looked after him . 
Well , I'm damned ! he said aloud to himself . 
The photographer had come down to take in his showcases for the night . 
He looked up from his task at the exclamation , and grinned inquiringly . 
I've just been talking to a man , said the lawyer , who's so much meaner than any other man I ever heard of that it takes my breath away . 
He's got a wife that's as pure and good as gold , and he knows it , and she worships the ground he walks on , and he knows that too . 
And yet the scoundrel is around trying to sniff out some shadow of a pretext for misusing her worse than he's already done . 
I didn't think there was such an out and out cur on this whole footstool . 
CHAPTER XXVI Theron spent half an hour in aimless strolling about the streets . 
From earliest boyhood his mind had always worked most clearly when he walked alone . 
He had a very direct and vivid consciousness now that it was good to be on his legs , and alone . 
He had never in his life been more sensible of the charm of his own companionship . 
The encounter with Gorringe seemed to have cleared all the clouds out of his brain , and restored lightness to his heart . 
After such an object lesson , the impossibility of his continuing to sacrifice himself to a notion of duty to these low minded and coarse natured villagers was beyond all argument . 
And the question of Gorringe and Alice , that too stood precisely where he wanted it . 
Even in his own thoughts , he preferred to pursue it no further . 
Between them somewhere an offence of concealment , it might be of conspiracy , had been committed against him . 
It was no business of his to say more , or to think more . 
He rested his case simply on the fact , which could not be denied , and which he was not in the least interested to have explained , one way or the other . 
The recollection of Gorringe's obvious disturbance of mind was especially pleasant to him . 
He himself had been magnanimous almost to the point of weakness . 
He had gone out of his way to call the man brother , and to give him an opportunity of behaving like a gentleman but his kindly forbearance had been wasted . 
Gorringe was not the man to understand generous feelings , much less rise to their level . 
He had merely shown that he would be vicious if he knew how . 
It was more important and satisfactory to recall that he had also shown a complete comprehension of the injured husband's grievance . 
The fact that he had recognized it was enough was , in fact , everything . 
In the background of his thoughts Theron had carried along a notion of going and dining with Father Forbes when the time for the evening meal should arrive . 
The idea in itself attracted him , as a fitting capstone to his resolve not to go home to supper . 
It gave just the right kind of character to his domestic revolt . 
Perhaps he might even find her there but he put that suggestion aside as slightly unpleasant . 
The hag faced housekeeper led him , as before , into the dining room . 
It was still daylight , and he saw on the glance that the priest was alone at the table , with a book beside him to read from as he ate . 
Father Forbes rose and came forward , greeting his visitor with profuse urbanity and smiles . 
If there was a perfunctory note in the invitation to sit down and share the meal , Theron did not catch it . 
He frankly displayed his pleasure as he laid aside his hat , and took the chair opposite his host . 
Yet it might have been years , many long years , so tremendous is the difference that the lapse of time has wrought in me . 
May I send you a bit of this boiled mutton ? I have very homely tastes when I am by myself . 
I don't know how to describe to you the enormous change that has come over me and I owe it all to you . 
I can only hope , then , that it is entirely of a satisfactory nature , said the priest , politely smiling . 
Oh , it is so splendidly satisfactory ! said Theron , with fervor . 
I look back at myself now with wonder and pity . 
And you have larger ambitions now ? asked the other . 
Pray let me help you to some potatoes . 
I am afraid that ambitions only get in our way and trip us up . 
We clergymen are like street car horses . 
The more steadily we jog along between the rails , the better it is for us . 
Oh , I don't intend to remain in the ministry , declared Theron . 
With you , of course , it is different . 
You have a thousand things to interest and pleasantly occupy you in your work and its ceremonies , so that mere belief or non belief in the dogma hardly matters . 
But in our church dogma is everything . 
If you take that away , or cease to have its support , the rest is intolerable , hideous . 
Father Forbes cut another slice of mutton for himself . 
It is a pretty serious business to make such a change at your time of life . 
I take it for granted you will think it all over very carefully before you commit yourself . 
He said this with an almost indifferent air , which rather chilled his listener's enthusiasm . 
Oh , yes , , Theron made answer I shall do nothing rash . 
But I have a good many plans for the future . 
Father Forbes did not ask what these were , and a brief further period of silence fell upon the table . 
I hope everything went off smoothly at the picnic , Theron ventured , at last . 
I have not seen any of you since then . 
The priest shook his head and sighed . 
It is a bad business . 
I have had a great deal of unhappiness out of it this past fortnight . 
That young man who was rude to you of course it was mere drunken , irresponsible nonsense on his part has got himself into a serious scrape , I'm afraid . 
It is being kept quite within the family , and we hope to manage so that it will remain there , but it has terribly upset his father and his sister . 
But that , after all , is not so hard to bear as the other affliction that has come upon the Maddens . 
You remember Michael , the other brother ? He seems to have taken cold that evening , or perhaps over exerted himself . 
He has been seized with quick consumption . 
He will hardly last till snow flies . 
Oh , I am GRIEVED to hear that ! Theron spoke with tremulous earnestness . 
It seemed to him as if Michael were in some way related to him . 
It is very hard upon them all , the priest went on . 
Michael is as sweet and holy a character as it is possible for any one to think of . 
He is the apple of his father's eye . 
They were inseparable , those two . 
Do you know the father , Mr. Madden ? Theron shook his head . 
I think I have seen him , he said . 
A small man , with gray whiskers . 
A peasant , said Father Forbes , but with a heart of gold . 
Poor man ! he has had little enough out of his riches . 
The sharp air here kills them off like flies in a frost . 
I should think there are a dozen of old Jeremiah's children in the cemetery . 
If Michael could have passed his twenty eighth year , there would have been hope for him , at least till his thirty fifth . 
These pulmonary things seem to go by sevens , you know . 
I didn't know , said Theron . 
It is very strange and very sad . 
His startled mind was busy , all at once , with conjectures as to Celia's age . 
The sister Miss Madden seems extremely strong , he remarked tentatively . 
Celia may escape the general doom , said the priest . 
His guest noted that he clenched his shapely white hand on the table as he spoke , and that his gentle , carefully modulated voice had a gritty hardness in its tone . 
THAT would be too dreadful to think of , he added . 
Theron shuddered in silence , and strove to shut his mind against the thought . 
She has taken Michael's illness so deeply to heart , the priest proceeded , and devoted herself to him so untiringly that I get a little nervous about her . 
I have been urging her to go away and get a change of air and scene , if only for a few days . 
She does not sleep well , and that is always a bad thing . 
I think I remember her telling me once that sometimes she had sleepless spells , said Theron . 
She said that then she banged on her piano at all hours , or dragged the cushions about from room to room , like a wild woman . 
A very interesting young lady , don't you find her so ? Father Forbes let a wan smile play on his lips . 
What , our Celia ? he said . 
Interesting ! Why , Mr. Ware , there is no one like her in the world . 
She is as unique as what shall I say ? as the Irish are among races . 
Her father and mother were both born in mud cabins , and she she might be the daughter of a hundred kings , except that they seem mostly rather under witted than otherwise . 
She always impresses me as a sort of atavistic idealization of the old Kelt at his finest and best . 
They brought with them at the outset a great inheritance of Eastern mysticism . 
Others lost it , but the Irish , all alone on their island , kept it alive and brooded on it , and rooted their whole spiritual side in it . 
Their religion is full of it their blood is full of it our Celia is fuller of it than anybody else . 
The Ireland of two thousand years ago is incarnated in her . 
These impossible contradictions war ceaselessly in their blood . 
When I look at Celia , I seem to see in my mind's eye the fair young ancestral mother of them all . 
Theron gazed at the speaker with open admiration . 
I love to hear you talk , he said simply . 
An unbidden memory flitted upward in his mind . 
Those were the very words that Alice had so often on her lips in their old courtship days . 
How curious it was ! He looked at the priest , and had a quaint sensation of feeling as a romantic woman must feel in the presence of a specially impressive masculine personality . 
No doubt this was a part of the great sex mystery which historically surrounded the figure of the celibate priest as with an atmosphere . 
Women had always been prostrating themselves before it . 
Theron , watching his companion's full , pallid face in the lamp light , tried to fancy himself in the priest's place , looking down upon these worshipping female forms . 
He wondered what the celibate's attitude really was . 
Father Forbes , after his rhetorical outburst , and been eating . 
He pushed aside his cheese plate . 
I grow enthusiastic on the subject of my race sometimes , he remarked , with the suggestion of an apology . 
But I make up for it other times most of the time by scolding them . 
If it were not such a noble thing to be an Irishman , it would be ridiculous . 
Ah , said Theron , deprecatingly , who would not be enthusiastic in talking of Miss Madden ? What you said about her was perfect . 
The priest offered no comment , and Theron went on I hardly know how to describe the remarkable impression she makes upon me . 
I can't imagine to myself any other young woman so brilliant or broad in her views , or so courageous . 
Of course , her being so rich makes it easier for her to do just what she wants to do , but her bravery is astonishing all the same . 
We had a long and very sympathetic talk in the woods , that day of the picnic , after we left you . 
I don't know whether she spoke to you about it ? Father Forbes made a movement of the head and eyes which seemed to negative the suggestion . 
Her talk , continued Theron , gave me quite new ideas of the range and capacity of the female mind . 
I wonder that everybody in Octavius isn't full of praise and admiration for her talents and exceptional character . 
In such a small town as this , you would think she would be the centre of attention the pride of the place . 
I think she has as much praise as is good for her , remarked the priest , quietly . 
And here's a thing that puzzles me , pursued Mr. Ware . 
I was immensely surprised to find that Dr . 
Ledsmar doesn't even think she is smart or at least he professes the utmost intellectual contempt for her , and says he dislikes her into the bargain . 
But of course she dislikes him , too , so that's only natural . 
But I can't understand his denying her great ability . 
The priest smiled in a dubious way . 
Don't borrow unnecessary alarm about that , Mr. Ware , he said , with studied smoothness of modulated tones . 
These two good friends of mine have much enjoyment out of the idea that they are fighting for the mastery over my poor unstable character . 
It has grown to be a habit with them , and a hobby as well , and they pursue it with tireless zest . 
There are not many intellectual diversions open to us here , and they make the most of this one . 
It amuses them , and it is not without its charms for me , in my capacity as an interested observer . 
It is a part of the game that they should pretend to themselves that they detest each other . 
In reality I fancy that they like each other very much . 
At any rate , there is nothing to be disturbed about . 
His mellifluous tones had somehow the effect of suggesting to Theron that he was an outsider and would better mind his own business . 
Ah , if this purring pussy cat of a priest only knew how little of an outsider he really was ! The thought gave him an easy self control . 
Of course , he said , our warm mutual friendship makes the observation of these little individual vagaries merely a part of a delightful whole . 
I should not dream of discussing Miss Madden's confidences to me , or the doctor's either , outside our own little group . 
Father Forbes reached behind him and took from a chair his black three cornered cap with the tassel . 
Unfortunately I have a sick call waiting me , he said , gathering up his gown and slowly rising . 
Yes , I saw the man sitting in the hall , remarked Theron , getting to his feet . 
I would ask you to go upstairs and wait , the priest went on , but my return , unhappily , is quite uncertain . 
Another evening I may be more fortunate . 
I am leaving town tomorrow for some days , but when I get back The polite sentence did not complete itself . 
When the door had closed upon Mr. Ware , the priest turned to the man . 
You have come about those frames , he said . 
If you will come upstairs , I will show you the prints , and you can give me a notion of what can be done with them . 
I rather fancy the idea of a triptych in carved old English , if you can manage it . 
Then something occurred to him , and he touched the house bell at his elbow . 
Maggie , he said gently , when the housekeeper appeared at the door , I will have the coffee and FINE CHAMPAGNE up here , if it is no trouble . 
And oh , Maggie I was compelled this evening to turn the blameless visit of the framemaker into a venial sin , and that involves a needless wear and tear of conscience . 
I think that hereafter you understand ? I am not invariably at home when the Rev . 
Mr. Ware does me the honor to call . 
CHAPTER XXVII That night brought the first frost of the season worth counting . 
In the morning , when Theron came downstairs , his casual glance through the window caught a desolate picture of blackened dahlia stalks and shrivelled blooms . 
The gayety and color of the garden were gone , and in their place was shabby and dishevelled ruin . 
He flung the sash up and leaned out . 
The nipping autumn air was good to breathe . 
He looked about him , surveying the havoc the frost had wrought among the flowers , and smiled . 
At breakfast he smiled again a mirthless and calculated smile . 
I see that Brother Gorringe's flowers have come to grief over night , he remarked . 
Alice looked at him before she spoke , and saw on his face a confirmation of the hostile hint in his voice . 
She nodded in a constrained way , and said nothing . 
Or rather , I should say , Theron went on , with deliberate words , the late Brother Gorringe's flowers . 
How do you mean LATE asked his wife , swiftly . 
Oh , calm yourself ! replied the husband . 
He has only intimated to me his desire to sever his connection . 
I may add that he did so in a highly offensive manner . 
I am very sorry , said Alice , in a low tone , and with her eyes on her plate . 
I took it for granted you would be grieved at his backsliding , remarked Theron , making his phrases as pointed as he could . 
He was such a promising probationer , and you took such a keen interest in his spiritual awakening . 
But the frost has nipped his zeal along with the hundred or more dollars' worth of flowers by which he testified his faith . 
I find something interesting in their having been blasted simultaneously . 
Alice dropped all pretence of interest in her breakfast . 
With a flushed face and lips tightly compressed , she made a movement as if to rise from her chair . 
Then , changing her mind , she sat bolt upright and faced her husband . 
I think we had better have this out right now , she said , in a voice which Theron hardly recognized . 
You have been hinting round the subject long enough too long . 
There are some things nobody is obliged to put up with , and this is one of them . 
You will oblige me by saying out in so many words what it is you are driving at . 
He laid down his knife and fork , and gazed at his wife in frank surprise . 
The flash in her eyes and the lines of resolution about her mouth and chin for a moment daunted him . 
Then he observed by a flutter of the frill at her wrist that she was trembling . 
I am sure I have nothing to 'say out in so many words , as you put it , he replied , forcing his voice into cool , impassive tones . 
I merely commented upon a coincidence , that was all . 
If , for any reason under the sun , the subject chances to be unpleasant to you , I have no earthly desire to pursue it . 
But I insist upon having it pursued ! returned Alice . 
I've had just all I can stand of your insinuations and innuendoes , and it's high time we had some plain talk . 
Ever since the revival , you have been dropping sly , underhand hints about Mr. Gorringe and and me . 
Now I ask you what you mean by it . 
Yes , there was a shake in her voice , and he could see how her bosom heaved in a tremor of nervousness . 
It was easy for him to be very calm . 
It is you who introduce these astonishing suggestions , not I , he replied coldly . 
It is you who couple your name with his somewhat to my surprise , I admit but let me suggest that we drop the subject . 
You are excited just now , and you might say things that you would prefer to leave unsaid . 
It would surely be better for all concerned to say no more about it . 
Alice , staring across the table at him with knitted brows , emitted a sharp little snort of indignation . 
But why continue ? We are only angering each other . 
Never mind that , she replied , with more control over her speech . 
I guess things have come to a pass where a little anger won't do any harm . 
I have a right to insist on knowing what you mean by your insinuations . 
Why will you keep harping on the thing ? he asked wearily . 
I have displayed no curiosity . 
I don't ask for any explanations . 
I think I mentioned that the man had behaved insultingly to me but that doesn't matter . 
I don't bring it up as a grievance . 
I am very well able to take care of myself I have no wish to recur to the incident in any way . 
So far as I am concerned , the topic is dismissed . 
Listen to me ! broke in Alice , with eager gravity . 
She hesitated , as he looked up with a nod of attention , and reflected as well as she was able among her thoughts for a minute or two . 
This is what I want to say to you . 
Ever since we came to this hateful Octavius , you and I have been drifting apart or no , that doesn't express it simply rushing away from each other . 
It only began last spring , and now the space between us is so wide that we are worse than complete strangers . 
For strangers at least don't hate each other , and I've had a good many occasions lately to see that you positively do hate me What grotesque absurdity interposed Theron , impatiently . 
No , it isn't absurdity it's gospel truth , retorted Alice . 
And don't interrupt me there have been times , too , when I have had to ask myself if I wasn't getting almost to hate you in return . 
I tell you this frankly . 
Yes , you are undoubtedly frank , commented the husband , toying with his teaspoon . 
A hypercritical person might consider , almost too frank . 
Alice scanned his face closely while he spoke , and held her breath as if in expectant suspense . 
Her countenance clouded once more . 
You don't realize , Theron , she said gravely your voice when you speak to me , your look , your manner , they have all changed . 
You are like another man some man who never loved me , and doesn't even know me , much less like me . 
I want to know what the end of it is to be . 
Up to the time of your sickness last summer , until after the Soulsbys went away , I didn't let myself get downright discouraged . 
It seemed too monstrous for belief that you should go away out of my life like that . 
It didn't seem possible that God could allow such a thing . 
It came to me that I had been lax in my Christian life , especially in my position as a minister's wife , and that this was my punishment . 
I went to the altar , to intercede with Him , and to try to loose my burden at His feet . 
But nothing has come of it . 
I got no help from you . 
Really , Alice , broke in Theron , I explained over and over again to you how preoccupied I was with the book and affairs generally . 
I got no assistance from Heaven either , she went on , declining the diversion he offered . 
I don't want to talk impiously , but if there is a God , he has forgotten me , his poor heart broken hand maiden . 
You are talking impiously , Alice , observed her husband . 
And you are doing me cruel injustice , into the bargain . 
Of course , the married state is no more exempt from the universal law of growth , development , alteration , than any other human institution . 
On its spiritual side , of course , viewed either as a sacrament , or as Don't let us go into that , interposed Alice , abruptly . 
In fact , there is no good in talking any more at all . 
It is as if we didn't speak the same language . 
You don't understand what I say it makes no impression upon your mind . 
Quite to the contrary , he assured her I have been deeply interested and concerned in all you have said . 
A little gleam of softness stole over Alice's face . 
If you only gave me a little more credit for intelligence , she said , you would find that I am not such a blockhead as you think I am . 
Come , come ! he said , with a smiling show of impatience . 
You really mustn't impute things to me wholesale , like that . 
She was glad to answer the smile in kind . 
No but truly , she pleaded , you don't realize it , but you have grown into a way of treating me as if I had absolutely no mind at all . 
You have a very admirable mind , he responded , and took up his teaspoon again . 
She reached for his cup , and poured out hot coffee for him . 
An almost cheerful spirit had suddenly descended upon the breakfast table . 
And now let me say the thing I have been aching to say for months , she began in less burdened voice . 
Haven't things been discussed pretty fully already ? he asked . 
The doubtful , harassed expression clouded upon her face at his words , and she paused . 
No , she said resolutely , after an instant's reflection it is my duty to discuss this , too . 
It is a misunderstanding all round . 
He did it with the kindest and friendliest motives in the world ! protested Alice . 
The next I knew , here they were , with a book about mixing soils and planting , and so on . 
When I found out the truth I got it out of that boy , Harvey Semple he admitted it quite frankly said he was wrong to deceive me . 
This was in the fine first fervor of his term of probation , I suppose , put in Theron . 
He made no effort to dissemble the sneer in his voice . 
Well , answered Alice , with a touch of acerbity , I have told you now , and it is off my mind . 
Theron , as he finished her sentence for her , rose from the table . 
Dallying for a brief moment by his chair , there seemed the magnetic premonition in the air of some further and kindlier word . 
Then he turned and walked sedately into the next room , and closed the door behind him . 
The tendency to ruminative loitering , which those who saw him abroad always associated with his tall , spare figure , was not suggested today . 
He moved forward like a man with a purpose . 
All the forenoon in the seclusion of the sitting room , with a book opened before him , he had been thinking hard . 
It was not the talk with Alice that occupied his thoughts . 
That rose in his mind from time to time , only as a disagreeable blur , and he refused to dwell upon it . 
It was nothing to him , he said to himself , what Gorringe's motives in lying had been . 
As for Alice , he hardened his heart against her . 
Just now it was her mood to try and make up to him . 
She had had her chance to maintain a hold upon his interest and imagination , and had let it slip . 
These were the accidents of life , the inevitable harsh happenings in the great tragedy of Nature . 
They could not be helped , and there was nothing more to be said . 
He had bestowed much more attention upon what the priest had said the previous evening . 
He passed in review all the glowing tributes Father Forbes had paid to Celia . 
They warmed his senses as he recalled them , but they also , in a curious , indefinite way , caused him uneasiness . 
There had been a personal fervor about them which was something more than priestly . 
He remembered how the priest had turned pale and faltered when the question whether Celia would escape the general doom of her family came up . 
It was not a merely pastoral agitation that , he felt sure . 
A hundred obscure hints , doubts , stray little suspicions , crowded upward together in his thoughts . 
He could bear the uncertainty no longer . 
The meanest of Thurston's clerks would have shown a more adventurous spirit and a bolder nerve . 
If I do not act at once , with courage and resolution , everything will be lost . 
Already she must think me unworthy of the honor it was in her sweet will to bestow . 
Then he remembered that she was now always at home . 
Not another hour of foolish indecision ! he whispered to himself . 
I will put my destiny to the test . 
I will see her today ! A middle aged , plain faced servant answered his ring at the door bell of the Madden mansion . 
She was palpably Irish , and looked at him with a saddened preoccupation in her gray eyes , holding the door only a little ajar . 
Theron had got out one of his cards . 
I wish to make inquiry about young Mr. Madden Mr. Michael Madden , he said , holding the card forth tentatively . 
I have only just heard of his illness , and it has been a great grief to me . 
He is no better , answered the woman , briefly . 
Mr. Ware , he went on , and you may say that , if he is well enough , I should be glad to see him . 
The servant peered out at him with a suddenly altered expression , then shook her head . 
I don't think he would be wishing to see YOU , she replied . 
It was evident from her tone that she suspected the visitor's intentions . 
Theron smiled in spite of himself . 
I have not come as a clergyman , he explained , but as a friend of the family . 
If you will tell Miss Madden that I am here , it will do just as well . 
Yes , we won't bother him . 
If you will kindly hand my card to his sister . 
When the domestic turned at this and went in , Theron felt like throwing his hat in the air , there where he stood . 
The woman's churlish sectarian prejudices had played ideally into his hands . 
In no other imaginable way could he have asked for Celia so naturally . 
He wondered a little that a servant at such a grand house as this should leave callers standing on the doorstep . 
Still more he wondered what he should say to the lady of his dream when he came into her presence . 
Will you please to walk this way ? The woman had returned . 
She pushed aside this curtain , and Theron found himself in a sort of conservatory , full of the hot , vague light of sunshine falling through ground glass . 
The air was moist and close , and heavy with the smell of verdure and wet earth . 
A tall bank of palms , with ferns sprawling at their base , reared itself directly in front of him . 
The floor was of mosaic , and he saw now that there were rugs upon it , and that there were chairs and sofas , and other signs of habitation . 
It was , indeed , only half a greenhouse , for the lower part of it was in rosewood panels , with floral paintings on them , like a room . 
Moving to one side of the barrier of palms , he discovered , to his great surprise , the figure of Michael , sitting propped up with pillows in a huge easy chair . 
The sick man was looking at him with big , gravely intent eyes . 
His face did not show as much change as Theron had in fancy pictured . 
It had seemed almost as bony and cadaverous on the day of the picnic . 
The hands spread out on the chair arms were very white and thin , though , and the gaze in the blue eyes had a spectral quality which disturbed him . 
Michael raised his right hand , and Theron , stepping forward , took it limply in his for an instant . 
Then he laid it down again . 
The touch of people about to die had always been repugnant to him . 
He could feel on his own warm palm the very damp of the grave . 
I only heard from Father Forbes last evening of your your ill health , he said , somewhat hesitatingly . 
He seated himself on a bench beneath the palms , facing the invalid , but still holding his hat . 
I hope very sincerely that you will soon be all right again . 
My sister is lying down in her room , answered Michael . 
He had not once taken his sombre and embarrassing gaze from the other's face . 
The voice in which he uttered this uncalled for remark was thin in fibre , cold and impassive . 
It fell upon Theron's ears with a suggestion of hidden meaning . 
He looked uneasily into Michael's eyes , and then away again . 
They seemed to be looking straight through him , and there was no shirking the sensation that they saw and comprehended things with an unnatural prescience . 
I hope she is feeling better , Theron found himself saying . 
Father Forbes mentioned that she was a little under the weather . 
I dined with him last night . 
I am glad that you came , said Michael , after a little pause . 
His earnest , unblinking eyes seemed to supplement his tongue with speech of their own . 
I do be thinking a great deal about you . 
I have matters to speak of to you , now that you are here . 
Theron bowed his head gently , in token of grateful attention . 
He tried the experiment of looking away from Michael , but his glance went back again irresistibly , and fastened itself upon the sick man's gaze , and clung there . 
I am next door to a dead man , he went on , paying no heed to the other's deprecatory gesture . 
It is not years or months with me , but weeks . 
Then I go away to stand up for judgment on my sins , and if it is His merciful will , I shall see God . 
So I say my good byes now , and so you will let me speak plainly , and not think ill of what I say . 
You are much changed , Mr. Ware , since you came to Octavius , and it is not a change for the good . 
Theron lifted his brows in unaffected surprise , and put inquiry into his glance . 
I don't know if Protestants will be saved , in God's good time , or not , continued Michael . 
But I am sure about one thing . 
Those Protestants , and others too , mind you , who profess and preach good deeds , and themselves do bad deeds they will never be saved . 
They will have no chance at all to escape hell fire . 
I think we are all agreed upon that , Mr. Madden , said Theron , with surface suavity . 
Then I say to you , Mr. Ware , you are yourself in a bad path . 
Take the warning of a dying man , sir , and turn from it ! The impulse to smile tugged at Theron's facial muscles . 
This was really too droll . 
He looked up at the ceiling , the while he forced his countenance into a polite composure , then turned again to Michael , with some conciliatory commonplace ready for utterance . 
But he said nothing , and all suggestion of levity left his mind , under the searching inspection bent upon him by the young man's hollow eyes . 
I knew the man who was here before you that is , by sight and he was not a good man . 
But your face , when you came , pleased me . 
I liked to look at you . 
At my boyhood and young manhood , that thought took the joy out of me . 
But then later , as I grew up , the sick man went on , I learned that it was not altogether certain . 
Of course , how could we ? Did you ever discuss the question with your sister ? it occurred suddenly to Theron to interpose . 
He was conscious of some daring in doing so , and he fancied that Michael's drawn face clouded a little at his words . 
My sister is no theologian , he answered briefly . 
Women have no call to meddle with such matters . 
As I say , I liked you . 
It was your face , and what I thought it showed of the man underneath it , that helped settle my mind more than anything else . 
His very face is a pleasure and a help for those in suffering and trouble to look at . 
The very sight of it makes one believe in pure thoughts and merciful deeds . 
Evidently all this was by way of preparation for something unpleasant . 
That was only last spring , said Michael . 
His tired voice sank for a sentence or two into a meditative half whisper . 
And it was MY last spring of all . 
I shall not be growing weak any more , or drawing hard breaths , when the first warm weather comes . 
It will be one season to me hereafter , always the same . 
He lifted his voice with perceptible effort . 
I am talking too much . 
The rest I can say in a word . 
Only half a year has gone by , and you have another face on you entirely . 
I had noticed the small changes before , one by one . 
I saw the great change , all of a sudden , the day of the picnic . 
I see it a hundred times more now , as you sit there . 
If it seemed to me like the face of a saint before , it is more like the face of a bar keeper now ! This was quite too much . 
Theron rose , flushed to the temples , and scowled down at the helpless man in the chair . 
He got the shadow of a smile on to his countenance . 
I fear you HAVE tired yourself unduly , he said , in as non contentious a tone as he could manage . 
He even contrived a little deprecatory laugh . 
I am afraid your real quarrel is with the air of Octavius . 
It agrees with me so wonderfully I am getting as fat as a seal . 
But I do hope I am not paying for it by such a wholesale deterioration inside . 
If my own opinion could be of any value , I should assure you that I feel myself an infinitely better and broader and stronger man than I was when I came here . 
Michael shook his head dogmatically . 
That is the greatest pity of all , he said , with renewed earnestness . 
You are entirely deceived about yourself . 
You do not at all realize how you have altered your direction , or where you are going . 
It was a great misfortune for you , sir , that you did not keep among your own people . 
That poor half brother of mine , though the drink was in him when he said that same to you , never spoke a truer word . 
Keep among your own people , Mr. Ware ! When you go among others you know what I mean you have no proper understanding of what their sayings and doings really mean . 
You do not realize that they are held up by the power of the true Church , as a little child learning to walk is held up with a belt by its nurse . 
They can say and do things , and no harm at all come to them , which would mean destruction to you , because they have help , and you are walking alone . 
And so be said by me , Mr. Ware ! Go back to the way you were brought up in , and leave alone the people whose ways are different from yours . 
You are a married man , and you are the preacher of a religion , such as it is . 
And that is what I wanted to say to you . 
Theron took up his hat . 
I take in all kindness what you have felt it your duty to say to me , Mr. Madden , he said . 
I am not sure that I have altogether followed you , but I am very sure you mean it well . 
When a man lies by the site of his open grave , he does not be meaning ill to any human soul . 
Yes thanks quite so ! faltered Theron . 
He dallied for an instant with the temptation to seek some further explanation , but the sight of Michael's half closed eyes and worn out expression decided him against it . 
As he did so , Michael touched a bell on the table beside him . 
Theron drew a long breath in the hall , as the curtain fell behind him . 
It was an immense relief to escape from the oppressive humidity and heat of the flower room , and from that ridiculous bore of a Michael as well . 
The middle aged , grave faced servant , warned by the bell , stood waiting to conduct him to the door . 
I am sorry to have missed Miss Madden , he said to her . 
She must be quite worn out . 
Perhaps later in the day She will not be seeing anybody today , returned the woman . 
She is going to New York this evening , and she is taking some rest against the journey . 
Will she be away long ? he asked mechanically . 
The servant's answer , I have no idea , hardly penetrated his consciousness at all . 
He moved down the steps , and along the gravel to the street , in a maze of mental confusion . 
It was as if some drug had stupefied his faculties . 
He began to walk , and gradually saw that what he was thinking about was the fact of Celia's departure for New York that evening . 
He stared at this fact , at first in its nakedness , then clothed with reassuring suggestions that this was no doubt a trip she very often made . 
There was a blind sense of comfort in this idea , and he rested himself upon it . 
Yes , of course , she travelled a great deal . 
New York must be as familiar to her as Octavius was to him . 
Her going there now was quite a matter of course the most natural thing in the world . 
Then there burst suddenly uppermost in his mind the other fact that Father Forbes was also going to New York that evening . 
The two things spindled upward , side by side , yet separately , in his mental vision then they twisted and twined themselves together . 
He followed their convolutions miserably , walking as if his eyes were shut . 
In slow fashion matters defined and arranged themselves before him . 
The process of tracing their sequence was all torture , but there was no possibility , no notion , of shirking any detail of the pain . 
The priest had spoken of his efforts to persuade Celia to go away for a few days , for rest and change of air and scene . 
He must have known only too well that she was going , but of that he had been careful to drop no hint . 
The possibility of accident was too slight to be worth considering . 
Theron walked until dusk began to close in upon the autumn day . 
It grew colder , as he turned his face homeward . 
He wondered if it would freeze again over night , and then remembered the shrivelled flowers in his wife's garden . 
Or no , the picture he stared at was not on canvas , but on the glossy , varnished panel of a luxurious sleeping car . 
Very much to my surprise , he found himself saying to Alice , watching her nervously as she laid the supper table , I find I must go to Albany tonight . 
That is , it isn't absolutely necessary , for that matter , but I think it may easily turn out to be greatly to my advantage to go . 
Something has arisen I can't speak about it as yet but the sooner I see the Bishop about it the better . 
Tomorrow it might be too late and , besides , I can be home the sooner again . 
Alice's face showed surprise , but no trace of suspicion . 
I do hope I shan't have to go on tomorrow to New York but these Bishops of ours are such gad abouts one never knows where to catch them . 
As like as not Sanderson may be down in New York , on Book Concern business or something and if he is , I shall have to chase him up . 
But , after all , perhaps the trip will do me good the change of air and scene , you know . 
I'm sure I hope so , said Alice , honestly enough . 
If you do go on to New York , I suppose you'll go by the river boat . 
Everybody talks so much of that beautiful sail down the Hudson . 
That's an idea ! exclaimed Theron , welcoming it with enthusiasm . 
It hadn't occurred to me . 
If I do have to go , and it is as lovely as they make out , the next time I promise I won't go without you , my girl . 
I HAVE been rather out of sorts lately , he continued . 
When I come back , I daresay I shall be feeling better , more like my old self . 
Then I'm going to try , Alice , to be nicer to you than I have been of late . 
I'm afraid there was only too much truth in what you said this morning . 
Never mind what I said this morning or any other time , broke in Alice , softly . 
When was it , he wondered , that he had last kissed her ? It seemed years , ages , ago . 
He felt like whistling as his feet sounded firmly on the plank sidewalk beyond the gate . 
It seemed as if he had never been in such capital good spirits before in his life . 
After a moment of sleep burdened confusion , he sat up , and the man took the other half of the seat and opened a newspaper , still damp from the press . 
It was morning , then . 
Theron rubbed a clear space upon the clouded window with his thumb , and looked out . 
There was nothing to be seen but a broad stretch of tracks , and beyond this the shadowed outlines of wagons and machinery in a yard , with a background of factory buildings . 
The atmosphere in the car was vile beyond belief . 
He thought of opening the window , but feared that the peremptory looking man with the paper , who had wakened him and made him sit up , might object . 
They were the only people in the car who were sitting up . 
Here and there an upturned face gave a livid patch of surface for the mingled play of the gray dawn and the yellow lamp light . 
A ceaseless noise of snoring was in the air . 
He got up and walked to the tank of ice water at the end of the aisle , and took a drink from the most inaccessible portion of the common tin cup's rim . 
The happy idea of going out on the platform struck him , and he acted upon it . 
The morning air was deliciously cool and fresh by contrast , and he filled his lungs with it again and again . 
Standing here , he could discern beyond the buildings to the right the faint purplish outlines of great rounded hills . 
Some workmen , one of them bearing a torch , were crouching along under the side of the train , pounding upon the resonant wheels with small hammers . 
He recalled having heard the same sound in the watches of the night , during a prolonged halt . 
Some one had said it was Albany . 
He smiled in spite of himself at the thought that Bishop Sanderson would never know about the visit he had missed . 
Swinging himself to the ground , he bent sidewise and looked forward down the long train . 
There were five , six , perhaps more , sleeping cars on in front . 
He was wide awake now , and quite at his ease . 
He took his seat , and diverted himself by winking gravely at a little child facing him on the next seat but one . 
There were four other children in the family party , encamped about the tired and still sleeping mother whose back was turned to Theron . 
The face of the woman , her manner and slatternly aspect , and the general effect of her belongings , bespoke squalid ignorance and poverty . 
Watching her , Theron had felt curiously interested in the performance . 
In one sense , it was scarcely more human than the spectacle of a cat licking her kittens , or a cow giving suck to her calf . 
Her self possession , her capacity for self entertainment , the care she took not to arouse the others , all impressed him very much . 
He felt in his pocket for a small coin , and , reaching forward , offered it to her . 
She took it calmly , bestowed a tranquil gaze upon him for a moment , and went back to the buttons . 
Her indifference produced an unpleasant sensation upon him somehow , and he rubbed the steaming window clear again , and stared out of it . 
The wide river lay before him , flanked by a precipitous wall of cliffs which he knew instantly must be the Palisades . 
There was an advertisement painted on them which he tried in vain to read . 
He was surprised to find they interested him so slightly . 
He had heard all his life of the Hudson , and especially of it just at this point . 
The reality seemed to him almost commonplace . 
His failure to be thrilled depressed him for the moment . 
I suppose those ARE the Palisades ? he asked his neighbor . 
The man glanced up from his paper , nodded , and made as if to resume his reading . 
But his eye had caught something in the prospect through the window which arrested his attention . 
By George ! he exclaimed , and lifted himself to get a clearer view . 
What is it ? asked Theron , peering forth as well . 
Nothing only Barclay Wendover's yacht is still there . 
There's been a hitch of some sort . 
They were to have left yesterday . 
Is that it that long black thing ? queried Theron . 
That can't be a yacht , can it ? What do you think it is ? answered the other . 
They were looking at a slim , narrow hull , lying at anchor , silent and motionless on the drab expanse of water . 
If that ain't a yacht , they haven't begun building any yet . 
They're taking her over to the Mediterranean for a cruise , you know around India and Japan for the winter , and home by the South Sea islands . 
Friend o' mine's in the party . 
Wouldn't mind the trip myself . 
Well , he said , there's room for two sets of quadrilles in the chief saloon , if the rest keep their legs well up on the sofas . 
But there's only ten or a dozen in the party this time . 
More than that rather get in one another's way , especially with so many ladies on board . 
Theron asked no more questions , but bent his head to see the last of this wonderful craft . 
The sight of it , and what he had heard about it , suddenly gave point and focus to his thoughts . 
He knew at last what it was that had lurked , formless and undesignated , these many days in the background of his dreams . 
The picture rose in his mind now of Celia as the mistress of a yacht . 
He dwelt upon these new imaginings with the fervent longing of an inland born boy . 
Every vague yearning he had ever felt toward salt water stirred again in his blood at the thought of the sea with Celia . 
Why not ? She had never visited any foreign land . 
Sometime , she had said , sometime , no doubt I will . 
He could hear again the wistful , musing tone of her voice . 
The thought had fascinations for her , it was clear . 
Even the men in sailors' clothes , who would be pulling at ropes , or climbing up tarred ladders , kept themselves considerately outside the picture . 
I was trying to point out the Jumel house to you where Aaron Burr lived , you know . 
Theron roused himself from his day dream , and nodded with a confused smile at his neighbor . 
Thanks , he faltered I didn't hear you . 
The train makes such a noise , and I must have been dozing . 
The night aspect , as of a tramps' lodging house , had quite disappeared from the car . 
Everybody was sitting up and the more impatient were beginning to collect their bundles and hand bags from the racks and floor . 
An expressman came through , jangling a huge bunch of brass checks on leathern thongs over his arm , and held parley with passengers along the aisle . 
Yes , this is New York , said the man , folding up his paper , and springing to his feet . 
Then he himself made his way out , drifting with a sense of helplessness in their resolute wake . 
There rose in his mind the sudden conviction that he would be too late . 
All the passengers in the forward sleepers would be gone before he could get there . 
Yet even this terror gave him no new power to get ahead of anybody else in the tightly packed throng . 
He drew aside from the main current here , and began searching the platform , far and near , for those he had travelled so far to find . 
Theron lingered on in puzzled hesitation , and looked about him . 
No they's Harlem people , I guess jes' catchin' the Elevated that's all , sir , he answered obligingly . 
At the moment some passengers emerged slowly from one of the sleeping cars , and came loitering toward him . 
Why , are there people still in these cars ? he asked eagerly . 
Haven't they all gone ? Some has some ain't , the porter replied . 
They most generally take their time about it . 
They ain't no hurry , so long's they get out 'fore we're drawn round to the drill yard . 
There was still hope , then . 
Theron took up his bag and walked forward , intent upon finding some place from which he could watch unobserved the belated stragglers issuing from the sleeping cars . 
He started back all at once , confronted by a semi circle of violent men with whips and badges , who stunned his hearing by a sudden vociferous outburst of shouts and yells . 
There was a big policeman sauntering near by , and Theron got the idea that it was his presence alone which protected him from open violence at the hands of these savage hackmen . 
He tightened his clutch on his valise , and , turning his back on them and their uproar , tried to brave it out and stand where he was . 
It was slow and dispiriting work . 
A dozen times his heart failed him , and he said to himself mournfully that he had had his journey for nothing . 
Then some new figure would appear , alighting from the steps of a sleeper , and hope revived in his breast . 
At last , when over half an hour of expectancy had been marked off by the big clock overhead , his suspense came to an end . 
He saw Father Forbes' erect and substantial form , standing on the car platform nearest of all , balancing himself with his white hands on the rails , waiting for something . 
Then after a little he came down , followed by a black porter , whose arms were burdened by numerous bags and parcels . 
The two stood a minute or so more in hesitation at the side of the steps . 
Then Celia descended , and the three advanced . 
The importance of not being discovered was uppermost in Theron's mind , now that he saw them actually coming toward him . 
He had avoided this the previous evening , in the Octavius depot , with some skill , he flattered himself . 
It gave him a pleasurable sense of being a man of affairs , almost a detective , to be confronted by the necessity now of baffling observation once again . 
He was still rather without plans for keeping them in view , once they left the station . 
It turned out , however , that there was no difficulty at all . 
Father Forbes and Celia seemed to have no use for the hackmen , but moved straight forward toward the street , through the doorway next to that in which Theron cowered . 
He stole round , and followed them at a safe distance , making Celia's hat , and the portmanteau perched on the shoulder of the porter behind her , his guides . 
Celia and the negro lad went down a side street , and entered the door of a vast , tall red brick building which occupied the whole block . 
Fortune had indeed favored him . 
He not only knew where they were , but he had been himself a witness to the furtive way in which they entered the house by different doors . 
Nothing in his own limited experience of hotels helped him to comprehend the notion of a separate entrance for ladies and their luggage . 
He did not feel quite sure about the significance of what he had observed , in his own mind . 
But it was apparent to him that there was something underhanded about it . 
After lingering awhile on the steps of the hotel , and satisfying himself by peeps through the glass doors that the coast was clear , he ventured inside . 
The great corridor contained many people , coming , going , or standing about , but none of them paid any attention to him . 
At last he made up his mind , and beckoned a colored boy to him from a group gathered in the shadows of the big central staircase . 
With this in his pocket he felt himself more at his ease , and turned to walk away . 
What is it you want ? Here's your bag , if you're looking for that , this man said to him . 
No , thanks it's nothing , replied Theron , straightening himself again . 
He had had a narrow escape . 
Fortunately he had seen them in time , and by throwing himself half into the cloak room , had rendered recognition impossible . 
Returning to the corridor , he made bold now to march up to the desk and examine the register . 
The priest's name was not there . 
He found only the brief entry , Miss Madden , Octavius , written , not by her , but by Father Forbes . 
On the line were two numbers in pencil , with an and between them . 
An indirect question to one of the clerks helped him to an explanation of this . 
When there were two numbers , it meant that the guest in question had a parlor as well as a bedroom . 
Here he drew a long , satisfied breath , and turned away . 
The first half of his quest stood completed and that much more fully and easily than he had dared to hope . 
He could not but feel a certain new respect for himself as a man of resource and energy . 
He had demonstrated that people could not fool with him with impunity . 
It remained to decide what he would do with his discovery , now that it had been so satisfactorily made . 
As yet , he had given this hardly a thought . 
Even now , it did not thrust itself forward as a thing demanding instant attention . 
It was much more important , first of all , to get a good breakfast . 
He had learned that there was another and less formal eating place , downstairs in the basement by the bar , with an entrance from the street . 
He walked down by the inner stairway instead , feeling himself already at home in the big hotel . 
He ordered an ample breakfast , and came out while it was being served to wash and have his boots blacked , and he gave the man a quarter of a dollar . 
In the hurry of leaving he had brought with him the church collections for the past two weeks . 
It occurred to him that he must keep a strict account of his expenditure . 
Meanwhile he gave ten cents to another man in a silk sleeved cardigan jacket , who had merely stood by and looked at him while his boots were being polished . 
There was a sense of metropolitan affluence in the very atmosphere . 
The little table in the adjoining room , on which Theron found his meal in waiting for him , seemed a vision of delicate napery and refined appointments in his eyes . 
He was wolfishly hungry , and the dishes he looked upon gave him back assurances by sight and smell that he was very happy as well . 
The servant in attendance had an extremely white apron and a kindly black face . 
He bowed when Theron looked at him , with the air of a lifelong admirer and humble friend . 
I suppose you'll have claret with your breakfast , sir ? he remarked , as if it were a matter of course . 
Why , certainly , answered Theron , stretching his legs contentedly under the table , and tucking the corner of his napkin in his neckband . 
Certainly , my good man . 
This relieved him of a certain sense of responsibility , and he retired to a corner sofa and sat down . 
The detective side of him being off duty , so to speak , there was leisure at last for reflection upon the other aspects of his mission . 
Yes it was high time for him to consider what he should do next . 
It was easier to recognize this fact , however , than to act upon it . 
His mind was full of tricksy devices for eluding this task of serious thought which he sought to impose upon it . 
It seemed so much pleasanter not to think at all but just to drift . 
He had had the most wonderful breakfast of his life , but even in the consciousness of comfortable repletion which pervaded his being , there was an obstinate sense of something lacking . 
No doubt a good cigar was the thing needed to round out the perfection of such a breakfast . 
He half rose once , fired by a sudden resolution to go over and get one . 
But of course that was nonsense it would only make him sick . 
He sat down , and determinedly set himself to thinking . 
The effort finally brought fruit and of a kind which gave him a very unhappy quarter of an hour . 
The lover part of him was uppermost now , insistently exposing all its raw surfaces to the stings and scalds of jealousy . 
Up to this moment , his brain had always evaded the direct question of how he and the priest relatively stood in Celia's estimation . 
It forced itself remorselessly upon him now and his thoughts , so far from shirking the subject , seemed to rise up to meet it . 
It was extremely unpleasant , all this . 
But then a calmer view asserted itself . 
Why go out of his way to invent anguish for himself ? The relations between Celia and the priest , whatever they might be , were certainly of old standing . 
They had begun before his time . 
His own romance was a more recent affair , and must take its place , of course , subject to existing conditions . 
It was all right for him to come to New York , and satisfy his legitimate curiosity as to the exact character and scope of these conditions . 
But it was foolish to pretend to be amazed or dismayed at the discovery of their existence . 
They were a part of the situation which he , with his eyes wide open , had accepted . 
It was his function to triumph over them , to supplant them , to rear the edifice of his own victorious passion upon their ruins . 
It was to this that Celia's kiss had invited him . 
It was for this that he had come to New York . 
To let his purpose be hampered or thwarted now by childish doubts and jealousies would be ridiculous . 
He rose , and holding himself very erect , walked with measured deliberation across the corridor and up the broad staircase . 
There was an elevator near at hand , he had noticed , but he preferred the stairs . 
One or two of the colored boys clustered about the foot of the stairs looked at him , and he had a moment of dreadful apprehension lest they should stop his progress . 
Nothing was said , and he went on . 
The numbers on the first floor were not what he wanted , and after some wandering about he ascended to the next , and then to the third . 
Every now and then he encountered attendants , but intuitively he bore himself with an air of knowing what he was about which protected him from inquiry . 
Finally he came upon the hall way he sought . 
Passing along , he found the doors bearing the numbers he had memorized so well . 
They were quite close together , and there was nothing to help him guess which belonged to the parlor . 
He hesitated , gazing wistfully from one to the other . 
In the instant of indecision , even while his alert ear caught the sound of feet coming along toward the passage in which he stood , a thought came to quicken his resolve . 
It became apparent to him that his discovery gave him a certain new measure of freedom with Celia , a sort of right to take things more for granted than heretofore . 
He chose a door at random , and rapped distinctly on the panel . 
Come ! The voice he knew for Celia's . 
The single word , however , recalled the usage of Father Forbes , which he had noted more than once at the pastorate , when Maggie had knocked . 
He straightened his shoulders , took his hat off , and pushed open the door . 
It WAS the parlor a room of sofas , pianos , big easy chairs , and luxurious bric a brac . 
A tall woman was walking up and down in it , with bowed head . 
She turned , and moved a step or two in his direction before she mechanically lifted her eyes and saw who was standing in her doorway . 
She stopped short , and regarded him . 
Her face was in the shadow , and he could make out nothing of its expression , save that there was a general effect of gravity about it . 
I cannot receive you , she said . 
You have no business to come like this without sending up your card . 
The notion of taking in earnest her inhospitable words did not at all occur to him . 
He could see now that her face had vexed and saddened lines upon it , and the sharpness of her tone remained in his ears . 
But he smiled again gently , to reassure her . 
I ought to have sent up my name , I know , he said , but I couldn't bear to wait . 
I just saw your name on the register and you WILL forgive me , won't you ? I ran to you at once . 
I know you won't have the heart to send me away ! She stood where she had halted , her arms behind her , looking him fixedly in the face . 
He had made a movement to advance , and offer his hand in greeting , but her posture checked the impulse . 
His courage began to falter under her inspection . 
Must I really go down again ? he pleaded . 
It's a crushing penalty to suffer for such little indiscretion . 
I was so excited to find you were here I never stopped to think . 
Don't send me away please don't ! Celia raised her head . 
Well , shut the door , then , she said , since you are so anxious to stay . 
You would have done much better , though , very much better indeed , to have taken the hint and gone away . 
Will you shake hands with me , Celia ? he asked softly , as he came near her . 
Sit there , please ! she made answer , indicating a chair in the middle of the room . 
He obeyed her , but to his surprise , instead of seating herself as well , she began walking up and down the length of the floor again . 
After a turn or two she stopped in front of him , and looked him full in the eye . 
The light from the windows was on her countenance now , and its revelations vaguely troubled him . 
It was a Celia he had never seen before who confronted him . 
I am much occupied by other matters , she said , speaking with cold impassivity , but still I find myself curious to know just what limits you set to your dishonesty . 
Theron stared up at her . 
His lips quivered , but no speech came to them . 
If this was all merely fond playfulness , it was being carried to a heart aching point . 
I saw you hiding about in the depot at home last evening , she went on . 
You come up here , pretending to have discovered me by accident , but I saw you following me from the Grand Central this morning . 
Yes , I did both these things , said Theron , boldly . 
A fine bravery tingled in his veins all at once . 
He looked into her face and found the spirit to disregard its frowning aspect . 
Yes , I did them , he repeated defiantly . 
That is not the hundredth part , or the thousandth part , of what I would do for your sake . 
I have got way beyond caring for any consequences . 
That is where you have made your mistake . 
Theron laid aside his hat . 
Women were curious creatures , he reflected . 
Some were susceptible to one line of treatment , some to another . 
His own reading of Celia had always been that she liked opposition , of a smart , rattling , almost cheeky , sort . 
One got on best with her by saying bright things . 
He searched his brain now for some clever quip that would strike sparks from the adamantine mood which for the moment it was her whim to assume . 
To cover the process , he smiled a little . 
He rose to his feet . 
Have you forgotten our talk in the woods ? he murmured with a wooing note . 
Have you forgotten the kiss ? She shook her head calmly . 
Then why play with me so cruelly now ? he went on , in a voice of tender deprecation . 
I know you don't mean it , but all the same it bruises my heart a little . 
So be kinder to me , Celia ! I was kinder , as you call it , when you came in , she replied . 
I told you to go away . 
That was pure kindness more kindness than you deserved . 
Theron looked at his hat , where it stood on the carpet by his feet . 
He felt tears coming into his eyes . 
You tell me that you remember , he said , in depressed tones , and yet you treat me like this ! Perhaps I am wrong . 
No doubt it is my own fault . 
I suppose I ought not to have come down here at all . 
Celia nodded her head in assent to this view . 
But I swear that I was helpless in the matter , he burst forth . 
What was the other thing that you were 'knowing' ? Knowing he took up the word hesitatingly knowing that life would be insupportable to me if I could not be near you . 
She curled her lip at him . 
You skated over the thin spot very well , she commented . 
It was on the tip of your tongue to mention the fact that Father Forbes came with me . 
Oh , I can read you through and through , Mr. Ware . 
In a misty way Theron felt things slipping from his grasp . 
The rising moisture blurred his eyes as their gaze clung to Celia . 
Then if you do read me , he protested , you must know how utterly my heart and brain are filled with you . 
No other man in all the world can yield himself so absolutely to the woman he worships as I can . 
You have taken possession of me so wholly , I am not in the least master of myself any more . 
I don't know what I say or what I do . 
I am not worthy of you , I know . 
No man alive could be that . 
But no one else will idolize and reverence you as I do . 
The Lord do so to me , and more also , if aught but death part thee and me ! Celia shrugged her shoulders , and moved a few steps away from him . 
Something like despair seized upon him . 
Surely , he urged with passion , surely I have a right to remind you of the kiss ! She turned . 
The kiss , she said meditatively . 
Yes , you have a right to remind me of it . 
Oh , yes , an undoubted right . 
You have another right too the right to have the kiss explained to you . 
It was of the good bye order . 
It signified that we weren't to meet again , and that just for one little moment I permitted myself to be sorry for you . 
He held himself erect under the incredible words , and gazed blankly at her . 
The magnitude of what he confronted bewildered him his mind was incapable of taking it in . 
You mean he started to say , and then stopped , helplessly staring into her face , with a dropped jaw . 
It was too much to try to think what she meant . 
A little side thought sprouted in the confusion of his brain . 
It grew until it spread a bitter smile over his pale face . 
I know so little about kisses , he said I am such a greenhorn at that sort of thing . 
You should have had pity on my inexperience , and told me just what brand of kiss it was I was getting . 
Probably I ought to have been able to distinguish , but you see I was brought up in the country on a farm . 
They don't have kisses in assorted varieties there . 
She bowed her head slightly . 
Yes , you are entitled to say that , she assented . 
I was to blame , and it is quite fair that you should tell me so . 
You spoke of your inexperience , your innocence . 
That was why I kissed you in saying good bye . 
It was in memory of that innocence of yours , to which you yourself had been busy saying good bye ever since I first saw you . 
The idea seemed to me to mean something at the moment . 
I see now that it was too subtle . 
I do not usually err on that side . 
Theron kept his hold upon her gaze , as if it afforded him bodily support . 
He felt that he ought to stoop and take up his hat , but he dared not look away from her . 
Do you not err now , on the side of cruelty ? he asked her piteously . 
It seemed for the instant as if she were wavering , and he swiftly thrust forth other pleas . 
I admit that I did wrong to follow you to New York . 
But it was an offence committed in entire good faith . 
Think of it , Celia ! I have never seen you since that day that day in the woods . 
I have waited and waited with no sign from you , no chance of seeing you at all . 
Think what that meant to me ! Everything in the world had been altered for me , torn up by the roots . 
I was a new being , plunged into a new existence . 
The kiss had done that . 
The suspense was killing me , Celia ! That is why , when I learned that you were coming here , I threw everything to the winds and followed you . 
You blame me for it , and I bow my head and accept the blame . 
She seated herself in front of him as he sank into his chair again . 
I don't want to give you unnecessary pain , but you have insisted on forcing yourself into a position where there isn't anything else but pain . 
I warned you to go away , but you wouldn't . 
No matter how gently I may try to explain things to you , you are bound to get nothing but suffering out of the explanation . 
It is all in a single word , Mr. Ware , she proceeded , in low tones . 
I speak for others as well as myself , mind you we find that you are a bore . 
Theron's stiffened countenance remained immovable . 
He continued to stare unblinkingly up into her eyes . 
We were disposed to like you very much when we first knew you , Celia went on . 
You impressed us as an innocent , simple , genuine young character , full of mother's milk . 
It was like the smell of early spring in the country to come in contact with you . 
Your honesty of nature , your sincerity in that absurd religion of yours , your general NAIVETE of mental and spiritual get up , all pleased us a great deal . 
We thought you were going to be a real acquisition . 
Just a moment whom do you mean by 'we' ? He asked the question calmly enough , but in a voice with an effect of distance in it . 
It may not be necessary to enter into that , she replied . 
But then it became apparent , little by little , that we had misjudged you . 
We liked you , as I have said , because you were unsophisticated and delightfully fresh and natural . 
Somehow we took it for granted you would stay so . 
Rut that is just what you didn't do just what you hadn't the sense to try to do . 
Instead , we found you inflating yourself with all sorts of egotisms and vanities . 
We found you presuming upon the friendships which had been mistakenly extended to you . 
Do you want instances ? You went to Dr . 
Ledsmar's house that very day after I had been with you to get a piano at Thurston's , and tried to inveigle him into talking scandal about me . 
You came to me with tales about him . 
You went to Father Forbes , and sought to get him to gossip about us both . 
Neither of those men will ever ask you inside his house again . 
But that is only one part of it . 
Your whole mind became an unpleasant thing to contemplate . 
You talked to us slightingly about your wife . 
These are merely random incidents . 
They are just samples , picked hap hazard , of the things in you which have been opening our eyes , little by little , to our mistake . 
I can understand that all the while you really fancied that you were expanding , growing , in all directions . 
What you took to be improvement was degeneration . 
When you thought that you were impressing us most by your smart sayings and doings , you were reminding us most of the fable about the donkey trying to play lap dog . 
And it wasn't even an honest , straightforward donkey at that ! She uttered these last words sorrowfully , her hands clasped in her lap , and her eyes sinking to the floor . 
Then Theron reached a groping hand out for his hat , and , rising , walked with a lifeless , automatic step to the door . 
He had it half open , when the impossibility of leaving in this way towered suddenly in his path and overwhelmed him . 
He slammed the door to , and turned as if he had been whirled round by some mighty wind . 
He came toward her , with something almost menacing in the vigor of his movements , and in the wild look upon his white , set face . 
The horrible notion of killing her , there where she sat , spread over the chaos of his mind with an effect of unearthly light red and abnormally evil . 
It was like that first devilish radiance ushering in Creation , of which the first fruit was Cain . 
Why should he not kill her ? In all ages , women had been slain for less . 
Yes and men had been hanged . 
Something rose and stuck in his dry throat and as he swallowed it down , the sinister flare of murderous fascination died suddenly away into darkness . 
The world was all black again plunged in the Egyptian night which lay upon the face of the deep while the earth was yet without form and void . 
He was alone on it alone among awful , planetary solitudes which crushed him . 
The sight of Celia , sitting motionless only a pace in front of him , was plain enough to his eyes . 
She was really a star , many millions of miles away . 
These things were hard to understand but they were true , none the less . 
People seemed to be about him , but in fact he was alone . 
He recalled that even the little child in the car , playing with those two buttons on a string , would have nothing to do with him . 
Take his money , yes take all he would give her but not smile at him , not come within reach of him ! Men closed the doors of their houses against him . 
The universe held him at arm's length as a nuisance . 
He was standing with one knee upon a sofa . 
He sobbed with the abandonment of one who , in the veritable presence of death , lets go all sense of relation to life . 
Presently some one was touching him on the shoulder an incisive , pointed touch and he checked himself , and lifted his face . 
You will have to get up , and present some sort of an appearance , and go away at once , Celia said to him in low , rapid tones . 
Some gentlemen are at the door , whom I have been waiting for . 
As he stupidly sat up and tried to collect his faculties , Celia had opened the door and admitted two visitors . 
The three spoke for a moment together . 
Then the priest's wandering eye suddenly lighted upon the figure on the sofa . 
He stared , knitted his brows , and then lifted them in inquiry as he turned to Celia . 
Poor man ! she said readily , in tones loud enough to reach Theron . 
It is our neighbor , Father , the Rev . 
He hit upon my name in the register quite unexpectedly , and I had him come up . 
He is in sore distress a great and sudden bereavement . 
Won't you speak to him in the hall a few words , Father ? It would please him . 
The words had drawn Theron to his feet , as by some mechanical process . 
He took up his hat and moved dumbly to the door . 
It seemed to him that Celia intended offering to shake hands but he went past her with only some confused exchange of glances and a murmured word or two . 
The tall stranger , who drew aside to let him pass , had acted as if he expected to be introduced . 
Theron , emerging into the hall , leaned against the wall and looked dreamily at the priest , who had stepped out with him . 
I am very sorry to learn that you are in trouble , Mr. Ware , Father Forbes said , gently enough , but in hurried tones . 
Miss Madden is also in trouble . 
I mentioned to you that her brother had got into a serious scrape . 
I have brought my old friend , General Brady , to consult with her about the matter . 
He knows all the parties concerned , and he can set things right if anybody can . 
It's a mistake about me I 'm not in any trouble at all , said Theron . 
I just dropped in to make a friendly call . 
The priest glanced sharply at him , noting with a swift , informed scrutiny how he sprawled against the wall , and what vacuity his eyes and loosened lips expressed . 
Then you have a talent for the inopportune amounting to positive genius , said Father Forbes , with a stormy smile . 
Left alone , Theron started to make his way downstairs . 
He found his legs wavering under him and making zigzag movements of their own in a bewildering fashion . 
He referred this at first , in an outburst of fresh despair , to the effects of his great grief . 
Then , as he held tight to the banister and governed his descent step by step , it occurred to him that it must be the wine he had had for breakfast . 
Upon examination , he was not so unhappy , after all . 
CHAPTER XXXI At the second peal of the door bell , Brother Soulsby sat up in bed . 
It was still pitch dark , and the memory of the first ringing fluttered musically in his awakening consciousness as a part of some dream he had been having . 
Who the deuce can that be ? he mused aloud , in querulous resentment at the interruption . 
Put your head out of the window , and ask , suggested his wife , drowsily . 
The bell pull scraped violently in its socket , and a third outburst of shrill reverberations clamored through the silent house . 
Whatever you do , I'd do it before he yanked the whole thing to pieces , added the wife , with more decision . 
Brother Soulsby was wide awake now . 
He sprang to the floor , and , groping about in the obscurity , began drawing on some of his clothes . 
Nearly a quarter of an hour passed before he returned . 
Sister Soulsby , lying in sleepy quiescence , heard vague sounds of voices at the front door , and did not feel interested enough to lift her head and listen . 
A noise of footsteps on the sidewalk followed , first receding from the door , then turning toward it , this second time marking the presence of more than one person . 
There seemed in this the implication of a guest , and she shook off the dozing impulses which enveloped her faculties , and waited to hear more . 
There came up , after further muttering of male voices , the undeniable chink of coins striking against one another . 
Somebody had come , then . 
Their spare room was down there , directly underneath , but curiously enough no one seemed to enter it . 
The faint murmur of conversation which from time to time reached her came from the parlor instead . 
At last she heard her husband's soft tread coming up the staircase , and still there had been no hint of employing the guest chamber . 
What could he be about ? she wondered . 
He advanced to the bedside , shading the glare from her blinking eyes with his palm , and grinned . 
A thousand guesses , old lady , he said , with a dry chuckle , and you wouldn't have a ghost of a chance . 
You might guess till Hades froze over seven feet thick , and still you wouldn't hit it . 
She sat up in turn . 
Good gracious , man , she began , you don't mean Here the cheerful gleam in his small eyes reassured her , and she sighed relief , then smiled confusedly . 
I half thought , just for the minute , she explained , it might be some bounder who'd come East to try and blackmail me . 
But no , who is it and what on earth have you done with him ? Brother Soulsby cackled in merriment . 
It's Brother Ware of Octavius , out on a little bat , all by himself . 
He says he's been on the loose only two days but it looks more like a fortnight . 
OUR Brother Ware ? she regarded him with open eyed surprise . 
Well , yes , I suppose he's OUR Brother Ware some , returned Soulsby , genially . 
He seems to think so , anyway . 
But tell me about it ! she urged eagerly . 
He seated himself on the side of the bed , facing her , and still considerately shielding her from the light of the lamp he held . 
But don't think I suggested any explanations . 
I've been a mother myself . 
He's merely filled himself up to the neck with rum , in the simple , ordinary , good old fashioned way . 
What is there to explain about that ? She looked meditatively at him for a time , shaking her head . 
No , Soulsby , she said gravely , at last . 
This isn't any laughing matter . 
You may be sure something bad has happened , to set him off like that . 
I'm going to get up and dress right now . 
What time is it ? Now don't you do anything of the sort , he urged persuasively . 
It isn't five o'clock it'll be dark for nearly an hour yet . 
Just you turn over , and have another nap . 
I put him on the sofa , with the buffalo robe round him . 
You'll find him there , safe and sound , when it's time for white folks to get up . 
You know how it breaks you up all day , not to get your full sleep . 
I don't care if it makes me look as old as the everlasting hills , she said . 
Can't you understand , Soulsby ? The thing worries me gets on my nerves . 
I couldn't close an eye , if I tried . 
I took a great fancy to that young man . 
I told you so at the time . 
Soulsby nodded , and turned down the wick of his lamp a trifle . 
Yes , I know you did , he remarked in placidly non contentious tones . 
I can't say I saw much in him myself , but I daresay you're right . 
There followed a moment's silence , during which he experimented in turning the wick up again . 
But , anyway , he went on , there isn't anything you can do . 
He'll sleep it off , and the longer he's left alone the better . 
It isn't as if we had a hired girl , who'd come down and find him there , and give the whole thing away . 
He's fixed up there perfectly comfortable and when he's had his sleep out , and wakes up on his own account , he'll be feeling a heap better . 
The argument might have carried conviction , but on the instant the sound of footsteps came to them from the room below . 
The subdued noise rose regularly , as of one pacing to and fro . 
No , Soulsby , YOU come back to bed , and get YOUR sleep out . 
It's no good talking I'm going . 
The dim , cold gray of twilight was sifting furtively through the lace curtains of the front windows when Mrs. Soulsby , lamp in hand , entered the parlor . 
She confronted a figure she would have hardly recognized . 
The man seemed to have been submerged in a bath of disgrace . 
From the crown of his head to the soles of his feet , everything about him was altered , distorted , smeared with an intangible effect of shame . 
In the vague gloom of the middle distance , between lamp and window , she noticed that his shoulders were crouched , like those of some shambling tramp . 
The frowsy shadows of a stubble beard lay on his jaw and throat . 
His clothes were crumpled and hung awry his boots were stained with mud . 
The silk hat on the piano told its battered story with dumb eloquence . 
Lifting the lamp , she moved forward a step , and threw its light upon his face . 
A little groan sounded involuntarily upon her lips . 
The effect of dishevelled hair , relaxed muscles , and rough , half bearded lower face lent to these eyes , as she caught their first glance , an unnatural glare . 
The lamp shook in her hand for an instant . 
Then , ashamed of herself , she held out her other hand fearlessly to him . 
Tell me all about it , Theron , she said calmly , and with a soothing , motherly intonation in her voice . 
He did not take the hand she offered , but suddenly , with a wailing moan , cast himself on his knees at her feet . 
He was so tall a man that the movement could have no grace . 
He abased his head awkwardly , to bury it among the folds of the skirts at her ankles . 
She stood still for a moment , looking down upon him . 
Then , blowing out the light , she reached over and set the smoking lamp on the piano near by . 
The daylight made things distinguishable in a wan , uncertain way , throughout the room . 
Its despairing accents appealed to her , but even more was she touched by the ungainly figure he made , sprawling on the carpet . 
Well , since you are out , stay out , she answered , as reassuringly as she could . 
But get up and take a seat here beside me , like a sensible man , and tell me all about it . 
He hung his head , and began catching his breath with a periodical gasp , half hiccough , half sob . 
He shook his head disconsolately , from side to side . 
I can't ! he groaned , with a swifter recurrence of the sob like convulsions . 
I'm dying for sleep , but I'm too too frightened ! Come , I'll sit beside you till you drop off , she said , with masterful decision . 
He suffered himself to be pushed into recumbency on the couch , and put his head with docility on the pillow she brought from the spare room . 
Under the painful surface blur of wretchedness and fatigued debauchery , she traced reflectively the lineaments of the younger and cleanlier countenance she had seen a few months before . 
Nothing essential had been taken away . 
There was only this pestiferous overlaying of shame and cowardice to be removed . 
The face underneath was still all right . 
With a soft , maternal touch , she smoothed the hair from his forehead into order . 
He closed his eyes at this , and gradually the paroxysmal catch in his breathing lapsed . 
The daylight strengthened , until at last tiny flecks of sunshine twinkled in the meshes of the further curtains at the window . 
She fancied him asleep , and gently sought to disengage her hand , but his fingers clutched at it with vehemence , and his eyes were wide open . 
I can't sleep at all , he murmured . 
There 's nothing in the world to hinder you , she commented smilingly . 
It was admitted by everybody to be far and away my finest effort ! They will tell you the same ! It's quite likely , assented Sister Soulsby . 
Then how can anybody say that I've degenerated , that I've become a fool ? he demanded . 
I haven't heard anybody hint at such a thing , she answered quietly . 
No , of course , YOU haven't heard them ! he cried . 
I heard them , though ! Then , forcing himself to a sitting posture , against the restraint of her hand , he flung back the covering . 
I'm burning hot already ! Yes , those were the identical words I haven't improved I've degenerated . 
People hate me they won't have me in their houses . 
They say I'm a nuisance and a bore . 
I'm like a little nasty boy . 
They say I really don't know anything at all . 
And I'm not only a fool , they say , I'm a dishonest fool into the bargain ! But who says such twaddle as that ? she returned consolingly . 
The violence of his emotion disturbed her . 
You mustn't imagine such things . 
You are among friends here . 
Other people are your friends , too . 
They have the very highest opinion of you . 
I haven't a friend on earth but you ! he declared solemnly . 
His eyes glowed fiercely , and his voice sank into a grave intensity of tone . 
I was going to kill myself . 
I went on to the big bridge to throw myself off , and a policeman saw me trying to climb over the railing , and he grabbed me and marched me away . 
Then he threw me out at the entrance , and said he would club my head off if I came there again . 
The fool needn't go kill himself God would take care of that . 
It was my heart , you know . 
I've had that terrible fluttering once before . 
They could see I was a fool , that I hadn't a friend on earth . 
And when I went out , there was a big picture of a woman in tights , and the word 'Amazons' overhead and then I remembered you . 
I knew you were my friend the only one I have on earth . 
It is very flattering to be remembered like that , said Sister Soulsby , gently . 
The disposition to laugh was smothered by a pained perception of the suffering he was undergoing . 
His face had grown drawn and haggard under the burden of his memories as he rambled on . 
So I came straight to you , he began again . 
I had just money enough left to pay my fare . 
The rest is in my valise at the hotel the Murray Hill Hotel . 
It belongs to the church . 
I stole it from the church . 
When I am dead they can get it back again ! Sister Soulsby forced a smile to her lips . 
What nonsense you talk about dying ! she exclaimed . 
Why , man alive , you'll sleep this all off like a top , if you'll only lie down and give yourself a chance . 
Come , now , you must do as you're told . 
With a resolute hand , she made him lie down again , and once more covered him with the fur . 
He submitted , and did not even offer to put out his arm this time , but looked in piteous dumbness at her for a long time . 
While she sat thus in silence , the sound of Brother Soulsby moving about upstairs became audible . 
Theron heard it , and the importance of hurrying on some further disclosure seemed to suggest itself . 
I can see you think I'm just drunk , he said , in low , sombre tones . 
Of course that's what HE thought . 
The hackman thought so , and so did the conductor , and everybody . 
But I hoped you would know better . 
I was sure you would see that it was something worse than that . 
See here , I'll tell you . 
Do you know why ? They understood that I wanted to get drunk , and couldn't . 
The Indians won't harm an idiot , or lunatic , you know . 
Well , it was the same with these vilest of the vile . 
They believe in God , those people . 
They're the only ones who do , it seems to me . 
And they wouldn't interfere when they saw what He was doing to me . 
But I tell you I wasn't drunk . 
I'm only heart broken , and crushed out of shape and life that's all . 
And I've crawled here just to have a friend by me when when I come to the end . 
You're not talking very sensibly , or very bravely either , Theron Ware , remarked his companion . 
It's cowardly to give way to notions like that . 
Oh , I 'm not afraid to die don't think that , he remonstrated wearily . 
If there is a Judgment , it has hit me as hard as it can already . 
There can't be any hell worse than that I've gone through . 
I tell you that frankly . 
It's none of my business , she reassured him . 
I'm not your Bishop , or your confessor . 
I'm just your friend , your pal , that's all . 
Look here ! he broke in , with some animation and a new intensity of glance and voice . 
If I was going to live , I'd have some funny things to tell . 
Six months ago I was a good man . 
I not only seemed to be good , to others and to myself , but I was good . 
I had a soul I had a conscience . 
I was going along doing my duty , and I was happy in it . 
We were poor , Alice and I , and people behaved rather hard toward us , and sometimes we were a little down in the mouth about it but that was all . 
We really were happy and I I really was a good man . 
Here's the kind of joke God plays ! You see me here six months after . 
Look at me ! I haven't got an honest hair in my head . 
I'm a bad man through and through , that's what I am . 
I look all around at myself , and there isn't an atom left anywhere of the good man I used to be . 
And , mind you , I never lifted a finger to prevent the change . 
I didn't resist once I didn't make any fight . 
I just walked deliberately down hill , with my eyes wide open . 
I told myself all the while that I was climbing uphill instead , but I knew in my heart that it was a lie . 
Everything about me was a lie . 
I wouldn't be telling the truth , even now , if if I hadn't come to the end of my rope . 
See here , said Sister Soulsby , alertly , I half believe that a good cuffing is what you really stand in need of . 
He almost smiled up at her in a melancholy way , and sighed profoundly . 
I've told you MY religion before , she went on with gentleness . 
The sheep and the goats are to be separated on Judgment Day , but not a minute sooner . 
In other words , as long as human life lasts , good , bad , and indifferent are all braided up together in every man's nature , and every woman's too . 
You weren't altogether good a year ago , any more than you're altogether bad now . 
You were some of both then you're some of both now . 
In that way you'll find things will even themselves up . 
It's a see saw with all of us , Theron Ware sometimes up sometimes down . 
But nobody is rotten clear to the core . 
He closed his eyes , and lay in silence for a time . 
This is what day of the week ? he asked , at last . 
Wednesday that would be the seventeenth . 
That was the day ordained for my slaughter . 
On that morning , I was the happiest man in the world . 
No king could have been so proud and confident as I was . 
A wonderful romance had come to me . 
The most beautiful young woman in the world , the most talented too , was waiting for me . 
An express train was carrying me to her , and it couldn't go fast enough to keep up with my eagerness . 
She was very rich , and she loved me , and we were to live in eternal summer , wherever we liked , on a big , beautiful yacht . 
No one else had such a life before him as that . 
It seemed almost too good for me , but I thought I had grown and developed so much that perhaps I would be worthy of it . 
Oh , how happy I was ! I tell you this because because YOU are not like the others . 
Yes , I understand , she said patiently . 
Well you were being so happy . 
That was in the morning Wednesday the seventeenth early in the morning . 
Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings , you know . 
She was the first to find it out . 
It began like that , early in the morning . 
But then after that everybody knew it . 
They had only to look at me and they said 'Why , this is a fool like a little nasty boy we won't let him into our houses we find him a bore . 
That is what they said . 
Did SHE say it ? Sister Soulsby permitted herself to ask . 
For answer Theron bit his lips , and drew his chin under the fur , and pushed his scowling face into the pillow . 
The spasmodic , sob like gasps began to shake him again . 
She laid a compassionate hand upon his hot brow . 
That is why I made my way here to you , he groaned piteously . 
I knew you would sympathize I could tell it all to you . 
And it was so awful , to die there alone in the strange city I couldn't do it with nobody near me who liked me , or thought well of me . 
There was no one but you . 
I wanted to be with you at the last . 
Sister Soulsby , as her husband's boots were heard descending the stairs , rose , and drew the robe up to half cover his agonized visage . 
She patted the sufferer softly on the head , and then went to the stair door . 
I think he'll go to sleep now , she said , lifting her voice to the new comer , and with a backward nod toward the couch . 
Come out into the kitchen while I get breakfast , or into the sitting room , or somewhere , so as not to disturb him . 
He's promised me to lie perfectly quiet , and try to sleep . 
When they had passed together out of the room , she turned . 
Soulsby , she said with half playful asperity , I'm disappointed in you . 
For a man who's knocked about as much as you have , I must say you've picked up an astonishingly small outfit of gumption . 
That poor creature in there is no more drunk than I am . 
He's been drinking yes , drinking like a fish but it wasn't able to make him drunk . 
He's past being drunk he's grief crazy . 
It's a case of 'woman . 
Some girl has made a fool of him , and decoyed him up in a balloon , and let him drop . 
He's been hurt bad , too . 
We have all been hurt in our day and generation , responded Brother Soulsby , genially . 
Don't you worry he'll sleep that off too . 
It takes longer than drink , and it doesn't begin to be so pleasant , but it can be slept off . 
Take my word for it , he'll be a different man by noon . 
When noon came , however , Brother Soulsby was on his way to summon one of the village doctors . 
Toward nightfall , he went out again to telegraph for Alice . 
CHAPTER XXXII Spring fell early upon the pleasant southern slopes of the Susquehanna country . 
The snow went off as by magic . 
The trees budded and leaved before their time . 
The birds came and set up their chorus in the elms , while winter seemed still a thing of yesterday . 
Then she was looking out upon surroundings novel and strange to her , among which she must make herself at home as best she could . 
Some cheerful commonplace was on her tongue , but a glance at Alice's wistful face kept it back . 
She passed an arm around her waist instead , and stood in silence , looking at the elms . 
It brings back memories to me all this , said Alice , nodding her head , and not seeking to dissemble the tears which sprang to her eyes . 
The men will be down in a minute , dear , the other reminded her . 
They'd nearly finished packing before I put the biscuits in the oven . 
We mustn't wear long faces before folks , you know . 
Yes , I know , murmured Alice . 
Then , with a sudden impulse , she turned to her companion . 
I'm just dumfounded at your goodness . 
It takes my speech away . 
I only know this , Candace God will be very good to you . 
Tut ! tut ! replied Sister Soulsby , that's all right , you dear thing . 
I know just how you feel . 
Don't dream of being under obligation to explain it to me , or to thank us at all . 
Besides , there's solid satisfaction in knowing that at last , for once in our lives we've had a chance to be of some real use to somebody who truly needed it . 
You can't imagine how stuck up that makes us in our own conceit . 
We feel as if we were George Peabody and Lady Burdett Coutts , and several other philanthropists thrown in . 
No , seriously , don't think of it again . 
I hope we shall do well , said Alice . 
Only tell me this , Candace . 
I think you may rest easy in your mind about that , the other responded . 
Whatever else he does , he will never want to come within gunshot of a pulpit again . 
It came too near murdering him for that . 
Alice looked at her doubtfully . 
Something came near murdering him , I know . 
But it doesn't seem to me that I would say it was the ministry . 
And I guess you know pretty well yourself what it was . 
It's all past and gone . 
In fact , I hardly remember much about it now myself . 
He simply got into deep water , poor soul , and we've floated him out again , safe and sound . 
But all the same , I was right in what I said . 
He was a mistake in the ministry . 
But if you'd known him in previous years , urged Alice , plaintively , before we were sent to that awful Octavius . 
He was the very ideal of all a young minister should be . 
People used to simply worship him , he was such a perfect preacher , and so pure minded and friendly with everybody , and threw himself into his work so . 
It was all that miserable , contemptible Octavius that did the mischief . 
Sister Soulsby slowly shook her head . 
If there hadn't been a screw loose somewhere , she said gently , Octavius wouldn't have hurt him . 
No , take my word for it , he never was the right man for the place . 
He seemed to be , no doubt , but he wasn't . 
When pressure was put on him , it found out his weak spot like a shot , and pushed on it , and well , it came near smashing him , that's all . 
And do you think he'll always be a a back slider , mourned Alice . 
For mercy's sake , don't ever try to have him pretend to be anything else ! exclaimed the other . 
The last state of that man would be worse than the first . 
You must make up your mind to that . 
And you mustn't show that you're nervous about it . 
You mustn't get nervous ! You mustn't be afraid of things . 
Just you keep a stiff upper lip , and say you WILL get along , you WILL be happy . 
That's your only chance , Alice . 
He isn't going to be an angel of light , or a saint , or anything of that sort , and it's no good expecting it . 
But he'll be just an average kind of man a little sore about some things , a little wiser than he was about some others . 
You can get along perfectly with him , if you only keep your courage up , and don't show the white feather . 
Yes , I know but I've had it pretty well taken out of me , commented Alice . 
It used to come easy to me to be cheerful and resolute and all that but it's different now . 
Sister Soulsby stole a swift glance at the unsuspecting face of her companion which was not all admiration , but her voice remained patiently affectionate . 
Oh , that'll all come back to you , right enough . 
You'll have your hands full , you know , finding a house , and unpacking all your old furniture , and buying new things , and getting your home settled . 
It'll keep you so busy you won't have time to feel strange or lonesome , one bit . 
You'll see how it'll tone you up . 
In a year's time you won't know yourself in the looking glass . 
Oh , my health is good enough , said Alice but I can't help thinking , suppose Theron should be taken sick again , away out there among strangers . 
You know he's never appeared to me to have quite got his strength back . 
These long illnesses , you know , they always leave a mark on a man . 
Nonsense ! He's strong as an ox , insisted Sister Soulsby . 
You mark my word , he'll thrive in Seattle like a green bay tree . 
Seattle ! echoed Alice , meditatively . 
During the meal , it was Brother Soulsby who bore the burden of the conversation . 
He was full of the future of Seattle and the magnificent impending development of that Pacific section . 
He had been out there , years ago , when it was next door to uninhabited . 
He had visited the district twice since , and the changes discoverable each new time were more wonderful than anything Aladdin's lamp ever wrought . 
In an hour's time the hack would come to take the Wares and their baggage to the depot , the first stage in their long journey across the continent to their new home . 
He had nothing but confidence , to all appearances , in the success of his young friend , now embarking on this new career . 
At last , it was time to look for the carriage . 
The trunks and hand bags were ready in the hall , and Sister Soulsby was tying up a package of sandwiches for Alice to keep by her in the train . 
Theron , with hat in hand , and overcoat on arm , loitered restlessly into the kitchen , and watched this proceeding for a moment . 
Then he sauntered out upon the stoop , and , lifting his head and drawing as long a breath as he could , looked over at the elms . 
Perhaps the face was older and graver it was hard to tell . 
Only in the eyes themselves , as they rested briefly upon the prospect , did a substantial change suggest itself . 
They did not dwell fondly upon the picture of the lofty , spreading boughs , with their waves of sap green leafage stirring against the blue . 
They did not soften and glow this time , at the thought of how wholly one felt sure of God's goodness in these wonderful new mornings of spring . 
They looked instead straight through the fairest and most moving spectacle in nature's processional , and saw afar off , in conjectural vision , a formless sort of place which was Seattle . 
They surveyed its impalpable outlines , its undefined dimensions , with a certain cool glitter of hard and fast resolve . 
They were attentive faces all , rapt , eager , credulous to a degree . 
Their eyes were admiringly bent upon a common object of excited interest . 
They were looking at HIM they strained their ears to miss no cadence of his voice . 
He smiled , shook himself with a little delighted tremor , and turned on the stoop to the open door . 
What Soulsby said about politics out there interested me enormously , he remarked to the two women . 
I shouldn't be surprised if I found myself doing something in that line . 
I can speak , you know , if I can't do anything else . 
Talk is what tells , these days . 
Who knows ? I may turn up in Washington a full blown senator before I'm forty . 
Stranger things have happened than that , out West ! We'll come down and visit you then , Soulsby and I , said Sister Soulsby , cheerfully . 
You shall take us to the White House , Alice , and introduce us . 
Oh , it isn't likely I would come East , said Alice , pensively . 
Most probably I'd be left to amuse myself in Seattle . 
But there I think that's the carriage driving up to the door . 
