The Dynamiter by Robert Louis Stevenson and Fanny Van De Grift Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk The Dynamiter TO MESSRS . 
It were a waste of ink to do so in a serious spirit . 
Let us dedicate our horror to acts of a more mingled strain , where crime preserves some features of nobility , and where reason and humanity can still relish the temptation . 
Horror , in this case , is due to Mr. Parnell he sits before posterity silent , Mr. Forster's appeal echoing down the ages . 
, we proved false to the imaginations discovered , in a clap , that crime was no less cruel and no less ugly under sounding names and recoiled from our false deities . 
But seriousness comes most in place when we are to speak of our defenders . 
Yours is the side of the child , of the breeding woman , of individual pity and public trust . 
it yet embraces many precious elements and many innocent persons whom it is a glory to defend . 
Courage and devotion , so common in the ranks of the police , so little recognised , so meagrely rewarded , have at length found their commemoration in an historical act . 
The loss is yours and mine or to be more exact , my publishers' . 
But if you are thus unlucky , the least I can do is to pass you a hint . 
The first , who was of a very smooth address and clothed in the best fashion , hesitated to recognise the pinched and shabby air of his companion . 
'What ! he cried , 'Paul Somerset ! 'I am indeed Paul Somerset , returned the other , 'or what remains of him after a well deserved experience of poverty and law . 
But in you , Challoner , I can perceive no change and time may be said , without hyperbole , to write no wrinkle on your azure brow . 
'All , replied Challoner , 'is not gold that glitters . 
But we are here in an ill posture for confidences , and interrupt the movement of these ladies . 
Let us , if you please , find a more private corner . 
'If you will allow me to guide you , replied Somerset , 'I will offer you the best cigar in London . 
And taking the arm of his companion , he led him in silence and at a brisk pace to the door of a quiet establishment in Rupert Street , Soho . 
'I am now , said Somerset , 'a barrister but Providence and the attorneys have hitherto denied me the opportunity to shine . 
At this rate , my little patrimony was very rapidly , and I am proud to remember , most agreeably expended . 
'I should not have supposed so , replied Challoner . 
'But doubtless I met you on the way to your tailors . 
'It is a visit that I purpose to delay , returned Somerset , with a smile . 
'My fortune has definite limits . 
It consists , or rather this morning it consisted , of one hundred pounds . 
'That is certainly odd , said Challoner 'yes , certainly the coincidence is strange . 
I am myself reduced to the same margin . 
'And yet Solomon in all his glory 'Such is the fact . 
I am , dear boy , on my last legs , said Challoner . 
With a hundred pounds for capital , a man should push his way . 
'It may be , returned Somerset 'but what to do with mine is more than I can fancy . 
'The power of money is an article of faith in which I profess myself a sceptic . 
If you are of that stamp of man that rises , a penny would be as useful if you belong to those that fall , a penny would be no more useless . 
When I was myself thrown unexpectedly upon the world , it was my fortune to possess an art I knew a good cigar . 
Do you know nothing , Mr. Somerset ? 'Not even law , was the reply . 
'The answer is worthy of a sage , returned Mr. Godall . 
Whist , sir , is wide as the world 'tis an accomplishment like breathing . 
'Dear me , said Challoner , 'I am afraid I shall have to fall to be a working man . 
'Fall to be a working man ? echoed Mr. Godall . 
By the defects of your education you are more disqualified to be a working man than to be the ruler of an empire . 
The gulf , sir , is below and the true learned arts those which alone are safe from the competition of insurgent laymen are those which give his title to the artisan . 
'This is a very pompous fellow , said Challoner , in the ear of his companion . 
'He is immense , said Somerset . 
Just then the door of the divan was opened , and a third young fellow made his appearance , and rather bashfully requested some tobacco . 
He was younger than the others and , in a somewhat meaningless and altogether English way , he was a handsome lad . 
When he had been served , and had lighted his pipe and taken his place upon the sofa , he recalled himself to Challoner by the name of Desborough . 
'Desborough , to be sure , cried Challoner . 
'Well , Desborough , and what do you do ? 'The fact is , said Desborough , 'that I am doing nothing . 
'A private fortune possibly ? inquired the other . 
'Well , no , replied Desborough , rather sulkily . 
'The fact is that I am waiting for something to turn up . 
'All in the same boat ! cried Somerset . 
'And have you , too , one hundred pounds ? 'Worse luck , said Mr. Desborough . 
'This is a very pathetic sight , Mr. Godall , said Somerset 'Three futiles . 
'A character of this crowded age , returned the salesman . 
I have a prodigious contempt for my maternal uncle but without him , it is idle to deny it , I should simply resolve into my elements like an unstable mixture . 
I begin to perceive that it is necessary to know some one thing to the bottom were it only literature . 
I count myself a man of the world , accomplished , CAP A PIE . 
So do you , Challoner . 
And you , Mr. Desborough ? 'Oh yes , returned the young man . 
, in the midst of the chief mass of people , and within ear shot of the most continuous chink of money on the surface of the globe . 
Sir , as civilised men , what do we do ? I will show you . 
You take in a paper ? 'I take , said Mr. Godall solemnly , 'the best paper in the world , the STANDARD . 
'I now hold it in my hand , the voice of the world , a telephone repeating all men's wants . 
Here is a want , a plaint , an offer of substantial gratitude TWO HUNDRED POUNDS REWARD . 
The above reward will be paid to any person giving information as to the identity and whereabouts of a man observed yesterday in the neighbourhood of the Green Park . 
He was over six feet in height , with shoulders disproportionately broad , close shaved , with black moustaches , and wearing a sealskin great coat . 
There , gentlemen , our fortune , if not made , is founded . 
'Do you then propose , dear boy , that we should turn detectives ? inquired Challoner . 
'Do I propose it ? No , sir , cried Somerset . 
'It is reason , destiny , the plain face of the world , that commands and imposes it . 
It is , in short , the only profession for a gentleman . 
'The proposition is perhaps excessive , replied Challoner 'for hitherto I own I have regarded it as of all dirty , sneaking , and ungentlemanly trades , the least and lowest . 
'To defend society ? asked Somerset 'to stake one's life for others ? to deracinate occult and powerful evil ? I appeal to Mr. Godall . 
He , at least , as a philosophic looker on at life , will spit upon such philistine opinions . 
These are the hands but here here , sir , is the head , cried Somerset . 
We shall hunt down this miscreant in the sealskin coat . 
'Suppose that we agreed , retorted Challoner , 'you have no plan , no knowledge you know not where to seek for a beginning . 
Then comes the part of the man of the world , of the detective born and bred . 
'Just so , said Challoner 'and I am delighted that you should recognise these virtues in yourself . 
But in the meanwhile , dear boy , I own myself incapable of joining . 
I was neither born nor bred as a detective , but as a placable and very thirsty gentleman and , for my part , I begin to weary for a drink . 
As for clues and adventures , the only adventure that is ever likely to occur to me will be an adventure with a bailiff . 
'Now there is the fallacy , cried Somerset . 
'There I catch the secret of your futility in life . 
But not you you turn away , you walk your seedy mill round , you must go the dullest way . 
Now here , I beg of you , the next adventure that offers itself , embrace it in with both your arms whatever it looks , grimy or romantic , grasp it . 
'It is not much in my way , said Challoner , 'but , since you make a point of it , amen . 
'I don't mind promising , said Desborough , 'but nothing will happen to me . 
'O faithless ones ! cried Somerset . 
'But at least I have your promises and Godall , I perceive , is transported with delight . 
'I promise myself at least much pleasure from your various narratives , said the salesman , with the customary calm polish of his manner . 
'And now , gentlemen , concluded Somerset , 'let us separate . 
I hasten to put myself in fortune's way . 
CHALLONER'S ADVENTURE THE SQUIRE OF DAMES MR . 
EDWARD CHALLONER had set up lodgings in the suburb of Putney , where he enjoyed a parlour and bedroom and the sincere esteem of the people of the house . 
To this remote home he found himself , at a very early hour in the morning of the next day , condemned to set forth on foot . 
He was a young man of a portly habit no lover of the exercises of the body bland , sedentary , patient of delay , a prop of omnibuses . 
In happier days he would have chartered a cab but these luxuries were now denied him and with what courage he could muster he addressed himself to walk . 
'Here , he reflected , 'if I were like my scatter brained companion , here were indeed the scene where I might look for an adventure . 
If I but raise my voice I could summon up the number of an army , and yet the grave is not more silent than this city of sleep . 
He was still following these quaint and serious musings when he came into a street of more mingled ingredients than was common in the quarter . 
Here , on the one hand , framed in walls and the green tops of trees , were several of those discreet , BIJOU residences on which propriety is apt to look askance . 
As he so stood , he was startled by a dull and jarring detonation from within . 
This was followed by a monstrous hissing and simmering as from a kettle of the bigness of St . 
Paul's and at the same time from every chink of door and window spirted an ill smelling vapour . 
The cat disappeared with a cry . 
At last his reason and his fear awoke together , and with the most unwonted energy he fell to running . 
With an obscure awe he considered them in his mind , continuing , meanwhile , to thread the web of streets , and once more alone in morning sunshine . 
This street , whose name I have forgotten , is no thoroughfare . 
Each saw the other in the same instant of time and she , with one wild look , sprang to her feet and began to hurry from the scene . 
Challoner was doubly startled to meet once more the heroine of his adventure , and to observe the fear with which she shunned him . 
Pity and alarm , in nearly equal forces , contested the possession of his mind and yet , in spite of both , he saw himself condemned to follow in the lady's wake . 
He did so gingerly , as fearing to increase her terrors but , tread as lightly as he might , his footfalls eloquently echoed in the empty street . 
Their sound appeared to strike in her some strong emotion for scarce had he begun to follow ere she paused . 
A second time she addressed herself to flight and a second time she paused . 
Then she turned about , and with doubtful steps and the most attractive appearance of timidity , drew near to the young man . 
He on his side continued to advance with similar signals of distress and bashfulness . 
At length , when they were but some steps apart , he saw her eyes brim over , and she reached out both her hands in eloquent appeal . 
'Are you an English gentleman ? she cried . 
The unhappy Challoner regarded her with consternation . 
His looks returned at last upon the suppliant . 
An unmistakable relief appeared upon the lady's face . 
'I might have guessed it ! she exclaimed . 
'I beg you to lend me your arm , she added with the loveliest , suppliant inflection . 
'I dare not go alone my nerve is gone I had a shock , oh , what a shock ! I beg of you to be my escort . 
'My dear madam , responded Challoner heavily , 'my arm is at your service . 
'She took it and clung to it for a moment , struggling with her sobs and the next , with feverish hurry , began to lead him in the direction of the city . 
One thing was plain , among so much that was obscure it was plain her fears were genuine . 
Still , as she went , she spied around as if for dangers and now she would shiver like a person in a chill , and now clutch his arm in hers . 
To Challoner her terror was at once repugnant and infectious it gained and mastered , while it still offended him and he wailed in spirit and longed for release . 
So they continued to thread the maze of streets in silence , with the speed of a guilty flight , and both thrilling with incommunicable terrors . 
'I thought , said he , in the tone of conversation , 'that I had indistinctly perceived you leaving a villa in the company of two gentlemen . 
'Oh ! she said , 'you need not fear to wound me by the truth . 
You saw me flee from a common lodging house , and my companions were not gentlemen . 
In such a case , the best of compliments is to be frank . 
'I thought , resumed Challoner , encouraged as much as he was surprised by the spirit of her reply , 'to have perceived , besides , a certain odour . 
A noise , too I do not know to what I should compare it 'Silence ! she cried . 
'You do not know the danger you invoke . 
Wait , only wait and as soon as we have left those streets , and got beyond the reach of listeners , all shall be explained . 
Meanwhile , avoid the topic . 
'I perceive , madam , said he , 'you are a reader . 
'I am more than that , she answered , with a sigh . 
'I am a girl condemned to thoughts beyond her age and so untoward is my fate , that this walk upon the arm of a stranger is like an interlude of peace . 
Here I must leave you , and here I beseech you to wait for my return . 
Do not attempt to follow me or spy upon my actions . 
Suspend yet awhile your judgment of a girl as innocent as your own sister and do not , above all , desert me . 
Stranger as you are , I have none else to look to . 
Challoner grudgingly promised and the young lady , with a grateful eye shot , vanished round the corner . 
It was into one of these that Challoner , coming round the corner of the block , beheld his charming companion disappear . 
To say he was surprised were inexact , for he had long since left that sentiment behind him . 
Acute disgust and disappointment seized upon his soul and with silent oaths , he damned this commonplace enchantress . 
She had scarce been gone a second , ere the swing doors reopened , and she appeared again in company with a young man of mean and slouching attire . 
Against mere beauty he was proof it was her unmistakable gentility that now robbed him of the courage of his cowardice . 
At the very corner from whence he had spied upon her interview , she came upon him , still transfixed , and 'Ah ! she cried , with a bright flush of colour . 
'Ah ! Ungenerous ! The sharpness of the attack somewhat restored the Squire of Dames to the possession of himself . 
She stood a moment dumb . 
'It is well , she said . 
And with a passionate gesture she turned and fled along the street . 
Challoner observed her retreat and disappear , an almost intolerable sense of guilt contending with the profound sense that he was being gulled . 
At the corner he had her once more full in view . 
Her speed was failing like a stricken bird's . 
Even as he looked , she threw her arm out gropingly , and fell and leaned against the wall . 
At the spectacle , Challoner's fortitude gave way . 
She took it with a sigh that struck him to the heart and they began once more to trace the deserted streets . 
'Let me forget , she had said , 'for one half hour , let me forget and sure enough , with the very word , her sorrows appeared to be forgotten . 
'Ah , she sighed , by way of commentary , 'in such a life as mine I must seize tight hold of any happiness that I can find . 
Presently they came in sight of a bench , standing very open on a mound of turf . 
The young lady looked about her with relief . 
'Here , she said , 'here at last we are secure from listeners . 
Here , then , you shall learn and judge my history . 
I could not bear that we should part , and that you should still suppose your kindness squandered upon one who was unworthy . 
He sought the States and instead of lingering in effeminate cities , pushed at once into the far West with an exploring party of frontiersmen . 
He was no ordinary traveller for he was not only brave and impetuous by character , but learned in many sciences , and above all in botany , which he particularly loved . 
Thus it fell that , before many months , Fremont himself , the nominal leader of the troop , courted and bowed to his opinion . 
They had pushed , as I have said , into the still unknown regions of the West . 
For some time they followed the track of Mormon caravans , guiding themselves in that vast and melancholy desert by the skeletons of men and animals . 
Then they inclined their route a little to the north , and , losing even these dire memorials , came into a country of forbidding stillness . 
On the fortieth day they had already run so short of food that it was judged advisable to call a halt and scatter upon all sides to hunt . 
A great fire was built , that its smoke might serve to rally them and each man of the party mounted and struck off at a venture into the surrounding desert . 
He quickened the pace of his steed , and still following the quarry , came at last to the division of two watersheds . 
Here , then , he picketed his horse , and relying on his trusty rifle , advanced alone into that wilderness . 
The stream ran at the bottom of a narrow and winding passage , whose wall like sides of rock were sometimes for miles together unscalable by man . 
But the scene had not passed without observation even in that starving camp . 
The bear leaped and fell into a pool of the river the canyon re echoed the report and in a moment the camp was afoot . 
His arrival was for some time unremarked . 
A touch upon the arm restrained him . 
He beckoned my father near the cliff , and there , in the most private whisper , begged for brandy . 
My father looked at him with scorn 'You remind me , he said , 'of a neglected duty . 
Here is my flask it contains enough , I trust , to revive the women of your party and I will begin with her whom I saw you robbing of her blankets . 
And with that , not heeding his appeals , my father turned his back upon the egoist . 
'Is there none left ? not a drop for me ? said the man with the beard . 
'Not one drop , replied my father 'and if you find yourself in want , let me counsel you to put your hand into the pocket of your coat . 
'Ah ! cried the other , 'you misjudge me . 
You think me one who clings to life for selfish and commonplace considerations . 
But let me tell you , that were all this caravan to perish , the world would but be lightened of a weight . 
And you compare their lives with mine ! 'You are then a Mormon missionary ? asked my father . 
'Oh ! cried the man , with a strange smile , 'a Mormon missionary if you will ! I value not the title . 
Were I no more than that , I could have died without a murmur . 
But with my life as a physician is bound up the knowledge of great secrets and the future of man . 
'And you are a physician , mused my father , looking on his face , 'bound by oath to succour man in his distresses . 
Here , for instance , growing on the under side of fissures in this cliff , you will perceive a yellow moss . 
Trust me , it is both edible and excellent . 
'Ha ! said Doctor Grierson , 'you know botany ! 'Not I alone , returned my father , lowering his voice 'for see where these have been scraped away . 
Am I right ? Was that your secret store ? My father's comrades , he found , when he returned to the signal fire , had made a good day's hunting . 
They were thus the more easily persuaded to extend assistance to the Mormon caravan and the next day beheld both parties on the march for the frontiers of Utah . 
I will call my mother Lucy . 
Her family name I am not at liberty to mention it is one you would know well . 
Let it suffice , that even in these untoward circumstances , she found a heart worthy of her own . 
The marriage took place , and I was its only offspring . 
I dwelt , indeed , under the Mormon system , with perfect innocence and faith . 
It was terrible , indeed but so was death , the universal law . 
Our only neighbour was Dr . 
His house was but a mile or two from ours , but very differently placed . 
It stood overlooking the road on the summit of a steep slope , and planted close against a range of overhanging bluffs . 
Not even spring could change one feature of that desolate scene and the windows looked down across a plain , snowy with alkali , to ranges of cold stone sierras on the north . 
'Ah , no , said my father , 'never robbed and I observed a strange conviction in his tone . 
At last , and not long before the blow fell on my unhappy family , I chanced to see the doctor's house in a new light . 
As we continued to draw near , besides , a regular and panting throb began to divide the silence . 
I had heard of the railway , though I had not seen it , and I turned to ask the driver if this resembled it . 
But some look in his eye , some pallor , whether of fear or moonlight on his face , caused the words to die upon my lips . 
This was the one adventure of my life , until my father had climbed to the very topmost point of material prosperity , and I myself had reached the age of seventeen . 
But the fears which had long pressed on others were now to be laid on my youth . 
'The blow has come , my father said , after a long pause . 
I could hear my mother start and turn , but in words she made no reply . 
You are accused of some concealment . 
You will pay more taxes in the future , and be mulcted in a fine . 
It is disquieting , indeed , to find our acts so spied upon , and the most private known . 
But is this new ? Have we not long feared and suspected every blade of grass ? 'Ay , and our shadows ! cried my father . 
'But all this is nothing . 
Here is the letter that accompanied the list . 
I heard my mother turn the pages , and she was some time silent . 
Am I not right ? These are the words you fear ? 'These are the words , replied my father . 
He had received a letter such as this and he submitted to my approval an answer , in which he offered to resign a third of his possessions . 
I conjured him , as he valued life , to raise his offering and , before we parted , he had doubled the amount . 
Well , two days later he was gone gone from the chief street of the city in the hour of noon and gone for ever . 
'Is there no hope in Grierson ? asked my mother . 
'Dismiss the thought , replied my father . 
'He now knows all that I can teach , and will do naught to save me . 
'Believe what ? asked my mother and then , with a change of note , 'But oh , what matters it ? she cried . 
'Abimelech , there is but one way open we must fly ! 'It is in vain , returned my father . 
'I should but involve you in my fate . 
To leave this land is hopeless we are closed in it as men are closed in life and there is no issue but the grave . 
'We can but die then , replied my mother . 
'Let us at least die together . 
Let not Asenath and myself survive you . 
Cascade after cascade thundered and hung up its flag of whiteness in the night , or fanned our faces with the wet wind of its descent . 
We looked upon each other in the firelight my mother broke into a passion of tears but not a word was said . 
The mules were turned about and leaving that great eye to guard the lonely canyon , we retraced our steps in silence . 
Day had not yet broken ere we were once more at home , condemned beyond reprieve . 
'For , said he , 'then , at the latest , you must ride with me . 
The two men had set forth at a deliberate pace nor was I long behind them , when I reached the point of view . 
I was the more amazed to see no moving creature in the landscape . 
Days passed , and still my mother and I waited in vain for news a week went by , a second followed , but we heard no word of the father and husband . 
Hope , if any hope we had , fled with every hour the worst was now certain for my father , the worst was to be dreaded for his defenceless family . 
Without weakness , with a desperate calm at which I marvel when I look back upon it , the widow and the orphan awaited the event . 
The day passed , indeed , without event but in the fall of the evening we were called at last into the verandah by the approaching clink of horse's hoofs . 
The doctor , mounted on an Indian pony , rode into the garden , dismounted , and saluted us . 
He seemed much more bent , and his hair more silvery than ever but his demeanour was composed , serious , and not unkind . 
'Sir , said my mother , 'I have but one concern , one thought . 
You know well what it is . 
Speak my husband ? 'Madam , returned the doctor , taking a chair on the verandah , 'if you were a silly child , my position would now be painfully embarrassing . 
Farther words from me are , I conceive , superfluous . 
'Then , sir , said she at last , 'you speak to deaf ears . 
If this be indeed so , what have I to do with errands ? What do I ask of Heaven but to die ? 'Come , said the doctor , 'command yourself . 
I bid you dismiss all thoughts of your late husband , and bring a clear mind to bear upon your own future and the fate of that young girl . 
'You bid me dismiss began my mother . 
'Then you know ! she cried . 
'I know , replied the doctor . 
'You know ? broke out the poor woman . 
You have a spirit , Asenath , that it pleases me to recognise . 
At this odious proposal my mother and I cried out aloud , and clung together like lost souls . 
'It is as I supposed , resumed the doctor , with the same measured utterance . 
'You recoil from this arrangement . 
Do you expect me to convince you ? You know very well that I have never held the Mormon view of women . 
No you need not , madam , and my old friend' and here the doctor rose and bowed with something of gallantry 'you need not apprehend my importunities . 
and set off to the stable to prepare our horses . 
'What does it mean ? what will become of us ? I cried . 
'Not that , at least , replied my mother , shuddering . 
'So far we can trust him . 
I seem to read among his words a certain tragic promise . 
'The doctor ! I cried at last 'the man who killed my father ? 'Nay , said she , 'let us be just . 
I do believe before , Heaven , he played the friendliest part . 
And he alone , Asenath , can protect you in this land of death . 
At the foot of the track which ascended the talus of the mountain to his door , the doctor overtook me at a trot . 
'Here , he said , 'we shall dismount and as your mother prefers to be alone , you and I shall walk together to my house . 
'Shall I see her again ? I asked . 
'I give you my word , he said , and helped me to alight . 
'We leave the horses here , he added . 
'There are no thieves in this stone wilderness . 
The track mounted gradually , keeping the house in view . 
And then my curiosity broke forth . 
I had been scalded cruelly . 
We were now near the house , which , unlike the ordinary houses of the country , was built of hewn stone and very solid . 
Stone , too , was its foundation , stone its background . 
Not a blade of grass sprouted among the broken mineral about the walls , not a flower adorned the windows . 
The doctor opened the door and paused upon the threshold . 
'You ask me what I make here , he observed . 
'Two things Life and Death . 
And he motioned me to enter . 
I had scarce time to master my alarm when the doctor returned , and almost in the same moment my mother appeared upon the threshold . 
I ran to her in a kind of terror but she shrank a little back and laid her finger on her lips , with something arch and yet unearthly . 
To the doctor , on the contrary , she reached out her hand as to a friend and helper and so strange was the scene that I forgot to be offended . 
'Lucy , said the doctor , 'all is prepared . 
Were she shut out , dear friend , it is to be feared she might misjudge your kindness . 
'You have made a choice , he continued , addressing my mother , 'that has often strangely tempted me . 
The two extremes all , or else nothing never , or this very hour upon the clock these have been my incongruous desires . 
He looked upon my mother fixedly , much of admiration and some touch of envy in his eyes then , with a profound sigh , he led the way into the inner room . 
In one corner I perceived a chair resting upon crystal feet , and curiously wreathed with wire . 
To this my mother advanced with a decisive swiftness . 
'Is this it ? she asked . 
The doctor bowed in silence . 
'Asenath , said my mother , 'in this sad end of my life I have found one helper . 
Look upon him it is Doctor Grierson . 
Be not , oh my daughter , be not ungrateful to that friend ! She sate upon the chair , and took in her hands the globes that terminated the arms . 
'Am I right ? she asked , and looked upon the doctor with such a radiancy of face that I trembled for her reason . 
Once more the doctor bowed , but this time leaning hard against the wall . 
He must have touched a spring . 
The least shock agitated my mother where she sat the least passing jar appeared to cross her features and she sank back in the chair like one resigned to weariness . 
I do not know how long may have elapsed before , raising for a moment my tearful face , I met the doctor's eyes . 
They rested upon mine with such a depth of scrutiny , pity , and interest , that even from the freshness of my sorrow , I was startled into attention . 
'Enough , he said , 'to lamentation . 
Your mother went to death as to a bridal , dying where her husband died . 
It is time , Asenath , to think of the survivors . 
Follow me to the next room . 
Such a fate for a girl like you were worse than death better to die as your mother died than to sink daily deeper in the mire of this pit of woman's degradation . 
'I see , I cried 'you judge me rightly . 
I must follow where my parents led and oh ! I am not only willing , I am eager ! 'No , replied the doctor , 'not death for you . 
The flawed vessel we may break , but not the perfect . 
It was your mother's thought , he added , with a change of tone , 'that I should marry you myself . 
I fear I must have shown a perfect horror of aversion from this fate , for he made haste to quiet me . 
'Reassure yourself , Asenath , he resumed . 
'Old as I am , I have not forgotten the tumultuous fancies of youth . 
I have passed my days , indeed , in laboratories but in all my vigils I have not forgotten the tune of a young pulse . 
Age asks with timidity to be spared intolerable pain youth , taking fortune by the beard , demands joy like a right . 
These things I have not forgotten none , rather , has more keenly felt , none more jealously considered them I have but postponed them to their day . 
See , then you stand without support the only friend left to you , this old investigator , old in cunning , young in sympathy . 
'It is enough , he said . 
I shall send you to England , to the great city of London , there to await the bridegroom I have selected . 
He shall be a son of mine , a young man suitable in age and not grossly deficient in that quality of beauty that your years demand . 
The doctor's marriages , I remembered to have heard , had been unfruitful and this added perplexity to my distress . 
He seemed more moved by my consent than I could reasonably have looked for . 
'You shall see , he cried 'you shall judge for yourself . 
And hurrying to the next room he returned with a small portrait somewhat coarsely done in oils . 
It showed a man in the dress of nearly forty years before , young indeed , but still recognisable to be the doctor . 
'Do you like it ? he asked . 
'That is myself when I was young . 
My my boy will be like that , like but nobler with such health as angels might condescend to envy and a man of mind , Asenath , of commanding mind . 
That should be a man , I think that should be one among ten thousand . 
'It is well , he replied , 'and I had rightly counted on your spirit . 
Eat , then , for you have far to go . 
So saying , he set meat before me and while I was endeavouring to obey , he left the room and returned with an armful of coarse raiment . 
'There , said he , 'is your disguise . 
I leave you to your toilet . 
The clothes had probably belonged to a somewhat lubberly boy of fifteen and they hung about me like a sack , and cruelly hampered my movements . 
But what filled me with uncontrollable shudderings , was the problem of their origin and the fate of the lad to whom they had belonged . 
'Mount , he said , 'swiftly . 
When you are at the summit , walk , so far as you are able , in the shadow of the smoke . 
The smoke will bring you , sooner or later , to a canyon follow that down , and you will find a man with two horses . 
Him you will implicitly obey . 
And remember , silence ! That machinery , which I now put in motion for your service , may by one word be turned against you . 
Go Heaven prosper you ! The ascent was easy . 
Arrived at the top of the cliff , I saw before me on the other side a vast and gradual declivity of stone , lying bare to the moon and the surrounding mountains . 
Nowhere was any vantage or concealment and knowing how these deserts were beset with spies , I made haste to veil my movements under the blowing trail of smoke . 
But , one way or another , the smoke of that ill omened furnace protected the first steps of my escape , and led me unobserved to the canyon . 
The bundle contained clothing of my own , taken from our house , with such necessaries as a comb and soap . 
'Here , he added , 'is your ticket as far as Council Bluffs . 
The East express will pass in a few hours . 
With that , he took both horses , and , without further words or any salutation , rode off by the way that we had come . 
Three hours afterwards , I was seated on the end platform of the train as it swept eastward through the gorges and thundered in tunnels of the mountain . 
In this mood , I examined the contents of the bag . 
All then had been arranged beforehand he had counted upon my consent , and what was tenfold worse , upon my mother's voluntary death . 
My horror of my only friend , my aversion for this son who was to marry me , my revolt against the whole current and conditions of my life , were now complete . 
I was sitting stupefied by my distress and helplessness , when , to my joy , a very pleasant lady offered me her conversation . 
This soon carried one of my inexperience beyond her depth and I had already remarked a shadow on the lady's face , when a gentleman drew near and very civilly addressed me . 
'Miss Gould , I believe ? said he and then , excusing himself to the lady by the authority of my guardian , drew me to the fore platform of the Pullman car . 
'Miss Gould , he said in my ear , 'is it possible that you suppose yourself in safety ? Let me completely undeceive you . 
One more such indiscretion and you return to Utah . 
Let that suffice it was the pattern of my journey . 
Whether on the train , at the hotels , or on board the ocean steamer , I never exchanged a friendly word with any fellow traveller but I was certain to be interrupted . 
The landlady , like every one else through all that journey , was expecting my arrival . 
I saw month follow month over my head . 
Meanwhile , I tried honestly to prepare my mind for my approaching nuptials . 
The day drew near when my bridegroom was to visit me , and gratitude and fear alike obliged me to consent . 
We have a great power upon our spirits and as time passed I worked myself into a frame of acquiescence , nay , and I began to grow impatient for the hour . 
In the dead level and solitude of my existence , this was the one eastern window and the one door of hope . 
At last , I had so cultivated and prepared my will , that I began to be besieged with fears upon the other side . 
The door opened , and it was Doctor Grierson that appeared . 
I believe I must have screamed aloud , and I know , at least , that I fell fainting to the floor . 
When I came to myself he was standing over me , counting my pulse . 
'I have startled you , he said . 
'A difficulty unforeseen the impossibility of obtaining a certain drug in its full purity has forced me to resort to London unprepared . 
Since my first years , I have devoted every hour and act of life to one ambitious task and the time of my success is at hand . 
That son that husband , Asenath , is myself not as you now behold me , but restored to the first energy of youth . 
You think me mad ? It is the customary attitude of ignorance . 
I will not argue I will leave facts to speak . 
the first perfect expression of the powers of mankind I shall be able to laugh with a better grace at your passing and natural incredulity . 
I already excel you in every human gift but one when that gift also has been restored to me you will recognise your master . 
Hereupon , consulting his watch , he told me he must now leave me to myself and bidding me consult reason , and not girlish fancies , he withdrew . 
Late in the evening he returned , carrying a candle , and , with a certain irritable tremor , bade me rise and sup . 
'Is it possible , he added , 'that I have been deceived in your courage ? A cowardly girl is no fit mate for me . 
'Why , certainly , he replied . 
'I know you better than yourself and I am well enough acquainted with human nature to understand this scene . 
It is addressed to me , he added with a smile , 'in my character of the still untransformed . 
But do not alarm yourself about the future . 
Let me but attain my end , and not you only , Asenath , but every woman on the face of the earth becomes my willing slave . 
In all this talk of an elixir and the restoration of his youth , I scarce knew from which hypothesis I should the more eagerly recoil . 
So passed the night , in alternations of rebellion and despair , of hate and pity and with the next morning I was only to comprehend more fully my enslaved position . 
For though he appeared with a very tranquil countenance , he had no sooner observed the marks of grief upon my brow than an answering darkness gathered on his own . 
How I replied I know not but I found a voice and words to answer , even while I wept and raged to hear him . 
A week ago the doctor entered my room with the marks of great exhilaration contending with pitiful bodily weakness . 
'Asenath , said he , 'I have now obtained the last ingredient . 
In one week from now the perilous moment of the last projection will draw nigh . 
You have once before assisted , although unconsciously , at the failure of a similar experiment . 
In a week then from to day , my dear Asenath , this period of trial will be ended . 
And he smiled upon me in a manner unusually paternal . 
I smiled back with my lips , but at my heart there raged the blackest and most unbridled terror . 
Suppose , then , this experiment to succeed suppose him to return to me , hideously restored , like a vampire in a legend and suppose that , by some devilish fascination . 
My head turned all former fears deserted me and I felt I could embrace the worst in preference to this . 
My mind was instantly made up . 
The doctor's presence in London was justified by the affairs of the Mormon polity . 
They recognised my claim for help , and on this very day I was to begin my escape . 
Last night I sat up fully dressed , awaiting the result of the doctor's labours , and prepared against the worst . 
The nights at this season and in this northern latitude are short and I had soon the company of the returning daylight . 
As he saw me he raised the flask at arm's length . 
WHAT with the lady's animated manner and dramatic conduct of her voice , Challoner had thrilled to every incident with genuine emotion . 
His fancy , which was not perhaps of a very lively character , applauded both the matter and the style but the more judicial functions of his mind refused assent . 
It was an excellent story and it might be true , but he believed it was not . 
His mind , indeed , was empty of everything beyond a dull longing for escape . 
From this pause , which grew the more embarrassing with every second , he was roused by the sudden laughter of the lady . 
His vanity was alarmed he turned and faced her their eyes met and he caught from hers a spark of such frank merriment as put him instantly at ease . 
'You certainly , he said , 'appear to bear your calamities with excellent spirit . 
'Do I not ? she cried , and fell once more into delicious laughter . 
But from this access she more speedily recovered . 
At this mention of help Challoner fell back to his original gloom . 
'My sympathies are much engaged with you , he said , 'and I should be delighted , I am sure . 
'Do so , she said , 'and weigh my words well you kill me as certainly as with a knife . 
'God bless me ! exclaimed Challoner . 
'I begin to interest you , she cried . 
'But , frankly , you are condemned to help me . 
If the service I had to ask of you were serious , were suspicious , were even unusual , I should say no more . 
The sight of so much money worked an immediate revolution in the mind of Challoner . 
'Madam , said Challoner , 'I perceive I must make you a confession . 
'Do you not see , returned the young lady , 'that by these words you have removed my last hesitation ? Take them . 
And she thrust the notes into the young man's hand . 
He sat so long , holding them , like a baby at the font , that Miss Fonblanque once more bubbled into laughter . 
The whole thing , he reasoned , might be a mere mystification , which it were the height of solemn folly to resent . 
The story seemed false but then the money was undeniable . 
The whole circumstances were questionable and obscure but the lady was charming , and had the speech and manners of society . 
While he still hung in the wind , a recollection returned upon his mind with some of the dignity of prophecy . 
Had he not promised Somerset to break with the traditions of the commonplace , and to accept the first adventure offered ? Well , here was the adventure . 
He thrust the money into his pocket . 
'My name is Challoner , said he . 
Challoner , she replied , 'you have come very generously to my aid when all was against me . 
Though I am myself a very humble person , my family commands great interest and I do not think you will repent this handsome action . 
Near the Marble Arch they found a hansom , which rapidly conveyed them to the terminus at Euston Square and here , in the hotel , they sat down to an excellent breakfast . 
'Here , said she , 'here is the letter which will introduce you to my cousin . 
She began to fold the paper . 
She said this with unusual emotion and , at the same time , sealed the envelope . 
'Ah ! she cried , 'I have shut my letter ! It is not quite courteous and yet , as between friends , it is perhaps better so . 
I introduce you , after all , into a family secret and though you and I are already old comrades , you are still unknown to my uncle . 
When we next meet , you will tell me what you think of her , she added , with a touch of the provocative . 
'Ah , said Challoner , almost tenderly , 'she can be nothing to me . 
'You do not know , replied the young lady , with a sigh . 
We had agreed upon a watchword . 
Come now , say your lesson . 
Nigger , nigger , never die , repeated Challoner , with undisguised reluctance . 
Miss Fonblanque went into fits of laughter . 
'Excellent , said she , 'it will be the most humorous scene . 
'And what will be the counterword ? asked Challoner stiffly . 
'I will not tell you till the last moment , said she 'for I perceive you are growing too imperious . 
Then she put her head into the carriage . 
'BLACK FACE AND SHINING EYE ! she whispered , and instantly leaped down upon the platform , with a thrill of gay and musical laughter . 
As the train steamed out of the great arch of glass , the sound of that laughter still rang in the young man's ears . 
Challoner's position was too unusual to be long welcome to his mind . 
Enoch's , had fallen to the lowest and coldest zones of self contempt . 
In the late , luminous , and lamp starred dusk of the summer evening , he accordingly set forward with brisk steps . 
But still , under the grime of years of city smoke , these antiquated cottages , with their venetian blinds and rural porticoes , retained a somewhat melancholy savour of the past . 
The street when Challoner entered it was perfectly deserted . 
From hard by , indeed , the sound of a thousand footfalls filled the ear but in Richard Street itself there was neither light nor sound of human habitation . 
The bell was ancient , like the house it had a thin and garrulous note and it was some time before it ceased to sound from the rear quarters of the building . 
Following upon this an inner door was stealthily opened , and careful and catlike steps drew near along the hall . 
Challoner , supposing he was to be instantly admitted , produced his letter , and , as well as he was able , prepared a smiling face . 
Challoner replied , in tones from which he strove to banish his surprise , that he was the bearer of a letter to a certain Miss Fonblanque . 
It was already long past eight at night and though the late twilight of the north still lingered in the streets , in the passage it was already groping dark . 
The man led Challoner directly to a parlour looking on the garden to the back . 
The room , on the other hand , was furnished with faded solidity , and the walls were lined with scholarly and costly volumes in glazed cases . 
The house must have been taken furnished for it had no congruity with this man of the shirt sleeves and the mean supper . 
As for the earl's daughter , the earl and the visionary consulships in foreign cities , they had long ago begun to fade in Challoner's imagination . 
Like Doctor Grierson and the Mormon angels , they were plainly woven of the stuff of dreams . 
Not an illusion remained to the knight errant not a hope was left him , but to be speedily relieved from this disreputable business . 
The man had continued to regard his visitor with undisguised anxiety , and began once more to press him for his errand . 
A growing wonder began to mingle on the man's face with the lines of solicitude . 
Seeing the speaker wore a chin beard of considerable length , and the remainder of his face was blue with shaving , Challoner could only suppose himself the subject of a jest . 
He was no longer under the spell of the young lady's presence and with men , and above all with his inferiors , he was capable of some display of spirit . 
'Sir , said he , pretty roundly , 'I have put myself to great inconvenience for persons of whom I know too little , and I begin to be weary of the business . 
Either you shall immediately summon Miss Fonblanque , or I leave this house and put myself under the direction of the police . 
'This is horrible ! exclaimed the man . 
'This may , perhaps , assist you , he said , and then , with some embarrassment , Nigger , nigger , never die . 
A light of relief broke upon the troubled countenance of the man with the chin beard . 
Black face and shining eye give me the letter , he panted , in one gasp . 
Here it is , and he produced the envelope . 
The man leaped upon it like a beast , and with hands that trembled in a manner painful to behold , tore it open and unfolded the letter . 
As he read , terror seemed to mount upon him to the pitch of nightmare . 
He struck one hand upon his brow , while with the other , as if unconsciously , he crumpled the paper to a ball . 
Turning again into the room , and once more beholding his visitor , whom he appeared to have forgotten , he fairly danced with trepidation . 
'Oh , quite impossible ! O Lord , I have lost my head . 
And then , once more striking his hand upon his brow , 'The money ! he exclaimed . 
'My good friend , replied Challoner , 'this is a very painful exhibition and until I see you reasonably master of yourself , I decline to proceed with any business . 
'You are quite right , said the man . 
'I am of a very nervous habit a long course of the dumb ague has undermined my constitution . 
'You will find the sum , I trust , correct , he observed 'and let me ask you to give me a receipt . 
But the man heeded him not . 
He seized the money , and disregarding the sovereigns that rolled loose upon the floor , thrust the bundle of notes into his pocket . 
'A receipt , repeated Challoner , with some asperity . 
'I insist on a receipt . 
'Receipt ? repeated the man , a little wildly . 
'A receipt ? Immediately ! Await me here . 
Challoner , in reply , begged the gentleman to lose no unnecessary time , as he was himself desirous of catching a particular train . 
'This is certainly a most amazing business , thought Challoner 'certainly a most disquieting affair and I cannot conceal from myself that I have become mixed up with either lunatics or malefactors . 
I may truly thank my stars that I am so nearly and so creditably done with it . 
Thus thinking , and perhaps remembering the episode of the whistle , he turned to the open window . 
This was followed by the sudden , clamorous banging of the house door and that again , by rapid and retreating footsteps in the street . 
Challoner sprang into the passage . 
He ran from room to room , upstairs and downstairs and in that old dingy and worm eaten house , he found himself alone . 
We have just had another failure , clockwork thirty hours too soon , with the usual humiliating result . 
We are all scattered , and I could find no one but the SOLEMN ASS who brings you this and the money . 
I would love to see your meeting . 
Ever yours , SHINING EYE . 
Challoner was stricken to the heart . 
At the same time a great and troubled curiosity , and a certain chill of fear , possessed his spirit . 
From the stupor of deep thought into which he had glided with the letter in his hand , he was awakened by the clatter of the bell . 
Escape , and escape at any cost , was the one idea that possessed him . 
Once more the bell was rung , and now with furious and repeated peals . 
The desperate Challoner turned his eyes on every side . 
They fell upon the ladder , and he ran to it , and with strenuous but unavailing effort sought to raise it from the ground . 
At the same time , two heads were dimly visible above the parapet , and he was hailed by a guarded whistle . 
Scarce was the ladder reared to its full length than he had sprung already on the rounds hand over hand , swift as an ape , he scaled the tottering stairway . 
Meanwhile , from below , the note of the bell had been succeeded by the sound of vigorous and redoubling blows . 
Its fall was hailed with many broken cries for the whole of Richard Street was now in high emotion , the people crowding to the windows or clambering on the garden walls . 
'Bedad , observed his guide , 'there was no time to lose . 
Is M'Guire gone , or was it you that whistled ? 'M'Guire is gone , said Challoner . 
The guide now struck a light . 
'Ah , said he , 'this will never do . 
You dare not go upon the streets in such a figure . 
Wait quietly here and I will bring you something decent . 
With that the man was gone , and Challoner , his attention thus rudely awakened , began ruefully to consider the havoc that had been worked in his attire . 
His hat was gone his trousers were cruelly ripped and the best part of one tail of his very elegant frockcoat had been left hanging from the iron crockets of the window . 
This calumnious disguise was crowned and completed by a soft felt hat of the Tyrolese design , and several sizes too small . 
With one haggard glance at the spotted tails of his new coat , he inquired what was to pay for this accoutrement . 
The young man was not loath to take the hint . 
The last train was gone ere , after many deviations , he had reached the terminus . 
With the coming of day , he found in a shy milk shop the means to appease his hunger . 
Here , all day long , he jolted on the bare boards , distressed by heat and continually reawakened from uneasy slumbers . 
SOMERSET'S ADVENTURE THE SUPERFLUOUS MANSION MR . 
PAUL SOMERSET was a young gentleman of a lively and fiery imagination , with very small capacity for action . 
He was one who lived exclusively in dreams and in the future the creature of his own theories , and an actor in his own romances . 
From the cigar divan he proceeded to parade the streets , still heated with the fire of his eloquence , and scouting upon every side for the offer of some fortunate adventure . 
in quest of the confidant , the friend , or the adviser . 
To thousands he must have turned an appealing countenance , and yet not one regarded him . 
He did so , and looked in . 
The suspense began to grow unbearable . 
Twice he cleared his throat , and twice the whole resources of the language failed him . 
His eye , at this point , lighted on the hand . 
It was better to fall by desperate councils than to continue as he was and with one tremulous swoop he pounced on the gloved fingers and drew them to himself . 
But worse was in store . 
The young man dropped his prize had it been possible , he would have bounded from the carriage . 
The lady , meanwhile , lying back upon the cushions , passed on from trill to trill of the most heartfelt , high pitched , clear and fairy sounding merriment . 
'You must not be offended , she said at last , catching an opportunity between two paroxysms . 
Somerset sought in vain to find some form of answer , but his discomfiture had been too recent and complete . 
'And now , MON PREUX , said the old lady , nodding at him with a quaint gaiety , 'you perceive that I am no longer in my first youth . 
You will soon find that I am all the better company for that . 
As she spoke , the maid re entered the apartment with a light but tasteful supper . 
'I fear , madam , said Somerset , 'that my manners have not risen to the height of your preconceived opinion . 
'My dear young man , she replied , 'you were never more mistaken in your life . 
I find you charming , and you may very well have lighted on a fairy godmother . 
'Ah , madam , returned Somerset , 'you have divined my situation . 
'You express yourself very well , replied the old lady , 'and are certainly a droll and curious young man . 
Thereupon the old lady , still fondling the cat upon her lap , proceeded to narrate the following particulars . 
NARRATIVE OF THE SPIRITED OLD LADY I WAS the eldest daughter of the Reverend Bernard Fanshawe , who held a valuable living in the diocese of Bath and Wells . 
Our family , a very large one , was noted for a sprightly and incisive wit , and came of a good old stock where beauty was an heirloom . 
In Christian grace of character we were unhappily deficient . 
the Fanshawe failings were exaggerated to a monstrous and almost laughable degree . 
I stood not alone , however , in the sweetness of my disposition for one other of the family besides myself was free from any violence of character . 
John had been at that time projecting a visit to the metropolis . 
In this I bade him persevere , and promised on the following day to join him at the Tavistock Hotel . 
I walked with good spirits to a town some thirty miles from home , and was set down the next morning in this great city of London . 
But alas ! when I inquired for Mr. Fanshawe , the porter assured me there was no such gentleman among the guests . 
By what channel our secret had leaked out , or what pressure had been brought to bear on the too facile John , I could never fathom . 
I rose under the blow , and found lodgings in the neighbourhood of Euston Road , where , for the first time in my life , I tasted the joys of independence . 
Three days afterwards , an advertisement in the TIMES directed me to the office of a solicitor whom I knew to be in my father's confidence . 
There I was given the promise of a very moderate allowance , and a distinct intimation that I must never look to be received at home . 
I could not but resent so cruel a desertion , and I told the lawyer it was a meeting I desired as little as themselves . 
All went well for several months and , indeed , it was my own fault alone that ended this pleasant and secluded episode of life . 
I have , I must confess , the fatal trick of spoiling my inferiors . 
See , she added , 'that you are able to pay what you owe me for if I do not receive the uttermost farthing , no box of yours shall pass my threshold . 
I was confounded at her audacity , but as a whole quarter's income was due to me , not otherwise affected by the threat . 
Down this street , then , I beheld my stepmother advancing to meet me , and doubtless bound to the very house I had just left . 
I was still so standing , and had not yet fully mastered the turbulence of my emotions , when a voice at my elbow addressed me with a trivial question . 
It was the maid whom my stepmother , with characteristic hardness , had left to await her on the street , while she transacted her business with the family solicitor . 
The girl did not know who I was the opportunity too golden to be lost and I was soon hearing the latest news of my father's rectory and parish . 
It did not surprise me to find that she detested her employers and yet the terms in which she spoke of them were hard to bear , hard to let pass unchallenged . 
My nature is so essentially generous that I can never pause to reason . 
I stood a moment petrified , and then , struck by the drollery of the incident , gave way to peals of laughter . 
'I am a poor man , said he , 'and you must look for nothing farther at my hands . 
The landlady met me at the door . 
'Here , madam , said she , with a curtsey insolently low , 'here is my bill . 
Would it inconvenience you to settle it at once ? 'You shall be paid , madam , said I , 'in the morning , in the proper course . 
And I took the paper with a very high air , but inwardly quaking . 
I had no sooner looked at it than I perceived myself to be lost . 
All evening I sat by the fire considering my situation . 
It was already late at night , and the weather being wet and windy , there were few abroad besides policemen . 
These , on my present mission , I had wit enough to know for enemies and wherever I perceived their moving lanterns , I made haste to turn aside and choose another thoroughfare . 
some traces of the youthful lightness of my figure . 
Even veiled as I then was , I could perceive the gentleman was struck by my appearance and this emboldened me for my adventure . 
If you will raise your veil 'Sir , I interrupted , 'let there be no mistake . 
I ask you , as a gentleman , to serve me , but I offer no reward . 
'That is frank , said he 'but hardly tempting . 
And what , may I inquire , is the nature of the service ? But I knew well enough it was not my interest to tell him on so short an interview . 
'If you will accompany me , said I , 'to a house not far from here , you can see for yourself . 
He promised to obey me and I admitted him into the passage and thence into my sitting room , which was fortunately next the door . 
He took up the candle . 
'And I wish to see your face , said he . 
I turned back my veil without a word , and looked at him with every appearance of resolve that I could summon up . 
For some time he gazed into my face , still holding up the candle . 
'I had thought we might carry them between us to the corner of Euston Road , said I , 'where , even at this late hour , we may still find a cab . 
In this order we made good our retreat from the house , and without the least adventure , drew pretty near to the corner of Euston Road . 
Before a house , where there was a light still burning , my companion paused . 
'Let us here , said he , 'set down our boxes , while we go forward to the end of the street in quest of a cab . 
'There seem to be no cabs about , policeman , said my champion , with affected cheerfulness . 
At last , and after a delay that seemed interminable , a four wheeler appeared lumbering along in the mud , and was instantly hailed by my companion . 
'Just pull up here , will you ? he cried . 
'We have some baggage up the street . 
'Where have these things come from ? asked the policeman , flashing his light full into my champion's face . 
'Why , from that house , of course , replied the young gentleman , hastily shouldering a trunk . 
'For God's sake , whispered my companion , 'tell me where to drive to . 
'Anywhere , I replied with anguish . 
The policeman , I could see , was staggered . 
This neighbourhood , so retired , so aristocratic , was far from what he had expected . 
For all that , he took the number of the cab , and spoke for a few seconds and with a decided manner in the cabman's ear . 
'What can he have said ? I gasped , as soon as the cab had rolled away . 
Let me compliment you on your nerves , he added . 
'I have had , I believe , the most horrible fright of my existence . 
But my nerves , which he so much misjudged , were in so strange a disarray that speech was now become impossible and we made the drive thenceforward in unbroken silence . 
As he spoke he offered me another glass of wine , of which , indeed , I stood in great want , for I was faint , and inclined to be hysterical . 
Then he sat down beside the fire , lit another cigar , and for some time observed me curiously in silence . 
The judgment of the world I have consistently despised , but I had already begun to set a certain value on the good opinion of my entertainer . 
Beginning with a note of pathos , but soon brightening into my habitual vivacity and humour , I rapidly narrated the circumstances of my birth , my flight , and subsequent misfortunes . 
He heard me to an end in silence , gravely smoking . 
'You strangely misinterpret my confidence , was my reply 'and if you had at all appreciated my character , you would understand that I can take no money at your hands . 
'Your landlady will doubtless not be so particular , he returned 'nor do I at all despair of persuading even your unconquerable self . 
I desire you to examine me with critical indulgence . 
My name is Henry Luxmore , Lord Southwark's second son . 
I possess nine thousand a year , the house in which we are now sitting , and seven others in the best neighbourhoods in town . 
I do not believe I am repulsive to the eye , and as for my character , you have seen me under trial . 
'Sir , said I , 'I am prepared to be misjudged but while I continue to accept your hospitality that fact alone should be enough to protect me from insult . 
'Pardon me , said he 'I offer you marriage . 
And leaning back in his chair he replaced his cigar between his lips . 
I own I was confounded by an offer , not only so unprepared , but couched in terms so singular . 
For nearly twenty years I now led a life of almost perfect quiet . 
On my side , whatever else I may have done amiss , as a mother I was above reproach . 
Here , then , was surely every promise for the future here , at last , was a relation in which I might hope to taste repose . 
But it was not to be . 
You will hardly credit me when I inform you that she ran away from home yet such was the case . 
On the death of Mr. Luxmore , I sought oblivion in the details of business . 
I believe I have mentioned that seven mansions , besides this , formed part of Mr. Luxmore's property I have found them seven white elephants . 
The greed of tenants , the dishonesty of solicitors , and the incapacity that sits upon the bench , have combined together to make these houses the burthen of my life . 
And still , against all these odds , I have undissuadably persevered . 
that it occurred to me to make a melancholy pilgrimage to my various houses . 
Four were at that time tenantless and closed , like pillars of salt , commemorating the corruption of the age and the decline of private virtue . 
One more house remained for me to visit , that in which we now are . 
Meanwhile the sight recalled my fancy naturally to the past and yielding to the tender influence of sentiment , I sat down opposite the door upon the garden parapet . 
It drew up before my house , the door of which was immediately opened by one of the men . 
The windows of the dining room were thrown widely open , as though to air it and I saw some of those within laying the table for a meal . 
Plainly , then , guests were expected , and were not expected before night . 
I was at my post by ten . 
The night was clear and quiet the moon rode very high and put the lamps to shame and the shadow below the chestnut was black as ink . 
Time fled eleven struck on all the city clocks and presently after I was aware of the approach of a gentleman of stately and agreeable demeanour . 
He was smoking as he walked his light paletot , which was open , did not conceal his evening clothes and he bore himself with a serious grace that immediately awakened my attention . 
Before the door of this house he took a pass key from his pocket , quietly admitted himself , and disappeared into the lamplit hall . 
He was scarcely gone when I observed another and a much younger man approaching hastily from the opposite side of the square . 
He was almost immediately admitted by the first arrival . 
My curiosity was now broad awake . 
I made myself as small as I could in the very densest of the shadow , and waited for the sequel . 
Nor had I long to wait . 
From the same side of the square a second young man made his appearance , walking slowly and softly , and like the first , muffled to the nose . 
From the dining room there came the report of a champagne cork , and following upon that , the sound of rich and manly laughter . 
The listener took heart of grace , produced a key , unlocked the area gate , shut it noiselessly behind him , and descended the stair . 
Just when his head had reached the level of the pavement , he turned half round and once more raked the square with a suspicious eyeshot . 
The mufflings had fallen lower round his neck the moon shone full upon him and I was startled to observe the pallor and passionate agitation of his face . 
I could remain no longer passive . 
Persuaded that something deadly was afoot , I crossed the roadway and drew near the area railings . 
There was no one below the man must therefore have entered the house , with what purpose I dreaded to imagine . 
I have at no part of my career lacked courage and now , finding the area gate was merely laid to , I pushed it gently open and descended the stairs . 
The kitchen door of the house , like the area gate , was closed but not fastened . 
It flashed upon me that the criminal was thus preparing his escape and the thought , as it confirmed the worst of my suspicions , lent me new resolve . 
I entered the house and being now quite reckless of my life , I shut and locked the door . 
From the dining room above I could hear the pleasant tones of a voice in easy conversation . 
On the ground floor all was not only profoundly silent , but the darkness seemed to weigh upon my eyes . 
Here , then , I stood for some time , having thrust myself uncalled into the utmost peril , and being destitute of any power to help or interfere . 
Creeping still closer , I put my eye to the aperture . 
The man sat within upon a chair , listening , I could see , with the most rapt attention . 
On a table before him he had laid a watch , a pair of steel revolvers , and a bull's eye lantern . 
For one second many contradictory theories and projects whirled together in my head the next , I had slammed the door and turned the key upon the malefactor . 
Surprised at my own decision , I stood and panted , leaning on the wall . 
I promised myself that he should not be disappointed and the better to complete my task , I turned to ascend the stairs . 
The situation , as I groped my way to the first floor , appealed to me suddenly by my strong sense of humour . 
It were strange if I could not manage to extract the matter of amusement from so unusual a situation . 
Behind this dining room , there is a small apartment intended for a library . 
It was to this that I cautiously groped my way and you will see how fortune had exactly served me . 
To this interval I now applied my eye . 
Wax tapers , set in silver candlesticks , shed their chastened brightness on the damask of the tablecloth and the remains of a cold collation of the rarest delicacy . 
The elder of the two , he who had first arrived , was placed directly facing me the other was set on his left hand . 
Both , like the man in the butler's pantry , seemed to be intently listening and on the face of the second I thought I could perceive the marks of fear . 
Oddly enough , however , when they came to speak , the parts were found to be reversed . 
'I assure you , said the elder gentleman , 'I not only heard the slamming of a door , but the sound of very guarded footsteps . 
'Your highness was certainly deceived , replied the other . 
'I am endowed with the acutest hearing , and I can swear that not a mouse has rustled . 
Yet the pallor and contraction of his features were in total discord with the tenor of his words . 
looked at his companion for the least fraction of a second and though nothing shook the easy quiet of his attitude , I could see that he was far from being duped . 
'It is well , said he 'let us dismiss the topic . 
And now , sir , that I have very freely explained the sentiments by which I am directed , let me ask you , according to your promise , to imitate my frankness . 
'I have heard you , replied the other , 'with great interest . 
'With singular patience , said the prince politely . 
'Ay , your highness , and with unlooked for sympathy , returned the young man . 
'I know not how to tell the change that has befallen me . 
You have , I must suppose , a charm , to which even your enemies are subject . 
He looked at the clock on the mantelpiece and visibly blanched . 
'So late ! he cried . 
He suited the action to the words . 
'Do not trifle with my appeal , resumed the young man , in tones that trembled with emotion . 
'It is made at the price of my honour and to the peril of my life . 
'Sir , said the prince , 'I am here upon your honour assure you upon mine that I shall continue to rely upon that safeguard . 
The coffee is ready I must again trouble you , I fear . 
And with a courteous movement of the hand , he seemed to invite his companion to pour out the coffee . 
The unhappy young man rose from his seat . 
'I appeal to you , he cried , 'by every holy sentiment , in mercy to me , if not in pity to yourself , begone before it is too late . 
'Sir , replied the prince , 'I am not readily accessible to fear and if there is one defect to which I must plead guilty , it is that of a curious disposition . 
'Alas , you do not know to what you condemn me , cried the other . 
'But I at least will have no hand in it . 
The prince left his place and came and stood above him , where he lay convulsed upon the carpet . 
'Poor moth ! I heard his highness murmur . 
The prince had turned about upon my entrance , and regarded me certainly with no alarm , but with a profundity of wonder which almost robbed me of my self possession . 
'My dear madam , he cried at last , 'and who the devil are you ? I was already on the floor beside the dying man . 
I had , of course , no idea with what drug he had attempted his life , and I was forced to try him with a variety of antidotes . 
I next plied him with the hot coffee , of which there may have been near upon a quart . 
'Have you no milk ? I inquired . 
'I fear , madam , that milk has been omitted , returned the prince . 
'Salt , then , said I 'salt is a revulsive . 
'And possibly the mustard ? asked his highness , as he offered me the contents of the various salt cellars poured together on a plate . 
'Ah , cried I , 'the thought is excellent ! Mix me about half a pint of mustard , drinkably dilute . 
'There ! I exclaimed , with natural triumph , 'I have saved a life ! 'And yet , madam , returned the prince , 'your mercy may be cruelty disguised . 
Where the honour is lost , it is , at least , superfluous to prolong the life . 
'If you had led a life as changeable as mine , your highness , I replied , 'you would hold a very different opinion . 
For my part , and after whatever extremity of misfortune or disgrace , I should still count to morrow worth a trial . 
'You speak as a lady , madam , said the prince 'and for such you speak the truth . 
The prince sprang for the door by which I had entered but quick as he was , I yet contrived to intercept him . 
'Are you armed ? I cried . 
'No , madam , replied he . 
'You remind me appositely I will take the poker . 
'The man below , said I , 'has two revolvers . 
Would you confront him at such odds ? He paused , as though staggered in his purpose . 
'And yet , madam , said he , 'we cannot continue to remain in ignorance of what has passed . 
'Nay , madam , he replied , smiling , 'for so brave a lady , you surprise me . 
Would you have me , then , send others where I fear to go myself ? 'You are perfectly right , said I , 'and I was entirely wrong . 
The prince , unshaken by horror as he had remained unshaken by alarm , assisted me with the most respectful gallantry to regain the dining room . 
There we found our patient , still , indeed , deadly pale , but vastly recovered and already seated on a chair . 
He held out both his hands with a most pitiful gesture of interrogation . 
'He is dead , said the prince . 
'That oath is all my history . 
To give freedom to posterity I had forsworn my own . 
I must attend upon every signal and soon my father complained of my irregular hours and turned me from his house . 
Behold me , then , alone with conspirators ! Alas ! as the years went on , my illusions left me . 
I had sacrificed all to further that cause in which I still believed and daily I began to grow in doubts if we were advancing it indeed . 
Horrible was the society with which we warred , but our own means were not less horrible . 
These things are not personal to me they are common to all unfortunates in my position . 
'It is not that I was patient . 
I have begged to be released but I knew too much , and I was still refused . 
I have fled ay , and for the time successfully . 
I found a lodging in the Rue St . 
Jacques , almost opposite the Val de Grace . 
Oh ! what an interval of peace was that ! I still dream , at times , that I can hear the note of my neighbour's bird . 
'My money was running out , and it became necessary that I should find employment . 
Scarcely had I been three days upon the search , ere I thought that I was being followed . 
I took up once more the hated burthen of that life once more I was at the call of men whom I despised and hated , while yet I envied and admired them . 
Ay , sir , to that I was condemned I obeyed to continue to live , and lived but to obey . 
'The last charge that was laid upon me was the one which has to night so tragically ended . 
Boldly telling who I was , I was to request from your highness , on behalf of my society , a private audience , where it was designed to murder you . 
If one thing remained to me of my old convictions , it was the hate of kings and when this task was offered me , I took it gladly . 
Alas , sir , you triumphed . 
As we supped , you gained upon my heart . 
Your character , your talents , your designs for our unhappy country , all had been misrepresented . 
I began to forget you were a prince I began , all too feelingly , to remember that you were a man . 
You would not , alas ! and what could I ? Kill you , I could not my heart revolted , my hand turned back from such a deed . 
From such a tragic passage , death , and death alone , could save me and it is no fault of mine if I continue to exist . 
'But you , madam , continued the young man , addressing himself more directly to myself , 'were doubtless born to save the prince and to confound our purposes . 
My life you have prolonged and by turning the key on my companion , you have made me the author of his death . 
'And , sir , said I , 'as this house belongs to me , I will ask you to have the kindness to remove the body . 
You and your conspirators , it appears to me , can hardly in civility do less . 
'It shall be done , said the young man , with a dismal accent . 
I have endless troubles with tenants of the ordinary class and at first applauded my good fortune when I found one of the station of your Master of the Horse . 
I now begin to think otherwise dangers set a siege about great personages and I do not wish my tenement to share these risks . 
Procure me the resiliation of the lease , and I shall feel myself your debtor . 
'I must tell you , madam , replied his highness , 'that Colonel Geraldine is but a cloak for myself and I should be sorry indeed to think myself so unacceptable a tenant . 
'Your highness , said I , 'I have conceived a sincere admiration for your character but on the subject of house property , I cannot allow the interference of my feelings . 
I will , however , to prove to you that there is nothing personal in my request , here solemnly engage my word that I will never put another tenant in this house . 
'Madam , said Florizel , 'you plead your cause too charmingly to be refused . 
Thereupon we all three withdrew . 
The next day , the lease was cancelled nor from that hour to this , though sometimes regretting my engagement , have I suffered a tenant in this house . 
AS soon as the old lady had finished her relation , Somerset made haste to offer her his compliments . 
'Madam , said he , 'your story is not only entertaining but instructive and you have told it with infinite vivacity . 
But the whole tale came home to me and I was the better able to feel for you in your various perplexities , as I am myself of somewhat hasty temper . 
'I do not understand you , said Mrs. Luxmore , with some marks of irritation . 
'You must have strangely misinterpreted what I have told you . 
You fill me with surprise . 
Somerset , alarmed by the old lady's change of tone and manner , hurried to recant . 
'Dear Mrs. Luxmore , said he , 'you certainly misconstrue my remark . 
As a man of somewhat fiery humour , my conscience repeatedly pricked me when I heard what you had suffered at the hands of persons similarly constituted . 
'Oh , very well indeed , replied the old lady 'and a very proper spirit . 
I regret that I have met with it so rarely . 
'But in all this , resumed the young man , 'I perceive nothing that concerns myself . 
'I am about to come to that , she returned . 
'And you have already before you , in the pledge I gave Prince Florizel , one of the elements of the affair . 
The idea was sudden it appealed to me as humorous and I am sure it will cause my relatives , if they should ever hear of it , the keenest possible chagrin . 
Here , then , is the key and when you return at two to morrow afternoon , you will find neither me nor my cats to disturb you in your new possession . 
So saying , the old lady arose , as if to dismiss her visitor but Somerset , looking somewhat blankly on the key , began to protest . 
'Dear Mrs. Luxmore , said he , 'this is a most unusual proposal . 
You know nothing of me , beyond the fact that I displayed both impudence and timidity . 
I may be the worst kind of scoundrel I may sell your furniture 'You may blow up the house with gunpowder , for what I care ! cried Mrs. Luxmore . 
'It is in vain to reason . 
Such is the force of my character that , when I have one idea clearly in my head , I do not care two straws for any side consideration . 
It amuses me to do it , and let that suffice . 
The young man was about to renew his protest , when he observed a sudden and significant change in the old lady's countenance . 
'If I thought you capable of disrespect ! she cried . 
'Madam , said Somerset , with the extreme fervour of asseveration , 'madam , I accept . 
I beg you to understand that I accept with joy and gratitude . 
'Ah well , returned Mrs. Luxmore , 'if I am mistaken , let it pass . 
And now , since all is comfortably settled , I wish you a good night . 
Thereupon , as if to leave him no room for repentance , she hurried Somerset out of the front door , and left him standing , key in hand , upon the pavement . 
The next day , about the hour appointed , the young man found his way to the square , which I will here call Golden Square , though that was not its name . 
What to expect , he knew not for a man may live in dreams , and yet be unprepared for their realisation . 
It was already with a certain pang of surprise that he beheld the mansion , standing in the eye of day , a solid among solids . 
Cats , servant , old lady , the very marks of habitation , like writing on a slate , had been in these few hours obliterated . 
By six in the evening , when Somerset went forth to dine , he was able to look back upon the mansion with a sense of pride and property . 
Four square it stood , of an imposing frontage , and flanked on either side by family hatchments . 
In the course of a few days , the genteel inhabitants of the square began to remark the customs of their neighbour . 
The young man had embraced the art of Raphael , partly from a notion of its ease , partly from an inborn distrust of offices . 
He scorned to bear the yoke of any regular schooling and proceeded to turn one half of the dining room into a studio for the reproduction of still life . 
There he amassed a variety of objects , indiscriminately chosen from the kitchen , the drawing room , and the back garden and there spent his days in smiling assiduity . 
Meantime , the great bulk of empty building overhead lay , like a load , upon his imagination . 
At half past six of a fine July morning , he affixed the bill , and went forth into the square to study the result . 
Thereupon he somewhat relaxed in his devotion to the art of painting . 
'Can there , he thought , 'be anything repellent in myself ? But a candid examination in one of the pier glasses of the drawing room led him to dismiss the fear . 
Something , however , was amiss . 
His vast and accurate calculations on the fly leaves of books , or on the backs of playbills , appeared to have been an idle sacrifice of time . 
This incongruity impressed him deeply and occupied his thoughtful leisure on the balcony and at last it seemed to him that he had detected the error of his method . 
to set forth the charms of an existence somewhat wider in its range or , boldly say , the paradise of the Mohammedan . 
So long did the artist waver between these two views , that , before he arrived at a conclusion , he had finally conceived and completed both designs . 
With the proverbially tender heart of the parent , he found himself unable to sacrifice either of these offsprings of his art and decided to expose them on alternate days . 
'In this way , he thought , 'I shall address myself indifferently to all classes of the world . 
The tossing of a penny decided the only remaining point and the more imaginative canvas received the suffrages of fortune , and appeared first in the window of the mansion . 
As it was , however , when viewed from his favourite point against the garden railings , and with some touch of distance , it caused a pleasurable rising of the artist's heart . 
'I have thrown away , he ejaculated , 'an invaluable motive and this shall be the subject of my first academy picture . 
The fate of neither of these works was equal to its merit . 
The racier of the two cartoons displayed , indeed , no symptom of attractive merit and though it had a certain share of that success called scandalous , failed utterly of its effect . 
On the day , however , of the second appearance of the companion work , a real inquirer did actually present himself before the eyes of Somerset . 
This was a gentlemanly man , with some marks of recent merriment , and his voice under inadequate control . 
'I beg your pardon , said he , 'but what is the meaning of your extraordinary bill ? 'I beg yours , returned Somerset hotly . 
'Its meaning is sufficiently explicit . 
And being now , from dire experience , fearful of ridicule , he was preparing to close the door , when the gentleman thrust his cane into the aperture . 
'Not so fast , I beg of you , said he . 
'If you really let apartments , here is a possible tenant at your door and nothing would give me greater pleasure than to see the accommodation and to learn your terms . 
His heart joyously beating , Somerset admitted the visitor , showed him over the various apartments , and , with some return of his persuasive eloquence , expounded their attractions . 
The gentleman was particularly pleased by the elegant proportions of the drawing room . 
'This , he said , 'would suit me very well . 
What , may I ask , would be your terms a week , for this floor and the one above it ? 'I was thinking , returned Somerset , 'of a hundred pounds . 
'Surely not , exclaimed the gentleman . 
'Well , then , returned Somerset , 'fifty . 
The gentleman regarded him with an air of some amazement . 
'You seem to be strangely elastic in your demands , said he . 
'Really ? said the stranger , looking at him all the while with growing wonder . 
'Without extras , then ? 'I I suppose so , stammered the keeper of the lodging house . 
'Service included ? pursued the gentleman . 
'Do you mean that you expect me to empty your slops ? The gentleman regarded him with a very friendly interest . 
'My dear fellow , said he , 'if you take my advice , you will give up this business . 
And thereupon he resumed his hat and took himself away . 
This smarting disappointment produced a strong effect on the artist of the cartoons and he began with shame to eat up his rosier illusions . 
First one and then the other of his great works was condemned , withdrawn from exhibition , and relegated , as a mere wall picture , to the decoration of the dining room . 
Their place was taken by a replica of the original wafered announcement , to which , in particularly large letters , he had added the pithy rubric 'NO SERVICE . 
Perhaps a week had passed before he was again startled by the note of the knocker . 
A gentleman of a somewhat foreign and somewhat military air , yet closely shaven and wearing a soft hat , desired in the politest terms to visit the apartments . 
a friend , a gentleman in tender health , desirous of a sedate and solitary life , apart from interruptions and the noises of the common lodging house . 
'The unusual clause , he continued , 'in your announcement , particularly struck me . 
This , I said , is the place for Mr. Jones . 
You are yourself , sir , a professional gentleman ? concluded the visitor , looking keenly in Somerset's face . 
'I am an artist , replied the young man lightly . 
'And these , observed the other , taking a side glance through the open door of the dining room , which they were then passing , 'these are some of your works . 
And he again and still more sharply peered into the countenance of the young man . 
Somerset , unable to suppress a blush , made the more haste to lead his visitor upstairs and to display the apartments . 
'Excellent , observed the stranger , as he looked from one of the back windows . 
'Is that a mews behind , sir ? Very good . 
Well , sir see here . 
Somerset had scarcely words in which to clothe his gratitude and joy . 
'Agreed , said the other 'and to spare you trouble , my friend will bring some men with him to make the changes . 
You will find him a retiring inmate , sir receives but few , and rarely leaves the house , except at night . 
'Since I have been in this house , returned Somerset , 'I have myself , unless it were to fetch beer , rarely gone abroad except in the evening . 
But a man , he added , 'must have some amusement . 
An hour was then agreed on the gentleman departed and Somerset sat down to compute in English money the value of the figure named . 
With the approach of dusk , however , his impatience drove him once more to the front balcony . 
The stars were already thickening overhead , when the young man's eyes alighted on a procession of three four wheelers , coasting round the garden railing and bound for the Superfluous Mansion . 
Day followed day and still the young man had never come by speech or sight of his mysterious lodger . 
The doors of the drawing room flat were never open and although Somerset could hear him moving to and fro , the tall man had never quitted the privacy of his apartments . 
The nurse , again , was scarcely a desirable house fellow . 
Since her arrival , the fall of whisky in the young man's private bottle was much accelerated and though never communicative , she was at times unpleasantly familiar . 
When asked about the patient's health , she would dolorously shake her head , and declare that the poor gentleman was in a pitiful condition . 
Yet somehow Somerset had early begun to entertain the notion that his complaint was other than bodily . 
It fell in this way . 
The young landlord was awakened about four in the morning by a noise in the hall . 
While he was still looking , the visitor took his departure and the invalid , having carefully fastened the front door , sprang upstairs without a trace of lassitude . 
The day was destined to be fertile in surprises nor had he long been seated at the easel ere the first of these occurred . 
A cab laden with baggage drew up before the door and Mrs. Luxmore in person rapidly mounted the steps and began to pound upon the knocker . 
Somerset hastened to attend the summons . 
'My dear fellow , she said , with the utmost gaiety , 'here I come dropping from the moon . 
I am delighted to find you faithful and I have no doubt you will be equally pleased to be restored to liberty . 
Somerset could find no words , whether of protest or welcome and the spirited old lady pushed briskly by him and paused on the threshold of the dining room . 
The sight that met her eyes was one well calculated to inspire astonishment . 
'My gracious goodness ! cried the lady of the house and then , turning in wrath on the young man , 'From what rank in life are you sprung ? she demanded . 
'You have the exterior of a gentleman but from the astonishing evidences before me , I should say you can only be a greengrocer's man . 
Pray , gather up your vegetables , and let me see no more of you . 
'Madam , babbled Somerset , 'you promised me a month's warning . 
'That was under a misapprehension , returned the old lady . 
'I now give you warning to leave at once . 
'Madam , said the young man , 'I wish I could and indeed , as far as I am concerned , it might be done . 
But then , my lodger ! 'Your lodger ? echoed Mrs. Luxmore . 
'My lodger why should I deny it ? returned Somerset . 
'He is only by the week . 
The old lady sat down upon a chair . 
'You have a lodger ? you ? she cried . 
'And pray , how did you get him ? 'By advertisement , replied the young man . 
'O madam , I have not lived unobservantly . 
I adopted' his eyes involuntarily shifted to the cartoons 'I adopted every method . 
'Oh , I think you are perfectly delicious ! she cried . 
'I do hope you had them in the window . 
M'Pherson , she continued , crying to her maid , who had been all this time grimly waiting in the hall , 'I lunch with Mr. Somerset . 
Take the cellar key and bring some wine . 
for the continent of Europe . 
She was no sooner gone , than Somerset encountered in the corridor the Irish nurse sober , to all appearance , and yet a prey to singularly strong emotion . 
Somerset , somewhat staring , told what he thought fit of the affair . 
'Is that all ? cried the woman . 
'As God sees you , is that all ? 'My good woman , said the young man , 'I have no idea what you can be driving at . 
Somerset , on his part , returned to the dining room , and with a very thoughtful brow and ruminating many theories , disposed of the remainder of the bottle . 
It was port and port is a wine , sole among its equals and superiors , that can in some degree support the competition of tobacco . 
Sipping , smoking , and theorising , Somerset moved on from suspicion to suspicion , from resolve to resolve , still growing braver and rosier as the bottle ebbed . 
At the same time , he felt convinced that he dwelt under the same roof with secret malefactors and the unregenerate instinct of the chase impelled him to severity . 
The bottle had run low the summer sun had finally withdrawn and at the same moment , night and the pangs of hunger recalled him from his dreams . 
He went forth , and dined in the Criterion a dinner in consonance , not so much with his purse , as with the admirable wine he had discussed . 
What with one thing and another , it was long past midnight when he returned home . 
This person was carrying on one shoulder a black portmanteau , seemingly of considerable weight . 
'What in Heaven's name ails you ? gasped the young man as soon as he could find words and utterance . 
'Have you a drop of brandy ? returned the other . 
Somerset retired to bed but not to sleep . 
The hours went heavily by . 
He hailed her coming , then , with pleasant feelings , and moved a little nearer to the window to enjoy the sight . 
, 'because , she added , 'if you are , I should like to see some of the other rooms . 
Somerset told her he was under an engagement to receive no other lodgers but she assured him that would be no matter , as these were friends of Mr. Jones's . 
'And , she continued , moving suddenly to the dining room door , 'let us begin here . 
Somerset was too late to prevent her entering , and perhaps he lacked the courage to essay . 
'Ah ! she cried , 'how changed it is ! 'Madam , cried the young man , 'since your entrance , it is I who have the right to say so . 
She gazed upon the cartoons with sparkling eyes , and a heightened colour , and in a somewhat breathless voice , expressed a high opinion of their merits . 
She praised the effective disposition of the rockery , and in the bedroom , of which Somerset had vainly endeavoured to defend the entry , she fairly broke forth in admiration . 
'For indeed , said she , 'what with all these clocks and chemicals , without a drop of the creature life would be impossible entirely . 
And you seen yourself that even M'Guire was glad to beg for it . 
And even himself , when he is downhearted with all these cruel disappointments , though as temperate a man as any child , will be sometimes crying for a glass of it . 
And I'll thank you for a thimbleful to settle what I got . 
Soon after , she began with tears to narrate the deathbed dispositions and lament the trifling assets of her husband . 
Somerset mounted at once to the first story , and opened the door of the drawing room , which was brilliantly lit by several lamps . 
It seemed to himself that he must have entered , without observing the transition , into the adjoining house . 
Presently from these more specious changes , his eye condescended to the many curious objects with which the floor was littered . 
The back drawing room , to which Somerset proceeded , had likewise undergone a change . 
It was transformed to the exact appearance of a common lodging house bedroom a bed with green curtains occupied one corner and the window was blocked by the regulation table and mirror . 
The door of a small closet here attracted the young man's attention and striking a vesta , he opened it and entered . 
In a flash his mind reverted to the advertisement in the STANDARD newspaper . 
The great height of his lodger , the disproportionate breadth of his shoulders , and the strange particulars of his instalment , all pointed to the same conclusion . 
The vesta had now burned to his fingers and taking the coat upon his arm , Somerset hastily returned to the lighted drawing room . 
There , with a mixture of fear and admiration , he pored upon its goodly proportions and the regularity and softness of the pile . 
The sight of a large pier glass put another fancy in his head . 
He donned the fur coat and standing before the mirror in an attitude suggestive of a Russian prince , he thrust his hands into the ample pockets . 
There his fingers encountered a folded journal . 
He drew it out , and recognised the type and paper of the STANDARD and at the same instant , his eyes alighted on the offer of two hundred pounds . 
Plainly then , his lodger , now no longer mysterious , had laid aside his coat on the very day of the appearance of the advertisement . 
'You are right , he said . 
'It is for me the blood money is offered . 
And now what will you do ? It was a question to which Somerset was far from being able to reply . 
Taken as he was at unawares , masquerading in the man's own coat , and surrounded by a whole arsenal of diabolical explosives , the keeper of the lodging house was silenced . 
'Yes , resumed the other , 'I am he . 
I am that man , whom with impotent hate and fear , they still hunt from den to den , from disguise to disguise . 
You can now complete the cycle of your ignominious acts , by what will be at once the simplest , the safest , and the most remunerative . 
Take off my coat , sir which but cumbers you . 
At these words , the speaker , with a very open , smiling countenance , like a forgiving father , offered Somerset his hand . 
It was not in the young man's nature to refuse forgiveness or dissect generosity . 
He instantly , and almost without thought , accepted the proffered grasp . 
How you came here , I care not enough that you are here as my guest . 
Sit ye down and let us , with your good permission , improve acquaintance over a glass of excellent whisky . 
So speaking , he produced glasses and a bottle and the pair pledged each other in silence . 
'Confess , observed the smiling host , 'you were surprised at the appearance of the room . 
'I was indeed , said Somerset 'nor can I imagine the purpose of these changes . 
'These , replied the conspirator , 'are the devices by which I continue to exist . 
, few lives are more romantic than that of the obscure individual now addressing you . 
Mine is an anonymous , infernal glory . 
By infamous means , I work towards my bright purpose . 
Somerset , glass in hand , contemplated the strange fanatic before him , and listened to his heated rhapsody , with indescribable bewilderment . 
He looked him in the face with curious particularity saw there the marks of education and wondered the more profoundly . 
But , he continued , rising to his feet , 'by night , and among my desperate followers , I am the redoubted Zero . 
Somerset was unacquainted with the name , but he politely expressed surprise and gratification . 
'I am to understand , he continued , 'that , under this alias , you follow the profession of a dynamiter ? The plotter had resumed his seat and now replenished the glasses . 
'I do , he said . 
'I can imagine , observed Somerset , 'that , from the sweeping consequences looked for , the career is not devoid of interest . 
You have , besides , some of the entertainment of the game of hide and seek . 
'You speak , indeed , returned the plotter , with some evidence of warmth , 'you speak , indeed , most ignorantly . 
'And when you speak of ease , pursued Zero , 'in this age of scientific studies , you fill me with surprise . 
On the contrary , you cannot picture to yourself the bloodshot vigils and the staggering disappointments of a life like mine . 
But what with the loss of plant and the almost insuperable scientific difficulties of the task , our friends in France are almost ready to desert the chosen medium . 
I recognise its elegance but , sir , I have something of the poet in my nature something , possibly , of the tribune . 
more popular method , of the explosive bomb . 
Yes , he cried , with unshaken hope , 'I will still continue , and , I feel it in my bosom , I shall yet succeed . 
'Two things I remark , said Somerset . 
'The first somewhat staggers me . 
Have you , then in all this course of life , which you have sketched so vividly have you not once succeeded ? 'Pardon me , said Zero . 
'I have had one success . 
You behold in me the author of the outrage of Red Lion Court . 
'But if I remember right , objected Somerset , 'the thing was a FIASCO . 
A scavenger's barrow and some copies of the WEEKLY BUDGET these were the only victims . 
'You will pardon me again , returned Zero with positive asperity 'a child was injured . 
'And that fitly brings me to my second point , said Somerset . 
'For I observed you to employ the word indiscriminate . 
represent the very acme and top pin point of indiscriminate , and , pardon me , of ineffectual reprisal . 
'Did I employ the word ? asked Zero . 
'Well , I will not defend it . 
But for efficiency , you touch on graver matters and before entering upon so vast a subject , permit me once more to fill our glasses . 
Disputation is dry work , he added , with a charming gaiety of manner . 
Once more accordingly the pair pledged each other in a stalwart grog and Zero , leaning back with an air of some complacency , proceeded more largely to develop his opinions . 
'The indiscriminate ? he began . 
'War , my dear sir , is indiscriminate . 
War spares not the child it spares not the barrow of the harmless scavenger . 
'You are then , replied Zero , 'in a position to grasp my argument . 
Our appeal is to the body of the people it is these that we would touch and interest . 
Now , sir , have you observed the English housemaid ? 'I should think I had , cried Somerset . 
'From a man of taste and a votary of art , I had expected it , returned the conspirator politely . 
'A type apart a very charming figure and thoroughly adapted to our ends . 
Not that I would be understood to despise the nurse . 
For the child is a very interesting feature I have long since marked out the child as the sensitive point in society . 
He wagged his head , with a wise , pensive smile . 
And Zero , leaning back in his chair , narrated the following simple tale . 
ZERO'S TALE OF THE EXPLOSIVE BOMB . 
I DINED by appointment with one of our most trusted agents , in a private chamber at St . 
You have seen the man it was M'Guire , the most chivalrous of creatures , but not himself expert in our contrivances . 
Hence the necessity of our meeting for I need not remind you what enormous issues depend upon the nice adjustment of the engine . 
But I was not to be moved , made a strong appeal to his patriotism , gave him a good glass of whisky , and despatched him on his glorious errand . 
As M'Guire drew near his heart was inflamed by the most noble sentiment of triumph . 
Suddenly his eye alighted on the burly form of a policeman , standing hard by the effigy in an attitude of watch . 
M'Guire was no child in these affairs he instantly divined one of the plots of the Machiavellian Gladstone . 
But for this purely accidental circumstance , England had long ago been an historical expression . 
On the receipt of such a letter , the Government lay a trap for their adversaries , and surround the threatened spot with hirelings . 
My blood sometimes boils in my veins , when I consider the case of those who sell themselves for money in such a cause . 
The scheme must be delayed . 
He stood with his bag on his arm , pretending to survey the front of the Alhambra , when there flashed into his mind a thought to appal the bravest . 
It is probable he fainted . 
When he came to himself , a constable had him by the arm . 
'My God ! he cried . 
'You seem to be unwell , sir , said the hireling . 
A thought struck him in Green Street , like a dart through his liver suppose it were the hour already . 
He stopped as though he had been shot , and plucked his watch out . 
But so brief were these intervals of vision , and so violently did the watch vibrate in his hands , that it was impossible to distinguish the numbers on the dial . 
He covered his eyes for a few seconds and in that space , it seemed to him that he had fallen to be a man of ninety . 
When he looked again , the watch plate had grown legible he had twenty minutes . 
She sang , too and something in her accent recalling him to the past , produced a sudden clearness in his mind . 
Almost at the same moment a woman appeared upon the threshold of a neighbouring shop , and called upon the child in anger . 
'Come here , colleen , she said , 'and don't be plaguing the poor old gentleman ! With that she re entered the house , and the child followed her , sobbing aloud . 
With the loss of this hope M'Guire's reason swooned within him . 
When next he awoke to consciousness , he was standing before St . 
'I am afraid you are very ill , sir , observed a woman , stopping and gazing hard in his face . 
'Can I do anything to help you ? 'Ill ? said M'Guire . 
'O God ! And then , recovering some shadow of his self command , 'Chronic , madam , said he 'a long course of the dumb ague . 
But since you are so compassionate an errand that I lack the strength to carry out , he gasped 'this bag to Portman Square . 
I suppose he had expressed himself with too much energy of voice for the woman was plainly taken with a certain fear of him . 
'Poor gentleman ! said she . 
'If I were you , I would go home . 
And she left him standing there in his distress . 
But I wander from M'Guire . 
From this dread glance into the past and future , his thoughts returned at a bound upon the present . 
It seemed too bright a thing to be believed . 
He glanced at the church clock and sure enough , it marked an hour four minutes faster than the watch . 
Of all that he endured , M'Guire declares that pang was the most desolate . 
James's Hall on this so promising enterprise at any moment , then , the blow was to be looked for . 
He passed him by , and twice patrolled the entry , scouting for the barest chance but the man had faced about and continued to observe him curiously . 
M'Guire reissued from the entry , still followed by the wondering eyes of the man in the sleeved waistcoat . 
He once more consulted his watch there were but fourteen minutes left to him . 
And yet this mirth seemed to belong to things external and within , like a black and leaden heavy kernel , he was conscious of the weight upon his soul . 
And still the warmth seemed to increase and to become more genial . 
He would have given years , had he possessed them , for a glass of spirits but time failed , and he must deny himself this last indulgence . 
He felt in one pocket then in another . 
The most crushing seizure of despair descended on his soul and struck into abject dumbness , he stared upon the driver . 
He had not one penny . 
'Hillo , said the driver , 'don't seem well . 
'Lost my money , said M'Guire , in tones so faint and strange that they surprised his hearing . 
The man looked through the trap . 
'I dessay , said he 'you've left your bag . 
M'Guire half unconsciously fetched it out and looking on that black continent at arm's length , withered inwardly and felt his features sharpen as with mortal sickness . 
'This is not mine , said he . 
'Your last fare must have left it . 
You had better take it to the station . 
'Anything else ? What's IN your bag ? Open it , and let me see . 
'No , no , returned M'Guire . 
'Oh no , not that . 
It's a surprise it's prepared expressly a surprise for honest cabmen . 
'No , you don't , said the man , alighting from his perch , and coming very close to the unhappy patriot . 
'You're either going to pay my fare , or get in again and drive to the office . 
It was at this supreme hour of his distress , that M'Guire spied the stout figure of one Godall , a tobacconist of Rupert Street , drawing near along the Embankment . 
'Thank God ! he cried . 
'Here comes a friend of mine . 
And he dashed to meet the tradesman . 
'Sir , said he , 'Mr . 
Godall , I have dealt with you you doubtless know my face calamities for which I cannot blame myself have overwhelmed me . 
Here , sir , is a sovereign which I very willingly advance to you , on the single condition that you shave your chin . 
He was plucked from a watery grave , it is believed , by the hands of Mr. Godall . 
SOMERSET in vain strove to attach a meaning to these words . 
'Dear me , observed Zero , 'I find you very temperate . 
But I will not be oppressive . 
True , he was caught in a situation that might have tested the aplomb of Talleyrand . 
That was perhaps a palliation but it was no excuse . 
For so wholesale a capitulation of principle , for such a fall into criminal familiarity , no excuse indeed was possible nor any remedy , but to withdraw at once from the relation . 
As soon as he was dressed , he hurried upstairs , determined on a rupture . 
Zero hailed him with the warmth of an old friend . 
'Come in , he cried , 'dear Mr. Somerset ! Come in , sit down , and , without ceremony , join me at my morning meal . 
'Sir , said Somerset , 'you must permit me first to disengage my honour . 
'My dear fellow , replied Zero , with an air of some complacency , 'I am well accustomed to these human weaknesses . 
Disgust ? I have felt it myself it speedily wears off . 
I think none the worse , I think the more of you , for this engaging frankness . 
when he was taken into the confidence of the thief . 
'At least , cried Somerset , 'I can , and do , order you to leave this house . 
'Ah ! cried the plotter , 'but there I fail to follow you . 
No , no , dear sir here I am , and here I propose to stay . 
'I repeat , cried Somerset , beside himself with a sense of his own weakness , 'I repeat that I give you warning . 
I am the master of this house and I emphatically give you warning . 
'A week's warning ? said the imperturbable conspirator . 
'Very well we will talk of it a week from now . 
That is arranged and in the meanwhile , I observe my breakfast growing cold . 
Hang me , if you will , to morrow but to day show yourself divested of the scruples of the burgess , and sit down pleasantly to share my meal . 
He threw up his hands with a gesture of despair , and took the seat to which the conspirator invited him . 
The meal was excellent the host not only affable , but primed with curious information . 
He seemed , indeed , like one who had too long endured the torture of silence , to exult in the most wholesale disclosures . 
His fellow conspirators , the dynamiter handsomely explained , as they were unacquainted with the sterling qualities of the young man , would be alarmed at the sight of a strange face . 
As soon as he was alone , Somerset fell back upon the humour of the morning . 
A powder magazine seemed a secure smoking room alongside of the Superfluous Mansion . 
He sought refuge in flight , in locomotion , in the flowing bowl . 
It was on the stroke of noon when he awoke . 
He sneaked into the hall and stole on tiptoe to the cupboard where he kept his money . 
Yet half a minute , he told himself , and he would be free for days from his obseding lodger , and might decide at leisure on the course he should pursue . 
But fate had otherwise designed there came a tap at the door and Zero entered . 
'Have I caught you ? he cried , with innocent gaiety . 
'Dear fellow , I was growing quite impatient . 
And on the speaker's somewhat stolid face , there came a glow of genuine affection . 
'I am so long unused to have a friend , he continued , 'that I begin to be afraid I may prove jealous . 
And he wrung the hand of his landlord . 
Somerset was , of all men , least fit to deal with such a greeting . 
To reject these kind advances was beyond his strength . 
That he could not return cordiality for cordiality , was already almost more than he could carry . 
That inequality between kind sentiments which , to generous characters , will always seem to be a sort of guilt , oppressed him to the ground and he stammered vague and lying words . 
To doubt of your forgiveness were to repeat my sin . 
Come , then dinner waits join me again and tell me your adventures of the night . 
Kindness still sealed the lips of Somerset and he suffered himself once more to be set down to table with his innocent and criminal acquaintance . 
'You saw her ? said Zero . 
Lake , Fonblanque , de Marly , Valdevia , such are some of the names that she employs her true name but there , perhaps , I go too far . 
Suffice it , that it is to her I owe my present lodging , and , dear Somerset , the pleasure of your acquaintance . 
It appears she knew the house . 
You see dear fellow , I make no concealment all that you can care to hear , I tell you openly . 
'For God's sake , cried the wretched Somerset , 'hold your tongue ! You cannot imagine how you torture me ! A shade of serious discomposure crossed the open countenance of Zero . 
'There are times , he said , 'when I begin to fancy that you do not like me . 
These are grave thoughts , and you may judge my need of your delightful company . 
Innocent prattler , you relieve the weight of my concerns . 
The speaker pushed away his plate , and rose from table . 
'Follow me , said he , 'follow me . 
My mood is on I must have air , I must behold the plain of battle . 
Instantly thereafter , you shall behold the flames break forth . 
Ay , he cried , stretching forth his hand , 'ay , that will be a day of retribution . 
Then shall the pallid constable flee side by side with the detected thief . 
Here he began to come to himself , wiped his brow , and at length , seizing Somerset's hand in both of his , began to utter his acknowledgments . 
'This seals it , said he . 
'Ours is a life and death connection . 
Lend me , I beseech you , lend me your arm as far as my apartment . 
'Good heavens , dear Somerset , he cried , 'what ails you ? Let me offer you a touch of spirits . 
But Somerset had fallen below the reach of this material comfort . 
'Let me be , he said . 
'I am lost you have caught me in the toils . 
Up to this moment , I have lived all my life in the most reckless manner , and done exactly what I pleased , with the most perfect innocence . 
Jones , said Somerset , 'it is in vain to argue . 
I boast myself a total disbeliever , not only in revealed religion , but in the data , method , and conclusions of the whole of ethics . 
You pain , you wound me , Somerset . 
'Give me a match ! cried Somerset wildly . 
I look on you with loathing , like a toad my flesh creeps with physical repulsion my soul revolts against the sight of you . 
'Alas ! he sobbed , 'this snaps the last link that bound me to humanity . 
My friend disowns he insults me . 
Somerset stood for an instant staggered by this sudden change of front . 
The next moment , with a despairing gesture , he fled from the room and from the house . 
Was he an agnostic ? had he a right to act ? Away with such nonsense , and let Zero perish ! ran his thoughts . 
Ay , but crime ? A figment , too , which his enfranchised intellect discarded . 
He who had chosen the broad , daylit , unencumbered paths of universal scepticism , found himself still the bondslave of honour . 
The dawn crept among the sleeping villas and over the smokeless fields of city and still the unfortunate sceptic sobbed over his fall from consistency . 
At length , he rose and took the rising sun to witness . 
Fast as he went , being winged by this resolution , it was already well on in the morning when he came in sight of the Superfluous Mansion . 
Tripping down the steps , was the young lady of the various aliases and he was surprised to see upon her countenance the marks of anger and concern . 
'Madam , he began , yielding to impulse and with no clear knowledge of what he was to add . 
Here then , we step aside a moment from following the fortunes of Somerset , and proceed to relate the strange and romantic episode of THE BROWN BOX . 
DESBOROUGH'S ADVENTURE THE BROWN BOX MR . 
It was an old , sweet , seasoned briar root , glossy and dark with long employment , and justly dear to his fancy . 
'Senorito , said she , and there was a rich thrill in her voice , like an organ note , 'Senorito , you are in difficulties . 
Suffer me to come to your assistance . 
With the words , she took the paper and tobacco from his unresisting hands and with a facility that , in Desborough's eyes , seemed magical , rolled and presented him a cigarette . 
He took it , still seated , still without a word staring with all his eyes upon that apparition . 
'You do not like my cigarrito , Senor ? she asked . 
'Yet it is better made than yours . 
At that she laughed , and her laughter trilled in his ear like music but the next moment her face fell . 
'I see , she cried . 
'It is my manner that repels you . 
I am too constrained , too cold . 
I am not , she added , with a more engaging air , 'I am not the simple English maiden I appear . 
'Oh ! murmured Harry , filled with inexpressible thoughts . 
'In my own dear land , she pursued , 'things are differently ordered . 
There , I must own , a girl is bound by many and rigorous restrictions little is permitted her she learns to be distant , she learns to appear forbidding . 
You must not judge me yet awhile I shall end by conquering this stiffness , I shall end by growing English . 
Do I speak the language well ? 'Perfectly oh , perfectly ! said Harry , with a fervency of conviction worthy of a graver subject . 
'Ah , then , she said , 'I shall soon learn English blood ran in my father's veins and I have had the advantage of some training in your expressive tongue . 
If I speak already without accent , with my thorough English appearance , there is nothing left to change except my manners . 
'Oh no , said Desborough . 
'Oh pray not ! I madam 'I am , interrupted the lady , 'the Senorita Teresa Valdevia . 
The evening air grows chill . 
And before Harry could stammer out a word , she had disappeared into her room . 
He stood transfixed , the cigarette still unlighted in his hand . 
His thoughts had soared above tobacco , and still recalled and beautified the image of his new acquaintance . 
Her voice re echoed in his memory her eyes , of which he could not tell the colour , haunted his soul . 
The clouds had risen at her coming , and he beheld a new created world . 
What she was , he could not fancy , but he adored her . 
Her age , he durst not estimate fearing to find her older than himself , and thinking sacrilege to couple that fair favour with the thought of mortal changes . 
As for her character , beauty to the young is always good . 
In one hand she held a packet . 
'Will you try , she said , 'some of my father's tobacco from dear Cuba ? There , as I suppose you know , all smoke , ladies as well as gentlemen . 
So you need not fear to annoy me . 
The fragrance will remind me of home . 
My home , Senor , was by the sea . 
And as she uttered these few words , Desborough , for the first time in his life , realised the poetry of the great deep . 
Do not seek to please me by copying the graces of my countrymen . 
Be yourself the frank , kindly , honest English gentleman that I have heard of since my childhood and still longed to meet . 
Harry , much bewildered , and far from clear as to the manners of the Cuban gentlemen , strenuously disclaimed the thought of plagiarism . 
'Your national seriousness of bearing best becomes you , Senor , said the lady . 
'See ! marking a line with her dainty , slippered foot , 'thus far it shall be common ground there , at my window sill , begins the scientific frontier . 
You will find me an apt scholar , for my heart is in the task . 
She laid her hand lightly upon Harry's arm , and looked into his eyes . 
Presently the window opened , and the fair Cuban , with a smile imperfectly dissembled , appeared upon the sill . 
'Come here , she said , 'here , beside my window . 
The small verandah gives a belt of shelter . 
And she graciously handed him a folding chair . 
As he sat down , visibly aglow with shyness and delight , a certain bulkiness in his pocket reminded him that he was not come empty handed . 
'I have taken the liberty , said he , 'of bringing you a little book . 
I thought of you , when I observed it on the stall , because I saw it was in Spanish . 
The man assured me it was by one of the best authors , and quite proper . 
As he spoke , he placed the little volume in her hand . 
Her eyes fell as she turned the pages , and a flush rose and died again upon her cheeks , as deep as it was fleeting . 
'You are angry , he cried in agony . 
'No , Senor , it is not that , returned the lady . 
'I and a flood of colour once more mounted to her brow 'I am confused and ashamed because I have deceived you . 
'You ! She pushed the window still more widely open with a large and noble gesture . 
'Enter , Senor , said she . 
It was with a sentiment bordering on devotion , that Harry passed the window . 
A semi barbarous delight in form and colour had presided over the studied disorder of the room in which he found himself . 
STORY OF THE FAIR CUBAN I AM not what I seem . 
My father drew his descent , on the one hand , from grandees of Spain , and on the other , through the maternal line , from the patriot Bruce . 
My mother , too , was the descendant of a line of kings but , alas ! these kings were African . 
The place where I was born and passed my days was an isle set in the Caribbean Sea , some half hour's rowing from the coasts of Cuba . 
It was steep , rugged , and , except for my father's family and plantation , uninhabited and left to nature . 
The house , a low building surrounded by spacious verandahs , stood upon a rise of ground and looked across the sea to Cuba . 
The breezes blew about it gratefully , fanned us as we lay swinging in our silken hammocks , and tossed the boughs and flowers of the magnolia . 
Behind and to the left , the quarter of the negroes and the waving fields of the plantation covered an eighth part of the surface of the isle . 
Into the recesses of that jungle , none could penetrate but those of African descent an invisible , unconquerable foe lay there in wait for the European and the air was death . 
I left my room a little after day , for in that warm climate all are early risers , and found not a servant to attend upon my wants . 
Even then , even when I was amongst them , not one turned or paid the least regard to my arrival . 
In the meanwhile the woman , applying a pair of glasses to her eyes , studied me with insolent particularity from head to foot . 
'Young woman , said she , at last , 'I have had a great experience in refractory servants , and take a pride in breaking them . 
You really tempt me and if I had not other affairs , and these of more importance , on my hand , I should certainly buy you at your father's sale . 
'Madam I began , but my voice failed me . 
'Is it possible that you do not know your position ? she returned , with a hateful laugh . 
'How comical ! Positively , I must buy her . 
Accomplishments , I suppose ? she added , turning to the servants . 
Several assured her that the young mistress had been brought up like any lady , for so it seemed in their inexperience . 
And she smiled at me with a savoury lust of cruelty upon her face . 
At this , I found expression . 
Calling by name upon the servants , I bade them turn this woman from the house , fetch her to the boat , and set her back upon the mainland . 
I looked again at Madam Mendizabal . 
I ran I knew not where , but it was towards the beach . 
As I went , my head whirled so strange , so sudden , were these events and insults . 
Horrible rites , it is supposed , cement her empire the rites of Hoodoo . 
'Fall ? Was there any truth , then , in her words ? Am I O father , tell me plain I can bear anything but this suspense . 
'I will tell you , he replied , with merciful bluntness . 
You will now understand the heaviness with which your mother's memory hangs about my neck . 
I cried out aloud , in pity for my parents and in seeking to console the survivor , I forgot myself . 
'It matters not , resumed my father . 
'What I have left undone can never be repaired , and I must bear the penalty of my remorse . 
But , Teresa , with so cutting a reminder of the evils of delay , I set myself at once to do what was still possible to liberate yourself . 
I began to break forth in thanks , but he checked me with a sombre roughness . 
Teresa , I was insolvent . 
'What matters that ? I cried . 
'What matters poverty , if we be left together with our love and sacred memories ? 'You do not comprehend , he said gloomily . 
You are a chattel a marketable thing and worth heavens , that I should say such words ! worth money . 
I caught his hand in mine , kissed it , and moaned in pity for myself , in sympathy for my father . 
'How I have toiled , he continued , 'how I have dared and striven to repair my losses , Heaven has beheld and will remember . 
Its blessing was denied to my endeavours , or , as I please myself by thinking , but delayed to descend upon my daughter's head . 
We have not many hours before us . 
Off the north coast of our isle , by strange good fortune , an English yacht has for some days been hovering . 
It belongs to Sir George Greville , whom I slightly know , to whom ere now I have rendered unusual services , and who will not refuse to help in our escape . 
Or if he did , if his gratitude were in default , I have the power to force him . 
'So he declares , returned my father 'but the strange gift I have received from nature , easily transpierced the fable . 
Thus put upon the scent , I made inquiries . 
Oh , he is cunning , but I was cunninger than he . 
Meantime , I would conceal this bag I would , before all things , be seen to arrive at the house with empty hands a blabbing slave might else undo us . 
I could not restrain a cry of admiration . 
'Even in your ignorant eyes , pursued my father , 'they command respect . 
Yet what are they but pebbles , passive to the tool , cold as death ? Ingrate ! he cried . 
How , then , should I cherish them ! and why do I delay to place them beyond reach ! Teresa , follow me . 
For some while he skirted , with attentive eyes , the margin of the thicket . 
Then , seeming to recognise some mark , for his countenance became immediately lightened of a load of thought , he paused and addressed me . 
'Here , said he , 'is the entrance of the secret path that I have mentioned , and here you shall await me . 
I but pass some hundreds of yards into the swamp to bury my poor treasure as soon as that is safe , I will return . 
His face was of a singular dusky red and yet for all the heat of the tropical noon , he did not seem to sweat . 
'You are tired , I cried , springing to meet him . 
'I am tired , he replied 'the air in that jungle stifles one my eyes , besides , have grown accustomed to its gloom , and the strong sunshine pierces them like knives . 
A moment , Teresa , give me but a moment . 
All shall yet be well . 
But come , let us to the house it is time to eat against our journey of the night to eat and then to sleep , my poor Teresa then to sleep . 
And he looked upon me out of bloodshot eyes , shaking his head as if in pity . 
'How is this ? he cried , in a sharp , unhuman voice . 
Then suddenly he raised both hands to his temples , cried out , 'My head , my head ! and reeled and fell against the wall . 
I knew too well what it must be . 
I turned and begged the servants to relieve him . 
But they , with one accord , denied the possibility of hope the master had gone into the swamp , they said , the master must die all help was idle . 
Why should I dwell upon his sufferings ? I had him carried to a bed , and watched beside him . 
The sun had gone down , the darkness had fallen , when I perceived that I was alone on this unhappy earth . 
The poor soul was indeed devotedly attached to me and it was with streaming tears that she broke to me the import of her coming . 
She looks at me , mistress , till my blood turns ice . 
That is the first I had to say and now for the second do , pray , for Heaven's sake , bear in mind that you are no longer the poor Senor's daughter . 
He is gone , dear gentleman and now you are no more than a common slave girl like myself . 
'Go , said I. 'Go , Cora . 
I thank you for your kind intentions . 
Leave me alone one moment with my dead father and tell this man that I will come at once . 
She went and I , turning to the bed of death , addressed to those deaf ears the last appeal and defence of my beleaguered innocence . 
'Father , I said , 'it was your last thought , even in the pangs of dissolution , that your daughter should escape disgrace . 
But the sparkle that came into his eye as he observed me enter , warned me to expect the worst . 
'Is this your late mistress ? he inquired of the slaves and when he had learnt it was so , instantly dismissed them . 
'Now , my dear , said he , 'I am a plain man none of your damned Spaniards , but a true blue , hard working , honest Englishman . 
'Thank you , sir , said I , and curtsied very smartly as I had seen the servants . 
I like your looks , he added , calling me by my name , which he scandalously mispronounced . 
'Is your hair all your own ? he then inquired with a certain sharpness , and coming up to me , as though I were a horse , he grossly satisfied his doubts . 
I was all one flame from head to foot , but I contained my righteous anger and submitted . 
'That is very well , he continued , chucking me good humouredly under the chin . 
'You will have no cause to regret coming to old Caulder , eh ? But that is by the way . 
What is more to the point is this your late master was a most dishonest rogue , and levanted with some valuable property that belonged of rights to me . 
I am an honest man myself , and expect the same in my servants . 
'Do you mean the jewels ? said I , sinking my voice into a whisper . 
'That is just precisely what I do , said he , and chuckled . 
'Hush ! said I. 'Hush ? he repeated . 
'And why hush ? I am on my own place , I would have you to know , and surrounded by my own lawful servants . 
'Are the officers gone ? I asked and oh ! how my hopes hung upon the answer ! 'They are , said he , looking somewhat disconcerted . 
'Why do you ask ? 'I wish you had kept them , I answered , solemnly enough , although my heart at that same moment leaped with exultation . 
'Master , I must not conceal from you the truth . 
The servants on this estate are in a dangerous condition , and mutiny has long been brewing . 
'Why , he cried , 'I never saw a milder looking lot of niggers in my life . 
But for all that he turned somewhat pale . 
But what in fortune's name can be her errand here ? 'The jewels , I replied . 
'She has seen them ! he cried , and I could see by his face , that my audacity was justified by its success . 
I caught his hand in mine . 
'My master , said I , 'I am now yours it is my duty , it should be my pleasure , to defend your interests and life . 
Hear my advice , then and , I conjure you , be guided by my prudence . 
From a shed in the garden , I took a pick and shovel and thence , by devious paths among the magnolias , led my master to the entrance of the swamp . 
I walked first , carrying , as I was now in duty bound , the tools , and glancing continually behind me , lest we should be spied upon and followed . 
Were they for him ? I asked myself . 
The path on which we now entered was cut , like a tunnel , through the living jungle . 
We had gone but a little way in , when Mr. Caulder was seized with sudden nausea , and must sit down a moment on the path . 
My heart yearned , as I beheld him and I seriously begged the doomed mortal to return upon his steps . 
What were a few jewels in the scales with life ? I asked . 
'Master , said I , 'you look pale , deathly pale your pallor fills me with dread . 
Your eyes are bloodshot they are red like the rubies that we seek . 
'Wench , he cried , 'look before you look at your steps . 
I declare to Heaven , if you annoy me once again by looking back , I shall remind you of the change in your position . 
A little after , I observed a worm upon the ground , and told , in a whisper , that its touch was death . 
'The coffin snake , said I , 'the snake that dogs its victim like a hound . 
But he was not to be dissuaded . 
'I am an old traveller , said he . 
'This is a foul jungle indeed but we shall soon be at an end . 
'What did I tell you ? We are past the worst . 
'Are you mad , girl ? he cried . 
'I bid you be silent and lead on . 
Again I looked upon him , half relenting and at that he raised the stick that was in his hand and cruelly struck me on the face . 
'Lead on ! he cried again . 
Something , I know not what , fell at that moment with a dull plunge in the waters of the lagoon , and I told myself it was my pity that had fallen . 
On the farther side , to which we now hastily scrambled , the wood was not so dense , the web of creepers not so solidly convolved . 
I laid down the tools and basket by the cypress root , where they were instantly blackened over with the crawling ants and looked once more in the face of my unconscious victim . 
Mosquitoes and foul flies wove so close a veil between us that his features were obscured and the sound of their flight was like the turning of a mighty wheel . 
'Here , I said , 'is the spot . 
I cannot dig , for I have not learned to use such instruments but , for your own sake , I beseech you to be swift in what you do . 
He had sunk once more upon the ground , panting like a fish and I saw rising in his face the same dusky flush that had mantled on my father's . 
'I feel ill , he gasped , 'horribly ill the swamp turns around me the drone of these carrion flies confounds me . 
Have you not wine ? I gave him a glass , and he drank greedily . 
'It is for you to think , said I , 'if you should further persevere . 
The swamp has an ill name . 
And at the word I ominously nodded . 
'Give me the pick , said he . 
At first , there broke forth upon him a strong sweat , that made his face to shine , and in which the greedy insects settled thickly . 
'To sweat in such a place , said I. 'O master , is this wise ? Fever is drunk in through open pores . 
'What do you mean ? he screamed , pausing with the pick buried in the soil . 
And then , my mind flitting to my father's deathbed , I began to murmur , scarce above my breath , the same vain repetition of words , 'Hurry , hurry , hurry . 
The sweat had disappeared he was now dry , but all that I could see of him , of the same dull brick red . 
Presently his pick unearthed the bag of jewels but he did not observe it , and continued hewing at the soil . 
'Master , said I , 'there is the treasure . 
He seemed to waken from a dream . 
'Where ? he cried and then , seeing it before his eyes , 'Can this be possible ? he added . 
'I must be light headed . 
'You will not go out alive and as for me , my life is in God's hands . 
He fell upon the ground like a man struck by a blow , but whether from the effect of my words , or from sudden seizure of the malady , I cannot tell . 
Pretty soon , he raised his head . 
'You have brought me here to die , he said 'at the risk of your own days , you have condemned me . 
Why ? 'To save my honour , I replied . 
'Bear me out that I have warned you . 
Greed of these pebbles , and not I , has been your undoer . 
He took out his revolver and handed it to me . 
'You see , he said , 'I could have killed you even yet . 
But I am dying , as you say nothing could save me and my bill is long enough already . 
But he was determined , the poor soul , that I should yet more bitterly regret my act . 
'I have nothing to forgive , said he . 
'Dear heaven , what a thing is an old fool ! I thought , upon my word , you had taken quite a fancy to me . 
He was seized , at the same time , with a dreadful , swimming dizziness , clung to me like a child , and called upon the name of some woman . 
Presently this spasm , which I watched with choking tears , lessened and died away and he came again to the full possession of his mind . 
'I must write my will , he said . 
'Get out my pocket book . 
I did so , and he wrote hurriedly on one page with a pencil . 
I sat there and watched him , as I had watched my father , but with what different , with what appalling thoughts ! Through the long afternoon , he gradually sank . 
All that while , I fought an uphill battle to shield him from the swarms of ants and the clouds of mosquitoes the prisoner of my crime . 
The night fell , the roar of insects instantly redoubled in the dark arcades of the swamp and still I was not sure that he had breathed his last . 
At length , the flesh of his hand , which I yet held in mine , grew chill between my fingers , and I knew that I was free . 
The swamp , at that hour of the night , was filled with a continuous din animals and insects of all kinds , and all inimical to life , contributing their parts . 
Yet in the midst of this turmoil of sound , I walked as though my eyes were bandaged , beholding nothing . 
It was lighted by the strong moon and by the flames of a fire . 
Both the fire and the chapel were surrounded by a ring of kneeling Africans , both men and women . 
I stood spellbound , knowing that my life depended by a hair , knowing that I had stumbled on a celebration of the rites of Hoodoo . 
Presently , the door of the chapel opened , and there came forth a tall negro , entirely nude , and bearing in his hand the sacrificial knife . 
It was filled with coiling snakes and these , as she stood there with the uplifted basket , shot through the osier grating and curled about her arms . 
At the sight of this , the fervour of the crowd seemed to swell suddenly higher and the chant rose in pitch and grew more irregular in time and accent . 
At length , it seemed , it reached the turn of the high priestess . 
I tear away the veil . 
I would be served or perish . 
I know not if I saw what followed . 
A stillness fell upon the mob of cannibals . 
A moment more , and they must have thrown off this stupor , and I infallibly have perished . 
But Heaven had designed to save me . 
Blackness engulfed the world blackness , stabbed across from every side by intricate and blinding lightning . 
Almost in the same second , at one world swallowing stride , the heart of the tornado reached the clearing . 
I heard an agonising crash , and the light of my reason was overwhelmed . 
When I recovered consciousness , the day was come . 
I was unhurt the trees close about me had not lost a bough and I might have thought at first that the tornado was a feature in a dream . 
It was otherwise indeed for when I looked abroad , I perceived I had escaped destruction by a hand's breadth . 
Right through the forest , which here covered hill and dale , the storm had ploughed a lane of ruin . 
On either hand , the trees waved uninjured in the air of the morning but in the forthright course of its advance , the hurricane had left no trophy standing . 
To move by the path of the tornado was a thing impossible to man , so wildly were the wrecks of the tall forest piled together by that fugitive convulsion . 
I crossed it indeed with such labour and patience , with so many dangerous slips and falls , as left me , at the further side , bankrupt alike of strength and courage . 
my eye , flitting to and fro in the colonnade of the great trees , alighted on a trunk that had been blazed . 
Yes , by the directing hand of Providence , I had been conducted to the very track I was to follow . 
About all the coast , the surf , roused by the tornado of the night , beat with a particular fury and made a fringe of snow . 
Close at my feet , I saw a haven , set in precipitous and palm crowned bluffs of rock . 
There , then , was my ship of refuge and of all my difficulties only one remained to get on board of her . 
Him , then , I touched upon the shoulder . 
He started up the sharpness of his movement woke the rest and they all stared upon me in surprise . 
'What do you want ? inquired the officer . 
'To go on board the yacht , I answered . 
I thought they all seemed disconcerted at this and the officer , with something of sharpness , asked me who I was . 
Now I had determined to conceal my name until I met Sir George and the first name that rose to my lips was that of the Senora Mendizabal . 
I had never seen an effect so wonderful . 
partook of the same mingled nature . 
All eyes were directed on the passenger and once more I saw the negroes toss up their hands to heaven , but now as if with passionate wonder and delight . 
At the head of the gangway , I was received by another officer , a gentlemanly man with blond and bushy whiskers and to him I addressed my demand to see Sir George . 
'But this is not he cried , and paused . 
'I know it , returned the other officer , who had brought me from the shore . 
Apparently the officer with the whiskers had instantly come round to the opinion of his subaltern for he now addressed me with every signal of respect . 
'Sir George is at the island , my lady , said he 'for which , with your ladyship's permission , I shall immediately make all sail . 
Steward , take Lady Greville below . 
When I awoke , the day and night had passed , and it was once more morning . 
The steward instantly appeared I asked for food and he proceeded to lay the table , regarding me the while with a disquieting and pertinacious scrutiny . 
I warn you from the soul . 
No sooner arrived at the island At this moment he was interrupted by the whiskered officer , who had entered unperceived behind him , and now laid a hand upon his shoulder . 
The sudden pallor , the deadly and sick fear , that was imprinted on the steward's face , formed a startling addition to his words . 
'Parker ! said the officer , and pointed towards the door . 
'Yes , Mr. Kentish , said the steward . 
'For God's sake , Mr. Kentish ! And vanished , with a white face , from the cabin . 
Thereupon the officer bade me sit down , and began to help me , and join in the meal . 
'I fill your ladyship's glass , said he , and handed me a tumbler of neat rum . 
'Sir , cried I , 'do you expect me to drink this ? He laughed heartily . 
'Your ladyship is so much changed , said he , 'that I no longer expect any one thing more than any other . 
'Being so near the island ? asked Mr. Kentish . 
'That was what Mr. Harland said , sir , returned the sailor , with a scrape . 
'Better not , I think , said Mr. Kentish . 
That is always another word for incivility at sea so we can disregard a hail or a flag of distress , without attracting notice . 
As soon as the sailor had gone on deck , I turned to the officer in wonder . 
'Pardon me , said he 'but here for the first time I recognise your ladyship's impetuosity . 
Nor , try as I pleased , could I extract from him any explanation of this mystery , but only oily and commonplace evasion . 
I had scarce time to glance to the four quarters , ere a boat was lowered . 
I was handed in , Kentish took place beside me , and we pulled briskly to the pier . 
'But why ? said I. 'I demand to see Sir George . 
And even as he spoke , he threw an uneasy glance behind him at the following crowd of blacks . 
I was by this time so exceedingly bewildered and afraid , that I would have given years of my life to be once more the slave of Mr. Caulder . 
I did so , and he instantly , and with every mark of fervour , addressed me a long speech in some unknown and barbarous tongue . 
'I declare , I cried , clasping my brow , 'I do not understand one syllable . 
'Not ? he said in Spanish . 
Oh , bring me to Sir George ! And , my terror fairly mastering my courage , I fell upon my knees and began to pray to all the saints . 
'Lordy ! cried the negro , 'here they come ! And his black head was instantly withdrawn from the window . 
'I never heard such nonsense in my life , exclaimed a voice . 
'Why , so we all say , Sir George , replied the voice of Mr. Kentish . 
'But put yourself in our place . 
The niggers were near two to one . 
'This is no question of fortune , sir , returned Sir George . 
Give me the key and be off . 
'My dear young lady , said he , 'who the devil may you be ? I told him all my story in one rush of words . 
He sat down upon a tar barrel , as if unmanned by joy . 
'Dear me , said he , 'I declare this tempts me to believe in Providence . 
And what , he added , 'can I do for you ? 'Sir George , said I , 'I am already rich all that I ask is your protection . 
'Understand one thing , he said , with great energy . 
'I had not ventured to propose it , I exclaimed , unable to restrain my mirth 'I only seek to be conveyed to England , the natural home of the escaped slave . 
'Well , returned Sir George , 'frankly I owe you something for this exhilarating news besides , your father was of use to me . 
I eagerly accepted his conditions . 
'One thing more , said he . 
'My late wife was some sort of a sorceress among the blacks and they are all persuaded she has come alive again in your agreeable person . 
'I swear it , said I , 'by my father's memory and that is a vow that I will never break . 
My plain tale draws towards a close . 
Sir George and I , in my character of his rejuvenated wife , displayed ourselves arm in arm among the negroes , and were cheered and followed to the place of embarkation . 
Blackmail won't do for me . 
I'll rather risk all upon a cast , than be pulled to pieces by degrees . 
I'll rather be found out and hang , than give a doit to one man jack of you . 
That same night we got under way and crossed to the port of New Orleans , whence , as a sacred trust , I sent the pocket book to Mr. Caulder's son . 
In a week's time , the men were all paid off new hands were shipped and the NEMOROSA weighed her anchor for Old England . 
A more delightful voyage it were hard to fancy . 
I asked him , if his notion of piracy upon a private yacht were not original . 
But he told me , no . 
'A yacht , Miss Valdevia , he observed , 'is a chartered nuisance . 
Who smuggles ? Who robs the salmon rivers of the West of Scotland ? Who cruelly beats the keepers if they dare to intervene ? The crews and the proprietors of yachts . 
All I have done is to extend the line a trifle , and if you ask me for my unbiassed opinion , I do not suppose that I am in the least alone . 
We were still some days' sail from England , when Sir George obtained , from an outward bound ship , a packet of newspapers and from that fatal hour my misfortunes recommenced . 
'Hullo ! said he , 'this is bad this is deuced bad , Miss Valdevia . 
You would not listen to sound sense , you would send that pocket book to that man Caulder's son . 
'Sir George , said I , 'it was my duty . 
'You are prettily paid for it , at least , says he 'and much as I regret it , I , for one , am done with you . 
This fellow Caulder demands your extradition . 
'But a slave , I returned , 'is safe in England . 
'Yes , by George ! replied the baronet 'but it's not a slave , Miss Valdevia , it's a thief that he demands . 
He has quietly destroyed the will and now accuses you of robbing your father's bankrupt estate of jewels to the value of a hundred thousand pounds . 
I was so much overcome by indignation at this hateful charge and concern for my unhappy fate that the genial baronet made haste to put me more at ease . 
'Do not be cast down , said he . 
'Of course , I wash my hands of you myself . 
A man in my position baronet , old family , and all that cannot possibly be too particular about the company he keeps . 
But I am a deuced good humoured old boy , let me tell you , when not ruffled and I will do the best I can to put you right . 
I will lend you a trifle of ready money , give you the address of an excellent lawyer in London , and find a way to set you on shore unsuspected . 
He was in every particular as good as his word . 
He looked all about him in the grey twilight of the dawn , the haven was seen to lie deserted , and the yacht had long since disappeared . 
'Who are you ? he cried . 
'I am a traveller , said I. 'And where do you come from ? he asked . 
'I am going by the first train to London , I replied . 
THE effect of this tale on the mind of Harry Desborough was instant and convincing . 
The Fair Cuban had been already the loveliest , she now became , in his eyes , the most romantic , the most innocent , and the most unhappy of her sex . 
He was bereft of words to utter what he felt what pity , what admiration , what youthful envy of a career so vivid and adventurous . 
'O madam ! he began and finding no language adequate to that apostrophe , caught up her hand and wrung it in his own . 
The next day , and the next , his meditations moved to that delectable air . 
Now he saw her , and was favoured now saw her not at all now saw her and was put by . 
the truth of her recital . 
Presently he began to fall into that prettiest mood of a young love , in which the lover scorns himself for his presumption . 
The next day he proceeded to put his plan in action . 
At the corner of Tottenham Court Road , however , the Senorita suddenly turned back , and met him face to face , with every mark of pleasure and surprise . 
'Ah , Senor , I am sometimes fortunate ! she cried . 
'I was looking for a messenger and with the sweetest of smiles , she despatched him to the East End of London , to an address which he was unable to find . 
Next day he resumed his labours , glowing with pity and courage , and determined to protect Teresa with his life . 
But a painful shock awaited him . 
In the narrow and silent Hanway Street , she turned suddenly about and addressed him with a manner and a light in her eyes that were new to the young man's experience . 
'Do I understand that you follow me , Senor ? she cried . 
In the solitude of his own chamber , he gave way to every manifestation of despair . 
He passionately adored the Senorita but it was not only the thought of her possible union with another that distressed his soul , it was the indefeasible conviction that her suitor was unworthy . 
But this affair looked otherwise . 
'You have , sir , said Harry , somewhat abashed , but with a good show of stoutness 'and I will not deny that I was following you on purpose . 
Doubtless , he added , for he supposed that all men's minds must still be running on Teresa , 'you can divine my reason . 
At these words , the man with the chin beard was seized with a palsied tremor . 
Puzzled and dismayed by this unusual behaviour , Harry returned to the house in Queen Square , and ventured for the first time to knock at the fair Cuban's door . 
She bade him enter , and he found her kneeling with rather a disconsolate air beside a brown wooden trunk . 
'Senorita , he broke out , 'I doubt whether that man's character is what he wishes you to believe . 
His manner , when he found , and indeed when I admitted that I was following him , was not the manner of an honest man . 
Even yon humble clerk from my solicitor's office may find himself at any moment the quarry of armed spies . 
'As a matter of fact , he is my lawyer's clerk , and has been here to night charged with disastrous news . 
I am in sore straits , Senor Harry . 
'Can you ask ? he cried . 
'What is there that I can do ? Only tell me that . 
With signs of an emotion that was certainly unfeigned , the fair Cuban laid her hand upon the box . 
'This box , she said , 'contains my jewels , papers , and clothes all , in a word , that still connects me with Cuba and my dreadful past . 
They must now be smuggled out of England or , by the opinion of my lawyer , I am lost beyond remedy . 
'No more do I , replied the Cuban . 
'It is not necessary that we should , so long as we obey the lawyer's orders . 
'Senorita , returned Harry gravely , 'I think this , of course , a very little thing to do for you , when I would willingly do all . 
But suffer me to say one word . 
I am not considered clever , and can only speak out plainly what is in my heart that I love you , and that I cannot bear to lose all knowledge of you . 
I hope no more than to be your servant I ask no more than just that I shall hear of you . 
Oh , promise me so much ! 'You shall , she said , after a pause . 
'I promise you , you shall . 
But though she spoke with earnestness , the marks of great embarrassment and a strong conflict of emotions appeared upon her face . 
'I wish to tell you , resumed Desborough , 'in case of accidents . 
I would love to die for you . 
My brain is in a whirl . 
I scarce know what we are talking . 
It was already time for him to rise . 
He dressed , made his breakfast on cold food that had been laid for him the night before and went down to the room of his idol for the box . 
There lay the box , however , and upon the lid a paper with these words 'Harry , I hope to be back before you go . 
He sat down to wait , laying his watch before him on the table . 
She had called him Harry that should be enough , he thought , to fill the day with sunshine and yet somehow the sight of that disordered room still poisoned his enjoyment . 
The door of the bed chamber stood gaping open and though he turned aside his eyes as from a sacrilege , he could not but observe the bed had not been slept in . 
He was still pondering what this should mean , still trying to convince himself that all was well , when the moving needle of his watch summoned him to set forth without delay . 
He was before all things a man of his word ran round to Southampton Row to fetch a cab and taking the box on the front seat , drove off towards the terminus . 
The streets were scarcely awake there was little to amuse the eye and the young man's attention centred on the dumb companion of his drive . 
A card was nailed upon one side , bearing the superscription 'Miss Doolan , passenger to Dublin . 
It was in vain for him to contend against the tide in vain that he shook himself or tried to whistle the sense of some impending blow was not to be averted . 
He looked out in the long , empty streets , the cab pursued its way without a trace of any follower . 
He gave ear and over and above the jolting of the wheels upon the road , he was conscious of a certain regular and quiet sound that seemed to issue from the box . 
He put his ear to the cover at one moment , he seemed to perceive a delicate ticking the next , the sound was gone , nor could his closest hearkening recapture it . 
He laughed at himself but still the gloom continued and it was with more than the common relief of an arrival , that he leaped from the cab before the station . 
Presently the bookstall opened and the young man was looking at the books when he was seized by the arm . 
He turned , and , though she was closely veiled , at once recognised the Fair Cuban . 
'Where is it ? she asked and the sound of her voice surprised him . 
Have it put on a cab instantly . 
I am in fearful haste . 
'Teresa , said Harry , 'get into your cab , and I will go along with you . 
You are in some distress , perhaps some danger and till I know the whole , not even you can make me leave you . 
'You will not ? she asked . 
'O Harry , it were better ! 'I will not , said Harry stoutly . 
'Where are we to drive ? asked Harry . 
'Home , quickly , she answered 'double fare ! And as soon as they had both mounted to their places , the vehicle crazily trundled from the station . 
Teresa leaned back in a corner . 
The whole way Harry could perceive her tears to flow under her veil but she vouchsafed no explanation . 
At the door of the house in Queen Square , both alighted and the cabman lowered the box , which Harry , glad to display his strength , received upon his shoulders . 
'Let the man take it , she whispered . 
'Let the man take it . 
'I will do no such thing , said Harry cheerfully and having paid the fare , he followed Teresa through the door which she had opened with her key . 
The lady , still preceding him , opened the door of her room , and helped him to lower the box tenderly in the corner by the window . 
'O Harry , Harry , go away ! Oh , go , and leave me to the fate that I deserve ! 'The fate ? repeated Harry . 
'What is this ? 'No fate , she resumed . 
'I do not know what I am saying . 
But I wish to be alone . 
You are in grief or danger . 
Lift your veil and tell me what it is . 
'Then , she said , with a sudden composure , 'you leave but one course open to me . 
And raising the veil , she showed him a countenance from which every trace of colour had fled , eyes marred with weeping , and a brow on which resolve had conquered fear . 
'Harry , she began , 'I am not what I seem . 
'You have told me that before , said Harry , 'several times . 
'O Harry , Harry , she cried , 'how you shame me ! But this is the God's truth . 
I am a dangerous and wicked girl . 
My name is Clara Luxmore . 
I was never nearer Cuba than Penzance . 
From first to last I have cheated and played with you . 
And what I am I dare not even name to you in words . 
Indeed , until to day , until the sleepless watches of last night , I never grasped the depth and foulness of my guilt . 
The young man looked upon her aghast . 
Then a generous current poured along his veins . 
'That is all one , he said . 
'If you be all you say , you have the greater need of me . 
'Is it possible , she exclaimed , 'that I have schemed in vain ? And will nothing drive you from this house of death ? 'Of death ? he echoed . 
'My God ! cried Harry . 
'Ah ! she continued wildly , 'will you flee now ? At any moment you may hear the click that sounds the ruin of this building . 
'Is it , he asked hoarsely , 'an infernal machine ? Her lips formed the word 'Yes , which her voice refused to utter . 
'For whom ? he asked . 
'What matters it , she cried , seizing him by the arm . 
'If you may still be saved , what matter questions ? 'God in heaven ! cried Harry . 
'And the Children's Hospital ! At whatever cost , this damned contrivance must be stopped ! 'It cannot , she gasped . 
'The power of man cannot avert the blow . 
For one second the two stared at each other with lifted brows and stony eyes . 
Then Harry , throwing one arm over his face , with the other clutched the girl to his breast and staggered against the wall . 
A dull and startling thud resounded through the room their eyes blinked against the coming horror and still clinging together like drowning people , they fell to the floor . 
Then followed a prolonged and strident hissing as from the indignant pit an offensive stench seized them by the throat the room was filled with dense and choking fumes . 
'Oh , poor Zero ! cried the girl , with a strange sobbing laugh . 
Close beside him stood an untasted grog , the mark of strong preoccupation . 
The room besides was in confusion boxes had been tumbled to and fro the floor was strewn with keys and other implements and in the midst of this disorder lay a lady's glove . 
'I have come , cried Somerset , 'to make an end of this . 
I will denounce you to the police . 
'Ah ! replied Zero , slowly shaking his head . 
'You are too late , dear fellow ! I am already at the end of all my hopes , and fallen to be a laughing stock and mockery . 
'What has befallen you ? cried Somerset . 
'My last batch , returned the plotter wearily , 'like all the others , is a hollow mockery and a fraud . 
I do not know a soul that I can face . 
My subordinates themselves have turned upon me . 
Yes , dear fellow , I have drunk a bitter cup the speech of females is remarkable for . 
well , well ! Denounce me , if you will you but denounce the dead . 
But I seem to perceive , he added , 'a certain sound of ticking in this box . 
'Yes , replied Zero , with the same slow weariness of manner , 'I have set several of them going . 
'My God ! cried Somerset , bounding to his feet . 
'Machines ? 'Machines ! returned the plotter bitterly . 
'Machines indeed ! I blush to be their author . 
Alas ! he said , burying his face in his hands , 'that I should live to say it ! 'Madman ! cried Somerset , shaking him by the arm . 
'One more quotation strange ! But indeed my brain is struck with numbness . 
Yes , dear boy , I have , as you say , put my contrivance in motion . 
The one on which you are sitting , I have timed for half an hour . 
Yon other 'Half an hour ! echoed Somerset , dancing with trepidation . 
'Merciful Heavens , in half an hour ? 'Dear fellow , why so much excitement ? inquired Zero . 
'My dynamite is not more dangerous than toffy had I an only child , I would give it him to play with . 
You see this brick ? he continued , lifting a cake of the infernal compound from the laboratory table . 
'At a touch it should explode , and that with such unconquerable energy as should bestrew the square with ruins . 
Well now , behold ! I dash it on the floor . 
Somerset sprang forward , and with the strength of the very ecstasy of terror , wrested the brick from his possession . 
'It was entirely harmless , he sighed . 
'They describe it as burning like tobacco . 
'Such , dear fellow , was my own design , replied the plotter . 
And yet , he added , looking on the boxes with a lingering regret , 'I should have liked to make quite certain . 
'If you do not instantly buckle to your bag , I leave you . 
'A few necessaries , returned Zero , 'only a few necessaries , dear Somerset , and you behold me ready . 
He passed into the bedroom , and after an interval which seemed to draw out into eternity for his unfortunate companion , he returned , bearing in his hand an open Gladstone bag . 
His movements were still horribly deliberate , and his eyes lingered gloatingly on his dear boxes , as he moved to and fro about the drawing room , gathering a few small trifles . 
Last of all , he lifted one of the squares of dynamite . 
'Put that down ! cried Somerset . 
'If what you say be true , you have no call to load yourself with that ungodly contraband . 
Well , he added , 'if you have really no curiosity to await the event 'I ! cried Somerset . 
'My blood boils to get away . 
They had not yet passed the corner of the garden , when they were arrested by a dull thud of an extraordinary amplitude of sound , accompanied and followed by a shattering FRACAS . 
Somerset turned in time to see the mansion rend in twain , vomit forth flames and smoke , and instantly collapse into its cellars . 
At the same moment , he was thrown violently to the ground . 
His first glance was towards Zero . 
And under favour of this confusion , Somerset dragged away the lingering plotter . 
'It was grand , he continued to murmur 'it was indescribably grand . 
'Good God ! he cried , 'how mortifying ! seven minutes too early ! The dynamite surpassed my hopes but the clockwork , fickle clockwork , has once more betrayed me . 
'This will shake England to the heart . 
Gladstone , the truculent old man , will quail before the pointing finger of revenge . 
And now that my dynamite is proved effective 'Heavens , you remind me ! ejaculated Somerset . 
'That brick in your bag must be instantly disposed of . 
'It cannot so be done and there is no help but you must carry it away with you . 
Come on , then , and let me at once consign you to a train . 
'Nay , nay , dear boy , protested Zero . 
'There is now no call for me to leave . 
My character is now reinstated my fame brightens this is the best thing I have done yet and I see from here the ovations that await the author of the Golden Square Atrocity . 
'My young friend , returned the other , 'I give you your choice . 
I will either see you safe on board a train or safe in gaol . 
'Somerset , this is unlike you ! said the chymist . 
'You surprise me , Somerset . 
'I shall considerably more surprise you at the next police office , returned Somerset , with something bordering on rage . 
'For on one point my mind is settled either I see you packed off to America , brick and all , or else you dine in prison . 
'You have perhaps neglected one point , returned the unoffended Zero 'for , speaking as a philosopher , I fail to see what means you can employ to force me . 
The will , my dear fellow 'Now , see here , interrupted Somerset . 
Somerset , for God's sake , a public house ! Somerset considered him with freshly awakened curiosity . 
'This is very interesting , said he . 
'You recoil from such a death ? 'Who would not ? asked the plotter . 
'Shake hands with me , cried Somerset . 
'Thank God , I have now no ill feeling left and though you cannot conceive how I burn to see you on the gallows , I can quite contentedly assist at your departure . 
'I do not very clearly take your meaning , said Zero , 'but I am sure you mean kindly . 
As to my departure , there is another point to be considered . 
'For me , said Somerset , 'you have now ceased to be a man . 
You have no more claim upon me than a door scraper but the touching confusion of your mind disarms me from extremities . 
What should this portend ? I begin to doubt I am losing faith in scepticism . 
'Under the circumstances , replied Zero , 'I scarce see my way to refuse your offer . 
As for the small advance , it shall be remitted you from Philadelphia . 
'It shall not , said Somerset . 
'Dear fellow , you do not understand , returned the plotter . 
'I shall now be received with fresh confidence by my superiors and my experiments will be no longer hampered by pitiful conditions of the purse . 
Take it , and keep it . 
By George , sir , three days of you have transformed me to an ancient Roman . 
With these words , Somerset hailed a passing hansom and the pair were driven rapidly to the railway terminus . 
There , an oath having been exacted , the money changed hands . 
'And now , said Somerset , 'I have bought back my honour with every penny I possess . 
And I thank God , though there is nothing before me but starvation , I am free from all entanglement with Mr. Zero Pumpernickel Jones . 
'To starve ? cried Zero . 
'Dear fellow , I cannot endure the thought . 
'Take your ticket ! returned Somerset . 
'I think you display temper , said Zero . 
'Take your ticket , reiterated the young man . 
'As a man , no , replied Somerset 'but I have no objection to shake hands with you , as I might with a pump well that ran poison or bell fire . 
'This is a very cold parting , sighed the dynamiter and still followed by Somerset , he began to descend the platform . 
This was now bustling with passengers the train for Liverpool was just about to start , another had but recently arrived and the double tide made movement difficult . 
'Ha ! said Mr. Godall , 'Mr . 
'I must not take a cigar , said Somerset . 
'Indeed ! said Mr. Godall . 
'But now I come to look at you more closely , I perceive that you are changed . 
My poor boy , I hope there is nothing wrong ? Somerset burst into tears . 
It was a place he had visited but once before the memory of what had followed on that visit and the fear of Somerset having prevented his return . 
Even now , he looked in before he entered but the shop was free of customers . 
The young man behind the counter was so intently writing in a penny version book , that he paid no heed to Challoner's arrival . 
On a second glance , it seemed to the latter that he recognised him . 
Or opulent rotunda strike the sky , said the shopman to himself , in the tone of one considering a verse . 
'I suppose it would be too much to say orotunda , and yet how noble it were ! Or opulent orotunda strike the sky . 
But that is the bitterness of arts you see a good effect , and some nonsense about sense continually intervenes . 
'Somerset , my dear fellow , said Challoner , 'is this a masquerade ? 'What ? Challoner ! cried the shopman . 
'I am delighted to see you . 
One moment , till I finish the octave of my sonnet only the octave . 
And with a friendly waggle of the hand , he once more buried himself in the commerce of the Muses . 
'Ah , said Somerset , 'I very much doubt the legitimacy of inheritance . 
The State , in my view , should collar it . 
I am now going through a stage of socialism and poetry , he added apologetically , as one who spoke of a course of medicinal waters . 
'And are you really the person of the establishment ? inquired Challoner , deftly evading the word 'shop . 
'A vendor , sir , a vendor , returned the other , pocketing his poesy . 
'I help old Happy and Glorious . 
Can I offer you a weed ? 'Well , I scarcely like . 
'Nonsense , my dear fellow , cried the shopman . 
DE GODALL JE SUIS LE FERVENT . 
There is only one Godall . 
By the way , he added , as Challoner lit his cigar , 'how did you get on with the detective trade ? 'I did not try , said Challoner curtly . 
'Ah , well , I did , returned Somerset , 'and made the most incomparable mess of it lost all my money and fairly covered myself with odium and ridicule . 
There is more in that business , Challoner , than meets the eye there is more , in fact , in all businesses . 
You must believe in them , or get up the belief that you believe . 
Hence , he added , 'the recognised inferiority of the plumber , for no one could believe in plumbing . 
'A PROPOS , asked Challoner , 'do you still paint ? 'Not now , replied Paul 'but I think of taking up the violin . 
'By Jove , he cried , 'that's odd ! 'What is odd ? asked Paul . 
'Oh , nothing , returned the other 'only I once met a person called M'Guire . 
'So did I ! cried Somerset . 
'Is there anything about him ? Challoner read as follows 'MYSTERIOUS DEATH IN STEPNEY . 
An inquest was held yesterday on the body of Patrick M'Guire , described as a carpenter . 
Doctor Dovering stated that he had for some time treated the deceased as a dispensary patient , for sleeplessness , loss of appetite , and nervous depression . 
There was no cause of death to be found . 
He would say the deceased had sunk . 
Deceased was not a temperate man , which doubtless accelerated death . 
Deceased complained of dumb ague , but witness had never been able to detect any positive disease . 
He did not know that he had any family . 
He regarded him as a person of unsound intellect , who believed himself a member and the victim of some secret society . 
If he were to hazard an opinion , he would say deceased had died of fear . 
The door at this moment opened , and Desborough appeared upon the threshold . 
He was hailed by the two others with exclamations of surprise and welcome . 
'And did you try the detective business ? inquired Paul . 
'Oh yes , by the way , I did though twice , and got caught out both times . 
But I thought I should find my my wife here ? he added , with a kind of proud confusion . 
'What ? are you married ? cried Somerset . 
'Oh yes , said Harry , 'quite a long time a month at least . 
'That's the worst of it , Desborough admitted . 
'We are deadly hard up . 
But the Pri Mr. Godall is going to do something for us . 
That is what brings us here . 
'Who was Mrs. Desborough ? said Challoner , in the tone of a man of society . 
'She was a Miss Luxmore , returned Harry . 
'You fellows will be sure to like her , for she is much cleverer than I. She tells wonderful stories , too better than a book . 
And just then the door opened , and Mrs. Desborough entered . 
Somerset cried out aloud to recognise the young lady of the Superfluous Mansion , and Challoner fell back a step and dropped his cigar as he beheld the sorceress of Chelsea . 
'What ! cried Harry , 'do you both know my wife ? 'I believe I have seen her , said Somerset , a little wildly . 
'I think I have met the gentleman , said Mrs. Desborough sweetly 'but I cannot imagine where it was . 
'Oh no , cried Somerset fervently 'I have no notion I cannot conceive where it could have been . 
Indeed , he continued , growing in emphasis , 'I think it highly probable that it's a mistake . 
'And you , Challoner ? asked Harry , 'you seemed to recognise her too . 
'These are both friends of yours , Harry ? said the lady . 
'Delighted , I am sure . 
I do not remember to have met Mr. Challoner . 
Challoner was very red in the face , perhaps from having groped after his cigar . 
'I do not remember to have had the pleasure , he responded huskily . 
'Well , and Mr. Godall ? asked Mrs. Desborough . 
'Are you the lady that has an appointment with old began Somerset , and paused blushing . 
'Because if so , he resumed , 'I was to announce you at once . 
And the shopman raised a curtain , opened a door , and passed into a small pavilion which had been added to the back of the house . 
On the roof , the rain resounded musically . 
The walls were lined with maps and prints and a few works of reference . 
In this elegant and plain apartment , Mr. Godall sat in a morning muse , placidly gazing at the fire and hearkening to the rain upon the roof . 
'Ha , my dear Mr. Somerset , said he , 'and have you since last night adopted any fresh political principle ? 'The lady , sir , said Somerset , with another blush . 
I think it not improbable this lady may desire entirely to forget the past . 
From one gentleman to another , no more words are necessary . 
A moment after , he had received Mrs. Desborough with that grave and touching urbanity that so well became him . 
'But for yourself ? suggested Mr. Godall 'it was thus you were about to continue , I believe . 
'You take the words out of my mouth , she said . 
'For myself , it is different . 
'I am not here to be a judge of men , replied the Prince 'still less of women . 
I am now a private person like yourself and many million others but I am one who still fights upon the side of quiet . 
I would not willingly put arms into the hands of a disloyal combatant and I dare not restore to wealth one of the levyers of a private and a barbarous war . 
I speak with some severity , and yet I pick my terms . 
I tell myself continually that you are a woman and a voice continually reminds me of the children whose lives and limbs you have endangered . 
A woman , he repeated solemnly 'and children . 
'You look at the fault , she said , 'and not at the excuse . 
Has your own heart never leaped within you at some story of oppression ? But , alas , no ! for you were born upon a throne . 
'I was born of woman , said the Prince 'I came forth from my mother's agony , helpless as a wren , like other nurselings . 
This , which you forgot , I have still faithfully remembered . 
There was a silence of a moment . 
'I fear , madam , resumed the Prince , 'that I but weary you . 
My views are formal like myself and like myself , they also begin to grow old . 
But I must still trouble you for some reply . 
'I can say but one thing , said Mrs. Desborough 'I love my husband . 
'It is a good answer , returned the Prince 'and you name a good influence , but one that need not be conterminous with life . 
'I will not play at pride with such a man as you , she answered . 
'What do you ask of me ? not protestations , I am sure . 
What shall I say ? I have done much that I cannot defend and that I would not do again . 
Can I say more ? Yes I can say this I never abused myself with the muddle headed fairy tales of politics . 
I was at least prepared to meet reprisals . 
While I was levying war myself or levying murder , if you choose the plainer term I never accused my adversaries of assassination . 
I never felt or feigned a righteous horror , when a price was put upon my life by those whom I attacked . 
I never called the policeman a hireling . 
I may have been a criminal , in short but I never was a fool . 
Suffer me , then , to ask you to retire for by the signal of that bell , I perceive my old friend , your mother , to be close at hand . 
With her I promise you to do my utmost . 
And as Mrs. Desborough returned to the Divan , the Prince , opening a door upon the other side , admitted Mrs. Luxmore . 
'I have found it so , returned the Prince , 'with every class of my acquaintance . 
But , madam , I pray you to be seated . 
My business is of a delicate order , and regards your daughter . 
'In that case , said Mrs. Luxmore , 'you may save yourself the trouble of speaking , for I have fully made up my mind to have nothing to do with her . 
She deserted me , her natural protector for years , she has consorted with the most disreputable persons and to fill the cup of her offence , she has recently married . 
I refuse to see her , or the being to whom she has linked herself . 
One hundred and twenty pounds a year , I have always offered her I offer it again . 
It is what I had myself when I was her age . 
'I believe he had seven hundred pounds in the year . 
'You were one , I think , of several ? pursued the Prince . 
'Of four , was the reply . 
'We were four daughters and painful as the admission is to make , a more detestable family could scarce be found in England . 
'Dear me ! said the Prince . 
'For I must not suffer you to take your father for a rule . 
He was poor , you are rich . 
He had many calls upon his poverty there are none upon your wealth . 
'I have been entrapped into this house , said the old lady , getting to her feet . 
'But it shall not avail . 
Not all the tobacconists in Europe . 
With such young blood my business might be doubled , and I might be bound in common gratitude to place the name of Luxmore beside that of Godall . 
'Your Highness , said the old lady , 'I have been very rude , and you are very cunning . 
I suppose the minx is on the premises . 
'Let us rather observe them unperceived , said the Prince and so saying he rose and quietly drew back the curtain . 
'At that moment , Mrs. Desborough was saying , 'Mr Gladstone detected the features of his cowardly assailant . 
A cry rose to his lips a cry of mingled triumph . 
'That is Mr. Somerset ! interrupted the spirited old lady , in the highest note of her register . 
Somerset , what have you done with my house property ? 'Madam , said the Prince , 'let it be mine to give the explanation and in the meanwhile , welcome your daughter . 
'Well , Clara , how do you do ? said Mrs. Luxmore . 
'It appears I am to give you an allowance . 
So much the better for you . 
As for Mr. Somerset , I am very ready to have an explanation for the whole affair , though costly , was eminently humorous . 
'I have ordered a collation , said the Prince . 
Somerset , as these are all your friends , I propose , if you please , that you should join them at table . 
I will take the shop . 
