At the Earth's Core by Edgar Rice Burroughs PROLOGUE IN THE FIRST PLACE PLEASE BEAR IN MIND THAT I do not expect you to believe this story . 
You would not have needed the final ocular proof that I had the weird rhamphorhynchus like creature which he had brought back with him from the inner world . 
I came upon him quite suddenly , and no less unexpectedly , upon the rim of the great Sahara Desert . 
He was standing before a goat skin tent amidst a clump of date palms within a tiny oasis . 
Close by was an Arab douar of some eight or ten tents . 
I had come down from the north to hunt lion . 
My party consisted of a dozen children of the desert I was the only white man . 
As we approached the little clump of verdure I saw the man come from his tent and with hand shaded eyes peer intently at us . 
At sight of me he advanced rapidly to meet us . 
A white man ! he cried . 
May the good Lord be praised ! I have been watching you for hours , hoping against hope that THIS time there would be a white man . 
It cannot be ! he cried after a moment . 
It cannot be ! Tell me that you are mistaken , or that you are but joking . 
I am telling you the truth , my friend , I replied . 
Why should I deceive a stranger , or attempt to , in so simple a matter as the date ? For some time he stood in silence , with bowed head . 
Ten years ! he murmured , at last . 
I TOWARD THE ETERNAL FIRES I WAS BORN IN CONNECTICUT ABOUT THIRTY YEARS ago . 
My name is David Innes . 
My father was a wealthy mine owner . 
When I was nineteen he died . 
All his property was to be mine when I had attained my majority provided that I had devoted the two years intervening in close application to the great business I was to inherit . 
I did my best to fulfil the last wishes of my parent not because of the inheritance , but because I loved and honored my father . 
For six months I toiled in the mines and in the counting rooms , for I wished to know every minute detail of the business . 
Then Perry interested me in his invention . 
He was an old fellow who had devoted the better part of a long life to the perfection of a mechanical subterranean prospector . 
As relaxation he studied paleontology . 
I looked over his plans , listened to his arguments , inspected his working model and then , convinced , I advanced the funds necessary to construct a full sized , practical prospector . 
I shall not go into the details of its construction it lies out there in the desert now about two miles from here . 
Tomorrow you may care to ride out and see it . 
Roughly , it is a steel cylinder a hundred feet long , and jointed so that it may turn and twist through solid rock if need be . 
At one end is a mighty revolving drill operated by an engine which Perry said generated more power to the cubic inch than any other engine did to the cubic foot . 
I recall as it were but yesterday the night of that momentous occasion upon which we were to test the practicality of that wondrous invention . 
It was near midnight when we repaired to the lofty tower in which Perry had constructed his iron mole as he was wont to call the thing . 
The great nose rested upon the bare earth of the floor . 
He tested the steering device , and overlooked the mighty cogs which transmitted its marvelous velocity to the giant drill at the nose of his strange craft . 
At length all was ready . 
Perry bowed his head in prayer . 
For a moment we were silent , and then the old man's hand grasped the starting lever . 
We were off ! The noise was deafening . 
For a full minute neither of us could do aught but cling with the proverbial desperation of the drowning man to the handrails of our swinging seats . 
Then Perry glanced at the thermometer . 
Ten degrees rise it cannot be possible ! and then I saw him tug frantically upon the steering wheel . 
As I finally found the tiny needle in the dim light I translated Perry's evident excitement , and my heart sank within me . 
But when I spoke I hid the fear which haunted me . 
It will be seven hundred feet , Perry , I said , by the time you can turn her into the horizontal . 
You'd better lend me a hand then , my boy , he replied , for I cannot budge her out of the vertical alone . 
God give that our combined strength may be equal to the task , for else we are lost . 
I wormed my way to the old man's side with never a doubt but that the great wheel would yield on the instant to the power of my young and vigorous muscles . 
Nor was my belief mere vanity , for always had my physique been the envy and despair of my fellows . 
What with boxing , football , and baseball , I had been in training since childhood . 
There was no need for words at least none that I could imagine , unless Perry desired to pray . 
And I was quite sure that he would , for he never left an opportunity neglected where he might sandwich in a prayer . 
But to my astonishment I discovered that with death staring him in the face Abner Perry was transformed into a new being . 
From his lips there flowed not prayer but a clear and limpid stream of undiluted profanity , and it was all directed at that quietly stubborn piece of unyielding mechanism . 
I should think , Perry , I chided , that a man of your professed religiousness would rather be at his prayers than cursing in the presence of imminent death . 
Death is it that appalls you ? That is nothing by comparison with the loss the world must suffer . 
Why , David within this iron cylinder we have demonstrated possibilities that science has scarce dreamed . 
We have harnessed a new principle , and with it animated a piece of steel with the power of ten thousand men . 
I am frank to admit that for myself I was much more concerned with our own immediate future than with any problematic loss which the world might be about to suffer . 
The world was at least ignorant of its bereavement , while to me it was a real and terrible actuality . 
What can we do ? I asked , hiding my perturbation beneath the mask of a low and level voice . 
If we succeed in so doing before we reach the higher internal temperature we may even yet survive . 
I glanced at the thermometer . 
While we were talking the mighty iron mole had bored its way over a mile into the rock of the earth's crust . 
Let us continue on , then , I replied . 
It should soon be over at this rate . 
You never intimated that the speed of this thing would be so high , Perry . 
Didn't you know it ? No , he answered . 
I could not figure the speed exactly , for I had no instrument for measuring the mighty power of my generator . 
I reasoned , however , that we should make about five hundred yards an hour . 
And we are making seven miles an hour , I concluded for him , as I sat with my eyes upon the distance meter . 
How thick is the Earth's crust , Perry ? I asked . 
There are almost as many conjectures as to that as there are geologists , was his answer . 
You may take your choice . 
And if it should prove solid ? I asked . 
It will be all the same to us in the end , David , replied Perry . 
At the best our fuel will suffice to carry us but three or four days , while our atmosphere cannot last to exceed three . 
Neither , then , is sufficient to bear us in the safety through eight thousand miles of rock to the antipodes . 
Am I correct ? I asked . 
Are you frightened ? I do not know . 
It all has come so suddenly that I scarce believe that either of us realizes the real terrors of our position . 
I feel that I should be reduced to panic but yet I am not . 
I imagine that the shock has been so great as to partially stun our sensibilities . 
Again I turned to the thermometer . 
The mercury was rising with less rapidity . 
It was now but degrees , although we had penetrated to a depth of nearly four miles . 
I told Perry , and he smiled . 
We have shattered one theory at least , was his only comment , and then he returned to his self assumed occupation of fluently cursing the steering wheel . 
I once heard a pirate swear , but his best efforts would have seemed like those of a tyro alongside of Perry's masterful and scientific imprecations . 
Once more I tried my hand at the wheel , but I might as well have essayed to swing the earth itself . 
I shook my head sadly , and motioned to the starting lever . 
Perry pulled it toward him , and once again we were plunging downward toward eternity at the rate of seven miles an hour . 
I sat with my eyes glued to the thermometer and the distance meter . 
The mercury was rising very slowly now , though even at degrees it was almost unbearable within the narrow confines of our metal prison . 
From cursing he had turned to singing I felt that the strain had at last affected his mind . 
For several hours we had not spoken except as he asked me for the readings of the instruments from time to time , and I announced them . 
My thoughts were filled with vain regrets . 
I recalled numerous acts of my past life which I should have been glad to have had a few more years to live down . 
There was the affair in the Latin Commons at Andover when Calhoun and I had put gunpowder in the stove and nearly killed one of the masters . 
And then but what was the use , I was about to die and atone for all these things and several more . 
Already the heat was sufficient to give me a foretaste of the hereafter . 
A few more degrees and I felt that I should lose consciousness . 
What are the readings now , David ? Perry's voice broke in upon my somber reflections . 
Ninety miles and degrees , I replied . 
Gad , but we've knocked that thirty mile crust theory into a cocked hat ! he cried gleefully . 
Precious lot of good it will do us , I growled back . 
But my boy , he continued , doesn't that temperature reading mean anything to you ? Why it hasn't gone up in six miles . 
But I must admit that for some unaccountable reason the stationary temperature did renew my waning hope . 
What I hoped for I could not have explained , nor did I try . 
It was very good , and logical reasoning , and so I embraced it . 
At one hundred miles the temperature had DROPPED TO DEGREES ! When I announced it Perry reached over and hugged me . 
From then on until noon of the second day , it continued to drop until it became as uncomfortably cold as it had been unbearably hot before . 
During the next three hours we passed through ten miles of ice , eventually emerging into another series of ammonia impregnated strata , where the mercury again fell to ten degrees below zero . 
Slowly it rose once more until we were convinced that at last we were nearing the molten interior of the earth . 
At four hundred miles the temperature had reached degrees . 
Feverishly I watched the thermometer . 
Perry had ceased singing and was at last praying . 
Our hopes had received such a deathblow that the gradually increasing heat seemed to our distorted imaginations much greater than it really was . 
For another hour I saw that pitiless column of mercury rise and rise until at four hundred and ten miles it stood at degrees . 
Now it was that we began to hang upon those readings in almost breathless anxiety . 
One hundred and fifty three degrees had been the maximum temperature above the ice stratum . 
Already the air tanks were at low ebb there was barely enough of the precious gases to sustain us for another twelve hours . 
But would we be alive to know or care ? It seemed incredible . 
At four hundred and twenty miles I took another reading . 
Perry , man ! She's going down ! She's going down ! She's degrees again . 
I can face the thought of any death but that . 
Perry was the first to discover it . 
I saw him fussing with the valves that regulate the air supply . 
And at the same time I experienced difficulty in breathing . 
My head felt dizzy my limbs heavy . 
I saw Perry crumple in his seat . 
He gave himself a shake and sat erect again . 
Then he turned toward me . 
Good bye , David , he said . 
I guess this is the end , and then he smiled and closed his eyes . 
Good bye , Perry , and good luck to you , I answered , smiling back at him . 
But I fought off that awful lethargy . 
I was very young I did not want to die . 
For an hour I battled against the cruelly enveloping death that surrounded me upon all sides . 
At first I found that by climbing high into the framework above me I could find more of the precious life giving elements , and for a while these sustained me . 
It must have been an hour after Perry had succumbed that I at last came to the realization that I could no longer carry on this unequal struggle against the inevitable . 
With my last flickering ray of consciousness I turned mechanically toward the distance meter . 
It stood at exactly five hundred miles from the earth's surface and then of a sudden the huge thing that bore us came to a stop . 
The rattle of hurtling rock through the hollow jacket ceased . 
The wild racing of the giant drill betokened that it was running loose in AIR and then another truth flashed upon me . 
The point of the prospector was ABOVE us . 
Slowly it dawned on me that since passing through the ice strata it had been above . 
We had turned in the ice and sped upward toward the earth's crust . 
The reaction left me in a state of collapse , and I lost consciousness . 
My first concern was with Perry . 
I was horrified at the thought that upon the very threshold of salvation he might be dead . 
Tearing open his shirt I placed my ear to his breast . 
I could have cried with relief his heart was beating quite regularly . 
At the water tank I wetted my handkerchief , slapping it smartly across his forehead and face several times . 
In a moment I was rewarded by the raising of his lids . 
For a time he lay wide eyed and quite uncomprehending . 
Then his scattered wits slowly foregathered , and he sat up sniffing the air with an expression of wonderment upon his face . 
Why , David , he cried at last , it's air , as sure as I live . 
I haven't opened her up yet . 
Been too busy reviving you . 
We turned in the ice stratum . 
Don't you recall the sudden whirling of our seats ? After that the drill was above you instead of below . 
We didn't notice it at the time but I recall it now . 
You mean to say that we turned back in the ice stratum , David ? That is not possible . 
The prospector cannot turn unless its nose is deflected from the outside by some external force or resistance the steering wheel within would have moved in response . 
The steering wheel has not budged , David , since we started . 
I did know it but here we were with our drill racing in pure air , and copious volumes of it pouring into the cabin . 
Better wait till morning , David it must be midnight now . 
I glanced at the chronometer . 
We have been out seventy two hours , so it must be midnight . 
There was quite a quantity of loose material in the jacket , and this I had to remove with a shovel to get at the opposite door in the outer shell . 
In a short time I had removed enough of the earth and rock to the floor of the cabin to expose the door beyond . 
Perry was directly behind me as I threw it open . 
The upper half was above the surface of the ground . 
With an expression of surprise I turned and looked at Perry it was broad daylight without ! Something seems to have gone wrong either with our calculations or the chronometer , I said . 
Perry shook his head there was a strange expression in his eyes . 
Let's have a look beyond that door , David , he cried . 
Together we stepped out to stand in silent contemplation of a landscape at once weird and beautiful . 
Before us a low and level shore stretched down to a silent sea . 
Behind us rose a dark and forbidding wood of giant arborescent ferns intermingled with the commoner types of a primeval tropical forest . 
Huge creepers depended in great loops from tree to tree , dense under brush overgrew a tangled mass of fallen trunks and branches . 
Upon the outer verge we could see the same splendid coloring of countless blossoms that glorified the islands , but within the dense shadows all seemed dark and gloomy as the grave . 
And upon all the noonday sun poured its torrid rays out of a cloudless sky . 
Where on earth can we be ? I asked , turning to Perry . 
For some moments the old man did not reply . 
He stood with bowed head , buried in deep thought . 
But at last he spoke . 
David , he said , I am not so sure that we are ON earth . 
What do you mean Perry ? I cried . 
Do you think that we are dead , and this is heaven ? He smiled , and turning , pointing to the nose of the prospector protruding from the ground at our backs . 
But for that , David , I might believe that we were indeed come to the country beyond the Styx . 
The prospector renders that theory untenable it , certainly , could never have gone to heaven . 
However I am willing to concede that we actually may be in another world from that which we have always known . 
If we are not ON earth , there is every reason to believe that we may be IN it . 
We may have quartered through the earth's crust and come out upon some tropical island of the West Indies , I suggested . 
Again Perry shook his head . 
As we walked along the beach Perry gazed long and earnestly across the water . 
Evidently he was wrestling with a mighty problem . 
That was all there was no clear cut horizontal line marking the dip of the globe below the line of vision . 
A great light is commencing to break on me , continued Perry , taking out his watch . 
I believe that I have partially solved the riddle . 
It is now two o'clock . 
When we emerged from the prospector the sun was directly above us . 
Where is it now ? I glanced up to find the great orb still motionless in the center of the heaven . 
And such a sun ! I had scarcely noticed it before . 
My God , Perry , where are we ? I exclaimed . 
This thing is beginning to get on my nerves . 
I think that I may state quite positively , David , he commenced , that we are but he got no further . 
From behind us in the vicinity of the prospector there came the most thunderous , awe inspiring roar that ever had fallen upon my ears . 
With one accord we turned to discover the author of that fearsome noise . 
Had I still retained the suspicion that we were on earth the sight that met my eyes would quite entirely have banished it . 
Emerging from the forest was a colossal beast which closely resembled a bear . 
It was fully as large as the largest elephant and with great forepaws armed with huge claws . 
Its nose , or snout , depended nearly a foot below its lower jaw , much after the manner of a rudimentary trunk . 
The giant body was covered by a coat of thick , shaggy hair . 
Roaring horribly it came toward us at a ponderous , shuffling trot . 
I had never guessed what latent speed possibilities the old gentleman possessed . 
I set off after Perry , though at a somewhat more decorous pace . 
Notwithstanding our danger I could not help but laugh at Perry's frantic capers as he essayed to gain the safety of the lower branches of the trees he now had reached . 
At length he spied a dangling creeper about the bigness of one's wrist , and when I reached the trees he was racing madly up it , hand over hand . 
He had almost reached the lowest branch of the tree from which the creeper depended when the thing parted beneath his weight and he fell sprawling at my feet . 
The misfortune now was no longer amusing , for the beast was already too close to us for comfort . 
It was the great size of the thing alone that saved me . 
The few seconds of grace that this gave me found me safely lodged in the branches of a tree a few paces from that in which Perry had at last found a haven . 
Did I say safely lodged ? At the time I thought we were quite safe , and so did Perry . 
It was with a deep sigh of relief that I saw him gain a higher branch in safety . 
And then the brute did that which froze us both anew with horror . 
Grasping the tree's stem with his powerful paws he dragged down with all the great weight of his huge bulk and all the irresistible force of those mighty muscles . 
Slowly , but surely , the stem began to bend toward him . 
Inch by inch he worked his paws upward as the tree leaned more and more from the perpendicular . 
Perry clung chattering in a panic of terror . 
Higher and higher into the bending and swaying tree he clambered . 
More and more rapidly was the tree top inclining toward the ground . 
I saw now why the great brute was armed with such enormous paws . 
The use that he was putting them to was precisely that for which nature had intended them . 
The sloth like creature was herbivorous , and to feed that mighty carcass entire trees must be stripped of their foliage . 
The reason for its attacking us might easily be accounted for on the supposition of an ugly disposition such as that which the fierce and stupid rhinoceros of Africa possesses . 
But these were later reflections . 
At the moment I was too frantic with apprehension on Perry's behalf to consider aught other than a means to save him from the death that loomed so close . 
There were many close by which not even the terrific strength of that titanic monster could bend . 
My plan worked like magic . 
From the previous slowness of the beast I had been led to look for no such marvelous agility as he now displayed . 
As it started in pursuit of me I made the mistake of running along the edge of the forest rather than making for the open beach . 
In a moment I was knee deep in rotting vegetation , and the awful thing behind me was gaining rapidly as I floundered and fell in my efforts to extricate myself . 
But the zigzag course that this necessitated was placing such a heavy handicap upon me that my pursuer was steadily gaining upon me . 
Suddenly from behind I heard a tumult of howls , and sharp , piercing barks much the sound that a pack of wolves raises when in full cry . 
But these were not all that my startled eyes perceived . 
Chattering and gibbering through the lower branches of the trees came a company of manlike creatures evidently urging on the dog pack . 
They were to all appearances strikingly similar in aspect to the Negro of Africa . 
Behind them trailed long , slender tails which they used in climbing quite as much as they did either their hands or feet . 
I had stumbled to my feet the moment that I discovered that the wolf dogs were holding the dyryth at bay . 
There they fell to examining me with the utmost excitement and curiosity . 
They picked at my clothing , my hair , and my flesh . 
They turned me about to see if I had a tail , and when they discovered that I was not so equipped they fell into roars of laughter . 
Their teeth were very large and white and even , except for the upper canines which were a trifle longer than the others protruding just a bit when the mouth was closed . 
Apelike , they essayed to don the apparel themselves , but their ingenuity was not sufficient to the task and so they gave it up . 
I was much exercised by fear that something had befallen him , and though I called his name aloud several times there was no response . 
Never have I experienced such a journey before or since even now I oftentimes awake from a deep sleep haunted by the horrid remembrance of that awful experience . 
As they bore me along , my mind was occupied with a thousand bewildering thoughts . 
But yet where else ? I had not left that earth of that I was sure . 
Still neither could I reconcile the things which I had seen to a belief that I was still in the world of my birth . 
With a sigh I gave it up . 
III A CHANGE OF MASTERS WE MUST HAVE TRAVELED SEVERAL MILES THROUGH the dark and dismal wood when we came suddenly upon a dense village built high among the branches of the trees . 
Again I was the center of a wildly chattering horde . 
I was pulled this way and that . 
Presently they dragged me within the village , which consisted of several hundred rude shelters of boughs and leaves supported upon the branches of the trees . 
There were a number of the same vicious wolf dogs which we had left worrying the dyryth , and many goatlike animals whose distended udders explained the reasons for their presence . 
My guard halted before one of the huts into which I was pushed then two of the creatures squatted down before the entrance to prevent my escape , doubtless . 
Though where I should have escaped to I certainly had not the remotest conception . 
I had no more than entered the dark shadows of the interior than there fell upon my ears the tones of a familiar voice , in prayer . 
Dear old Perry ! Thank the Lord you are safe . 
David ! Can it be possible that you escaped ? And the old man stumbled toward me and threw his arms about me . 
He had seen me fall before the dyryth , and then he had been seized by a number of the ape creatures and borne through the tree tops to their village . 
His captors had been as inquisitive as to his strange clothing as had mine , with the same result . 
As we looked at each other we could not help but laugh . 
With a tail , David , remarked Perry , you would make a very handsome ape . 
Maybe we can borrow a couple , I rejoined . 
They seem to be quite the thing this season . 
I wonder what the creatures intend doing with us , Perry . 
They don't seem really savage . 
We have made a magnificent discovery , my boy ! We have proved that the earth is hollow . 
We have passed entirely through its crust to the inner world . 
Perry , you are mad ! Not at all , David . 
For two hundred and fifty miles our prospector bore us through the crust beneath our outer world . 
At that point it reached the center of gravity of the five hundred mile thick crust . 
Up to that point we had been descending direction is , of course , merely relative . 
How in the world can the sun shine through five hundred miles of solid crust ? It is not the sun of the outer world that we see here . 
It is another sun an entirely different sun that casts its eternal noonday effulgence upon the face of the inner world . 
Look at it now , David if you can see it from the doorway of this hut and you will see that it is still in the exact center of the heavens . 
We have been here for many hours yet it is still noon . 
And withal it is very simple , David . 
The earth was once a nebulous mass . 
It cooled , and as it cooled it shrank . 
At length a thin crust of solid matter formed upon its outer surface a sort of shell but within it was partially molten matter and highly expanded gases . 
As it continued to cool , what happened ? Centrifugal force hurled the particles of the nebulous center toward the crust as rapidly as they approached a solid state . 
You have seen the same principle practically applied in the modern cream separator . 
Presently there was only a small super heated core of gaseous matter remaining within a huge vacant interior left by the contraction of the cooling gases . 
The equal attraction of the solid crust from all directions maintained this luminous core in the exact center of the hollow globe . 
What remains of it is the sun you saw today a relatively tiny thing at the exact center of the earth . 
Equally to every part of this inner world it diffuses its perpetual noonday light and torrid heat . 
Take the great beast which attacked us , for example . 
Unquestionably a counterpart of the Megatherium of the post Pliocene period of the outer crust , whose fossilized skeleton has been found in South America . 
But the grotesque inhabitants of this forest ? I urged . 
Surely they have no counterpart in the earth's history . 
Who can tell ? he rejoined . 
Further speculation was interrupted by the appearance of several of our captors before the entrance of the hut . 
Two of them entered and dragged us forth . 
The perilous pathways and the surrounding trees were filled with the black ape men , their females , and their young . 
There was not an ornament , a weapon , or a garment among the lot . 
Quite low in the scale of creation , commented Perry . 
Quite high enough to play the deuce with us , though , I replied . 
Now what do you suppose they intend doing with us ? We were not long in learning . 
Twice my bearers missed their footing , and my heart ceased beating as we plunged toward instant death among the tangled deadwood beneath . 
But on both occasions those lithe , powerful tails reached out and found sustaining branches , nor did either of the creatures loosen their grasp upon me . 
Our watches were gone , and we were living beneath a stationary sun . 
Already I was puzzled to compute the period of time which had elapsed since we broke through the crust of the inner world . 
Presently the forest terminated , and we came out upon a level plain . 
A short distance before us rose a few low , rocky hills . 
Toward these our captors urged us , and after a short time led us through a narrow pass into a tiny , circular valley . 
Here they got down to work , and we were soon convinced that if we were not to die to make a Roman holiday , we were to die for some other purpose . 
The attitude of our captors altered immediately as they entered the natural arena within the rocky hills . 
Grim ferocity marked their bestial faces bared fangs menaced us . 
We were placed in the center of the amphitheater the thousand creatures forming a great ring about us . 
Then a wolf dog was brought hyaenadon Perry called it and turned loose with us inside the circle . 
The thing's body was as large as that of a full grown mastiff , its legs were short and powerful , and its jaws broad and strong . 
Dark , shaggy hair covered its back and sides , while its breast and belly were quite white . 
As it slunk toward us it presented a most formidable aspect with its upcurled lips baring its mighty fangs . 
Perry was on his knees , praying . 
I stooped and picked up a small stone . 
At my movement the beast veered off a bit and commenced circling us . 
Evidently it had been a target for stones before . 
The ape things were dancing up and down urging the brute on with savage cries , until at last , seeing that I did not throw , he charged us . 
At Andover , and later at Yale , I had pitched on winning ball teams . 
As I wound up for the delivery , I held my nerves and muscles under absolute command , though the grinning jaws were hurtling toward me at terrific speed . 
And then I let go , with every ounce of my weight and muscle and science in back of that throw . 
The stone caught the hyaenodon full upon the end of the nose , and sent him bowling over upon his back . 
As I looked , the ape things broke in all directions toward the surrounding hills , and then I distinguished the real cause of their perturbation . 
Like demons they set upon the ape things , and before them the hyaenodon , which had now regained its senses and its feet , fled howling with fright . 
Past us swept the pursued and the pursuers , nor did the hairy ones accord us more than a passing glance until the arena had been emptied of its former occupants . 
Then they returned to us , and one who seemed to have authority among them directed that we be brought with them . 
With little ceremony Perry and I were chained at the end of the line , and without further ado the interrupted march was resumed . 
On and on we stumbled beneath that hateful noonday sun . 
If we fell we were prodded with a sharp point . 
Our companions in chains did not stumble . 
They strode along proudly erect . 
Occasionally they would exchange words with one another in a monosyllabic language . 
They were a noble appearing race with well formed heads and perfect physiques . 
The men were heavily bearded , tall and muscular the women , smaller and more gracefully molded , with great masses of raven hair caught into loose knots upon their heads . 
The features of both sexes were well proportioned there was not a face among them that would have been called even plain if judged by earthly standards . 
They wore no ornaments but this I later learned was due to the fact that their captors had stripped them of everything of value . 
As garmenture the women possessed a single robe of some light colored , spotted hide , rather similar in appearance to a leopard's skin . 
This they wore either supported entirely about the waist by a leathern thong , so that it hung partially below the knee on one side , or possibly looped gracefully across one shoulder . 
Their feet were shod with skin sandals . 
The men wore loin cloths of the hide of some shaggy beast , long ends of which depended before and behind nearly to the ground . 
In some instances these ends were finished with the strong talons of the beast from which the hides had been taken . 
Our guards , whom I already have described as gorilla like men , were rather lighter in build than a gorilla , but even so they were indeed mighty creatures . 
Their only redeeming feature lay in the development of the head above and back of the ears . 
In this respect they were not one whit less human than we . 
They were clothed in a sort of tunic of light cloth which reached to the knees . 
Beneath this they wore only a loin cloth of the same material , while their feet were shod with thick hide of some mammoth creature of this inner world . 
Their arms and necks were encircled by many ornaments of metal silver predominating and on their tunics were sewn the heads of tiny reptiles in odd and rather artistic designs . 
They talked among themselves as they marched along on either side of us , but in a language which I perceived differed from that employed by our fellow prisoners . 
How far we marched I have no conception , nor has Perry . 
Both of us were asleep much of the time for hours before a halt was called then we dropped in our tracks . 
I say for hours , but how may one measure time where time does not exist ! When our march commenced the sun stood at zenith . 
When we halted our shadows still pointed toward nadir . 
Whether an instant or an eternity of earthly time elapsed who may say . 
IV DIAN THE BEAUTIFUL WHEN OUR GUARDS AROUSED US FROM SLEEP WE were much refreshed . 
Strips of dried meat it was , but it put new life and strength into us , so that now we too marched with high held heads , and took noble strides . 
At least I did , for I was young and proud but poor Perry hated walking . 
The country began to change at last , and we wound up out of the level plain through mighty mountains of virgin granite . 
Crystal streams roared through their rocky channels , fed by the perpetual snows which we could see far above us . 
Above the snowcapped heights hung masses of heavy clouds . 
It was these , Perry explained , which evidently served the double purpose of replenishing the melting snows and protecting them from the direct rays of the sun . 
Directly ahead of me in the chain gang was a young woman . 
Three feet of chain linked us together in a forced companionship which I , at least , soon rejoiced in . 
How came you here ? I asked her . 
I was running away from Jubal the Ugly One , she answered , as though that was explanation quite sufficient . 
Who is Jubal the Ugly One ? I asked . 
And why did you run away from him ? She looked at me in surprise . 
Why DOES a woman run away from a man ? she answered my question with another . 
They do not , where I come from , I replied . 
Sometimes they run after them . 
But she could not understand . 
Nor could I get her to grasp the fact that I was of another world . 
She was quite as positive that creation was originated solely to produce her own kind and the world she lived in as are many of the outer world . 
But Jubal , I insisted . 
Tell me about him , and why you ran away to be chained by the neck and scourged across the face of a world . 
Jubal the Ugly One placed his trophy before my father's house . 
It was the head of a mighty tandor . 
It remained there and no greater trophy was placed beside it . 
So I knew that Jubal the Ugly One would come and take me as his mate . 
None other so powerful wished me , or they would have slain a mightier beast and thus have won me from Jubal . 
My father is not a mighty hunter . 
Once he was , but a sadok tossed him , and never again had he the full use of his right arm . 
My brother , Dacor the Strong One , had gone to the land of Sari to steal a mate for himself . 
And there these Sagoths found me and made me captive . 
What will they do with you ? I asked . 
Where are they taking us ? Again she looked her incredulity . 
I can almost believe that you are of another world , she said , for otherwise such ignorance were inexplicable . 
But she did her very best to enlighten me , though much that she said was as Greek would have been to her . 
She described the Mahars largely by comparisons . 
In this way they were like unto thipdars , in that to the hairless lidi . 
The Sagoths were their weapons of offense and defense , and the races like herself were their hands and feet they were the slaves and servants who did all the manual labor . 
The Mahars were the heads the brains of the inner world . 
I longed to see this wondrous race of supermen . 
Perry learned the language with me . 
Ahead of Ghak was Hooja the Sly One . 
He too entered the conversation occasionally . 
Most of his remarks were directed toward Dian the Beautiful . 
It didn't take half an eye to see that he had developed a bad case but the girl appeared totally oblivious to his thinly veiled advances . 
By comparison with this method Hooja's lovemaking might be called thinly veiled . 
But the girl ! She was magnificent . 
It was easy to see that she considered herself as entirely above and apart from her present surroundings and company . 
Phutra , it seemed , was the city of our destination . 
After passing over the first chain of mountains we skirted a salt sea , upon whose bosom swam countless horrid things . 
Seal like creatures there were with long necks stretching ten and more feet above their enormous bodies and whose snake heads were split with gaping mouths bristling with countless fangs . 
There were huge tortoises too , paddling about among these other reptiles , which Perry said were Plesiosaurs of the Lias . 
I didn't question his veracity they might have been most anything . 
They resembled a whale with the head of an alligator . 
And Perry ! He was absolutely flabbergasted . 
David , he remarked , after we had marched for a long time beside that awful sea . 
For a moment she stood thus in silence , and then her head went high , and she turned her back upon me as she had upon Hooja . 
Some of the prisoners laughed , and I saw the face of Ghak the Hairy One go very black as he looked at me searchingly . 
And what I could see of Dian's cheek went suddenly from red to white . 
Thereafter I confined my conversation to Perry . 
Hooja did not renew his advances toward the girl , nor did he again venture near me . 
Again the weary and apparently interminable marching became a perfect nightmare of horrors to me . 
But I was very young and would not ask Ghak for the explanation which I was sure he could give , and that might have made everything all right again . 
On the march , or during halts , Dian refused consistently to notice me when her eyes wandered in my direction she looked either over my head or directly through me . 
At last I became desperate , and determined to swallow my self esteem , and again beg her to tell me how I had offended , and how I might make reparation . 
I made up my mind that I should do this at the next halt . 
The guards had no torches or light of any description . 
In fact we had seen no artificial light or sign of fire since we had entered Pellucidar . 
In a land of perpetual noon there is no need of light above ground , yet I marveled that they had no means of lighting their way through these dark , subterranean passages . 
Halts were now more frequent , but I did not wish to speak to Dian until I could see from the expression of her face how she was receiving my apologies . 
At last a faint glow ahead forewarned us of the end of the tunnel , for which I for one was devoutly thankful . 
Then at a sudden turn we emerged into the full light of the noonday sun . 
But with it came a sudden realization of what meant to me a real catastrophe Dian was gone , and with her a half dozen other prisoners . 
The guards saw it too , and the ferocity of their rage was terrible to behold . 
Their awesome , bestial faces were contorted in the most diabolical expressions , as they accused each other of responsibility for the loss . 
Finally they fell upon us , beating us with their spear shafts , and hatchets . 
They had already killed two near the head of the line , and were like to have finished the balance of us when their leader finally put a stop to the brutal slaughter . 
Never in all my life had I witnessed a more horrible exhibition of bestial rage I thanked God that Dian had not been one of those left to endure it . 
Of the twelve prisoners who had been chained ahead of me each alternate one had been freed commencing with Dian . 
What could it mean ? How had it been accomplished ? The commander of the guards was investigating . 
Soon he discovered that the rude locks which had held the neckbands in place had been deftly picked . 
Hooja the Sly One , murmured Ghak , who was now next to me in line . 
He has taken the girl that you would not have , he continued , glancing at me . 
That I would not have ! I cried . 
What do you mean ? He looked at me closely for a moment . 
I have doubted your story that you are from another world , he said at last , but yet upon no other grounds could your ignorance of the ways of Pellucidar be explained . 
Do you really mean that you do not know that you offended the Beautiful One , and how ? I do not know , Ghak , I replied . 
Then shall I tell you . 
When a man of Pellucidar intervenes between another man and the woman the other man would have , the woman belongs to the victor . 
Dian the Beautiful belongs to you . 
You should have claimed her or released her . 
By doing neither you have put upon her the greatest affront that a man may put upon a woman . 
Now she is your slave . 
I did not know , Ghak , I cried . 
Not for all Pellucidar would I have harmed Dian the Beautiful by word , or look , or act of mine . 
I do not want her as my slave . 
I do not want her as my but here I stopped . 
I had not thought of her except as a welcome friend in a strange , cruel world . 
Even now I did not think that I loved her . 
I believe Ghak must have read the truth more in my expression than in my words , for presently he laid his hand upon my shoulder . 
Man of another world , he said , I believe you . 
Lips may lie , but when the heart speaks through the eyes it tells only the truth . 
Your heart has spoken to me . 
I know now that you meant no affront to Dian the Beautiful . 
She is not of my tribe but her mother is my sister . 
Then was her father king of Amoz , and her mother was daughter of the king of Sari to whose power I , his son , have succeeded . 
Dian is the daughter of kings , though her father is no longer king since the sadok tossed him and Jubal the Ugly One wrested his kingship from him . 
Because of her lineage the wrong you did her was greatly magnified in the eyes of all who saw it . 
She will never forgive you . 
I asked Ghak if there was not some way in which I could release the girl from the bondage and ignominy I had unwittingly placed upon her . 
If ever you find her , yes , he answered . 
Hooja the Sly One escaped and took the others with him , replied Ghak . 
But there are no more dark places on the way to Phutra , and once there it is not so easy the Mahars are very wise . 
Even if one escaped from Phutra there are the thipdars they would find you , and then the Hairy One shuddered . 
No , you will never escape the Mahars . 
It was a cheerful prospect . 
I asked Perry what he thought about it but he only shrugged his shoulders and continued a longwinded prayer he had been at for some time . 
He was wont to say that the only redeeming feature of our captivity was the ample time it gave him for the improvisation of prayers it was becoming an obsession with him . 
The Sagoths had begun to take notice of his habit of declaiming throughout entire marches . 
One of them asked him what he was saying to whom he was talking . 
The question gave me an idea , so I answered quickly before Perry could say anything . 
Do not interrupt him , I said . 
He is a very holy man in the world from which we come . 
I took a long chance , I realized , but if we could make any capital out of Perry's harmless mania I wanted to make it while the making was prime . 
The Sagoths treated us both with marked respect during the balance of the journey , and then passed the word along to their masters , the Mahars . 
Two marches after this episode we came to the city of Phutra . 
The entrance to it was marked by two lofty towers of granite , which guarded a flight of steps leading to the buried city . 
Sagoths were on guard here as well as at a hundred or more other towers scattered about over a large plain . 
V SLAVES AS WE DESCENDED THE BROAD STAIRCASE WHICH led to the main avenue of Phutra I caught my first sight of the dominant race of the inner world . 
Involuntarily I shrank back as one of the creatures approached to inspect us . 
A more hideous thing it would be impossible to imagine . 
The all powerful Mahars of Pellucidar are great reptiles , some six or eight feet in length , with long narrow heads and great round eyes . 
I glanced at Perry as the thing passed me to inspect him . 
The old man was gazing at the horrid creature with wide astonished eyes . 
When it passed on , he turned to me . 
As we continued on through the main avenue of Phutra we saw many thousand of the creatures coming and going upon their daily duties . 
They paid but little attention to us . 
Phutra is laid out underground with a regularity that indicates remarkable engineering skill . 
It is hewn from solid limestone strata . 
The streets are broad and of a uniform height of twenty feet . 
In like manner air is introduced . 
The method of communication between these two was remarkable in that no spoken words were exchanged . 
They employed a species of sign language . 
As I was to learn later , the Mahars have no ears , not any spoken language . 
Among themselves they communicate by means of what Perry says must be a sixth sense which is cognizant of a fourth dimension . 
I never did quite grasp him , though he endeavored to explain it to me upon numerous occasions . 
What they do , said Perry , is to project their thoughts into the fourth dimension , when they become appreciable to the sixth sense of their listener . 
Do I make myself quite clear ? You do not , Perry , I replied . 
He shook his head in despair , and returned to his work . 
They had set us to carrying a great accumulation of Maharan literature from one apartment to another , and there arranging it upon shelves . 
During this period my thoughts were continually upon Dian the Beautiful . 
I often wondered if the little party of fugitives had been overtaken by the guards who had returned to search for them . 
So great were the number of slaves who waited upon the inhabitants of Phutra that none of us was apt to be overburdened with work , nor were our masters unkind to us . 
We hid our new weapons beneath the skins which formed our beds , and then Perry conceived the idea of making bows and arrows weapons apparently unknown within Pellucidar . 
Next came shields but these I found it easier to steal from the walls of the outer guardroom of the building . 
Dian and two others had eluded them . 
It so happened that Hooja was confined in the same building with us . 
He told Ghak that he had not seen Dian or the others after releasing them within the dark grotto . 
What had become of them he had not the faintest conception they might be wandering yet , lost within the labyrinthine tunnel , if not dead from starvation . 
During my waking hours she was constantly the subject of my thoughts , and when I slept her dear face haunted my dreams . 
More than ever was I determined to escape the Mahars . 
That was the excuse I made for Perry's benefit . 
Diminutive world ! he scoffed . 
You don't know what you are talking about , my boy , and then he showed me a map of Pellucidar which he had recently discovered among the manuscript he was arranging . 
Look , he cried , pointing to it , this is evidently water , and all this land . 
Do you notice the general configuration of the two areas ? Where the oceans are upon the outer crust , is land here . 
These relatively small areas of ocean follow the general lines of the continents of the outer world . 
We know that the crust of the globe is miles in thickness then the inside diameter of Pellucidar must be , miles , and the superficial area , , square miles . 
Three fourths of this is land . 
It quite took my breath away but I found that it left me all the more determined to attempt it . 
If Ghak will accompany us we may be able to do it , I suggested . 
Perry and I sought him out and put the question straight to him . 
Ghak , I said , we are determined to escape from this bondage . 
Could you find your way back to your own land ? asked Perry . 
And could you aid David in his search for Dian ? Yes . 
He seemed surprised to think that we found anything wonderful in it . 
Perry said it must be some sort of homing instinct such as is possessed by certain breeds of earthly pigeons . 
I didn't know , of course , but it gave me an idea . 
Then Dian could have found her way directly to her own people ? I asked . 
Surely , replied Ghak , unless some mighty beast of prey killed her . 
I was for making the attempted escape at once , but both Perry and Ghak counseled waiting for some propitious accident which would insure us some small degree of success . 
I didn't see what accident could befall a whole community in a land of perpetual daylight where the inhabitants had no fixed habits of sleep . 
Perry says that if a Mahar stays awake for three years he will make up all his lost sleep in a long year's snooze . 
At first I thought they were dead , but later their regular breathing convinced me of my error . 
Like a flash the thought came to me of the marvelous opportunity these sleeping reptiles offered as a means of eluding the watchfulness of our captors and the Sagoth guards . 
Hastening back to Perry where he pored over a musty pile of , to me , meaningless hieroglyphics , I explained my plan to him . 
To my surprise he was horrified . 
It would be murder , David , he cried . 
Murder to kill a reptilian monster ? I asked in astonishment . 
Here they are not monsters , David , he replied . 
Here they are the dominant race we are the 'monsters' the lower orders . 
In Pellucidar evolution has progressed along different lines than upon the outer earth . 
These terrible convulsions of nature time and time again wiped out the existing species but for this fact some monster of the Saurozoic epoch might rule today upon our own world . 
We see here what might well have occurred in our own history had conditions been what they have been here . 
Life within Pellucidar is far younger than upon the outer crust . 
Here man has but reached a stage analogous to the Stone Age of our own world's history , but for countless millions of years these reptiles have been progressing . 
They breed them most carefully , and when they are quite fat , they kill and eat them . 
What is there horrible about it , David ? the old man asked . 
They understand us no better than we understand the lower animals of our own world . 
Why , I have come across here very learned discussions of the question as to whether gilaks , that is men , have any means of communication . 
One writer claims that we do not even reason that our every act is mechanical , or instinctive . 
The dominant race of Pellucidar , David , have not yet learned that men converse among themselves , or reason . 
Because we do not converse as they do it is beyond them to imagine that we converse at all . 
It is thus that we reason in relation to the brutes of our own world . 
They know that the Sagoths have a spoken language , but they cannot comprehend it , or how it manifests itself , since they have no auditory apparatus . 
They believe that the motions of the lips alone convey the meaning . 
That the Sagoths can communicate with us is incomprehensible to them . 
Yes , David , he concluded , it would entail murder to carry out your plan . 
Very well then , Perry . 
I shall become a murderer . 
Listen , I have learned much of a most surprising nature from these archives of the Mahars . 
That you may not appreciate my plan I shall briefly outline the history of the race . 
Once the males were all powerful , but ages ago the females , little by little , assumed the mastery . 
For other ages no noticeable change took place in the race of Mahars . 
It continued to progress under the intelligent and beneficent rule of the ladies . 
This was especially true of the sciences which we know as biology and eugenics . 
What happened ? Immediately the necessity for males ceased to exist the race was no longer dependent upon them . 
More ages elapsed until at the present time we find a race consisting exclusively of females . 
But here is the point . 
The secret of this chemical formula is kept by a single race of Mahars . 
For two reasons they hide it away and guard it jealously . 
Why , we two would be the means of placing the men of the inner world in their rightful place among created things . 
At one step we may carry them from the Age of Stone to the twentieth century . 
It's marvelous absolutely marvelous just to think about it . 
Ghak had entered the apartment some time before we concluded our conversation , and now he wanted to know what we were so excited about . 
Perry thought we had best not tell him too much , and so I only explained that I had a plan for escape . 
When I had outlined it to him , he seemed about as horror struck as Perry had been but for a different reason . 
VI THE BEGINNING OF HORROR WITHIN PELLUCIDAR ONE TIME IS AS GOOD AS ANOTHER . 
There were no nights to mask our attempted escape . 
All must be done in broad daylight all but the work I had to do in the apartment beneath the building . 
Other Sagoths were darting hither and thither in search of other slaves , and the moment that we appeared we were pounced upon and hustled into the line of marching humans . 
Ghak thought so too , as did Perry . 
Is there naught that we may do to save her ? I asked Ghak . 
Along the crowded avenue we marched , the guards showing unusual cruelty toward us , as though we , too , had been implicated in the murder of their fellow . 
They jabbed us with their spears and struck at us with the hatchets at the least provocation , and at no provocation at all . 
Benches surrounded this open space upon three sides , and along the fourth were heaped huge bowlders which rose in receding tiers toward the roof . 
These were the reserved seats , the boxes of the elect . 
Reptiles that they are , the rough surface of a great stone is to them as plush as upholstery to us . 
Here they lolled , blinking their hideous eyes , and doubtless conversing with one another in their sixth sense fourth dimension language . 
For the first time I beheld their queen . 
Here she squatted , a most repulsive and uninteresting queen though doubtless quite as well assured of her beauty and divine right to rule as the proudest monarch of the outer world . 
And then the music started music without sound ! The Mahars cannot hear , so the drums and fifes and horns of earthly bands are unknown among them . 
The band consists of a score or more Mahars . 
It filed out in the center of the arena where the creatures upon the rocks might see it , and there it performed for fifteen or twenty minutes . 
They beat their great wings up and down , and smote their rocky perches with their mighty tails until the ground shook . 
Then the band started another piece , and all was again as silent as the grave . 
That was one great beauty about Mahar music if you didn't happen to like a piece that was being played all you had to do was shut your eyes . 
When the band had exhausted its repertory it took wing and settled upon the rocks above and behind the queen . 
Then the business of the day was on . 
A man and woman were pushed into the arena by a couple of Sagoth guardsmen . 
I leaned forward in my seat to scrutinize the female hoping against hope that she might prove to be another than Dian the Beautiful . 
Her back was toward me for a while , and the sight of the great mass of raven hair piled high upon her head filled me with alarm . 
Presently a door in one side of the arena wall was opened to admit a huge , shaggy , bull like creature . 
A Bos , whispered Perry , excitedly . 
His kind roamed the outer crust with the cave bear and the mammoth ages and ages ago . 
But for Perry and Ghak I should have leaped to the floor of the arena and shared whatever fate lay in store for this priceless treasure of the Stone Age . 
With the advent of the Bos they call the thing a thag within Pellucidar two spears were tossed into the arena at the feet of the prisoners . 
It seemed to me that a bean shooter would have been as effective against the mighty monster as these pitiful weapons . 
And now , as the two stood frozen in terror , I saw the author of that fearsome sound creeping stealthily into view . 
It was a huge tiger such as hunted the great Bos through the jungles primeval when the world was young . 
In contour and markings it was not unlike the noblest of the Bengals of our own world , but as its dimensions were exaggerated to colossal proportions so too were its colorings exaggerated . 
Its vivid yellows fairly screamed aloud its whites were as eider down its blacks glossy as the finest anthracite coal , and its coat long and shaggy as a mountain goat . 
That it is a beautiful animal there is no gainsaying , but if its size and colors are magnified here within Pellucidar , so is the ferocity of its disposition . 
Upon one side of the doomed pair the thag bellowed and advanced , and upon the other tarag , the frightful , crept toward them with gaping mouth and dripping fangs . 
The man seized the spears , handing one of them to the woman . 
At the sound of the roaring of the tiger the bull's bellowing became a veritable frenzy of rageful noise . 
There ensued a battle royal which for sustained and frightful ferocity transcends the power of imagination or description . 
The tiger was now upon the bull's broad back , clinging to the huge neck with powerful fangs while its long , strong talons ripped the heavy hide into shreds and ribbons . 
It was with difficulty that the girl avoided the first mad rush of the wounded animal . 
All its efforts to rid itself of the tiger seemed futile , until in desperation it threw itself upon the ground , rolling over and over . 
The great cat clawed at the shaggy head until eyes and ears were gone , and naught but a few strips of ragged , bloody flesh remained upon the skull . 
As the animal's fierce clawing ceased , the bull raised his gory , sightless head , and with a horrid roar ran headlong across the arena . 
Swinging his bloody horns from side to side the beast cut a wide swath before him straight upward toward our seats . 
Before him slaves and gorilla men fought in mad stampede to escape the menace of the creature's death agonies , for such only could that frightful charge have been . 
Forgetful of us , our guards joined in the general rush for the exits , many of which pierced the wall of the amphitheater behind us . 
I ran to the right , passing several exits choked with the fear mad mob that were battling to escape . 
One would have thought that an entire herd of thags was loose behind them , rather than a single blinded , dying beast but such is the effect of panic upon a crowd . 
I thought of Perry , but for the hope that I might better encompass his release if myself free I should have put the thought of freedom from me at once . 
Without thought of the possible consequence , I darted into the shadows of the tunnel , feeling my way along through the gloom for some distance . 
The noises of the amphitheater had grown fainter and fainter until now all was as silent as the tomb about me . 
Cautiously I crept up the stairway to the tunnel's end , and peering out saw the broad plain of Phutra before me . 
The numerous lofty , granite towers which mark the several entrances to the subterranean city were all in front of me behind , the plain stretched level and unbroken to the nearby foothills . 
I had come to the surface , then , beyond the city , and my chances for escape seemed much enhanced . 
Perry says that the force of gravity is less upon the surface of the inner world than upon that of the outer . 
He explained it all to me once , but I was never particularly brilliant in such matters and so most of it has escaped me . 
The more I thought of Perry the less pleasure I took in my new found freedom . 
Just how I was to help Perry I could scarce imagine , but I hoped that some fortuitous circumstance might solve the problem for me . 
Behind me no sign of pursuit developed , before me I saw no living thing . 
It was as though I moved through a dead and forgotten world . 
Beside me frolicked a laughing brooklet , hurrying upon its noisy way down to the silent sea . 
In its quieter pools I discovered many small fish , of four or five pound weight I should imagine . 
In appearance , except as to size and color , they were not unlike the whale of our own seas . 
Then I drank from the clear pool , and after washing my hands and face continued my flight . 
Above the source of the brook I encountered a rugged climb to the summit of a long ridge . 
Beyond was a steep declivity to the shore of a placid , inland sea , upon the quiet surface of which lay several beautiful islands . 
The thing was a hollowed log drawn upon the sands , and in the bottom of it lay a crude paddle . 
The speed of the fellow seemed to preclude the possibility of escaping him upon the open beach . 
Then I grasped the paddle , and with feverish haste urged the awkward , wobbly thing out upon the surface of the sea . 
A glance over my shoulder showed me that the copper colored one had plunged in after me and was swimming rapidly in pursuit . 
I had covered some hundred yards from shore when it became evident that my pursuer must grasp the stern of the skiff within the next half dozen strokes . 
In a frenzy of despair , I bent to the grandfather of all paddles in a hopeless effort to escape , and still the copper giant behind me gained and gained . 
His hand was reaching upward for the stern when I saw a sleek , sinuous body shoot from the depths below . 
As I looked at that hopeless struggle my eyes met those of the doomed man , and I could have sworn that in his I saw an expression of hopeless appeal . 
But whether I did or not there swept through me a sudden compassion for the fellow . 
He was indeed a brother man , and that he might have killed me with pleasure had he caught me was forgotten in the extremity of his danger . 
Unconsciously I had ceased paddling as the serpent rose to engage my pursuer , so now the skiff still drifted close beside the two . 
The monster seemed to be but playing with his victim before he closed his awful jaws upon him and dragged him down to his dark den beneath the surface to devour him . 
The huge , snakelike body coiled and uncoiled about its prey . 
The hideous , gaping jaws snapped in the victim's face . 
The forked tongue , lightning like , ran in and out upon the copper skin . 
At last I could endure no longer to sit supinely by while a fellowman was dragged down to a horrible death by that repulsive reptile . 
Embedded in the prow of the skiff lay the spear that had been cast after me by him whom I suddenly desired to save . 
With a wrench I tore it loose , and standing upright in the wobbly log drove it with all the strength of my two arms straight into the gaping jaws of the hydrophidian . 
VIII THE MAHAR TEMPLE THE ABORIGINE , APPARENTLY UNINJURED , CLIMBED quickly into the skiff , and seizing the spear with me helped to hold off the infuriated creature . 
Blood from the wounded reptile was now crimsoning the waters about us and soon from the weakening struggles it became evident that I had inflicted a death wound upon it . 
Presently its efforts to reach us ceased entirely , and with a few convulsive movements it turned upon its back quite dead . 
And then there came to me a sudden realization of the predicament in which I had placed myself . 
I was entirely within the power of the savage man whose skiff I had stolen . 
What was in his mind I do not know , but in my own was merely the question as to how soon the fellow would recommence hostilities . 
Presently he spoke to me , but in a tongue which I was unable to translate . 
To my delight he understood and answered me in the same jargon . 
What do you want of my spear ? he asked . 
Only to keep you from running it through me , I replied . 
But it was ever thus . 
So I gave it up and asked him about himself . 
He said he was a Mezop , and that his name was Ja . 
Who are the Mezops ? I asked . 
Where do they live ? He looked at me in surprise . 
I might indeed believe that you were from another world , he said , for who of Pellucidar could be so ignorant ! The Mezops live upon the islands of the seas . 
At any rate in this sea and those near by it is true that only people of my race inhabit the islands . 
We are fishermen , though we be great hunters as well , often going to the mainland in search of the game that is scarce upon all but the larger islands . 
And we are warriors also , he added proudly . 
Even the Sagoths of the Mahars fear us . 
Now they give us certain things which we are unable to produce in return for the fish that we catch , and the Mezops and the Mahars live in peace . 
The great ones even come to our islands . 
It is there , far from the prying eyes of their own Sagoths , that they practice their religious rites in the temples they have builded there with our assistance . 
As Ja talked I had an excellent opportunity to inspect him more closely . 
He had the aquiline nose found among many of the higher tribes , the prominent cheek bones , and black hair and eyes , but his mouth and lips were better molded . 
All in all , Ja was an impressive and handsome creature , and he talked well too , even in the miserable makeshift language we were compelled to use . 
During our conversation Ja had taken the paddle and was propelling the skiff with vigorous strokes toward a large island that lay some half mile from the mainland . 
As we touched the pretty , level beach Ja leaped out and I followed him . 
Together we dragged the skiff far up into the bushes that grew beyond the sand . 
The upward curve of the surface of Pellucidar was constantly revealing the impossible to the surprised eyes of the outer earthly . 
Then he would pass again across some media which would reveal no spoor , to take up the broken thread of the trail beyond . 
Large trees had been chopped down fifteen or twenty feet above the ground , and upon the tops of them spherical habitations of woven twigs , mud covered , had been built . 
Each ball like house was surmounted by some manner of carven image , which Ja told me indicated the identity of the owner . 
Horizontal slits , six inches high and two or three feet wide , served to admit light and ventilation . 
The entrances to the house were through small apertures in the bases of the trees and thence upward by rude ladders through the hollow trunks to the rooms above . 
The houses varied in size from two to several rooms . 
The largest that I entered was divided into two floors and eight apartments . 
All about the village , between it and the jungle , lay beautifully cultivated fields in which the Mezops raised such cereals , fruits , and vegetables as they required . 
Women and children were working in these gardens as we crossed toward the village . 
At sight of Ja they saluted deferentially , but to me they paid not the slightest attention . 
Among them and about the outer verge of the cultivated area were many warriors . 
These too saluted Ja , by touching the points of their spears to the ground directly before them . 
Ja conducted me to a large house in the center of the village the house with eight rooms and taking me up into it gave me food and drink . 
There I met his mate , a comely girl with a nursing baby in her arms . 
We are not supposed to visit it , he said but the great ones cannot hear and if we keep well out of sight they need never know that we have been there . 
I wholly concurred in Ja's belief , but it seemed that it might be a difficult matter to exterminate the dominant race of Pellucidar . 
Here was a mighty temple of hewn rock built in the shape of a rough oval with rounded roof in which were several large openings . 
But , added Ja , there is an entrance near the base of which even the Mahars know nothing . 
Come , and he led me across the clearing and about the end to a pile of loose rock which lay against the foot of the wall . 
We are within the outer wall , said Ja . 
The red man groped ahead a few paces and then began to ascend a primitive ladder similar to that which leads from the ground to the upper stories of his house . 
The lower floor was an enormous tank of clear water in which numerous hideous Mahars swam lazily up and down . 
Artificial islands of granite rock dotted this artificial sea , and upon several of them I saw men and women like myself . 
What are the human beings doing here ? I asked . 
Wait and you shall see , replied Ja . 
They are to take a leading part in the ceremonies which will follow the advent of the queen . 
You may be thankful that you are not upon the same side of the wall as they . 
There were several Mahars first , and then at least twenty awe inspiring pterodactyls thipdars , they are called within Pellucidar . 
Behind these came the queen , flanked by other thipdars as she had been when she entered the amphitheater at Phutra . 
Three times they wheeled about the interior of the oval chamber , to settle finally upon the damp , cold bowlders that fringe the outer edge of the pool . 
In the center of one side the largest rock was reserved for the queen , and here she took her place surrounded by her terrible guard . 
All lay quiet for several minutes after settling to their places . 
One might have imagined them in silent prayer . 
The poor slaves upon the diminutive islands watched the horrid creatures with wide eyes . 
The men , for the most part , stood erect and stately with folded arms , awaiting their doom but the women and children clung to one another , hiding behind the males . 
All they lack is opportunity . 
We have opportunity , and little else . 
She raised her ugly head , looking about then very slowly she crawled to the edge of her throne and slid noiselessly into the water . 
Nearer and nearer to the island she came until at last she remained at rest before the largest , which was directly opposite her throne . 
Raising her hideous head from the water she fixed her great , round eyes upon the slaves . 
The queen fixed her gaze upon a plump young maiden . 
Slowly the reptile's head commenced to move to and fro , but the eyes never ceased to bore toward the frightened girl , and then the victim responded . 
To the water's edge she came , nor did she even pause , but stepped into the shallows beside the little island . 
On she moved toward the Mahar , who now slowly retreated as though leading her victim on . 
The water rose to the girl's knees , and still she advanced , chained by that clammy eye . 
Now the water was at her waist now her armpits . 
Her fellows upon the island looked on in horror , helpless to avert her doom in which they saw a forecast of their own . 
Now the water passed above the girl's mouth and nose her eyes and forehead all that showed yet still she walked on after the retreating Mahar . 
The queen's head slowly disappeared beneath the surface and after it went the eyes of her victim only a slow ripple widened toward the shores to mark where the two vanished . 
For a time all was silence within the temple . 
The slaves were motionless in terror . 
The Mahars watched the surface of the water for the reappearance of their queen , and presently at one end of the tank her head rose slowly into view . 
She was backing toward the surface , her eyes fixed before her as they had been when she dragged the helpless girl to her doom . 
The next time they appeared the other arm was gone , and then the breasts , and then a part of the face it was awful . 
Finally the queen was under much longer than ever before , and when she rose she came alone and swam sleepily toward her bowlder . 
I thought the Mahars seldom , if ever , slept , I said to Ja . 
They do many things in this temple which they do not do elsewhere , he replied . 
The Mahars of Phutra are not supposed to eat human flesh , yet slaves are brought here by thousands and almost always you will find Mahars on hand to consume them . 
They would not think of eating the meat of a thag , which we consider such a delicacy , any more than I would think of eating a snake . 
As a matter of fact it is difficult to explain just why this sentiment should exist among them . 
I wonder if they left a single victim , I remarked , leaning far out of the opening in the rocky wall to inspect the temple better . 
My hands were resting upon a small piece of granite which formed a part of the wall , and all my weight upon it proved too much for it . 
It slipped and I lunged forward . 
There was nothing to save myself and I plunged headforemost into the water below . 
As long as I could I remained beneath the surface , swimming rapidly in the direction of the islands that I might prolong my life to the utmost . 
You have no conception of the strange contradictions and impossibilities which arise when all methods of measuring time , as we know them upon earth , are non existent . 
But they did not come , and at last I came to the conclusion that I was indeed alone within the temple . 
How long I should be alone was the next question to assail me as I swam frantically about once more in search of a means to escape . 
Several times I called to Ja , but he must have left after I tumbled into the tank , for I received no response to my cries . 
Whatever dangers lay hidden in this island jungle , there could be none so fearsome as those which I had just escaped . 
I knew that I could meet death bravely enough if it but came in the form of some familiar beast or man anything other than the hideous and uncanny Mahars . 
IX THE FACE OF DEATH I MUST HAVE FALLEN ASLEEP FROM EXHAUSTION . 
When I awoke I was very hungry , and after busying myself searching for fruit for a while , I set off through the jungle to find the beach . 
I can tell you that it did not take me long to pull that awkward craft down to the water and shove it far out from shore . 
My experience with Ja had taught me that if I were to steal another canoe I must be quick about it and get far beyond the owner's reach as soon as possible . 
I must have come out upon the opposite side of the island from that at which Ja and I had entered it , for the mainland was nowhere in sight . 
For a long time I paddled around the shore , though well out , before I saw the mainland in the distance . 
Had Perry been dead , I should gladly have pitted my strength and wit against the savage and primordial world in which I found myself . 
And Ghak , too the great , shaggy man had found a place in the hearts of us both , for he was indeed every inch a man and king . 
Uncouth , perhaps , and brutal , too , if judged too harshly by the standards of effete twentieth century civilization , but withal noble , dignified , chivalrous , and loveable . 
The next turn of the canyon brought me to its mouth , and before me I saw a narrow plain leading down to an ocean . 
Clumps of strange trees dotted the landscape here and there almost to the water , and rank grass and ferns grew between . 
Curiosity prompted me to walk down to the beach , for the scene was very beautiful . 
For countless ages it had rolled up and down its countless miles of shore , and yet today it remained all unknown beyond the tiny strip that was visible from its beaches . 
The fascination of speculation was strong upon me . 
It was as though I had been carried back to the birth time of our own outer world to look upon its lands and seas ages before man had traversed either . 
Here was a new world , all untouched . 
It called to me to explore it . 
As I turned , romance , adventure , and discovery in the abstract took wing before the terrible embodiment of all three in concrete form that I beheld advancing upon me . 
A huge , slimy amphibian it was , with toad like body and the mighty jaws of an alligator . 
Its immense carcass must have weighed tons , and yet it moved swiftly and silently toward me . 
And there I was , unarmed , and , with the exception of a loin cloth , as naked as I had come into the world . 
To seek escape in the swamp or in the ocean would have been similar to jumping into a den of lions to escape one upon the outside . 
There seemed nothing to do but stand supinely and await my end . 
I thought of Perry how he would wonder what had become of me . 
And with these thoughts came a realization of how unimportant to the life and happiness of the world is the existence of any one of us . 
We may be snuffed out without an instant's warning , and for a brief day our friends speak of us with subdued voices . 
The labyrinthodon was coming more slowly now . 
I had no idea that I should escape the monster that had marked me for his breakfast , but at least I should not die alone . 
Human eyes would watch me end . 
It was cold comfort I presume , but yet I derived some slight peace of mind from the contemplation of it . 
Instead he merely trotted along behind me . 
As I approached the foot of the cliff I saw what Ja intended doing , but I doubted if the thing would prove successful . 
But he insisted that he knew what he was doing and was in no danger himself . 
When he saw me clambering up that spear he let out a hiss that fairly shook the ground , and came charging after me at a terrific rate . 
With the pain he snapped his mouth closed . 
Scarce had I touched the earth than I was upon my feet , dashing madly for the path by which I had entered this horrible valley . 
When he did not discover me in sight within the valley he dashed , hissing into the rank vegetation of the swamp and that was the last I saw of him . 
X PHUTRA AGAIN I HASTENED TO THE CLIFF EDGE ABOVE JA AND helped him to a secure footing . 
He would not listen to any thanks for his attempt to save me , which had come so near miscarrying . 
I had no difficulty in tracking you to this point . 
It is well that I arrived when I did . 
But why did you do it ? I asked , puzzled at this show of friendship on the part of a man of another world and a different race and color . 
You saved my life , he replied from that moment it became my duty to protect and befriend you . 
I would have been no true Mezop had I evaded my plain duty but it was a pleasure in this instance for I like you . 
I wish that you would come and live with me . 
You shall become a member of my tribe . 
Among us there is the best of hunting and fishing , and you shall have , to choose a mate from , the most beautiful girls of Pellucidar . 
Will you come ? I told him about Perry then , and Dian the Beautiful , and how my duty was to them first . 
Afterward I should return and visit him if I could ever find his island . 
Oh , that is easy , my friend , he said . 
You need merely to come to the foot of the highest peak of the Mountains of the Clouds . 
There you will find a river which flows into the Lural Az . 
But how am I to find the Mountains of the Clouds ? I asked . 
Men say that they are visible from half Pellucidar , he replied . 
How large is Pellucidar ? I asked , wondering what sort of theory these primitive men had concerning the form and substance of their world . 
No , Pellucidar is quite flat and extends no man knows how far in all directions . 
However , it is quite reasonable to believe that this is true , whereas there is no reason at all in the foolish belief of the Mahars . 
According to them Pellucidarians who live upon the opposite side walk always with their heads pointed downward ! and Ja laughed uproariously at the very thought . 
I wondered how many ages it would take to lift these people out of their ignorance even were it given to Perry and me to attempt it . 
Possibly we would be killed for our pains as were those men of the outer world who dared challenge the dense ignorance and superstitions of the earth's younger days . 
But it was worth the effort if the opportunity ever presented itself . 
You live upon the under side of Pellucidar , and walk always with your head pointed downward ? he scoffed . 
And were I to believe that , my friend , I should indeed be mad . 
He listened so intently that I thought I had made an impression , and started the train of thought that would lead him to a partial understanding of the truth . 
Your own illustration , he said finally , proves the falsity of your theory . 
He dropped a fruit from his hand to the ground . 
See , he said , without support even this tiny fruit falls until it strikes something that stops it . 
You would return to captivity ? cried Ja . 
My friends are there , I replied , the only friends I have in Pellucidar , except yourself . 
What else may I do under the circumstances ? He thought for a moment in silence . 
Then he shook his head sorrowfully . 
Never in all my life have I heard of a prisoner returning to the Mahars of his own free will . 
There are but few who escape them , though some do , and these would rather die than be recaptured . 
I see no other way , Ja , I said , though I can assure you that I would rather go to Sheol after Perry than to Phutra . 
However , Perry is much too pious to make the probability at all great that I should ever be called upon to rescue him from the former locality . 
All the dead who are buried in the ground go there . 
Piece by piece they are carried down to Molop Az by the little demons who dwell there . 
We know this because when graves are opened we find that the bodies have been partially or entirely borne off . 
If we kill an enemy we place his body in the ground that it may go to Molop Az . 
As we talked we had been walking up the canyon down which I had come to the great ocean and the sithic . 
To my surprise the distance was but short from the beach where I had again met Ja . 
I was sorry to part with Ja , for I had come to like him very much indeed . 
There was , however , one great thing to be accomplished first at least it was the great thing to me the finding of Dian the Beautiful . 
Down the hillside I made my way into the gorgeous field of flowers , and then across the rolling land toward the shadowless columns that guard the ways to buried Phutra . 
At a quarter mile from the nearest entrance I was discovered by the Sagoth guard , and in an instant four of the gorilla men were dashing toward me . 
Though they brandished their long spears and yelled like wild Comanches I paid not the slightest attention to them , walking quietly toward them as though unaware of their existence . 
My manner had the effect upon them that I had hoped , and as we came quite near together they ceased their savage shouting . 
But why do you return , having once made good your escape ? I did not 'escape' , I replied . 
I but ran away to avoid the thag , as did others , and coming into a long passage I became confused and lost my way in the foothills beyond Phutra . 
Only now have I found my way back . 
And you come of your free will back to Phutra ! exclaimed one of the guardsmen . 
Where else might I go ? I asked . 
I am a stranger within Pellucidar and know no other where than Phutra . 
I had spoken to the Sagoths as I had for the purpose of throwing them off the scent of my purposed attempt at escape . 
So they led me before a slimy Mahar who clung to a slimy rock within the large room that was the thing's office . 
With cold , reptilian eyes the creature seemed to bore through the thin veneer of my deceit and read my inmost thoughts . 
It heeded the story which the Sagoths told of my return to Phutra , watching the gorilla men's lips and fingers during the recital . 
Then it questioned me through one of the Sagoths . 
I could be in no more danger here , I said , than naked and unarmed in the savage jungles or upon the lonely plains of Pellucidar . 
I was fortunate , I think , to return to Phutra at all . 
As it was I barely escaped death within the jaws of a huge sithic . 
No , I am sure that I am safer in the hands of intelligent creatures such as rule Phutra . 
At least such would be the case in my own world , where human beings like myself rule supreme . 
There the higher races of man extend protection and hospitality to the stranger within their gates , and being a stranger here I naturally assumed that a like courtesy would be accorded me . 
The Mahar looked at me in silence for some time after I ceased speaking and the Sagoth had translated my words to his master . 
The creature seemed deep in thought . 
Presently he communicated some message to the Sagoth . 
The latter turned , and motioning me to follow him , left the presence of the reptile . 
Behind and on either side of me marched the balance of the guard . 
What are they going to do with me ? I asked the fellow at my right . 
You are to appear before the learned ones who will question you regarding this strange world from which you say you come . 
After a moment's silence he turned to me again . 
Then be careful that you don't repeat the impossible tale you told Sol to to just now another world , indeed , where human beings rule ! he concluded in fine scorn . 
But it is the truth , I insisted . 
From where else then did I come ? I am not of Pellucidar . 
Anyone with half an eye could see that . 
It is your misfortune then , he remarked dryly , that you may not be judged by one with but half an eye . 
And what will they do with me there ? I persisted . 
No one knows except the Mahars and those who go to the pits with them , but as the latter never return , their knowledge does them but little good . 
It is said that the learned ones cut up their subjects while they are yet alive , thus learning many useful things . 
However I should not imagine that it would prove very useful to him who was being cut up but of course this is all but conjecture . 
The chances are that ere long you will know much more about it than I , and he grinned as he spoke . 
The Sagoths have a well developed sense of humor . 
And suppose it is the arena , I continued what then ? You saw the two who met the tarag and the thag the time that you escaped ? he said . 
Your end in the arena would be similar to what was intended for them , he explained , though of course the same kinds of animals might not be employed . 
It is sure death in either event ? I asked . 
They gained their liberty ? And how ? It is the custom of the Mahars to liberate those who remain alive within the arena after the beasts depart or are killed . 
Upon the left shoulder of each a mark was burned the mark of the Mahars which will forever protect these two from slaving parties . 
To my surprise they returned me to the same building in which I had been confined with Perry and Ghak before my escape . 
At the doorway I was turned over to the guards there . 
He will doubtless be called before the investigators shortly , said he who had brought me back , so have him in readiness . 
My first act was to hunt up Perry whom I found poring as usual over the great tomes that he was supposed to be merely dusting and rearranging upon new shelves . 
As I entered the room he glanced up and nodded pleasantly to me , only to resume his work as though I had never been away at all . 
I was both astonished and hurt at his indifference . 
Perry , you ARE mad , I exclaimed . 
Why , the Lord only knows how long I have been away . 
I must have been away for months , Perry , and now you barely look up from your work when I return and insist that we have been separated but a moment . 
The old man looked at me for a long time before he spoke . 
There was a puzzled expression upon his wrinkled face , and a look of hurt sorrow in his eyes . 
David , my boy , he said , how could you for a moment doubt my love for you ? There is something strange here that I cannot understand . 
You are positive that months have gone by , while to me it seems equally certain that not more than an hour ago I sat beside you in the amphitheater . 
Can it be that both of us are right and at the same time both are wrong ? First tell me what time is , and then maybe I can solve our problem . 
Do you catch my meaning ? I didn't and said so . 
Yes , continued the old man , we are both right . 
To me , bent over my book here , there has been no lapse of time . 
Why , the Mahars themselves take no account of such a thing as time . 
I find here in all their literary works but a single tense , the present . 
There seems to be neither past nor future with them . 
Of course it is impossible for our outer earthly minds to grasp such a condition , but our recent experiences seem to demonstrate its existence . 
Come ! commanded the intruder , beckoning to me . 
The investigators would speak with you . 
Good bye , Perry ! I said , clasping the old man's hand . 
Tears came to Perry's eyes . 
I cannot believe but that you will return , David , he said . 
It would be awful to think of living out the balance of my life without you among these hateful and repulsive creatures . 
If you are taken away I shall never escape , for I feel that I am as well off here as I should be anywhere within this buried world . 
XI FOUR DEAD MAHARS A MOMENT LATER I WAS STANDING BEFORE A DOZEN Mahars the social investigators of Phutra . 
They asked me many questions , through a Sagoth interpreter . 
I answered them all truthfully . 
They seemed particularly interested in my account of the outer earth and the strange vehicle which had brought Perry and me to Pellucidar . 
I thought that I had convinced them , and after they had sat in silence for a long time following my examination , I expected to be ordered returned to my quarters . 
During this apparent silence they were debating through the medium of strange , unspoken language the merits of my tale . 
At last the head of the tribunal communicated the result of their conference to the officer in charge of the Sagoth guard . 
Do you mean that they do not believe me ? I asked , totally astonished . 
Believe you ! he laughed . 
At a low level we came upon a number of lighted chambers in which we saw many Mahars engaged in various occupations . 
To one of these chambers my guard escorted me , and before leaving they chained me to a side wall . 
There were other humans similarly chained . 
Upon a long table lay a victim even as I was ushered into the room . 
Several Mahars stood about the poor creature holding him down so that he could not move . 
Another , grasping a sharp knife with her three toed fore foot , was laying open the victim's chest and abdomen . 
No anesthetic had been administered and the shrieks and groans of the tortured man were terrible to hear . 
This , indeed , was vivisection with a vengeance . 
Cold sweat broke out upon me as I realized that soon my turn would come . 
So deeply immersed were they in their work that I am sure they did not even know that the Sagoths had entered with me . 
The door was close by . 
Would that I could reach it ! But those heavy chains precluded any such possibility . 
I looked about for some means of escape from my bonds . 
Upon the floor between me and the Mahars lay a tiny surgical instrument which one of them must have dropped . 
It looked not unlike a button hook , but was much smaller , and its point was sharpened . 
A hundred times in my boyhood days had I picked locks with a buttonhook . 
Could I but reach that little bit of polished steel I might yet effect at least a temporary escape . 
Crawling to the limit of my chain , I found that by reaching one hand as far out as I could my fingers still fell an inch short of the coveted instrument . 
It was tantalizing ! Stretch every fiber of my being as I would , I could not quite make it . 
At last I turned about and extended one foot toward the object . 
Slowly and cautiously I made the effort . 
My toes dropped upon the cold metal . 
Gradually I worked it toward me until I felt that it was within reach of my hand and a moment later I had turned about and the precious thing was in my grasp . 
Assiduously I fell to work upon the Mahar lock that held my chain . 
A child might have picked it , and a moment later I was free . 
The Mahars were now evidently completing their work at the table . 
One already turned away and was examining other victims , evidently with the intention of selecting the next subject . 
Those at the table had their backs toward me . 
But for the creature walking toward us I might have escaped that moment . 
Slowly the thing approached me , when its attention was attracted by a huge slave chained a few yards to my right . 
Where I was , or whither I was going , I knew not . 
My only thought was to place as much distance as possible between me and that frightful chamber of torture . 
I could have shouted aloud in joy and relief . 
It was the same corridor and the same Mahars that I had intended to have lead so important a role in our escape from Phutra . 
Providence had indeed been kind to me , for the reptiles still slept . 
My one great danger now lay in returning to the upper levels in search of Perry and Ghak , but there was nothing else to be done , and so I hastened upward . 
Thus disguised I found Perry and Ghak together in the chamber where we had been wont to eat and sleep . 
Both were glad to see me , it was needless to say , though of course they had known nothing of the fate that had been meted out to me by my judges . 
Together we repaired to the first tier of corridors beneath the main floor of the buildings , and here Perry and Ghak halted to await me . 
The buildings are cut out of the solid limestone formation . 
There is nothing at all remarkable about their architecture . 
The rooms are sometimes rectangular , sometimes circular , and again oval in shape . 
The corridors which connect them are narrow and not always straight . 
The chambers are lighted by diffused sunlight reflected through tubes similar to those by which the avenues are lighted . 
The lower the tiers of chambers , the darker . 
Most of the corridors are entirely unlighted . 
The Mahars can see quite well in semidarkness . 
There was but a single entrance leading from the place into the avenue and this was well guarded by Sagoths this doorway alone were we forbidden to pass . 
Wrapped in a skin I carried three swords , and the two bows , and the arrows which Perry and I had fashioned . 
As many slaves bore skin wrapped burdens to and fro my load attracted no comment . 
Having come to the apartment in which the three Mahars slept I entered silently on tiptoe , forgetting that the creatures were without the sense of hearing . 
But I was too quick for it , and so , half hopping , half flying , it scurried down another corridor with me close upon its heels . 
Its escape meant the utter ruin of our plan , and in all probability my instant death . 
This thought lent wings to my feet but even at my best I could do no more than hold my own with the leaping thing before me . 
Of a sudden it turned into an apartment on the right of the corridor , and an instant later as I rushed in I found myself facing two of the Mahars . 
In an instant I realized what I had stumbled upon . 
It was the very room for the finding of which Perry had given me minute directions . 
It was the buried chamber in which was hidden the Great Secret of the race of Mahars . 
There was no exit from the room other than the doorway in which I now stood facing the two frightful reptiles . 
Cornered , I knew that they would fight like demons , and they were well equipped to fight if fight they must . 
I saw that it was useless to hope that I might release my arm from that powerful , viselike grip which seemed to be severing my arm from my body . 
The pain I suffered was intense , but it only served to spur me to greater efforts to overcome my antagonist . 
At last I was successful , and with what seemed to me my last ounce of strength I ran the blade through the ugly body of my foe . 
A single glance assured me it was the very thing that Perry had described to me . 
I thought of a beautiful oval face , gazing out of limpid eyes , through a waving mass of jet black hair . 
I thought of red , red lips , God made for kissing . 
And of a sudden , apropos of nothing , standing there alone in the secret chamber of the Mahars of Pellucidar , I realized that I loved Dian the Beautiful . 
A moment later they stood beside me , and to my surprise I saw that Hooja the Sly One accompanied them . 
He joined us , explained Perry , and would not be denied . 
The fellow is a fox . 
He scents escape , and rather than be thwarted of our chance now I told him that I would bring him to you , and let you decide whether he might accompany us . 
I had no love for Hooja , and no confidence in him . 
Very well , I said , you may come with us , Hooja but at the first intimation of treachery I shall run my sword through you . 
Do you understand ? He said that he did . 
We managed to keep the heads erect by passing our swords up through the necks , and by the same means were enabled to move them about in a life like manner . 
We had our greatest difficulty with the webbed feet , but even that problem was finally solved , so that when we moved about we did so quite naturally . 
Tiny holes punctured in the baggy throats into which our heads were thrust permitted us to see well enough to guide our progress . 
Thus we started up toward the main floor of the building . 
As the noise of hurrying feet warned me that we were entering the busy corridors of the main level , my heart came up into my mouth . 
If it be possible to sweat blood , I sweat it then . 
Slowly , after the manner of locomotion habitual to the Mahars , when they are not using their wings , we crept through throngs of busy slaves , Sagoths , and Mahars . 
After what seemed an eternity we reached the outer door which leads into the main avenue of Phutra . 
Many Sagoths loitered near the opening . 
They glanced at Ghak as he padded between them . 
Then Perry passed , and then Hooja . 
The guard stepped before me and pointing to my bleeding foot spoke to me in the sign language which these two races employ as a means of communication . 
Even had I known what he was saying I could not have replied with the dead thing that covered me . 
I once had seen a great Mahar freeze a presumptuous Sagoth with a look . 
It seemed my only hope , and so I tried it . 
Stopping in my tracks I moved my sword so that it made the dead head appear to turn inquiring eyes upon the gorilla man . 
For a long moment I stood perfectly still , eyeing the fellow with those dead eyes . 
Then I lowered the head and started slowly on . 
For a moment all hung in the balance , but before I touched him the guard stepped to one side , and I passed on out into the avenue . 
On we went up the broad street , but now we were safe for the very numbers of our enemies that surrounded us on all sides . 
Fortunately , there was a great concourse of Mahars repairing to the shallow lake which lies a mile or more from the city . 
They go there to indulge their amphibian proclivities in diving for small fish , and enjoying the cool depths of the water . 
It is a fresh water lake , shallow , and free from the larger reptiles which make the use of the great seas of Pellucidar impossible for any but their own kind . 
In the thick of the crowd we passed up the steps and out onto the plain . 
Then , still in our disguises , we set off directly away from Phutra . 
I shall not weary you with the details of that bitter and galling flight . 
How we traveled at a dogged run until we dropped in our tracks . 
How we were beset by strange and terrible beasts . 
How we barely escaped the cruel fangs of lions and tigers the size of which would dwarf into pitiful insignificance the greatest felines of the outer world . 
On and on we raced , our one thought to put as much distance between ourselves and Phutra as possible . 
Ghak was leading us to his own land the land of Sari . 
No sign of pursuit had developed , and yet we were sure that somewhere behind us relentless Sagoths were dogging our tracks . 
Ghak said they never failed to hunt down their quarry until they had captured it or themselves been turned back by a superior force . 
Our only hope , he said , lay in reaching his tribe which was quite strong enough in their mountain fastness to beat off any number of Sagoths . 
At last , after what seemed months , and may , I now realize , have been years , we came in sight of the dun escarpment which buttressed the foothills of Sari . 
It was the long expected pursuit . 
I asked Ghak if we could make Sari in time to escape them . 
We may , he replied but you will find that the Sagoths can move with incredible swiftness , and as they are almost tireless they are doubtless much fresher than we . 
Then he paused , glancing at Perry . 
I knew what he meant . 
The old man was exhausted . 
For much of the period of our flight either Ghak or I had half supported him on the march . 
With such a handicap , less fleet pursuers than the Sagoths might easily overtake us before we could scale the rugged heights which confronted us . 
You and Hooja go on ahead , I said . 
Perry and I will make it if we are able . 
We cannot travel as rapidly as you two , and there is no reason why all should be lost because of that . 
It can't be helped we have simply to face it . 
I will not desert a companion , was Ghak's simple reply . 
I hadn't known that this great , hairy , primeval man had any such nobility of character stowed away inside him . 
I had always liked him , but now to my liking was added honor and respect . 
No , he wouldn't leave us , and that was all there was to it , but he suggested that Hooja might hurry on and warn the Sarians of the king's danger . 
It didn't require much urging to start Hooja the naked idea was enough to send him leaping on ahead of us into the foothills which we now had reached . 
Ghak finally solved the problem , in part , by lifting Perry in his powerful arms and carrying him . 
While the act cut down Ghak's speed he still could travel faster thus than when half supporting the stumbling old man . 
XIII THE SLY ONE THE SAGOTHS WERE GAINING ON US RAPIDLY , FOR once they had sighted us they had greatly increased their speed . 
On and on we stumbled up the narrow canyon that Ghak had chosen to approach the heights of Sari . 
On either side rose precipitous cliffs of gorgeous , parti colored rock , while beneath our feet a thick mountain grass formed a soft and noiseless carpet . 
Ahead we neither saw nor heard any sign which might betoken the success of Hooja's mission . 
In another moment the frowning cliffs ahead should be black with primeval warriors . 
But nothing of the kind happened as a matter of fact the Sly One had betrayed us . 
The Sagoths were now not over two hundred and fifty yards behind us , and I saw that it was hopeless for us to expect to escape other than by a ruse . 
There was a bare chance of saving Ghak and Perry , and as I reached the branching of the canyon I took the chance . 
Pausing there I waited until the foremost Sagoth hove into sight . 
My ruse was successful , and the entire party of man hunters raced headlong after me up one canyon while Ghak bore Perry to safety up the other . 
The Sagoths were gaining on me rapidly . 
There was one in particular , fleeter than his fellows , who was perilously close . 
The canyon had become a rocky slit , rising roughly at a steep angle toward what seemed a pass between two abutting peaks . 
What lay beyond I could not even guess possibly a sheer drop of hundreds of feet into the corresponding valley upon the other side . 
As I fitted the shaft with my right hand I stopped and wheeled toward the gorilla man . 
The hard wood of the bow was extremely tough and this , with the strength and elasticity of my new string , gave me unwonted confidence in my weapon . 
Never had I greater need of steady nerves than then never were my nerves and muscles under better control . 
I sighted as carefully and deliberately as though at a straw target . 
My shaft was drawn back its full length my eye had centered its sharp point upon the left breast of my adversary and then he launched his hatchet and I released my arrow . 
At the instant that our missiles flew I leaped to one side , but the Sagoth sprang forward to follow up his attack with a spear thrust . 
Instead , he turned and retreated toward the main body of gorilla men . 
Evidently he had seen enough of me for the moment . 
Once more I took up my flight , nor were the Sagoths apparently overanxious to press their pursuit so closely as before . 
Before , the ledge continued until it passed from sight about another projecting buttress of the mountain . 
About me lay scattered stones crumbled from the cliff above . 
They were of various sizes and shapes , but enough were of handy dimensions for use as ammunition in lieu of my precious arrows . 
Gathering a number of stones into a little pile beside the mouth of the cave I waited the advance of the Sagoths . 
It might have been produced by the moving of the great body of some huge beast rising from the rock floor of its lair . 
At almost the same instant I thought that I caught the scraping of hide sandals upon the ledge beyond the turn . 
For the next few seconds my attention was considerably divided . 
And then from the inky blackness at my right I saw two flaming eyes glaring into mine . 
They were on a level that was over two feet above my head . 
Whatever it was , it was coming slowly toward the entrance of the cave , and now , deep and forbidding , it uttered a low and ominous growl . 
I waited no longer to dispute possession of the ledge with the thing which owned that voice . 
As the fellow saw me he leaped along the ledge in pursuit , and after him came as many of his companions as could crowd upon each other's heels . 
At the same time the beast emerged from the cave , so that he and the Sagoths came face to face upon that narrow ledge . 
As it sighted the Sagoths it emitted a most frightful roar , and with open mouth charged full upon them . 
With a cry of terror the foremost gorilla man turned to escape , but behind him he ran full upon his on rushing companions . 
The horror of the following seconds is indescribable . 
The Sagoth nearest the cave bear , finding his escape blocked , turned and leaped deliberately to an awful death upon the jagged rocks three hundred feet below . 
Then those giant jaws reached out and gathered in the next there was a sickening sound of crushing bones , and the mangled corpse was dropped over the cliff's edge . 
Nor did the mighty beast even pause in his steady advance along the ledge . 
Shrieking Sagoths were now leaping madly over the precipice to escape him , and the last I saw he rounded the turn still pursuing the demoralized remnant of the man hunters . 
Ghak was , of course , positive that I had fallen prey to the terrible creature , which , within Pellucidar , is truly the king of beasts . 
XIV THE GARDEN OF EDEN WITH NO HEAVENLY GUIDE , IT IS LITTLE WONDER that I became confused and lost in the labyrinthine maze of those mighty hills . 
What , in reality , I did was to pass entirely through them and come out above the valley upon the farther side . 
The cave which took my fancy lay halfway up the precipitous side of a lofty cliff . 
Yet it was with the utmost caution that I crawled within its dark interior . 
The cave was entirely empty , nor were there any signs of its having been recently occupied . 
The opening was comparatively small , so that after considerable effort I was able to lug up a bowlder from the valley below which entirely blocked it . 
I awoke rested but hungry , and pushing the bowlder aside crawled out upon the little rocky shelf which was my front porch . 
The valley itself was carpeted with a luxuriant grass , while here and there patches of wild flowers made great splashes of vivid color against the prevailing green . 
Dotted over the face of the valley were little clusters of palmlike trees three or four together as a rule . 
Beneath these stood antelope , while others grazed in the open , or wandered gracefully to a near by ford to drink . 
In size they remind one of a pure bred Hereford bull , yet they are very agile and fast . 
The broad yellow bands that stripe the dark roan of their coats made me take them for zebra when I first saw them . 
All in all they are handsome animals , and added the finishing touch to the strange and lovely landscape that spread before my new home . 
I had determined to make the cave my headquarters , and with it as a base make a systematic exploration of the surrounding country in search of the land of Sari . 
First I devoured the remainder of the carcass of the orthopi I had killed before my last sleep . 
The grazing herds moved to one side as I passed through them , the little orthopi evincing the greatest wariness and galloping to safest distances . 
All the animals stopped feeding as I approached , and after moving to what they considered a safe distance stood contemplating me with serious eyes and up cocked ears . 
Near the lower end of the valley I passed a number of tapirs , and across the river saw a great sadok , the enormous double horned progenitor of the modern rhinoceros . 
Here the ledge inclined rapidly upward toward the top of the cliffs the stratum which formed it evidently having been forced up at this steep angle when the mountains behind it were born . 
As I climbed carefully up the ascent my attention suddenly was attracted aloft by the sound of strange hissing , and what resembled the flapping of wings . 
And at the first glance there broke upon my horrified vision the most frightful thing I had seen even within Pellucidar . 
It was a giant dragon such as is pictured in the legends and fairy tales of earth folk . 
Its huge body must have measured forty feet in length , while the batlike wings that supported it in midair had a spread of fully thirty . 
Its gaping jaws were armed with long , sharp teeth , and its claw equipped with horrible talons . 
The hissing noise which had first attracted my attention was issuing from its throat , and seemed to be directed at something beyond and below me which I could not see . 
The ledge upon which I stood terminated abruptly a few paces farther on , and as I reached the end I saw the cause of the reptile's agitation . 
Some time in past ages an earthquake had produced a fault at this point , so that beyond the spot where I stood the strata had slipped down a matter of twenty feet . 
The result was that the continuation of my ledge lay twenty feet below me , where it ended as abruptly as did the end upon which I stood . 
The dragon was circling lower , and seemed about to dart in upon its prey . 
Almost thoughtless of the consequences , I leaped from the end of the ledge upon which I stood , for the tiny shelf twenty feet below . 
Dian ! Thank God that I came in time . 
You ? she whispered , and then she hid her face again nor could I tell whether she were glad or angry that I had come . 
Once more the dragon was sweeping toward us , and so rapidly that I had no time to unsling my bow . 
All that I could do was to snatch up a rock , and hurl it at the thing's hideous face . 
Again my aim was true , and with a hiss of pain and rage the reptile wheeled once more and soared away . 
Look at me , Dian , I pleaded . 
Are you not glad to see me ? She looked straight into my eyes . 
I hate you , she said , and then , as I was about to beg for a fair hearing she pointed over my shoulder . 
The thipdar comes , she said , and I turned again to meet the reptile . 
So this was a thipdar . 
I might have known it . 
The cruel bloodhound of the Mahars . 
The long extinct pterodactyl of the outer world . 
But this time I met it with a weapon it never had faced before . 
Hissing like the escape valve of a steam engine , the mighty creature fell turning and twisting into the sea below , my arrow buried completely in its carcass . 
I turned toward the girl . 
She was looking past me . 
It was evident that she had seen the thipdar die . 
Why do you hate me , Dian ? I asked , but she did not answer me . 
I was again running away from Jubal the Ugly One , she said . 
He has been pursuing me across many lands . 
He cannot be far behind me now . 
When he comes he will kill you and carry me back to his cave . 
He is a terrible man . 
I have gone as far as I can go , and there is no escape , and she looked hopelessly up at the continuation of the ledge twenty feet above us . 
But he shall not have me , she suddenly cried , with great vehemence . 
The sea is there she pointed over the edge of the cliff and the sea shall have me rather than Jubal . 
She had risen to her feet , and was looking straight into my eyes with level gaze . 
I tried to convince her that I was sincere , but she simply couldn't forget the humiliation that I had put upon her on that other occasion . 
If you mean all that you say you will have ample chance to prove it , she said , if Jubal does not catch and kill you . 
I am in your power , and the treatment you accord me will be the best proof of your intentions toward me . 
I am not your mate , and again I tell you that I hate you , and that I should be glad if I never saw you again . 
There was no gainsaying that . 
In fact I found candor and directness to be quite a marked characteristic of the cave men of Pellucidar . 
He it was who , armed with a puny knife , had met and killed a cave bear in a hand to hand struggle . 
It was Jubal who could cast his spear entirely through the armored carcass of the sadok at fifty paces . 
It was he who had crushed the skull of a charging dyryth with a single blow of his war club . 
This is how it happened . 
As we proceeded along the ledge I gave Dian minute directions for finding my cave against the chance of something happening to me . 
I knew that she would be quite safely hidden away from pursuit once she gained the shelter of my lair , and the valley would afford her ample means of sustenance . 
Also , I was very much piqued by her treatment of me . 
My heart was sad and heavy , and I wanted to make her feel badly by suggesting that something terrible might happen to me that I might , in fact , be killed . 
But it didn't work worth a cent , at least as far as I could perceive . 
Dian simply shrugged those magnificent shoulders of hers , and murmured something to the effect that one was not rid of trouble so easily as that . 
For a while I kept still . 
And to think that I had twice protected her from attack the last time risking my life to save hers . 
It was incredible that even a daughter of the Stone Age could be so ungrateful so heartless but maybe her heart partook of the qualities of her epoch . 
Presently we found a rift in the cliff which had been widened and extended by the action of the water draining through it from the plateau above . 
It gave us a rather rough climb to the summit , but finally we stood upon the level mesa which stretched back for several miles to the mountain range . 
At our right lay a dense forest , but to the left the country was open and clear to the plateau's farther verge . 
It was in this direction that our way led , and we had turned to resume our journey when Dian touched my arm . 
I turned to her , thinking that she was about to make peace overtures but I was mistaken . 
Jubal , she said , and nodded toward the forest . 
I looked , and there , emerging from the dense wood , came a perfect whale of a man . 
He must have been seven feet tall , and proportioned accordingly . 
He still was too far off to distinguish his features . 
Run , I said to Dian . 
I can engage him until you get a good start . 
Maybe I can hold him until you have gotten entirely away , and then , without a backward glance , I advanced to meet the Ugly One . 
When I had come close enough to Jubal to distinguish his features I understood how it was that he had earned the sobriquet of Ugly One . 
Apparently some fearful beast had ripped away one entire side of his face . 
The eye was gone , the nose , and all the flesh , so that his jaws and all his teeth were exposed and grinning through the horrible scar . 
And then the great brute launched his massive stone tipped spear , and I raised my shield to break the force of its terrific velocity . 
The impact hurled me to my knees , but the shield had deflected the missile and I was unscathed . 
Jubal was rushing upon me now with the only remaining weapon that he carried a murderous looking knife . 
He was too close for a careful bowshot , but I let drive at him as he came , without taking aim . 
My arrow pierced the fleshy part of his thigh , inflicting a painful but not disabling wound . 
And then he was upon me . 
My agility saved me for the instant . 
I ducked beneath his raised arm , and when he wheeled to come at me again he found a sword's point in his face . 
And a moment later he felt an inch or two of it in the muscles of his knife arm , so that thereafter he went more warily . 
Thrice he rushed me , and thrice I caught his knife blow upon my shield . 
Each time my sword found his body once penetrating to his lung . 
He was a most unlovely spectacle , but he was far from dead . 
But it was Jubal's day to learn new methods of warfare . 
Down went that great mountain of flesh sprawling upon the ground . 
By this time I think Jubal had gone mad with hate , for no sane man would have come back for more as many times as he did . 
If skill and science could render a comparative pygmy the master of this mighty brute , what could not the brute's fellows accomplish with the same skill and science . 
Why all Pellucidar would be at their feet and I would be their king and Dian their queen . 
Dian ! A little wave of doubt swept over me . 
It was quite within the possibilities of Dian to look down upon me even were I king . 
She was quite the most superior person I ever had met with the most convincing way of letting you know that she was superior . 
Girl ! I cried , what are you doing here ? I thought that you had gone to the cave , as I told you to do . 
Up went her head , and the look that she gave me took all the majesty out of me , and left me feeling more like the palace janitor if palaces have janitors . 
As you told me to do ! she cried , stamping her little foot . 
I do as I please . 
I am the daughter of a king , and furthermore , I hate you . 
I was dumbfounded this was my thanks for saving her from Jubal ! I turned and looked at the corpse . 
Let us go to my cave , I said , I am tired and hungry . 
She followed along a pace behind me , neither of us speaking . 
I was too angry , and she evidently didn't care to converse with the lower orders . 
Here we ate in silence . 
After our repast we went down to the river together and bathed our hands and faces , and then after drinking our fill went back to the cave . 
Without a word I crawled into the farthest corner and , curling up , was soon asleep . 
When I awoke I found Dian sitting in the doorway looking out across the valley . 
As I came out she moved to one side to let me pass , but she had no word for me . 
I wanted to hate her , but I couldn't . 
Every time I looked at her something came up in my throat , so that I nearly choked . 
I had never been in love before , but I did not need any aid in diagnosing my case I certainly had it and had it bad . 
What has he to do with it ? I asked . 
It is probable , she said , that they all will want revenge for the death of Jubal there are seven of them seven terrible men . 
Someone may have to kill them all , if I am to return to my people . 
It began to look as though I had assumed a contract much too large for me about seven sizes , in fact . 
Had Jubal any cousins ? I asked . 
It was just as well to know the worst at once . 
Yes , replied Dian , but they don't count they all have mates . 
Jubal's brothers have no mates because Jubal could get none for himself . 
He was so ugly that women ran away from him some have even thrown themselves from the cliffs of Amoz into the Darel Az rather than mate with the Ugly One . 
But what had that to do with his brothers ? I asked . 
I looked at her in utter amazement . 
It seemed incredible that even a prehistoric woman could be so cold and heartless and ungrateful . 
I shall leave you NOW , I said haughtily , I have had quite enough of your ingratitude and your insults , and then I turned and strode majestically down toward the valley . 
I had taken a hundred steps in absolute silence , and then Dian spoke . 
I hate you ! she shouted , and her voice broke in rage , I thought . 
I saw that Dian had left the ledge and gone within the cave , but I bolted right in after her . 
She was lying upon her face on the pile of grasses I had gathered for her bed . 
When she heard me enter she sprang to her feet like a tigress . 
I hate you ! she cried . 
I never said a word to her at first . 
I just strode across the cave and grasped her by the wrists , and when she struggled , I put my arm around her so as to pinion her hands to her sides . 
Dian , I cried , shaking her roughly , I love you . 
Then I realized that , very gently , she was trying to disengage her arms , and I loosened my grip upon them so that she could do so . 
Slowly they came up and stole about my neck , and then she drew my lips down to hers once more and held them there for a long time . 
Why didn't you do this at first , David ? I have been waiting so long . 
You said that you hated me ! Did you expect me to run into your arms , and say that I loved you before I knew that you loved me ? she asked . 
But I have told you right along that I love you , I said . 
Love speaks in acts , she replied . 
What a silly man you are , David ? Then you haven't hated me at all , Dian ? I asked . 
But I didn't spurn you , dear , I cried . 
I didn't know your ways I doubt if I do now . 
It seems incredible that you could have reviled me so , and yet have cared for me all the time . 
You might have known , she said , when I did not run away from you that it was not hate which chained me to you . 
But Jubal's brothers and cousins I reminded her , how about them ? She smiled , and hid her face on my shoulder . 
I had to tell you SOMETHING , David , she whispered . 
I must needs have SOME excuse for remaining near you . 
You little sinner ! I exclaimed . 
I couldn't come to you and demand that my love be returned , as you have just come to me . 
Just now when you went away hope went with you . 
I was wretched , terrified , miserable , and my heart was breaking . 
I wept , and I have not done that before since my mother died , and now I saw that there was the moisture of tears about her eyes . 
It was near to making me cry myself when I thought of all that poor child had been through . 
To me it was a revelation of the things my early forebears must have endured that the human race of the outer crust might survive . 
It made me very proud to think that I had won the love of such a woman . 
And she was all these things in spite of the fact that their observance entailed suffering and danger and possible death . 
How much easier it would have been to have gone to Jubal in the first place ! She would have been his lawful mate . 
I couldn't help but compare Dian's action with that of a splendid young woman I had known in New York I mean splendid to look at and to talk to . 
Yes , I was mighty proud of Dian . 
After a time we decided to set out for Sari , as I was anxious to see Perry , and to know that all was right with him . 
I had told Dian about our plan of emancipating the human race of Pellucidar , and she was fairly wild over it . 
She said that if Dacor , her brother , would only return he could easily be king of Amoz , and that then he and Ghak could form an alliance . 
That would give us a flying start , for the Sarians and the Amozites were both very powerful tribes . 
She was beginning to think that I was omnipotent although I really hadn't done anything but talk but that is the way with women when they love . 
The first time we started for Sari I stepped into a nest of poisonous vipers before we reached the valley . 
A little fellow stung me on the ankle , and Dian made me come back to the cave . 
As it was I must have been laid up for quite a while , though Dian's poultices of herbs and leaves finally reduced the swelling and drew out the poison . 
The episode proved most fortunate , however , as it gave me an idea which added a thousand fold to the value of my arrows as missiles of offense and defense . 
Later I shot a hyaenodon with one of these , and though my arrow inflicted but a superficial flesh wound the beast crumpled in death almost immediately after he was hit . 
UP is about the only direction which is well defined , and that , of course , is DOWN to you of the outer crust . 
Since the sun neither rises nor sets there is no method of indicating direction beyond visible objects such as high mountains , forests , lakes , and seas . 
We had barely entered the great plain when we discovered two enormous animals approaching us from a great distance . 
Their heads must have been quite forty feet from the ground . 
The beasts moved very slowly that is their action was slow but their strides covered such a great distance that in reality they traveled considerably faster than a man walks . 
As they drew still nearer we discovered that upon the back of each sat a human being . 
Then Dian knew what they were , though she never before had seen one . 
They are lidis from the land of the Thorians , she cried . 
Thoria lies at the outer verge of the Land of Awful Shadow . 
The Thorians alone of all the races of Pellucidar ride the lidi , for nowhere else than beside the dark country are they found . 
What is the Land of Awful Shadow ? I asked . 
It is the land which lies beneath the Dead World , replied Dian the Dead World which hangs forever between the sun and Pellucidar above the Land of Awful Shadow . 
It is the Dead World which makes the great shadow upon this portion of Pellucidar . 
When the two upon the lidis had come quite close to us we saw that one was a man and the other a woman . 
In an instant I was white with jealousy , but only for an instant since Dian quickly drew the man toward me , telling him that I was David , her mate . 
And this is my brother , Dacor the Strong One , David , she said to me . 
It appeared that the woman was Dacor's mate . 
Here to our immense delight , we found both Perry and Ghak . 
The old man was quite overcome at sight of me for he had long since given me up as dead . 
When I introduced Dian as my wife , he didn't quite know what to say , but he afterward remarked that with the pick of two worlds I could not have done better . 
Roughly , the various kingdoms were to remain virtually independent , but there was to be one great overlord , or emperor . 
It was decided that I should be the first of the dynasty of the emperors of Pellucidar . 
We set about teaching the women how to make bows and arrows , and poison pouches . 
The young men hunted the vipers which provided the virus , and it was they who mined the iron ore , and fashioned the swords under Perry's direction . 
We sent our young men out as instructors to every nation of the federation , and the movement had reached colossal proportions before the Mahars discovered it . 
The first intimation they had was when three of their great slave caravans were annihilated in rapid succession . 
They could not comprehend that the lower orders had suddenly developed a power which rendered them really formidable . 
They told us that the Mahars were frantic with rage when they discovered what had taken place in the cellars of the buildings . 
How long it would take for the race to become extinct it was impossible even to guess but that this must eventually happen seemed inevitable . 
The Mahars had offered fabulous rewards for the capture of any one of us alive , and at the same time had threatened to inflict the direst punishment upon whomever should harm us . 
The Sagoths could not understand these seemingly paradoxical instructions , though their purpose was quite evident to me . 
The Mahars wanted the Great Secret , and they knew that we alone could deliver it to them . 
We were both assured that the solution of these problems would advance the cause of civilization within Pellucidar thousands of years at a single stroke . 
Here we have all the labor and materials for reproducing anything that ever has been produced above what we lack is knowledge . 
Let us go back and get that knowledge in the shape of books then this world will indeed be at our feet . 
With a large force of men we marched to the great iron mole , which Perry soon had hoisted into position with its nose pointed back toward the outer crust . 
He went over all the machinery carefully . 
He replenished the air tanks , and manufactured oil for the engine . 
Dian and I were ready to embark , but I was anxious to witness the first clash between two fair sized armies of the opposing races of Pellucidar . 
Ghak and Dacor were both with us , having come primarily to view the prospector . 
I placed Ghak with some of his Sarians on the right of our battle line . 
Dacor took the left , while I commanded the center . 
Behind us I stationed a sufficient reserve under one of Ghak's head men . 
The Sagoths advanced steadily with menacing spears , and I let them come until they were within easy bowshot before I gave the word to fire . 
A second volley stopped them for an instant , and then my reserve sprang through the openings in the firing line to engage them with sword and shield . 
Ghak took his archers along the enemy's flank , and while the swordsmen engaged them in front , he poured volley after volley into their unprotected left . 
We pursued them for some time , taking many prisoners and recovering nearly a hundred slaves , among whom was Hooja the Sly One . 
And how he rewarded my generosity you will presently learn . 
At last I took my place in the driving seat , and called to one of the men without to fetch Dian . 
He deposited his burden in the seat beside me . 
I was all ready to get under way . 
The good byes had been said . 
Perry had grasped my hand in the last , long farewell . 
I closed and barred the outer and inner doors , took my seat again at the driving mechanism , and pulled the starting lever . 
Once more the thing was off . 
But on the instant of departure I was nearly thrown from my seat by the sudden lurching of the prospector . 
Where it would bring us out upon the upper crust I could not even conjecture . 
And then I turned to note the effect of this strange experience upon Dian . 
She still sat shrouded in the great skin . 
Come , come , I cried , laughing , come out of your shell . 
No Mahar eyes can reach you here , and I leaned over and snatched the lion skin from her . 
And then I shrank back upon my seat in utter horror . 
The thing beneath the skin was not Dian it was a hideous Mahar . 
Instantly I realized the trick that Hooja had played upon me , and the purpose of it . 
Rid of me , forever as he doubtless thought , Dian would be at his mercy . 
Frantically I tore at the steering wheel in an effort to turn the prospector back toward Pellucidar but , as on that other occasion , I could not budge the thing a hair . 
It is needless to recount the horrors or the monotony of that journey . 
It varied but little from the former one which had brought us from the outer to the inner world . 
For months I have been waiting here for a white man to come . 
The next day he took me out to see the prospector it was precisely as he had described it . 
There were books , rifles , revolvers , ammunition , cameras , chemicals , telephones , telegraph instruments , wire , tool and more books books upon every subject under the sun . 
He said he wanted a library with which they could reproduce the wonders of the twentieth century in the Stone Age and if quantity counts for anything I got it for him . 
I took the things back to Algeria myself , and accompanied them to the end of the railroad but from here I was recalled to America upon important business . 
Among the other things which I sent to Innes was over five hundred miles of double , insulated wire of a very fine gauge . 
I received several letters from him after I returned to America in fact he took advantage of every northward passing caravan to drop me word of some sort . 
His last letter was written the day before he intended to depart . 
MY DEAR FRIEND Tomorrow I shall set out in quest of Pellucidar and Dian . 
That is if the Arabs don't get me . 
They have been very nasty of late . 
I don't know the cause , but on two occasions they have threatened my life . 
One , more friendly than the rest , told me today that they intended attacking me tonight . 
It would be unfortunate should anything of that sort happen now that I am so nearly ready to depart . 
However , maybe I will be as well off , for the nearer the hour approaches , the slenderer my chances for success appear . 
Here is the friendly Arab who is to take this letter north for me , so good bye , and God bless you for your kindness to me . 
A year later found me at the end of the railroad once more , headed for the spot where I had left Innes . 
For months I searched that scorching land , interviewing countless desert sheiks in the hope that at last I might find one who had heard of Innes and his wonderful iron mole . 
Constantly my eyes scanned the blinding waste of sand for the ricky cairn beneath which I was to find the wires leading to Pellucidar but always was I unsuccessful . 
And always do these awful questions harass me when I think of David Innes and his strange adventures . 
