Edingburgh Picturesque Notes by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
uk EDINBURGH CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTORY . 
THE ancient and famous metropolis of the North sits overlooking a windy estuary from the slope and summit of three hills . 
No situation could be more commanding for the head city of a kingdom none better chosen for noble prospects . 
From her tall precipice and terraced gardens she looks far and wide on the sea and broad champaigns . 
But Edinburgh pays cruelly for her high seat in one of the vilest climates under heaven . 
The weather is raw and boisterous in winter , shifty and ungenial in summer , and a downright meteorological purgatory in the spring . 
The delicate die early , and I , as a survivor , among bleak winds and plumping rain , have been sometimes tempted to envy them their fate . 
Many such aspire angrily after that Somewhere else of the imagination , where all troubles are supposed to end . 
Venice , it has been said , differs from another cities in the sentiment which she inspires . 
The rest may have admirers she only , a famous fair one , counts lovers in her train . 
And , indeed , even by her kindest friends , Edinburgh is not considered in a similar sense . 
These like her for many reasons , not any one of which is satisfactory in itself . 
They like her whimsically , if you will , and somewhat as a virtuoso dotes upon his cabinet . 
Her attraction is romantic in the narrowest meaning of the term . 
Beautiful as she is , she is not so much beautiful as interesting . 
She is pre eminently Gothic , and all the more so since she has set herself off with some Greek airs , and erected classic temples on her crags . 
In a word , and above all , she is a curiosity . 
The Palace of Holyrood has been left aside in the growth of Edinburgh , and stands grey and silent in a workman's quarter and among breweries and gas works . 
It is a house of many memories . 
Great people of yore , kings and queens , buffoons and grave ambassadors , played their stately farce for centuries in Holyrood . 
Wars have been plotted , dancing has lasted deep into the night , murder has been done in its chambers . 
There Prince Charlie held his phantom levees , and in a very gallant manner represented a fallen dynasty for some hours . 
Now , all these things of clay are mingled with the dust , the king's crown itself is shown for sixpence to the vulgar but the stone palace has outlived these charges . 
And in this the palace is typical . 
There is a spark among the embers from time to time the old volcano smokes . 
Edinburgh has but partly abdicated , and still wears , in parody , her metropolitan trappings . 
Grave judges sit bewigged in what was once the scene of imperial deliberations . 
The grooms of a well appointed circus tread the streets with a better presence . 
There will be something in the words above the dew of Hermon , and how goodly it is to see brethren dwelling together in unity . 
Again , meditative people will find a charm in a certain consonancy between the aspect of the city and its odd and stirring history . 
Few places , if any , offer a more barbaric display of contrasts to the eye . 
But Nature is a more indiscriminate patroness than we imagine , and in no way frightened of a strong effect . 
Chartered tourists , they make free with historic localities , and rear their young among the most picturesque sites with a grand human indifference . 
These sentences have , I hear , given offence in my native town , and a proportionable pleasure to our rivals of Glasgow . 
I confess the news caused me both pain and merriment . 
It is not their fault it the city calls for something more specious by way of inhabitants . 
A man in a frock coat looks out of place upon an Alp or Pyramid , although he has the virtues of a Peabody and the talents of a Bentham . 
Chicago would cut quite as rueful a figure on the same romantic stage . 
To the Glasgow people I would say only one word , but that is of gold I HAVE NOT YET WRITTEN A BOOK ABOUT GLASGOW . 
And the story of the town is as eccentric as its appearance . 
Down in the palace John Knox reproved his queen in the accents of modern democracy . 
In the town , in one of those little shops plastered like so many swallows' nests among the buttresses of the old Cathedral , that familiar autocrat , James VI . 
, would gladly share a bottle of wine with George Heriot the goldsmith . 
THE Old Town , it is pretended , is the chief characteristic , and , from a picturesque point of view , the liver wing of Edinburgh . 
The Old Town depends for much of its effect on the new quarters that lie around it , on the sufficiency of its situation , and on the hills that back it up . 
If you were to set it somewhere else by itself , it would look remarkably like Stirling in a bolder and loftier edition . 
The Old Town occupies a sloping ridge or tail of diluvial matter , protected , in some subsidence of the waters , by the Castle cliffs which fortify it to the west . 
On the one side of it and the other the new towns of the south and of the north occupy their lower , broader , and more gentle hill tops . 
Thus , the quarter of the Castle over tops the whole city and keeps an open view to sea and land . 
A city that is set upon a hill . 
It was , I suppose , from this distant aspect that she got her nickname of AULD REEKIE . 
It grew , under the law that regulates the growth of walled cities in precarious situations , not in extent , but in height and density . 
It is almost the correct literary sentiment to deplore the revolutionary improvements of Mr. Chambers and his following . 
It is easy to be a conservator of the discomforts of others indeed , it is only our good qualities we find it irksome to conserve . 
Assuredly , in driving streets through the black labyrinth , a few curious old corners have been swept away , and some associations turned out of house and home . 
The way is so narrow that you can lay a hand on either wall so steep that , in greasy winter weather , the pavement is almost as treacherous as ice . 
Here , you come into a court where the children are at play and the grown people sit upon their doorsteps , and perhaps a church spire shows itself above the roofs . 
The local antiquary points out where famous and well born people had their lodging and as you look up , out pops the head of a slatternly woman from the countess's window . 
The Bedouins camp within Pharaoh's palace walls , and the old war ship is given over to the rats . 
We are already a far way from the days when powdered heads were plentiful in these alleys , with jolly , port wine faces underneath . 
Even in the chief thoroughfares Irish washings flutter at the windows , and the pavements are encumbered with loiterers . 
These loiterers are a true character of the scene . 
Some shrewd Scotch workmen may have paused on their way to a job , debating Church affairs and politics with their tools upon their arm . 
In fact , from this point of view , Edinburgh is not so much a small city as the largest of small towns . 
It is scarce possible to avoid observing your neighbours and I never yet heard of any one who tried . 
It has been my fortune , in this anonymous accidental way , to watch more than one of these downward travellers for some stages on the road to ruin . 
One man must have been upwards of sixty before I first observed him , and he made then a decent , personable figure in broad cloth of the best . 
I fancy that I still can hear him laugh . 
And such an one is the type of the quarter . 
It also has fallen socially . 
A scutcheon over the door somewhat jars in sentiment where there is a washing at every window . 
But an aggregation of comfort is not distasteful like an aggregation of the reverse . 
Nobody cares how many lords and ladies , and divines and lawyers , may have been crowded into these houses in the past perhaps the more the merrier . 
That is not an ugly picture in itself , nor will it become ugly upon repetition . 
All the better if the like were going on in every second room the LAND would only look the more inviting . 
In one house , perhaps , two score families herd together and , perhaps , not one of them is wholly out of the reach of want . 
The great hotel is given over to discomfort from the foundation to the chimney tops everywhere a pinching , narrow habit , scanty meals , and an air of sluttishness and dirt . 
In the first room there is a birth , in another a death , in a third a sordid drinking bout , and the detective and the Bible reader cross upon the stairs . 
Social inequality is nowhere more ostentatious than at Edinburgh . 
I have mentioned already how , to the stroller along Princes Street , the High Street callously exhibits its back garrets . 
It is true , there is a garden between . 
To look over the South Bridge and see the Cowgate below full of crying hawkers , is to view one rank of society from another in the twinkling of an eye . 
One night I went along the Cowgate after every one was a bed but the policeman , and stopped by hazard before a tall LAND . 
There was nothing fanciful , at least , but every circumstance of terror and reality , in the fall of the LAND in the High Street . 
The physical shock was felt far and near and the moral shock travelled with the morning milkmaid into all the suburbs . 
The church bells never sounded more dismally over Edinburgh than that grey forenoon . 
Death had made a brave harvest , and , like Samson , by pulling down one roof , destroyed many a home . 
So , by this disaster , you had a glimpse into the life of thirty families , all suddenly cut off from the revolving years . 
TIME has wrought its changes most notably around the precincts of St . 
Giles's must have had in former days a rich and quaint appearance now forgotten , so the neighbourhood was bustling , sunless , and romantic . 
There is a silly story of a subterranean passage between the Castle and Holyrood , and a bold Highland piper who volunteered to explore its windings . 
Giles's , the music came abruptly to an end , and the people in the street stood at fault with hands uplifted . 
Perhaps he wandered down into the land of Thomas the Rhymer , and some day , when it is least expected , may take a thought to revisit the sunlit upper world . 
That will be a strange moment for the cabmen on the stance besides St . 
Giles's , when they hear the drone of his pipes reascending from the bowels of the earth below their horses' feet . 
But it is not only pipers who have vanished , many a solid bulk of masonry has been likewise spirited into the air . 
Here , for example , is the shape of a heart let into the causeway . 
This was the site of the Tolbooth , the Heart of Midlothian , a place old in story and namefather to a noble book . 
Nor is this the only memorial that the pavement keeps of former days . 
The ancient burying ground of Edinburgh lay behind St . 
Giles's Church , running downhill to the Cowgate and covering the site of the present Parliament House . 
It has disappeared as utterly as the prison or the Luckenbooths and for those ignorant of its history , I know only one token that remains . 
He sleeps within call of the church that so often echoed to his preaching . 
Hard by the reformer , a bandy legged and garlanded Charles Second , made of lead , bestrides a tun bellied charger . 
The King has his backed turned , and , as you look , seems to be trotting clumsily away from such a dangerous neighbour . 
Often , for hours together , these two will be alone in the Close , for it lies out of the way of all but legal traffic . 
At either end , from round St . 
Towards afternoon , if the prisoner is unpopular , there will be a round of hisses when he is brought forth . 
The Parliament Close has been the scene of marking incidents in Scottish history . 
for the Scottish Bar , beheld the Parliament Close open and had a vision of the mouth of Hell . 
This , and small wonder , was the means of his conversion . 
To how many has not St . 
This is the SALLE DES PAS PERDUS of the Scottish Bar . 
Here , by a ferocious custom , idle youths must promenade from ten till two . 
From end to end , singly or in pairs or trios , the gowns and wigs go back and forward . 
Through a hum of talk and footfalls , the piping tones of a Macer announce a fresh cause and call upon the names of those concerned . 
Intelligent men have been walking here daily for ten or twenty years without a rag of business or a shilling of reward . 
In process of time , they may perhaps be made the Sheriff Substitute and Fountain of Justice at Lerwick or Tobermory . 
There is nothing required , you would say , but a little patience and a taste for exercise and bad air . 
More swing doors open into pigeon holes where judges of the First Appeal sit singly , and halls of audience where the supreme Lords sit by three or four . 
Here , you may see Scott's place within the bar , where he wrote many a page of Waverley novels to the drone of judicial proceeding . 
You will hear a good deal of shrewdness , and , as their Lordships do not altogether disdain pleasantry , a fair proportion of dry fun . 
The broadest of broad Scotch is now banished from the bench but the courts still retain a certain national flavour . 
We have a solemn enjoyable way of lingering on a case . 
We treat law as a fine art , and relish and digest a good distinction . 
There is no hurry point after point must be rightly examined and reduced to principle judge after judge must utter forth his OBITER DICTA to delighted brethren . 
Few places are more characteristic of this hilly capital . 
You descend one stone stair after another , and wander , by the flicker of a match , in a labyrinth of stone cellars . 
Now , you pass below the Outer Hall and hear overhead , brisk but ghostly , the interminable pattering of legal feet . 
Many a foot that has gone up there lightly enough , has been dead heavy in the descent . 
Many a man's life has been argued away from him during long hours in the court above . 
But just now that tragic stage is empty and silent like a church on a week day , with the bench all sheeted up and nothing moving but the sunbeams on the wall . 
I cannot fancy why they should preserve them unless it were against the Judgment Day . 
In truth , it is only some gear of the steam ventilator and you will find the engineers at hand , and may step out of their door into the sunlight . 
There are few signs of life , besides a scanty washing or a face at a window the dwellers are abroad , but they will return at night and stagger to their pallets . 
THE character of a place is often most perfectly expressed in its associations . 
An event strikes root and grows into a legend , when it has happened amongst congenial surroundings . 
Ugly actions , above all in ugly places , have the true romantic quality , and become an undying property of their scene . 
There , people hush their voices over Burke and Hare over drugs and violated graves , and the resurrection men smothering their victims with their knees . 
Here , again , the fame of Deacon Brodie is kept piously fresh . 
A great man in his day was the Deacon well seen in good society , crafty with his hands as a cabinet maker , and one who could sing a song with taste . 
Many stories are told of this redoubtable Edinburgh burglar , but the one I have in my mind most vividly gives the key of all the rest . 
The good man had lain some time awake it was far on in the small hours by the Tron bell when suddenly there came a creak , a jar , a faint light . 
Or where the Deacon is out of favour , perhaps some memory lingers of the great plagues , and of fatal houses still unsafe to enter within the memory of man . 
For in time of pestilence the discipline had been sharp and sudden , and what we now call 'stamping out contagion' was carried on with deadly rigour . 
The officials , in their gowns of grey , with a white St . 
And the most bogeyish part of the story is about such houses . 
What a terrible next door neighbour for superstitious citizens ! A rat scampering within would send a shudder through the stoutest heart . 
Here , if you like , was a sanitary parable , addressed by our uncleanly forefathers to their own neglect . 
And then we have Major Weir for although even his house is now demolished , old Edinburgh cannot clear herself of his unholy memory . 
He and his sister lived together in an odour of sour piety . 
She was a marvellous spinster he had a rare gift of supplication , and was known among devout admirers by the name of Angelical Thomas . 
'He was a tall , black man , and ordinarily looked down to the ground a grim countenance , and a big nose . 
His garb was still a cloak , and somewhat dark , and he never went without his staff . 
At least , it is suitable enough that out of this superstitious city some such example should have been put forth the outcome and fine flower of dark and vehement religion . 
And at least the facts struck the public fancy and brought forth a remarkable family of myths . 
It would appear that the Major's staff went upon his errands , and even ran before him with a lantern on dark nights . 
Gigantic females , 'stentoriously laughing and gaping with tehees of laughter' at unseasonable hours of night and morning , haunted the purlieus of his abode . 
His house fell under such a load of infamy that no one dared to sleep in it , until municipal improvement levelled the structure to the ground . 
Another legend is that of the two maiden sisters . 
A legend I am afraid it may be , in the most discreditable meaning of the term or perhaps something worse a mere yesterday's fiction . 
But it is a story of some vitality , and is worthy of a place in the Edinburgh kalendar . 
You would have thought they would separate but no whether from lack of means , or the Scottish fear of scandal , they continued to keep house together where they were . 
Never did four walls look down upon an uglier spectacle than these sisters rivalling in unsisterliness . 
We are wonderful patient haters for conscience sake up here in the North . 
I spoke , in the first of these papers , of the Parliaments of the Established and Free Churches , and how they can hear each other singing psalms across the street . 
Edinburgh is a city of churches , as though it were a place of pilgrimage . 
You will see four within a stone cast at the head of the West Bow . 
Some are crowded to the doors some are empty like monuments and yet you will ever find new ones in the building . 
Hence that surprising clamour of church bells that suddenly breaks out upon the Sabbath morning from Trinity and the sea skirts to Morningside on the borders of the hills . 
I have heard the chimes of Oxford playing their symphony in a golden autumn morning , and beautiful it was to hear . 
But in Edinburgh all manner of loud bells join , or rather disjoin , in one swelling , brutal babblement of noise . 
And surely there are few worse extremes than this extremity of zeal and few more deplorable defections than this disloyalty to Christian love . 
Shakespeare wrote a comedy of 'Much Ado about Nothing . 
The Scottish nation made a fantastic tragedy on the same subject . 
And it is for the success of this remarkable piece that these bells are sounded every Sabbath morning on the hills above the Forth . 
And which is to pocket pride , and speak the foremost word ? CHAPTER V. GREYFRIARS . 
The Friars must have had a pleasant time on summer evenings for their gardens were situated to a wish , with the tall castle and the tallest of the castle crags in front . 
The open shows many slabs and table tombstones and all round the margin , the place is girt by an array of aristocratic mausoleums appallingly adorned . 
The classical examples of this art are in Greyfriars . 
In their time , these were doubtless costly monuments , and reckoned of a very elegant proportion by contemporaries and now , when the elegance is not so apparent , the significance remains . 
But it is not a hearty sort of mirth . 
Round a great part of the circuit , houses of a low class present their backs to the churchyard . 
Only a few inches separate the living from the dead . 
A damp smell of the graveyard finds its way into houses where workmen sit at meat . 
Domestic life on a small scale goes forward visibly at the windows . 
The very solitude and stillness of the enclosure , which lies apart from the town's traffic , serves to accentuate the contrast . 
And as there is nothing else astir , these incongruous sights and noises take hold on the attention and exaggerate the sadness of the place . 
Greyfriars is continually overrun by cats . 
An open outlook is to be desired from a churchyard , and a sight of the sky and some of the world's beauty relieves a mind from morbid thoughts . 
I shall never forget one visit . 
In another , a vaulted tomb , handsome externally but horrible inside with damp and cobwebs , there were three mounds of black earth and an uncovered thigh bone . 
This was the place of interment , it appeared , of a family with whom the gardener had been long in service . 
He was among old acquaintances . 
'This'll be Miss Marg'et's , said he , giving the bone a friendly kick . 
People had been at some expense in both these cases to provoke a melancholy feeling of derision in the one , and an insulting epithet in the other . 
The proper inscription for the most part of mankind , I began to think , is the cynical jeer , CRAS TIBI . 
That , if anything , will stop the mouth of a carper since it both admits the worst and carries the war triumphantly into the enemy's camp . 
Greyfriars is a place of many associations . 
There was one window in a house at the lower end , now demolished , which was pointed out to me by the gravedigger as a spot of legendary interest . 
In a tomb higher up , which must then have been but newly finished , John Knox , according to the same informant , had taken refuge in a turmoil of the Reformation . 
Behind the church is the haunted mausoleum of Sir George Mackenzie Bloody Mackenzie , Lord Advocate in the Covenanting troubles and author of some pleasing sentiments on toleration . 
Here , in the last century , an old Heriot's Hospital boy once harboured from the pursuit of the police . 
But his must have been indeed a heart of brass , to lie all day and night alone with the dead persecutor and other lads were far from emulating him in courage . 
It was thought a high piece of prowess to knock at the Lord Advocate's mausoleum and challenge him to appear . 
'Bluidy Mackingie , come oot if ye dar' ! sang the fool hardy urchins . 
But Sir George had other affairs on hand and the author of an essay on toleration continues to sleep peacefully among the many whom he so intolerantly helped to slay . 
For this INFELIX CAMPUS , as it is dubbed in one of its own inscriptions an inscription over which Dr . 
Johnson passed a critical eye is in many ways sacred to the memory of the men whom Mackenzie persecuted . 
It was here , on the flat tombstones , that the Covenant was signed by an enthusiastic people . 
And while the good work was going forward in the Grassmarket , idlers in Greyfriars might have heard the throb of the military drums that drowned the voices of the martyrs . 
Where they may all lie , I know not . 
Then they came about the City . 
, where they lay Years except Days , being executed upon the th of OCTOBER , and found the th Day of OCTOBER . 
That Piece of Ground lay for some Years unlaboured and trenching it , the Gardner found them , which affrighted him the Box was consumed . 
They lay Twelve Days there , where all had Access to see them . 
ALEXANDER TWEEDIE , the foresaid Gardner , said , when dying , There was a Treasure hid in his Yard , but neither Gold nor Silver . 
Many came' to see the heads 'out of Curiosity yet I rejoiced to see so many concerned grave Men and Women favouring the Dust of our Martyrs . 
We caused make a compleat Coffin for them in Black , with four Yards of fine Linen , the way that our Martyrs Corps were managed . 
And so there they were at last , in 'their resting graves . 
It is not well to think of death , unless we temper the thought with that of heroes who despised it . 
NEW TOWN TOWN AND COUNTRY . 
He has now gone to that sphere where all good tars are promised pleasant weather in the song , and perhaps his thoughts fly somewhat higher . 
as if it were a trifle too good to be true . 
It is what Paris ought to be . 
It has the scenic quality that would best set off a life of unthinking , open air diversion . 
It was meant by nature for the realisation of the society of comic operas . 
Alas ! and the next morning the rain is splashing on the windows , and the passengers flee along Princes Street before the galloping squalls . 
It cannot be denied that the original design was faulty and short sighted , and did not fully profit by the capabilities of the situation . 
The architect was essentially a town bird , and he laid out the modern city with a view to street scenery , and to street scenery alone . 
The country did not enter into his plan he had never lifted his eyes to the hills . 
If he had so chosen , every street upon the northern slope might have been a noble terrace and commanded an extensive and beautiful view . 
Fergusson , our Edinburgh poet , Burns's model , once saw a butterfly at the Town Cross and the sight inspired him with a worthless little ode . 
This painted country man , the dandy of the rose garden , looked far abroad in such a humming neighbourhood and you can fancy what moral considerations a youthful poet would supply . 
But the incident , in a fanciful sort of way , is characteristic of the place . 
You turn a corner , and there is the sun going down into the Highland hills . 
You look down an alley , and see ships tacking for the Baltic . 
For the country people to see Edinburgh on her hill tops , is one thing it is another for the citizen , from the thick of his affairs , to overlook the country . 
Indeed , apart from antique houses , it is curious how much description would apply commonly to either . 
The same sudden accidents of ground , a similar dominating site above the plain , and the same superposition of one rank of society over another , are to be observed in both . 
This is only the New Town passing overhead above its own cellars walking , so to speak , over its own children , as is the way of cities and the human race . 
But at the Dean Bridge , you may behold a spectacle of a more novel order . 
Over this , every afternoon , private carriages go spinning by , and ladies with card cases pass to and fro about the duties of society . 
And yet down below , you may still see , with its mills and foaming weir , the little rural village of Dean . 
Modern improvement has gone overhead on its high level viaduct and the extended city has cleanly overleapt , and left unaltered , what was once the summer retreat of its comfortable citizens . 
known as Saint David Street . 
Nor is the town so large but a holiday schoolboy may harry a bird's nest within half a mile of his own door . 
There are places that still smell of the plough in memory's nostrils . 
The memories of an Edinburgh boy are but partly memories of the town . 
To scale the Castle Rock from West Princes Street Gardens , and lay a triumphal hand against the rampart itself , was to taste a high order of romantic pleasure . 
And there are other sights and exploits which crowd back upon my mind under a very strong illumination of remembered pleasure . 
They were more rural than the open country , and gave a greater impression of antiquity than the oldest LAND upon the High Street . 
In a great measure we may , and shall , eradicate this haunting flavour of the country . 
The last elm is dead in Elm Row and the villas and the workmen's quarters spread apace on all the borders of the city . 
But we have some possessions that not even the infuriate zeal of builders can utterly abolish and destroy . 
Nothing can abolish the hills , unless it be a cataclysm of nature which shall subvert Edinburgh Castle itself and lay all her florid structures in the dust . 
And as long as we have the hills and the Firth , we have a famous heritage to leave our children . 
Our windows , at no expense to us , are most artfully stained to represent a landscape . 
RUSKIN'S denunciation of the New Town of Edinburgh includes , as I have heard it repeated , nearly all the stone and lime we have to show . 
And yet a glance of an eye discovers their true character . 
They are not buildings for you can scarcely say a thing is built where every measurement is in clamant disproportion with its neighbour . 
They belong to no style of art , only to a form of business much to be regretted . 
On the other hand , there is a noble way of being ugly a high aspiring fiasco like the fall of Lucifer . 
There are daring and gaudy buildings that manage to be offensive , without being contemptible and we know that 'fools rush in where angels fear to tread . 
Possibly these words may meet the eye of a builder or two . 
But let them get any architect in the world to point out any reasonably well proportioned villa , not his own design and let them reproduce that model to satiety . 
THE east of new Edinburgh is guarded by a craggy hill , of no great elevation , which the town embraces . 
The old London road runs on one side of it while the New Approach , leaving it on the other hand , completes the circuit . 
You mount by stairs in a cutting of the rock to find yourself in a field of monuments . 
This latter erection has been differently and yet , in both cases , aptly compared to a telescope and a butter churn comparisons apart , it ranks among the vilest of men's handiworks . 
It was meant to be a National Monument and its present state is a very suitable monument to certain national characteristics . 
The old Observatory a quaint brown building on the edge of the steep and the new Observatory a classical edifice with a dome occupy the central portion of the summit . 
All these are scattered on a green turf , browsed over by some sheep . 
The scene suggests reflections on fame and on man's injustice to the dead . 
You see Dugald Stewart rather more handsomely commemorated than Burns . 
Burns himself not only acknowledged his debt in a fragment of autobiography , but erected a tomb over the grave in Canongate churchyard . 
It is the place to stroll on one of those days of sunshine and east wind which are so common in our more than temperate summer . 
It brings with it a faint , floating haze , a cunning decolourizer , although not thick enough to obscure outlines near at hand . 
In the one , you may perhaps see female prisoners taking exercise like a string of nuns in the other , schoolboys running at play and their shadows keeping step with them . 
From the bottom of the valley , a gigantic chimney rises almost to the level of the eye , a taller and a shapelier edifice than Nelson's Monument . 
Behind and overhead , lie the Queen's Park , from Muschat's Cairn to Dumbiedykes , St . 
Upon the right , the roofs and spires of the Old Town climb one above another to where the citadel prints its broad bulk and jagged crown of bastions on the western sky . 
This is the time gun by which people set their watches , as far as the sea coast or in hill farms upon the Pentlands . 
On the north , the Calton Hill is neither so abrupt in itself nor has it so exceptional an outlook and yet even here it commands a striking prospect . 
A gully separates it from the New Town . 
This is Greenside , where witches were burned and tournaments held in former days . 
Down that almost precipitous bank , Bothwell launched his horse , and so first , as they say , attracted the bright eyes of Mary . 
It is now tesselated with sheets and blankets out to dry , and the sound of people beating carpets is rarely absent . 
These are the main features of the scene roughly sketched . 
It is the character of such a prospect , to be full of change and of things moving . 
The multiplicity embarrasses the eye and the mind , among so much , suffers itself to grow absorbed with single points . 
You remark a tree in a hedgerow , or follow a cart along a country road . 
At one of the innumerable windows , you watch a figure moving on one of the multitude of roofs , you watch clambering chimney sweeps . 
And here you are in the meantime , on this pastoral hillside , among nibbling sheep and looked upon by monumental buildings . 
An hour or so before , the gas was turned on lamplighters scoured the city in every house , from kitchen to attic , the windows kindled and gleamed forth into the dusk . 
And so now , although the town lies blue and darkling on her hills , innumerable spots of the bright element shine far and near along the pavements and upon the high facades . 
Moving lights of the railway pass and repass below the stationary lights upon the bridge . 
Lights burn in the jail . 
Lights burn high up in the tall LANDS and on the Castle turrets , they burn low down in Greenside or along the Park . 
They run out one beyond the other into the dark country . 
They walk in a procession down to Leith , and shine singly far along Leith Pier . 
THE Scotch dialect is singularly rich in terms of reproach against the winter wind . 
The inclemency of heaven , which has thus endowed the language of Scotland with words , has also largely modified the spirit of its poetry . 
He was a delicate youth , I take it , and willingly slunk from the robustious winter to an inn fire side . 
Although it is characteristic of his native town , and the manners of its youth to the present day , this spirit has perhaps done something to restrict his popularity . 
He recalls a supper party pleasantry with something akin to tenderness and sounds the praises of the act of drinking as if it were virtuous , or at least witty , in itself . 
The kindly jar , the warm atmosphere of tavern parlours , and the revelry of lawyers' clerks , do not offer by themselves the materials of a rich existence . 
It was not choice , so much as an external fate , that kept Fergusson in this round of sordid pleasures . 
A Scot of poetic temperament , and without religious exaltation , drops as if by nature into the public house . 
The days are so short that a man does much of his business , and certainly all his pleasure , by the haggard glare of gas lamps . 
The roads are as heavy as a fallow . 
People go by , so drenched and draggle tailed that I have often wondered how they found the heart to undress . 
As the weather hardens towards frost , the world begins to improve for Edinburgh people . 
We enjoy superb , sub arctic sunsets , with the profile of the city stamped in indigo upon a sky of luminous green . 
The wind may still be cold , but there is a briskness in the air that stirs good blood . 
People do not all look equally sour and downcast . 
Such an one I remember , triply cased in grease , whom no extremity of temperature could vanquish . 
'Well , would be his jovial salutation , 'here's a sneezer ! And the look of these warm fellows is tonic , and upholds their drooping fellow townsmen . 
There is yet another class who do not depend on corporal advantages , but support the winter in virtue of a brave and merry heart . 
If the one was as much as nine , the other was certainly not more than seven . 
They were miserably clad and the pavement was so cold , you would have thought no one could lay a naked foot on it unflinching . 
Yet they came along waltzing , if you please , while the elder sang a tune to give them music . 
At length , Edinburgh , with her satellite hills and all the sloping country , are sheeted up in white . 
The reverberation of the snow increases the pale daylight , and brings all objects nearer the eye . 
The Firth seems a leaden creek , that a man might almost jump across , between well powdered Lothian and well powdered Fife . 
An indescribable cheerfulness breathes about the city and the well fed heart sits lightly and beats gaily in the bosom . 
It is New year's weather . 
New year's Day , the great national festival , is a time of family expansions and of deep carousal . 
Thus pulled about , as if between two loyalties , the Scotch have to decide many nice cases of conscience , and ride the marches narrowly between the weekly and the annual observance . 
A party of convivial musicians , next door to a friend of mine , hung suspended in this manner on the brink of their diversions . 
sounded from the earliest steeple , before they had launced forth into a secular bravura . 
Currant loaf is now popular eating in all house holds . 
'Frae Auld Reekie , 'A guid New Year to ye a' , 'For the Auld Folk at Hame , are among the most favoured of these devices . 
On the day itself , the shops are all shut as on a Sunday only taverns , toyshops , and other holiday magazines , keep open doors . 
Every one looks for his handsel . 
All over the town , you may see comforter'd schoolboys hasting to squander their half crowns . 
From an early hour a stranger will be impressed by the number of drunken men and by afternoon drunkenness has spread to the women . 
With some classes of society , it is as much a matter of duty to drink hard on New year's Day as to go to church on Sunday . 
Some have been saving their wages for perhaps a month to do the season honour . 
Many carry a whisky bottle in their pocket , which they will press with embarrassing effusion on a perfect stranger . 
It is inexpedient to risk one's body in a cab , or not , at least , until after a prolonged study of the driver . 
The streets , which are thronged from end to end , become a place for delicate pilotage . 
Before night , so many have gone to bed or the police office , that the streets seem almost clearer . 
But the great generation , I am afraid , is at an end and even during my own college days , the spirit appreciably declined . 
Skating and sliding , on the other hand , are honoured more and more and curling , being a creature of the national genius , is little likely to be disregarded . 
The patriotism that leads a man to eat Scotch bun will scarce desert him at the curling pond . 
As for skating , there is scarce any city so handsomely provided . 
Duddingstone Loch lies under the abrupt southern side of Arthur's Seat in summer a shield of blue , with swans sailing from the reeds in winter , a field of ringing ice . 
The village church sits above it on a green promontory and the village smoke rises from among goodly trees . 
Here Prince Charlie slept before the battle of Prestonpans and here Deacon Brodie , or one of his gang , stole a plough coulter before the burglary in Chessel's Court . 
On the opposite side of the loch , the ground rises to Craigmillar Castle , a place friendly to Stuart Mariolaters . 
It is worth a climb , even in summer , to look down upon the loch from Arthur's Seat but it is tenfold more so on a day of skating . 
As night draws on , the single figures melt into the dusk , until only an obscure stir , and coming and going of black clusters , is visible upon the loch . 
CHAPTER X. TO THE PENTLAND HILLS . 
On the south alone , it keeps rising until it not only out tops the Castle but looks down on Arthur's Seat . 
There is no lack of variety , and yet most of the elements are common to all parts and the southern district is alone distinguished by considerable summits and a wide view . 
Even as I write these words , they are being antiquated in the progress of events , and the chisels are tinkling on a new row of houses . 
The builders have at length adventured beyond the toll which held them in respect so long , and proceed to career in these fresh pastures like a herd of colts turned loose . 
And here , appropriately enough , there stood in old days a crow haunted gibbet , with two bodies hanged in chains . 
I used to be shown , when a child , a flat stone in the roadway to which the gibbet had been fixed . 
People of a willing fancy were persuaded , and sought to persuade others , that this stone was never dry . 
And no wonder , they would add , for the two men had only stolen fourpence between them . 
For about two miles the road climbs upwards , a long hot walk in summer time . 
You reach the summit at a place where four ways meet , beside the toll of Fairmilehead . 
The spot is breezy and agreeable both in name and aspect . 
At certain seasons , when the gulls desert their surfy forelands , the birds of sea and mountain hunt and scream together in the same field by Fairmilehead . 
The winged , wild things intermix their wheelings , the sea birds skim the tree tops and fish among the furrows of the plough . 
Below , over a stream , the road passes Bow Bridge , now a dairy farm , but once a distillery of whisky . 
It chanced , some time in the past century , that the distiller was on terms of good fellowship with the visiting officer of excise . 
The latter was of an easy , friendly disposition , and a master of convivial arts . 
His favourite air , it seems , was 'Over the hills and far away . 
At the first note , the distiller pricked his ears . 
A flute at Fairmilehead ? and playing 'Over the hills and far away ? This must be his friendly enemy , the gauger . 
Instantly horses were harnessed , and sundry barrels of whisky were got upon a cart , driven at a gallop round Hill End , and buried in the mossy glen behind Kirk Yetton . 
In the same breath , you may be sure , a fat fowl was put to the fire , and the whitest napery prepared for the back parlour . 
And at least , there is a smuggling story , with original and half idyllic features . 
A little further , the road to the right passes an upright stone in a field . 
The country people call it General Kay's monument . 
According to them , an officer of that name had perished there in battle at some indistinct period before the beginning of history . 
The date is reassuring for I think cautious writers are silent on the General's exploits . 
But the stone is connected with one of those remarkable tenures of land which linger on into the modern world from Feudalism . 
Happily for a respectable family , crowned heads have no great business in the Pentland Hills . 
But the story lends a character of comicality to the stone and the passer by will sometimes chuckle to himself . 
The district is dear to the superstitious . 
Satan led the inhabitants a pitiful existence . 
'That nicht , says Burns , in one of his happiest moments , 'THAT NICHT A CHILD MIGHT UNDERSTAND THE DEIL HAD BUSINESS ON HIS HAND . 
The road goes down through another valley , and then finally begins to scale the main slope of the Pentlands . 
A bouquet of old trees stands round a white farmhouse and from a neighbouring dell , you can see smoke rising and leaves ruffling in the breeze . 
Straight above , the hills climb a thousand feet into the air . 
This , with the hamlet lying behind unseen , is Swanston . 
The place in the dell is immediately connected with the city . 
Long ago , this sheltered field was purchased by the Edinburgh magistrates for the sake of the springs that rise or gather there . 
After they had built their water house and laid their pipes , it occurred to them that the place was suitable for junketing . 
Once entertained , with jovial magistrates and public funds , the idea led speedily to accomplishment and Edinburgh could soon boast of a municipal Pleasure House . 
The dell was turned into a garden and on the knoll that shelters it from the plain and the sea winds , they built a cottage looking to the hills . 
They brought crockets and gargoyles from old St . 
So much for the pleasure of the eye for creature comfort , they made a capacious cellar in the hillside and fitted it with bins of the hewn stone . 
In process of time , the trees grew higher and gave shade to the cottage , and the evergreens sprang up and turned the dell into a thicket . 
It was first a grange of Whitekirk Abbey , tilled and inhabited by rosy friars . 
Thence , after the Reformation , it passed into the hands of a true blue Protestant family . 
In the Forty Five , some foraging Highlanders from Prince Charlie's army fell upon Swanston in the dawn . 
The churn stood full of cream in the dairy , and with this they made their brose in high delight . 
'It was braw brose , said one of them . 
At last they made off , laden like camels with their booty and Swanston Farm has lain out of the way of history from that time forward . 
I do not know what may be yet in store for it . 
On dark days , when the mist runs low upon the hill , the house has a gloomy air as if suitable for private tragedy . 
The hamlet behind is one of the least considerable of hamlets , and consists of a few cottages on a green beside a burn . 
It is the sign of a contented old age in country places , where there is little matter for gossip and no street sights . 
One of the illustrations of the First Edition . 
Kirk Yetton forms the north eastern angle of the range thence , the Pentlands trend off to south and west . 
From the summit you look over a great expanse of champaign sloping to the sea , and behold a large variety of distant hills . 
There are the hills of Fife , the hills of Peebles , the Lammermoors and the Ochils , more or less mountainous in outline , more or less blue with distance . 
To turn to the other is like a piece of travel . 
All around , cultivated fields , and woods , and smoking villages , and white country roads , diversify the uneven surface of the land . 
So you sit , like Jupiter upon Olympus , and look down from afar upon men's life . 
The city is as silent as a city of the dead from all its humming thoroughfares , not a voice , not a footfall , reaches you upon the hill . 
Immediately below is Fairmilehead , a spot of roof and a smoking chimney , where two roads , no thicker than packthread , intersect beside a hanging wood . 
If you are fanciful , you will be reminded of the gauger in the story . 
For any such , if this book fall in their way , here are a few more home pictures . 
It would be pleasant , if they should recognise a house where they had dwelt , or a walk that they had taken . 
