The Emerald City of Oz by L. Frank Baum Author of The Road to Oz , Dorothy and The Wizard in Oz , The Land of Oz , etc . 
How the Nome King Became Angry . 
How Uncle Henry Got Into Trouble . 
How Ozma Granted Dorothy's Request . 
How The Nome King Planned Revenge . 
How Dorothy Became a Princess . 
How Guph Visited the Whimsies . 
How Aunt Em Conquered the Lion . 
How the Grand Gallipoot Joined The Nomes . 
How the Wogglebug Taught Athletics . 
How the General Met the First and Foremost . 
How they Matched the Fuddles . 
How the General Talked to the King . 
How the Wizard Practiced Sorcery . 
How Dorothy Happened to Get Lost . 
How They Came to Bunbury . 
How Ozma Looked into the Magic Picture . 
How Bunnybury Welcomed the Strangers . 
How Dorothy Lunched With a King . 
How the King Changed His Mind . 
How the Wizard Found Dorothy . 
How They Encountered the Flutterbudgets . 
How the Tin Woodman Told the Sad News . 
How the Scarecrow Displayed His Wisdom . 
How Ozma Refused to Fight for Her Kingdom . 
How the Fierce Warriors Invaded Oz . 
How They Drank at the Forbidden Fountain . 
How Glinda Worked a Magic Spell . 
These ideas are often clever . 
They are also logical and interesting . 
So I have used them whenever I could find an opportunity , and it is but just that I acknowledge my indebtedness to my little friends . 
My , what imaginations these children have developed ! Sometimes I am fairly astounded by their daring and genius . 
There will be no lack of fairy tale authors in the future , I am sure . 
My readers have told me what to do with Dorothy , and Aunt Em and Uncle Henry , and I have obeyed their mandates . 
They have also given me a variety of subjects to write about in the future enough , in fact , to keep me busy for some time . 
I am very proud of this alliance . 
Children love these stories because children have helped to create them . 
My readers know what they want and realize that I try to please them . 
I hope , my dears , it will be a long time before we are obliged to dissolve partnership . 
How the Nome King Became Angry The Nome King was in an angry mood , and at such times he was very disagreeable . 
Every one kept away from him , even his Chief Steward Kaliko . 
Therefore the King stormed and raved all by himself , walking up and down in his jewel studded cavern and getting angrier all the time . 
In came the Chief Steward , trying not to show the Nome King how frightened he was . 
Send the Chief Counselor here ! shouted the angry monarch . 
Kaliko ran out as fast as his spindle legs could carry his fat , round body , and soon the Chief Counselor entered the cavern . 
The King scowled and said to him I'm in great trouble over the loss of my Magic Belt . 
Every little while I want to do something magical , and find I can't because the Belt is gone . 
That makes me angry , and when I'm angry I can't have a good time . 
Now , what do you advise ? Some people , said the Chief Counselor , enjoy getting angry . 
But not all the time , declared the King . 
To be angry once in a while is really good fun , because it makes others so miserable . 
But to be angry morning , noon and night , as I am , grows monotonous and prevents my gaining any other pleasure in life . 
Hearing this , the King glared at his Counselor with a furious expression and tugged at his own long white whiskers until he pulled them so hard that he yelled with pain . 
You are a fool ! he exclaimed . 
I share that honor with your Majesty , said the Chief Counselor . 
The King roared with rage and stamped his foot . 
Ho , there , my guards ! he cried . 
Ho is a royal way of saying , Come here . 
So , when the guards had hoed , the King said to them Take this Chief Counselor and throw him away . 
Then the guards took the Chief Counselor , and bound him with chains to prevent his struggling , and threw him away . 
And the King paced up and down his cavern more angry than before . 
Finally he rushed to his big gong and made it clatter like a fire alarm . 
Kaliko appeared again , trembling and white with fear . 
Fetch my pipe ! yelled the King . 
Your pipe is already here , your Majesty , replied Kaliko . 
Then get my tobacco ! roared the King . 
The tobacco is in your pipe , your Majesty , returned the Steward . 
Then bring a live coal from the furnace ! commanded the King . 
The tobacco is lighted , and your Majesty is already smoking your pipe , answered the Steward . 
Why , so I am ! said the King , who had forgotten this fact but you are very rude to remind me of it . 
I am a lowborn , miserable villain , declared the Chief Steward , humbly . 
The Nome King could think of nothing to say next , so he puffed away at his pipe and paced up and down the room . 
I've lost my Magic Belt . 
A little girl named Dorothy , who was here with Ozma of Oz , stole my Belt and carried it away with her , said the King , grinding his teeth with rage . 
She captured it in a fair fight , Kaliko ventured to say . 
But I want it ! I must have it ! Half my power is gone with that Belt ! roared the King . 
Why not ? asked the King . 
Because there is a deadly desert all around that fairy country , which no one is able to cross . 
You know that fact as well as I do , your Majesty . 
Never mind the lost Belt . 
You have plenty of power left , for you rule this underground kingdom like a tyrant , and thousands of Nomes obey your commands . 
I advise you to drink a glass of melted silver , to quiet your nerves , and then go to bed . 
The King grabbed a big ruby and threw it at Kaliko's head . 
The Steward ducked to escape the heavy jewel , which crashed against the door just over his left ear . 
Get out of my sight ! Vanish ! Go away and send General Blug here , screamed the Nome King . 
Kaliko hastily withdrew , and the Nome King stamped up and down until the General of his armies appeared . 
This Nome was known far and wide as a terrible fighter and a cruel , desperate commander . 
He had fifty thousand Nome soldiers , all well drilled , who feared nothing but their stern master . 
Yet General Blug was a trifle uneasy when he arrived and saw how angry the Nome King was . 
Ha ! So you're here ! cried the King . 
So I am , said the General . 
March your army at once to the Land of Oz , capture and destroy the Emerald City , and bring back to me my Magic Belt ! roared the King . 
You're crazy , calmly remarked the General . 
What's that ? What's that ? What's that ? And the Nome King danced around on his pointed toes , he was so enraged . 
You don't know what you're talking about , continued the General , seating himself upon a large cut diamond . 
I advise you to stand in a corner and count sixty before you speak again . 
By that time you may be more sensible . 
The King looked around for something to throw at General Blug , but as nothing was handy he began to consider that perhaps the man was right and he had been talking foolishly . 
So he merely threw himself into his glittering throne and tipped his crown over his ear and curled his feet up under him and glared wickedly at Blug . 
In the first place , said the General , we cannot march across the deadly desert to the Land of Oz . 
And if we could , the Ruler of that country , Princess Ozma , has certain fairy powers that would render my army helpless . 
Had you not lost your Magic Belt we might have some chance of defeating Ozma but the Belt is gone . 
I want it ! screamed the King . 
Well , then , let us try in a sensible way to get it , replied the General . 
The Belt was captured by a little girl named Dorothy , who lives in Kansas , in the United States of America . 
But she left it in the Emerald City , with Ozma , declared the King . 
How do you know that ? asked the General . 
Now that gives me an idea , said General Blug , thoughtfully . 
There are two ways to get to the Land of Oz without traveling across the sandy desert . 
What are they ? demanded the King , eagerly . 
One way is OVER the desert , through the air and the other way is UNDER the desert , through the earth . 
Hearing this the Nome King uttered a yell of joy and leaped from his throne , to resume his wild walk up and down the cavern . 
That's it , Blug ! he shouted . 
That's the idea , General ! I'm King of the Under World , and my subjects are all miners . 
Don't go too fast , warned the General . 
My Nomes are good fighters , but they are not strong enough to conquer the Emerald City . 
Are you sure ? asked the King . 
Absolutely certain , your Majesty . 
Then what am I to do ? Give up the idea and mind your own business , advised the General . 
You have plenty to do trying to rule your underground kingdom . 
But I want the Magic Belt and I'm going to have it ! roared the Nome King . 
I'd like to see you get it , replied the General , laughing maliciously . 
The sapphire hit the General upon his forehead and knocked him flat upon the ground , where he lay motionless . 
Then the King rang his gong and told his guards to drag out the General and throw him away which they did . 
This Nome King was named Roquat the Red , and no one loved him . 
This same Belt had once enabled Roquat the Red to carry out many wicked plans but that was before Ozma and her people marched to the underground cavern and captured it . 
The Nome King could not forgive Dorothy or Princess Ozma , and he had determined to be revenged upon them . 
But they , for their part , did not know they had so dangerous an enemy . 
An unsuspected enemy is doubly dangerous . 
How Uncle Henry Got Into Trouble Dorothy Gale lived on a farm in Kansas , with her Aunt Em and her Uncle Henry . 
It was not a big farm , nor a very good one , because sometimes the rain did not come when the crops needed it , and then everything withered and dried up . 
Then his health became bad and he was too feeble to work . 
The doctor ordered him to take a sea voyage and he went to Australia and took Dorothy with him . 
That cost a lot of money , too . 
Uncle Henry grew poorer every year , and the crops raised on the farm only bought food for the family . 
Therefore the mortgage could not be paid . 
At last the banker who had loaned him the money said that if he did not pay on a certain day , his farm would be taken away from him . 
This worried Uncle Henry a good deal , for without the farm he would have no way to earn a living . 
He was a good man , and worked in the field as hard as he could and Aunt Em did all the housework , with Dorothy's help . 
Yet they did not seem to get along . 
This little girl , Dorothy , was like dozens of little girls you know . 
She was loving and usually sweet tempered , and had a round rosy face and earnest eyes . 
Life was a serious thing to Dorothy , and a wonderful thing , too , for she had encountered more strange adventures in her short life than many other girls of her age . 
Aunt Em once said she thought the fairies must have marked Dorothy at her birth , because she had wandered into strange places and had always been protected by some unseen power . 
But Dorothy never brought any jewels home with her , so their poverty became greater every year . 
But they were getting old and feeble and she feared that they could not take care of Dorothy as well as they had formerly done . 
Probably the little girl would also be obliged to go to work . 
Then Dorothy asked them to tell her what was the matter . 
We must give up the farm , my dear , replied her uncle sadly , and wander away into the world to work for our living . 
The girl listened quite seriously , for she had not known before how desperately poor they were . 
What could I do to earn money ? asked Dorothy . 
You might do housework for some one , dear , you are so handy or perhaps you could be a nurse maid to little children . 
We fear , though , that we shall have much trouble in earning a living for ourselves . 
No one wants to employ old people who are broken down in health , as we are . 
Yes Ozma made me a Princess some time ago , and she has often begged me to come and live always in the Emerald City , said the child . 
Her uncle and aunt looked at her in amazement . 
Then the man said Do you suppose you could manage to return to your fairyland , my dear ? Oh yes , replied Dorothy I could do that easily . 
How ? asked Aunt Em . 
Ozma sees me every day at four o'clock , in her Magic Picture . 
She can see me wherever I am , no matter what I am doing . 
And at that time , if I make a certain secret sign , she will send for me by means of the Magic Belt , which I once captured from the Nome King . 
Then , in the wink of an eye , I shall be with Ozma in her palace . 
The elder people remained silent for some time after Dorothy had spoken . 
Finally , Aunt Em said , with another sigh of regret If that is the case , Dorothy , perhaps you'd better go and live in the Emerald City . 
I'm not so sure about that , remarked Uncle Henry , shaking his gray head doubtfully . 
These things all seem real to Dorothy , I know but I'm afraid our little girl won't find her fairyland just what she had dreamed it to be . 
It would make me very unhappy to think that she was wandering among strangers who might be unkind to her . 
She knew that she COULD help them . 
She had thought of a way already . 
Yet she did not tell them at once what it was , because she must ask Ozma's consent before she would be able to carry out her plans . 
So she only said If you will promise not to worry a bit about me , I'll go to the Land of Oz this very afternoon . 
And I'll make a promise , too that you shall both see me again before the day comes when you must leave this farm . 
The day isn't far away , now , her uncle sadly replied . 
I did not tell you of our trouble until I was obliged to , dear Dorothy , so the evil time is near at hand . 
But if you are quite sure your fairy friends will give you a home , it will be best for you to go to them , as your aunt says . 
That was why Dorothy went to her little room in the attic that afternoon , taking with her a small dog named Toto . 
The dog had curly black hair and big brown eyes and loved Dorothy very dearly . 
She was tempted at first to make a bundle of them , yet she knew very well that they would be of no use to her in her future life . 
She sat down upon a broken backed chair the only one the room contained and holding Toto in her arms waited patiently until the clock struck four . 
Then she made the secret signal that had been agreed upon between her and Ozma . 
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em waited downstairs . 
So they watched the stairs , which seemed to be the only way that Dorothy could get out of the farmhouse , and they watched them a long time . 
They heard the clock strike four but there was no sound from above . 
Half past four came , and now they were too impatient to wait any longer . 
Softly , they crept up the stairs to the door of the little girl's room . 
Dorothy ! Dorothy ! they called . 
They opened the door and looked in . 
How Ozma Granted Dorothy's Request I suppose you have read so much about the magnificent Emerald City that there is little need for me to describe it here . 
It is the Capital City of the Land of Oz , which is justly considered the most attractive and delightful fairyland in all the world . 
The Emerald City is built all of beautiful marbles in which are set a profusion of emeralds , every one exquisitely cut and of very great size . 
There are other jewels used in the decorations inside the houses and palaces , such as rubies , diamonds , sapphires , amethysts and turquoises . 
But in the streets and upon the outside of the buildings only emeralds appear , from which circumstance the place is named the Emerald City of Oz . 
It has nine thousand , six hundred and fifty four buildings , in which lived fifty seven thousand three hundred and eighteen people , up to the time my story opens . 
No disease of any sort was ever known among the Ozites , and so no one ever died unless he met with an accident that prevented him from living . 
This happened very seldom , indeed . 
There were no poor people in the Land of Oz , because there was no such thing as money , and all property of every sort belonged to the Ruler . 
The people were her children , and she cared for them . 
Each person was given freely by his neighbors whatever he required for his use , which is as much as any one may reasonably desire . 
Some tilled the lands and raised great crops of grain , which was divided equally among the entire population , so that all had enough . 
There were many tailors and dressmakers and shoemakers and the like , who made things that any who desired them might wear . 
Likewise there were jewelers who made ornaments for the person , which pleased and beautified the people , and these ornaments also were free to those who asked for them . 
There were no cruel overseers set to watch them , and no one to rebuke them or to find fault with them . 
So each one was proud to do all he could for his friends and neighbors , and was glad when they would accept the things he produced . 
You will know by what I have here told you , that the Land of Oz was a remarkable country . 
I do not suppose such an arrangement would be practical with us , but Dorothy assures me that it works finely with the Oz people . 
Oz being a fairy country , the people were , of course , fairy people but that does not mean that all of them were very unlike the people of our own world . 
There were all sorts of queer characters among them , but not a single one who was evil , or who possessed a selfish or violent nature . 
They were peaceful , kind hearted , loving and merry , and every inhabitant adored the beautiful girl who ruled them and delighted to obey her every command . 
Their necks were like rubber , so that they could shoot out their heads to quite a distance , and afterward draw them back again to their shoulders . 
The Hammer Heads were called the Wild People , but never harmed any but those who disturbed them in the mountains where they lived . 
Not so tame were the Fighting Trees , which had a forest of their own . 
If any one approached them these curious trees would bend down their branches , twine them around the intruders , and hurl them away . 
But these unpleasant things existed only in a few remote parts of the Land of Oz . 
I suppose every country has some drawbacks , so even this almost perfect fairyland could not be quite perfect . 
Once there had been wicked witches in the land , too but now these had all been destroyed so , as I said , only peace and happiness reigned in Oz . 
For some time Ozma had ruled over this fair country , and never was Ruler more popular or beloved . 
She is said to be the most beautiful girl the world has ever known , and her heart and mind are as lovely as her person . 
Dorothy Gale had several times visited the Emerald City and experienced adventures in the Land of Oz , so that she and Ozma had now become firm friends . 
A few seconds after she had made the secret signal in her little bedchamber , the Kansas girl was seated in a lovely room in Ozma's palace in the Emerald City of Oz . 
And whenever you signal me to transport you to this safe place , where you are always welcome , I know you are in danger or in trouble . 
This time , Ozma , it isn't I , she replied . 
Tell me about it , Dorothy , said Ozma , with ready sympathy . 
Why , you see Uncle Henry is poor for the farm in Kansas doesn't 'mount to much , as farms go . 
So one day Uncle Henry borrowed some money , and wrote a letter saying that if he didn't pay the money back they could take his farm for pay . 
Course he 'spected to pay by making money from the farm but he just couldn't . 
An' so they're going to take the farm , and Uncle Henry and Aunt Em won't have any place to live . 
Unless what , dear ? she asked . 
Dorothy hesitated , because her request meant so much to them all . 
Well , said she , I'd like to live here in the Land of Oz , where you've often 'vited me to live . 
But I can't , you know , unless Uncle Henry and Aunt Em could live here too . 
Of course not , exclaimed the Ruler of Oz , laughing gaily . 
So , in order to get you , little friend , we must invite your Uncle and Aunt to live in Oz , also . 
Oh , will you , Ozma ? cried Dorothy , clasping her chubby little hands eagerly . 
I have long been thinking of this very thing , Dorothy dear , and often I have had it in my mind to propose it to you . 
Dorothy was delighted , yet not altogether surprised , for she had clung to the hope that Ozma would be kind enough to grant her request . 
Princess Dorothy will not , replied Ozma with her sweet smile . 
You are going to live in your own rooms in this palace , and be my constant companion . 
But Uncle Henry began Dorothy . 
And why make the journey back to Kansas again ? Let us surprise them , and bring them here without any warning . 
I'm not sure that they believe in the Land of Oz , said Dorothy , though I've told 'em 'bout it lots of times . 
They'll believe when they see it , declared Ozma and if they are told they are to make a magical journey to our fairyland , it may make them nervous . 
I think the best way will be to use the Magic Belt without warning them , and when they have arrived you can explain to them whatever they do not understand . 
Perhaps that's best , decided Dorothy . 
There isn't much use in their staying at the farm until they are put out , 'cause it's much nicer here . 
Then to morrow morning they shall come here , said Princess Ozma . 
Thank you , Ozma ! cried Dorothy , kissing her friend gratefully . 
And now , Ozma proposed , let us take a walk in the gardens before we dress for dinner . 
Come , Dorothy dear ! . 
How The Nome King Planned Revenge The reason most people are bad is because they do not try to be good . 
Now , the Nome King had never tried to be good , so he was very bad indeed . 
About the time Dorothy went to Ozma the Nome King called his Chief Steward to him and said Kaliko , I think I shall make you the General of my armies . 
I think you won't , replied Kaliko , positively . 
Why not ? inquired the King , reaching for his scepter with the big sapphire . 
Because I'm your Chief Steward and know nothing of warfare , said Kaliko , preparing to dodge if anything were thrown at him . 
I manage all the affairs of your kingdom better than you could yourself , and you'll never find another Steward as good as I am . 
But there are a hundred Nomes better fitted to command your army , and your Generals get thrown away so often that I have no desire to be one of them . 
Ah , there is some truth in your remarks , Kaliko , remarked the King , deciding not to throw the scepter . 
Summon my army to assemble in the Great Cavern . 
Kaliko bowed and retired , and in a few minutes returned to say that the army was assembled . 
So the King went out upon a balcony that overlooked the Great Cavern , where fifty thousand Nomes , all armed with swords and pikes , stood marshaled in military array . 
They were strangely formed creatures , rather round and not very tall . 
Their toes were curly and their ears broad and flat . 
In time of war every Nome left his forge or mine and became part of the great army of King Roquat . 
The soldiers wore rock colored uniforms and were excellently drilled . 
Then he addressed them from the balcony , saying I have thrown away General Blug , because he did not please me . 
So I want another General to command this army . 
Who is next in command ? I am , replied Colonel Crinkle , a dapper looking Nome , as he stepped forward to salute his monarch . 
The King looked at him carefully and said I want you to march this army through an underground tunnel , which I am going to bore , to the Emerald City of Oz . 
When you get there I want you to conquer the Oz people , destroy them and their city , and bring all their gold and silver and precious stones back to my cavern . 
Also you are to recapture my Magic Belt and return it to me . 
Will you do this , General Crinkle ? No , your Majesty , replied the Nome for it can't be done . 
Oh indeed ! exclaimed the King . 
Then he turned to his servants and said Please take General Crinkle to the torture chamber . 
There you will kindly slice him into thin slices . 
Afterward you may feed him to the seven headed dogs . 
Anything to oblige your Majesty , replied the servants , politely , and led the condemned man away . 
When they had gone , the King addressed the army again . 
The General who is to command my armies must promise to carry out my orders . 
If he fails he will share the fate of poor Crinkle . 
Now , then , who will volunteer to lead my hosts to the Emerald City ? For a time no one moved and all were silent . 
Then an old Nome with white whiskers so long that they were tied around his waist to prevent their tripping him up , stepped out of the ranks and saluted the King . 
I'd like to ask a few questions , your Majesty , he said . 
Go ahead , replied the King . 
These Oz people are quite good , are they not ? As good as apple pie , said the King . 
And they are happy , I suppose ? continued the old Nome . 
Happy as the day is long , said the King . 
And contented and prosperous ? inquired the Nome . 
Very much so , said the King . 
Well , your Majesty , remarked he of the white whiskers , I think I should like to undertake the job , so I'll be your General . 
I hate good people I detest happy people I'm opposed to any one who is contented and prosperous . 
That is why I am so fond of your Majesty . 
Make me your General and I'll promise to conquer and destroy the Oz people . 
If I fail I'm ready to be sliced thin and fed to the seven headed dogs . 
Very good ! Very good , indeed ! That's the way to talk ! cried Roquat the Red , who was greatly pleased . 
What is your name , General ? I'm called Guph , your Majesty . 
Well , Guph , come with me to my private cave , and we'll talk it over . 
Then he turned to the army . 
Nomes and soldiers , said he , you are to obey the commands of General Guph until he becomes dog feed . 
Any man who fails to obey his new General will be promptly thrown away . 
Guph went to the King's private cave and sat down upon an amethyst chair and put his feet on the arm of the King's ruby throne . 
Then he lighted his pipe and threw the live coal he had taken from his pocket upon the King's left foot and puffed the smoke into the King's eyes and made himself comfortable . 
For he was a wise old Nome , and he knew that the best way to get along with Roquat the Red was to show that he was not afraid of him . 
I'm ready for the talk , your Majesty , he said . 
The King coughed and looked at his new General fiercely . 
Do you not tremble to take such liberties with your monarch ? he asked . 
Oh no , replied Guph , calmly , and he blew a wreath of smoke that curled around the King's nose and made him sneeze . 
You want to conquer the Emerald City , and I'm the only Nome in all your dominions who can conquer it . 
So you will be very careful not to hurt me until I have carried out your wishes . 
After that Well , what then ? inquired the King . 
Then you will be so grateful to me that you won't care to hurt me , replied the General . 
That is a very good argument , said Roquat . 
But suppose you fail ? Then it's the slicing machine . 
I agree to that , announced Guph . 
But if you do as I tell you there will be no failure . 
The trouble with you , Roquat , is that you don't think carefully enough . 
You would go ahead and march through your tunnel into Oz , and get defeated and driven back . 
And the reason I won't is because when I march I'll have all my plans made , and a host of allies to assist my Nomes . 
What do you mean by that ? asked the King . 
I'll explain , King Roquat . 
You're going to attack a fairy country , and a mighty fairy country , too . 
Also I have heard that there is a wonderful Wizard in Ozma's palace , who is so skillful that people used to pay him money in America to see him perform . 
So you see it will be no easy thing to overcome all this magic . 
We have fifty thousand soldiers ! cried the King proudly . 
Yes but they are Nomes , remarked Guph , taking a silk handkerchief from the King's pocket and wiping his own pointed shoes with it . 
Nomes are immortals , but they are not strong on magic . 
When you lost your famous Belt the greater part of your own power was gone from you . 
Against Ozma you and your Nomes would have no show at all . 
Then away you go to the slicing machine ! he cried . 
Not yet , said the General , filling his pipe from the King's private tobacco pouch . 
What do you propose to do ? asked the monarch . 
I propose to obtain the power we need , answered Guph . 
There are a good many evil creatures who have magic powers sufficient to destroy and conquer the Land of Oz . 
We will get them on our side , band them all together , and then take Ozma and her people by surprise . 
It's all very simple and easy when you know how . 
Alone , we should be helpless to injure the Ruler of Oz , but with the aid of the evil powers we can summon we shall easily succeed . 
King Roquat was delighted with this idea , for he realized how clever it was . 
Surely , Guph , you are the greatest General I have ever had ! he exclaimed , his eyes sparkling with joy . 
You must go at once and make arrangements with the evil powers to assist us , and meantime I'll begin to dig the tunnel . 
I thought you'd agree with me , Roquat , replied the new General . 
I'll start this very afternoon to visit the Chief of the Whimsies . 
He was a gentle , kind hearted little man , and Dorothy grew to like him afterward . 
When , after an absence , the Wizard returned to the Land of Oz , Ozma received him graciously and gave him a home in a part of the palace . 
In addition to the Wizard two other personages from the outside world had been allowed to make their home in the Emerald City . 
Now she received a joyful welcome , although no one except Ozma knew at first that she had finally come to stay for good and all . 
that he had been made a Professor and the head of the Royal College . 
Afterward , she went to see Billina's fast growing family of chicks . 
Toto , Dorothy's little black dog , also met with a cordial reception . 
Toto was an especial friend of the Shaggy Man , and he knew every one else . 
Being the only dog in the Land of Oz , he was highly respected by the people , who believed animals entitled to every consideration if they behaved themselves properly . 
Dorothy had four lovely rooms in the palace , which were always reserved for her use and were called Dorothy's rooms . 
These consisted of a beautiful sitting room , a dressing room , a dainty bedchamber and a big marble bathroom . 
And in these rooms were everything that heart could desire , placed there with loving thoughtfulness by Ozma for her little friend's use . 
The royal dressmakers had the little girl's measure , so they kept the closets in her dressing room filled with lovely dresses of every description and suitable for every occasion . 
Of course Dorothy enjoyed all these luxuries , and the only reason she had heretofore preferred to live in Kansas was because her uncle and aunt loved her and needed her with them . 
Next morning , at Ozma's request , Dorothy dressed herself in a pretty sky blue gown of rich silk , trimmed with real pearls . 
The buckles of her shoes were set with pearls , too , and more of these priceless gems were on a lovely coronet which she wore upon her forehead . 
Dorothy agreed to this , although she knew that neither gowns nor jewels could make her anything else than the simple , unaffected little girl she had always been . 
But I think it would be fitting , in receiving such distinguished guests , for us to sit in my Throne Room . 
Oh , they're not very 'stinguished , Ozma , said Dorothy . 
They're just plain people , like me . 
Being your friends and relatives , Princess Dorothy , they are certainly distinguished , replied the Ruler , with a smile . 
They they won't hardly know what to make of all your splendid furniture and things , protested Dorothy , gravely . 
It may scare 'em to see your grand Throne Room , an' p'raps we'd better go into the back yard , Ozma , where the cabbages grow an' the chickens are playing . 
Then it would seem more natural to Uncle Henry and Aunt Em . 
So together they went to the Throne Room , an immense domed chamber in the center of the palace . 
Here stood the royal throne , made of solid gold and encrusted with enough precious stones to stock a dozen jewelry stores in our country . 
Ozma , who was wearing the Magic Belt , seated herself in the throne , and Dorothy sat at her feet . 
In the room were assembled many ladies and gentlemen of the court , clothed in rich apparel and wearing fine jewelry . 
Two immense animals squatted , one on each side of the throne the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger . 
Are you ready , Dorothy ? asked the Ruler . 
I am , replied Dorothy but I don't know whether Aunt Em and Uncle Henry are ready . 
That won't matter , declared Ozma . 
The old life can have very little to interest them , and the sooner they begin the new life here the happier they will be . 
If the ladies and gentlemen present had not been so polite I am sure they would have laughed at the two strangers . 
Aunt Em had her calico dress skirt tucked up , and she wore a faded , blue checked apron . 
Her hair was rather straggly and she had on a pair of Uncle Henry's old slippers . 
In one hand she held a dish towel and in the other a cracked earthenware plate , which she had been engaged in wiping when so suddenly transported to the Land of Oz . 
Uncle Henry , when the summons came , had been out in the barn doin' chores . 
He wore a ragged and much soiled straw hat , a checked shirt without any collar and blue overalls tucked into the tops of his old cowhide boots . 
By gum ! gasped Uncle Henry , looking around as if bewildered . 
Well , I swan ! gurgled Aunt Em in a hoarse , frightened voice . 
Don't be afraid , she said to them . 
You are now in the Land of Oz , where you are to live always , and be comfer'ble an' happy . 
You'll never have to worry over anything again , 'cause there won't be anything to worry about . 
And you owe it all to the kindness of my friend Princess Ozma . 
Here she led them before the throne and continued Your Highness , this is Uncle Henry . 
And this is Aunt Em . 
They want to thank you for bringing them here from Kansas . 
Aunt Em tried to slick her hair , and she hid the dish towel and dish under her apron while she bowed to the lovely Ozma . 
Uncle Henry took off his straw hat and held it awkwardly in his hands . 
You are very welcome here , where I have brought you for Princess Dorothy's sake , she said , graciously , and I hope you will be quite happy in your new home . 
It will please me to have you show them every kindness and honor in your power , and to join me in making them happy and contented . 
Hearing this , all those assembled bowed low and respectfully to the old farmer and his wife , who bobbed their own heads in return . 
And now , said Ozma to them , Dorothy will show you the rooms prepared for you . 
I hope you will like them , and shall expect you to join me at luncheon . 
Why didn't you tell us what you were goin' to do ? inquired Uncle Henry , reproachfully . 
If I'd known about it , I'd 'a put on my Sunday clothes . 
I'll 'splain ever'thing as soon as we get to your rooms , promised Dorothy . 
'Pears to me , Dorothy , we won't make bang up fairies , he remarked . 
An' my back hair looks like a fright ! wailed Aunt Em . 
Never mind , returned the little girl , reassuringly . 
You won't have anything to do now but to look pretty , Aunt Em an' Uncle Henry won't have to work till his back aches , that's certain . 
Sure ? they asked , wonderingly , and in the same breath . 
Course I'm sure , said Dorothy . 
You're in the Fairyland of Oz , now an' what's more , you belong to it ! . 
How Guph Visited the Whimsies The new General of the Nome King's army knew perfectly well that to fail in his plans meant death for him . 
Yet he was not at all anxious or worried . 
He hated every one who was good and longed to make all who were happy unhappy . 
Yet Guph determined to be careful , and to lay his plans well , so as not to fail . 
He argued that only careless people fail in what they attempt to do . 
As the mountains were also on the edge of the desert the Nome King found that he had only to tunnel underneath the desert to reach Ozma's dominions . 
The Nomes were used to making tunnels , as all the kingdom in which they lived was under ground so they made rapid progress . 
While this work was going on General Guph started out alone to visit the Chief of the Whimsies . 
These Whimsies were curious people who lived in a retired country of their own . 
They had large , strong bodies , but heads so small that they were no bigger than door knobs . 
On these pasteboard heads they sewed sheep's wool for hair , and the wool was colored many tints pink , green and lavender being the favorite colors . 
The Chief of the Whimsies had as little wisdom as the others , and had been chosen chief merely because none among them was any wiser or more capable of ruling . 
The Whimsies were evil spirits and could not be killed . 
They were hated and feared by every one and were known as terrible fighters because they were so strong and muscular and had not sense enough to know when they were defeated . 
So he traveled to their country and asked to see the Chief , who lived in a house that had a picture of his grotesque false head painted over the doorway . 
The Chief's false head had blue hair , a turned up nose , and a mouth that stretched half across the face . 
Said General Guph to the Chief of the Whimsies We Nomes are going to conquer the Land of Oz and capture our King's Magic Belt , which the Oz people stole from him . 
Then we are going to plunder and destroy the whole country . 
And we want the Whimsies to help us . 
Will there be any fighting ? asked the Chief . 
That must have pleased the Chief , for he got up and danced around the room three times . 
Then he seated himself again , adjusted his false head , and said We have no quarrel with Ozma of Oz . 
But you Whimsies love to fight , and here is a splendid chance to do so , urged Guph . 
Wait till I sing a song , said the Chief . 
Then he lay back in his chair and sang a foolish song that did not seem to the General to mean anything , although he listened carefully . 
People often do a good deed without hope of reward , but for an evil deed they always demand payment . 
Then you will no longer be ashamed because your big strong bodies have such teenty weenty heads . 
Oh ! Will you do that ? asked the Chief , eagerly . 
We surely will , promised the General . 
I'll talk to my people , said the Chief . 
So he called a meeting of all the Whimsies and told them of the offer made by the Nomes . 
The creatures were delighted with the bargain , and at once agreed to fight for the Nome King and help him to conquer Oz . 
So the compact was made and General Guph was delighted with his success in gaining such powerful allies . 
But there were other people , too , just as important as the Whimsies , whom the clever old Nome had determined to win to his side . 
How Aunt Em Conquered the Lion These are your rooms , said Dorothy , opening a door . 
Aunt Em drew back at the sight of the splendid furniture and draperies . 
Ain't there any place to wipe my feet ? she asked . 
You will soon change your slippers for new shoes , replied Dorothy . 
Don't be afraid , Aunt Em . 
Here is where you are to live , so walk right in and make yourself at home . 
It beats the Topeka Hotel ! she cried admiringly . 
But this place is too grand for us , child . 
Can't we have some back room in the attic , that's more in our class ? No , said Dorothy . 
You've got to live here , 'cause Ozma says so . 
And all the rooms in this palace are just as fine as these , and some are better . 
It won't do any good to fuss , Aunt Em . 
You've got to be swell and high toned in the Land of Oz , whether you want to or not so you may as well make up your mind to it . 
It's hard luck , replied her aunt , looking around with an awed expression but folks can get used to anything , if they try . 
Eh , Henry ? Why , as to that , said Uncle Henry , slowly , I b'lieve in takin' what's pervided us , an' askin' no questions . 
I've traveled some , Em , in my time , and you hain't an' that makes a difference atween us . 
Then Dorothy showed them through the rooms . 
The first was a handsome sitting room , with windows opening upon the rose gardens . 
Then came separate bedrooms for Aunt Em and Uncle Henry , with a fine bathroom between them . 
Everything that Aunt Em could possibly need was in the drawers and closets , and her dressing table was covered with engraved gold toilet articles . 
Uncle Henry had nine suits of clothes , cut in the popular Munchkin fashion , with knee breeches , silk stockings , and low shoes with jeweled buckles . 
The hats to match these costumes had pointed tops and wide brims with small gold bells around the edges . 
His shirts were of fine linen with frilled bosoms , and his vests were richly embroidered with colored silks . 
Uncle Henry decided that he would first take a bath and then dress himself in a blue satin suit that had caught his fancy . 
He accepted his good fortune with calm composure and refused to have a servant to assist him . 
Finally she was dressed , and when she went into the sitting room there was Uncle Henry in his blue satin , walking gravely up and down the room . 
He had trimmed his beard and mustache and looked very dignified and respectable . 
You'll find all the men at Ozma's court dressed just as you are only perhaps a little finer . 
Henry , you look like a play actor , announced Aunt Em , looking at her husband critically . 
An' you , Em , look more highfalutin' than a peacock , he replied . 
I guess you're right , she said regretfully but we're helpless victims of high toned royalty . 
Come with me , she said , and I'll show you 'round the palace . 
She took them through the beautiful rooms and introduced them to all the people they chanced to meet . 
Also she showed them her own pretty rooms , which were not far from their own . 
Why , he's just now away on a visit to the Tin Woodman , who is Emp'ror of the Winkie Country , answered the little girl . 
You'll see him when he comes back , and you're sure to like him . 
And where's the Wonderful Wizard ? asked Aunt Em . 
You'll see him at Ozma's luncheon , for he lives here in this palace , was the reply . 
And Jack Pumpkinhead ? Oh , he lives a little way out of town , in his own pumpkin field . 
We'll go there some time and see him , and we'll call on Professor Wogglebug , too . 
The Shaggy Man will be at the luncheon , I guess , and Tiktok . 
And now I'll take you out to see Billina , who has a house of her own . 
Good morning , my dear Mistress , called Billina , fluttering down to meet them . 
I was expecting you to call , for I heard you had come back and brought your uncle and aunt with you . 
We're here for good and all , this time , Billina , cried Dorothy , joyfully . 
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em belong to Oz now as much as I do ! Then they are very lucky people , declared Billina for there couldn't be a nicer place to live . 
But come , my dear I must show you all my Dorothys . 
They all had the letter 'D' engraved upon their gold lockets , you remember , with your picture inside , and 'D' stands for Daniel as well as for Dorothy . 
Did you call both the roosters Daniel ? asked Uncle Henry . 
I've nine Dorothys and two Daniels and the nine Dorothys have eighty six sons and daughters and over three hundred grandchildren , said Billina , proudly . 
What names do you give 'em all , dear ? inquired the little girl . 
Oh , they are all Dorothys and Daniels , some being Juniors and some Double Juniors . 
Dorothy and Daniel are two good names , and I see no object in hunting for others , declared the Yellow Hen . 
You ought to be very proud , ma'am , said Uncle Henry , who was astonished to hear a hen talk so sensibly . 
Oh , I am , she replied . 
I've the loveliest pearl necklace you ever saw . 
Come in the house and I'll show it to you . 
And I've nine leg bracelets and a diamond pin for each wing . 
But I only wear them on state occasions . 
They followed the Yellow Hen into the house , which Aunt Em declared was neat as a pin . 
They could not sit down , because all Billina's chairs were roosting poles made of silver so they had to stand while the hen fussily showed them her treasures . 
Then they had to go into the back rooms occupied by Billina's nine Dorothys and two Daniels , who were all plump yellow chickens and greeted the visitors very politely . 
It was easy to see that they were well bred and that Billina had looked after their education . 
In the yards were all the children and grandchildren of these eleven elders and they were of all sizes , from well grown hens to tiny chickens just out of the shell . 
About fifty fluffy yellow youngsters were at school , being taught good manners and good grammar by a young hen who wore spectacles . 
They sang in chorus a patriotic song of the Land of Oz , in honor of their visitors , and Aunt Em was much impressed by these talking chickens . 
I'll stay here , and you can go for a walk , said Dorothy . 
You'll be perfec'ly safe anywhere , and may do whatever you want to . 
When you get tired , go back to the palace and find your rooms , and I'll come to you before luncheon is ready . 
They stopped short , Uncle Henry trembling with horror and Aunt Em too terrified to scream . 
So let's die as brave an' graceful as we can . 
I knew our luck couldn't last ! I won't die . 
I won't be eaten by a lion ! wailed Aunt Em , glaring upon the huge beast . 
Then a thought struck her , and she whispered , Henry , I've heard as savage beastses can be conquered by the human eye . 
I'll eye that lion out o' countenance an' save our lives . 
Try it , Em , he returned , also in a whisper . 
Look at him as you do at me when I'm late to dinner . 
Aunt Em turned upon the Lion a determined countenance and a wild dilated eye . 
She glared at the immense beast steadily , and the Lion , who had been quietly blinking at them , began to appear uneasy and disturbed . 
Is anything the matter , ma'am ? he asked , in a mild voice . 
Hold on , Em ! he exclaimed . 
Quit the eagle eye conquest an' take courage . 
I guess this is the same Cowardly Lion Dorothy has told us about . 
Oh , is it ? she cried , much relieved . 
When he spoke , I got the idea and when he looked so 'shamed like , I was sure of it , Uncle Henry continued . 
Aunt Em regarded the animal with new interest . 
Are you the Cowardly Lion ? she inquired . 
Are you Dorothy's friend ? Yes'm , answered the Lion , meekly . 
Dorothy and I are old chums and are very fond of each other . 
I'm the King of Beasts , you know , and the Hungry Tiger and I serve Princess Ozma as her body guards . 
To be sure , said Aunt Em , nodding . 
But the King of Beasts shouldn't be cowardly . 
What do you do , run ? asked Uncle Henry . 
No that would be foolish , for the enemy would run after me , declared the Lion . 
So I tremble with fear and pitch in as hard as I can and so far I have always won my fight . 
Ah , I begin to understand , said Uncle Henry . 
Were you scared when I looked at you just now ? inquired Aunt Em . 
Terribly scared , madam , answered the Lion , for at first I thought you were going to have a fit . 
Then I noticed you were trying to overcome me by the power of your eye , and your glance was so fierce and penetrating that I shook with fear . 
This greatly pleased the lady , and she said quite cheerfully Well , I won't hurt you , so don't be scared any more . 
I just wanted to see what the human eye was good for . 
The human eye is a fearful weapon , remarked the Lion , scratching his nose softly with his paw to hide a smile . 
Had I not known you were Dorothy's friends I might have torn you both into shreds in order to escape your terrible gaze . 
Aunt Em shuddered at hearing this , and Uncle Henry said hastily I'm glad you knew us . 
Good morning , Mr. Lion we'll hope to see you again by and by some time in the future . 
Good morning , replied the Lion , squatting down upon the lawn again . 
You are likely to see a good deal of me , if you live in the Land of Oz . 
How the Grand Gallipoot Joined The Nomes After leaving the Whimsies , Guph continued on his journey and penetrated far into the Northwest . 
He wanted to get to the Country of the Growleywogs , and in order to do that he must cross the Ripple Land , which was a hard thing to do . 
For the Ripple Land was a succession of hills and valleys , all very steep and rocky , and they changed places constantly by rippling . 
This was very perplexing to the traveler , and a stranger might have thought he could never cross the Ripple Land at all . 
The result of this wise persistence was that the General finally reached firmer soil and , after penetrating a dense forest , came to the Dominion of the Growleywogs . 
I'm the Lord High General of the Invincible Army of the Nomes , and my name is Guph , was the reply . 
All the world trembles when that name is mentioned . 
The Growleywogs gave a shout of jeering laughter at this , and one of them caught the Nome in his strong arms and tossed him high into the air . 
Guph was considerably shaken when he fell upon the hard ground , but he appeared to take no notice of the impertinence and composed himself to speak again to the Grand Gallipoot . 
My master , King Roquat the Red , has sent me here to confer with you . 
He wishes your assistance to conquer the Land of Oz . 
He mumbled his words badly and Guph had to listen carefully in order to understand him . 
These Growleywogs were certainly remarkable creatures . 
They were of gigantic size , yet were all bone and skin and muscle , there being no meat or fat upon their bodies at all . 
It seems unfortunate that strong people are usually so disagreeable and overbearing that no one cares for them . 
In fact , to be different from your fellow creatures is always a misfortune . 
The Growleywogs knew that they were disliked and avoided by every one , so they had become surly and unsociable even among themselves . 
The Land of Oz is ruled by a namby pamby girl who is disgustingly kind and good , he continued . 
Her people are all happy and contented and have no care or worries whatever . 
Go on ! growled the Grand Gallipoot . 
Once the Nome King enslaved the Royal Family of Ev another goody goody lot that we detest , said the General . 
But Ozma interfered , although it was none of her business , and marched her army against us . 
With her was a Kansas girl named Dorothy , and a Yellow Hen , and they marched directly into the Nome King's cavern . 
There they liberated our slaves from Ev and stole King Roquat's Magic Belt , which they carried away with them . 
So now our King is making a tunnel under the deadly desert , so we can march through it to the Emerald City . 
When we get there we mean to conquer and destroy all the land and recapture the Magic Belt . 
Again he paused , and again the Grand Gallipoot growled Go on ! Guph tried to think what to say next , and a happy thought soon occurred to him . 
We want you to help us in this conquest , he announced , for we need the mighty aid of the Growleywogs in order to make sure that we shall not be defeated . 
You are the strongest people in all the world , and you hate good and happy creatures as much as we Nomes do . 
Twenty thousand ! growled the Grand Gallipoot . 
All right , we promise you twenty thousand , agreed the General . 
But while this was going on the Grand Gallipoot was talking with his counselors , who were the most important officials of the Growleywogs . 
When he had stated to them the proposition of the Nome King , he said My advice is to offer to help them . 
Then , when we have conquered the Land of Oz , we will take not only our twenty thousand prisoners but all the gold and jewels we want . 
Let us take the Magic Belt , too , suggested one counselor . 
And rob the Nome King and make him our slave , said another . 
That is a good idea , declared the Grand Gallipoot . 
I'd like King Roquat for my own slave . 
He could black my boots and bring me my porridge every morning while I am in bed . 
There is a famous Scarecrow in Oz . 
I'll take him for my slave , said a counselor . 
I'll take Tiktok , the machine man , said another . 
Give me the Tin Woodman , said a third . 
They went on for some time , dividing up the people and the treasure of Oz in advance of the conquest . 
For they had no doubt at all that they would be able to destroy Ozma's domain . 
So let us send the little fat General back to his King with our promise to assist him . 
We will not say that we intend to conquer the Nomes after we have conquered Oz , but we will do so , just the same . 
This plan being agreed upon , they all went home to dinner , leaving General Guph still in prison . 
The Nome had no idea that he had succeeded in his mission , for finding himself in prison he feared the Growleywogs intended to put him to death . 
By this time the jailer had tired of sticking pins in the General , and was amusing himself by carefully pulling the Nome's whiskers out by the roots , one at a time . 
This enjoyment was interrupted by the Grand Gallipoot sending for the prisoner . 
Wait a few hours , begged the jailer . 
I haven't pulled out a quarter of his whiskers yet . 
If you keep the Grand Gallipoot waiting , he'll break your back , declared the messenger . 
Perhaps you're right , sighed the jailer . 
Take the prisoner away , if you will , but I advise you to kick him at every step he takes . 
It will be good fun , for he is as soft as a ripe peach . 
So Guph was led away to the royal castle , where the Grand Gallipoot told him that the Growleywogs had decided to assist the Nomes in conquering the Land of Oz . 
Whenever you are ready , he added , send me word and I will march with eighteen thousand of my most powerful warriors to your aid . 
Guph was so delighted that he forgot all the smarting caused by the pins and the pulling of whiskers . 
He did not even complain of the treatment he had received , but thanked the Grand Gallipoot and hurried away upon his journey . 
He had now secured the assistance of the Whimsies and the Growleywogs but his success made him long for still more allies . 
His own life depended upon his conquering Oz , and he said to himself I'll take no chances . 
I'll be certain of success . 
Then , when Oz is destroyed , perhaps I shall be a greater man than old Roquat , and I can throw him away and be King of the Nomes myself . 
Why not ? The Whimsies are stronger than the Nomes , and they also are my friends . 
There are some people still stronger than the Growleywogs , and if I can but induce them to aid me I shall have nothing more to fear . 
Yet every one was very courteous and kind to them and endeavored to make them happy . 
The old people were chiefly troubled by the fact that there was no work for them to do . 
Ev'ry day is like Sunday , now , declared Aunt Em , solemnly , and I can't say I like it . 
If they'd only let me do up the dishes after meals , or even sweep an' dust my own rooms , I'd be a deal happier . 
Henry don't know what to do with himself either , and once when he stole out an' fed the chickens Billina scolded him for letting 'em eat between meals . 
I never knew before what a hardship it is to be rich and have everything you want . 
These complaints began to worry Dorothy so she had a long talk with Ozma upon the subject . 
I see I must find them something to do , said the girlish Ruler of Oz , seriously . 
I have been watching your uncle and aunt , and I believe they will be more contented if occupied with some light tasks . 
Oh , that would be fine ! exclaimed Dorothy , eagerly . 
I will mark out a plan of the trip for you and have everything in readiness for you to start to morrow morning . 
Take your time , dear , and be gone as long as you wish . 
By the time you return I shall have found some occupation for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em that will keep them from being restless and dissatisfied . 
Dorothy thanked her good friend and kissed the lovely Ruler gratefully . 
Then she ran to tell the joyful news to her uncle and aunt . 
Next morning , after breakfast , everything was found ready for their departure . 
The escort included Omby Amby , the Captain General of Ozma's army , which consisted merely of twenty seven officers besides the Captain General . 
He was very tall and slim and wore a gay uniform and a fierce mustache . 
Yet the mustache was the only fierce thing about Omby Amby , whose nature was as gentle as that of a child . 
The Shaggy Man had shaggy whiskers and hair , but a sweet disposition and a soft , pleasant voice . 
The Sawhorse wore wooden shoes to keep his wooden legs from wearing away , and he was strong and swift . 
In the front seat of the wagon sat Dorothy and the Wizard . 
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em sat in the next seat and the Shaggy Man and Omby Amby in the third seat . 
Dorothy readily agreed , so the Yellow Hen flew up and perched herself upon the dashboard . 
She wore her pearl necklace and three bracelets upon each leg , in honor of the occasion . 
Dorothy kissed Ozma good bye , and all the people standing around waved their handkerchiefs , and the band in an upper balcony struck up a military march . 
A servant threw open a gate of the palace enclosure , that they might pass out and so , with music and shouts following them , the journey was begun . 
It's almost like a circus , said Aunt Em , proudly . 
I can't help feelin' high an' mighty in this kind of a turn out . 
When they came to the great wall of the Emerald City , the gates were opened by the Guardian who always tended them . 
Over the gateway hung a dull colored metal magnet shaped like a horse shoe , placed against a shield of polished gold . 
That , said the Shaggy Man , impressively , is the wonderful Love Magnet . 
I brought it to the Emerald City myself , and all who pass beneath this gateway are both loving and beloved . 
It's a fine thing , declared Aunt Em , admiringly . 
If we'd had it in Kansas I guess the man who held a mortgage on the farm wouldn't have turned us out . 
Then I'm glad we didn't have it , returned Uncle Henry . 
I like Oz better than Kansas , even an' this little wood Sawhorse beats all the critters I ever saw . 
He don't have to be curried , or fed , or watered , an' he's strong as an ox . 
Can he talk , Dorothy ? Yes , Uncle , replied the child . 
But the Sawhorse never says much . 
He told me once that he can't talk and think at the same time , so he prefers to think . 
Which is very sensible , declared the Wizard , nodding approvingly . 
Which way do we go , Dorothy ? Straight ahead into the Quadling Country , she answered . 
I've got a letter of interduction to Miss Cuttenclip . 
Oh ! exclaimed the Wizard , much interested . 
Are we going there ? Then I'm glad I came , for I've always wanted to meet the Cuttenclips . 
Who are they ? inquired Aunt Em . 
Wait till we get there , replied Dorothy , with a laugh then you'll see for yourself . 
I've never seen the Cuttenclips , you know , so I can't 'zactly 'splain 'em to you . 
Once free of the Emerald City the Sawhorse dashed away at tremendous speed . 
Indeed , he went so fast that Aunt Em had hard work to catch her breath , and Uncle Henry held fast to the seat of the red wagon . 
Gently gently , my boy ! called the Wizard , and at this the Sawhorse slackened his speed . 
What's wrong ? asked the animal , slightly turning his wooden head to look at the party with one eye , which was a knot of wood . 
Why , we wish to admire the scenery , that's all , answered the Wizard . 
Some of your passengers , added the Shaggy Man , have never been out of the Emerald City before , and the country is all new to them . 
If you go too fast you'll spoil all the fun , said Dorothy . 
Very well it is all the same to me , observed the Sawhorse and after that he went at a more moderate pace . 
How can a wooden thing be so intelligent ? he asked . 
Why , I gave him some sawdust brains the last time I fitted his head with new ears , explained the Wizard . 
The sawdust was made from hard knots , and now the Sawhorse is able to think out any knotty problem he meets with . 
I see , said Uncle Henry . 
I don't , remarked Aunt Em but no one paid any attention to this statement . 
Before long they came to a stately building that stood upon a green plain with handsome shade trees grouped here and there . 
What is that ? asked Uncle Henry . 
So the Sawhorse drew up in front of the great building and they were met at the door by the learned Wogglebug himself . 
A tall hat was jauntily set upon his head and he wore spectacles over his big bright eyes . 
Welcome , Dorothy , said the Wogglebug and welcome to all your friends . 
We are indeed pleased to receive you at this great Temple of Learning . 
I thought it was an Athletic College , said the Shaggy Man . 
It is , my dear sir , answered the Wogglebug , proudly . 
Here it is that we teach the youth of our great land scientific College Athletics in all their purity . 
Don't you teach them anything else ? asked Dorothy . 
Don't they get any reading , writing and 'rithmetic ? Oh , yes of course . 
They get all those , and more , returned the Professor . 
But such things occupy little of their time . 
Please follow me and I will show you how my scholars are usually occupied . 
This is a class hour and they are all busy . 
They followed him to a big field back of the college building , where several hundred young Ozites were at their classes . 
In one place they played football , in another baseball . 
Some played tennis , some golf some were swimming in a big pool . 
Upon a river which wound through the grounds several crews in racing boats were rowing with great enthusiasm . 
Other groups of students played basketball and cricket , while in one place a ring was roped in to permit boxing and wrestling by the energetic youths . 
All the collegians seemed busy and there was much laughter and shouting . 
This college , said Professor Wogglebug , complacently , is a great success . 
Its educational value is undisputed , and we are turning out many great and valuable citizens every year . 
But when do they study ? asked Dorothy . 
Study ? said the Wogglebug , looking perplexed at the question . 
Yes when do they get their 'rithmetic , and jogerfy , and such things ? Oh , they take doses of those every night and morning , was the reply . 
What do you mean by doses ? Dorothy inquired , wonderingly . 
Why , we use the newly invented School Pills , made by your friend the Wizard . 
These pills we have found to be very effective , and they save a lot of time . 
Please step this way and I will show you our Laboratory of Learning . 
He led them to a room in the building where many large bottles were standing in rows upon shelves . 
These are the Algebra Pills , said the Professor , taking down one of the bottles . 
One at night , on retiring , is equal to four hours of study . 
Here are the Geography Pills one at night and one in the morning . 
In this next bottle are the Latin Pills one three times a day . 
Then we have the Grammar Pills one before each meal and the Spelling Pills , which are taken whenever needed . 
Your scholars must have to take a lot of pills , remarked Dorothy , thoughtfully . 
How do they take 'em , in applesauce ? No , my dear . 
They are sugar coated and are quickly and easily swallowed . 
I believe the students would rather take the pills than study , and certainly the pills are a more effective method . 
You see , until these School Pills were invented we wasted a lot of time in study that may now be better employed in practicing athletics . 
Seems to me the pills are a good thing , said Omby Amby , who remembered how it used to make his head ache as a boy to study arithmetic . 
They are , sir , declared the Wogglebug , earnestly . 
They give us an advantage over all other colleges , because at no loss of time our boys become thoroughly conversant with Greek and Latin , Mathematics and Geography , Grammar and Literature . 
You see they are never obliged to interrupt their games to acquire the lesser branches of learning . 
It's a great invention , I'm sure , said Dorothy , looking admiringly at the Wizard , who blushed modestly at this praise . 
We live in an age of progress , announced Professor Wogglebug , pompously . 
It is easier to swallow knowledge than to acquire it laboriously from books . 
Is it not so , my friends ? Some folks can swallow anything , said Aunt Em , but to me this seems too much like taking medicine . 
One day while I was making them I happened to drop one of them , and one of Billina's chickens gobbled it up . 
A few minutes afterward this chick got upon a roost and recited 'The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck' without making a single mistake . 
Then it recited 'The Charge of the Light Brigade' and afterwards 'Excelsior . 
You see , the chicken had eaten an Elocution Pill . 
They now bade good bye to the Professor , and thanking him for his kind reception mounted again into the red wagon and continued their journey . 
So about noon they stopped at a farm house and were given a delicious luncheon of bread and milk , fruits and wheat cakes with maple syrup . 
After resting a while and strolling through the orchards with their host a round , jolly farmer they got into the wagon and again started the Sawhorse along the pretty , winding road . 
I've never seen the Cuttenclips before , remarked Dorothy . 
Nor I , said the Captain General . 
Nor I , said the Wizard . 
Nor I , said Billina . 
I've hardly been out of the Emerald City since I arrived in this country , added the Shaggy Man . 
Why , none of us has been there , then , exclaimed the little girl . 
I wonder what the Cuttenclips are like . 
We shall soon find out , said the Wizard , with a sly laugh . 
I've heard they are rather flimsy things . 
The farm houses became fewer as they proceeded , and the path was at times so faint that the Sawhorse had hard work to keep in the road . 
The wagon began to jounce , too so they were obliged to go slowly . 
After a somewhat wearisome journey they came in sight of a high wall , painted blue with pink ornaments . 
This wall was circular , and seemed to enclose a large space . 
It was so high that only the tops of the trees could be seen above it . 
The path led up to a small door in the wall , which was closed and latched . 
Upon the door was a sign in gold letters reading as follows VISITORS are requested to MOVE SLOWLY and CAREFULLY , and to avoid COUGHING or making any BREEZE or DRAUGHT . 
That's strange , said the Shaggy Man , reading the sign aloud . 
Who ARE the Cuttenclips , anyhow ? Why , they're paper dolls , answered Dorothy . 
Didn't you know that ? Paper dolls ! Then let's go somewhere else , said Uncle Henry . 
We're all too old to play with dolls , Dorothy . 
But these are different , declared the girl . 
Alive ! gasped Aunt Em , in amazement . 
Let's go in , said Dorothy . 
So they all got out of the wagon , since the door in the wall was not big enough for them to drive the Sawhorse and wagon through it . 
You stay here , Toto ! commanded Dorothy , shaking her finger at the little dog . 
You're so careless that you might make a breeze if I let you inside . 
Toto wagged his tail as if disappointed at being left behind but he made no effort to follow them . 
The Wizard unlatched the door , which opened outward , and they all looked eagerly inside . 
Just before the entrance was drawn up a line of tiny soldiers , with uniforms brightly painted and paper guns upon their shoulders . 
They were exactly alike , from one end of the line to the other , and all were cut out of paper and joined together in the centers of their bodies . 
Hi there ! called one of them what do you mean by slamming the door and blowing us over ? I beg your pardon , I'm sure , said the Wizard , regretfully . 
I didn't know you were so delicate . 
We're not delicate ! retorted another soldier , raising his head from the ground . 
We are strong and healthy but we can't stand draughts . 
May I help you up ? asked Dorothy . 
If you please , replied the end soldier . 
But do it gently , little girl . 
Dorothy carefully stood up the line of soldiers , who first dusted their painted clothes and then saluted the visitors with their paper muskets . 
From the end it was easy to see that the entire line had been cut out of paper , although from the front the soldiers looked rather solid and imposing . 
I've a letter of introduction from Princess Ozma to Miss Cuttenclip , announced Dorothy . 
Very well , said the end soldier , and blew upon a paper whistle that hung around his neck . 
At once a paper soldier in a Captain's uniform came out of a paper house near by and approached the group at the entrance . 
He wavered and struggled and finally managed to remain upon his feet . 
Take care , Miss ! he said , warningly . 
You're breaking the rules , you know , by laughing . 
Oh , I didn't know that , she replied . 
To laugh in this place is nearly as dangerous as to cough , said the Captain . 
You'll have to breathe very quietly , I assure you . 
We'll try to , promised the girl . 
May we see Miss Cuttenclip , please ? You may , promptly returned the Captain . 
This is one of her reception days . 
Be good enough to follow me . 
Beside the path were paper trees , all cut out very neatly and painted a brilliant green color . 
And back of the trees were rows of cardboard houses , painted in various colors but most of them having green blinds . 
Some were large and some small , and in the front yards were beds of paper flowers quite natural in appearance . 
Over some of the porches paper vines were twined , giving them a cozy and shady look . 
As the visitors passed along the street a good many paper dolls came to the doors and windows of their houses to look at them curiously . 
These dolls were nearly all the same height , but were cut into various shapes , some being fat and some lean . 
The girl dolls wore many beautiful costumes of tissue paper , making them quite fluffy but their heads and hands were no thicker than the paper of which they were made . 
Excuse me if I go edgewise , remarked the Captain as they came to a slight hill . 
I can get along faster that way and not flutter so much . 
That's all right , said Dorothy . 
We don't mind how you go , I'm sure . 
At one side of the street was a paper pump , and a paper boy was pumping paper water into a paper pail . 
At the same time , the pail went into the air , spilling the paper water , while the paper pump bent nearly double . 
Goodness me ! said the Hen . 
If I should flop my wings I believe I'd knock over the whole village ! Then don't flop them please don't ! entreated the Captain . 
Miss Cuttenclip would be very much distressed if her village was spoiled . 
Oh , I'll be careful , promised Billina . 
Are not all these paper girls and women named Miss Cuttenclips ? inquired Omby Amby . 
No indeed , answered the Captain , who was walking better since he began to move edgewise . 
There is but one Miss Cuttenclip , who is our Queen , because she made us all . 
These girls are Cuttenclips , to be sure , but their names are Emily and Polly and Sue and Betty and such things . 
Only the Queen is called Miss Cuttenclip . 
I must say that this place beats anything I ever heard of , observed Aunt Em . 
I used to play with paper dolls myself , an' cut 'em out but I never thought I'd ever see such things alive . 
I don't see as it's any more curious than hearing hens talk , returned Uncle Henry . 
You're likely to see many queer things in the Land of Oz , sir , said the Wizard . 
But a fairy country is extremely interesting when you get used to being surprised . 
Here we are ! called the Captain , stopping before a cottage . 
This house was made of wood , and was remarkably pretty in design . 
In the Emerald City it would have been considered a tiny dwelling , indeed but in the midst of this paper village it seemed immense . 
Real flowers were in the garden and real trees grew beside it . 
Upon the front door was a sign reading MISS CUTTENCLIP . 
Just as they reached the porch the front door opened and a little girl stood before them . 
She appeared to be about the same age as Dorothy , and smiling upon her visitors she said , sweetly You are welcome . 
All the party seemed relieved to find that here was a real girl , of flesh and blood . 
She was very dainty and pretty as she stood there welcoming them . 
Her hair was a golden blonde and her eyes turquoise blue . 
She had rosy cheeks and lovely white teeth . 
Over her simple white lawn dress she wore an apron with pink and white checks , and in one hand she held a pair of scissors . 
May we see Miss Cuttenclip , please ? asked Dorothy . 
I am Miss Cuttenclip , was the reply . 
The sheets and scraps were of all colors . 
Upon a table were paints and brushes , while several pair of scissors , of different sizes , were lying about . 
Sit down , please , said Miss Cuttenclip , clearing the paper scraps off some of the chairs . 
It is so long since I have had any visitors that I am not properly prepared to receive them . 
But I'm sure you will pardon my untidy room , for this is my workshop . 
Do you make all the paper dolls ? inquired Dorothy . 
Yes I cut them out with my scissors , and paint the faces and some of the costumes . 
It is very pleasant work , and I am happy making my paper village grow . 
But how do the paper dolls happen to be alive ? asked Aunt Em . 
The first dolls I made were not alive , said Miss Cuttenclip . 
I used to live near the castle of a great Sorceress named Glinda the Good , and she saw my dolls and said they were very pretty . 
I told her I thought I would like them better if they were alive , and the next day the Sorceress brought me a lot of magic paper . 
'This is live paper , she said , 'and all the dolls you cut out of it will be alive , and able to think and to talk . 
When you have used it all up , come to me and I will give you more . 
But they were so thin that I found that any breeze would blow them over and scatter them dreadfully so Glinda found this lonely place for me , where few people ever come . 
She built the wall to keep any wind from blowing away my people , and told me I could build a paper village here and be its Queen . 
That is why I came here and settled down to work and started the village you now see . 
Many years ago ! exclaimed Aunt Em . 
Why , how old are you , child ? I never keep track of the years , said Miss Cuttenclip , laughing . 
You see , I don't grow up at all , but stay just the same as I was when first I came here . 
Perhaps I'm older even than you are , madam but I couldn't say for sure . 
They looked at the lovely little girl wonderingly , and the Wizard asked What happens to your paper village when it rains ? It does not rain here , replied Miss Cuttenclip . 
Glinda keeps all the rain storms away so I never worry about my dolls getting wet . 
But now , if you will come with me , it will give me pleasure to show you over my paper kingdom . 
Of course you must go slowly and carefully , and avoid making any breeze . 
They left the cottage and followed their guide through the various streets of the village . 
In one place a large group of especially nice paper dolls assembled to greet their Queen , whom it was easy to see they loved early . 
These dolls marched and danced before the visitors , and then they all waved their paper handkerchiefs and sang in a sweet chorus a song called The Flag of Our Native Land . 
Miss Cuttenclip was about to make her subjects a speech in reply to this patriotic song , when the Shaggy Man happened to sneeze . 
He was a very loud and powerful sneezer at any time , and he had tried so hard to hold in this sneeze that when it suddenly exploded the result was terrible . 
The paper dolls were mowed down by dozens , and flew and fluttered in wild confusion in every direction , tumbling this way and that and getting more or less wrinkled and bent . 
A wail of terror and grief came from the scattered throng , and Miss Cuttenclip exclaimed Dear me ! dear me ! and hurried at once to the rescue of her overturned people . 
Oh , Shaggy Man ! How could you ? asked Dorothy , reproachfully . 
I couldn't help it really I couldn't , protested the Shaggy Man , looking quite ashamed . 
And I had no idea it took so little to upset these paper dolls . 
So little ! said Dorothy . 
Why , it was 'most as bad as a Kansas cyclone . 
And then she helped Miss Cuttenclip rescue the paper folk and stand them on their feet again . 
Two of the cardboard houses had also tumbled over , and the little Queen said she would have to repair them and paste them together before they could be lived in again . 
And now , fearing they might do more damage to the flimsy paper people , they decided to go away . 
But first they thanked Miss Cuttenclip very warmly for her courtesy and kindness to them . 
Any friend of Princess Ozma is always welcome here unless he sneezes , said the Queen with a rather severe look at the Shaggy Man , who hung his head . 
I like to have visitors admire my wonderful village , and I hope you will call again . 
Miss Cuttenclip herself led them to the door in the wall , and as they passed along the street the paper dolls peeped at them half fearfully from the doors and windows . 
Perhaps they will never forget the Shaggy Man's awful sneeze , and I am sure they were all glad to see the meat people go away . 
How the General Met the First and Foremost On leaving the Growleywogs General Guph had to recross the Ripple Lands , and he did not find it a pleasant thing to do . 
He went on in this furious way until he was half across the Ripple Land . 
Then he became seasick , and the rest of the way this naughty Nome was almost as miserable as he deserved to be . 
But when he reached the plains again and the ground was firm under his feet he began to feel better , and instead of going back home he turned directly west . 
A squirrel , perched in a tree , saw him take this road and called to him warningly Look out ! But he paid no attention . 
An eagle paused in its flight through the air to look at him wonderingly and say Look out ! But on he went . 
The Phanfasms were Erbs , and so dreaded by mortals and immortals alike that no one had been near their mountain home for several thousand years . 
Yet General Guph hoped to induce them to join in his proposed warfare against the good and happy Oz people . 
This gully was about a third of the way up the mountain , and it was filled to the brim with red hot molten lava in which swam fire serpents and poisonous salamanders . 
The heat from this mass and its poisonous smell were both so unbearable that even birds hesitated to fly over the gully , but circled around it . 
All living things kept away from the mountain . 
So he walked along the edge until he found the bridge . 
It was a single arch of gray stone , and lying flat upon the bridge was a scarlet alligator , seemingly fast asleep . 
Guph saw there was no room for him to pass the alligator on the narrow bridge , so he called out to it Good morning , friend . 
I don't wish to hurry you , but please tell me if you are coming down , or going up ? Neither , snapped the alligator , clicking its cruel jaws together . 
Are you likely to stay there long ? he asked . 
A few hundred years or so , said the alligator . 
Guph softly rubbed the end of his nose and tried to think what to do . 
Do you know whether the First and Foremost Phanfasm of Phantastico is at home or not ? he presently inquired . 
I expect he is , seeing he is always at home , replied the alligator . 
Ah who is that coming down the mountain ? asked the Nome , gazing upward . 
The alligator turned to look over its shoulder , and at once Guph ran to the bridge and leaped over the sentinel's back before it could turn back again . 
The scarlet monster made a snap at the Nome's left foot , but missed it by fully an inch . 
Ah ha ! laughed the General , who was now on the mountain path . 
I fooled you that time . 
So you did and perhaps you fooled yourself , retorted the alligator . 
At first the scene was wild enough , but gradually it grew more and more awful in appearance . 
All the rocks had the shapes of frightful beings and even the tree trunks were gnarled and twisted like serpents . 
Suddenly there appeared before the Nome a man with the head of an owl . 
His body was hairy like that of an ape , and his only clothing was a scarlet scarf twisted around his waist . 
He bore a huge club in his hand and his round owl eyes blinked fiercely upon the intruder . 
What are you doing here ? he demanded , threatening Guph with his club . 
I've come to see the First and Foremost Phanfasm of Phantastico , replied the General , who did not like the way this creature looked at him , but still was not afraid . 
Ah you shall see him ! the man said , with a sneering laugh . 
The First and Foremost shall decide upon the best way to punish you . 
He will not punish me , returned Guph , calmly , for I have come here to do him and his people a rare favor . 
Lead on , fellow , and take me directly to your master . 
The owl man raised his club with a threatening gesture . 
If you try to escape , he said , beware But here the General interrupted him . 
Spare your threats , said he , and do not be impertinent , or I will have you severely punished . 
He realized that he had put himself into a dangerous position by coming to this dreadful mountain , but he also knew that if he showed fear he was lost . 
So he adopted a bold manner as his best defense . 
The wisdom of this plan was soon evident , for the Phanfasm with the owl's head turned and led the way up the mountain . 
At the very top was a level plain upon which were heaps of rock that at first glance seemed solid . 
But on looking closer Guph discovered that these rock heaps were dwellings , for each had an opening . 
Not a person was to be seen outside the rock huts . 
The owl man led the way among the groups of dwellings to one standing in the center . 
It seemed no better and no worse than any of the others . 
Outside the entrance to this rock heap the guide gave a low wail that sounded like Lee ow ah ! Suddenly there bounded from the opening another hairy man . 
This one wore the head of a bear . 
In his hand he bore a brass hoop . 
He glared at the stranger in evident surprise . 
Why have you captured this foolish wanderer and brought him here ? he demanded , addressing the owl man . 
I did not capture him , was the answer . 
He passed the scarlet alligator and came here of his own free will and accord . 
The First and Foremost looked at the General . 
Have you tired of life , then ? he asked . 
No indeed , answered Guph . 
I am a Nome , and the Chief General of King Roquat the Red's great army of Nomes . 
I come of a long lived race , and I may say that I expect to live a long time yet . 
Sit down , you Phanfasms if you can find a seat in this wild haunt and listen to what I have to say . 
All that he saw was a barren waste of rock heaps , a hairy man with an owl's head and another with a bear's head . 
The sorcery of the Phanfasms permitted him to see no more . 
Suddenly the First and Foremost swung his brass hoop and caught Guph around the neck with it . 
The next instant , before the General could think what had happened to him , he was dragged inside the rock hut . 
Here , his eyes still blinded to realities , he perceived only a dim light , by which the hut seemed as rough and rude inside as it was outside . 
Yet he had a strange feeling that many bright eyes were fastened upon him and that he stood in a vast and extensive hall . 
The First and Foremost now laughed grimly and released his prisoner . 
If you have anything to say that is interesting , he remarked , speak out , before I strangle you . 
He tried not to pay any attention to a strange rustling sound that he heard , as of an unseen multitude drawing near to listen to his words . 
His eyes could see only the fierce bear man , and to him he addressed his speech . 
First he told of his plan to conquer the Land of Oz and plunder the country of its riches and enslave its people , who , being fairies , could not be killed . 
Then , for the first time , Guph began to feel a trifle worried . 
Who else has promised to help you ? finally asked the First and Foremost . 
The Whimsies , replied the General . 
Again the bear headed Phanfasm laughed . 
Any others ? he inquired . 
Only the Growleywogs , said Guph . 
This answer set the First and Foremost laughing anew . 
What share of the spoils am I to have ? was the next question . 
Anything you like , except King Roquat's Magic Belt , replied Guph . 
Oh , these blind and foolish Nomes ! he said . 
All were ferocious and repulsive looking to the deceived eyes of the Nome , and Guph could not repress a shudder of disgust as he looked upon them . 
In her dark hair flowers were entwined , and her face was noble and calm . 
At the same instant the entire band of Phanfasms was transformed into a pack of howling wolves , running here and there as they snarled and showed their ugly yellow fangs . 
The woman now raised her arms , even as the man bear had done , and in a twinkling the wolves became crawling lizards , while she herself changed into a huge butterfly . 
Then tell me what can you offer the Phanfasms that they have not already ? inquired the First and Foremost . 
He really did not know what to say . 
The Nome King's vaunted Magic Belt seemed a poor thing compared to the astonishing magical powers of these people . 
Gold , jewels and slaves they might secure in any quantity without especial effort . 
He felt that he was dealing with powers greatly beyond him . 
There was but one argument that might influence the Phanfasms , who were creatures of evil . 
Permit me to call your attention to the exquisite joy of making the happy unhappy , said he at last . 
Consider the pleasure of destroying innocent and harmless people . 
Ah ! you have answered me , cried the First and Foremost . 
For that reason alone we will aid you . 
Go home , and tell your bandy legged king that as soon as his tunnel is finished the Phanfasms will be with him and lead his legions to the conquest of Oz . 
The deadly desert alone has kept us from destroying Oz long ago , and your underground tunnel is a clever thought . 
Go home , and prepare for our coming ! Guph was very glad to be permitted to go with this promise . 
The owl man led him back down the mountain path and ordered the scarlet alligator to crawl away and allow the Nome to cross the bridge in safety . 
After the visitor had gone a brilliant and gorgeous city appeared upon the mountain top , clearly visible to the eyes of the gaily dressed multitude of Phanfasms that lived there . 
And the First and Foremost , beautifully arrayed , addressed the others in these words It is time we went into the world and brought sorrow and dismay to its people . 
So I think it is lucky that this messenger from the Nomes arrived among us just now , to remind us that the opportunity has come for us to make trouble . 
We will use King Roquat's tunnel to conquer the Land of Oz . 
Then we will destroy the Whimsies , the Growleywogs and the Nomes , and afterward go out to ravage and annoy and grieve the whole world . 
The multitude of evil Phanfasms eagerly applauded this plan , which they fully approved . 
I am told that the Erbs are the most powerful and merciless of all the evil spirits , and the Phanfasms of Phantastico belong to the race of Erbs . 
How they Matched the Fuddles Dorothy and her fellow travelers rode away from the Cuttenclip village and followed the indistinct path as far as the sign post . 
Here they took the main road again and proceeded pleasantly through the pretty farming country . 
When evening came they stopped at a dwelling and were joyfully welcomed and given plenty to eat and good beds for the night . 
Being made of wood , this horse never got tired nor cared to lie down . 
Dorothy was not quite sure whether he ever slept or not , but it was certain that he never did when anybody was around . 
The weather is always beautiful in Oz , and this morning the air was cool and refreshing and the sunshine brilliant and delightful . 
In about an hour they came to a place where another road branched off . 
There was a sign post here which read THIS WAY TO FUDDLECUMJIG Oh , here is where we turn , said Dorothy , observing the sign . 
What ! Are we going to Fuddlecumjig ? asked the Captain General . 
Yes Ozma thought we might enjoy the Fuddles . 
They are said to be very interesting , she replied . 
No one would suspect it from their name , said Aunt Em . 
Who are they , anyhow ? More paper things ? I think not , answered Dorothy , laughing but I can't say 'zactly , Aunt Em , what they are . 
We'll find out when we get there . 
Perhaps the Wizard knows , suggested Uncle Henry . 
No I've never been there before , said the Wizard . 
But I've often heard of Fuddlecumjig and the Fuddles , who are said to be the most peculiar people in all the Land of Oz . 
In what way ? asked the Shaggy Man . 
I don't know , I'm sure , said the Wizard . 
Just then , as they rode along the pretty green lane toward Fuddlecumjig , they espied a kangaroo sitting by the roadside . 
It's probably her husband , and he's dead . 
No , no , no ! sobbed the kangaroo . 
I've lost my mi mi Oh , boo , boo hoo ! I know , said the Shaggy Man she's lost her mirror . 
No it's my mi mi mi Boo hoo ! My mi Oh , Boo hoo ! and the kangaroo cried harder than ever . 
It must be her mince pie , suggested Aunt Em . 
Or her milk toast , proposed Uncle Henry . 
I've lost my mi mi mittens ! said the kangaroo , getting it out at last . 
Oh ! cried the Yellow Hen , with a cackle of relief . 
Why didn't you say so before ? Boo hoo ! I I couldn't , answered the kangaroo . 
But , see here , said Dorothy , you don't need mittens in this warm weather . 
Yes , indeed I do , replied the animal , stopping her sobs and removing her paws from her face to look at the little girl reproachfully . 
My hands will get all sunburned and tanned without my mittens , and I've worn them so long that I'll probably catch cold without them . 
I never heard of any kangaroo wearing mittens . 
Didn't you ? asked the animal , as if surprised . 
Never ! repeated the girl . 
And you'll probably make yourself sick if you don't stop crying . 
Where do you live ? About two miles beyond Fuddlecumjig , was the answer . 
Grandmother Gnit made me the mittens , and she's one of the Fuddles . 
Well , you'd better go home now , and perhaps the old lady will make you another pair , suggested Dorothy . 
We're on our way to Fuddlecumjig , and you may hop along beside us . 
So they rode on , and the kangaroo hopped beside the red wagon and seemed quickly to have forgotten her loss . 
By and by the Wizard said to the animal Are the Fuddles nice people ? Oh , very nice , answered the kangaroo that is , when they're properly put together . 
But they get dreadfully scattered and mixed up , at times , and then you can't do anything with them . 
What do you mean by their getting scattered ? inquired Dorothy . 
Why , they're made in a good many small pieces , explained the kangaroo and whenever any stranger comes near them they have a habit of falling apart and scattering themselves around . 
That's when they get so dreadfully mixed , and it's a hard puzzle to put them together again . 
Who usually puts them together ? asked Omby Amby . 
Any one who is able to match the pieces . 
I sometimes put Grandmother Gnit together myself , because I know her so well I can tell every piece that belongs to her . 
Then , when she's all matched , she knits for me , and that's how she made my mittens . 
But it took a good many days hard knitting , and I had to put Grandmother together a good many times , because every time I came near , she'd scatter herself . 
I should think she would get used to your coming , and not be afraid , said Dorothy . 
It isn't that , replied the kangaroo . 
They're not a bit afraid , when they're put together , and usually they're very jolly and pleasant . 
It's just a habit they have , to scatter themselves , and if they didn't do it they wouldn't be Fuddles . 
The travelers thought upon this quite seriously for a time , while the Sawhorse continued to carry them rapidly forward . 
Then Aunt Em remarked I don't see much use our visitin' these Fuddles . 
If we find them scattered , all we can do is to sweep 'em up , and then go about our business . 
Oh , I b'lieve we'd better go on , replied Dorothy . 
I'm getting hungry , and we must try to get some luncheon at Fuddlecumjig . 
Perhaps the food won't be scattered as badly as the people . 
There's the town now just ahead of us ! They looked ahead and saw a group of very pretty houses standing in a green field a little apart from the main road . 
Some Munchkins came here a few days ago and matched a lot of people together , said the kangaroo . 
I think they are together yet , and if you go softly , without making any noise , perhaps they won't scatter . 
Let's try it , suggested the Wizard . 
So silently did they move that soon they saw through the windows of the houses , people moving around , while others were passing to and fro in the yards between the buildings . 
They seemed much like other people from a distance , and apparently they did not notice the little party so quietly approaching . 
They had almost reached the nearest house when Toto saw a large beetle crossing the path and barked loudly at it . 
Instantly a wild clatter was heard from the houses and yards . 
Dorothy thought it sounded like a sudden hailstorm , and the visitors , knowing that caution was no longer necessary , hurried forward to see what had happened . 
After the clatter an intense stillness reigned in the town . 
The strangers entered the first house they came to , which was also the largest , and found the floor strewn with pieces of the people who lived there . 
They looked much like fragments of wood neatly painted , and were of all sorts of curious and fantastic shapes , no two pieces being in any way alike . 
They picked up some of these pieces and looked at them carefully . 
On one which Dorothy held was an eye , which looked at her pleasantly but with an interested expression , as if it wondered what she was going to do with it . 
Quite near by she discovered and picked up a nose , and by matching the two pieces together found that they were part of a face . 
If I could find the mouth , she said , this Fuddle might be able to talk , and tell us what to do next . 
Then let us find it , replied the Wizard , and so all got down on their hands and knees and began examining the scattered pieces . 
I've found it ! cried the Shaggy Man , and ran to Dorothy with a queer shaped piece that had a mouth on it . 
But when they tried to fit it to the eye and nose they found the parts wouldn't match together . 
That mouth belongs to some other person , said Dorothy . 
You see we need a curve here and a point there , to make it fit the face . 
Well , it must be here some place , declared the Wizard so if we search long enough we shall find it . 
Dorothy fitted an ear on next , and the ear had a little patch of red hair above it . 
She had also found the other eye and the ear by the time Omby Amby in a far corner discovered the mouth . 
When the face was thus completed , all the parts joined together with a nicety that was astonishing . 
Why , it's like a picture puzzle ! exclaimed the little girl . 
Let's find the rest of him , and get him all together . 
What's the rest of him like ? asked the Wizard . 
Here are some pieces of blue legs and green arms , but I don't know whether they are his or not . 
Look for a white shirt and a white apron , said the head which had been put together , speaking in a rather faint voice . 
Oh , thank you , said Dorothy . 
It's lucky we started you first , for I'm hungry , and you can be cooking something for us to eat while we match the other folks together . 
When he was finished he made them a low bow and said I will go at once to the kitchen to prepare your dinner . 
You will find it something of a job to get all the Fuddles together , so I advise you to begin on the Lord High Chigglewitz , whose first name is Larry . 
He's a bald headed fat man and is dressed in a blue coat with brass buttons , a pink vest and drab breeches . 
A piece of his left knee is missing , having been lost years ago when he scattered himself too carelessly . 
That makes him limp a little , but he gets along very well with half a knee . 
As he is the chief personage in this town of Fuddlecumjig , he will be able to welcome you and assist you with the others . 
So it will be best to work on him while I'm getting your dinner . 
We will , said the Wizard and thank you very much , Cook , for the suggestion . 
Aunt Em was the first to discover a piece of the Lord High Chigglewitz . 
Here , Henry , get busy and look for Larry's bald head . 
I've got his pink vest , all right . 
They worked with eager interest , and Billina proved a great help to them . 
The Yellow Hen had sharp eyes and could put her head close to the various pieces that lay scattered around . 
She would examine the Lord High Chigglewitz and see which piece of him was next needed , and then hunt around until she found it . 
So before an hour had passed old Larry was standing complete before them . 
I congratulate you , my friends , he said , speaking in a cheerful voice . 
You are certainly the cleverest people who ever visited us . 
I was never matched together so quickly in my life . 
I'm considered a great puzzle , usually . 
Well , said Dorothy , there used to be a picture puzzle craze in Kansas , and so I've had some 'sperience matching puzzles . 
But the pictures were flat , while you are round , and that makes you harder to figure out . 
Thank you , my dear , replied old Larry , greatly pleased . 
Were I not a really good puzzle , there would be no object in my scattering myself . 
Why do you do it ? asked Aunt Em , severely . 
Mine is to scatter myself . 
What your own peculiarity is I will not venture to say but I shall never find fault with you , whatever you do . 
Now you've got your diploma , Em , said Uncle Henry , with a laugh , and I'm glad of it . 
This is a queer country , and we may as well take people as we find them . 
If we did , we'd leave these folks scattered , she returned , and this retort made everybody laugh good naturedly . 
Just then Omby Amby found a hand with a knitting needle in it , and they decided to put Grandmother Gnit together . 
She proved an easier puzzle than old Larry , and when she was completed they found her a pleasant old lady who welcomed them cordially . 
Dorothy told her how the kangaroo had lost her mittens , and Grandmother Gnit promised to set to work at once and make the poor animal another pair . 
Then the cook came to call them to dinner , and they found an inviting meal prepared for them . 
The Lord High Chigglewitz sat at the head of the table and Grandmother Gnit at the foot , and the guests had a merry time and thoroughly enjoyed themselves . 
But I don't like to leave all these poor people scattered , said Dorothy , undecided what to do . 
Oh , don't mind us , my dear , returned old Larry . 
But I hope you will visit us again , and if you do you will always be welcome , I assure you . 
Don't you ever match each other ? she inquired . 
Never for we are no puzzles to ourselves , and so there wouldn't be any fun in it . 
They now said goodbye to the queer Fuddles and got into their wagon to continue their journey . 
Those are certainly strange people , remarked Aunt Em , thoughtfully , as they drove away from Fuddlecumjig , but I really can't see what use they are , at all . 
Why , they amused us all for several hours , replied the Wizard . 
That is being of use to us , I'm sure . 
I think they're more fun than playing solitaire or mumbletypeg , declared Uncle Henry , soberly . 
For my part , I'm glad we visited the Fuddles . 
They will fight for us with all their strength and cunning . 
Good ! exclaimed the King . 
I agree to that , said the King . 
This is good news , Guph , and it makes me feel more certain of the conquest of Oz . 
But I have other news for you , announced the General . 
Good or bad ? Good , your Majesty . 
Then I will hear it , said the King , with interest . 
The Growleywogs will join us . 
No ! cried the astonished King . 
Yes , indeed , said the General . 
But what reward do they demand ? inquired the King , suspiciously , for he knew how greedy the Growleywogs were . 
They are to take a few of the Oz people for their slaves , replied Guph . 
He did not think it necessary to tell Roquat that the Growleywogs demanded twenty thousand slaves . 
It would be time enough for that when Oz was conquered . 
A very reasonable request , I'm sure , remarked the King . 
I must congratulate you , Guph , upon the wonderful success of your journey . 
But that is not all , said the General , proudly . 
Speak out , sir ! he commanded . 
I have seen the First and Foremost Phanfasm of the Mountain of Phantastico , and he will bring his people to assist us . 
What ! cried the King . 
The Phanfasms ! You don't mean it , Guph ! It is true , declared the General , proudly . 
The King became thoughtful , and his brows wrinkled . 
I'm afraid , Guph , he said rather anxiously , that the First and Foremost may prove as dangerous to us as to the Oz people . 
The First and Foremost is a particular friend of mine , and will do us no harm . 
Why , when I was there , he even invited me into his house . 
The General neglected to tell the King how he had been jerked into the hut of the First and Foremost by means of the brass hoop . 
So Roquat the Red looked at his General admiringly and said You are a wonderful Nome , Guph . 
I'm sorry I did not make you my General before . 
But what reward did the First and Foremost demand ? Nothing at all , answered Guph . 
Even the Magic Belt itself could not add to his powers of sorcery . 
All the Phanfasms wish is to destroy the Oz people , who are good and happy . 
This pleasure will amply repay them for assisting us . 
When will they come ? asked Roquat , half fearfully . 
When the tunnel is completed , said the General . 
We are nearly halfway under the desert now , announced the King and that is fast work , because the tunnel has to be drilled through solid rock . 
But after we have passed the desert it will not take us long to extend the tunnel to the walls of the Emerald City . 
Well , whenever you are ready , we shall be joined by the Whimsies , the Growleywogs and the Phanfasms , said Guph so the conquest of Oz is assured without a doubt . 
Again , the King seemed thoughtful . 
I'm almost sorry we did not undertake the conquest alone , said he . 
All of these allies are dangerous people , and they may demand more than you have promised them . 
It might have been better to have conquered Oz without any outside assistance . 
We could not do it , said the General , positively . 
Why not , Guph ? You know very well . 
You have had one experience with the Oz people , and they defeated you . 
That was because they rolled eggs at us , replied the King , with a shudder . 
My Nomes cannot stand eggs , any more than I can myself . 
They are poison to all who live underground . 
That is true enough , agreed Guph . 
But we might have taken the Oz people by surprise , and conquered them before they had a chance to get any eggs . 
Our former defeat was due to the fact that the girl Dorothy had a Yellow Hen with her . 
On the contrary , said Guph , there are now hundreds of chickens in Oz , and they lay heaps of those dangerous eggs . 
I met a goshawk on my way home , and the bird informed me that he had lately been to Oz to capture and devour some of the young chickens . 
But they are protected by magic , so the hawk did not get a single one of them . 
That is a very bad report , said the King , nervously . 
My Nomes are willing to fight , but they simply can't face hen's eggs and I don't blame them . 
They won't need to face them , replied Guph . 
I'm afraid of eggs myself , and don't propose to take any chances of being poisoned by them . 
My plan is to send the Whimsies through the tunnel first , and then the Growleywogs and the Phanfasms . 
By the time we Nomes get there the eggs will all be used up , and we may then pursue and capture the inhabitants at our leisure . 
Perhaps you are right , returned the King , with a dismal sigh . 
But I want it distinctly understood that I claim Ozma and Dorothy as my own prisoners . 
They are rather nice girls , and I do not intend to let any of those dreadful creatures hurt them , or make them their slaves . 
When I have captured them I will bring them here and transform them into china ornaments to stand on my mantle . 
Very well , your Majesty . 
Do what you will with the girls for all I care . 
It will be ready in three days , promised the King , and hurried away to inspect the work and see that the Nomes kept busy . 
How the Wizard Practiced Sorcery Where next ? asked the Wizard when they had left the town of Fuddlecumjig and the Sawhorse had started back along the road . 
Why , Ozma laid out this trip , replied Dorothy , and she 'vised us to see the Rigmaroles next , and then visit the Tin Woodman . 
That sounds good , said the Wizard . 
But what road do we take to get to the Rigmaroles ? I don't know , 'zactly , returned the little girl but it must be somewhere just southwest from here . 
Then why need we go way back to the crossroads ? asked the Shaggy Man . 
We might save a lot of time by branching off here . 
There isn't any path , asserted Uncle Henry . 
Then we'd better go back to the signposts , and make sure of our way , decided Dorothy . 
But after they had gone a short distance farther the Sawhorse , who had overheard their conversation , stopped and said Here is a path . 
Sure enough , a dim path seemed to branch off from the road they were on , and it led across pretty green meadows and past leafy groves , straight toward the southwest . 
That looks like a good path , said Omby Amby . 
Why not try it ? All right , answered Dorothy . 
I'm anxious to see what the Rigmaroles are like , and this path ought to take us there the quickest way . 
As first they passed a few retired farm houses , but soon these scattered dwellings were left behind and only the meadows and the trees were before them . 
But they rode along in cheerful contentment , and Aunt Em got into an argument with Billina about the proper way to raise chickens . 
I do not care to contradict you , said the Yellow Hen , with dignity , but I have an idea I know more about chickens than human beings do . 
Pshaw ! replied Aunt Em . 
Broilers ! exclaimed Billina , in horror . 
Broil my chickens ! Why , that's what they're for , ain't it ? asked Aunt Em , astonished . 
No , Aunt , not in Oz , said Dorothy . 
People do not eat chickens here . 
You see , Billina was the first hen that was ever seen in this country , and I brought her here myself . 
Everybody liked her an' respected her , so the Oz people wouldn't any more eat her chickens than they would eat Billina . 
Well , I declare , gasped Aunt Em . 
How about the eggs ? Oh , if we have more eggs than we want to hatch , we allow people to eat them , said Billina . 
Indeed , I am very glad the Oz folks like our eggs , for otherwise they would spoil . 
This certainly is a queer country , sighed Aunt Em . 
Excuse me , called the Sawhorse , the path has ended and I'd like to know which way to go . 
They looked around and sure enough there was no path to be seen . 
Well , said Dorothy , we're going southwest , and it seems just as easy to follow that direction without a path as with one . 
Certainly , answered the Sawhorse . 
It is not hard to draw the wagon over the meadow . 
I only want to know where to go . 
There's a forest over there across the prairie , said the Wizard , and it lies in the direction we are going . 
Make straight for the forest , Sawhorse , and you're bound to go right . 
So the wooden animal trotted on again and the meadow grass was so soft under the wheels that it made easy riding . 
But Dorothy was a little uneasy at losing the path , because now there was nothing to guide them . 
Perhaps we're lost , suggested Aunt Em , after they had proceeded quite a way in silence . 
Never mind , said the Shaggy Man I've been lost many a time and so has Dorothy and we've always been found again . 
But we may get hungry , remarked Omby Amby . 
That is the worst of getting lost in a place where there are no houses near . 
We had a good dinner at the Fuddle town , said Uncle Henry , and that will keep us from starving to death for a long time . 
No one ever starved to death in Oz , declared Dorothy , positively but people may get pretty hungry sometimes . 
The Wizard said nothing , and he did not seem especially anxious . 
The Sawhorse was trotting along briskly , yet the forest seemed farther away than they had thought when they first saw it . 
This will be a good place to camp , said the Wizard , as the Sawhorse stopped for further instructions . 
Camp ! they all echoed . 
Certainly , asserted the Wizard . 
It will be dark before very long and we cannot travel through this forest at night . 
So let us make a camp here , and have some supper , and sleep until daylight comes again . 
And chew grass for our supper , added the Shaggy Man , laughing . 
But Dorothy seemed to have no doubts and was quite cheerful It's lucky we have the wonderful Wizard with us , she said because he can do 'most anything he wants to . 
Oh , yes I forgot we had a Wizard , said Uncle Henry , looking at the little man curiously . 
I didn't , chirped Billina , contentedly . 
The Wizard smiled and climbed out of the wagon , and all the others followed him . 
In order to camp , said he , the first thing we need is tents . 
Will some one please lend me a handkerchief ? The Shaggy Man offered him one , and Aunt Em another . 
He took them both and laid them carefully upon the grass near to the edge of the forest . 
This , said the Wizard , pointing to the first tent , is for the accommodation of the ladies . 
Dorothy , you and your Aunt may step inside and take off your things . 
Every one ran to look inside the tent , and they saw two pretty white beds , all ready for Dorothy and Aunt Em , and a silver roost for Billina . 
Rugs were spread upon the grassy floor and some camp chairs and a table completed the furniture . 
Oh , Mr. Wizard ! How did you manage to do it ? asked Dorothy . 
It's a trick Glinda the Sorceress taught me , and it is much better magic than I used to practice in Omaha , or when I first came to Oz , he answered . 
So we have been much together and I am learning so fast that I expect to be able to accomplish some really wonderful things in time . 
You've done it now ! declared Dorothy . 
These tents are just wonderful ! But come and see the men's tent , said the Wizard . 
So they went to the second tent , which had shaggy edges because it has been made from the Shaggy Man's handkerchief , and found that completely furnished also . 
It contained four neat beds for Uncle Henry , Omby Amby , the Shaggy Man and the Wizard . 
Also there was a soft rug for Toto to lie upon . 
The third tent , explained the Wizard , is our dining room and kitchen . 
They visited that next , and found a table and dishes in the dining tent , with plenty of those things necessary to use in cooking . 
The Wizard carried out a big kettle and set it swinging on a crossbar before the tent . 
While he was doing this Omby Amby and the Shaggy Man brought a supply of twigs from the forest and then they built a fire underneath the kettle . 
Now , Dorothy , said the Wizard , smiling , I expect you to cook our supper . 
But there is nothing in the kettle , she cried . 
Are you sure ? inquired the Wizard . 
I didn't see anything put in , and I'm almost sure it was empty when you brought it out , she replied . 
Nevertheless , said the little man , winking slyly at Uncle Henry , you will do well to watch our supper , my dear , and see that it doesn't boil over . 
I saw the kettle myself , and when he hung it over the fire there wasn't a thing in it but air . 
Don't worry , remarked Billina , confidently , as she nestled in the grass before the fire . 
You'll find something in the kettle when it's taken off and it won't be poor , innocent chickens , either . 
Your hen has very bad manners , Dorothy , said Aunt Em , looking somewhat disdainfully at Billina . 
It seems too bad she ever learned how to talk . 
There might have been another unpleasant quarrel between Aunt Em and Billina had not the men returned just then with their pails filled with clear , sparkling water . 
The Wizard told Dorothy that she was a good cook and he believed their supper was ready . 
So Uncle Henry lifted the kettle from the fire and poured its contents into a big platter which the Wizard held for him . 
The platter was fairly heaped with a fine stew , smoking hot , with many kinds of vegetables and dumplings and a rich , delicious gravy . 
The Wizard triumphantly placed the platter upon the table in the dining tent and then they all sat down in camp chairs to the feast . 
No one ventured to ask a question as to how these things came there . 
They contented themselves by eating heartily the good things provided , and Toto and Billina had their full share , you may be sure . 
Then she added , in a louder voice Who's going to do the dishes ? No one , madam , answered the Wizard . 
The dishes have 'done' themselves . 
La sakes ! ejaculated the good lady , holding up her hands in amazement . 
Pretty soon a zebra was seen coming out of the forest , and he trotted straight up to them and said politely Good evening , people . 
The zebra was a sleek little animal and had a slender head , a stubby mane and a paint brush tail very like a donkey's . 
His neatly shaped white body was covered with regular bars of dark brown , and his hoofs were delicate as those of a deer . 
Good evening , friend Zebra , said Omby Amby , in reply to the creature's greeting . 
Can we do anything for you ? Yes , answered the zebra . 
I should like you to settle a dispute that has long been a bother to me , as to whether there is more water or land in the world . 
Who are you disputing with ? asked the Wizard . 
With a soft shell crab , said the zebra . 
He lives in a pool where I go to drink every day , and he is a very impertinent crab , I assure you . 
I have told him many times that the land is much greater in extent than the water , but he will not be convinced . 
So , seeing your camp , I decided to ask you to settle the dispute for once and all , that I may not be further annoyed by this ignorant crab . 
When they had listened to this explanation Dorothy inquired Where is the soft shell crab ? Not far away , replied the zebra . 
If you will agree to judge between us I will run and get him . 
Run along , then , said the little girl . 
So the animal pranced into the forest and soon came trotting back to them . 
When he drew near they found a soft shell crab clinging fast to the stiff hair of the zebra's head , where it held on by one claw . 
For they have been travelers all over the world , and know every part of it . 
There is more of the world than Oz , declared the crab , in a stubborn voice . 
That is true , said Dorothy but I used to live in Kansas , in the United States , and I've been to California and to Australia and so has Uncle Henry . 
For my part , added the Shaggy Man , I've been to Mexico and Boston and many other foreign countries . 
And I , said the Wizard , have been to Europe and Ireland . 
So you see , continued the zebra , addressing the crab , here are people of real consequence , who know what they are talking about . 
Then they know there's more water in the world than there is land , asserted the crab , in a shrill , petulant voice . 
They know you are wrong to make such an absurd statement , and they will probably think you are a lobster instead of a crab , retorted the animal . 
Stop pinching ! cried the zebra . 
You promised not to pinch if I would carry you here ! And you promised to treat me respectfully , said the crab , letting go the ear . 
Well , haven't I ? demanded the zebra . 
No you called me a lobster , said the crab . 
Ladies and gentlemen , continued the zebra , please pardon my poor friend , because he is ignorant and stupid , and does not understand . 
Also the pinch of his claw is very annoying . 
But we cannot tell him that , said Dorothy , gravely , because it would not be true . 
What ! exclaimed the zebra , in astonishment do I hear you aright ? The soft shell crab is correct , declared the Wizard . 
There is considerably more water than there is land in the world . 
Impossible ! protested the zebra . 
Why , I can run for days upon the land , and find but little water . 
Did you ever see an ocean ? asked Dorothy . 
Never , admitted the zebra . 
There is no such thing as an ocean in the Land of Oz . 
And the joggerfys will tell you that all the oceans put together are bigger than all the land put together . 
At this the crab began laughing in queer chuckles that reminded Dorothy of the way Billina sometimes cackled . 
NOW will you give up , Mr. Zebra ? it cried , jeeringly now will you give up ? The zebra seemed much humbled . 
Of course I cannot read geographys , he said . 
You could take one of the Wizard's School Pills , suggested Billina , and that would make you learned and wise without studying . 
The crab began laughing again , which so provoked the zebra that he tried to shake the little creature off . 
This resulted in more ear pinching , and finally Dorothy told them that if they could not behave they must go back to the forest . 
I'm sorry I asked you to decide this question , said the zebra , crossly . 
So I must find another drinking place . 
Do ! Do , you ignoramus ! shouted the crab , as loudly as his little voice would carry . 
And as it was now getting dark the travelers said good night to one another and went to bed . 
Outside she noticed Billina busily pecking around to secure bugs or other food for breakfast , but none of the men in the other tent seemed awake . 
So the little girl decided to take a walk in the woods and try to discover some path or road that they might follow when they again started upon their journey . 
She had reached the edge of the forest when the Yellow Hen came fluttering along and asked where she was going . 
Just to take a walk , Billina and maybe I'll find some path , said Dorothy . 
Then I'll go along , decided Billina , and scarcely had she spoken when Toto ran up and joined them . 
Toto and the Yellow Hen had become quite friendly by this time , although at first they did not get along well together . 
Billina had been rather suspicious of dogs , and Toto had had an idea that it was every dog's duty to chase a hen on sight . 
But Dorothy had talked to them and scolded them for not being agreeable to one another until they grew better acquainted and became friends . 
I won't say they loved each other dearly , but at least they had stopped quarreling and now managed to get on together very well . 
The day was growing lighter every minute and driving the black shadows out of the forest so Dorothy found it very pleasant walking under the trees . 
She went some distance in one direction , but not finding a path , presently turned in a different direction . 
I think we'd better go back , suggested the Yellow Hen , after a time . 
The people will all be up by this time and breakfast will be ready . 
Very well , agreed Dorothy . 
Let's see the camp must be over this way . 
She had probably made a mistake about that , for after they had gone far enough to have reached the camp they still found themselves in the thick of the woods . 
I'd no idea you would get lost , Dorothy . 
It's the thing we don't expect , Billina , that usually happens , observed the girl , thoughtfully . 
But it's no use standing here . 
Let's go in that direction , pointing a finger at random . 
It may be we'll get out of the forest over there . 
So on they went again , but this way the trees were closer together , and the vines were so tangled that often they tripped Dorothy up . 
Suddenly a voice cried sharply Halt ! At first , Dorothy could see nothing , although she looked around very carefully . 
But Billina exclaimed Well , I declare ! What is it ? asked the little girl for Toto began barking at something , and following his gaze she discovered what it was . 
A row of spoons had surrounded the three , and these spoons stood straight up on their handles and carried swords and muskets . 
Their faces were outlined in the polished bowls and they looked very stern and severe . 
Dorothy laughed at the queer things . 
Who are you ? she asked . 
We're the Spoon Brigade , said one . 
In the service of his Majesty King Kleaver , said another . 
And you are our prisoners , said a third . 
Dorothy sat down on an old stump and looked at them , her eyes twinkling with amusement . 
What would happen , she inquired , if I should set my dog on your Brigade ? He would die , replied one of the spoons , sharply . 
One shot from our deadly muskets would kill him , big as he is . 
Don't risk it , Dorothy , advised the Yellow Hen . 
Remember this is a fairy country , yet none of us three happens to be a fairy . 
Dorothy grew sober at this . 
P'raps you're right , Billina , she answered . 
But how funny it is , to be captured by a lot of spoons ! I do not see anything very funny about it , declared a spoon . 
We're the regular military brigade of the kingdom . 
What kingdom ? she asked . 
I never heard of it before , asserted Dorothy . 
Then she added thoughtfully , I don't believe Ozma ever heard of Utensia , either . 
Tell me , are you not subjects of Ozma of Oz ? We have never heard of her , retorted a spoon . 
We are subjects of King Kleaver , and obey only his orders , which are to bring all prisoners to him as soon as they are captured . 
So step lively , my girl , and march with us , or we may be tempted to cut off a few of your toes with our swords . 
This threat made Dorothy laugh again . 
So Toto was careful , and the Spoon Brigade moved along with astonishing swiftness , while Dorothy really had to walk fast to keep up with it . 
By and by they left the woods and entered a big clearing , in which was the Kingdom of Utensia . 
Stand back ! cried the Captain , sternly , and he led his captives through the curious throng until they came before a big range that stood in the center of the clearing . 
Beside this range was a butcher block upon which lay a great cleaver with a keen edge . 
It rested upon the flat of its back , its legs were crossed and it was smoking a long pipe . 
Wake up , your Majesty , said the Captain . 
Hearing this , King Kleaver sat up and looked at Dorothy sharply . 
Gristle and fat ! he cried . 
Where did this girl come from ? I found her in the forest and brought her here a prisoner , replied the Captain . 
Why did you do that ? inquired the King , puffing his pipe lazily . 
To create some excitement , the Captain answered . 
It is so quiet here that we are all getting rusty for want of amusement . 
For my part , I prefer to see stirring times . 
Naturally , returned the cleaver , with a nod . 
I have always said , Captain , without a bit of irony , that you are a sterling officer and a solid citizen , bowled and polished to a degree . 
But what do you expect me to do with these prisoners ? That is for you to decide , declared the Captain . 
To be sure to be sure , muttered the cleaver , musingly . 
As you say , we have had dull times since the steel and grindstone eloped and left us . 
Command my Counselors and the Royal Courtiers to attend me , as well as the High Priest and the Judge . 
We'll then decide what can be done . 
Dorothy at once arose , and the kettle turned right side up and looked at her reproachfully . 
I'm a friend of the King , so no one dares sit on me , said he . 
I'd prefer a chair , anyway , she replied . 
Sit on that hearth , commanded the King . 
So Dorothy sat on the hearth shelf of the big range , and the subjects of Utensia began to gather around in a large and inquisitive throng . 
Toto lay at Dorothy's feet and Billina flew upon the range , which had no fire in it , and perched there as comfortably as she could . 
So I ask your advice how to act in this matter , and what fate I should mete out to these captives . 
Judge Sifter , stand on my right . 
It is your business to sift this affair to the bottom . 
High Priest Colender , stand on my left and see that no one testifies falsely in this matter . 
As these two officials took their places , Dorothy asked Why is the colander the High Priest ? He's the holiest thing we have in the kingdom , replied King Kleaver . 
Except me , said a sieve . 
I'm the whole thing when it comes to holes . 
What we need , remarked the King , rebukingly , is a wireless sieve . 
I must speak to Marconi about it . 
These old fashioned sieves talk too much . 
I demand that they be killed several times , until they are dead ! shouted a pepperbox , hopping around very excitedly . 
Compose yourself , Mr. Paprica , advised the King . 
Your remarks are piquant and highly seasoned , but you need a scattering of commonsense . 
It is only necessary to kill a person once to make him dead but I do not see that it is necessary to kill this little girl at all . 
I don't , either , said Dorothy . 
Pardon me , but you are not expected to advise me in this matter , replied King Kleaver . 
Why not ? asked Dorothy . 
You might be prejudiced in your own favor , and so mislead us , he said . 
Now then , good subjects , who speaks next ? I'd like to smooth this thing over , in some way , said a flatiron , earnestly . 
We are supposed to be useful to mankind , you know . 
But the girl isn't mankind ! She's womankind ! yelled a corkscrew . 
What do you know about it ? inquired the King . 
I'm a lawyer , said the corkscrew , proudly . 
I am accustomed to appear at the bar . 
But you're crooked , retorted the King , and that debars you . 
You may be a corking good lawyer , Mr. Popp , but I must ask you to withdraw your remarks . 
Very well , said the corkscrew , sadly I see I haven't any pull at this court . 
Permit me , continued the flatiron , to press my suit , your Majesty . 
At this a stately carvingknife stepped forward and bowed . 
The Captain was wrong to bring this girl here , and she was wrong to come , he said . 
But now that the foolish deed is done let us all prove our mettle and have a slashing good time . 
That's it ! that's it ! screamed a fat choppingknife . 
Gentlemen , gentlemen ! he said , your remarks are somewhat cutting and rather disjointed , as might be expected from such acute intellects . 
But you give me no reasons for your demands . 
See here , Kleaver you make me tired , said a saucepan , strutting before the King very impudently . 
You're about the worst King that ever reigned in Utensia , and that's saying a good deal . 
Why don't you run things yourself , instead of asking everybody's advice , like the big , clumsy idiot you are ? The King sighed . 
I wish there wasn't a saucepan in my kingdom , he said . 
You fellows are always stewing , over something , and every once in a while you slop over and make a mess of it . 
Go hang yourself , sir by the handle and don't let me hear from you again . 
Dorothy was much shocked by the dreadful language the utensils employed , and she thought that they must have had very little proper training . 
So she said , addressing the King , who seemed very unfit to rule his turbulent subjects I wish you'd decide my fate right away . 
I can't stay here all day , trying to find out what you're going to do with me . 
This thing is becoming a regular broil , and it's time I took part in it , observed a big gridiron , coming forward . 
I'm sorry to see , Sir Jabber , remarked the King to the can opener , that you have such a prying disposition . 
As a matter of fact , all the things you mention are none of our business . 
Having said this the King relighted his pipe , which had gone out . 
Tell me , please , what IS our business ? inquired a potato masher , winking at Dorothy somewhat impertinently . 
I'm fond of little girls , myself , and it seems to me she has as much right to wander in the forest as we have . 
Who accuses the little girl , anyway ? inquired a rolling pin . 
What has she done ? I don't know , said the King . 
What has she done , Captain Dipp ? That's the trouble , your Majesty . 
She hasn't done anything , replied the Captain . 
What do you want me to do ? asked Dorothy . 
This question seemed to puzzle them all . 
Finally , a chafingdish , exclaimed irritably If no one can throw any light on this subject you must excuse me if I go out . 
At this , a big kitchen fork pricked up its ears and said in a tiny voice Let's hear from Judge Sifter . 
That's proper , returned the King . 
So Judge Sifter turned around slowly several times and then said We have nothing against the girl except the stove hearth upon which she sits . 
Therefore I order her instantly discharged . 
Why , I never was discharged in my life , and I don't intend to be . 
If it's all the same to you , I'll resign . 
It's all the same , declared the King . 
You are free you and your companions and may go wherever you like . 
Thank you , said the little girl . 
But haven't you anything to eat in your kingdom ? I'm hungry . 
Go into the woods and pick blackberries , advised the King , lying down upon his back again and preparing to go to sleep . 
There isn't a morsel to eat in all Utensia , that I know of . 
So Dorothy jumped up and said Come on , Toto and Billina . 
If we can't find the camp , we may find some blackberries . 
The utensils drew back and allowed them to pass without protest , although Captain Dipp marched the Spoon Brigade in close order after them until they had reached the edge of the clearing . 
There the spoons halted but Dorothy and her companions entered the forest again and began searching diligently for a way back to the camp , that they might rejoin their party . 
She tried to keep in one direction and not circle around , but she was not at all sure that the direction she had chosen would lead her to the camp . 
By and by , to her great joy , she came upon a path . 
I'm not sure about the civil'zation , dear , replied the little girl but it looks as if we might get SOMEWHERE , and that's a big relief , anyhow . 
Which path shall we take ? inquired the Yellow Hen . 
Dorothy stared at the signs thoughtfully . 
Bunbury sounds like something to eat , she said . 
It's all the same to me , replied Billina . 
She had picked up enough bugs and insects from the moss as she went along to satisfy her own hunger , but the hen knew Dorothy could not eat bugs nor could Toto . 
There were walks of bread crusts leading from house to house and forming streets , and the place seemed to have many inhabitants . 
When Dorothy , followed by Billina and Toto , entered the place , they found people walking the streets or assembled in groups talking together , or sitting upon the porches and balconies . 
And what funny people they were ! Men , women and children were all made of buns and bread . 
Some were thin and others fat some were white , some light brown and some very dark of complexion . 
A few of the buns , which seemed to form the more important class of the people , were neatly frosted . 
Some had raisins for eyes and currant buttons on their clothes others had eyes of cloves and legs of stick cinnamon , and many wore hats and bonnets frosted pink and green . 
There was something of a commotion in Bunbury when the strangers suddenly appeared among them . 
Women caught up their children and hurried into their houses , shutting the cracker doors carefully behind them . 
Some men ran so hastily that they tumbled over one another , while others , more brave , assembled in a group and faced the intruders defiantly . 
Dorothy at once realized that she must act with caution in order not to frighten these shy people , who were evidently unused to the presence of strangers . 
There was a delightful fragrant odor of fresh bread in the town , and this made the little girl more hungry than ever . 
She told Toto and Billina to stay back while she slowly advanced toward the group that stood silently awaiting her . 
You must 'scuse me for coming unexpected , she said , softly , but I really didn't know I was coming here until I arrived . 
I was lost in the woods , you know , and I'm as hungry as anything . 
Hungry ! they murmured , in a horrified chorus . 
Yes I haven't had anything to eat since last night's supper , she exclaimed . 
Everything in Bunbury is eatable to ravenous human creatures like you . 
Dorothy looked at him longingly . 
You're bread , aren't you ? she asked . 
The butter is inside me , so it won't melt and run . 
I do the running myself . 
At this joke all the others burst into a chorus of laughter , and Dorothy thought they couldn't be much afraid if they could laugh like that . 
Couldn't I eat something besides people ? she asked . 
Couldn't I eat just one house , or a side walk or something ? I wouldn't mind much what it was , you know . 
This is not a public bakery , child , replied the man , sternly . 
I know Mr. Mr. My name is C. Bunn , Esquire , said the man . 
'C' stands for Cinnamon , and this place is called after my family , which is the most aristocratic in the town . 
Oh , I don't know about that , objected another of the queer people . 
The Grahams and the Browns and Whites are all excellent families , and there is none better of their kind . 
I'm a Boston Brown , myself . 
I admit you are all desirable citizens , said Mr. Bunn rather stiffly but the fact remains that our town is called Bunbury . 
'Scuse me , interrupted Dorothy but I'm getting hungrier every minute . 
Now , if you're polite and kind , as I'm sure you ought to be , you'll let me eat SOMETHING . 
There's so much to eat here that you will never miss it . 
So do I , Pop , replied a Roll who stood near . 
What , then , do you suggest , Mr. Over ? inquired Mr. Bunn . 
Why , I'll let her eat my back fence , if she wants to . 
It's made of waffles , and they're very crisp and nice . 
She may also eat my wheelbarrow , added a pleasant looking Muffin . 
It's made of nabiscos with a zuzu wheel . 
Very good very good , remarked Mr. Bunn . 
That is certainly very kind of you . 
Go with Pop Over and Mr. Muffin , little girl , and they will feed you . 
Thank you very much , said Dorothy , gratefully . 
May I bring my dog Toto , and the Yellow Hen ? They're hungry , too . 
Will you make them behave ? asked the Muffin . 
Of course , promised Dorothy . 
Then come along , said Pop Over . 
So Dorothy and Billina and Toto walked up the street and the people seemed no longer to be at all afraid of them . 
Mr. Muffin's house came first , and as his wheelbarrow stood in the front yard the little girl ate that first . 
It didn't seem very fresh , but she was so hungry that she was not particular . 
Toto ate some , too , while Billina picked up the crumbs . 
While the strangers were engaged in eating , many of the people came and stood in the street curiously watching them . 
You musn't say such things , Billina , said Dorothy , reprovingly . 
Now let's go into Pop Over's back yard and get the waffles . 
I sort of hate to let that fence go , remarked Mr. Over , nervously , as they walked toward his house . 
The neighbors back of us are Soda Biscuits , and I don't care to mix with them . 
But I'm hungry yet , declared the girl . 
That wheelbarrow wasn't very big . 
I've got a shortcake piano , but none of my family can play on it , he said , reflectively . 
All right , said Dorothy I don't mind . 
So Mr. Over led her into the house , where she ate the piano , which was of an excellent flavor . 
Is there anything to drink here ? she asked . 
Yes I've a milk pump and a water pump which will you have ? he asked . 
I guess I'll try 'em both , said Dorothy . 
The wife of Pop Over was several shades darker than her husband . 
Aren't you overdone ? the little girl asked her . 
No indeed , answered the woman . 
I'm neither overdone nor done over I'm just Mrs. Over , and I'm the President of the Bunbury Breakfast Band . 
Dorothy thanked them for their hospitality and went away . 
At the gate Mr. Cinnamon Bunn met her and said he would show her around the town . 
We have some very interesting inhabitants , he remarked , walking stiffly beside her on his stick cinnamon legs and all of us who are in good health are well bred . 
If you are no longer hungry we will call upon a few of the most important citizens . 
Toto and Billina followed behind them , behaving very well , and a little way down the street they came to a handsome residence where Aunt Sally Lunn lived . 
The old lady was glad to meet the little girl and gave her a slice of white bread and butter which had been used as a door mat . 
It was almost fresh and tasted better than anything Dorothy had eaten in the town . 
Where do you get the butter ? she inquired . 
We dig it out of the ground , which , as you may have observed , is all flour and meal , replied Mr. Bunn . 
There is a butter mine just at the opposite side of the village . 
The trees which you see here are all doughleanders and doughderas , and in the season we get quite a crop of dough nuts off them . 
I should think the flour would blow around and get into your eyes , said Dorothy . 
No , said he we are bothered with cracker dust sometimes , but never with flour . 
Then he took her to see Johnny Cake , a cheerful old gentleman who lived near by . 
I suppose you've heard of me , said old Johnny , with an air of pride . 
I'm a great favorite all over the world . 
Aren't you rather yellow ? asked Dorothy , looking at him critically . 
But don't think I'm bilious , for I was never in better health in my life , replied the old gentleman . 
If anything ailed me , I'd willingly acknowledge the corn . 
Johnny's a trifle stale , said Mr. Bunn , as they went away but he's a good mixer and never gets cross grained . 
I will now take you to call upon some of my own relatives . 
They visited the Sugar Bunns , the Currant Bunns and the Spanish Bunns , the latter having a decidedly foreign appearance . 
Then they saw the French Rolls , who were very polite to them , and made a brief call upon the Parker H. Rolls , who seemed a bit proud and overbearing . 
But they're not as stuck up as the Frosted Jumbles , declared Mr. Bunn , who are people I really can't abide . 
I don't like to be suspicious or talk scandal , but sometimes I think the Jumbles have too much baking powder in them . 
Just then a dreadful scream was heard , and Dorothy turned hastily around to find a scene of great excitement a little way down the street . 
The people were crowding around Toto and throwing at him everything they could find at hand . 
They pelted the little dog with hard tack , crackers , and even articles of furniture which were hard baked and heavy enough for missiles . 
Toto's mouth was full of his salt rising victim so he only whined and wagged his tail . 
Yes , and you pecked out the eyes of a Raisin Bunn one of our best citizens ! shouted a bread pudding , shaking its fist at the Yellow Hen . 
What's that ! What's that ? wailed Mr. Cinnamon Bunn , who had now joined them . 
I've been kind to you and eaten your old wheelbarrows and pianos and rubbish , an' not said a word . 
But Toto and Billina can't be 'spected to go hungry when the town's full of good things they like to eat , 'cause they can't understand your stingy ways as I do . 
You must leave here at once ! said Mr. Bunn , sternly . 
Suppose we won't go ? said Dorothy , who was now much provoked . 
Then , said he , we will put you into the great ovens where we are made , and bake you . 
Dorothy gazed around and saw threatening looks upon the faces of all . 
She had not noticed any ovens in the town , but they might be there , nevertheless , for some of the inhabitants seemed very fresh . 
If any quarrels arose she decided them justly if any one needed counsel or advice she was ready and willing to listen to them . 
For a day or two after Dorothy and her companions had started on their trip , Ozma was occupied with the affairs of her kingdom . 
Then she began to think of some manner of occupation for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em that would be light and easy and yet give the old people something to do . 
That would keep Uncle Henry busy enough , but it was harder to find something for Aunt Em to do . 
The palace was full of servants , so there was no detail of housework that Aunt Em could look after . 
While Ozma sat in her pretty room engaged in thought she happened to glance at her Magic Picture . 
This was one of the most important treasures in all the Land of Oz . 
It was a large picture , set in a beautiful gold frame , and it hung in a prominent place upon a wall of Ozma's private room . 
In this way the Princess could view any part of the world she wished , and watch the actions of any one in whom she was interested . 
Ozma had often seen Dorothy in her Kansas home by this means , and now , having a little leisure , she expressed a desire to see her little friend again . 
It was while the travelers were at Fuddlecumjig , and Ozma laughed merrily as she watched in the picture her friends trying to match the pieces of Grandmother Gnit . 
They seem happy and are doubtless having a good time , the girl Ruler said to herself and then she began to think of the many adventures she herself had encountered with Dorothy . 
The image of her friends now faded from the Magic Picture and the old landscape slowly reappeared . 
The pretty Princess smiled at the recollection of this adventure , and then she wondered what had become of the Nome King since then . 
Merely because she was curious and had nothing better to do , Ozma glanced at the Magic Picture and wished to see in it the King of the Nomes . 
Roquat the Red went every day into his tunnel to see how the work was getting along and to hurry his workmen as much as possible . 
He was there now , and Ozma saw him plainly in the Magic Picture . 
She saw the underground tunnel , reaching far underneath the Deadly Desert which separated the Land of Oz from the mountains beneath which the Nome King had his extensive caverns . 
I suppose King Roquat is planning revenge against us , she said , musingly , and thinks he can surprise us and make us his captives and slaves . 
Ozma wore few holes in her stockings still , they sometimes needed mending . 
Aunt Em ought to be able to do that very nicely . 
Next day , the Princess watched the tunnel again in her Magic Picture , and every day afterward she devoted a few minutes to inspecting the work . 
It was not especially interesting , but she felt that it was her duty . 
Slowly but surely the big , arched hole crept through the rocks underneath the deadly desert , and day by day it drew nearer and nearer to the Emerald City . 
Often I've eaten things that tasted good but were disagreeable afterward , returned the Yellow Hen . 
I think , Dorothy , if eatables are going to act badly , it's better before than after you eat them . 
P'raps you're right , said the little girl , with a sigh . 
But what shall we do now ? Let us follow the path back to the signpost , suggested Billina . 
That will be better than getting lost again . 
Why , we're lost anyhow , declared Dorothy but I guess you're right about going back to that signpost , Billina . 
They returned along the path to the place where they had first found it , and at once took the other road to Bunnybury . 
This road was a mere narrow strip , worn hard and smooth but not wide enough for Dorothy's feet to tread . 
Still , it was a guide , and the walking through the forest was not at all difficult . 
Before long they reached a high wall of solid white marble , and the path came to an end at this wall . 
Pretty soon a bolt was cautiously withdrawn and the marble door swung slowly open . 
Well ! what is it ? asked the rabbit , sharply . 
I'm Dorothy , said the girl , and I'm lost , and State your business , please , interrupted the rabbit . 
Wait a minute ! cried Dorothy . 
I've got a letter from Ozma . 
From the Ruler of Oz ? asked the rabbit , doubtingly . 
Ozma's my best friend , you know and I'm a Princess myself , she announced , earnestly . 
Hum ha ! Let me see your letter , returned the rabbit , as if he still doubted her . 
So she hunted in her pocket and found the letter Ozma had given her . 
Then she handed it through the bars to the rabbit , who took it in his paws and opened it . 
He read it aloud in a pompous voice , as if to let Dorothy and Billina see that he was educated and could read writing . 
Ha hum ! It is signed 'Ozma of Oz , continued the rabbit , and is sealed with the Great Seal of the Emerald City . 
Well , well , well ! How strange ! How remarkable ! What are you going to do about it ? inquired Dorothy , impatiently . 
We must obey the royal mandate , replied the rabbit . 
We are subjects of Ozma of Oz , and we live in her country . 
Also we are under the protection of the great Sorceress Glinda the Good , who made us promise to respect Ozma's commands . 
Then may I come in ? she asked . 
I'll open the door , said the rabbit . 
Here stood the rabbit she had been talking with , and now that she could see all of him , she gazed at the creature in surprise . 
He was a good sized white rabbit with pink eyes , much like all other white rabbits . 
But the astonishing thing about him was the manner in which he was dressed . 
He wore a white satin jacket embroidered with gold , and having diamond buttons . 
His vest was rose colored satin , with tourmaline buttons . 
His trousers were white , to correspond with the jacket , and they were baggy at the knees like those of a zouave being tied with knots of rose ribbons . 
His shoes were of white plush with diamond buckles , and his stockings were rose silk . 
The richness and even magnificence of the rabbit's clothing made Dorothy stare at the little creature wonderingly . 
Toto and Billina had followed her into the room and when he saw them the rabbit ran to a table and sprang upon it nimbly . 
Then he looked at the three through his monocle and said These companions , Princess , cannot enter Bunnybury with you . 
Why not ? asked Dorothy . 
In the first place they would frighten our people , who dislike dogs above all things on earth and , secondly , the letter of the Royal Ozma does not mention them . 
But they're my friends , persisted Dorothy , and go wherever I go . 
Not this time , said the rabbit , decidedly . 
Never mind us , Dorothy , said Billina . 
Go inside and see what the place is like . 
You can tell us about it afterward , and Toto and I will rest comfortably here until you return . 
She had not forgotten how Toto and Billina had misbehaved in Bunbury , and perhaps the rabbit was wise to insist on their staying outside the town . 
Very well , she said , I'll go in alone . 
I must now inform you , Princess , that before you enter our town you must consent to reduce . 
Reduce what ? asked Dorothy . 
You must become the size of the rabbits , although you may retain your own form . 
Wouldn't my clothes be too big for me ? she inquired . 
No they will reduce when your body does . 
Can YOU make me smaller ? asked the girl . 
Easily , returned the rabbit . 
And will you make me big again , when I'm ready to go away ? I will , said he . 
All right , then I'm willing , she announced . 
The rabbit jumped from the table and ran or rather hopped to the further wall , where he opened a door so tiny that even Toto could scarcely have crawled through it . 
Follow me , he said . 
Indeed , as she stood beside the rabbit , who sat upon his hind legs and used his paws as hands , her head was just about as high as his own . 
Then the Keeper of the Wicket passed through and she followed , after which the door swung shut and locked itself with a sharp click . 
Dorothy now found herself in a city so strange and beautiful that she gave a gasp of surprise . 
The high marble wall extended all around the place and shut out all the rest of the world . 
And here were marble houses of curious forms , most of them resembling overturned kettles but with delicate slender spires and minarets running far up into the sky . 
The streets were paved with white marble and in front of each house was a lawn of rich green clover . 
Everything was as neat as wax , the green and white contrasting prettily together . 
But the rabbit people were , after all , the most amazing things Dorothy saw . 
The streets were full of them , and their costumes were so splendid that the rich dress of the Keeper of the Wicket was commonplace when compared with the others . 
Silks and satins of delicate hues seemed always used for material , and nearly every costume sparkled with exquisite gems . 
But the lady rabbits outshone the gentlemen rabbits in splendor , and the cut of their gowns was really wonderful . 
They wore bonnets , too , with feathers and jewels in them , and some wheeled baby carriages in which the girl could see wee bunnies . 
Some were lying asleep while others lay sucking their paws and looking around them with big pink eyes . 
As Dorothy was no bigger in size than the grown up rabbits she had a chance to observe them closely before they noticed her presence . 
Then they did not seem at all alarmed , although the little girl naturally became the center of attraction and regarded her with great curiosity . 
Make way ! cried the Keeper of the Wicket , in a pompous voice make way for Princess Dorothy , who comes from Ozma of Oz . 
Hearing this announcement , the throng of rabbits gave place to them on the walks , and as Dorothy passed along they all bowed their heads respectfully . 
Walking thus through several handsome streets they came to a square in the center of the City . 
The Captain had a sword and a white plume in his shako . 
Salute ! called the Keeper of the Wicket . 
Salute Princess Dorothy , who comes from Ozma of Oz ! Salute ! yelled the Captain , and all the soldiers promptly saluted . 
They now entered the great hall of the palace , where they met a gaily dressed attendant , from whom the Keeper of the Wicket inquired if the King were at leisure . 
I think so , was the reply . 
I heard his Majesty blubbering and wailing as usual only a few minutes ago . 
If he doesn't stop acting like a cry baby I'm going to resign my position here and go to work . 
What's the matter with your King ? asked Dorothy , surprised to hear the rabbit attendant speak so disrespectfully of his monarch . 
Oh , he doesn't want to be King , that's all and he simply HAS to , was the reply . 
Come ! said the Keeper of the Wicket , sternly lead us to his Majesty and do not air our troubles before strangers , I beg of you . 
Why , if this girl is going to see the King , he'll air his own troubles , returned the attendant . 
That is his royal privilege , declared the Keeper . 
So the attendant led them into a room all draped with cloth of gold and furnished with satin covered gold furniture . 
There was a throne in this room , set on a dais and having a big , cushioned seat , and on this seat reclined the Rabbit King . 
He was lying on his back , with his paws in the air , and whining very like a puppy dog . 
Your Majesty ! your Majesty ! Get up . 
Here's a visitor , called out the attendant . 
The King rolled over and looked at Dorothy with one watery pink eye . 
Then he sat up and wiped his eyes carefully with a silk handkerchief and put on his jeweled crown , which had fallen off . 
Excuse my grief , fair stranger , he said , in a sad voice . 
You behold in me the most miserable monarch in all the world . 
What time is it , Blinkem ? One o'clock , your Majesty , replied the attendant to whom the question was addressed . 
Serve luncheon at once ! commanded the King . 
Luncheon for two that's for my visitor and me and see that the human has some sort of food she's accustomed to . 
Yes , your Majesty , answered the attendant , and went away . 
Tie my shoe , Bristle , said the King to the Keeper of the Wicket . 
Ah me ! how unhappy I am ! What seems to be worrying your Majesty ? asked Dorothy . 
Why , it's this king business , of course , he returned , while the Keeper tied his shoe . 
I didn't want to be King of Bunnybury at all , and the rabbits all knew it . 
So they elected me to save themselves from such a dreadful fate , I suppose and here I am , shut up in a palace , when I might be free and happy . 
Seems to me , said Dorothy , it's a great thing to be a King . 
Were you ever a King ? inquired the monarch . 
No , she answered , laughing . 
Then you know nothing about it , he said . 
I haven't inquired who you are , but it doesn't matter . 
While we're at luncheon , I'll tell you all my troubles . 
They're a great deal more interesting than anything you can say about yourself . 
Perhaps they are , to you , replied Dorothy . 
Now clear out all of you ! exclaimed the King . 
Bristle , you may wait outside , in case I want you . 
When they had gone and the King was alone with Dorothy he came down from his throne , tossed his crown into a corner and kicked his ermine robe under the table . 
Sit down , he said , and try to be happy . 
It's useless for me to try , because I'm always wretched and miserable . 
But I'm hungry , and I hope you are . 
I am , said Dorothy . 
I've only eaten a wheelbarrow and a piano to day oh , yes ! and a slice of bread and butter that used to be a door mat . 
That sounds like a square meal , remarked the King , seating himself opposite her but perhaps it wasn't a square piano . 
You don't seem so very unhappy now , she said . 
But I am , protested the King , fresh tears gathering in his eyes . 
Even my jokes are miserable . 
I'm wretched , woeful , afflicted , distressed and dismal as an individual can be . 
Are you not sorry for me ? No , answered Dorothy , honestly , I can't say I am . 
Seems to me that for a rabbit you're right in clover . 
This is the prettiest little city I ever saw . 
Oh , the city is good enough , he admitted . 
Glinda , the Good Sorceress , made it for us because she was fond of rabbits . 
I don't mind the City so much , although I wouldn't live here if I had my choice . 
It is being King that has absolutely ruined my happiness . 
Why wouldn't you live here by choice ? she asked . 
Because it is all unnatural , my dear . 
Rabbits are out of place in such luxury . 
When I was young I lived in a burrow in the forest . 
I was surrounded by enemies and often had to run for my life . 
It was hard getting enough to eat , at times , and when I found a bunch of clover I had to listen and look for danger while I ate it . 
Wolves prowled around the hole in which I lived and sometimes I didn't dare stir out for days at a time . 
It IS fun when you're the genuine article , agreed his Majesty . 
But look at me now ! I live in a marble palace instead of a hole in the ground . 
I have all I want to eat , without the joy of hunting for it . 
Every day I must dress in fine clothes and wear that horrible crown till it makes my head ache . 
Rabbits come to me with all sorts of troubles , when my own troubles are the only ones I care about . 
But they got civ'lized , in time , and now they'd hate to go back to the old days . 
That is an entirely different case , replied the King . 
None of you Humans were civilized in one lifetime . 
It came to you by degrees . 
Pah ! If you don't like it , why don't you resign ? she asked . 
Impossible ! wailed the Rabbit , wiping his eyes again with his handkerchief . 
There's a beastly law in this town that forbids it . 
When one is elected a King , there's no getting out of it . 
Who made the laws ? inquired Dorothy . 
The same Sorceress who made the town Glinda the Good . 
She built the wall , and fixed up the City , and gave us several valuable enchantments , and made the laws . 
Then she invited all the pink eyed white rabbits of the forest to come here , after which she left us to our fate . 
What made you 'cept the invitation , and come here ? asked the child . 
I didn't know how dreadful city life was , and I'd no idea I would be elected King , said he , sobbing bitterly . 
Will you ? Will you , indeed ? asked the King , joyfully . 
I will if you want me to , she replied . 
Hurroo huray ! shouted the King and then he jumped up from the table and danced wildly about the room , waving his napkin like a flag and laughing with glee . 
After a time he managed to control his delight and returned to the table . 
When are you likely to see Glinda ? he inquired . 
Oh , p'raps in a few days , said Dorothy . 
And you won't forget to ask her ? Of course not . 
Princess , said the Rabbit King , earnestly , you have relieved me of a great unhappiness , and I am very grateful . 
Therefore I propose to entertain you , since you are my guest and I am the King , as a slight mark of my appreciation . 
Come with me to my reception hall . 
He then summoned Bristle and said to him Assemble all the nobility in the great reception hall , and also tell Blinkem that I want him immediately . 
The Keeper of the Wicket bowed and hurried away , and his Majesty turned to Dorothy and continued We'll have time for a walk in the gardens before the people get here . 
The gardens were back of the palace and were filled with beautiful flowers and fragrant shrubs , with many shade and fruit trees and marble paved walks running in every direction . 
As they entered this place Blinkem came running to the King , who gave him several orders in a low voice . 
Then his Majesty rejoined Dorothy and led her through the gardens , which she admired very much . 
What lovely clothes your Majesty wears ! she said , glancing at the rich blue satin costume , embroidered , with pearls in which the King was dressed . 
Yes , he returned , with an air of pride , this is one of my favorite suits but I have a good many that are even more elaborate . 
We have excellent tailors in Bunnybury , and Glinda supplies all the material . 
By the way , you might ask the Sorceress , when you see her , to permit me to keep my wardrobe . 
But if you go back to the forest you will not need clothes , she said . 
N o ! he faltered that may be so . 
But I've dressed up so long that I'm used to it , and I don't imagine I'd care to run around naked again . 
So perhaps the Good Glinda will let me keep the costumes . 
I'll ask her , agreed Dorothy . 
The King's chair was an especially pretty piece of furniture , being in the shape of a silver lily with one leaf bent over to form the seat . 
The silver was everywhere thickly encrusted with diamonds and the seat was upholstered in white satin . 
Oh , what a splendid chair ! cried Dorothy , clasping her hands admiringly . 
Isn't it ? answered the King , proudly . 
It is my favorite seat , and I think it especially becoming to my complexion . 
While I think of it , I wish you'd ask Glinda to let me keep this lily chair when I go away . 
It wouldn't look very well in a hole in the ground , would it ? she suggested . 
Maybe not but I'm used to sitting in it and I'd like to take it with me , he answered . 
But here come the ladies and gentlemen of the court so please sit beside me and be presented . 
How the King Changed His Mind Just then a rabbit band of nearly fifty pieces marched in , playing upon golden instruments and dressed in neat uniforms . 
Following the band came the nobility of Bunnybury , all richly dressed and hopping along on their rear legs . 
Both the ladies and the gentlemen wore white gloves upon their paws , with their rings on the outside of the gloves , as this seemed to be the fashion here . 
Some of the lady rabbits carried lorgnettes , while many of the gentlemen rabbits wore monocles in their left eyes . 
The courtiers and their ladies paraded past the King , who introduced Princess Dorothy to each couple in a very graceful manner . 
Then the company seated themselves in chairs and on sofas and looked expectantly at their monarch . 
It is our royal duty , as well as our royal pleasure , he said , to provide fitting entertainment for our distinguished guest . 
We will now present the Royal Band of Whiskered Friskers . 
As he spoke the musicians , who had arranged themselves in a corner , struck up a dance melody while into the room pranced the Whiskered Friskers . 
They were eight pretty rabbits dressed only in gauzy purple skirts fastened around their waists with diamond bands . 
Their whiskers were colored a rich purple , but otherwise they were pure white . 
After bowing before the King and Dorothy the Friskers began their pranks , and these were so comical that Dorothy laughed with real enjoyment . 
Finally , they all made double somersaults and turned handsprings out of the room . 
The nobility enthusiastically applauded , and Dorothy applauded with them . 
They're fine ! she said to the King . 
Yes , the Whiskered Friskers are really very clever , he replied . 
I shall hate to part with them when I go away , for they have often amused me when I was very miserable . 
I wonder if you would ask Glinda No , it wouldn't do at all , declared Dorothy , positively . 
There wouldn't be room in your hole in the ground for so many rabbits , 'spec'ly when you get the lily chair and your clothes there . 
Don't think of such a thing , your Majesty . 
Then he stood up and announced to the company We will now hold a military drill by my picked Bodyguard of Royal Pikemen . 
Now the band played a march and a company of rabbit soldiers came in . 
They wore green and gold uniforms and marched very stiffly but in perfect time . 
Their spears , or pikes , had slender shafts of polished silver with golden heads , and during the drill they handled these weapons with wonderful dexterity . 
I should think you'd feel pretty safe with such a fine Bodyguard , remarked Dorothy . 
I do , said the King . 
They protect me from every harm . 
I suppose Glinda wouldn't No , interrupted the girl I'm sure she wouldn't . 
It's the King's own Bodyguard , and when you are no longer King you can't have 'em . 
The King did not reply , but he looked rather sorrowful for a time . 
When the soldiers had marched out he said to the company The Royal Jugglers will now appear . 
Dorothy had seen many jugglers in her lifetime , but never any so interesting as these . 
There were six of them , dressed in black satin embroidered with queer symbols in silver a costume which contrasted strongly with their snow white fur . 
First , they pushed in a big red ball and three of the rabbit jugglers stood upon its top and made it roll . 
Then two of them caught up a third and tossed him into the air , all vanishing , until only the two were left . 
Then one of these tossed the other upward and remained alone of all his fellows . 
This last juggler now touched the red ball , which fell apart , being hollow , and the five rabbits who had disappeared in the air scrambled out of the hollow ball . 
Next they all clung together and rolled swiftly upon the floor . 
When they came to a stop only one fat rabbit juggler was seen , the others seeming to be inside him . 
This one leaped lightly into the air and when he came down he exploded and separated into the original six . 
Then four of them rolled themselves into round balls and the other two tossed them around and played ball with them . 
These were but a few of the tricks the rabbit jugglers performed , and they were so skillful that all the nobility and even the King applauded as loudly as did Dorothy . 
I suppose there are no rabbit jugglers in all the world to compare with these , remarked the King . 
And since I may not have the Whiskers Friskers or my Bodyguard , you might ask Glinda to let me take away just two or three of these jugglers . 
Will you ? I'll ask her , replied Dorothy , doubtfully . 
Thank you , said the King thank you very much . 
And now you shall listen to the Winsome Waggish Warblers , who have often cheered me in my moments of anguish . 
The Winsome Waggish Warblers proved to be a quartette of rabbit singers , two gentlemen and two lady rabbits . 
The gentlemen Warblers wore full dress swallow tailed suits of white satin , with pearls for buttons , while the lady Warblers were gowned in white satin dresses with long trails . 
Dorothy looked at the King when she heard this song and noticed that he seemed disturbed and ill at ease . 
I don't like that song , he said to the Warblers . 
Give us something jolly and rollicking . 
So they sang to a joyous , tinkling melody as follows Bunnies gay Delight to play In their fairy town secure Ev'ry frisker Flirts his whisker At a pink eyed girl demure . 
Ev'ry maid In silk arrayed At her partner shyly glances , Paws are grasped , Waists are clasped As they whirl in giddy dances . 
Then together Through the heather 'Neath the moonlight soft they stroll Each is very Blithe and merry , Gamboling with laughter droll . 
Life is fun To ev'ry one Guarded by our magic charm For to dangers We are strangers , Safe from any thought of harm . 
You see , said Dorothy to the King , when the song ended , the rabbits all seem to like Bunnybury except you . 
And I guess you're the only one that ever has cried or was unhappy and wanted to get back to your muddy hole in the ground . 
His Majesty seemed thoughtful , and while the servants passed around glasses of nectar and plates of frosted cakes their King was silent and a bit nervous . 
When the refreshments had been enjoyed by all and the servants had retired Dorothy said I must go now , for it's getting late and I'm lost . 
I've got to find the Wizard and Aunt Em and Uncle Henry and all the rest sometime before night comes , if I poss'bly can . 
Won't you stay with us ? asked the King . 
You will be very welcome . 
No , thank you , she replied . 
I must get back to my friends . 
And I want to see Glinda just as soon as I can , you know . 
So the King dismissed his court and said he would himself walk with Dorothy to the gate . 
He did not weep nor groan any more , but his long face was quite solemn and his big ears hung dejectedly on each side of it . 
He still wore his crown and his ermine and walked with a handsome gold headed cane . 
When they arrived at the room in the wall the little girl found Toto and Billina waiting for her very patiently . 
They had been liberally fed by some of the attendants and were in no hurry to leave such comfortable quarters . 
The Keeper of the Wicket was by this time back in his old place , but he kept a safe distance from Toto . 
Dorothy bade good bye to the King as they stood just inside the wall . 
You've been good to me , she said , and I thank you ever so much . 
As soon as poss'ble I'll see Glinda and ask her to put another King in your place and send you back into the wild forest . 
And I'll ask her to let you keep some of your clothes and the lily chair and one or two jugglers to amuse you . 
I'm sure she will do it , 'cause she's so kind she doesn't like any one to be unhappy . 
Ahem ! said the King , looking rather downcast . 
I don't like to trouble you with my misery so you needn't see Glinda . 
Oh , yes I will , she replied . 
It won't be any trouble at all . 
So perhaps I'd better stay . 
It won't do for you to be a King and a cry baby at the same time , she said . 
You've been making all the other rabbits unhappy and discontented with your howls about being so miserable . 
So I guess it's better to have another King . 
Oh , no indeed ! exclaimed the King , earnestly . 
If you won't say anything to Glinda I'll promise to be merry and gay all the time , and never cry or wail again . 
Honor bright ? she asked . 
On the royal word of a King I promise it ! he answered . 
All right , said Dorothy . 
You'd be a reg'lar lunatic to want to leave Bunnybury for a wild life in the forest , and I'm sure any rabbit outside the city would be glad to take your place . 
Forget it , my dear forget all my foolishness , pleaded the King , earnestly . 
Hereafter I'll try to enjoy myself and do my duty by my subjects . 
So then she left him and entered through the little door into the room in the wall , where she grew gradually bigger and bigger until she had resumed her natural size . 
I shall start a petition to have your statue erected beside Glinda's in the public square , said the Keeper . 
I hope you will come again , some day , and see it . 
Perhaps I shall , she replied . 
Then , followed by Toto and Billina , she walked away from the high marble wall and started back along the narrow path toward the sign post . 
The Shaggy Man and Omby Amby were gathering firewood while Uncle Henry and Aunt Em sat in their camp chairs talking with the Wizard . 
Well , you see , I've been lost , explained the little girl , and I've tried awful hard to find the way back to you , but just couldn't do it . 
Did you wander in the forest all day ? asked Uncle Henry . 
You must be a'most starved ! said Aunt Em . 
No , said Dorothy , I'm not hungry . 
I had a wheelbarrow and a piano for breakfast , and lunched with a King . 
Ah ! exclaimed the Wizard , nodding with a bright smile . 
So you've been having adventures again . 
She's stark crazy ! cried Aunt Em . 
Whoever heard of eating a wheelbarrow ? It wasn't very big , said Dorothy and it had a zuzu wheel . 
And I ate the crumbs , said Billina , soberly . 
Sit down and tell us about it , begged the Wizard . 
We've hunted for you all day , and at last I noticed your footsteps in this path and the tracks of Billina . 
We found the path by accident , and seeing it only led to two places I decided you were at either one or the other of those places . 
So we made camp and waited for you to return . 
She then sat down and related the day's adventures , and you may be sure Aunt Em and Uncle Henry were much astonished at the story . 
But after seeing the Cuttenclips and the Fuddles , remarked her uncle , we ought not to wonder at anything in this strange country . 
Seems like the only common and ordinary folks here are ourselves , rejoined Aunt Em , diffidently . 
Where to ? asked the Captain General . 
We haven't visited the Rigmaroles or the Flutterbudgets yet , said Dorothy . 
I'd like to see them wouldn't you ? They don't sound very interesting , objected Aunt Em . 
And then , continued the little Wizard , we will call upon the Tin Woodman and Jack Pumpkinhead and our old friend the Scarecrow , on our way home . 
That will be nice ! cried Dorothy , eagerly . 
Can't say THEY sound very interesting , either , remarked Aunt Em . 
Why , they're the best friends I have ! asserted the little girl , and you're sure to like them , Aunt Em , 'cause EVER'body likes them . 
By this time twilight was approaching , so they ate the fine supper which the Wizard magically produced from the kettle and then went to bed in the cozy tents . 
They were all up bright and early next morning , but Dorothy didn't venture to wander from the camp again for fear of more accidents . 
Do you know where there's a road ? she asked the little man . 
No , my dear , replied the Wizard but I'll find one . 
After breakfast he waved his hand toward the tents and they became handkerchiefs again , which were at once returned to the pockets of their owners . 
Then they all climbed into the red wagon and the Sawhorse inquired Which way ? Never mind which way , replied the Wizard . 
Just go as you please and you're sure to be right . 
I've enchanted the wheels of the wagon , and they will roll in the right direction , never fear . 
Airship ? Pah ! retorted the little man , scornfully . 
I hate those things , Dorothy , although they are nothing new to either you or me . 
I was a balloonist for many years , and once my balloon carried me to the Land of Oz , and once to the Vegetable Kingdom . 
And once Ozma had a Gump that flew all over this kingdom and had sense enough to go where it was told to which airships won't do . 
Airships are not so bad , after all , declared Dorothy . 
Some day they'll fly all over the world , and perhaps bring people even to the Land of Oz . 
I must speak to Ozma about that , said the Wizard , with a slight frown . 
It wouldn't do at all , you know , for the Emerald City to become a way station on an airship line . 
No , said Dorothy , I don't s'pose it would . 
That won't keep the things from flying , now and then , but it'll keep them from flying to the Land of Oz . 
Just then the Sawhorse drew the wagon out of the forest and a beautiful landscape lay spread before the travelers' eyes . 
Moreover , right before them was a good road that wound away through the hills and valleys . 
Now , said the Wizard , with evident delight , we are on the right track again , and there is nothing more to worry about . 
It's a foolish thing to take chances in a strange country , observed the Shaggy Man . 
Had we kept to the roads we never would have been lost . 
Roads always lead to some place , else they wouldn't be roads . 
This road , added the Wizard , leads to Rigmarole Town . 
I'm sure of that because I enchanted the wagon wheels . 
Sure enough , after riding along the road for an hour or two they entered a pretty valley where a village was nestled among the hills . 
The houses were Munchkin shaped , for they were all domes , with windows wider than they were high , and pretty balconies over the front doors . 
Aunt Em was greatly relieved to find this town neither paper nor patch work , and the only surprising thing about it was that it was so far distant from all other towns . 
As the Sawhorse drew the wagon into the main street the travelers noticed that the place was filled with people , standing in groups and seeming to be engaged in earnest conversation . 
So occupied with themselves were the inhabitants that they scarcely noticed the strangers at all . 
It's a rigmarole because the boy is a Rigmarole and we've come to Rigmarole Town . 
Do they all talk like that ? asked Dorothy , wonderingly . 
He might have said 'yes' or 'no' and settled the question , observed Uncle Henry . 
Not here , said Omby Amby . 
I don't believe the Rigmaroles know what 'yes' or 'no' means . 
While the boy had been talking several other people had approached the wagon and listened intently to his speech . 
Then they began talking to one another in long , deliberate speeches , where many words were used but little was said . 
I've lost all track of what you are saying . 
Don't let her begin over again , for goodness sake ! cried Aunt Em . 
But the woman did not begin again . 
She did not even stop talking , but went right on as she had begun , the words flowing from her mouth in a stream . 
I'm quite sure that if we waited long enough and listened carefully , some of these people might be able to tell us something , in time , said the Wizard . 
Let's don't wait , returned Dorothy . 
I've heard of the Rigmaroles , and wondered what they were like but now I know , and I'm ready to move on . 
So am I , declared Uncle Henry we're wasting time here . 
Why , we're all ready to go , said the Shaggy Man , putting his fingers to his ears to shut out the monotonous babble of those around the wagon . 
So the Wizard spoke to the Sawhorse , who trotted nimbly through the village and soon gained the open country on the other side of it . 
If those people wrote books , Omby Amby remarked with a smile , it would take a whole library to say the cow jumped over the moon . 
Perhaps some of 'em do write books , asserted the little Wizard . 
I've read a few rigmaroles that might have come from this very town . 
The Rigmaroles had made a strong impression upon her . 
She decided that whenever she spoke , after this , she would use only enough words to express what she wanted to say . 
Mile after mile was speedily covered , and before the ride had grown at all tiresome they sighted another village . 
The place seemed even larger than Rigmarole Town , but was not so attractive in appearance . 
This must be Flutterbudget Center , declared the Wizard . 
You see , it's no trouble at all to find places if you keep to the right road . 
What are the Flutterbudgets like ? inquired Dorothy . 
I do not know , my dear . 
But Ozma has given them a town all their own , and I've heard that whenever one of the people becomes a Flutterbudget he is sent to this place to live . 
That is true , Omby Amby added Flutterbudget Center and Rigmarole Town are called 'the Defensive Settlements of Oz . 
Look out ! screamed a voice . 
Look out , or you'll run over my child ! They gazed around and saw a woman standing upon the sidewalk nervously wringing her hands as she gazed at them appealingly . 
Where is your child ? asked the Sawhorse . 
Oh dear ! oh dear ! Think of my darling child being crushed into jelly by those great wheels ! Gid dap ! said the Wizard sharply , and the Sawhorse started on . 
Dorothy followed them as quickly as she could . 
What's the matter ? asked the Wizard . 
They found a woman in the front dooryard moaning and groaning as if in great pain . 
Be brave , madam ! said the Wizard , consolingly . 
You won't die just because you have cut off a finger , you may be sure . 
But I haven't cut off a finger ! she sobbed . 
Then what HAS happened ? asked Dorothy . 
I I pricked my finger with a needle while I was sewing , and and the blood came ! she replied . 
Really ? asked the woman , brightening and wiping her eyes upon her apron . 
Why , it's nothing at all , declared the girl . 
You're more scared than hurt . 
Ah , that's because she's a Flutterbudget , said the Wizard , nodding wisely . 
I think I know now what these people are like . 
So do I , announced Dorothy . 
Oh , boo hoo hoo ! sobbed the woman , giving way to a fresh burst of grief . 
What's wrong now ? asked the Shaggy Man . 
Oh , suppose I had pricked my foot ! she wailed . 
But you see you didn't . 
But I might have ! she exclaimed , and began to cry again . 
So they left her and drove away in their wagon . 
And her husband came out and began calling Help ! as he had before but no one seemed to pay any attention to him . 
As the travelers turned into another street they found a man walking excitedly up and down the pavement . 
He appeared to be in a very nervous condition and the Wizard stopped him to ask Is anything wrong , sir ? Everything is wrong , answered the man , dismally . 
Why not ? inquired Omby Amby . 
No , said the man , I never did . 
But it would be a dreadful thing , wouldn't it ? And the thought of it makes me so nervous I'm afraid to go to sleep . 
There's no help for this case , declared the Wizard and they went on . 
Yes , indeed , said the woman , nervously . 
I've never heard of any , admitted the woman , but if there were Have you any idea of throwing your baby out of the window ? questioned the little man . 
None at all , she said but if All your troubles are due to those 'ifs' , declared the Wizard . 
If you were not a Flutterbudget you wouldn't worry . 
There's another 'if' , replied the woman . 
Are you a Flutterbudget , too ? I will be , if I stay here long , exclaimed the Wizard , nervously . 
Another 'if' ! cried the woman . 
But the Wizard did not stop to argue with her . 
He made the Sawhorse canter all the way down the hill , and only breathed easily when they were miles away from the village . 
After they had ridden in silence for a while Dorothy turned to the little man and asked Do 'ifs' really make Flutterbudgets ? I think the 'ifs' help , he answered seriously . 
Foolish fears , and worries over nothing , with a mixture of nerves and ifs , will soon make a Flutterbudget of any one . 
Then there was another long silence , for all the travelers were thinking over this statement , and nearly all decided it must be true . 
Aha ! cried the Captain General here is the Country of the Winkies . 
We are just crossing the boundary line . 
Then we may be able to lunch with the Tin Woodman , announced the Wizard , joyfully . 
Must we lunch on tin ? asked Aunt Em . 
Oh , no replied Dorothy . 
Nick Chopper knows how to feed meat people , and he will give us plenty of good things to eat , never fear . 
I've been to his castle before . 
Is Nick Chopper the Tin Woodman's name ? asked Uncle Henry . 
Yes that's one of his names , answered the little girl and another of his names is 'Emp'ror of the Winkies . 
He's the King of this country , you know , but Ozma rules over all the countries of Oz . 
Does the Tin Woodman keep any Flutterbudgets or Rigmaroles at his castle ? inquired Aunt Em , uneasily . 
No indeed , said Dorothy , positively . 
He lives in a new tin castle , all full of lovely things . 
I should think it would rust , said Uncle Henry . 
He has thousands of Winkies to keep it polished for him , explained the Wizard . 
His people love to do anything in their power for their beloved Emperor , so there isn't a particle of rust on all the big castle . 
I suppose they polish their Emperor , too , said Aunt Em . 
Why , some time ago he had himself nickel plated , the Wizard answered so he only needs rubbing up once in a while . 
He's the brightest man in all the world , is dear Nick Chopper and the kindest hearted . 
I helped find him , said Dorothy , reflectively . 
Once the Scarecrow and I found the Tin Woodman in the woods , and he was just rusted still , that time , an' no mistake . 
But we oiled his joints an' got 'em good and slippery , and after that he went with us to visit the Wizard at the Em'rald City . 
Was that the time the Wizard scared you ? asked Aunt Em . 
He didn't treat us well , at first , acknowledged Dorothy for he made us go away and destroy the Wicked Witch . 
But after we found out he was only a humbug wizard we were not afraid of him . 
The Wizard sighed and looked a little ashamed . 
When we try to deceive people we always make mistakes , he said . 
But I'm getting to be a real wizard now , and Glinda the Good's magic , that I am trying to practice , can never harm any one . 
You were always a good man , declared Dorothy , even when you were a bad wizard . 
He's a good wizard now , asserted Aunt Em , looking at the little man admiringly . 
He once made some soap bubbles that astonished the world . 
The Wizard blushed at this praise , yet it pleased him . 
He no longer looked sad , but seemed to have recovered his usual good humor . 
The country through which they now rode was thickly dotted with farmhouses , and yellow grain waved in all the fields . 
Many of the Winkies could be seen working on their farms and the wild and unsettled parts of Oz were by this time left far behind . 
These Winkies appeared to be happy , light hearted folk , and all removed their caps and bowed low when the red wagon with its load of travelers passed by . 
It was not long before they saw something glittering in the sunshine far ahead . 
But at first she said nothing about this , for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em were fairly bubbling over with admiration for the beautiful tin castle and its polished tin owner . 
So her suspicion that something unpleasant had happened was for a time forgotten . 
Why , our old friend has just moved into his new mansion , explained the Tin Woodman . 
It has been a long time in building , although my Winkies and many other people from all parts of the country have been busily working upon it . 
At last , however , it is completed , and the Scarecrow took possession of his new home just two days ago . 
I hadn't heard that he wanted a home of his own , said Dorothy . 
Why doesn't he live with Ozma in the Emerald City ? He used to , you know and I thought he was happy there . 
It seems , said the Tin Woodman , that our dear Scarecrow cannot be contented with city life , however beautiful his surroundings might be . 
Originally he was a farmer , for he passed his early life in a cornfield , where he was supposed to frighten away the crows . 
I know , said Dorothy , nodding . 
I found him , and lifted him down from his pole . 
So now , after a long residence in the Emerald City , his tastes have turned to farm life again , continued the Tin Man . 
Who designed his house ? asked the Shaggy Man . 
I believe it was Jack Pumpkinhead , who is also a farmer , was the reply . 
They were now invited to enter the tin dining room , where luncheon was served . 
They passed the afternoon in wandering through the beautiful gardens and grounds of the palace . 
The walks were all paved with sheets of tin , brightly polished , and there were tin fountains and tin statues here and there among the trees . 
The flowers were mostly natural flowers and grew in the regular way but their host showed them one flower bed which was his especial pride . 
You see , all common flowers fade and die in time , he explained , and so there are seasons when the pretty blooms are scarce . 
Therefore I decided to make one tin flower bed all of tin flowers , and my workmen have created them with rare skill . 
Here you see tin camelias , tin marigolds , tin carnations , tin poppies and tin hollyhocks growing as naturally as if they were real . 
Indeed , they were a pretty sight , and glistened under the sunlight like spun silver . 
Isn't this tin hollyhock going to seed ? asked the Wizard , bending over the flowers . 
Why , I believe it is ! exclaimed the Tin Woodman , as if surprised . 
I hadn't noticed that before . 
But I shall plant the tin seeds and raise another bed of tin hollyhocks . 
In one corner of the gardens Nick Chopper had established a fish pond in which they saw swimming and disporting themselves many pretty tin fishes . 
Would they bite on hooks ? asked Aunt Em , curiously . 
The Tin Woodman seemed hurt at this question . 
The Emperor is very kind hearted , ma'am , explained the Wizard . 
If a fly happens to light upon his tin body he doesn't rudely brush it off , as some people might do he asks it politely to find some other resting place . 
What does the fly do then ? enquired Aunt Em . 
Usually it begs his pardon and goes away , said the Wizard , gravely . 
Flies like to be treated politely as well as other creatures , and here in Oz they understand what we say to them , and behave very nicely . 
Well , said Aunt Em , the flies in Kansas , where I came from , don't understand anything but a swat . 
You have to smash 'em to make 'em behave and it's the same way with 'skeeters . 
Do you have 'skeeters in Oz ? We have some very large mosquitoes here , which sing as beautifully as song birds , replied the Tin Woodman . 
But they never bite or annoy our people , because they are well fed and taken care of . 
The reason they bite people in your country is because they are hungry poor things ! Yes , agreed Aunt Em they're hungry , all right . 
An' they ain't very particular who they feed on . 
I'm glad you've got the 'skeeters educated in Oz . 
That evening after dinner they were entertained by the Emperor's Tin Cornet Band , which played for them several sweet melodies . 
Also the Wizard did a few sleight of hand tricks to amuse the company after which they all retired to their cozy tin bedrooms and slept soundly until morning . 
After breakfast Dorothy said to the Tin Woodman If you'll tell us which way to go we'll visit the Scarecrow on our way home . 
I will go with you , and show you the way , replied the Emperor for I must journey to day to the Emerald City . 
Oh , what is it ? cried Dorothy . 
Do you remember the Nome King ? asked the Tin Woodman . 
I remember him very well , she replied . 
So he has ordered his Nomes to dig a long tunnel underneath the deadly desert , so that he may march his hosts right into the Emerald City . 
When he gets there he intends to destroy our beautiful country . 
Dorothy was much surprised to hear this . 
How did Ozma find out about the tunnel ? she asked . 
She saw it in her Magic Picture . 
Of course , said Dorothy I might have known that . 
And what is she going to do ? I cannot tell , was the reply . 
Pooh ! cried the Yellow Hen . 
We're not afraid of the Nomes . 
If we roll a few of our eggs down the tunnel they'll run away back home as fast as they can go . 
Why , that's true enough ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
The Scarecrow once conquered all the Nome King's army with some of Billina's eggs . 
But you do not understand all of the dreadful plot , continued the Tin Woodman . 
The Nome King is clever , and he knows his Nomes would run from eggs so he has bargained with many terrible creatures to help him . 
These evil spirits are not afraid of eggs or anything else , and they are very powerful . 
So the Nome King will send them through the tunnel first , to conquer and destroy , and then the Nomes will follow after to get their share of the plunder and slaves . 
They were all startled to hear this , and every face wore a troubled look . 
Is the tunnel all ready ? asked Dorothy . 
Ozma sent me word yesterday that the tunnel was all completed except for a thin crust of earth at the end . 
When our enemies break through this crust , they will be in the gardens of the royal palace , in the heart of the Emerald City . 
I offered to arm all my Winkies and march to Ozma's assistance but she said no . 
I wonder why ? asked Dorothy . 
She answered that all the inhabitants of Oz , gathered together , were not powerful enough to fight and overcome the evil forces of the Nome King . 
Therefore she refuses to fight at all . 
But they will capture and enslave us , and plunder and ruin all our lovely land ! exclaimed the Wizard , greatly disturbed by this statement . 
I fear they will , said the Tin Woodman , sorrowfully . 
What can be done ? asked Dorothy , shuddering a little at the prospect of this awful fate . 
Nothing can be done ! gloomily replied the Emperor of the Winkies . 
But since Ozma refuses my army I will go myself to the Emerald City . 
The least I may do is to perish beside my beloved Ruler . 
How the Scarecrow Displayed His Wisdom This amazing news had saddened every heart and all were now anxious to return to the Emerald City and share Ozma's fate . 
So they started without loss of time , and as the road led past the Scarecrow's new mansion they determined to make a brief halt there and confer with him . 
The Scarecrow is probably the wisest man in all Oz , remarked the Tin Woodman , when they had started upon their journey . 
His brains are plentiful and of excellent quality , and often he has told me things I might never have thought of myself . 
I must say I rely a great deal upon the Scarecrow's brains in this emergency . 
The Tin Woodman rode on the front seat of the wagon , where Dorothy sat between him and the Wizard . 
Has the Scarecrow heard of Ozma's trouble ? asked the Captain General . 
I do not know , sir , was the reply . 
When I was a private , said Omby Amby , I was an excellent army , as I fully proved in our war against the Nomes . 
But now there is not a single private left in our army , since Ozma made me the Captain General , so there is no one to fight and defend our lovely Ruler . 
True , said the Wizard . 
The present army is composed only of officers , and the business of an officer is to order his men to fight . 
Since there are no men there can be no fighting . 
Poor Ozma ! whispered Dorothy , with tears in her sweet eyes . 
It's dreadful to think of all her lovely fairy country being destroyed . 
Do you think there would be any work for ME in Kansas ? asked the Tin Woodman . 
If you are hollow , they might use you in a canning factory , suggested Uncle Henry . 
But I can't see the use of your working for a living . 
You never eat or sleep or need a new suit of clothes . 
I was not thinking of myself , replied the Emperor , with dignity . 
I merely wondered if I could not help to support Dorothy and Ozma . 
The Scarecrow's new house was shaped like an immense ear of corn . 
The rows of kernels were made of solid gold , and the green upon which the ear stood upright was a mass of sparkling emeralds . 
Inside there were five stories , each story being a single room . 
The gardens around the mansion consisted of cornfields , and Dorothy acknowledged that the place was in all respects a very appropriate home for her good friend the Scarecrow . 
He would have been very happy here , I'm sure , she said , if only the Nome King had left us alone . 
But if Oz is destroyed of course this place will be destroyed too . 
Yes , replied the Tin Woodman , and also my beautiful tin castle , that has been my joy and pride . 
Jack Pumpkinhead's house will go too , remarked the Wizard , as well as Professor Wogglebug's Athletic College , and Ozma's royal palace , and all our other handsome buildings . 
Yes , Oz will indeed become a desert when the Nome King gets through with it , sighed Omby Amby . 
The Scarecrow came out to meet them and gave them all a hearty welcome . 
But why are you all so downcast ? Have you heard the news ? asked the Tin Woodman . 
No news to make me sad , replied the Scarecrow . 
Well , said the Scarecrow , it certainly looks bad for Ozma , and all of us . 
But I believe it is wrong to worry over anything before it happens . 
It is surely time enough to be sad when our country is despoiled and our people made slaves . 
So let us not deprive ourselves of the few happy hours remaining to us . 
Ah ! that is real wisdom , declared the Shaggy Man , approvingly . 
After we become really unhappy we shall regret these few hours that are left to us , unless we enjoy them to the utmost . 
Nevertheless , said the Scarecrow , I shall go with you to the Emerald City and offer Ozma my services . 
She says we can do nothing to oppose our enemies , announced the Tin Woodman . 
And doubtless she is right , sir , answered the Scarecrow . 
Still , she will appreciate our sympathy , and it is the duty of Ozma's friends to stand by her side when the final disaster occurs . 
He then led them into his queer mansion and showed them the beautiful rooms in all the five stories . 
The lower room was a grand reception hall , with a hand organ in one corner . 
This instrument the Scarecrow , when alone , could turn to amuse himself , as he was very fond of music . 
The walls were hung with white silk , upon which flocks of black crows were embroidered in black diamonds . 
Some of the chairs were made in the shape of big crows and upholstered with cushions of corn colored silk . 
The second story contained a fine banquet room , where the Scarecrow might entertain his guests , and the three stories above that were bed chambers exquisitely furnished and decorated . 
From these rooms , said the Scarecrow , proudly , one may obtain fine views of the surrounding cornfields . 
The corn I grow is always husky , and I call the ears my regiments , because they have so many kernels . 
Of course I cannot ride my cobs , but I really don't care shucks about that . 
Taken altogether , my farm will stack up with any in the neighborhood . 
The visitors partook of some light refreshment and then hurried away to resume the road to the Emerald City . 
The Scarecrow found a seat in the wagon between Omby Amby and the Shaggy Man , and his weight did not add much to the load because he was stuffed with straw . 
You will notice I have one oat field on my property , he remarked , as they drove away . 
Oat straw is , I have found , the best of all straws to re stuff myself with when my interior gets musty or out of shape . 
Are you able to re stuff yourself without help ? asked Aunt Em . 
I should think that after the straw was taken out of you there wouldn't be anything left but your clothes . 
You are almost correct , madam , he answered . 
My servants do the stuffing , under my direction . 
For my head , in which are my excellent brains , is a bag tied at the bottom . 
My face is neatly painted upon one side of the bag , as you may see . 
My head does not need re stuffing , as my body does , for all that it requires is to have the face touched up with fresh paint occasionally . 
It was not far from the Scarecrow's mansion to the farm of Jack Pumpkinhead , and when they arrived there both Uncle Henry and Aunt Em were much impressed . 
The farm was one vast pumpkin field , and some of the pumpkins were of enormous size . 
In one of them , which had been neatly hollowed out , Jack himself lived , and he declared that it was a very comfortable residence . 
The reason he grew so many pumpkins was in order that he might change his head as often as it became wrinkled or threatened to spoil . 
The pumpkin headed man welcomed his visitors joyfully and offered them several delicious pumpkin pies to eat . 
I don't indulge in pumpkin pies myself , for two reasons , he said . 
One reason is that were I to eat pumpkins I would become a cannibal , and the other reason is that I never eat , not being hollow inside . 
Very good reasons , agreed the Scarecrow . 
They told Jack Pumpkinhead of the dreadful news about the Nome King , and he decided to go with them to the Emerald City and help comfort Ozma . 
Dorothy's eyes were full of tears as she kissed the lovely Ruler of Oz , and she whispered to her Oh , Ozma , Ozma ! I'm SO sorry ! Ozma seemed surprised . 
Sorry for what , Dorothy ? she asked . 
For all your trouble about the Nome King , was the reply . 
Ozma laughed with genuine amusement . 
Why , that has not troubled me a bit , dear Princess , she replied . 
Then , looking around at the sad faces of her friends , she added Have you all been worrying about this tunnel ? We have ! they exclaimed in a chorus . 
Well , perhaps it is more serious than I imagined , admitted the fair Ruler but I haven't given the matter much thought . 
After dinner we will all meet together and talk it over . 
The Scarecrow , the Tin Woodman and Jack Pumpkinhead all sat at the dinner table , although none of them was made so he could eat . 
Usually they served to enliven the meal with their merry talk , but to night all seemed strangely silent and uneasy . 
As soon as the dinner was finished Ozma led the company to her own private room in which hung the Magic Picture . 
When they had seated themselves the Scarecrow was the first to speak . 
Is the Nome King's tunnel finished , Ozma ? he asked . 
It was completed to day , she replied . 
They have built it right under my palace grounds , and it ends in front of the Forbidden Fountain . 
Nothing but a crust of earth remains to separate our enemies from us , and when they march here , they will easily break through this crust and rush upon us . 
Who will assist the Nome King ? inquired the Scarecrow . 
The Whimsies , the Growleywogs and the Phanfasms , she replied . 
I watched to day in my Magic Picture the messengers whom the Nome King sent to all these people to summon them to assemble in his great caverns . 
Let us see what they are doing now , suggested the Tin Woodman . 
A wild and startling scene it was which the Oz people beheld . 
Before the Nome King stood the Chief of the Whimsies and the Grand Gallipoot of the Growleywogs , surrounded by their most skillful generals . 
Very fierce and powerful they looked , so that even the Nome King and General Guph , who stood beside his master , seemed a bit fearful in the presence of their allies . 
Now a still more formidable creature entered the cavern . 
The First and Foremost now appeared to all eyes in his hairy skin and the bear's head . 
What his real form was even Roquat did not know . 
I think we can hear what they are saying . 
So they kept still and listened . 
Is all ready ? demanded the First and Foremost , haughtily . 
The tunnel is finally completed , replied General Guph . 
How long will it take us to march to the Emerald City ? asked the Grand Gallipoot of the Growleywogs . 
If we start at midnight , replied the Nome King , we shall arrive at the Emerald City by daybreak . 
Then , while all the Oz people are sleeping , we will capture them and make them our slaves . 
After that we will destroy the city itself and march through the Land of Oz , burning and devastating as we go . 
Good ! cried the First and Foremost . 
When we get through with Oz it will be a desert wilderness . 
Ozma shall be my slave . 
She shall be MY slave ! shouted the Grand Gallipoot , angrily . 
We'll decide that by and by , said King Roquat hastily . 
Don't let us quarrel now , friends . 
First let us conquer Oz , and then we will divide the spoils of war in a satisfactory manner . 
The First and Foremost smiled wickedly but he only said I and my Phanfasms go first , for nothing on earth can oppose our power . 
They all agreed to that , knowing the Phanfasms to be the mightiest of the combined forces . 
King Roquat now invited them to attend a banquet he had prepared , where they might occupy themselves in eating and drinking until midnight arrived . 
As they had now seen and heard all of the plot against them that they cared to , Ozma allowed her Magic Picture to fade away . 
Then she turned to her friends and said Our enemies will be here sooner than I expected . 
What do you advise me to do ? It is now too late to assemble our people , said the Tin Woodman , despondently . 
If you had allowed me to arm and drill my Winkies , we might have put up a good fight and destroyed many of our enemies before we were conquered . 
The Munchkins are good fighters , too , said Omby Amby and so are the Gillikins . 
But I do not wish to fight , declared Ozma , firmly . 
No one has the right to destroy any living creatures , however evil they may be , or to hurt them or make them unhappy . 
I will not fight , even to save my kingdom . 
The Nome King is not so particular , remarked the Scarecrow . 
He intends to destroy us all and ruin our beautiful country . 
Because the Nome King intends to do evil is no excuse for my doing the same , replied Ozma . 
Self preservation is the first law of nature , quoted the Shaggy Man . 
True , she said , readily . 
I would like to discover a plan to save ourselves without fighting . 
That seemed a hopeless task to them , but realizing that Ozma was determined not to fight , they tried to think of some means that might promise escape . 
Couldn't we bribe our enemies , by giving them a lot of emeralds and gold ? asked Jack Pumpkinhead . 
No , because they believe they are able to take everything we have , replied the Ruler . 
I have thought of something , said Dorothy . 
What is it , dear ? asked Ozma . 
Let us use the Magic Belt to wish all of us in Kansas . 
We will put some emeralds in our pockets , and can sell them in Topeka for enough to pay off the mortgage on Uncle Henry's farm . 
Then we can all live together and be happy . 
A clever idea ! exclaimed the Scarecrow . 
Kansas is a very good country . 
I've been there , said the Shaggy Man . 
That seems to me an excellent plan , approved the Tin Woodman . 
No ! said Ozma , decidedly . 
Never will I desert my people and leave them to so cruel a fate . 
Quite right , asserted the Scarecrow , sighing . 
I will remain with you . 
And so will I , declared the Tin Woodman and the Shaggy Man and Jack Pumpkinhead , in turn . 
Tiktok , the machine man , also said he intended to stand by Ozma . 
For , said he , I should be of no use at all in Kan sas . 
For my part , announced Dorothy , gravely , if the Ruler of Oz must not desert her people , a Princess of Oz has no right to run away , either . 
I've been a slave all my life , Aunt Em replied , with considerable cheerfulness , and so has Henry . 
I guess we won't go back to Kansas , anyway . 
I'd rather take my chances with the rest of you . 
Ozma smiled upon them all gratefully . 
There is no need to despair just yet , she said . 
I'll get up early to morrow morning and be at the Forbidden Fountain when the fierce warriors break through the crust of the earth . 
I will speak to them pleasantly and perhaps they won't be so very bad , after all . 
Why do they call it the Forbidden Fountain ? asked Dorothy , thoughtfully . 
Don't you know , dear ? returned Ozma , surprised . 
But I never knew WHY they were forbidden . 
The water seems clear and sparkling and it bubbles up in a golden basin all the time . 
That water , declared Ozma , gravely , is the most dangerous thing in all the Land of Oz . 
It is the Water of Oblivion . 
What does that mean ? asked Dorothy . 
Whoever drinks at the Forbidden Fountain at once forgets everything he has ever known , Ozma asserted . 
It wouldn't be a bad way to forget our troubles , suggested Uncle Henry . 
That is true but you would forget everything else , and become as ignorant as a baby , returned Ozma . 
Does it make one crazy ? asked Dorothy . 
No it only makes one forget , replied the girl Ruler . 
It is said that once long , long ago a wicked King ruled Oz , and made himself and all his people very miserable and unhappy . 
So Glinda , the Good Sorceress , placed this fountain here , and the King drank of its water and forgot all his wickedness . 
His mind became innocent and vacant , and when he learned the things of life again they were all good things . 
But the people remembered how wicked their King had been , and were still afraid of him . 
Therefore , he made them all drink of the Water of Oblivion and forget everything they had known , so that they became as simple and innocent as their King . 
After that , they all grew wise together , and their wisdom was good , so that peace and happiness reigned in the land . 
Finally the Scarecrow's painted face took on a broad smile that stretched the cloth as far as it would go . 
We never needed saving more than we do just now . 
Do you mean to say you can save us from those awful Phanfasms , and Growleywogs and Whimsies ? asked Dorothy eagerly . 
I'm sure of it , my dear , asserted the Scarecrow , still smiling genially . 
Tell us how ! cried the Tin Woodman . 
Not now , said the Scarecrow . 
You may all go to bed , and I advise you to forget your worries just as completely as if you had drunk of the Water of Oblivion in the Forbidden Fountain . 
So they went away and let the Scarecrow and Ozma alone but Dorothy could not sleep a wink all night . 
He is only a Scarecrow , she said to herself , and I'm not sure that his mixed brains are as clever as he thinks they are . 
But she knew that if the Scarecrow's plan failed they were all lost so she tried to have faith in him . 
How the Fierce Warriors Invaded Oz The Nome King and his terrible allies sat at the banquet table until midnight . 
There was much quarreling between the Growleywogs and Phanfasms , and one of the wee headed Whimsies got angry at General Guph and choked him until he nearly stopped breathing . 
Yet no one was seriously hurt , and the Nome King felt much relieved when the clock struck twelve and they all sprang up and seized their weapons . 
Aha ! shouted the First and Foremost . 
And he knew his power was sufficient to enable him to do all these things easily . 
Next marched into the tunnel the army of gigantic Growleywogs , with their Grand Gallipoot at their head . 
They were dreadful beings , indeed , and longed to get to Oz that they might begin to pilfer and destroy . 
The Grand Gallipoot was a little afraid of the First and Foremost , but had a cunning plan to murder or destroy that powerful being and secure the wealth of Oz for himself . 
Mighty little of the plunder would the Nome King get , thought the Grand Gallipoot . 
The Chief of the Whimsies now marched his false headed forces into the tunnel . 
In his wicked little head was a plot to destroy both the First and Foremost and the Grand Gallipoot . 
After all his dangerous allies had marched into the tunnel the Nome King and General Guph started to follow them , at the head of fifty thousand Nomes , all fully armed . 
Guph , said the King , those creatures ahead of us mean mischief . 
They intend to get everything for themselves and leave us nothing . 
I know , replied the General but they are not as clever as they think they are . 
When you get the Magic Belt you must at once wish the Whimsies and Growleywogs and Phanfasms all back into their own countries and the Belt will surely take them there . 
Good ! cried the King . 
An excellent plan , Guph . 
While they are conquering Oz I'll get the Magic Belt , and then only the Nomes will remain to ravage the country . 
So you see there was only one thing that all were agreed upon that Oz should be destroyed . 
On , on , on the vast ranks of invaders marched , filling the tunnel from side to side . 
With a steady tramp , tramp , they advanced , every step taking them nearer to the beautiful Emerald City . 
Nothing can save the Land of Oz ! thought the First and Foremost , scowling until his bear face was as black as the tunnel . 
The Emerald City is as good as destroyed already ! muttered the Grand Gallipoot , shaking his war club fiercely . 
In a few hours Oz will be a desert ! said the Chief of the Whimsies , with an evil laugh . 
My dear Guph , remarked the Nome King to his General , at last my vengeance upon Ozma of Oz and her people is about to be accomplished . 
You are right ! declared the General . 
And now the First and Foremost , who was in advance and nearing the Emerald City , began to cough and to sneeze . 
This tunnel is terribly dusty , he growled , angrily . 
I'll punish that Nome King for not having it swept clean . 
My throat and eyes are getting full of dust and I'm as thirsty as a fish ! The Grand Gallipoot was coughing too , and his throat was parched and dry . 
What a dusty place ! he cried . 
I'll be glad when we reach Oz , where we can get a drink . 
Who has any water ? asked the Whimsie Chief , gasping and choking . 
But none of his followers carried a drop of water , so he hastened on to get through the dusty tunnel to the Land of Oz . 
Where did all this dust come from ? demanded General Guph , trying hard to swallow but finding his throat so dry he couldn't . 
I don't know , answered the Nome King . 
I've been in the tunnel every day while it was being built , but I never noticed any dust before . 
Let's hurry ! cried the General . 
I'd give half the gold in Oz for a drink of water . 
The dust grew thicker and thicker , and the throats and eyes and noses of the invaders were filled with it . 
But not one halted or turned back . 
They hurried forward more fierce and vengeful than ever . 
How They Drank at the Forbidden Fountain The Scarecrow had no need to sleep neither had the Tin Woodman or Tiktok or Jack Pumpkinhead . 
So they all wandered out into the palace grounds and stood beside the sparkling water of the Forbidden Fountain until daybreak . 
During this time they indulged in occasional conversation . 
Nothing could make me forget what I know , remarked the Scarecrow , gazing into the fountain , for I cannot drink the Water of Oblivion or water of any kind . 
And I am glad that this is so , for I consider my wisdom unexcelled . 
You are cer tain ly ve ry wise , agreed Tiktok . 
For my part , I can on ly think by ma chin er y , so I do not pre tend to know as much as you do . 
My tin brains are very bright , but that is all I claim for them , said Nick Chopper , modestly . 
Yet I do not aspire to being very wise , for I have noticed that the happiest people are those who do not let their brains oppress them . 
Mine never worry me , Jack Pumpkinhead acknowledged . 
There are many seeds of thought in my head , but they do not sprout easily . 
I am glad that it is so , for if I occupied my days in thinking I should have no time for anything else . 
In this cheery mood they passed the hours until the first golden streaks of dawn appeared in the sky . 
Then Ozma joined them , as fresh and lovely as ever and robed in one of her prettiest gowns . 
Our enemies have not yet arrived , said the Scarecrow , after greeting affectionately the sweet and girlish Ruler . 
They will soon be here , she said , for I have just glanced at my Magic Picture , and have seen them coughing and choking with the dust in the tunnel . 
Oh , is there dust in the tunnel ? asked the Tin Woodman . 
Yes Ozma placed it there by means of the Magic Belt , explained the Scarecrow , with one of his broad smiles . 
Then Dorothy came to them , Uncle Henry and Aunt Em following close after her . 
The little girl's eyes were heavy because she had had a sleepless and anxious night . 
Toto walked by her side , but the little dog's spirits were very much subdued . 
Billina , who was always up by daybreak , was not long in joining the group by the fountain . 
The Wizard and the Shaggy Man next arrived , and soon after appeared Omby Amby , dressed in his best uniform . 
Let us all stand on the other side of the Fountain and watch to see what happens . 
At once they followed her suggestion and moved around the fountain of the Water of Oblivion . 
As the leader sprang forward his gleaming eyes caught the play of the fountain and he rushed toward it and drank eagerly of the sparkling water . 
Many of the other Phanfasms drank , too , in order to clear their dry and dusty throats . 
Then they stood around and looked at one another with simple , wondering smiles . 
But now the Grand Gallipoot arrived , rushing from the tunnel with a hoarse cry of mingled rage and thirst . 
He too saw the fountain and hastened to drink of its forbidden waters . 
They had forgotten all their enmity against Ozma and against Oz . 
They had even forgotten who they themselves were , or why they were in this strange and beautiful country . 
As for the Nome King , they did not recognize him , and wondered who he was . 
The sun came up and sent its flood of silver rays to light the faces of the invaders . 
The frowns and scowls and evil looks were all gone . 
Even the most monstrous of the creatures there assembled smiled innocently and seemed light hearted and content merely to be alive . 
Not so with Roquat , the Nome King . 
He had not drunk from the Forbidden Fountain and all his former rage against Ozma and Dorothy now inflamed him as fiercely as ever . 
The sight of General Guph babbling like a happy child and playing with his hands in the cool waters of the fountain astonished and maddened Red Roquat . 
But the Scarecrow suspected what was in the King's mind and spoke a word to the Tin Woodman . 
Together they ran at Roquat and grabbing him up tossed him into the great basin of the fountain . 
The Nome King's body was round as a ball , and it bobbed up and down in the Water of Oblivion while he spluttered and screamed with fear lest he should drown . 
Ozma and Dorothy could not refrain from laughing to see their dreaded enemies become as harmless as babies . 
There was no danger now that Oz would be destroyed . 
The only question remaining to solve was how to get rid of this horde of intruders . 
The Shaggy Man kindly pulled the Nome King out of the fountain and set him upon his thin legs . 
Roquat was dripping wet , but he chattered and laughed and wanted to drink more of the water . 
No thought of injuring any person was now in his mind . 
Who are you , my dear ? My name is Ozma , she said and your name is Roquat . 
Oh , is it ? he replied , seeming pleased . 
Yes you are King of the Nomes , she said . 
Ah I wonder what the Nomes are ! returned the King , as if puzzled . 
They are underground elves , and that tunnel over there is full of them , she answered . 
The Nome King was much pleased to learn this , for he had forgotten he had a cavern . 
The Wizard went to General Guph , who was trying to count his fingers , and told him to follow the Nome King , who was his master . 
Guph meekly obeyed , and so all the Nomes quitted the Land of Oz forever . 
But in all other respects they were perfectly harmless and played together like children or gazed with pleasure upon the pretty sights of the royal gardens . 
I wish all these strange people the Whimsies and the Growleywogs and the Phanfasms safe back in their own homes ! she said . 
It all happened in a twinkling , for of course the wish was no sooner spoken than it was granted . 
All the hosts of the invaders were gone , and only the trampled grass showed that they had ever been in the Land of Oz . 
No one was hurt , said the Wizard , delightedly . 
And no one hurt us , added Aunt Em . 
But , best of all , said Dorothy , the wicked people have all forgotten their wickedness , and will not wish to hurt any one after this . 
True , Princess , declared the Shaggy Man . 
It seems to me that to have reformed all those evil characters is more important than to have saved Oz . 
Nevertheless , remarked the Scarecrow , I am glad Oz is saved . 
I can now go back to my new mansion and live happily . 
And I am glad and grateful that my pumpkin farm is saved , said Jack . 
For my part , added the Tin Woodman , I cannot express my joy that my lovely tin castle is not to be demolished by wicked enemies . 
Still , said Tiktok , o ther en e mies may come to Oz some day . 
Why do you allow your clock work brains to interrupt our joy ? asked Omby Amby , frowning at the machine man . 
I say what I am wound up to say , answered Tiktok . 
And you are right , declared Ozma . 
I myself have been thinking of this very idea , and it seems to me there are entirely too many ways for people to get to the Land of Oz . 
We used to think the deadly desert that surrounds us was enough protection but that is no longer the case . 
The Wizard and Dorothy have both come here through the air , and I am told the earth people have invented airships that can fly anywhere they wish them to go . 
Why , sometimes they do , and sometimes they don't , asserted Dorothy . 
That is true enough , agreed the Wizard . 
Also the desert fails to protect us in other ways , Ozma went on , thoughtfully . 
Johnny Dooit once made a sand boat that sailed across it , and the Nome King made a tunnel under it . 
How will you do that ? asked the Scarecrow . 
I do not know but in some way I am sure it can be accomplished . 
To morrow I will make a journey to the castle of Glinda the Good , and ask her advice . 
May I go with you ? asked Dorothy , eagerly . 
Of course , my dear Princess and I also invite any of our friends here who would like to undertake the journey . 
So Ozma gave orders to her servants to prepare for the journey on the morrow . 
Early the following morning a gay cavalcade set out to visit the famous Sorceress , Glinda the Good . 
Ozma and Dorothy rode in a chariot drawn by the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger , while the Sawhorse drew the red wagon in which rode the rest of the party . 
With hearts light and free from care they traveled merrily along through the lovely and fascinating Land of Oz , and in good season reached the stately castle in which resided the Sorceress . 
Glinda knew that they were coming . 
I have been reading about you in my Magic Book , she said , as she greeted them in her gracious way . 
What is your Magic Book like ? inquired Aunt Em , curiously . 
It is a record of everything that happens , replied the Sorceress . 
As soon as an event takes place , anywhere in the world , it is immediately found printed in my Magic Book . 
So when I read its pages I am well informed . 
Did it tell you how our enemies drank the Water of 'Blivion ? asked Dorothy . 
Yes , my dear it told all about it . 
And also it told me you were all coming to my castle , and why . 
And while you were on your journey I have thought of a way to accomplish your desire . 
For it seems to me unwise to allow too many outside people to come here . 
Let us make it impossible for any one ever to communicate with us in any way , after this . 
Then we may live peacefully and contentedly . 
Your advice is wise , returned Ozma . 
I thank you , Glinda , for your promise to assist me . 
But how can you do it ? asked Dorothy . 
How can you keep every one from ever finding Oz ? By making our country invisible to all eyes but our own , replied the Sorceress , smiling . 
I agree with you , said the Ruler of Oz . 
Won't it make any difference to us ? asked Dorothy , doubtfully . 
No , my dear , Glinda answered , assuringly . 
We shall still be able to see each other and everything in the Land of Oz . 
It won't affect us at all but those who fly through the air over our country will look down and see nothing at all . 
Those who come to the edge of the desert , or try to cross it , will catch no glimpse of Oz , or know in what direction it lies . 
No one will try to tunnel to us again because we cannot be seen and therefore cannot be found . 
In other words , the Land of Oz will entirely disappear from the knowledge of the rest of the world . 
That's all right , said Dorothy , cheerfully . 
You may make Oz invis'ble as soon as you please , for all I care . 
It is already invisible , Glinda stated . 
I knew Ozma's wishes , and performed the Magic Spell before you arrived . 
Ozma seized the hand of the Sorceress and pressed it gratefully . 
Thank you ! she said . 
BUT TOTO AND I WILL ALWAYS LOVE YOU AND ALL THE OTHER CHILDREN WHO LOVE US . 
This seemed to me too bad , at first , for Oz is a very interesting fairyland . 
So good luck to little Dorothy and her companions . 
