Sixteen years had Miss Taylor been in Mr. Woodhouse's family , less as a governess than a friend , very fond of both daughters , but particularly of Emma . 
Between them it was more the intimacy of sisters . 
The danger , however , was at present so unperceived , that they did not by any means rank as misfortunes with her . 
Sorrow came a gentle sorrow but not at all in the shape of any disagreeable consciousness . 
It was Miss Taylor's loss which first brought grief . 
It was on the wedding day of this beloved friend that Emma first sat in mournful thought of any continuance . 
The wedding over , and the bride people gone , her father and herself were left to dine together , with no prospect of a third to cheer a long evening . 
Her father composed himself to sleep after dinner , as usual , and she had then only to sit and think of what she had lost . 
The event had every promise of happiness for her friend . 
The want of Miss Taylor would be felt every hour of every day . 
She dearly loved her father , but he was no companion for her . 
He could not meet her in conversation , rational or playful . 
The Woodhouses were first in consequence there . 
All looked up to them . 
It was a melancholy change and Emma could not but sigh over it , and wish for impossible things , till her father awoke , and made it necessary to be cheerful . 
He was a nervous man , easily depressed fond of every body that he was used to , and hating to part with them hating change of every kind . 
What a pity it is that Mr. Weston ever thought of her ! I cannot agree with you , papa you know I cannot . 
And you have never any odd humours , my dear . 
My dear , how am I to get so far ? Randalls is such a distance . 
I could not walk half so far . 
No , papa , nobody thought of your walking . 
We must go in the carriage , to be sure . 
You know we have settled all that already . 
We talked it all over with Mr. Weston last night . 
And as for James , you may be very sure he will always like going to Randalls , because of his daughter's being housemaid there . 
I only doubt whether he will ever take us anywhere else . 
That was your doing , papa . 
You got Hannah that good place . 
Nobody thought of Hannah till you mentioned her James is so obliged to you ! I am very glad I did think of her . 
I am sure she will be an excellent servant and it will be a great comfort to poor Miss Taylor to have somebody about her that she is used to see . 
Whenever James goes over to see his daughter , you know , she will be hearing of us . 
He will be able to tell her how we all are . 
The backgammon table was placed but a visitor immediately afterwards walked in and made it unnecessary . 
He had returned to a late dinner , after some days' absence , and now walked up to Hartfield to say that all were well in Brunswick Square . 
It was a happy circumstance , and animated Mr. Woodhouse for some time . 
Mr. Knightley had a cheerful manner , which always did him good and his many inquiries after poor Isabella and her children were answered most satisfactorily . 
When this was over , Mr. Woodhouse gratefully observed , It is very kind of you , Mr. Knightley , to come out at this late hour to call upon us . 
I am afraid you must have had a shocking walk . 
Not at all , sir . 
It is a beautiful moonlight night and so mild that I must draw back from your great fire . 
But you must have found it very damp and dirty . 
I wish you may not catch cold . 
Dirty , sir ! Look at my shoes . 
Not a speck on them . 
Well ! that is quite surprising , for we have had a vast deal of rain here . 
It rained dreadfully hard for half an hour while we were at breakfast . 
I wanted them to put off the wedding . 
By the bye I have not wished you joy . 
Being pretty well aware of what sort of joy you must both be feeling , I have been in no hurry with my congratulations but I hope it all went off tolerably well . 
How did you all behave ? Who cried most ? Ah ! poor Miss Taylor ! 'Tis a sad business . 
Poor Mr. and Miss Woodhouse , if you please but I cannot possibly say poor Miss Taylor . 
Especially when one of those two is such a fanciful , troublesome creature ! said Emma playfully . 
That is what you have in your head , I know and what you would certainly say if my father were not by . 
I believe it is very true , my dear , indeed , said Mr. Woodhouse , with a sigh . 
I am afraid I am sometimes very fanciful and troublesome . 
My dearest papa ! You do not think I could mean you , or suppose Mr. Knightley to mean you . 
What a horrible idea ! Oh no ! I meant only myself . 
Mr. Knightley loves to find fault with me , you know in a joke it is all a joke . 
We always say what we like to one another . 
Emma knows I never flatter her , said Mr. Knightley , but I meant no reflection on any body . 
Miss Taylor has been used to have two persons to please she will now have but one . 
The chances are that she must be a gainer . 
Well , said Emma , willing to let it pass you want to hear about the wedding and I shall be happy to tell you , for we all behaved charmingly . 
Every body was punctual , every body in their best looks not a tear , and hardly a long face to be seen . 
Oh no we all felt that we were going to be only half a mile apart , and were sure of meeting every day . 
Dear Emma bears every thing so well , said her father . 
But , Mr. Knightley , she is really very sorry to lose poor Miss Taylor , and I am sure she will miss her more than she thinks for . 
Emma turned away her head , divided between tears and smiles . 
It is impossible that Emma should not miss such a companion , said Mr. Knightley . 
Every friend of Miss Taylor must be glad to have her so happily married . 
And you have forgotten one matter of joy to me , said Emma , and a very considerable one that I made the match myself . 
Mr. Knightley shook his head at her . 
Her father fondly replied , Ah ! my dear , I wish you would not make matches and foretell things , for whatever you say always comes to pass . 
Pray do not make any more matches . 
I promise you to make none for myself , papa but I must , indeed , for other people . 
It is the greatest amusement in the world ! And after such success , you know ! Every body said that Mr. Weston would never marry again . 
Oh no ! Mr. Weston certainly would never marry again . 
Some people even talked of a promise to his wife on her deathbed , and others of the son and the uncle not letting him . 
All manner of solemn nonsense was talked on the subject , but I believed none of it . 
I planned the match from that hour and when such success has blessed me in this instance , dear papa , you cannot think that I shall leave off match making . 
I do not understand what you mean by success , said Mr. Knightley . 
Your time has been properly and delicately spent , if you have been endeavouring for the last four years to bring about this marriage . 
And have you never known the pleasure and triumph of a lucky guess ? I pity you . 
I thought you cleverer for , depend upon it a lucky guess is never merely luck . 
There is always some talent in it . 
And as to my poor word success , which you quarrel with , I do not know that I am so entirely without any claim to it . 
You have drawn two pretty pictures but I think there may be a third a something between the do nothing and the do all . 
If I had not promoted Mr. Weston's visits here , and given many little encouragements , and smoothed many little matters , it might not have come to any thing after all . 
I think you must know Hartfield enough to comprehend that . 
A straightforward , open hearted man like Weston , and a rational , unaffected woman like Miss Taylor , may be safely left to manage their own concerns . 
You are more likely to have done harm to yourself , than good to them , by interference . 
Emma never thinks of herself , if she can do good to others , rejoined Mr. Woodhouse , understanding but in part . 
But , my dear , pray do not make any more matches they are silly things , and break up one's family circle grievously . 
Only one more , papa only for Mr. Elton . 
Poor Mr. Elton ! You like Mr. Elton , papa , I must look about for a wife for him . 
Mr. Elton is a very pretty young man , to be sure , and a very good young man , and I have a great regard for him . 
But if you want to shew him any attention , my dear , ask him to come and dine with us some day . 
That will be a much better thing . 
I dare say Mr. Knightley will be so kind as to meet him . 
Invite him to dinner , Emma , and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken , but leave him to chuse his own wife . 
Depend upon it , a man of six or seven and twenty can take care of himself . 
CHAPTER II Mr. Weston was a native of Highbury , and born of a respectable family , which for the last two or three generations had been rising into gentility and property . 
It was an unsuitable connexion , and did not produce much happiness . 
From the expense of the child , however , he was soon relieved . 
A complete change of life became desirable . 
He quitted the militia and engaged in trade , having brothers already established in a good way in London , which afforded him a favourable opening . 
It was a concern which brought just employment enough . 
It was most unlikely , therefore , that he should ever want his father's assistance . 
His father had no apprehension of it . 
He was looked on as sufficiently belonging to the place to make his merits and prospects a kind of common concern . 
His coming to visit his father had been often talked of but never achieved . 
Now , upon his father's marriage , it was very generally proposed , as a most proper attention , that the visit should take place . 
There was not a dissentient voice on the subject , either when Mrs. Perry drank tea with Mrs. and Miss Bates , or when Mrs. and Miss Bates returned the visit . 
Now was the time for Mr. Frank Churchill to come among them and the hope strengthened when it was understood that he had written to his new mother on the occasion . 
For a few days , every morning visit in Highbury included some mention of the handsome letter Mrs. Weston had received . 
I suppose you have heard of the handsome letter Mr. Frank Churchill has written to Mrs. Weston ? I understand it was a very handsome letter , indeed . 
Mr. Woodhouse told me of it . 
Mr. Woodhouse saw the letter , and he says he never saw such a handsome letter in his life . 
It was , indeed , a highly prized letter . 
But never did she go without Mr. Woodhouse's giving a gentle sigh , and saying , Ah , poor Miss Taylor ! She would be very glad to stay . 
There was no recovering Miss Taylor nor much likelihood of ceasing to pity her but a few weeks brought some alleviation to Mr. Woodhouse . 
His own stomach could bear nothing rich , and he could never believe other people to be different from himself . 
He had been at the pains of consulting Mr. Perry , the apothecary , on the subject . 
that wedding cake might certainly disagree with many perhaps with most people , unless taken moderately . 
There was a strange rumour in Highbury of all the little Perrys being seen with a slice of Mrs. Weston's wedding cake in their hands but Mr. Woodhouse would never believe it . 
CHAPTER III Mr. Woodhouse was fond of society in his own way . 
Fortunately for him , Highbury , including Randalls in the same parish , and Donwell Abbey in the parish adjoining , the seat of Mr. Knightley , comprehended many such . 
Had it taken place only once a year , it would have been a grievance . 
Mrs. Bates , the widow of a former vicar of Highbury , was a very old lady , almost past every thing but tea and quadrille . 
Her daughter enjoyed a most uncommon degree of popularity for a woman neither young , handsome , rich , nor married . 
She had never boasted either beauty or cleverness . 
And yet she was a happy woman , and a woman whom no one named without good will . 
It was her own universal good will and contented temper which worked such wonders . 
The simplicity and cheerfulness of her nature , her contented and grateful spirit , were a recommendation to every body , and a mine of felicity to herself . 
She was a great talker upon little matters , which exactly suited Mr. Woodhouse , full of trivial communications and harmless gossip . 
It was no wonder that a train of twenty young couple now walked after her to church . 
A very gracious invitation was returned , and the evening no longer dreaded by the fair mistress of the mansion . 
Harriet Smith was the natural daughter of somebody . 
Somebody had placed her , several years back , at Mrs. Goddard's school , and somebody had lately raised her from the condition of scholar to that of parlour boarder . 
This was all that was generally known of her history . 
She was a very pretty girl , and her beauty happened to be of a sort which Emma particularly admired . 
Those soft blue eyes , and all those natural graces , should not be wasted on the inferior society of Highbury and its connexions . 
The acquaintance she had already formed were unworthy of her . 
The friends from whom she had just parted , though very good sort of people , must be doing her harm . 
She would notice her she would improve her she would detach her from her bad acquaintance , and introduce her into good society she would form her opinions and her manners . 
It would be an interesting , and certainly a very kind undertaking highly becoming her own situation in life , her leisure , and powers . 
Upon such occasions poor Mr. Woodhouses feelings were in sad warfare . 
An egg boiled very soft is not unwholesome . 
Serle understands boiling an egg better than any body . 
Miss Bates , let Emma help you to a little bit of tart a very little bit . 
Ours are all apple tarts . 
You need not be afraid of unwholesome preserves here . 
I do not advise the custard . 
Emma allowed her father to talk but supplied her visitors in a much more satisfactory style , and on the present evening had particular pleasure in sending them away happy . 
The happiness of Miss Smith was quite equal to her intentions . 
As a walking companion , Emma had very early foreseen how useful she might find her . 
In that respect Mrs. Weston's loss had been important . 
But in every respect , as she saw more of her , she approved her , and was confirmed in all her kind designs . 
Altogether she was quite convinced of Harriet Smith's being exactly the young friend she wanted exactly the something which her home required . 
Such a friend as Mrs. Weston was out of the question . 
Two such could never be granted . 
Two such she did not want . 
It was quite a different sort of thing , a sentiment distinct and independent . 
Mrs. Weston was the object of a regard which had its basis in gratitude and esteem . 
Harriet would be loved as one to whom she could be useful . 
For Mrs. Weston there was nothing to be done for Harriet every thing . 
Her first attempts at usefulness were in an endeavour to find out who were the parents , but Harriet could not tell . 
She was ready to tell every thing in her power , but on this subject questions were vain . 
Emma was obliged to fancy what she liked but she could never believe that in the same situation she should not have discovered the truth . 
She had been satisfied to hear and believe just what Mrs. Goddard chose to tell her and looked no farther . 
For some time she was amused , without thinking beyond the immediate cause but as she came to understand the family better , other feelings arose . 
With this inspiriting notion , her questions increased in number and meaning and she particularly led Harriet to talk more of Mr. Martin , and there was evidently no dislike to it . 
He had his shepherd's son into the parlour one night on purpose to sing to her . 
She was very fond of singing . 
He could sing a little himself . 
She believed he was very clever , and understood every thing . 
He had a very fine flock , and , while she was with them , he had been bid more for his wool than any body in the country . 
She believed every body spoke well of him . 
His mother and sisters were very fond of him . 
that it was impossible for any body to be a better son , and therefore she was sure , whenever he married , he would make a good husband . 
Not that she wanted him to marry . 
She was in no hurry at all . 
Well done , Mrs. Martin ! thought Emma . 
You know what you are about . 
And when she had come away , Mrs. Martin was so very kind as to send Mrs. Goddard a beautiful goose the finest goose Mrs. Goddard had ever seen . 
Mrs. Goddard had dressed it on a Sunday , and asked all the three teachers , Miss Nash , and Miss Prince , and Miss Richardson , to sup with her . 
He reads the Agricultural Reports , and some other books that lay in one of the window seats but he reads all them to himself . 
But sometimes of an evening , before we went to cards , he would read something aloud out of the Elegant Extracts , very entertaining . 
And I know he has read the Vicar of Wakefield . 
He never read the Romance of the Forest , nor The Children of the Abbey . 
He had never heard of such books before I mentioned them , but he is determined to get them now as soon as ever he can . 
The next question was What sort of looking man is Mr. Martin ? Oh ! not handsome not at all handsome . 
I thought him very plain at first , but I do not think him so plain now . 
One does not , you know , after a time . 
But did you never see him ? He is in Highbury every now and then , and he is sure to ride through every week in his way to Kingston . 
He has passed you very often . 
That may be , and I may have seen him fifty times , but without having any idea of his name . 
A young farmer , whether on horseback or on foot , is the very last sort of person to raise my curiosity . 
The yeomanry are precisely the order of people with whom I feel I can have nothing to do . 
A degree or two lower , and a creditable appearance might interest me I might hope to be useful to their families in some way or other . 
But a farmer can need none of my help , and is , therefore , in one sense , as much above my notice as in every other he is below it . 
Oh yes ! It is not likely you should ever have observed him but he knows you very well indeed I mean by sight . 
I have no doubt of his being a very respectable young man . 
I know , indeed , that he is so , and , as such , wish him well . 
That is too young to settle . 
His mother is perfectly right not to be in a hurry . 
They seem very comfortable as they are , and if she were to take any pains to marry him , she would probably repent it . 
Six years hence , if he could meet with a good sort of young woman in the same rank as his own , with a little money , it might be very desirable . 
Mr. Martin , I imagine , has his fortune entirely to make cannot be at all beforehand with the world . 
To be sure , so it is . 
But they live very comfortably . 
They have no indoors man , else they do not want for any thing and Mrs. Martin talks of taking a boy another year . 
The misfortune of your birth ought to make you particularly careful as to your associates . 
Yes , to be sure , I suppose there are . 
But while I visit at Hartfield , and you are so kind to me , Miss Woodhouse , I am not afraid of what any body can do . 
You understand the force of influence pretty well , Harriet but I would have you so firmly established in good society , as to be independent even of Hartfield and Miss Woodhouse . 
Not that I think Mr. Martin would ever marry any body but what had had some education and been very well brought up . 
However , I do not mean to set up my opinion against your's and I am sure I shall not wish for the acquaintance of his wife . 
But if he marries a very ignorant , vulgar woman , certainly I had better not visit her , if I can help it . 
Emma watched her through the fluctuations of this speech , and saw no alarming symptoms of love . 
They met Mr. Martin the very next day , as they were walking on the Donwell road . 
He was on foot , and after looking very respectfully at her , looked with most unfeigned satisfaction at her companion . 
Harriet was not insensible of manner she had voluntarily noticed her father's gentleness with admiration as well as wonder . 
Mr. Martin looked as if he did not know what manner was . 
Only think of our happening to meet him ! How very odd ! It was quite a chance , he said , that he had not gone round by Randalls . 
He did not think we ever walked this road . 
He thought we walked towards Randalls most days . 
He has not been able to get the Romance of the Forest yet . 
He was so busy the last time he was at Kingston that he quite forgot it , but he goes again to morrow . 
I had no right to expect much , and I did not expect much but I had no idea that he could be so very clownish , so totally without air . 
I had imagined him , I confess , a degree or two nearer gentility . 
To be sure , said Harriet , in a mortified voice , he is not so genteel as real gentlemen . 
At Hartfield , you have had very good specimens of well educated , well bred men . 
Certainly , he is not like Mr. Knightley . 
He has not such a fine air and way of walking as Mr. Knightley . 
I see the difference plain enough . 
But Mr. Knightley is so very fine a man ! Mr. Knightley's air is so remarkably good that it is not fair to compare Mr. Martin with him . 
You might not see one in a hundred with gentleman so plainly written as in Mr. Knightley . 
But he is not the only gentleman you have been lately used to . 
What say you to Mr. Weston and Mr. Elton ? Compare Mr. Martin with either of them . 
Compare their manner of carrying themselves of walking of speaking of being silent . 
You must see the difference . 
Oh yes ! there is a great difference . 
But Mr. Weston is almost an old man . 
Mr. Weston must be between forty and fifty . 
Which makes his good manners the more valuable . 
What is passable in youth is detestable in later age . 
Mr. Martin is now awkward and abrupt what will he be at Mr. Weston's time of life ? There is no saying , indeed , replied Harriet rather solemnly . 
But there may be pretty good guessing . 
He will be a completely gross , vulgar farmer , totally inattentive to appearances , and thinking of nothing but profit and loss . 
Will he , indeed ? That will be very bad . 
How much his business engrosses him already is very plain from the circumstance of his forgetting to inquire for the book you recommended . 
He was a great deal too full of the market to think of any thing else which is just as it should be , for a thriving man . 
I wonder he did not remember the book was all Harriet's answer , and spoken with a degree of grave displeasure which Emma thought might be safely left to itself . 
She , therefore , said no more for some time . 
Her next beginning was , In one respect , perhaps , Mr. Elton's manners are superior to Mr. Knightley's or Mr. Weston's . 
They might be more safely held up as a pattern . 
On the contrary , I think a young man might be very safely recommended to take Mr. Elton as a model . 
Mr. Elton is good humoured , cheerful , obliging , and gentle . 
He seems to me to be grown particularly gentle of late . 
If he means any thing , it must be to please you . 
Mr. Elton was the very person fixed on by Emma for driving the young farmer out of Harriet's head . 
She thought it would be an excellent match and only too palpably desirable , natural , and probable , for her to have much merit in planning it . 
She feared it was what every body else must think of and predict . 
The longer she considered it , the greater was her sense of its expediency . 
And he was really a very pleasing young man , a young man whom any woman not fastidious might like . 
A bad thing ! Do you really think it a bad thing ? why so ? I think they will neither of them do the other any good . 
You surprize me ! Emma must do Harriet good and by supplying her with a new object of interest , Harriet may be said to do Emma good . 
I have been seeing their intimacy with the greatest pleasure . 
How very differently we feel ! Not think they will do each other any good ! This will certainly be the beginning of one of our quarrels about Emma , Mr. Knightley . 
Perhaps you think I am come on purpose to quarrel with you , knowing Weston to be out , and that you must still fight your own battle . 
Mr. Weston would undoubtedly support me , if he were here , for he thinks exactly as I do on the subject . 
We were speaking of it only yesterday , and agreeing how fortunate it was for Emma , that there should be such a girl in Highbury for her to associate with . 
Mr. Knightley , I shall not allow you to be a fair judge in this case . 
I can imagine your objection to Harriet Smith . 
She is not the superior young woman which Emma's friend ought to be . 
But on the other hand , as Emma wants to see her better informed , it will be an inducement to her to read more herself . 
She means it , I know . 
Emma has been meaning to read more ever since she was twelve years old . 
But I have done with expecting any course of steady reading from Emma . 
She will never submit to any thing requiring industry and patience , and a subjection of the fancy to the understanding . 
Where Miss Taylor failed to stimulate , I may safely affirm that Harriet Smith will do nothing . 
You never could persuade her to read half so much as you wished . 
You know you could not . 
I dare say , replied Mrs. Weston , smiling , that I thought so then but since we have parted , I can never remember Emma's omitting to do any thing I wished . 
There is hardly any desiring to refresh such a memory as that , said Mr. Knightley , feelingly and for a moment or two he had done . 
But I , he soon added , who have had no such charm thrown over my senses , must still see , hear , and remember . 
Emma is spoiled by being the cleverest of her family . 
At ten years old , she had the misfortune of being able to answer questions which puzzled her sister at seventeen . 
She was always quick and assured Isabella slow and diffident . 
And ever since she was twelve , Emma has been mistress of the house and of you all . 
In her mother she lost the only person able to cope with her . 
She inherits her mother's talents , and must have been under subjection to her . 
I am sure you always thought me unfit for the office I held . 
Yes , said he , smiling . 
You are better placed here very fit for a wife , but not at all for a governess . 
But you were preparing yourself to be an excellent wife all the time you were at Hartfield . 
There will be very little merit in making a good wife to such a man as Mr. Weston . 
Why , to own the truth , I am afraid you are rather thrown away , and that with every disposition to bear , there will be nothing to be borne . 
We will not despair , however . 
Weston may grow cross from the wantonness of comfort , or his son may plague him . 
No , Mr. Knightley , do not foretell vexation from that quarter . 
I do not pretend to Emma's genius for foretelling and guessing . 
I hope , with all my heart , the young man may be a Weston in merit , and a Churchill in fortune . 
But Harriet Smith I have not half done about Harriet Smith . 
I think her the very worst sort of companion that Emma could possibly have . 
She knows nothing herself , and looks upon Emma as knowing every thing . 
She is a flatterer in all her ways and so much the worse , because undesigned . 
Her ignorance is hourly flattery . 
Hartfield will only put her out of conceit with all the other places she belongs to . 
She will grow just refined enough to be uncomfortable with those among whom birth and circumstances have placed her home . 
I am much mistaken if Emma's doctrines give any strength of mind , or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life . 
They only give a little polish . 
I either depend more upon Emma's good sense than you do , or am more anxious for her present comfort for I cannot lament the acquaintance . 
Pretty ! say beautiful rather . 
But I am a partial old friend . 
One hears sometimes of a child being the picture of health now , Emma always gives me the idea of being the complete picture of grown up health . 
Mr. Knightley , is not she ? I have not a fault to find with her person , he replied . 
I think her all you describe . 
I love to look at her and I will add this praise , that I do not think her personally vain . 
Considering how very handsome she is , she appears to be little occupied with it her vanity lies another way . 
Mrs. Weston , I am not to be talked out of my dislike of Harriet Smith , or my dread of its doing them both harm . 
And I , Mr. Knightley , am equally stout in my confidence of its not doing them any harm . 
With all dear Emma's little faults , she is an excellent creature . 
Very well I will not plague you any more . 
Emma shall be an angel , and I will keep my spleen to myself till Christmas brings John and Isabella . 
John loves Emma with a reasonable and therefore not a blind affection , and Isabella always thinks as he does except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children . 
I am sure of having their opinions with me . 
the liberty of hinting that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet Smith's intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you . 
It has been so many years my province to give advice , that you cannot be surprized , Mr. Knightley , at this little remains of office . 
Not at all , cried he I am much obliged to you for it . 
It is very good advice , and it shall have a better fate than your advice has often found for it shall be attended to . 
Mrs. John Knightley is easily alarmed , and might be made unhappy about her sister . 
Be satisfied , said he , I will not raise any outcry . 
I will keep my ill humour to myself . 
I have a very sincere interest in Emma . 
Isabella does not seem more my sister has never excited a greater interest perhaps hardly so great . 
There is an anxiety , a curiosity in what one feels for Emma . 
I wonder what will become of her ! So do I , said Mrs. Weston gently , very much . 
She always declares she will never marry , which , of course , means just nothing at all . 
But I have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for . 
It would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object . 
I should like to see Emma in love , and in some doubt of a return it would do her good . 
But there is nobody hereabouts to attach her and she goes so seldom from home . 
I do not recommend matrimony at present to Emma , though I mean no slight to the state , I assure you . 
Part of her meaning was to conceal some favourite thoughts of her own and Mr. Weston's on the subject , as much as possible . 
She was quite convinced of Mr. Elton's being in the fairest way of falling in love , if not in love already . 
She had no scruple with regard to him . 
He talked of Harriet , and praised her so warmly , that she could not suppose any thing wanting which a little time would not add . 
His perception of the striking improvement of Harriet's manner , since her introduction at Hartfield , was not one of the least agreeable proofs of his growing attachment . 
You have given Miss Smith all that she required , said he you have made her graceful and easy . 
She was a beautiful creature when she came to you , but , in my opinion , the attractions you have added are infinitely superior to what she received from nature . 
I am glad you think I have been useful to her but Harriet only wanted drawing out , and receiving a few , very few hints . 
She had all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in herself . 
I have done very little . 
Exactly so that is what principally strikes me . 
So much superadded decision of character ! Skilful has been the hand ! Great has been the pleasure , I am sure . 
I never met with a disposition more truly amiable . 
I have no doubt of it . 
And it was spoken with a sort of sighing animation , which had a vast deal of the lover . 
She was not less pleased another day with the manner in which he seconded a sudden wish of hers , to have Harriet's picture . 
No sooner was she out of sight , than Emma exclaimed , What an exquisite possession a good picture of her would be ! I would give any money for it . 
I almost long to attempt her likeness myself . 
But from one cause or another , I gave it up in disgust . 
But really , I could almost venture , if Harriet would sit to me . 
I know what your drawings are . 
Don't pretend to be in raptures about mine . 
Keep your raptures for Harriet's face . 
Well , if you give me such kind encouragement , Mr. Elton , I believe I shall try what I can do . 
Exactly so The shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth I have not a doubt of your success . 
Pray , pray attempt it . 
As you will do it , it will indeed , to use your own words , be an exquisite possession . 
But I am afraid , Mr. Elton , Harriet will not like to sit . 
She thinks so little of her own beauty . 
Did not you observe her manner of answering me ? How completely it meant , why should my picture be drawn ? Oh ! yes , I observed it , I assure you . 
It was not lost on me . 
But still I cannot imagine she would not be persuaded . 
Harriet was soon back again , and the proposal almost immediately made and she had no scruples which could stand many minutes against the earnest pressing of both the others . 
Her many beginnings were displayed . 
Miniatures , half lengths , whole lengths , pencil , crayon , and water colours had been all tried in turn . 
They were both in ecstasies . 
A likeness pleases every body and Miss Woodhouse's performances must be capital . 
No great variety of faces for you , said Emma . 
I had only my own family to study from . 
Mrs. Weston again , and again , and again , you see . 
Dear Mrs. Weston ! always my kindest friend on every occasion . 
She would sit whenever I asked her . 
There is my sister and really quite her own little elegant figure ! and the face not unlike . 
Here is my sketch of the fourth , who was a baby . 
I took him as he was sleeping on the sofa , and it is as strong a likeness of his cockade as you would wish to see . 
He had nestled down his head most conveniently . 
I am rather proud of little George . 
The corner of the sofa is very good . 
Then here is my last , unclosing a pretty sketch of a gentleman in small size , whole length my last and my best my brother , Mr. John Knightley . 
This did not want much of being finished , when I put it away in a pet , and vowed I would never take another likeness . 
We had had a great deal of trouble in persuading him to sit at all . 
But for Harriet's sake , or rather for my own , and as there are no husbands and wives in the case at present , I will break my resolution now . 
Mr. Elton seemed very properly struck and delighted by the idea , and was repeating , No husbands and wives in the case at present indeed , as you observe . 
No husbands and wives , with so interesting a consciousness , that Emma began to consider whether she had not better leave them together at once . 
But as she wanted to be drawing , the declaration must wait a little longer . 
She had soon fixed on the size and sort of portrait . 
But there was no doing any thing , with Mr. Elton fidgeting behind her and watching every touch . 
It then occurred to her to employ him in reading . 
Mr. Elton was only too happy . 
Harriet listened , and Emma drew in peace . 
There was no being displeased with such an encourager , for his admiration made him discern a likeness almost before it was possible . 
She could not respect his eye , but his love and his complaisance were unexceptionable . 
The sitting was altogether very satisfactory she was quite enough pleased with the first day's sketch to wish to go on . 
Harriet was to sit again the next day and Mr. Elton , just as he ought , entreated for the permission of attending and reading to them again . 
We shall be most happy to consider you as one of the party . 
The same civilities and courtesies , the same success and satisfaction , took place on the morrow , and accompanied the whole progress of the picture , which was rapid and happy . 
Every body who saw it was pleased , but Mr. Elton was in continual raptures , and defended it through every criticism . 
Miss Woodhouse has given her friend the only beauty she wanted , observed Mrs. Weston to him not in the least suspecting that she was addressing a lover . 
The expression of the eye is most correct , but Miss Smith has not those eyebrows and eyelashes . 
It is the fault of her face that she has them not . 
Do you think so ? replied he . 
I cannot agree with you . 
It appears to me a most perfect resemblance in every feature . 
I never saw such a likeness in my life . 
We must allow for the effect of shade , you know . 
You have made her too tall , Emma , said Mr. Knightley . 
Emma knew that she had , but would not own it and Mr. Elton warmly added , Oh no ! certainly not too tall not in the least too tall . 
Consider , she is sitting down which naturally presents a different which in short gives exactly the idea and the proportions must be preserved , you know . 
Oh no ! it gives one exactly the idea of such a height as Miss Smith's . 
Exactly so indeed ! It is very pretty , said Mr. Woodhouse . 
So prettily done ! Just as your drawings always are , my dear . 
I do not know any body who draws so well as you do . 
But , my dear papa , it is supposed to be summer a warm day in summer . 
But it is never safe to sit out of doors , my dear . 
The naivete of Miss Smith's manners and altogether Oh , it is most admirable ! I cannot keep my eyes from it . 
I never saw such a likeness . 
The next thing wanted was to get the picture framed and here were a few difficulties . 
But no sooner was the distress known to Mr. Elton , than it was removed . 
His gallantry was always on the alert . 
Might he be trusted with the commission , what infinite pleasure should he have in executing it ! he could ride to London at any time . 
It was impossible to say how much he should be gratified by being employed on such an errand . 
What a precious deposit ! said he with a tender sigh , as he received it . 
This man is almost too gallant to be in love , thought Emma . 
I should say so , but that I suppose there may be a hundred different ways of being in love . 
I come in for a pretty good share as a second . 
But it is his gratitude on Harriet's account . 
CHAPTER VII The very day of Mr. Elton's going to London produced a fresh occasion for Emma's services towards her friend . 
Half a minute brought it all out . 
Who could have thought it ? She was so surprized she did not know what to do . 
Yes , quite a proposal of marriage and a very good letter , at least she thought so . 
Emma was half ashamed of her friend for seeming so pleased and so doubtful . 
Upon my word , she cried , the young man is determined not to lose any thing for want of asking . 
He will connect himself well if he can . 
Will you read the letter ? cried Harriet . 
Emma was not sorry to be pressed . 
She read , and was surprized . 
The style of the letter was much above her expectation . 
It was short , but expressed good sense , warm attachment , liberality , propriety , even delicacy of feeling . 
It is so with some men . 
Yes , I understand the sort of mind . 
Vigorous , decided , with sentiments to a certain point , not coarse . 
But what are you in doubt of ? You must answer it of course and speedily . 
But what shall I say ? Dear Miss Woodhouse , do advise me . 
Oh no , no ! the letter had much better be all your own . 
You will express yourself very properly , I am sure . 
There is no danger of your not being intelligible , which is the first thing . 
You need not be prompted to write with the appearance of sorrow for his disappointment . 
You think I ought to refuse him then , said Harriet , looking down . 
I certainly have been misunderstanding you , if you feel in doubt as to the purport of your answer . 
I had imagined you were consulting me only as to the wording of it . 
With a little reserve of manner , Emma continued You mean to return a favourable answer , I collect . 
I shall not give you any advice , Harriet . 
I will have nothing to do with it . 
This is a point which you must settle with your feelings . 
I had no notion that he liked me so very much , said Harriet , contemplating the letter . 
If she can hesitate as to Yes , she ought to say No' directly . 
It is not a state to be safely entered into with doubtful feelings , with half a heart . 
I thought it my duty as a friend , and older than yourself , to say thus much to you . 
But do not imagine that I want to influence you . 
It will be safer to say No , perhaps . 
Do you think I had better say No ? Not for the world , said Emma , smiling graciously , would I advise you either way . 
You must be the best judge of your own happiness . 
Does any body else occur to you at this moment under such a definition ? Harriet , Harriet , do not deceive yourself do not be run away with by gratitude and compassion . 
At this moment whom are you thinking of ? The symptoms were favourable . 
Instead of answering , Harriet turned away confused , and stood thoughtfully by the fire and though the letter was still in her hand , it was now mechanically twisted about without regard . 
Emma waited the result with impatience , but not without strong hopes . 
Do you think I am right ? Perfectly , perfectly right , my dearest Harriet you are doing just what you ought . 
While you were at all in suspense I kept my feelings to myself , but now that you are so completely decided I have no hesitation in approving . 
Dear Harriet , I give myself joy of this . 
It would have grieved me to lose your acquaintance , which must have been the consequence of your marrying Mr. Martin . 
While you were in the smallest degree wavering , I said nothing about it , because I would not influence but it would have been the loss of a friend to me . 
I could not have visited Mrs. Robert Martin , of Abbey Mill Farm . 
Now I am secure of you for ever . 
Harriet had not surmised her own danger , but the idea of it struck her forcibly . 
You could not have visited me ! she cried , looking aghast . 
No , to be sure you could not but I never thought of that before . 
Indeed , Harriet , it would have been a severe pang to lose you but it must have been . 
You would have thrown yourself out of all good society . 
I must have given you up . 
He must have a pretty good opinion of himself . 
Thank you , thank you , my own sweet little friend . 
We will not be parted . 
A woman is not to marry a man merely because she is asked , or because he is attached to her , and can write a tolerable letter . 
Oh no and it is but a short letter too . 
Oh ! yes , very . 
Nobody cares for a letter the thing is , to be always happy with pleasant companions . 
I am quite determined to refuse him . 
This letter , however , was written , and sealed , and sent . 
The business was finished , and Harriet safe . 
I shall never be invited to Abbey Mill again , was said in rather a sorrowful tone . 
Nor , if you were , could I ever bear to part with you , my Harriet . 
You are a great deal too necessary at Hartfield to be spared to Abbey Mill . 
And I am sure I should never want to go there for I am never happy but at Hartfield . 
Some time afterwards it was , I think Mrs. Goddard would be very much surprized if she knew what had happened . 
I am sure Miss Nash would for Miss Nash thinks her own sister very well married , and it is only a linen draper . 
One should be sorry to see greater pride or refinement in the teacher of a school , Harriet . 
I dare say Miss Nash would envy you such an opportunity as this of being married . 
Even this conquest would appear valuable in her eyes . 
As to any thing superior for you , I suppose she is quite in the dark . 
The attentions of a certain person can hardly be among the tittle tattle of Highbury yet . 
Hitherto I fancy you and I are the only people to whom his looks and manners have explained themselves . 
Harriet blushed and smiled , and said something about wondering that people should like her so much . 
The idea of Mr. Elton was certainly cheering but still , after a time , she was tender hearted again towards the rejected Mr. Martin . 
Now he has got my letter , said she softly . 
I wonder what they are all doing whether his sisters know if he is unhappy , they will be unhappy too . 
I hope he will not mind it so very much . 
Let us think of those among our absent friends who are more cheerfully employed , cried Emma . 
My picture ! But he has left my picture in Bond street . 
Has he so ! Then I know nothing of Mr. Elton . 
No , my dear little modest Harriet , depend upon it the picture will not be in Bond street till just before he mounts his horse to morrow . 
It is his companion all this evening , his solace , his delight . 
It opens his designs to his family , it introduces you among them , it diffuses through the party those pleasantest feelings of our nature , eager curiosity and warm prepossession . 
How cheerful , how animated , how suspicious , how busy their imaginations all are ! Harriet smiled again , and her smiles grew stronger . 
CHAPTER VIII Harriet slept at Hartfield that night . 
Mr. Knightley , who had nothing of ceremony about him , was offering by his short , decided answers , an amusing contrast to the protracted apologies and civil hesitations of the other . 
As the sun is out , I believe I had better take my three turns while I can . 
I treat you without ceremony , Mr. Knightley . 
We invalids think we are privileged people . 
My dear sir , do not make a stranger of me . 
I leave an excellent substitute in my daughter . 
Emma will be happy to entertain you . 
And therefore I think I will beg your excuse and take my three turns my winter walk . 
You cannot do better , sir . 
Thank you , sir , thank you I am going this moment myself and I think the sooner you go the better . 
I will fetch your greatcoat and open the garden door for you . 
Mr. Woodhouse at last was off but Mr. Knightley , instead of being immediately off likewise , sat down again , seemingly inclined for more chat . 
He began speaking of Harriet , and speaking of her with more voluntary praise than Emma had ever heard before . 
I cannot rate her beauty as you do , said he but she is a pretty little creature , and I am inclined to think very well of her disposition . 
Her character depends upon those she is with but in good hands she will turn out a valuable woman . 
I am glad you think so and the good hands , I hope , may not be wanting . 
Come , said he , you are anxious for a compliment , so I will tell you that you have improved her . 
You have cured her of her school girl's giggle she really does you credit . 
I should be mortified indeed if I did not believe I had been of some use but it is not every body who will bestow praise where they may . 
You do not often overpower me with it . 
You are expecting her again , you say , this morning ? Almost every moment . 
She has been gone longer already than she intended . 
Something has happened to delay her some visitors perhaps . 
Highbury gossips ! Tiresome wretches ! Harriet may not consider every body tiresome that you would . 
Emma knew this was too true for contradiction , and therefore said nothing . 
Indeed ! how so ? of what sort ? A very serious sort , I assure you still smiling . 
Mr. Knightley was a sort of general friend and adviser , and she knew Mr. Elton looked up to him . 
I have reason to think , he replied , that Harriet Smith will soon have an offer of marriage , and from a most unexceptionable quarter Robert Martin is the man . 
Her visit to Abbey Mill , this summer , seems to have done his business . 
He is desperately in love and means to marry her . 
He is very obliging , said Emma but is he sure that Harriet means to marry him ? Well , well , means to make her an offer then . 
Will that do ? He came to the Abbey two evenings ago , on purpose to consult me about it . 
He knows I have a thorough regard for him and all his family , and , I believe , considers me as one of his best friends . 
as in a line of society above him . 
I was very much pleased with all that he said . 
I never hear better sense from any one than Robert Martin . 
He always speaks to the purpose open , straightforward , and very well judging . 
He told me every thing his circumstances and plans , and what they all proposed doing in the event of his marriage . 
He is an excellent young man , both as son and brother . 
I had no hesitation in advising him to marry . 
He proved to me that he could afford it and that being the case , I was convinced he could not do better . 
I praised the fair lady too , and altogether sent him away very happy . 
This happened the night before last . 
Was not she the whole day with you ? Come , said she , I will tell you something , in return for what you have told me . 
He did speak yesterday that is , he wrote , and was refused . 
What is the foolish girl about ? Oh ! to be sure , cried Emma , it is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever refuse an offer of marriage . 
A man always imagines a woman to be ready for any body who asks her . 
Nonsense ! a man does not imagine any such thing . 
But what is the meaning of this ? Harriet Smith refuse Robert Martin ? madness , if it is so but I hope you are mistaken . 
I saw her answer ! nothing could be clearer . 
You saw her answer ! you wrote her answer too . 
Emma , this is your doing . 
You persuaded her to refuse him . 
I should not feel that I had done wrong . 
Mr. Martin is a very respectable young man , but I cannot admit him to be Harriet's equal and am rather surprized indeed that he should have ventured to address her . 
By your account , he does seem to have had some scruples . 
It is a pity that they were ever got over . 
Emma , your infatuation about that girl blinds you . 
She is known only as parlour boarder at a common school . 
She is not a sensible girl , nor a girl of any information . 
She has been taught nothing useful , and is too young and too simple to have acquired any thing herself . 
At her age she can have no experience , and with her little wit , is not very likely ever to have any that can avail her . 
She is pretty , and she is good tempered , and that is all . 
My only scruple in advising the match was on his account , as being beneath his deserts , and a bad connexion for him . 
I felt that , as to fortune , in all probability he might do much better and that as to a rational companion or useful helpmate , he could not do worse . 
that there would be a general cry out upon her extreme good luck . 
Even your satisfaction I made sure of . 
It crossed my mind immediately that you would not regret your friend's leaving Highbury , for the sake of her being settled so well . 
I remember saying to myself , Even Emma , with all her partiality for Harriet , will think this a good match . 
I cannot help wondering at your knowing so little of Emma as to say any such thing . 
I assure you mine are very different . 
I must think your statement by no means fair . 
You are not just to Harriet's claims . 
They would be estimated very differently by others as well as myself Mr. Martin may be the richest of the two , but he is undoubtedly her inferior as to rank in society . 
The sphere in which she moves is much above his . 
It would be a degradation . 
She is not to pay for the offence of others , by being held below the level of those with whom she is brought up . 
There can scarcely be a doubt that her father is a gentleman and a gentleman of fortune . 
Her allowance is very liberal nothing has ever been grudged for her improvement or comfort . 
That she is a gentleman's daughter , is indubitable to me that she associates with gentlemen's daughters , no one , I apprehend , will deny . 
She is superior to Mr. Robert Martin . 
Her friends evidently thought this good enough for her and it was good enough . 
She desired nothing better herself . 
Till you chose to turn her into a friend , her mind had no distaste for her own set , nor any ambition beyond it . 
She was as happy as possible with the Martins in the summer . 
She had no sense of superiority then . 
If she has it now , you have given it . 
You have been no friend to Harriet Smith , Emma . 
Robert Martin would never have proceeded so far , if he had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined to him . 
He has too much real feeling to address any woman on the haphazard of selfish passion . 
And as to conceit , he is the farthest from it of any man I know . 
Depend upon it he had encouragement . 
It was most convenient to Emma not to make a direct reply to this assertion she chose rather to take up her own line of the subject again . 
You are a very warm friend to Mr. Martin but , as I said before , are unjust to Harriet . 
Harriet's claims to marry well are not so contemptible as you represent them . 
She is not a clever girl , but she has better sense than you are aware of , and does not deserve to have her understanding spoken of so slightingly . 
I am very much mistaken if your sex in general would not think such beauty , and such temper , the highest claims a woman could possess . 
Upon my word , Emma , to hear you abusing the reason you have , is almost enough to make me think so too . 
Better be without sense , than misapply it as you do . 
To be sure ! cried she playfully . 
I know that is the feeling of you all . 
I know that such a girl as Harriet is exactly what every man delights in what at once bewitches his senses and satisfies his judgment . 
Oh ! Harriet may pick and chuse . 
Were you , yourself , ever to marry , she is the very woman for you . 
Vanity working on a weak head , produces every sort of mischief . 
Nothing so easy as for a young lady to raise her expectations too high . 
Miss Harriet Smith may not find offers of marriage flow in so fast , though she is a very pretty girl . 
Men of sense , whatever you may chuse to say , do not want silly wives . 
till she grow desperate , and is glad to catch at the old writing master's son . 
We think so very differently on this point , Mr. Knightley , that there can be no use in canvassing it . 
We shall only be making each other more angry . 
But as to my letting her marry Robert Martin , it is impossible she has refused him , and so decidedly , I think , as must prevent any second application . 
His appearance is so much against him , and his manner so bad , that if she ever were disposed to favour him , she is not now . 
I can imagine , that before she had seen any body superior , she might tolerate him . 
she might not , while she was at Abbey Mill , find him disagreeable . 
But the case is altered now . 
She knows now what gentlemen are and nothing but a gentleman in education and manner has any chance with Harriet . 
Nonsense , errant nonsense , as ever was talked ! cried Mr. Knightley . 
Robert Martin's manners have sense , sincerity , and good humour to recommend them and his mind has more true gentility than Harriet Smith could understand . 
Emma made no answer , and tried to look cheerfully unconcerned , but was really feeling uncomfortable and wanting him very much to be gone . 
Some minutes passed in this unpleasant silence , with only one attempt on Emma's side to talk of the weather , but he made no answer . 
The result of his thoughts appeared at last in these words . 
Robert Martin has no great loss if he can but think so and I hope it will not be long before he does . 
He continued , Depend upon it , Elton will not do . 
Elton is a very good sort of man , and a very respectable vicar of Highbury , but not at all likely to make an imprudent match . 
He knows the value of a good income as well as any body . 
Elton may talk sentimentally , but he will act rationally . 
He is as well acquainted with his own claims , as you can be with Harriet's . 
I have heard him speak with great animation of a large family of young ladies that his sisters are intimate with , who have all twenty thousand pounds apiece . 
I am very much obliged to you , said Emma , laughing again . 
If I had set my heart on Mr. Elton's marrying Harriet , it would have been very kind to open my eyes but at present I only want to keep Harriet to myself . 
I have done with match making indeed . 
I could never hope to equal my own doings at Randalls . 
I shall leave off while I am well . 
Good morning to you , said he , rising and walking off abruptly . 
He was very much vexed . 
Emma remained in a state of vexation too but there was more indistinctness in the causes of her's , than in his . 
She did not always feel so absolutely satisfied with herself , so entirely convinced that her opinions were right and her adversary's wrong , as Mr. Knightley . 
He walked off in more complete self approbation than he left for her . 
She was not so materially cast down , however , but that a little time and the return of Harriet were very adequate restoratives . 
Harriet's staying away so long was beginning to make her uneasy . 
The possibility of the young man's coming to Mrs. Goddard's that morning , and meeting with Harriet and pleading his own cause , gave alarming ideas . 
Harriet's cheerful look and manner established hers she came back , not to think of Mr. Martin , but to talk of Mr. Elton . 
Miss Nash had been telling her something , which she repeated immediately with great delight . 
CHAPTER IX Mr. Knightley might quarrel with her , but Emma could not quarrel with herself . 
He was so much displeased , that it was longer than usual before he came to Hartfield again and when they did meet , his grave looks shewed that she was not forgiven . 
She was sorry , but could not repent . 
On the contrary , her plans and proceedings were more and more justified and endeared to her by the general appearances of the next few days . 
Emma was soon perfectly satisfied of Mr. Martin's being no otherwise remembered , than as he furnished a contrast with Mr. Elton , of the utmost advantage to the latter . 
In this age of literature , such collections on a very grand scale are not uncommon . 
Mr. Woodhouse was almost as much interested in the business as the girls , and tried very often to recollect something worth their putting in . 
So many clever riddles as there used to be when he was young he wondered he could not remember them ! but he hoped he should in time . 
And it always ended in Kitty , a fair but frozen maid . 
It was by no means his daughter's wish that the intellects of Highbury in general should be put under requisition . 
Mr. Elton was the only one whose assistance she asked . 
made her quite sorry to acknowledge that they had transcribed it some pages ago already . 
Why will not you write one yourself for us , Mr. Elton ? said she that is the only security for its freshness and nothing could be easier to you . 
Oh no ! he had never written , hardly ever , any thing of the kind in his life . 
The stupidest fellow ! He was afraid not even Miss Woodhouse he stopt a moment or Miss Smith could inspire him . 
The very next day however produced some proof of inspiration . 
I do not offer it for Miss Smith's collection , said he . 
Being my friend's , I have no right to expose it in any degree to the public eye , but perhaps you may not dislike looking at it . 
The speech was more to Emma than to Harriet , which Emma could understand . 
There was deep consciousness about him , and he found it easier to meet her eye than her friend's . 
He was gone the next moment after another moment's pause , Take it , said Emma , smiling , and pushing the paper towards Harriet it is for you . 
But Harriet was in a tremor , and could not touch it and Emma , never loth to be first , was obliged to examine it herself . 
My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings , Lords of the earth ! their luxury and ease . 
I have read worse charades . 
Courtship a very good hint . 
I give you credit for it . 
This is feeling your way . 
This is saying very plainly Pray , Miss Smith , give me leave to pay my addresses to you . 
Approve my charade and my intentions in the same glance . 
May its approval beam in that soft eye ! Harriet exactly . 
Soft is the very word for her eye of all epithets , the justest that could be given . 
Thy ready wit the word will soon supply . 
Humph Harriet's ready wit ! All the better . 
A man must be very much in love , indeed , to describe her so . 
Ah ! Mr. Knightley , I wish you had the benefit of this I think this would convince you . 
For once in your life you would be obliged to own yourself mistaken . 
An excellent charade indeed ! and very much to the purpose . 
Things must come to a crisis soon now . 
She was obliged to break off from these very pleasant observations , which were otherwise of a sort to run into great length , by the eagerness of Harriet's wondering questions . 
What can it be , Miss Woodhouse ? what can it be ? I have not an idea I cannot guess it in the least . 
What can it possibly be ? Do try to find it out , Miss Woodhouse . 
I never saw any thing so hard . 
Is it kingdom ? I wonder who the friend was and who could be the young lady . 
Do you think it is a good one ? Can it be woman ? And woman , lovely woman , reigns alone . 
It must be very clever , or he would not have brought it . 
For Miss , read Miss Smith . 
My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings , Lords of the earth ! their luxury and ease . 
Another view of man , my second brings Behold him there , the monarch of the seas ! That is ship plain as it can be . 
what reverse we have ! Man's boasted power and freedom , all are flown . 
Lord of the earth and sea , he bends a slave , And woman , lovely woman , reigns alone . 
A very proper compliment ! and then follows the application , which I think , my dear Harriet , you cannot find much difficulty in comprehending . 
Read it in comfort to yourself . 
There can be no doubt of its being written for you and to you . 
Harriet could not long resist so delightful a persuasion . 
She read the concluding lines , and was all flutter and happiness . 
But she was not wanted to speak . 
It was enough for her to feel . 
There is so pointed , and so particular a meaning in this compliment , said she , that I cannot have a doubt as to Mr. Elton's intentions . 
You are his object and you will soon receive the completest proof of it . 
I thought it must be so . 
Yes , Harriet , just so long have I been wanting the very circumstance to happen what has happened . 
I could never tell whether an attachment between you and Mr. Elton were most desirable or most natural . 
Its probability and its eligibility have really so equalled each other ! I am very happy . 
I congratulate you , my dear Harriet , with all my heart . 
This is an attachment which a woman may well feel pride in creating . 
This is a connexion which offers nothing but good . 
This , Harriet , is an alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us . 
Mr. Elton's superiority had very ample acknowledgment . 
Whatever you say is always right , cried Harriet , and therefore I suppose , and believe , and hope it must be so but otherwise I could not have imagined it . 
It is so much beyond any thing I deserve . 
Mr. Elton , who might marry any body ! There cannot be two opinions about him . 
He is so very superior . 
Only think of those sweet verses To Miss . 
Dear me , how clever ! Could it really be meant for me ? I cannot make a question , or listen to a question about that . 
Receive it on my judgment . 
It is a sort of prologue to the play , a motto to the chapter and will be soon followed by matter of fact prose . 
It is a sort of thing which nobody could have expected . 
You and Mr. Elton are by situation called together you belong to one another by every circumstance of your respective homes . 
Your marrying will be equal to the match at Randalls . 
There does seem to be a something in the air of Hartfield which gives love exactly the right direction , and sends it into the very channel where it ought to flow . 
The course of true love never did run smooth A Hartfield edition of Shakespeare would have a long note on that passage . 
And so excellent in the Church ! Miss Nash has put down all the texts he has ever preached from since he came to Highbury . 
And how beautiful we thought he looked ! He was arm in arm with Mr. Cole . 
How nicely you talk I love to hear you . 
You and Mr. Elton are one as clever as the other . 
This charade ! If I had studied a twelvemonth , I could never have made any thing like it . 
I thought he meant to try his skill , by his manner of declining it yesterday . 
I do think it is , without exception , the best charade I ever read . 
I never read one more to the purpose , certainly . 
It is as long again as almost all we have had before . 
I do not consider its length as particularly in its favour . 
Such things in general cannot be too short . 
Harriet was too intent on the lines to hear . 
The most satisfactory comparisons were rising in her mind . 
Emma could not have desired a more spirited rejection of Mr. Martin's prose . 
Your soft eyes shall chuse their own time for beaming . 
Oh ! Miss Woodhouse , what a pity that I must not write this beautiful charade into my book ! I am sure I have not got one half so good . 
Leave out the two last lines , and there is no reason why you should not write it into your book . 
Oh ! but those two lines are The best of all . 
Granted for private enjoyment and for private enjoyment keep them . 
They are not at all the less written you know , because you divide them . 
The couplet does not cease to be , nor does its meaning change . 
But take it away , and all appropriation ceases , and a very pretty gallant charade remains , fit for any collection . 
Depend upon it , he would not like to have his charade slighted , much better than his passion . 
A poet in love must be encouraged in both capacities , or neither . 
Give me the book , I will write it down , and then there can be no possible reflection on you . 
Harriet submitted , though her mind could hardly separate the parts , so as to feel quite sure that her friend were not writing down a declaration of love . 
It seemed too precious an offering for any degree of publicity . 
I shall never let that book go out of my own hands , said she . 
Very well , replied Emma a most natural feeling and the longer it lasts , the better I shall be pleased . 
But here is my father coming you will not object to my reading the charade to him . 
It will be giving him so much pleasure ! He loves any thing of the sort , and especially any thing that pays woman a compliment . 
He has the tenderest spirit of gallantry towards us all ! You must let me read it to him . 
My dear Harriet , you must not refine too much upon this charade . 
Do not be overpowered by such a little tribute of admiration . 
If he had been anxious for secrecy , he would not have left the paper while I was by but he rather pushed it towards me than towards you . 
Do not let us be too solemn on the business . 
He has encouragement enough to proceed , without our sighing out our souls over this charade . 
Oh ! no I hope I shall not be ridiculous about it . 
containing a very pretty charade , and we have just copied it in . 
Aye , that's very just , indeed , that's very properly said . 
It is such a pretty charade , my dear , that I can easily guess what fairy brought it . 
Nobody could have written so prettily , but you , Emma . 
Emma only nodded , and smiled . 
And that is all that I can recollect of it but it is very clever all the way through . 
But I think , my dear , you said you had got it . 
Yes , papa , it is written out in our second page . 
We copied it from the Elegant Extracts . 
It was Garrick's , you know . 
I wish I could recollect more of it . 
Kitty , a fair but frozen maid . 
The name makes me think of poor Isabella for she was very near being christened Catherine after her grandmama . 
I hope we shall have her here next week . 
Mr. John Knightley's being a lawyer is very inconvenient . 
I do not know , my dear . 
I am sure I was very much surprized when I first heard she was going to be married . 
We must ask Mr. and Mrs. Weston to dine with us , while Isabella is here . 
Yes , my dear , if there is time . 
she is coming for only one week . 
There will not be time for any thing . 
It is unfortunate that they cannot stay longer but it seems a case of necessity . 
Mr. Knightley promises to give up his claim this Christmas though you know it is longer since they were with him , than with us . 
It would be very hard , indeed , my dear , if poor Isabella were to be anywhere but at Hartfield . 
Mr. Woodhouse could never allow for Mr. Knightley's claims on his brother , or any body's claims on Isabella , except his own . 
He sat musing a little while , and then said , But I do not see why poor Isabella should be obliged to go back so soon , though he does . 
I think , Emma , I shall try and persuade her to stay longer with us . 
She and the children might stay very well . 
Ah ! papa that is what you never have been able to accomplish , and I do not think you ever will . 
Isabella cannot bear to stay behind her husband . 
This was too true for contradiction . 
Harriet must give us as much of her company as she can while my brother and sister are here . 
I am sure she will be pleased with the children . 
Poor little dears , how glad they will be to come . 
They are very fond of being at Hartfield , Harriet . 
I dare say they are , sir . 
I am sure I do not know who is not . 
Henry is a fine boy , but John is very like his mama . 
Henry is the eldest , he was named after me , not after his father . 
John , the second , is named after his father . 
Some people are surprized , I believe , that the eldest was not , but Isabella would have him called Henry , which I thought very pretty of her . 
And he is a very clever boy , indeed . 
They are all remarkably clever and they have so many pretty ways . 
I think their father is too rough with them very often . 
He appears rough to you , said Emma , because you are so very gentle yourself but if you could compare him with other papas , you would not think him rough . 
The children are all fond of him . 
And then their uncle comes in , and tosses them up to the ceiling in a very frightful way ! But they like it , papa there is nothing they like so much . 
It is such enjoyment to them , that if their uncle did not lay down the rule of their taking turns , whichever began would never give way to the other . 
Well , I cannot understand it . 
That is the case with us all , papa . 
One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other . 
Later in the morning , and just as the girls were going to separate in preparation for the regular four o'clock dinner , the hero of this inimitable charade walked in again . 
Emma thanked him , but could not allow of his disappointing his friend on their account her father was sure of his rubber . 
We admired it so much , that I have ventured to write it into Miss Smith's collection . 
Your friend will not take it amiss I hope . 
Of course I have not transcribed beyond the first eight lines . 
Mr. Elton certainly did not very well know what to say . 
He may be sure of every woman's approbation while he writes with such gallantry . 
, he would consider it as the proudest moment of his life . 
After this speech he was gone as soon as possible . 
She ran away to indulge the inclination , leaving the tender and the sublime of pleasure to Harriet's share . 
Emma's remark was There it is . 
There go you and your riddle book one of these days . 
Harriet's was Oh , what a sweet house ! How very beautiful ! There are the yellow curtains that Miss Nash admires so much . 
She pondered , but could think of nothing . 
And I am not only , not going to be married , at present , but have very little intention of ever marrying at all . 
Ah ! so you say but I cannot believe it . 
is out of the question and I do not wish to see any such person . 
I would rather not be tempted . 
I cannot really change for the better . 
If I were to marry , I must expect to repent it . 
Dear me ! it is so odd to hear a woman talk so ! I have none of the usual inducements of women to marry . 
And , without love , I am sure I should be a fool to change such a situation as mine . 
But between us , I am convinced there never can be any likeness , except in being unmarried . 
Those who can barely live , and who live perforce in a very small , and generally very inferior , society , may well be illiberal and cross . 
Woman's usual occupations of hand and mind will be as open to me then as they are now or with no important variation . 
If I draw less , I shall read more if I give up music , I shall take to carpet work . 
There will be enough of them , in all probability , to supply every sort of sensation that declining life can need . 
My nephews and nieces ! I shall often have a niece with me . 
By the bye , that is almost enough to put one out of conceit with a niece . 
Heaven forbid ! at least , that I should ever bore people half so much about all the Knightleys together , as she does about Jane Fairfax . 
One is sick of the very name of Jane Fairfax . 
I wish Jane Fairfax very well but she tires me to death . 
They were now approaching the cottage , and all idle topics were superseded . 
Emma was very compassionate and the distresses of the poor were as sure of relief from her personal attention and kindness , her counsel and her patience , as from her purse . 
Poor creatures ! one can think of nothing else . 
I do not think it will , stopping to look once more at all the outward wretchedness of the place , and recall the still greater within . 
Oh ! dear , no , said her companion . 
I hope it may be allowed that if compassion has produced exertion and relief to the sufferers , it has done all that is truly important . 
If we feel for the wretched , enough to do all we can for them , the rest is empty sympathy , only distressing to ourselves . 
Harriet could just answer , Oh ! dear , yes , before the gentleman joined them . 
The wants and sufferings of the poor family , however , were the first subject on meeting . 
He had been going to call on them . 
His visit he would now defer but they had a very interesting parley about what could be done and should be done . 
Mr. Elton then turned back to accompany them . 
To fall in with each other on such an errand as this , thought Emma to meet in a charitable scheme this will bring a great increase of love on each side . 
I should not wonder if it were to bring on the declaration . 
It must , if I were not here . 
I wish I were anywhere else . 
Part of my lace is gone , said she , and I do not know how I am to contrive . 
I really am a most troublesome companion to you both , but I hope I am not often so ill equipped . 
Mr. Elton looked all happiness at this proposition and nothing could exceed his alertness and attention in conducting them into his house and endeavouring to make every thing appear to advantage . 
She was obliged to leave the door ajar as she found it but she fully intended that Mr. Elton should close it . 
For ten minutes she could hear nothing but herself . 
It could be protracted no longer . 
She was then obliged to be finished , and make her appearance . 
The lovers were standing together at one of the windows . 
It had a most favourable aspect and , for half a minute , Emma felt the glory of having schemed successfully . 
But it would not do he had not come to the point . 
Cautious , very cautious , thought Emma he advances inch by inch , and will hazard nothing till he believes himself secure . 
CHAPTER XI Mr. Elton must now be left to himself . 
It was no longer in Emma's power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures . 
They might advance rapidly if they would , however they must advance somehow or other whether they would or no . 
She hardly wished to have more leisure for them . 
There are people , who the more you do for them , the less they will do for themselves . 
Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley , from having been longer than usual absent from Surry , were exciting of course rather more than the usual interest . 
She could never see a fault in any of them . 
They were alike too , in a general benevolence of temper , and a strong habit of regard for every old acquaintance . 
The extreme sweetness of her temper must hurt his . 
He had all the clearness and quickness of mind which she wanted , and he could sometimes act an ungracious , or say a severe thing . 
He was not a great favourite with his fair sister in law . 
Nothing wrong in him escaped her . 
She was quick in feeling the little injuries to Isabella , which Isabella never felt herself . 
There he had not always the patience that could have been wished . 
Mr. Woodhouse's peculiarities and fidgetiness were sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort equally ill bestowed . 
The beginning , however , of every visit displayed none but the properest feelings , and this being of necessity so short might be hoped to pass away in unsullied cordiality . 
Ah , my dear , said he , poor Miss Taylor It is a grievous business . 
I could not imagine how you could possibly do without her . 
It is a sad change indeed . 
But I hope she is pretty well , sir . 
Pretty well , my dear I hope pretty well . 
I do not know but that the place agrees with her tolerably . 
Mr. John Knightley here asked Emma quietly whether there were any doubts of the air of Randalls . 
Oh ! no none in the least . 
I never saw Mrs. Weston better in my life never looking so well . 
Papa is only speaking his own regret . 
Very much to the honour of both , was the handsome reply . 
And do you see her , sir , tolerably often ? asked Isabella in the plaintive tone which just suited her father . 
Not near so often , my dear , as I could wish . 
Oh ! papa , we have missed seeing them but one entire day since they married . 
They are very , very kind in their visits . 
Mr. Weston is really as kind as herself . 
Papa , if you speak in that melancholy way , you will be giving Isabella a false idea of us all . 
Just as it should be , said Mr. John Knightley , and just as I hoped it was from your letters . 
Her wish of shewing you attention could not be doubted , and his being a disengaged and social man makes it all easy . 
It would be very hard upon Mr. Weston if she did not , papa . 
You quite forget poor Mr. Weston . 
I think , indeed , said John Knightley pleasantly , that Mr. Weston has some little claim . 
You and I , Emma , will venture to take the part of the poor husband . 
I , being a husband , and you not being a wife , the claims of the man may very likely strike us with equal force . 
As for Isabella , she has been married long enough to see the convenience of putting all the Mr. Westons aside as much as she can . 
Me , my love , cried his wife , hearing and understanding only in part . 
I believe he is one of the very best tempered men that ever existed . 
Excepting yourself and your brother , I do not know his equal for temper . 
If any body can deserve him , it must be Miss Taylor . 
Where is the young man ? said John Knightley . 
Has he been here on this occasion or has he not ? He has not been here yet , replied Emma . 
There was a strong expectation of his coming soon after the marriage , but it ended in nothing and I have not heard him mentioned lately . 
But you should tell them of the letter , my dear , said her father . 
He wrote a letter to poor Mrs. Weston , to congratulate her , and a very proper , handsome letter it was . 
She shewed it to me . 
I thought it very well done of him indeed . 
Whether it was his own idea you know , one cannot tell . 
He is but young , and his uncle , perhaps My dear papa , he is three and twenty . 
You forget how time passes . 
However , it was an exceeding good , pretty letter , and gave Mr. and Mrs. Weston a great deal of pleasure . 
I remember it was written from Weymouth , and dated Sept . 
th and began , My dear Madam , but I forget how it went on and it was signed F. C. Weston Churchill . 
How very pleasing and proper of him ! cried the good hearted Mrs. John Knightley . 
I have no doubt of his being a most amiable young man . 
To give up one's child ! I really never could think well of any body who proposed such a thing to any body else . 
Nobody ever did think well of the Churchills , I fancy , observed Mr. John Knightley coolly . 
But you need not imagine Mr. Weston to have felt what you would feel in giving up Henry or John . 
Emma could not like what bordered on a reflection on Mr. Weston , and had half a mind to take it up but she struggled , and let it pass . 
It had a high claim to forbearance . 
CHAPTER XII Mr. Knightley was to dine with them rather against the inclination of Mr. Woodhouse , who did not like that any one should share with him in Isabella's first day . 
She hoped they might now become friends again . 
She thought it was time to make up . 
Making up indeed would not do . 
She certainly had not been in the wrong , and he would never own that he had . 
As to men and women , our opinions are sometimes very different but with regard to these children , I observe we never disagree . 
To be sure our discordancies must always arise from my being in the wrong . 
Yes , said he , smiling and reason good . 
I was sixteen years old when you were born . 
But still , not near enough to give me a chance of being right , if we think differently . 
I have still the advantage of you by sixteen years' experience , and by not being a pretty young woman and a spoiled child . 
Come , my dear Emma , let us be friends , and say no more about it . 
That's true , she cried very true . 
Little Emma , grow up a better woman than your aunt . 
Be infinitely cleverer and not half so conceited . 
Now , Mr. Knightley , a word or two more , and I have done . 
As far as good intentions went , we were both right , and I must say that no effects on my side of the argument have yet proved wrong . 
I only want to know that Mr. Martin is not very , very bitterly disappointed . 
A man cannot be more so , was his short , full answer . 
Ah ! Indeed I am very sorry . 
Come , shake hands with me . 
While they were thus comfortably occupied , Mr. Woodhouse was enjoying a full flow of happy regrets and fearful affection with his daughter . 
You and I will have a nice basin of gruel together . 
My dear Emma , suppose we all have a little gruel . 
Emma could not suppose any such thing , knowing as she did , that both the Mr. Knightleys were as unpersuadable on that article as herself and two basins only were ordered . 
I never had much opinion of the sea air . 
Mr. Wingfield most strenuously recommended it , sir or we should not have gone . 
He recommended it for all the children , but particularly for the weakness in little Bella's throat , both sea air and bathing . 
I am sure it almost killed me once . 
Come , come , cried Emma , feeling this to be an unsafe subject , I must beg you not to talk of the sea . 
It makes me envious and miserable I who have never seen it ! South End is prohibited , if you please . 
My dear Isabella , I have not heard you make one inquiry about Mr. Perry yet and he never forgets you . 
Oh ! good Mr. Perry how is he , sir ? Why , pretty well but not quite well . 
I suppose there is not a man in such practice anywhere . 
But then there is not so clever a man any where . 
And Mrs. Perry and the children , how are they ? do the children grow ? I have a great regard for Mr. Perry . 
I hope he will be calling soon . 
He will be so pleased to see my little ones . 
I hope he will be here to morrow , for I have a question or two to ask him about myself of some consequence . 
And , my dear , whenever he comes , you had better let him look at little Bella's throat . 
Oh ! my dear sir , her throat is so much better that I have hardly any uneasiness about it . 
Oh ! the good Bateses I am quite ashamed of myself but you mention them in most of your letters . 
I hope they are quite well . 
Good old Mrs. Bates I will call upon her to morrow , and take my children . 
They are always so pleased to see my children . 
And that excellent Miss Bates ! such thorough worthy people ! How are they , sir ? Why , pretty well , my dear , upon the whole . 
But poor Mrs. Bates had a bad cold about a month ago . 
How sorry I am ! But colds were never so prevalent as they have been this autumn . 
Mr. Wingfield told me that he has never known them more general or heavy except when it has been quite an influenza . 
That has been a good deal the case , my dear but not to the degree you mention . 
Perry says that colds have been very general , but not so heavy as he has very often known them in November . 
Perry does not call it altogether a sickly season . 
Nobody is healthy in London , nobody can be . 
Our part of London is very superior to most others ! You must not confound us with London in general , my dear sir . 
The neighbourhood of Brunswick Square is very different from almost all the rest . 
Ah ! my dear , it is not like Hartfield . 
You make the best of it but after you have been a week at Hartfield , you are all of you different creatures you do not look like the same . 
Now I cannot say , that I think you are any of you looking well at present . 
I trust , at least , that you do not think Mr. Knightley looking ill , turning her eyes with affectionate anxiety towards her husband . 
Middling , my dear I cannot compliment you . 
I think Mr. John Knightley very far from looking well . 
What is the matter , sir ? Did you speak to me ? cried Mr. John Knightley , hearing his own name . 
I am sorry to find , my love , that my father does not think you looking well but I hope it is only from being a little fatigued . 
I could have wished , however , as you know , that you had seen Mr. Wingfield before you left home . 
My dear Isabella , exclaimed he hastily pray do not concern yourself about my looks . 
Be satisfied with doctoring and coddling yourself and the children , and let me look as I chuse . 
That sweet , amiable Jane Fairfax ! said Mrs. John Knightley . 
She would be such a delightful companion for Emma . 
Mr. Woodhouse agreed to it all , but added , Our little friend Harriet Smith , however , is just such another pretty kind of young person . 
Emma could not have a better companion than Harriet . 
I am most happy to hear it but only Jane Fairfax one knows to be so very accomplished and superior ! and exactly Emma's age . 
This topic was discussed very happily , and others succeeded of similar moment , and passed away with similar harmony but the evening did not close without a little return of agitation . 
Often as she had wished for and ordered it , she had never been able to get any thing tolerable . 
Here was a dangerous opening . 
Ah ! said Mr. Woodhouse , shaking his head and fixing his eyes on her with tender concern . 
The ejaculation in Emma's ear expressed , Ah ! there is no end of the sad consequences of your going to South End . 
It does not bear talking of . 
And for a little while she hoped he would not talk of it , and that a silent rumination might suffice to restore him to the relish of his own smooth gruel . 
After an interval of some minutes , however , he began with , I shall always be very sorry that you went to the sea this autumn , instead of coming here . 
But why should you be sorry , sir ? I assure you , it did the children a great deal of good . 
And , moreover , if you must go to the sea , it had better not have been to South End . 
South End is an unhealthy place . 
Perry was surprized to hear you had fixed upon South End . 
I know there is such an idea with many people , but indeed it is quite a mistake , sir . 
You should have gone to Cromer , my dear , if you went anywhere . 
Perry was a week at Cromer once , and he holds it to be the best of all the sea bathing places . 
A fine open sea , he says , and very pure air . 
And , by what I understand , you might have had lodgings there quite away from the sea a quarter of a mile off very comfortable . 
You should have consulted Perry . 
But , my dear sir , the difference of the journey only consider how great it would have been . 
An hundred miles , perhaps , instead of forty . 
Better not move at all , better stay in London altogether than travel forty miles to get into a worse air . 
This is just what Perry said . 
It seemed to him a very ill judged measure . 
Emma's attempts to stop her father had been vain and when he had reached such a point as this , she could not wonder at her brother in law's breaking out . 
Mr. Perry , said he , in a voice of very strong displeasure , would do as well to keep his opinion till it is asked for . 
I want his directions no more than his drugs . 
True , true , cried Mr. Knightley , with most ready interposition very true . 
I should not attempt it , if it were to be the means of inconvenience to the Highbury people , but if you call to mind exactly the present line of the path . 
The only way of proving it , however , will be to turn to our maps . 
I shall see you at the Abbey to morrow morning I hope , and then we will look them over , and you shall give me your opinion . 
She had nothing to wish otherwise , but that the days did not pass so swiftly . 
It was a delightful visit perfect , in being much too short . 
In general their evenings were less engaged with friends than their mornings but one complete dinner engagement , and out of the house too , there was no avoiding , though at Christmas . 
Mr. Weston would take no denial they must all dine at Randalls one day even Mr. Woodhouse was persuaded to think it a possible thing in preference to a division of the party . 
Emma called on her the next day , and found her doom already signed with regard to Randalls . 
They joined company and proceeded together . 
Emma was just describing the nature of her friend's complaint a throat very much inflamed , with a great deal of heat about her , a quick , low pulse , c . 
and she was sorry to find from Mrs. Goddard that Harriet was liable to very bad sore throats , and had often alarmed her with them . 
Mr. Elton looked all alarm on the occasion , as he exclaimed , A sore throat ! I hope not infectious . 
I hope not of a putrid infectious sort . 
Has Perry seen her ? Indeed you should take care of yourself as well as of your friend . 
Let me entreat you to run no risks . 
But , upon my word , Mr. Elton , in your case , I should certainly excuse myself . 
You do quite right , said she we will make your apologies to Mr. and Mrs. Weston . 
What a strange thing love is ! he can see ready wit in Harriet , but will not dine alone for her . 
After a few minutes of entire silence between them , John Knightley began with I never in my life saw a man more intent on being agreeable than Mr. Elton . 
It is downright labour to him where ladies are concerned . 
With men he can be rational and unaffected , but when he has ladies to please , every feature works . 
Mr. Elton's manners are not perfect , replied Emma but where there is a wish to please , one ought to overlook , and one does overlook a great deal . 
Where a man does his best with only moderate powers , he will have the advantage over negligent superiority . 
There is such perfect good temper and good will in Mr. Elton as one cannot but value . 
Yes , said Mr. John Knightley presently , with some slyness , he seems to have a great deal of good will towards you . 
I think your manners to him encouraging . 
I speak as a friend , Emma . 
You had better look about you , and ascertain what you do , and what you mean to do . 
I thank you but I assure you you are quite mistaken . 
Emma soon saw that her companion was not in the happiest humour . 
He must think himself a most agreeable fellow I could not do such a thing . 
She could not be complying , she dreaded being quarrelsome her heroism reached only to silence . 
She allowed him to talk , and arranged the glasses , and wrapped herself up , without opening her lips . 
They arrived , the carriage turned , the step was let down , and Mr. Elton , spruce , black , and smiling , was with them instantly . 
Emma thought with pleasure of some change of subject . 
She had sent while dressing , and the answer had been , Much the same not better . 
My report from Mrs. Goddard's , said she presently , was not so pleasant as I had hoped Not better' was my answer . 
His face lengthened immediately and his voice was the voice of sentiment as he answered . 
Very much grieved and concerned I had flattered myself that she must be better after such a cordial as I knew had been given her in the morning . 
Mr. Perry has been with her , as you probably heard . 
Yes I imagined that is I did not He has been used to her in these complaints , and I hope to morrow morning will bring us both a more comfortable report . 
But it is impossible not to feel uneasiness . 
Such a sad loss to our party to day ! Dreadful ! Exactly so , indeed . 
She will be missed every moment . 
This was very proper the sigh which accompanied it was really estimable but it should have lasted longer . 
Emma was rather in dismay when only half a minute afterwards he began to speak of other things , and in a voice of the greatest alacrity and enjoyment . 
What an excellent device , said he , the use of a sheepskin for carriages . 
How very comfortable they make it impossible to feel cold with such precautions . 
The contrivances of modern days indeed have rendered a gentleman's carriage perfectly complete . 
One is so fenced and guarded from the weather , that not a breath of air can find its way unpermitted . 
Weather becomes absolutely of no consequence . 
It is a very cold afternoon but in this carriage we know nothing of the matter . 
Ha ! snows a little I see . 
Yes , said John Knightley , and I think we shall have a good deal of it . 
Christmas weather , observed Mr. Elton . 
This is quite the season indeed for friendly meetings . 
At Christmas every body invites their friends about them , and people think little of even the worst weather . 
I was snowed up at a friend's house once for a week . 
I went for only one night , and could not get away till that very day se'nnight . 
Mr. John Knightley looked as if he did not comprehend the pleasure , but said only , coolly , I cannot wish to be snowed up a week at Randalls . 
At another time Emma might have been amused , but she was too much astonished now at Mr. Elton's spirits for other feelings . 
Harriet seemed quite forgotten in the expectation of a pleasant party . 
We are sure of excellent fires , continued he , and every thing in the greatest comfort . 
Mr. Weston's dining room does not accommodate more than ten comfortably and for my part , I would rather , under such circumstances , fall short by two than exceed by two . 
I think I shall certainly have your approbation , though Mr. Knightley perhaps , from being used to the large parties of London , may not quite enter into our feelings . 
I know nothing of the large parties of London , sir I never dine with any body . 
I had no idea that the law had been so great a slavery . 
Well , sir , the time must come when you will be paid for all this , when you will have little labour and great enjoyment . 
My first enjoyment , replied John Knightley , as they passed through the sweep gate , will be to find myself safe at Hartfield again . 
Mr. Elton must smile less , and Mr. John Knightley more , to fit them for the place . 
Emma only might be as nature prompted , and shew herself just as happy as she was . 
To her it was real enjoyment to be with the Westons . 
The misfortune of Harriet's cold had been pretty well gone through before her arrival . 
Emma's project of forgetting Mr. Elton for a while made her rather sorry to find , when they had all taken their places , that he was close to her . 
She had frequently thought especially since his father's marriage with Miss Taylor that if she were to marry , he was the very person to suit her in age , character and condition . 
He seemed by this connexion between the families , quite to belong to her . 
She could not but suppose it to be a match that every body who knew them must think of . 
I should like to see two more here , your pretty little friend , Miss Smith , and my son and then I should say we were quite complete . 
I believe you did not hear me telling the others in the drawing room that we are expecting Frank . 
I had a letter from him this morning , and he will be with us within a fortnight . 
Emma spoke with a very proper degree of pleasure and fully assented to his proposition of Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Smith making their party quite complete . 
He has been wanting to come to us , continued Mr. Weston , ever since September every letter has been full of it but he cannot command his own time . 
are sometimes to be pleased only by a good many sacrifices . 
But now I have no doubt of seeing him here about the second week in January . 
What a very great pleasure it will be to you ! and Mrs. Weston is so anxious to be acquainted with him , that she must be almost as happy as yourself . 
Yes , she would be , but that she thinks there will be another put off . 
She does not depend upon his coming so much as I do but she does not know the parties so well as I do . 
The case is , that a party of friends are invited to pay a visit at Enscombe in January and that Frank's coming depends upon their being put off . 
If they are not put off , he cannot stir . 
I have not the smallest doubt of the issue . 
I am sorry there should be any thing like doubt in the case , replied Emma but am disposed to side with you , Mr. Weston . 
If you think he will come , I shall think so too for you know Enscombe . 
Yes I have some right to that knowledge though I have never been at the place in my life . 
She is an odd woman ! But I never allow myself to speak ill of her , on Frank's account for I do believe her to be very fond of him . 
I cannot be so sanguine as Mr. Weston . 
I am very much afraid that it will all end in nothing . 
It depends entirely upon his aunt's spirits and pleasure in short , upon her temper . 
To you to my two daughters I may venture on the truth . 
Mrs. Churchill rules at Enscombe , and is a very odd tempered woman and his coming now , depends upon her being willing to spare him . 
Oh , Mrs. Churchill every body knows Mrs. Churchill , replied Isabella and I am sure I never think of that poor young man without the greatest compassion . 
To be constantly living with an ill tempered person , must be dreadful . 
It is what we happily have never known any thing of but it must be a life of misery . 
What a blessing , that she never had any children ! Poor little creatures , how unhappy she would have made them ! Emma wished she had been alone with Mrs. Weston . 
But at present there was nothing more to be said . 
Mr. Woodhouse very soon followed them into the drawing room . 
To be sitting long after dinner , was a confinement that he could not endure . 
Neither wine nor conversation was any thing to him and gladly did he move to those with whom he was always comfortable . 
While he talked to Isabella , however , Emma found an opportunity of saying , And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any means certain . 
I am sorry for it . 
The introduction must be unpleasant , whenever it takes place and the sooner it could be over , the better . 
Yes and every delay makes one more apprehensive of other delays . 
Even if this family , the Braithwaites , are put off , I am still afraid that some excuse may be found for disappointing us . 
I cannot bear to imagine any reluctance on his side but I am sure there is a great wish on the Churchills' to keep him to themselves . 
They are jealous even of his regard for his father . 
In short , I can feel no dependence on his coming , and I wish Mr. Weston were less sanguine . 
He ought to come , said Emma . 
One ought to be at Enscombe , and know the ways of the family , before one decides upon what he can do , replied Mrs. Weston . 
But she is so fond of the nephew he is so very great a favourite . 
I have no doubt of his having , at times , considerable influence but it may be perfectly impossible for him to know beforehand when it will be . 
Emma listened , and then coolly said , I shall not be satisfied , unless he comes . 
Mr. Weston was chatty and convivial , and no friend to early separations of any sort but at last the drawing room party did receive an augmentation . 
Mr. Elton , in very good spirits , was one of the first to walk in . 
Mrs. Weston and Emma were sitting together on a sofa . 
He joined them immediately , and , with scarcely an invitation , seated himself between them . 
He professed himself extremely anxious about her fair friend her fair , lovely , amiable friend . 
Is this fair , Mrs. Weston ? Judge between us . 
Have not I some right to complain ? I am sure of your kind support and aid . 
Something new for your coachman and horses to be making their way through a storm of snow . 
Mrs. Weston and Emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his attention from his son in law , who was pursuing his triumph rather unfeelingly . 
I admired your resolution very much , sir , said he , in venturing out in such weather , for of course you saw there would be snow very soon . 
Every body must have seen the snow coming on . 
I admired your spirit and I dare say we shall get home very well . 
I dare say we shall be all safe at Hartfield before midnight . 
As to there being any quantity of snow fallen or likely to fall to impede their return , that was a mere joke he was afraid they would find no difficulty . 
What is to be done , my dear Emma ? what is to be done ? was Mr. Woodhouse's first exclamation , and all that he could say for some time . 
His eldest daughter's alarm was equal to his own . 
I am not at all afraid . 
I should not mind walking half the way . 
I could change my shoes , you know , the moment I got home and it is not the sort of thing that gives me cold . 
Then , my dear Isabella , it is the most extraordinary sort of thing in the world , for in general every thing does give you cold . 
Walk home ! you are prettily shod for walking home , I dare say . 
It will be bad enough for the horses . 
Isabella turned to Mrs. Weston for her approbation of the plan . 
Mrs. Weston could only approve . 
He had seen the coachmen , and they both agreed with him in there being nothing to apprehend . 
Shall I ring the bell ? Yes , do . 
And the bell was rung , and the carriages spoken for . 
He was afraid they should have a very bad drive . 
He was afraid poor Isabella would not like it . 
And there would be poor Emma in the carriage behind . 
He did not know what they had best do . 
They must keep as much together as they could and James was talked to , and given a charge to go very slow and wait for the other carriage . 
But now , she would rather it had not happened . 
She believed he had been drinking too much of Mr. Weston's good wine , and felt sure that he would want to be talking nonsense . 
Without scruple without apology without much apparent diffidence , Mr. Elton , the lover of Harriet , was professing himself her lover . 
She tried to stop him but vainly he would go on , and say it all . 
Angry as she was , the thought of the moment made her resolve to restrain herself when she did speak . 
She felt that half this folly must be drunkenness , and therefore could hope that it might belong only to the passing hour . 
Command yourself enough to say no more , and I will endeavour to forget it . 
But Mr. Elton had only drunk wine enough to elevate his spirits , not at all to confuse his intellects . 
You have made yourself too clear . 
Mr. Elton , my astonishment is much beyond any thing I can express . 
I have thought only of you . 
I protest against having paid the smallest attention to any one else . 
Every thing that I have said or done , for many weeks past , has been with the sole view of marking my adoration of yourself . 
You cannot really , seriously , doubt it . 
I am sure you have seen and understood me . 
It would be impossible to say what Emma felt , on hearing this which of all her unpleasant sensations was uppermost . 
It confesses that you have long understood me . 
No , sir , cried Emma , it confesses no such thing . 
So far from having long understood you , I have been in a most complete error with respect to your views , till this moment . 
I think seriously of Miss Smith ! Miss Smith is a very good sort of girl and I should be happy to see her respectably settled . 
I have seen you only as the admirer of my friend . 
In no other light could you have been more to me than a common acquaintance . 
I am exceedingly sorry but it is well that the mistake ends where it does . 
But , as it is , the disappointment is single , and , I trust , will not be lasting . 
I have no thoughts of matrimony at present . 
If there had not been so much anger , there would have been desperate awkwardness but their straightforward emotions left no room for the little zigzags of embarrassment . 
Emma then felt it indispensable to wish him a good night . 
The compliment was just returned , coldly and proudly and , under indescribable irritation of spirits , she was then conveyed to Hartfield . 
CHAPTER XVI The hair was curled , and the maid sent away , and Emma sat down to think and be miserable . 
If I had not persuaded Harriet into liking the man , I could have borne any thing . 
She had taken up the idea , she supposed , and made every thing bend to it . 
His manners , however , must have been unmarked , wavering , dubious , or she could not have been so misled . 
The picture ! How eager he had been about the picture ! and the charade ! and an hundred other circumstances how clearly they had seemed to point at Harriet . 
To be sure , the charade , with its ready wit but then the soft eyes in fact it suited neither it was a jumble without taste or truth . 
To Mr. John Knightley was she indebted for her first idea on the subject , for the first start of its possibility . 
There was no denying that those brothers had penetration . 
Contrary to the usual course of things , Mr. Elton's wanting to pay his addresses to her had sunk him in her opinion . 
His professions and his proposals did him no service . 
She thought nothing of his attachment , and was insulted by his hopes . 
There had been no real affection either in his language or manners . 
Sighs and fine words had been given in abundance but she could hardly devise any set of expressions , or fancy any tone of voice , less allied with real love . 
She need not trouble herself to pity him . 
Perhaps it was not fair to expect him to feel how very much he was her inferior in talent , and all the elegancies of mind . 
The very want of such equality might prevent his perception of it but he must know that in fortune and consequence she was greatly his superior . 
He must know that the Woodhouses had been settled for several generations at Hartfield , the younger branch of a very ancient family and that the Eltons were nobody . 
might warrant a man of ordinary observation and delicacy , like Mr. Elton , in fancying himself a very decided favourite . 
If she had so misinterpreted his feelings , she had little right to wonder that he , with self interest to blind him , should have mistaken hers . 
The first error and the worst lay at her door . 
It was foolish , it was wrong , to take so active a part in bringing any two people together . 
It was adventuring too far , assuming too much , making light of what ought to be serious , a trick of what ought to be simple . 
She was quite concerned and ashamed , and resolved to do such things no more . 
Here have I , said she , actually talked poor Harriet into being very much attached to this man . 
Oh ! that I had been satisfied with persuading her not to accept young Martin . 
There I was quite right . 
That was well done of me but there I should have stopped , and left the rest to time and chance . 
I was introducing her into good company , and giving her the opportunity of pleasing some one worth having I ought not to have attempted more . 
But now , poor girl , her peace is cut up for some time . 
She stopt to blush and laugh at her own relapse , and then resumed a more serious , more dispiriting cogitation upon what had been , and might be , and must be . 
To youth and natural cheerfulness like Emma's , though under temporary gloom at night , the return of day will hardly fail to bring return of spirits . 
The weather was most favourable for her though Christmas Day , she could not go to church . 
Mr. Woodhouse would have been miserable had his daughter attempted it , and she was therefore safe from either exciting or receiving unpleasant and most unsuitable ideas . 
No intercourse with Harriet possible but by note no church for her on Sunday any more than on Christmas Day and no need to find excuses for Mr. Elton's absenting himself . 
He was always agreeable and obliging , and speaking pleasantly of every body . 
CHAPTER XVII Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley were not detained long at Hartfield . 
Emma was most agreeably surprized . 
Mr. Elton's absence just at this time was the very thing to be desired . 
She admired him for contriving it , though not able to give him much credit for the manner in which it was announced . 
Resentment could not have been more plainly spoken than in a civility to her father , from which she was so pointedly excluded . 
She had not even a share in his opening compliments . 
It was a very useful note , for it supplied them with fresh matter for thought and conversation during the rest of their lonely evening . 
Mr. Woodhouse talked over his alarms , and Emma was in spirits to persuade them away with all her usual promptitude . 
She now resolved to keep Harriet no longer in the dark . 
She went to Mrs. Goddard's accordingly the very next day , to undergo the necessary penance of communication and a severe one it was . 
The confession completely renewed her first shame and the sight of Harriet's tears made her think that she should never be in charity with herself again . 
Harriet did not consider herself as having any thing to complain of . 
The affection of such a man as Mr. Elton would have been too great a distinction . 
She never could have deserved him and nobody but so partial and kind a friend as Miss Woodhouse would have thought it possible . 
Her second duty now , inferior only to her father's claims , was to promote Harriet's comfort , and endeavour to prove her own affection in some better method than by match making . 
Their being fixed , so absolutely fixed , in the same place , was bad for each , for all three . 
Not one of them had the power of removal , or of effecting any material change of society . 
They must encounter each other , and make the best of it . 
CHAPTER XVIII Mr. Frank Churchill did not come . 
When the time proposed drew near , Mrs. Weston's fears were justified in the arrival of a letter of excuse . 
For the present , he could not be spared , to his very great mortification and regret but still he looked forward with the hope of coming to Randalls at no distant period . 
It soon flies over the present failure , and begins to hope again . 
Emma was not at this time in a state of spirits to care really about Mr. Frank Churchill's not coming , except as a disappointment at Randalls . 
The acquaintance at present had no charm for her . 
at the conduct of the Churchills , in keeping him away . 
The Churchills are very likely in fault , said Mr. Knightley , coolly but I dare say he might come if he would . 
I do not know why you should say so . 
He wishes exceedingly to come but his uncle and aunt will not spare him . 
I cannot believe that he has not the power of coming , if he made a point of it . 
It is too unlikely , for me to believe it without proof . 
If Frank Churchill had wanted to see his father , he would have contrived it between September and January . 
A man at his age what is he ? three or four and twenty cannot be without the means of doing as much as that . 
That's easily said , and easily felt by you , who have always been your own master . 
You are the worst judge in the world , Mr. Knightley , of the difficulties of dependence . 
You do not know what it is to have tempers to manage . 
It is not to be conceived that a man of three or four and twenty should not have liberty of mind or limb to that amount . 
He cannot want money he cannot want leisure . 
We know , on the contrary , that he has so much of both , that he is glad to get rid of them at the idlest haunts in the kingdom . 
We hear of him for ever at some watering place or other . 
A little while ago , he was at Weymouth . 
This proves that he can leave the Churchills . 
Yes , sometimes he can . 
And those times are whenever he thinks it worth his while whenever there is any temptation of pleasure . 
It is very unfair to judge of any body's conduct , without an intimate knowledge of their situation . 
Nobody , who has not been in the interior of a family , can say what the difficulties of any individual of that family may be . 
We ought to be acquainted with Enscombe , and with Mrs. Churchill's temper , before we pretend to decide upon what her nephew can do . 
He may , at times , be able to do a great deal more than he can at others . 
It is Frank Churchill's duty to pay this attention to his father . 
He knows it to be so , by his promises and messages but if he wished to do it , it might be done . 
I know he would be hurt by my failing in such a mark of respect to him on the present occasion . 
I shall , therefore , set off to morrow . 
If he would say so to her at once , in the tone of decision becoming a man , there would be no opposition made to his going . 
No , said Emma , laughing but perhaps there might be some made to his coming back again . 
Such language for a young man entirely dependent , to use ! Nobody but you , Mr. Knightley , would imagine it possible . 
But you have not an idea of what is requisite in situations directly opposite to your own . 
Respect would be added to affection . 
Respect for right conduct is felt by every body . 
If he would act in this sort of manner , on principle , consistently , regularly , their little minds would bend to his . 
The Churchills might not have a word to say in return but then , you would have no habits of early obedience and long observance to break through . 
To him who has , it might not be so easy to burst forth at once into perfect independence , and set all their claims on his gratitude and regard at nought . 
He may have as strong a sense of what would be right , as you can have , without being so equal , under particular circumstances , to act up to it . 
Then it would not be so strong a sense . 
If it failed to produce equal exertion , it could not be an equal conviction . 
Our amiable young man is a very weak young man , if this be the first occasion of his carrying through a resolution to do right against the will of others . 
It ought to have been a habit with him by this time , of following his duty , instead of consulting expediency . 
I can allow for the fears of the child , but not of the man . 
As he became rational , he ought to have roused himself and shaken off all that was unworthy in their authority . 
He ought to have opposed the first attempt on their side to make him slight his father . 
Had he begun as he ought , there would have been no difficulty now . 
We shall never agree about him , cried Emma but that is nothing extraordinary . 
I have not the least idea of his being a weak young man I feel sure that he is not . 
I dare say he has and though it may cut him off from some advantages , it will secure him many others . 
Yes all the advantages of sitting still when he ought to move , and of leading a life of mere idle pleasure , and fancying himself extremely expert in finding excuses for it . 
They seem to satisfy every body else . 
I suspect they do not satisfy Mrs. Weston . 
They hardly can satisfy a woman of her good sense and quick feelings standing in a mother's place , but without a mother's affection to blind her . 
It is on her account that attention to Randalls is doubly due , and she must doubly feel the omission . 
Had she been a person of consequence herself , he would have come I dare say and it would not have signified whether he did or no . 
He may be very aimable , have very good manners , and be very agreeable but he can have no English delicacy towards the feelings of other people nothing really amiable about him . 
You seem determined to think ill of him . 
Me ! not at all , replied Mr. Knightley , rather displeased I do not want to think ill of him . 
Well , if he have nothing else to recommend him , he will be a treasure at Highbury . 
We do not often look upon fine young men , well bred and agreeable . 
We must not be nice and ask for all the virtues into the bargain . 
You will excuse my being so much over powered . 
If I find him conversable , I shall be glad of his acquaintance but if he is only a chattering coxcomb , he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts . 
My idea of him is , that he can adapt his conversation to the taste of every body , and has the power as well as the wish of being universally agreeable . 
I will say no more about him , cried Emma , you turn every thing to evil . 
We are both prejudiced you against , I for him and we have no chance of agreeing till he is really here . 
Prejudiced ! I am not prejudiced . 
But I am very much , and without being at all ashamed of it . 
My love for Mr. and Mrs. Weston gives me a decided prejudice in his favour . 
VOLUME II CHAPTER I Emma and Harriet had been walking together one morning , and , in Emma's opinion , had been talking enough of Mr. Elton for that day . 
They were just approaching the house where lived Mrs. and Miss Bates . 
She determined to call upon them and seek safety in numbers . 
The house belonged to people in business . 
The mention of the Coles was sure to be followed by that of Mr. Elton . 
There was intimacy between them , and Mr. Cole had heard from Mr. Elton since his going away . 
Whenever she is with us , Mrs. Cole does not know how to shew her kindness enough and I must say that Jane deserves it as much as any body can . 
Have you , upon your honour ? said she well , that is quite unexpected . 
Do let me hear what she says . 
Emma's politeness was at hand directly , to say , with smiling interest Have you heard from Miss Fairfax so lately ? I am extremely happy . 
I hope she is well ? Thank you . 
You are so kind ! replied the happily deceived aunt , while eagerly hunting for the letter . 
Oh ! here it is . 
My mother often wonders that I can make it out so well . 
And , indeed , though my mother's eyes are not so good as they were , she can see amazingly well still , thank God ! with the help of spectacles . 
It is such a blessing ! My mother's are really very good indeed . 
All this spoken extremely fast obliged Miss Bates to stop for breath and Emma said something very civil about the excellence of Miss Fairfax's handwriting . 
You are extremely kind , replied Miss Bates , highly gratified you who are such a judge , and write so beautifully yourself . 
I am sure there is nobody's praise that could give us so much pleasure as Miss Woodhouse's . 
My mother does not hear she is a little deaf you know . 
My mother's deafness is very trifling you see just nothing at all . 
By only raising my voice , and saying any thing two or three times over , she is sure to hear but then she is used to my voice . 
But it is very remarkable that she should always hear Jane better than she does me . 
We never were so long without seeing her before , and as I was telling Mrs. Cole , we shall hardly know how to make enough of her now . 
Are you expecting Miss Fairfax here soon ? Oh yes next week . 
Indeed ! that must be a very great pleasure . 
Every body is so surprized and every body says the same obliging things . 
I am sure she will be as happy to see her friends at Highbury , as they can be to see her . 
Yes , Friday or Saturday she cannot say which , because Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one of those days . 
So very good of them to send her the whole way ! But they always do , you know . 
Oh yes , Friday or Saturday next . 
That is what she writes about . 
Yes , so I imagined . 
I was afraid there could be little chance of my hearing any thing of Miss Fairfax to day . 
So obliging of you ! No , we should not have heard , if it had not been for this particular circumstance , of her being to come here so soon . 
My mother is so delighted ! for she is to be three months with us at least . 
Three months , she says so , positively , as I am going to have the pleasure of reading to you . 
The case is , you see , that the Campbells are going to Ireland . 
Mrs. Dixon has persuaded her father and mother to come over and see her directly . 
He is a most amiable , charming young man , I believe . 
Jane was quite longing to go to Ireland , from his account of things . 
Considering the very particular friendship between her and Mrs. Dixon , you could hardly have expected her to be excused from accompanying Colonel and Mrs. Campbell . 
Very true , very true , indeed . 
But you see , every thing turns out for the best . 
He is a most charming young man . 
I am concerned to hear of it . 
I think they judge wisely . 
But Mrs. Dixon must be very much disappointed . 
Mrs. Dixon , I understand , has no remarkable degree of personal beauty is not , by any means , to be compared with Miss Fairfax . 
You are very obliging to say such things but certainly not . 
There is no comparison between them . 
Miss Campbell always was absolutely plain but extremely elegant and amiable . 
Yes , that of course . 
and has never been well since . 
A long time , is not it , for a cold to hang upon her ? She never mentioned it before , because she would not alarm us . 
Nobody could nurse her , as we should do . 
It appears to me the most desirable arrangement in the world . 
And so she is to come to us next Friday or Saturday , and the Campbells leave town in their way to Holyhead the Monday following as you will find from Jane's letter . 
I must tell you what an unlucky thing happened to me , as to that . 
But I cannot imagine how I could be so off my guard . 
If Jane does not get well soon , we will call in Mr. Perry . 
He has a wife and family to maintain , and is not to be giving away his time . 
I am afraid we must be running away , said Emma , glancing at Harriet , and beginning to rise My father will be expecting us . 
I had no intention , I thought I had no power of staying more than five minutes , when I first entered the house . 
And not all that could be urged to detain her succeeded . 
CHAPTER II Jane Fairfax was an orphan , the only child of Mrs. Bates's youngest daughter . 
But the compassionate feelings of a friend of her father gave a change to her destiny . 
When he did return , he sought out the child and took notice of her . 
It was accepted and from that period Jane had belonged to Colonel Campbell's family , and had lived with them entirely , only visiting her grandmother from time to time . 
The plan was that she should be brought up for educating others the very few hundred pounds which she inherited from her father making independence impossible . 
Such was Jane Fairfax's history . 
She had fallen into good hands , known nothing but kindness from the Campbells , and been given an excellent education . 
Neither father nor mother could promote , and the daughter could not endure it . 
The evil day was put off . 
That nature had given it in feature could not be unseen by the young woman , nor could her higher powers of mind be unfelt by the parents . 
She had long resolved that one and twenty should be the period . 
The good sense of Colonel and Mrs. Campbell could not oppose such a resolution , though their feelings did . 
Still , however , affection was glad to catch at any reasonable excuse for not hurrying on the wretched moment . 
With regard to her not accompanying them to Ireland , her account to her aunt contained nothing but truth , though there might be some truths not told . 
These were her reasons she had no better . 
Jane Fairfax was very elegant , remarkably elegant and she had herself the highest value for elegance . 
There , not to be vulgar , was distinction , and merit . 
In that case , nothing could be more pitiable or more honourable than the sacrifices she had resolved on . 
Emma was very willing now to acquit her of having seduced Mr. Dixon's actions from his wife , or of any thing mischievous which her imagination had suggested at first . 
If it were love , it might be simple , single , successless love on her side alone . 
These were charming feelings but not lasting . 
She was , besides , which was the worst of all , so cold , so cautious ! There was no getting at her real opinion . 
Wrapt up in a cloak of politeness , she seemed determined to hazard nothing . 
She was disgustingly , was suspiciously reserved . 
If any thing could be more , where all was most , she was more reserved on the subject of Weymouth and the Dixons than any thing . 
She seemed bent on giving no real insight into Mr. Dixon's character , or her own value for his company , or opinion of the suitableness of the match . 
It was all general approbation and smoothness nothing delineated or distinguished . 
It did her no service however . 
Her caution was thrown away . 
Emma saw its artifice , and returned to her first surmises . 
The like reserve prevailed on other topics . 
She and Mr. Frank Churchill had been at Weymouth at the same time . 
It was known that they were a little acquainted but not a syllable of real information could Emma procure as to what he truly was . 
Was he handsome ? She believed he was reckoned a very fine young man . 
Was he agreeable ? He was generally thought so . 
Did he appear a sensible young man a young man of information ? At a watering place , or in a common London acquaintance , it was difficult to decide on such points . 
Manners were all that could be safely judged of , under a much longer knowledge than they had yet had of Mr. Churchill . 
She believed every body found his manners pleasing . 
Emma could not forgive her . 
He had been used to think her unjust to Jane , and had now great pleasure in marking an improvement . 
A very pleasant evening , he began , as soon as Mr. Woodhouse had been talked into what was necessary , told that he understood , and the papers swept away particularly pleasant . 
You and Miss Fairfax gave us some very good music . 
I am sure Miss Fairfax must have found the evening pleasant , Emma . 
I was glad you made her play so much , for having no instrument at her grandmother's , it must have been a real indulgence . 
I am happy you approved , said Emma , smiling but I hope I am not often deficient in what is due to guests at Hartfield . 
No , my dear , said her father instantly that I am sure you are not . 
There is nobody half so attentive and civil as you are . 
If any thing , you are too attentive . 
The muffin last night if it had been handed round once , I think it would have been enough . 
No , said Mr. Knightley , nearly at the same time you are not often deficient not often deficient either in manner or comprehension . 
I think you understand me , therefore . 
An arch look expressed I understand you well enough but she said only , Miss Fairfax is reserved . 
I always told you she was a little but you will soon overcome all that part of her reserve which ought to be overcome , all that has its foundation in diffidence . 
What arises from discretion must be honoured . 
I do not see it . 
Oh ! no I was pleased with my own perseverance in asking questions and amused to think how little information I obtained . 
I am disappointed , was his only answer . 
I hope every body had a pleasant evening , said Mr. Woodhouse , in his quiet way . 
Once , I felt the fire rather too much but then I moved back my chair a little , a very little , and it did not disturb me . 
Miss Bates was very chatty and good humoured , as she always is , though she speaks rather too quick . 
However , she is very agreeable , and Mrs. Bates too , in a different way . 
I like old friends and Miss Jane Fairfax is a very pretty sort of young lady , a very pretty and a very well behaved young lady indeed . 
She must have found the evening agreeable , Mr. Knightley , because she had Emma . 
True , sir and Emma , because she had Miss Fairfax . 
I am always watching her to admire and I do pity her from my heart . 
I knew you would wish it . 
There will be the leg to be salted , you know , which is so very nice , and the loin to be dressed directly in any manner they like . 
That's right , my dear , very right . 
I had not thought of it before , but that is the best way . 
Emma , said Mr. Knightley presently , I have a piece of news for you . 
You like news and I heard an article in my way hither that I think will interest you . 
News ! Oh ! yes , I always like news . 
Full of thanks , and full of news , Miss Bates knew not which to give quickest . 
Mr. Knightley soon saw that he had lost his moment , and that not another syllable of communication could rest with him . 
Oh ! my dear sir , how are you this morning ? My dear Miss Woodhouse I come quite over powered . 
Such a beautiful hind quarter of pork ! You are too bountiful ! Have you heard the news ? Mr. Elton is going to be married . 
There is my news I thought it would interest you , said Mr. Knightley , with a smile which implied a conviction of some part of what had passed between them . 
But where could you hear it ? cried Miss Bates . 
Oh ! my dear , said I well , and just then came the note . 
A Miss Hawkins that's all I know . 
A Miss Hawkins of Bath . 
But , Mr. Knightley , how could you possibly have heard it ? for the very moment Mr. Cole told Mrs. Cole of it , she sat down and wrote to me . 
A Miss Hawkins I was with Mr. Cole on business an hour and a half ago . 
He had just read Elton's letter as I was shewn in , and handed it to me directly . 
Well ! that is quite I suppose there never was a piece of news more generally interesting . 
My dear sir , you really are too bountiful . 
My mother desires her very best compliments and regards , and a thousand thanks , and says you really quite oppress her . 
If ever there were people who , without having great wealth themselves , had every thing they could wish for , I am sure it is us . 
We may well say that our lot is cast in a goodly heritage . 
Well , Mr. Knightley , and so you actually saw the letter well It was short merely to announce but cheerful , exulting , of course . 
Here was a sly glance at Emma . 
He had been so fortunate as to I forget the precise words one has no business to remember them . 
The information was , as you state , that he was going to be married to a Miss Hawkins . 
By his style , I should imagine it just settled . 
Mr. Elton going to be married ! said Emma , as soon as she could speak . 
He will have every body's wishes for his happiness . 
He is very young to settle , was Mr. Woodhouse's observation . 
He had better not be in a hurry . 
He seemed to me very well off as he was . 
We were always glad to see him at Hartfield . 
This is great news , indeed . 
Jane , you have never seen Mr. Elton ! no wonder that you have such a curiosity to see him . 
Jane's curiosity did not appear of that absorbing nature as wholly to occupy her . 
No I have never seen Mr. Elton , she replied , starting on this appeal is he is he a tall man ? Who shall answer that question ? cried Emma . 
My father would say yes , Mr. Knightley no and Miss Bates and I that he is just the happy medium . 
When you have been here a little longer , Miss Fairfax , you will understand that Mr. Elton is the standard of perfection in Highbury , both in person and mind . 
Very true , Miss Woodhouse , so she will . 
He is the very best young man But , my dear Jane , if you remember , I told you yesterday he was precisely the height of Mr. Perry . 
Miss Hawkins , I dare say , an excellent young woman . 
Jane says that Colonel Campbell is a little deaf . 
He fancied bathing might be good for it the warm bath but she says it did him no lasting benefit . 
Colonel Campbell , you know , is quite our angel . 
And Mr. Dixon seems a very charming young man , quite worthy of him . 
It is such a happiness when good people get together and they always do . 
I say , sir , turning to Mr. Woodhouse , I think there are few places with such society as Highbury . 
I always say , we are quite blessed in our neighbours . 
One feels that it cannot be a very long acquaintance . 
He has been gone only four weeks . 
When I have seen Mr. Elton , replied Jane , I dare say I shall be interested but I believe it requires that with me . 
And as it is some months since Miss Campbell married , the impression may be a little worn off . 
Yes , he has been gone just four weeks , as you observe , Miss Woodhouse , said Miss Bates , four weeks yesterday . 
I do not pretend to it . 
What is before me , I see . 
At the same time , nobody could wonder if Mr. Elton should have aspired Miss Woodhouse lets me chatter on , so good humouredly . 
She knows I would not offend for the world . 
How does Miss Smith do ? She seems quite recovered now . 
Have you heard from Mrs. John Knightley lately ? Oh ! those dear little children . 
Jane , do you know I always fancy Mr. Dixon like Mr. John Knightley . 
I mean in person tall , and with that sort of look and not very talkative . 
Quite wrong , my dear aunt there is no likeness at all . 
Very odd ! but one never does form a just idea of any body beforehand . 
One takes up a notion , and runs away with it . 
Mr. Dixon , you say , is not , strictly speaking , handsome ? Handsome ! Oh ! no far from it certainly plain . 
I told you he was plain . 
My dear , you said that Miss Campbell would not allow him to be plain , and that you yourself Oh ! as for me , my judgment is worth nothing . 
Where I have a regard , I always think a person well looking . 
But I gave what I believed the general opinion , when I called him plain . 
Well , my dear Jane , I believe we must be running away . 
The weather does not look well , and grandmama will be uneasy . 
You are too obliging , my dear Miss Woodhouse but we really must take leave . 
This has been a most agreeable piece of news indeed . 
Thank you , we do indeed . 
I shall not attempt calling on Mrs. Goddard , for I really do not think she cares for any thing but boiled pork when we dress the leg it will be another thing . 
Good morning to you , my dear sir . 
Oh ! Mr. Knightley is coming too . 
Well , that is so very ! I am sure if Jane is tired , you will be so kind as to give her your arm . 
Mr. Elton , and Miss Hawkins ! Good morning to you . 
It was now about the time that she was likely to call . 
As the blow was given , Emma felt that she could not now shew greater kindness than in listening and Harriet , unchecked , ran eagerly through what she had to tell . 
Ford's was the principal woollen draper , linen draper , and haberdasher's shop united the shop first in size and fashion in the place . 
I thought I should have fainted . 
I did not know what to do . 
I was sitting near the door Elizabeth saw me directly but he did not he was busy with the umbrella . 
I could not go away you know , because of the rain but I did so wish myself anywhere in the world but there . 
for presently she came forward came quite up to me , and asked me how I did , and seemed ready to shake hands , if I would . 
Oh ! Miss Woodhouse , do talk to me and make me comfortable again . 
Very sincerely did Emma wish to do so but it was not immediately in her power . 
She was obliged to stop and think . 
She was not thoroughly comfortable herself . 
The young man's conduct , and his sister's , seemed the result of real feeling , and she could not but pity them . 
As Harriet described it , there had been an interesting mixture of wounded affection and genuine delicacy in their behaviour . 
Of course , he must be sorry to lose her they must be all sorry . 
Ambition , as well as love , had probably been mortified . 
Emma learned to be rather glad that there had been such a meeting . 
It had been serviceable in deadening the first shock , without retaining any influence to alarm . 
Mr. Elton returned , a very happy man . 
He came back gay and self satisfied , eager and busy , caring nothing for Miss Woodhouse , and defying Miss Smith . 
She wished him very well but he gave her pain , and his welfare twenty miles off would administer most satisfaction . 
The pain of his continued residence in Highbury , however , must certainly be lessened by his marriage . 
Many vain solicitudes would be prevented many awkwardnesses smoothed by it . 
A Mrs. Elton would be an excuse for any change of intercourse former intimacy might sink without remark . 
It would be almost beginning their life of civility again . 
Of the lady , individually , Emma thought very little . 
She was good enough for Mr. Elton , no doubt accomplished enough for Highbury handsome enough to look plain , probably , by Harriet's side . 
As to connexion , there Emma was perfectly easy persuaded , that after all his own vaunted claims and disdain of Harriet , he had done nothing . 
On that article , truth seemed attainable . 
What she was , must be uncertain but who she was , might be found out and setting aside the , l . 
, it did not appear that she was at all Harriet's superior . 
She brought no name , no blood , no alliance . 
Emma guessed him to be the drudge of some attorney , and too stupid to rise . 
Could she but have given Harriet her feelings about it all ! She had talked her into love but , alas ! she was not so easily to be talked out of it . 
The charm of an object to occupy the many vacancies of Harriet's mind was not to be talked away . 
He might be superseded by another he certainly would indeed nothing could be clearer even a Robert Martin would have been sufficient but nothing else , she feared , would cure her . 
Harriet was one of those , who , having once begun , would be always in love . 
And now , poor girl ! she was considerably worse from this reappearance of Mr. Elton . 
She was always having a glimpse of him somewhere or other . 
Sometimes Mr. Elton predominated , sometimes the Martins and each was occasionally useful as a check to the other . 
Mr. Elton's engagement had been the cure of the agitation of meeting Mr. Martin . 
The unhappiness produced by the knowledge of that engagement had been a little put aside by Elizabeth Martin's calling at Mrs. Goddard's a few days afterwards . 
But Mr. Elton , in person , had driven away all such cares . 
How that visit was to be acknowledged what would be necessary and what might be safest , had been a point of some doubtful consideration . 
Absolute neglect of the mother and sisters , when invited to come , would be ingratitude . 
She went on herself , to give that portion of time to an old servant who was married , and settled in Donwell . 
The quarter of an hour brought her punctually to the white gate again and Miss Smith receiving her summons , was with her without delay , and unattended by any alarming young man . 
She came solitarily down the gravel walk a Miss Martin just appearing at the door , and parting with her seemingly with ceremonious civility . 
Harriet could not very soon give an intelligible account . 
She was feeling too much but at last Emma collected from her enough to understand the sort of meeting , and the sort of pain it was creating . 
She had seen only Mrs. Martin and the two girls . 
In that very room she had been measured last September , with her two friends . 
There were the pencilled marks and memorandums on the wainscot by the window . 
when the carriage reappeared , and all was over . 
The style of the visit , and the shortness of it , were then felt to be decisive . 
It was a bad business . 
She would have given a great deal , or endured a great deal , to have had the Martins in a higher rank of life . 
They were so deserving , that a little higher should have been enough but as it was , how could she have done otherwise ? Impossible ! She could not repent . 
Her mind was quite sick of Mr. Elton and the Martins . 
The refreshment of Randalls was absolutely necessary . 
This is too bad , cried Emma , as they turned away . 
And now we shall just miss them too provoking ! I do not know when I have been so disappointed . 
Presently the carriage stopt she looked up it was stopt by Mr. and Mrs. Weston , who were standing to speak to her . 
We shall enjoy him completely every thing has turned out exactly as we could wish . 
To know that she thought his coming certain was enough to make Emma consider it so , and sincerely did she rejoice in their joy . 
It was a most delightful reanimation of exhausted spirits . 
I shall soon bring him over to Hartfield , said he , at the conclusion . 
Emma could imagine she saw a touch of the arm at this speech , from his wife . 
We had better move on , Mr. Weston , said she , we are detaining the girls . 
Emma could look perfectly unconscious and innocent , and answer in a manner that appropriated nothing . 
Think of me to morrow , my dear Emma , about four o'clock , was Mrs. Weston's parting injunction spoken with some anxiety , and meant only for her . 
Four o'clock ! depend upon it he will be here by three , was Mr. Weston's quick amendment and so ended a most satisfactory meeting . 
Emma's spirits were mounted quite up to happiness every thing wore a different air James and his horses seemed not half so sluggish as before . 
Will Mr. Frank Churchill pass through Bath as well as Oxford ? was a question , however , which did not augur much . 
But neither geography nor tranquillity could come all at once , and Emma was now in a humour to resolve that they should both come in time . 
The clock struck twelve as she passed through the hall . 
I am sure they will bring him soon . 
She opened the parlour door , and saw two gentlemen sitting with her father Mr. Weston and his son . 
He had reached Randalls the evening before . 
She was pleased with the eagerness to arrive which had made him alter his plan , and travel earlier , later , and quicker , that he might gain half a day . 
I told you yesterday , cried Mr. Weston with exultation , I told you all that he would be here before the time named . 
I remembered what I used to do myself . 
The word home made his father look on him with fresh complacency . 
Emma was directly sure that he knew how to make himself agreeable the conviction was strengthened by what followed . 
His manner had no air of study or exaggeration . 
He did really look and speak as if in a state of no common enjoyment . 
Their subjects in general were such as belong to an opening acquaintance . 
He did not advance a word of praise beyond what she knew to be thoroughly deserved by Mrs. Weston but , undoubtedly he could know very little of the matter . 
He understood what would be welcome he could be sure of little else . 
Don't let her imagine that you have spoken of her as a pretty young woman . 
that in addressing Mrs. Weston I should understand whom I might praise without any danger of being thought extravagant in my terms . 
She must see more of him to understand his ways at present she only felt they were agreeable . 
She had no doubt of what Mr. Weston was often thinking about . 
Her own father's perfect exemption from any thought of the kind , the entire deficiency in him of all such sort of penetration or suspicion , was a most comfortable circumstance . 
Happily he was not farther from approving matrimony than from foreseeing it . 
She blessed the favouring blindness . 
A reasonable visit paid , Mr. Weston began to move . 
He had business at the Crown about his hay , and a great many errands for Mrs. Weston at Ford's , but he need not hurry any body else . 
a lady residing in or near Highbury a family of the name of Fairfax . 
I shall have no difficulty , I suppose , in finding the house though Fairfax , I believe , is not the proper name I should rather say Barnes , or Bates . 
Do you know any family of that name ? To be sure we do , cried his father Mrs. Bates we passed her house I saw Miss Bates at the window . 
True , true , you are acquainted with Miss Fairfax I remember you knew her at Weymouth , and a fine girl she is . 
Call upon her , by all means . 
What is right to be done cannot be done too soon . 
And , besides , I must give you a hint , Frank any want of attention to her here should be carefully avoided . 
If you do not call early it will be a slight . 
I have heard her speak of the acquaintance , said Emma she is a very elegant young woman . 
If you were never particularly struck by her manners before , said she , I think you will to day . 
She is staying here on a visit to her grandmama and aunt , very worthy people I have known them all my life . 
They will be extremely glad to see you , I am sure and one of my servants shall go with you to shew you the way . 
My dear sir , upon no account in the world my father can direct me . 
They were permitted to go alone and with a cordial nod from one , and a graceful bow from the other , the two gentlemen took leave . 
CHAPTER VI The next morning brought Mr. Frank Churchill again . 
He came with Mrs. Weston , to whom and to Highbury he seemed to take very cordially . 
He did not doubt there being very pleasant walks in every direction , but if left to him , he should always chuse the same . 
Highbury , that airy , cheerful , happy looking Highbury , would be his constant attraction . 
Highbury , with Mrs. Weston , stood for Hartfield and she trusted to its bearing the same construction with him . 
She was wanting to see him again , and especially to see him in company with Mrs. Weston , upon his behaviour to whom her opinion of him was to depend . 
If he were deficient there , nothing should make amends for it . 
But on seeing them together , she became perfectly satisfied . 
And there was time enough for Emma to form a reasonable judgment , as their visit included all the rest of the morning . 
They were all three walking about together for an hour or two first round the shrubberies of Hartfield , and afterwards in Highbury . 
Some of the objects of his curiosity spoke very amiable feelings . 
He saw no fault in the room , he would acknowledge none which they suggested . 
No , it was long enough , broad enough , handsome enough . 
It would hold the very number for comfort . 
They ought to have balls there at least every fortnight through the winter . 
He argued like a young man very much bent on dancing and Emma was rather surprized to see the constitution of the Weston prevail so decidedly against the habits of the Churchills . 
He seemed to have all the life and spirit , cheerful feelings , and social inclinations of his father , and nothing of the pride or reserve of Enscombe . 
Of pride , indeed , there was , perhaps , scarcely enough his indifference to a confusion of rank , bordered too much on inelegance of mind . 
He could be no judge , however , of the evil he was holding cheap . 
It was but an effusion of lively spirits . 
Yes , oh ! yes he replied I was just going to mention it . 
A very successful visit I saw all the three ladies and felt very much obliged to you for your preparatory hint . 
If the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprize , it must have been the death of me . 
As it was , I was only betrayed into paying a most unreasonable visit . 
joined me there at last , that I had been actually sitting with them very nearly three quarters of an hour . 
The good lady had not given me the possibility of escape before . 
And how did you think Miss Fairfax looking ? Ill , very ill that is , if a young lady can ever be allowed to look ill . 
But the expression is hardly admissible , Mrs. Weston , is it ? Ladies can never look ill . 
And , seriously , Miss Fairfax is naturally so pale , as almost always to give the appearance of ill health . 
A most deplorable want of complexion . 
Emma would not agree to this , and began a warm defence of Miss Fairfax's complexion . 
Where features were indifferent , a fine complexion gave beauty to them all and where they were good , the effect was fortunately he need not attempt to describe what the effect was . 
Well , said Emma , there is no disputing about taste . 
At least you admire her except her complexion . 
He shook his head and laughed . 
I cannot separate Miss Fairfax and her complexion . 
He comes to Highbury himself , he says , six days out of the seven , and has always business at Ford's . 
If it be not inconvenient to you , pray let us go in , that I may prove myself to belong to the place , to be a true citizen of Highbury . 
I must buy something at Ford's . 
It will be taking out my freedom . 
I dare say they sell gloves . 
Oh ! yes , gloves and every thing . 
I do admire your patriotism . 
You will be adored in Highbury . 
You were very popular before you came , because you were Mr. Weston's son but lay out half a guinea at Ford's , and your popularity will stand upon your own virtues . 
Do not let me lose it . 
I assure you the utmost stretch of public fame would not make me amends for the loss of any happiness in private life . 
I merely asked , whether you had known much of Miss Fairfax and her party at Weymouth . 
And now that I understand your question , I must pronounce it to be a very unfair one . 
It is always the lady's right to decide on the degree of acquaintance . 
Miss Fairfax must already have given her account . 
I shall not commit myself by claiming more than she may chuse to allow . 
Upon my word ! you answer as discreetly as she could do herself . 
May I , indeed ? Then I will speak the truth , and nothing suits me so well . 
I met her frequently at Weymouth . 
I had known the Campbells a little in town and at Weymouth we were very much in the same set . 
Colonel Campbell is a very agreeable man , and Mrs. Campbell a friendly , warm hearted woman . 
You know Miss Fairfax's situation in life , I conclude what she is destined to be ? Yes I believe I do . 
You get upon delicate subjects , Emma , said Mrs. Weston smiling remember that I am here . 
Mr. Frank Churchill hardly knows what to say when you speak of Miss Fairfax's situation in life . 
I will move a little farther off . 
I certainly do forget to think of her , said Emma , as having ever been any thing but my friend and my dearest friend . 
He looked as if he fully understood and honoured such a sentiment . 
When the gloves were bought , and they had quitted the shop again , Did you ever hear the young lady we were speaking of , play ? said Frank Churchill . 
Ever hear her ! repeated Emma . 
You forget how much she belongs to Highbury . 
I have heard her every year of our lives since we both began . 
You think so , do you ? I wanted the opinion of some one who could really judge . 
She appeared to me to play well , that is , with considerable taste , but I know nothing of the matter myself . 
I am excessively fond of music , but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any body's performance . 
That , I thought , in a man of known musical talent , was some proof . 
Proof indeed ! said Emma , highly amused . 
Yes , Mr. Dixon and Miss Campbell were the persons and I thought it a very strong proof . 
Certainly very strong it was to own the truth , a great deal stronger than , if I had been Miss Campbell , would have been at all agreeable to me . 
I could not excuse a man's having more music than love more ear than eye a more acute sensibility to fine sounds than to my feelings . 
How did Miss Campbell appear to like it ? It was her very particular friend , you know . 
Poor comfort ! said Emma , laughing . 
It was not very flattering to Miss Campbell but she really did not seem to feel it . 
So much the better or so much the worse I do not know which . 
She must have felt the improper and dangerous distinction . 
As to that I do not Oh ! do not imagine that I expect an account of Miss Fairfax's sensations from you , or from any body else . 
They are known to no human being , I guess , but herself . 
But if she continued to play whenever she was asked by Mr. Dixon , one may guess what one chuses . 
I can only say that there was smoothness outwardly . 
And then , her reserve I never could attach myself to any one so completely reserved . 
It is a most repulsive quality , indeed , said he . 
Oftentimes very convenient , no doubt , but never pleasing . 
There is safety in reserve , but no attraction . 
One cannot love a reserved person . 
Not till the reserve ceases towards oneself and then the attraction may be the greater . 
Intimacy between Miss Fairfax and me is quite out of the question . 
His ideas seemed more moderate his feelings warmer . 
No , he could not believe it a bad house not such a house as a man was to be pitied for having . 
If it were to be shared with the woman he loved , he could not think any man to be pitied for having that house . 
There must be ample room in it for every real comfort . 
The man must be a blockhead who wanted more . 
Mrs. Weston laughed , and said he did not know what he was talking about . 
CHAPTER VII Emma's very good opinion of Frank Churchill was a little shaken the following day , by hearing that he was gone off to London , merely to have his hair cut . 
There was certainly no harm in his travelling sixteen miles twice over on such an errand but there was an air of foppery and nonsense in it which she could not approve . 
It did not accord with the rationality of plan , the moderation in expense , or even the unselfish warmth of heart , which she had believed herself to discern in him yesterday . 
With the exception of this little blot , Emma found that his visit hitherto had given her friend only good ideas of him . 
Mrs. Weston was very ready to say how attentive and pleasant a companion he made himself how much she saw to like in his disposition altogether . 
the honour , in short , of being marked out for her by all their joint acquaintance . 
Mr. Weston , on his side , added a virtue to the account which must have some weight . 
As Mrs. Weston observed , all young people would have their little whims . 
There was one person among his new acquaintance in Surry , not so leniently disposed . 
Although in one instance the bearers of not good tidings , Mr. and Mrs. Weston's visit this morning was in another respect particularly opportune . 
Something occurred while they were at Hartfield , to make Emma want their advice and , which was still more lucky , she wanted exactly the advice they gave . 
With their wealth , their views increased their want of a larger house , their inclination for more company . 
The regular and best families Emma could hardly suppose they would presume to invite neither Donwell , nor Hartfield , nor Randalls . 
Nothing should tempt her to go , if they did and she regretted that her father's known habits would be giving her refusal less meaning than she could wish . 
The Coles were very respectable in their way , but they ought to be taught that it was not for them to arrange the terms on which the superior families would visit them . 
This lesson , she very much feared , they would receive only from herself she had little hope of Mr. Knightley , none of Mr. Weston . 
But she had made up her mind how to meet this presumption so many weeks before it appeared , that when the insult came at last , it found her very differently affected . 
Harriet was to be there in the evening , and the Bateses . 
They had been speaking of it as they walked about Highbury the day before , and Frank Churchill had most earnestly lamented her absence . 
Might not the evening end in a dance ? had been a question of his . 
She owned that , considering every thing , she was not absolutely without inclination for the party . 
The Coles expressed themselves so properly there was so much real attention in the manner of it so much consideration for her father . 
As for his going , Emma did not wish him to think it possible , the hours would be too late , and the party too numerous . 
He was soon pretty well resigned . 
I am not fond of dinner visiting , said he I never was . 
Late hours do not agree with us . 
I am sorry Mr. and Mrs. Cole should have done it . 
The dews of a summer evening are what I would not expose any body to . 
Then turning to Mrs. Weston , with a look of gentle reproach Ah ! Miss Taylor , if you had not married , you would have staid at home with me . 
But the idea of any thing to be done in a moment , was increasing , not lessening , Mr. Woodhouse's agitation . 
The ladies knew better how to allay it . 
Mr. Weston must be quiet , and every thing deliberately arranged . 
With this treatment , Mr. Woodhouse was soon composed enough for talking as usual . 
He should be happy to see Mrs. Goddard . 
He had a great regard for Mrs. Goddard and Emma should write a line , and invite her . 
James could take the note . 
But first of all , there must be an answer written to Mrs. Cole . 
You will make my excuses , my dear , as civilly as possible . 
You will say that I am quite an invalid , and go no where , and therefore must decline their obliging invitation beginning with my compliments , of course . 
But you will do every thing right . 
I need not tell you what is to be done . 
We must remember to let James know that the carriage will be wanted on Tuesday . 
I shall have no fears for you with him . 
We have never been there above once since the new approach was made but still I have no doubt that James will take you very safely . 
And when you get there , you must tell him at what time you would have him come for you again and you had better name an early hour . 
You will not like staying late . 
You will get very tired when tea is over . 
But you would not wish me to come away before I am tired , papa ? Oh ! no , my love but you will soon be tired . 
There will be a great many people talking at once . 
You will not like the noise . 
But , my dear sir , cried Mr. Weston , if Emma comes away early , it will be breaking up the party . 
And no great harm if it does , said Mr. Woodhouse . 
The sooner every party breaks up , the better . 
But you do not consider how it may appear to the Coles . 
Emma's going away directly after tea might be giving offence . 
No , upon no account in the world , Mr. Weston I am much obliged to you for reminding me . 
I should be extremely sorry to be giving them any pain . 
I know what worthy people they are . 
Perry tells me that Mr. Cole never touches malt liquor . 
You would not think it to look at him , but he is bilious Mr. Cole is very bilious . 
No , I would not be the means of giving them any pain . 
My dear Emma , we must consider this . 
I am sure , rather than run the risk of hurting Mr. and Mrs. Cole , you would stay a little longer than you might wish . 
You will not regard being tired . 
You will be perfectly safe , you know , among your friends . 
I have no fears at all for myself and I should have no scruples of staying as late as Mrs. Weston , but on your account . 
I am only afraid of your sitting up for me . 
I am not afraid of your not being exceedingly comfortable with Mrs. Goddard . 
You must promise me not to sit up . 
He came back , had had his hair cut , and laughed at himself with a very good grace , but without seeming really at all ashamed of what he had done . 
He had no reason to wish his hair longer , to conceal any confusion of face no reason to wish the money unspent , to improve his spirits . 
Wickedness is always wickedness , but folly is not always folly . 
It depends upon the character of those who handle it . 
Mr. Knightley , he is not a trifling , silly young man . 
If he were , he would have done this differently . 
He would either have gloried in the achievement , or been ashamed of it . 
There would have been either the ostentation of a coxcomb , or the evasions of a mind too weak to defend its own vanities . 
No , I am perfectly sure that he is not trifling or silly . 
She had provided a plentiful dinner for them she wished she could know that they had been allowed to eat it . 
She had an opportunity now of speaking her approbation while warm from her heart , for he stopped to hand her out . 
This is coming as you should do , said she like a gentleman . 
I am quite glad to see you . 
You might not have distinguished how I came , by my look or manner . 
Yes I should , I am sure I should . 
There is always a look of consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know to be beneath them . 
Now you have nothing to try for . 
You are not afraid of being supposed ashamed . 
You are not striving to look taller than any body else . 
Now I shall really be very happy to walk into the same room with you . 
Nonsensical girl ! was his reply , but not at all in anger . 
Emma had as much reason to be satisfied with the rest of the party as with Mr. Knightley . 
She was received with a cordial respect which could not but please , and given all the consequence she could wish for . 
The first remote sound to which she felt herself obliged to attend , was the name of Jane Fairfax . 
Mrs. Cole seemed to be relating something of her that was expected to be very interesting . 
She listened , and found it well worth listening to . 
That very dear part of Emma , her fancy , received an amusing supply . 
One can suppose nothing else , added Mrs. Cole , and I was only surprized that there could ever have been a doubt . 
But Jane , it seems , had a letter from them very lately , and not a word was said about it . 
She knows their ways best but I should not consider their silence as any reason for their not meaning to make the present . 
They might chuse to surprize her . 
It seemed quite a shame , especially considering how many houses there are where fine instruments are absolutely thrown away . 
We are in great hopes that Miss Woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening . 
Miss Woodhouse made the proper acquiescence and finding that nothing more was to be entrapped from any communication of Mrs. Cole's , turned to Frank Churchill . 
Why do you smile ? said she . 
Nay , why do you ? Me ! I suppose I smile for pleasure at Colonel Campbell's being so rich and so liberal . 
It is a handsome present . 
I rather wonder that it was never made before . 
Perhaps Miss Fairfax has never been staying here so long before . 
Or that he did not give her the use of their own instrument which must now be shut up in London , untouched by any body . 
That is a grand pianoforte , and he might think it too large for Mrs. Bates's house . 
You may say what you chuse but your countenance testifies that your thoughts on this subject are very much like mine . 
I rather believe you are giving me more credit for acuteness than I deserve . 
I smile because you smile , and shall probably suspect whatever I find you suspect but at present I do not see what there is to question . 
If Colonel Campbell is not the person , who can be ? What do you say to Mrs. Dixon ? Mrs. Dixon ! very true indeed . 
I had not thought of Mrs. Dixon . 
It is Mrs. Dixon , I dare say . 
I told you that your suspicions would guide mine . 
If so , you must extend your suspicions and comprehend Mr. Dixon in them . 
Yes , I immediately perceive that it must be the joint present of Mr. and Mrs. Dixon . 
We were speaking the other day , you know , of his being so warm an admirer of her performance . 
Yes , and what you told me on that head , confirmed an idea which I had entertained before . 
Here , she must be leading a life of privation and penance there it would have been all enjoyment . 
As to the pretence of trying her native air , I look upon that as a mere excuse . 
I do not require you to adopt all my suspicions , though you make so noble a profession of doing it , but I honestly tell you what they are . 
And , upon my word , they have an air of great probability . 
Mr. Dixon's preference of her music to her friend's , I can answer for being very decided . 
And then , he saved her life . 
Did you ever hear of that ? A water party and by some accident she was falling overboard . 
I was there one of the party . 
Were you really ? Well ! But you observed nothing of course , for it seems to be a new idea to you . 
If I had been there , I think I should have made some discoveries . 
I dare say you would but I , simple I , saw nothing but the fact , that Miss Fairfax was nearly dashed from the vessel and that Mr. Dixon caught her . 
It was the work of a moment . 
I do not mean to say , however , that you might not have made discoveries . 
The conversation was here interrupted . 
I wanted to know a little more , and this tells me quite enough . 
Depend upon it , we shall soon hear that it is a present from Mr. and Mrs. Dixon . 
And if the Dixons should absolutely deny all knowledge of it we must conclude it to come from the Campbells . 
No , I am sure it is not from the Campbells . 
Miss Fairfax knows it is not from the Campbells , or they would have been guessed at first . 
She would not have been puzzled , had she dared fix on them . 
I may not have convinced you perhaps , but I am perfectly convinced myself that Mr. Dixon is a principal in the business . 
Indeed you injure me if you suppose me unconvinced . 
Your reasonings carry my judgment along with them entirely . 
At first , while I supposed you satisfied that Colonel Campbell was the giver , I saw it only as paternal kindness , and thought it the most natural thing in the world . 
But when you mentioned Mrs. Dixon , I felt how much more probable that it should be the tribute of warm female friendship . 
And now I can see it in no other light than as an offering of love . 
There was no occasion to press the matter farther . 
The conviction seemed real he looked as if he felt it . 
The ladies had not been long in the drawing room , before the other ladies , in their different divisions , arrived . 
In so large a party it was not necessary that Emma should approach her . 
They were soon joined by some of the gentlemen and the very first of the early was Frank Churchill . 
Emma divined what every body present must be thinking . 
She was his object , and every body must perceive it . 
She introduced him to her friend , Miss Smith , and , at convenient moments afterwards , heard what each thought of the other . 
He had never seen so lovely a face , and was delighted with her naivete . 
And she , Only to be sure it was paying him too great a compliment , but she did think there were some looks a little like Mr. Elton . 
Emma restrained her indignation , and only turned from her in silence . 
Smiles of intelligence passed between her and the gentleman on first glancing towards Miss Fairfax but it was most prudent to avoid speech . 
She saw that Enscombe could not satisfy , and that Highbury , taken at its best , might reasonably please a young man who had more retirement at home than he liked . 
His importance at Enscombe was very evident . 
he could with time persuade her to any thing . 
One of those points on which his influence failed , he then mentioned . 
He had wanted very much to go abroad had been very eager indeed to be allowed to travel but she would not hear of it . 
This had happened the year before . 
Now , he said , he was beginning to have no longer the same wish . 
The unpersuadable point , which he did not mention , Emma guessed to be good behaviour to his father . 
I have made a most wretched discovery , said he , after a short pause . 
I have been here a week to morrow half my time . 
I never knew days fly so fast . 
A week to morrow ! And I have hardly begun to enjoy myself . 
But just got acquainted with Mrs. Weston , and others ! I hate the recollection . 
Perhaps you may now begin to regret that you spent one whole day , out of so few , in having your hair cut . 
No , said he , smiling , that is no subject of regret at all . 
I have no pleasure in seeing my friends , unless I can believe myself fit to be seen . 
The rest of the gentlemen being now in the room , Emma found herself obliged to turn from him for a few minutes , and listen to Mr. Cole . 
What is the matter ? said she . 
Thank you for rousing me , he replied . 
I believe I have been very rude but really Miss Fairfax has done her hair in so odd a way so very odd a way that I cannot keep my eyes from her . 
I never saw any thing so outree ! Those curls ! This must be a fancy of her own . 
I see nobody else looking like her ! I must go and ask her whether it is an Irish fashion . 
Shall I ? Yes , I will I declare I will and you shall see how she takes it whether she colours . 
Before he could return to his chair , it was taken by Mrs. Weston . 
This is the luxury of a large party , said she one can get near every body , and say every thing . 
My dear Emma , I am longing to talk to you . 
I have been making discoveries and forming plans , just like yourself , and I must tell them while the idea is fresh . 
How else could they come ? Very true . 
Good soul ! she was as grateful as possible , you may be sure . 
I was quite surprized very glad , I am sure but really quite surprized . 
Such a very kind attention and so thoughtful an attention ! the sort of thing that so few men would think of . 
And , in short , from knowing his usual ways , I am very much inclined to think that it was for their accommodation the carriage was used at all . 
I do suspect he would not have had a pair of horses for himself , and that it was only as an excuse for assisting them . 
Very likely , said Emma nothing more likely . 
I know no man more likely than Mr. Knightley to do the sort of thing to do any thing really good natured , useful , considerate , or benevolent . 
I know he had horses to day for we arrived together and I laughed at him about it , but he said not a word that could betray . 
The more I think of it , the more probable it appears . 
In short , I have made a match between Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax . 
See the consequence of keeping you company ! What do you say to it ? Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax ! exclaimed Emma . 
I cannot at all consent to Mr. Knightley's marrying and I am sure it is not at all likely . 
I am amazed that you should think of such a thing . 
My dear Emma , I have told you what led me to think of it . 
I could not bear to have Henry supplanted . 
Mr. Knightley marry ! No , I have never had such an idea , and I cannot adopt it now . 
And Jane Fairfax , too , of all women ! Nay , she has always been a first favourite with him , as you very well know . 
But the imprudence of such a match ! I am not speaking of its prudence merely its probability . 
I see no probability in it , unless you have any better foundation than what you mention . 
His good nature , his humanity , as I tell you , would be quite enough to account for the horses . 
He has a great regard for the Bateses , you know , independent of Jane Fairfax and is always glad to shew them attention . 
My dear Mrs. Weston , do not take to match making . 
You do it very ill . 
Jane Fairfax mistress of the Abbey ! Oh ! no , no every feeling revolts . 
For his own sake , I would not have him do so mad a thing . 
Imprudent , if you please but not mad . 
Excepting inequality of fortune , and perhaps a little disparity of age , I can see nothing unsuitable . 
But Mr. Knightley does not want to marry . 
I am sure he has not the least idea of it . 
Do not put it into his head . 
He has no occasion to marry , either to fill up his time or his heart . 
My dear Emma , as long as he thinks so , it is so but if he really loves Jane Fairfax Nonsense ! He does not care about Jane Fairfax . 
In the way of love , I am sure he does not . 
If it would be good to her , I am sure it would be evil to himself a very shameful and degrading connexion . 
Not that it was such a very old petticoat either for still it would last a great while and , indeed , she must thankfully say that their petticoats were all very strong . 
For shame , Emma ! Do not mimic her . 
You divert me against my conscience . 
And , upon my word , I do not think Mr. Knightley would be much disturbed by Miss Bates . 
Little things do not irritate him . 
She might talk on and if he wanted to say any thing himself , he would only talk louder , and drown her voice . 
But the question is not , whether it would be a bad connexion for him , but whether he wishes it and I think he does . 
I think he is just the person to do it , even without being in love . 
Then it can be no argument to prove that he is in love . 
But I do not think it is at all a likely thing for him to do . 
Mr. Knightley does nothing mysteriously . 
I have heard him lamenting her having no instrument repeatedly oftener than I should suppose such a circumstance would , in the common course of things , occur to him . 
Very well and if he had intended to give her one , he would have told her so . 
There might be scruples of delicacy , my dear Emma . 
I have a very strong notion that it comes from him . 
I am sure he was particularly silent when Mrs. Cole told us of it at dinner . 
You take up an idea , Mrs. Weston , and run away with it as you have many a time reproached me with doing . 
I see no sign of attachment I believe nothing of the pianoforte and proof only shall convince me that Mr. Knightley has any thought of marrying Jane Fairfax . 
One accompaniment to her song took her agreeably by surprize a second , slightly but correctly taken by Frank Churchill . 
Her pardon was duly begged at the close of the song , and every thing usual followed . 
With mixed feelings , she seated herself at a little distance from the numbers round the instrument , to listen . 
They had sung together once or twice , it appeared , at Weymouth . 
Her objections to Mr. Knightley's marrying did not in the least subside . 
She could see nothing but evil in it . 
It would be a great disappointment to Mr. John Knightley consequently to Isabella . 
A Mrs. Knightley for them all to give way to ! No Mr. Knightley must never marry . 
Little Henry must remain the heir of Donwell . 
Presently Mr. Knightley looked back , and came and sat down by her . 
They talked at first only of the performance . 
His admiration was certainly very warm yet she thought , but for Mrs. Weston , it would not have struck her . 
I often feel concern , said she , that I dare not make our carriage more useful on such occasions . 
It is not that I am without the wish but you know how impossible my father would deem it that James should put to for such a purpose . 
Quite out of the question , quite out of the question , he replied but you must often wish it , I am sure . 
And he smiled with such seeming pleasure at the conviction , that she must proceed another step . 
This present from the Campbells , said she this pianoforte is very kindly given . 
Yes , he replied , and without the smallest apparent embarrassment . 
But they would have done better had they given her notice of it . 
The pleasure is not enhanced , and the inconvenience is often considerable . 
I should have expected better judgment in Colonel Campbell . 
From that moment , Emma could have taken her oath that Mr. Knightley had had no concern in giving the instrument . 
But whether he were entirely free from peculiar attachment whether there were no actual preference remained a little longer doubtful . 
Towards the end of Jane's second song , her voice grew thick . 
That will do , said he , when it was finished , thinking aloud you have sung quite enough for one evening now be quiet . 
Another song , however , was soon begged for . 
One more they would not fatigue Miss Fairfax on any account , and would only ask for one more . 
And Frank Churchill was heard to say , I think you could manage this without effort the first part is so very trifling . 
The strength of the song falls on the second . 
That fellow , said he , indignantly , thinks of nothing but shewing off his own voice . 
And touching Miss Bates , who at that moment passed near Miss Bates , are you mad , to let your niece sing herself hoarse in this manner ? Go , and interfere . 
They have no mercy on her . 
Miss Bates , in her real anxiety for Jane , could hardly stay even to be grateful , before she stept forward and put an end to all farther singing . 
the proposal of dancing originating nobody exactly knew where was so effectually promoted by Mr. and Mrs. Cole , that every thing was rapidly clearing away , to give proper space . 
This would be a trial . 
He was no dancer in general . 
If he were to be very alert in engaging Jane Fairfax now , it might augur something . 
There was no immediate appearance . 
No he was talking to Mrs. Cole he was looking on unconcerned Jane was asked by somebody else , and he was still talking to Mrs. Cole . 
Emma had no longer an alarm for Henry his interest was yet safe and she led off the dance with genuine spirit and enjoyment . 
Not more than five couple could be mustered but the rarity and the suddenness of it made it very delightful , and she found herself well matched in a partner . 
They were a couple worth looking at . 
Two dances , unfortunately , were all that could be allowed . 
It was growing late , and Miss Bates became anxious to get home , on her mother's account . 
After some attempts , therefore , to be permitted to begin again , they were obliged to thank Mrs. Weston , look sorrowful , and have done . 
Perhaps it is as well , said Frank Churchill , as he attended Emma to her carriage . 
I must have asked Miss Fairfax , and her languid dancing would not have agreed with me , after your's . 
CHAPTER IX Emma did not repent her condescension in going to the Coles . 
She must have delighted the Coles worthy people , who deserved to be made happy ! And left a name behind her that would not soon die away . 
Perfect happiness , even in memory , is not common and there were two points on which she was not quite easy . 
She doubted whether she had not transgressed the duty of woman by woman , in betraying her suspicions of Jane Fairfax's feelings to Frank Churchill . 
The other circumstance of regret related also to Jane Fairfax and there she had no doubt . 
She did unfeignedly and unequivocally regret the inferiority of her own playing and singing . 
She did most heartily grieve over the idleness of her childhood and sat down and practised vigorously an hour and a half . 
She was then interrupted by Harriet's coming in and if Harriet's praise could have satisfied her , she might soon have been comforted . 
Oh ! if I could but play as well as you and Miss Fairfax ! Don't class us together , Harriet . 
My playing is no more like her's , than a lamp is like sunshine . 
Oh ! dear I think you play the best of the two . 
I think you play quite as well as she does . 
I am sure I had much rather hear you . 
Every body last night said how well you played . 
Those who knew any thing about it , must have felt the difference . 
The truth is , Harriet , that my playing is just good enough to be praised , but Jane Fairfax's is much beyond it . 
Well , I always shall think that you play quite as well as she does , or that if there is any difference nobody would ever find it out . 
Mr. Cole said how much taste you had and Mr. Frank Churchill talked a great deal about your taste , and that he valued taste much more than execution . 
Ah ! but Jane Fairfax has them both , Harriet . 
Are you sure ? I saw she had execution , but I did not know she had any taste . 
And I hate Italian singing . 
There is no understanding a word of it . 
Besides , if she does play so very well , you know , it is no more than she is obliged to do , because she will have to teach . 
The Coxes were wondering last night whether she would get into any great family . 
How did you think the Coxes looked ? Just as they always do very vulgar . 
They told me something , said Harriet rather hesitatingly but it is nothing of any consequence . 
Emma was obliged to ask what they had told her , though fearful of its producing Mr. Elton . 
They told me that Mr. Martin dined with them last Saturday . 
Oh ! He came to their father upon some business , and he asked him to stay to dinner . 
Oh ! They talked a great deal about him , especially Anne Cox . 
I do not know what she meant , but she asked me if I thought I should go and stay there again next summer . 
She meant to be impertinently curious , just as such an Anne Cox should be . 
She said he was very agreeable the day he dined there . 
He sat by her at dinner . 
Miss Nash thinks either of the Coxes would be very glad to marry him . 
I think they are , without exception , the most vulgar girls in Highbury . 
Harriet had business at Ford's . 
Emma thought it most prudent to go with her . 
Another accidental meeting with the Martins was possible , and in her present state , would be dangerous . 
A mind lively and at ease , can do with seeing nothing , and can see nothing that does not answer . 
She looked down the Randalls road . 
The scene enlarged two persons appeared Mrs. Weston and her son in law they were walking into Highbury to Hartfield of course . 
They were stopping , however , in the first place at Mrs. Bates's whose house was a little nearer Randalls than Ford's and had all but knocked , when Emma caught their eye . 
Immediately they crossed the road and came forward to her and the agreeableness of yesterday's engagement seemed to give fresh pleasure to the present meeting . 
Mrs. Weston informed her that she was going to call on the Bateses , in order to hear the new instrument . 
For my companion tells me , said she , that I absolutely promised Miss Bates last night , that I would come this morning . 
I was not aware of it myself . 
I did not know that I had fixed a day , but as he says I did , I am going now . 
I thought you meant to go with me . 
They would be very much pleased . 
Me ! I should be quite in the way . 
But , perhaps I may be equally in the way here . 
Miss Woodhouse looks as if she did not want me . 
My aunt always sends me off when she is shopping . 
She says I fidget her to death and Miss Woodhouse looks as if she could almost say the same . 
What am I to do ? I am here on no business of my own , said Emma I am only waiting for my friend . 
She will probably have soon done , and then we shall go home . 
But you had better go with Mrs. Weston and hear the instrument . 
Well if you advise it . 
if Colonel Campbell should have employed a careless friend , and if it should prove to have an indifferent tone what shall I say ? I shall be no support to Mrs. Weston . 
She might do very well by herself . 
A disagreeable truth would be palatable through her lips , but I am the wretchedest being in the world at a civil falsehood . 
I do not believe any such thing , replied Emma . 
I am persuaded that you can be as insincere as your neighbours , when it is necessary but there is no reason to suppose the instrument is indifferent . 
Quite otherwise indeed , if I understood Miss Fairfax's opinion last night . 
Do come with me , said Mrs. Weston , if it be not very disagreeable to you . 
It need not detain us long . 
We will go to Hartfield afterwards . 
We will follow them to Hartfield . 
I really wish you to call with me . 
It will be felt so great an attention ! and I always thought you meant it . 
He could say no more and with the hope of Hartfield to reward him , returned with Mrs. Weston to Mrs. Bates's door . 
At last it was all settled , even to the destination of the parcel . 
Should I send it to Mrs. Goddard's , ma'am ? asked Mrs. Ford . 
Yes no yes , to Mrs. Goddard's . 
Only my pattern gown is at Hartfield . 
No , you shall send it to Hartfield , if you please . 
But then , Mrs. Goddard will want to see it . 
And I could take the pattern gown home any day . 
But I shall want the ribbon directly so it had better go to Hartfield at least the ribbon . 
You could make it into two parcels , Mrs. Ford , could not you ? It is not worth while , Harriet , to give Mrs. Ford the trouble of two parcels . 
No trouble in the world , ma'am , said the obliging Mrs. Ford . 
Oh ! but indeed I would much rather have it only in one . 
What do you advise ? That you do not give another half second to the subject . 
To Hartfield , if you please , Mrs. Ford . 
Aye , that will be much best , said Harriet , quite satisfied , I should not at all like to have it sent to Mrs. Goddard's . 
Voices approached the shop or rather one voice and two ladies Mrs. Weston and Miss Bates met them at the door . 
How do you do , Miss Smith ? Very well I thank you . 
And I begged Mrs. Weston to come with me , that I might be sure of succeeding . 
I hope Mrs. Bates and Miss Fairfax are Very well , I am much obliged to you . 
My mother is delightfully well and Jane caught no cold last night . 
How is Mr. Woodhouse ? I am so glad to hear such a good account . 
Mrs. Weston told me you were here . 
Aye , pray do , said Mr. Frank Churchill , Miss Woodhouse's opinion of the instrument will be worth having . 
But , said I , I shall be more sure of succeeding if one of you will go with me . 
The rivet came out , you know , this morning . 
So very obliging ! For my mother had no use of her spectacles could not put them on . 
And , by the bye , every body ought to have two pair of spectacles they should indeed . 
At one time Patty came to say she thought the kitchen chimney wanted sweeping . 
Oh , said I , Patty do not come with your bad news to me . 
Here is the rivet of your mistress's spectacles out . 
And it cannot be for the value of our custom now , for what is our consumption of bread , you know ? Only three of us . 
besides dear Jane at present and she really eats nothing makes such a shocking breakfast , you would be quite frightened if you saw it . 
I dare not let my mother know how little she eats so I say one thing and then I say another , and it passes off . 
Not that I had any doubt before I have so often heard Mr. Woodhouse recommend a baked apple . 
I believe it is the only way that Mr. Woodhouse thinks the fruit thoroughly wholesome . 
We have apple dumplings , however , very often . 
Patty makes an excellent apple dumpling . 
Well , Mrs. Weston , you have prevailed , I hope , and these ladies will oblige us . 
Emma would be very happy to wait on Mrs. Bates , c . 
, and they did at last move out of the shop , with no farther delay from Miss Bates than , How do you do , Mrs. Ford ? I beg your pardon . 
I did not see you before . 
I hear you have a charming collection of new ribbons from town . 
Jane came back delighted yesterday . 
Thank ye , the gloves do very well only a little too large about the wrist but Jane is taking them in . 
What was I talking of ? said she , beginning again when they were all in the street . 
Emma wondered on what , of all the medley , she would fix . 
I declare I cannot recollect what I was talking of . 
Oh ! my mother's spectacles . 
So very obliging of Mr. Frank Churchill ! Oh ! said he , I do think I can fasten the rivet I like a job of this kind excessively . 
Which you know shewed him to be so very . 
Indeed I must say that , much as I had heard of him before and much as I had expected , he very far exceeds any thing . 
I do congratulate you , Mrs. Weston , most warmly . 
He seems every thing the fondest parent could . 
Oh ! said he , I can fasten the rivet . 
I like a job of that sort excessively . 
I never shall forget his manner . 
That , you know , was so very . 
And I am sure , by his manner , it was no compliment . 
The apples themselves are the very finest sort for baking , beyond a doubt all from Donwell some of Mr. Knightley's most liberal supply . 
He sends us a sack every year and certainly there never was such a keeping apple anywhere as one of his trees I believe there is two of them . 
My mother says the orchard was always famous in her younger days . 
I am sure you must be , said he , and I will send you another supply for I have a great many more than I can ever use . 
William Larkins let me keep a larger quantity than usual this year . 
I will send you some more , before they get good for nothing . 
Oh , said I , my dear , I did say as much as I could . 
William Larkins is such an old acquaintance ! I am always glad to see him . 
She could not bear that her master should not be able to have another apple tart this spring . 
And so Patty told me , and I was excessively shocked indeed ! I would not have Mr. Knightley know any thing about it for the world ! He would be so very . 
I wanted to keep it from Jane's knowledge but , unluckily , I had mentioned it before I was aware . 
Pray take care , Mrs. Weston , there is a step at the turning . 
Pray take care , Miss Woodhouse , ours is rather a dark staircase rather darker and narrower than one could wish . 
Miss Smith , pray take care . 
Miss Woodhouse , I am quite concerned , I am sure you hit your foot . 
Miss Smith , the step at the turning . 
Busy as he was , however , the young man was yet able to shew a most happy countenance on seeing Emma again . 
This is a pleasure , said he , in rather a low voice , coming at least ten minutes earlier than I had calculated . 
You find me trying to be useful tell me if you think I shall succeed . 
What ! said Mrs. Weston , have not you finished it yet ? you would not earn a very good livelihood as a working silversmith at this rate . 
You see we have been wedging one leg with paper . 
This was very kind of you to be persuaded to come . 
I was almost afraid you would be hurrying home . 
At last Jane began , and though the first bars were feebly given , the powers of the instrument were gradually done full justice to . 
Whoever Colonel Campbell might employ , said Frank Churchill , with a smile at Emma , the person has not chosen ill . 
I heard a good deal of Colonel Campbell's taste at Weymouth and the softness of the upper notes I am sure is exactly what he and all that party would particularly prize . 
I dare say , Miss Fairfax , that he either gave his friend very minute directions , or wrote to Broadwood himself . 
Do not you think so ? Jane did not look round . 
She was not obliged to hear . 
Mrs. Weston had been speaking to her at the same moment . 
It is not fair , said Emma , in a whisper mine was a random guess . 
He shook his head with a smile , and looked as if he had very little doubt and very little mercy . 
Soon afterwards he began again , How much your friends in Ireland must be enjoying your pleasure on this occasion , Miss Fairfax . 
I dare say they often think of you , and wonder which will be the day , the precise day of the instrument's coming to hand . 
It must be all conjecture . 
Conjecture aye , sometimes one conjectures right , and sometimes one conjectures wrong . 
I wish I could conjecture how soon I shall make this rivet quite firm . 
There , it is done . 
of restoring your spectacles , healed for the present . 
If you are very kind , said he , it will be one of the waltzes we danced last night let me live them over again . 
You did not enjoy them as I did you appeared tired the whole time . 
I believe you were glad we danced no longer but I would have given worlds all the worlds one ever has to give for another half hour . 
What felicity it is to hear a tune again which has made one happy ! If I mistake not that was danced at Weymouth . 
She looked up at him for a moment , coloured deeply , and played something else . 
He took some music from a chair near the pianoforte , and turning to Emma , said , Here is something quite new to me . 
Do you know it ? Cramer . 
And here are a new set of Irish melodies . 
That , from such a quarter , one might expect . 
This was all sent with the instrument . 
Very thoughtful of Colonel Campbell , was not it ? He knew Miss Fairfax could have no music here . 
I honour that part of the attention particularly it shews it to have been so thoroughly from the heart . 
Nothing hastily done nothing incomplete . 
True affection only could have prompted it . 
This amiable , upright , perfect Jane Fairfax was apparently cherishing very reprehensible feelings . 
He brought all the music to her , and they looked it over together . 
Emma took the opportunity of whispering , You speak too plain . 
I would have her understand me . 
I am not in the least ashamed of my meaning . 
But really , I am half ashamed , and wish I had never taken up the idea . 
I am very glad you did , and that you communicated it to me . 
I have now a key to all her odd looks and ways . 
If she does wrong , she ought to feel it . 
She is not entirely without it , I think . 
I do not see much sign of it . 
She is playing Robin Adair at this moment his favourite . 
Shortly afterwards Miss Bates , passing near the window , descried Mr. Knightley on horse back not far off . 
Mr. Knightley I declare ! I must speak to him if possible , just to thank him . 
I will not open the window here it would give you all cold but I can go into my mother's room you know . 
I dare say he will come in when he knows who is here . 
How d' ye do ? how d'ye do ? Very well , I thank you . 
So obliged to you for the carriage last night . 
We were just in time my mother just ready for us . 
Pray come in do come in . 
You will find some friends here . 
How is Miss Fairfax ? I hope she caught no cold last night . 
How is she to day ? Tell me how Miss Fairfax is . 
And Miss Bates was obliged to give a direct answer before he would hear her in any thing else . 
The listeners were amused and Mrs. Weston gave Emma a look of particular meaning . 
But Emma still shook her head in steady scepticism . 
So obliged to you ! so very much obliged to you for the carriage , resumed Miss Bates . 
He cut her short with , I am going to Kingston . 
Can I do anything for you ? Oh ! dear , Kingston are you ? Mrs. Cole was saying the other day she wanted something from Kingston . 
Mrs. Cole has servants to send . 
Can I do any thing for you ? No , I thank you . 
Who do you think is here ? Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith so kind as to call to hear the new pianoforte . 
Do put up your horse at the Crown , and come in . 
Well , said he , in a deliberating manner , for five minutes , perhaps . 
And here is Mrs. Weston and Mr. Frank Churchill too ! Quite delightful so many friends ! No , not now , I thank you . 
I could not stay two minutes . 
I must get on to Kingston as fast as I can . 
Oh ! do come in . 
They will be so very happy to see you . 
No , no your room is full enough . 
I will call another day , and hear the pianoforte . 
Well , I am so sorry ! Oh ! Mr. Knightley , what a delightful party last night how extremely pleasant . 
Did you ever see such dancing ? Was not it delightful ? Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill I never saw any thing equal to it . 
Oh ! very delightful indeed I can say nothing less , for I suppose Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill are hearing every thing that passes . 
I do not see why Miss Fairfax should not be mentioned too . 
I think Miss Fairfax dances very well and Mrs. Weston is the very best country dance player , without exception , in England . 
Now , if your friends have any gratitude , they will say something pretty loud about you and me in return but I cannot stay to hear it . 
You said you had a great many , and now you have not one left . 
We really are so shocked ! Mrs. Hodges may well be angry . 
William Larkins mentioned it here . 
You should not have done it , indeed you should not . 
Ah ! he is off . 
He never can bear to be thanked . 
But I thought he would have staid now , and it would have been a pity not to have mentioned . 
Well , I have not been able to succeed . 
He is going to Kingston . 
He asked me if he could do any thing . 
Yes , said Jane , we heard his kind offers , we heard every thing . 
Oh ! yes , my dear , I dare say you might , because you know , the door was open , and the window was open , and Mr. Knightley spoke loud . 
You must have heard every thing to be sure . 
Can I do any thing for you at Kingston ? said he so I just mentioned . 
Oh ! Miss Woodhouse , must you be going ? You seem but just come so very obliging of you . 
CHAPTER XI It may be possible to do without dancing entirely . 
Frank's was the first idea and his the greatest zeal in pursuing it for the lady was the best judge of the difficulties , and the most solicitous for accommodation and appearance . 
You and Miss Smith , and Miss Fairfax , will be three , and the two Miss Coxes five , had been repeated many times over . 
And there will be the two Gilberts , young Cox , my father , and myself , besides Mr. Knightley . 
Yes , that will be quite enough for pleasure . 
You and Miss Smith , and Miss Fairfax , will be three , and the two Miss Coxes five and for five couple there will be plenty of room . 
But soon it came to be on one side , But will there be good room for five couple ? I really do not think there will . 
On another , And after all , five couple are not enough to make it worth while to stand up . 
Five couple are nothing , when one thinks seriously about it . 
It will not do to invite five couple . 
It can be allowable only as the thought of the moment . 
Somebody said that Miss Gilbert was expected at her brother's , and must be invited with the rest . 
Somebody else believed Mrs. Gilbert would have danced the other evening , if she had been asked . 
The doors of the two rooms were just opposite each other . 
Might not they use both rooms , and dance across the passage ? It seemed the best scheme and yet it was not so good but that many of them wanted a better . 
Emma said it would be awkward Mrs. Weston was in distress about the supper and Mr. Woodhouse opposed it earnestly , on the score of health . 
It made him so very unhappy , indeed , that it could not be persevered in . 
Oh ! no , said he it would be the extreme of imprudence . 
I could not bear it for Emma ! Emma is not strong . 
She would catch a dreadful cold . 
So would poor little Harriet . 
Mrs. Weston , you would be quite laid up do not let them talk of such a wild thing . 
Pray do not let them talk of it . 
That young man is very thoughtless . 
Do not tell his father , but that young man is not quite the thing . 
He has been opening the doors very often this evening , and keeping them open very inconsiderately . 
He does not think of the draught . 
I do not mean to set you against him , but indeed he is not quite the thing ! Mrs. Weston was sorry for such a charge . 
She knew the importance of it , and said every thing in her power to do it away . 
We were too magnificent , said he . 
Ten couple may stand here very well . 
It would be a crowd a sad crowd and what could be worse than dancing without space to turn in ? Very true , he gravely replied it was very bad . 
But still he went on measuring , and still he ended with , I think there will be very tolerable room for ten couple . 
No , no , said she , you are quite unreasonable . 
I agree with you exactly . 
A crowd in a little room Miss Woodhouse , you have the art of giving pictures in a few words . 
Exquisite , quite exquisite ! Still , however , having proceeded so far , one is unwilling to give the matter up . 
It would be a disappointment to my father and altogether I do not know that I am rather of opinion that ten couple might stand here very well . 
Before the middle of the next day , he was at Hartfield and he entered the room with such an agreeable smile as certified the continuance of the scheme . 
It soon appeared that he came to announce an improvement . 
Well , Miss Woodhouse , he almost immediately began , your inclination for dancing has not been quite frightened away , I hope , by the terrors of my father's little rooms . 
I bring a new proposal on the subject a thought of my father's , which waits only your approbation to be acted upon . 
Better accommodations , he can promise them , and not a less grateful welcome than at Randalls . 
It is his own idea . 
Mrs. Weston sees no objection to it , provided you are satisfied . 
This is what we all feel . 
Is not it a good exchange ? You consent I hope you consent ? It appears to me a plan that nobody can object to , if Mr. and Mrs. Weston do not . 
I think it admirable and , as far as I can answer for myself , shall be most happy It seems the only improvement that could be . 
No he thought it very far from an improvement a very bad plan much worse than the other . 
A room at an inn was always damp and dangerous never properly aired , or fit to be inhabited . 
If they must dance , they had better dance at Randalls . 
He had never been in the room at the Crown in his life did not know the people who kept it by sight . 
Oh ! no a very bad plan . 
They would catch worse colds at the Crown than anywhere . 
Sir , said Mr. Woodhouse , rather warmly , you are very much mistaken if you suppose Mr. Perry to be that sort of character . 
Mr. Perry is extremely concerned when any of us are ill . 
But I do not understand how the room at the Crown can be safer for you than your father's house . 
From the very circumstance of its being larger , sir . 
Open the windows ! but surely , Mr. Churchill , nobody would think of opening the windows at Randalls . 
Nobody could be so imprudent ! I never heard of such a thing . 
Ah ! sir but a thoughtless young person will sometimes step behind a window curtain , and throw up a sash , without its being suspected . 
I have often known it done myself . 
Have you indeed , sir ? Bless me ! I never could have supposed it . 
But I live out of the world , and am often astonished at what I hear . 
However , this does make a difference and , perhaps , when we come to talk it over but these sort of things require a good deal of consideration . 
One cannot resolve upon them in a hurry . 
If Mr. and Mrs. Weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning , we may talk it over , and see what can be done . 
But , unfortunately , sir , my time is so limited Oh ! interrupted Emma , there will be plenty of time for talking every thing over . 
There is no hurry at all . 
If it can be contrived to be at the Crown , papa , it will be very convenient for the horses . 
They will be so near their own stable . 
So they will , my dear . 
That is a great thing . 
Not that James ever complains but it is right to spare our horses when we can . 
If I could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly aired but is Mrs. Stokes to be trusted ? I doubt it . 
I do not know her , even by sight . 
I can answer for every thing of that nature , sir , because it will be under Mrs. Weston's care . 
Mrs. Weston undertakes to direct the whole . 
There , papa ! Now you must be satisfied Our own dear Mrs. Weston , who is carefulness itself . 
How often have I heard you speak of it as such a compliment to her ! Aye , very true . 
Mr. Perry did say so . 
I shall never forget it . 
Poor little Emma ! You were very bad with the measles that is , you would have been very bad , but for Perry's great attention . 
He came four times a day for a week . 
He said , from the first , it was a very good sort which was our great comfort but the measles are a dreadful complaint . 
I hope whenever poor Isabella's little ones have the measles , she will send for Perry . 
My father and Mrs. Weston are at the Crown at this moment , said Frank Churchill , examining the capabilities of the house . 
I left them there and came on to Hartfield , impatient for your opinion , and hoping you might be persuaded to join them and give your advice on the spot . 
I was desired to say so from both . 
It would be the greatest pleasure to them , if you could allow me to attend you there . 
They can do nothing satisfactorily without you . 
Emma , said she , this paper is worse than I expected . 
Look ! in places you see it is dreadfully dirty and the wainscot is more yellow and forlorn than any thing I could have imagined . 
My dear , you are too particular , said her husband . 
What does all that signify ? You will see nothing of it by candlelight . 
It will be as clean as Randalls by candlelight . 
We never see any thing of it on our club nights . 
One perplexity , however , arose , which the gentlemen did not disdain . 
It regarded a supper room . 
At the time of the ballroom's being built , suppers had not been in question and a small card room adjoining , was the only addition . 
Mrs. Weston was afraid of draughts for the young people in that passage and neither Emma nor the gentlemen could tolerate the prospect of being miserably crowded at supper . 
Mrs. Weston proposed having no regular supper merely sandwiches , c . 
, set out in the little room but that was scouted as a wretched suggestion . 
A private dance , without sitting down to supper , was pronounced an infamous fraud upon the rights of men and women and Mrs. Weston must not speak of it again . 
She then took another line of expediency , and looking into the doubtful room , observed , I do not think it is so very small . 
We shall not be many , you know . 
It is a mere nothing after all and not the least draught from the stairs . 
I wish , said Mrs. Weston , one could know which arrangement our guests in general would like best . 
To do what would be most generally pleasing must be our object if one could but tell what that would be . 
Yes , very true , cried Frank , very true . 
You want your neighbours' opinions . 
I do not wonder at you . 
If one could ascertain what the chief of them the Coles , for instance . 
They are not far off . 
Shall I call upon them ? Or Miss Bates ? She is still nearer . 
And I do not know whether Miss Bates is not as likely to understand the inclinations of the rest of the people as any body . 
I think we do want a larger council . 
Suppose I go and invite Miss Bates to join us ? Well if you please , said Mrs. Weston rather hesitating , if you think she will be of any use . 
You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates , said Emma . 
She will be all delight and gratitude , but she will tell you nothing . 
She will not even listen to your questions . 
I see no advantage in consulting Miss Bates . 
But she is so amusing , so extremely amusing ! I am very fond of hearing Miss Bates talk . 
And I need not bring the whole family , you know . 
Here Mr. Weston joined them , and on hearing what was proposed , gave it his decided approbation . 
Aye , do , Frank . 
Go and fetch Miss Bates , and let us end the matter at once . 
She will enjoy the scheme , I am sure and I do not know a properer person for shewing us how to do away difficulties . 
We are growing a little too nice . 
She is a standing lesson of how to be happy . 
Both sir ! Can the old lady ? . 
The old lady ! No , the young lady , to be sure . 
I shall think you a great blockhead , Frank , if you bring the aunt without the niece . 
Oh ! I beg your pardon , sir . 
I did not immediately recollect . 
Undoubtedly if you wish it , I will endeavour to persuade them both . 
All the rest , in speculation at least , was perfectly smooth . 
Every body invited , was certainly to come Frank had already written to Enscombe to propose staying a few days beyond his fortnight , which could not possibly be refused . 
And a delightful dance it was to be . 
Most cordially , when Miss Bates arrived , did she agree that it must . 
But this was not judged feasible . 
Enscombe however was gracious , gracious in fact , if not in word . 
His wish of staying longer evidently did not please but it was not opposed . 
To her voluntary communications Emma could get no more approving reply , than , Very well . 
Pleasure in seeing dancing ! not I , indeed I never look at it I do not know who does . 
Fine dancing , I believe , like virtue , must be its own reward . 
Those who are standing by are usually thinking of something very different . 
This Emma felt was aimed at her and it made her quite angry . 
It made her animated open hearted she voluntarily said Oh ! Miss Woodhouse , I hope nothing may happen to prevent the ball . 
What a disappointment it would be ! I do look forward to it , I own , with very great pleasure . 
It was not to oblige Jane Fairfax therefore that he would have preferred the society of William Larkins . 
No ! she was more and more convinced that Mrs. Weston was quite mistaken in that surmise . 
There was a great deal of friendly and of compassionate attachment on his side but no love . 
Alas ! there was soon no leisure for quarrelling with Mr. Knightley . 
Two days of joyful security were immediately followed by the over throw of every thing . 
A letter arrived from Mr. Churchill to urge his nephew's instant return . 
The substance of this letter was forwarded to Emma , in a note from Mrs. Weston , instantly . 
As to his going , it was inevitable . 
He must be gone within a few hours , though without feeling any real alarm for his aunt , to lessen his repugnance . 
He knew her illnesses they never occurred but for her own convenience . 
This wretched note was the finale of Emma's breakfast . 
When once it had been read , there was no doing any thing , but lament and exclaim . 
Her father's feelings were quite distinct . 
He felt the going away almost too much to speak of it . 
His dejection was most evident . 
He sat really lost in thought for the first few minutes and when rousing himself , it was only to say , Of all horrid things , leave taking is the worst . 
But you will come again , said Emma . 
This will not be your only visit to Randalls . 
Our poor ball must be quite given up . 
Oh ! Miss Woodhouse , why are you always so right ? Indeed , I am very sorry to be right in this instance . 
I would much rather have been merry than wise . 
If I can come again , we are still to have our ball . 
My father depends on it . 
Do not forget your engagement . 
Such a fortnight as it has been ! he continued every day more precious and more delightful than the day before ! every day making me less fit to bear any other place . 
I am sure you did not much expect to like us . 
You would not have been so long in coming , if you had had a pleasant idea of Highbury . 
He laughed rather consciously and though denying the sentiment , Emma was convinced that it had been so . 
And you must be off this very morning ? Yes my father is to join me here we shall walk back together , and I must be off immediately . 
I am almost afraid that every moment will bring him . 
Not five minutes to spare even for your friends Miss Fairfax and Miss Bates ? How unlucky ! Miss Bates's powerful , argumentative mind might have strengthened yours . 
Yes I have called there passing the door , I thought it better . 
It was a right thing to do . 
I went in for three minutes , and was detained by Miss Bates's being absent . 
She was out and I felt it impossible not to wait till she came in . 
She is a woman that one may , that one must laugh at but that one would not wish to slight . 
It was better to pay my visit , then He hesitated , got up , walked to a window . 
In short , said he , perhaps , Miss Woodhouse I think you can hardly be quite without suspicion He looked at her , as if wanting to read her thoughts . 
She hardly knew what to say . 
It seemed like the forerunner of something absolutely serious , which she did not wish . 
She believed he was looking at her probably reflecting on what she had said , and trying to understand the manner . 
It was natural for him to feel that he had cause to sigh . 
He could not believe her to be encouraging him . 
My regard for Hartfield is most warm He stopt again , rose again , and seemed quite embarrassed . 
A very few minutes more , however , completed the present trial . 
I shall hear about you all , said he that is my chief consolation . 
I shall hear of every thing that is going on among you . 
I have engaged Mrs. Weston to correspond with me . 
She has been so kind as to promise it . 
Oh ! the blessing of a female correspondent , when one is really interested in the absent ! she will tell me every thing . 
In her letters I shall be at dear Highbury again . 
A very friendly shake of the hand , a very earnest Good bye , closed the speech , and the door had soon shut out Frank Churchill . 
It was a sad change . 
They had been meeting almost every day since his arrival . 
To complete every other recommendation , he had almost told her that he loved her . 
I certainly must , said she . 
Well ! evil to some is always good to others . 
I shall have many fellow mourners for the ball , if not for Frank Churchill but Mr. Knightley will be happy . 
He may spend the evening with his dear William Larkins now if he likes . 
Mr. Knightley , however , shewed no triumphant happiness . 
CHAPTER XIII Emma continued to entertain no doubt of her being in love . 
Her ideas only varied as to the how much . 
At first , she thought it was a good deal and afterwards , but little . 
Their affection was always to subside into friendship . 
Every thing tender and charming was to mark their parting but still they were to part . 
I do not find myself making any use of the word sacrifice , said she . 
In not one of all my clever replies , my delicate negatives , is there any allusion to making a sacrifice . 
I do suspect that he is not really necessary to my happiness . 
I certainly will not persuade myself to feel more than I do . 
I am quite enough in love . 
I should be sorry to be more . 
Upon the whole , she was equally contented with her view of his feelings . 
It would be most inexcusable to do otherwise , as my own mind is quite made up . 
Not that I imagine he can think I have been encouraging him hitherto . 
No , if he had believed me at all to share his feelings , he would not have been so wretched . 
Could he have thought himself encouraged , his looks and language at parting would have been different . 
Still , however , I must be on my guard . 
His feelings are warm , but I can imagine them rather changeable . 
Every consideration of the subject , in short , makes me thankful that my happiness is not more deeply involved . 
The charm of her own name was not wanting . 
Compressed into the very lowest vacant corner were these words I had not a spare moment on Tuesday , as you know , for Miss Woodhouse's beautiful little friend . 
Pray make my excuses and adieus to her . 
This , Emma could not doubt , was all for herself . 
Harriet was remembered only from being her friend . 
Her resolution of refusal only grew more interesting by the addition of a scheme for his subsequent consolation and happiness . 
His recollection of Harriet , and the words which clothed it , the beautiful little friend , suggested to her the idea of Harriet's succeeding her in his affections . 
For Harriet , it would be advantageous and delightful indeed . 
I must not dwell upon it , said she . 
I must not think of it . 
I know the danger of indulging such speculations . 
It was well to have a comfort in store on Harriet's behalf , though it might be wise to let the fancy touch it seldom for evil in that quarter was at hand . 
His wedding day was named . 
He would soon be among them again Mr. Elton and his bride . 
There was hardly time to talk over the first letter from Enscombe before Mr. Elton and his bride was in every body's mouth , and Frank Churchill was forgotten . 
Emma grew sick at the sound . 
She had had three weeks of happy exemption from Mr. Elton and Harriet's mind , she had been willing to hope , had been lately gaining strength . 
Poor Harriet was in a flutter of spirits which required all the reasonings and soothings and attentions of every kind that Emma could give . 
At last Emma attacked her on another ground . 
Your allowing yourself to be so occupied and so unhappy about Mr. Elton's marrying , Harriet , is the strongest reproach you can make me . 
You could not give me a greater reproof for the mistake I fell into . 
It was all my doing , I know . 
I have not forgotten it , I assure you . 
Deceived myself , I did very miserably deceive you and it will be a painful reflection to me for ever . 
Do not imagine me in danger of forgetting it . 
Harriet felt this too much to utter more than a few words of eager exclamation . 
These are the motives which I have been pressing on you . 
They are very important and sorry I am that you cannot feel them sufficiently to act upon them . 
My being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration . 
I want you to save yourself from greater pain . 
Perhaps I may sometimes have felt that Harriet would not forget what was due or rather what would be kind by me . 
This appeal to her affections did more than all the rest . 
There is no charm equal to tenderness of heart , said she afterwards to herself . 
There is nothing to be compared to it . 
Warmth and tenderness of heart , with an affectionate , open manner , will beat all the clearness of head in the world , for attraction , I am sure it will . 
It is tenderness of heart which makes my dear father so generally beloved which gives Isabella all her popularity . 
I have it not but I know how to prize and respect it . 
Harriet is my superior in all the charm and all the felicity it gives . 
Dear Harriet ! I would not change you for the clearest headed , longest sighted , best judging female breathing . 
Oh ! the coldness of a Jane Fairfax ! Harriet is worth a hundred such And for a wife a sensible man's wife it is invaluable . 
A thousand vexatious thoughts would recur . 
She did not really like her . 
She would not be in a hurry to find fault , but she suspected that there was no elegance ease , but not elegance . 
She was almost sure that for a young woman , a stranger , a bride , there was too much ease . 
Her person was rather good her face not unpretty but neither feature , nor air , nor voice , nor manner , were elegant . 
Emma thought at least it would turn out so . 
As for Mr. Elton , his manners did not appear but no , she would not permit a hasty or a witty word from herself about his manners . 
It was an awkward ceremony at any time to be receiving wedding visits , and a man had need be all grace to acquit himself well through it . 
what do you think of her ? Is not she very charming ? There was a little hesitation in Emma's answer . 
Oh ! yes very a very pleasing young woman . 
I think her beautiful , quite beautiful . 
Very nicely dressed , indeed a remarkably elegant gown . 
I am not at all surprized that he should have fallen in love . 
Oh ! no there is nothing to surprize one at all . 
A pretty fortune and she came in his way . 
I dare say , returned Harriet , sighing again , I dare say she was very much attached to him . 
Perhaps she might but it is not every man's fate to marry the woman who loves him best . 
Miss Hawkins perhaps wanted a home , and thought this the best offer she was likely to have . 
Yes , said Harriet earnestly , and well she might , nobody could ever have a better . 
Well , I wish them happy with all my heart . 
And now , Miss Woodhouse , I do not think I shall mind seeing them again . 
He is just as superior as ever but being married , you know , it is quite a different thing . 
No , indeed , Miss Woodhouse , you need not be afraid I can sit and admire him now without any great misery . 
To know that he has not thrown himself away , is such a comfort ! She does seem a charming young woman , just what he deserves . 
Happy creature ! He called her Augusta . 
How delightful ! When the visit was returned , Emma made up her mind . 
She could then see more and judge better . 
Harriet would have been a better match . 
The rich brother in law near Bristol was the pride of the alliance , and his place and his carriages were the pride of him . 
The very first subject after being seated was Maple Grove , My brother Mr. Suckling's seat a comparison of Hartfield to Maple Grove . 
The grounds of Hartfield were small , but neat and pretty and the house was modern and well built . 
Mrs. Elton seemed most favourably impressed by the size of the room , the entrance , and all that she could see or imagine . 
Very like Maple Grove indeed ! She was quite struck by the likeness ! That room was the very shape and size of the morning room at Maple Grove her sister's favourite room . 
Mr. Elton was appealed to . 
Was not it astonishingly like ? She could really almost fancy herself at Maple Grove . 
And the staircase You know , as I came in , I observed how very like the staircase was placed exactly in the same part of the house . 
I have spent so many happy months there ! . 
A charming place , undoubtedly . 
Every body who sees it is struck by its beauty but to me , it has been quite a home . 
Whenever you are transplanted , like me , Miss Woodhouse , you will understand how very delightful it is to meet with any thing at all like what one has left behind . 
I always say this is quite one of the evils of matrimony . 
Emma made as slight a reply as she could but it was fully sufficient for Mrs. Elton , who only wanted to be talking herself . 
So extremely like Maple Grove ! And it is not merely the house the grounds , I assure you , as far as I could observe , are strikingly like . 
People who have extensive grounds themselves are always pleased with any thing in the same style . 
Emma doubted the truth of this sentiment . 
Surry is full of beauties . 
Oh ! yes , I am quite aware of that . 
It is the garden of England , you know . 
Surry is the garden of England . 
Yes but we must not rest our claims on that distinction . 
Many counties , I believe , are called the garden of England , as well as Surry . 
No , I fancy not , replied Mrs. Elton , with a most satisfied smile . 
I never heard any county but Surry called so . 
My brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring , or summer at farthest , continued Mrs. Elton and that will be our time for exploring . 
While they are with us , we shall explore a great deal , I dare say . 
They would hardly come in their chaise , I think , at that season of the year . 
Indeed , when the time draws on , I shall decidedly recommend their bringing the barouche landau it will be so very much preferable . 
We explored to King's Weston twice last summer , in that way , most delightfully , just after their first having the barouche landau . 
You have many parties of that kind here , I suppose , Miss Woodhouse , every summer ? No not immediately here . 
Ah ! there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort . 
Nobody can be more devoted to home than I am . 
I was quite a proverb for it at Maple Grove . 
Many a time has Selina said , when she has been going to Bristol , I really cannot get this girl to move from the house . 
Many a time has she said so and yet I am no advocate for entire seclusion . 
, Your father's state of health must be a great drawback . 
Why does not he try Bath ? Indeed he should . 
Let me recommend Bath to you . 
I assure you I have no doubt of its doing Mr. Woodhouse good . 
Ah ! that's a great pity for I assure you , Miss Woodhouse , where the waters do agree , it is quite wonderful the relief they give . 
And as to its recommendations to you , I fancy I need not take much pains to dwell on them . 
The advantages of Bath to the young are pretty generally understood . 
It would be a charming introduction for you , who have lived so secluded a life and I could immediately secure you some of the best society in the place . 
It was as much as Emma could bear , without being impolite . 
And then , to prevent farther outrage and indignation , changed the subject directly . 
I do not ask whether you are musical , Mrs. Elton . 
Upon these occasions , a lady's character generally precedes her and Highbury has long known that you are a superior performer . 
Oh ! no , indeed I must protest against any such idea . 
A superior performer ! very far from it , I assure you . 
Consider from how partial a quarter your information came . 
You , Miss Woodhouse , I well know , play delightfully . 
I assure you it has been the greatest satisfaction , comfort , and delight to me , to hear what a musical society I am got into . 
I absolutely cannot do without music . 
When he was speaking of it in that way , I honestly said that the world I could give up parties , balls , plays for I had no fear of retirement . 
Blessed with so many resources within myself , the world was not necessary to me . 
I could do very well without it . 
To those who had no resources it was a different thing but my resources made me quite independent . 
And as to smaller sized rooms than I had been used to , I really could not give it a thought . 
I hoped I was perfectly equal to any sacrifice of that description . 
Certainly I had been accustomed to every luxury at Maple Grove but I did assure him that two carriages were not necessary to my happiness , nor were spacious apartments . 
But , said I , to be quite honest , I do not think I can live without something of a musical society . 
I condition for nothing else but without music , life would be a blank to me . 
No , indeed , I have no doubts at all on that head . 
I am delighted to find myself in such a circle . 
I hope we shall have many sweet little concerts together . 
I think , Miss Woodhouse , you and I must establish a musical club , and have regular weekly meetings at your house , or ours . 
Will not it be a good plan ? If we exert ourselves , I think we shall not be long in want of allies . 
They are but too apt to give up music . 
Selina has entirely given up music never touches the instrument though she played sweetly . 
Upon my word it is enough to put one in a fright . 
I used to be quite angry with Selina but really I begin now to comprehend that a married woman has many things to call her attention . 
I believe I was half an hour this morning shut up with my housekeeper . 
But every thing of that kind , said Emma , will soon be in so regular a train Well , said Mrs. Elton , laughing , we shall see . 
Emma , finding her so determined upon neglecting her music , had nothing more to say and , after a moment's pause , Mrs. Elton chose another subject . 
We have been calling at Randalls , said she , and found them both at home and very pleasant people they seem to be . 
Mr. Weston seems an excellent creature quite a first rate favourite with me already , I assure you . 
And she appears so truly good there is something so motherly and kind hearted about her , that it wins upon one directly . 
She was your governess , I think ? Emma was almost too much astonished to answer but Mrs. Elton hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on . 
Having understood as much , I was rather astonished to find her so very lady like ! But she is really quite the gentlewoman . 
Mrs. Weston's manners , said Emma , were always particularly good . 
Their propriety , simplicity , and elegance , would make them the safest model for any young woman . 
And who do you think came in while we were there ? Emma was quite at a loss . 
Knightley is quite the gentleman . 
I like him very much . 
Decidedly , I think , a very gentleman like man . 
Happily , it was now time to be gone . 
They were off and Emma could breathe . 
Insufferable woman ! was her immediate exclamation . 
Worse than I had supposed . 
Absolutely insufferable ! Knightley ! I could not have believed it . 
Actually to discover that Mr. Knightley is a gentleman ! I doubt whether he will return the compliment , and discover her to be a lady . 
I never met with her equal . 
Harriet is disgraced by any comparison . 
Oh ! what would Frank Churchill say to her , if he were here ? How angry and how diverted he would be ! Ah ! there I am thinking of him directly . 
She speaks a little too quick . 
A little quickness of voice there is which rather hurts the ear . 
But I believe I am nice I do not like strange voices and nobody speaks like you and poor Miss Taylor . 
However , she seems a very obliging , pretty behaved young lady , and no doubt will make him a very good wife . 
Though I think he had better not have married . 
But I ought to have gone before . 
Not to wait upon a bride is very remiss . 
Ah ! it shews what a sad invalid I am ! But I do not like the corner into Vicarage Lane . 
I dare say your apologies were accepted , sir . 
Yes but a young lady a bride I ought to have paid my respects to her if possible . 
It was being very deficient . 
It is encouraging people to marry if you make so much of them . 
More is avowedly due to her . 
A bride , you know , my dear , is always the first in company , let the others be who they may . 
Well , papa , if this is not encouragement to marry , I do not know what is . 
And I should never have expected you to be lending your sanction to such vanity baits for poor young ladies . 
My dear , you do not understand me . 
This is a matter of mere common politeness and good breeding , and has nothing to do with any encouragement to people to marry . 
Her father was growing nervous , and could not understand her . 
Her mind returned to Mrs. Elton's offences , and long , very long , did they occupy her . 
CHAPTER XV Emma was not required , by any subsequent discovery , to retract her ill opinion of Mrs. Elton . 
Her observation had been pretty correct . 
Such as Mrs. Elton appeared to her on this second interview , such she appeared whenever they met again , self important , presuming , familiar , ignorant , and ill bred . 
There was no reason to suppose Mr. Elton thought at all differently from his wife . 
He seemed not merely happy with her , but proud . 
In one respect Mrs. Elton grew even worse than she had appeared at first . 
Her feelings altered towards Emma . 
Her manners , too and Mr. Elton's , were unpleasant towards Harriet . 
They were sneering and negligent . 
Emma hoped it must rapidly work Harriet's cure but the sensations which could prompt such behaviour sunk them both very much . 
She was , of course , the object of their joint dislike . 
Mrs. Elton took a great fancy to Jane Fairfax and from the first . 
Before Emma had forfeited her confidence , and about the third time of their meeting , she heard all Mrs. Elton's knight errantry on the subject . 
Jane Fairfax is absolutely charming , Miss Woodhouse . 
I quite rave about Jane Fairfax . 
A sweet , interesting creature . 
So mild and ladylike and with such talents ! I assure you I think she has very extraordinary talents . 
I do not scruple to say that she plays extremely well . 
I know enough of music to speak decidedly on that point . 
Oh ! she is absolutely charming ! You will laugh at my warmth but , upon my word , I talk of nothing but Jane Fairfax . 
And her situation is so calculated to affect one ! Miss Woodhouse , we must exert ourselves and endeavour to do something for her . 
We must bring her forward . 
Such talent as hers must not be suffered to remain unknown . 
I dare say you have heard those charming lines of the poet , Full many a flower is born to blush unseen , And waste its fragrance on the desert air . 
We must not allow them to be verified in sweet Jane Fairfax . 
Oh ! but dear Miss Woodhouse , she is now in such retirement , such obscurity , so thrown away . 
Whatever advantages she may have enjoyed with the Campbells are so palpably at an end ! And I think she feels it . 
I am sure she does . 
She is very timid and silent . 
One can see that she feels the want of encouragement . 
I like her the better for it . 
I must confess it is a recommendation to me . 
I am a great advocate for timidity and I am sure one does not often meet with it . 
But in those who are at all inferior , it is extremely prepossessing . 
Oh ! I assure you , Jane Fairfax is a very delightful character , and interests me more than I can express . 
You and I need not be afraid . 
If we set the example , many will follow it as far as they can though all have not our situations . 
We have carriages to fetch and convey her home , and we live in a style which could not make the addition of Jane Fairfax , at any time , the least inconvenient . 
I should be extremely displeased if Wright were to send us up such a dinner , as could make me regret having asked more than Jane Fairfax to partake of it . 
I have no idea of that sort of thing . 
It is not likely that I should , considering what I have been used to . 
My greatest danger , perhaps , in housekeeping , may be quite the other way , in doing too much , and being too careless of expense . 
Maple Grove will probably be my model more than it ought to be for we do not at all affect to equal my brother , Mr. Suckling , in income . 
However , my resolution is taken as to noticing Jane Fairfax . 
My acquaintance is so very extensive , that I have little doubt of hearing of something to suit her shortly . 
I shall introduce her , of course , very particularly to my brother and sister when they come to us . 
Poor Jane Fairfax ! thought Emma . 
You have not deserved this . 
She looked on with some amusement . 
Miss Bates's gratitude for Mrs. Elton's attentions to Jane was in the first style of guileless simplicity and warmth . 
She was quite one of her worthies the most amiable , affable , delightful woman just as accomplished and condescending as Mrs. Elton meant to be considered . 
Emma's only surprize was that Jane Fairfax should accept those attentions and tolerate Mrs. Elton as she seemed to do . 
She is a riddle , quite a riddle ! said she . 
According to Miss Bates it all came from her Mrs. Dixon had written most pressingly . 
She must be under some sort of penance , inflicted either by the Campbells or herself . 
There is great fear , great caution , great resolution somewhere . 
She is not to be with the Dixons . 
The decree is issued by somebody . 
But why must she consent to be with the Eltons ? Here is quite a separate puzzle . 
Upon her speaking her wonder aloud on that part of the subject , before the few who knew her opinion of Mrs. Elton , Mrs. Weston ventured this apology for Jane . 
We cannot suppose that she has any great enjoyment at the Vicarage , my dear Emma but it is better than being always at home . 
Her aunt is a good creature , but , as a constant companion , must be very tiresome . 
We must consider what Miss Fairfax quits , before we condemn her taste for what she goes to . 
You are right , Mrs. Weston , said Mr. Knightley warmly , Miss Fairfax is as capable as any of us of forming a just opinion of Mrs. Elton . 
Could she have chosen with whom to associate , she would not have chosen her . 
she receives attentions from Mrs. Elton , which nobody else pays her . 
Emma felt that Mrs. Weston was giving her a momentary glance and she was herself struck by his warmth . 
With a faint blush , she presently replied , Such attentions as Mrs. Elton's , I should have imagined , would rather disgust than gratify Miss Fairfax . 
Mrs. Elton's invitations I should have imagined any thing but inviting . 
We cannot give any body the disagreeable hints that we may have been very full of the hour before . 
I know how highly you think of Jane Fairfax , said Emma . 
Little Henry was in her thoughts , and a mixture of alarm and delicacy made her irresolute what else to say . 
Yes , he replied , any body may know how highly I think of her . 
The extent of your admiration may take you by surprize some day or other . 
Mr. Cole gave me a hint of it six weeks ago . 
Emma felt her foot pressed by Mrs. Weston , and did not herself know what to think . 
In a moment he went on That will never be , however , I can assure you . 
Miss Fairfax , I dare say , would not have me if I were to ask her and I am very sure I shall never ask her . 
Emma returned her friend's pressure with interest and was pleased enough to exclaim , You are not vain , Mr. Knightley . 
I will say that for you . 
You have scolded me too much for match making , for me to presume to take such a liberty with you . 
What I said just now , meant nothing . 
One says those sort of things , of course , without any idea of a serious meaning . 
Oh ! no , upon my word I have not the smallest wish for your marrying Jane Fairfax or Jane any body . 
You would not come in and sit with us in this comfortable way , if you were married . 
Mr. Knightley was thoughtful again . 
The result of his reverie was , No , Emma , I do not think the extent of my admiration for her will ever take me by surprize . 
I never had a thought of her in that way , I assure you . 
And soon afterwards , Jane Fairfax is a very charming young woman but not even Jane Fairfax is perfect . 
She has not the open temper which a man would wish for in a wife . 
Emma could not but rejoice to hear that she had a fault . 
Well , said she , and you soon silenced Mr. Cole , I suppose ? Yes , very soon . 
He gave me a quiet hint I told him he was mistaken he asked my pardon and said no more . 
Cole does not want to be wiser or wittier than his neighbours . 
Mrs. Weston , your argument weighs most with me . 
I can much more readily enter into the temptation of getting away from Miss Bates , than I can believe in the triumph of Miss Fairfax's mind over Mrs. Elton . 
I have no faith in Mrs. Elton's acknowledging herself the inferior in thought , word , or deed or in her being under any restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good breeding . 
Jane Fairfax has feeling , said Mr. Knightley I do not accuse her of want of feeling . 
Her sensibilities , I suspect , are strong and her temper excellent in its power of forbearance , patience , self controul but it wants openness . 
She is reserved , more reserved , I think , than she used to be And I love an open temper . 
No till Cole alluded to my supposed attachment , it had never entered my head . 
I saw Jane Fairfax and conversed with her , with admiration and pleasure always but with no thought beyond . 
CHAPTER XVI Every body in and about Highbury who had ever visited Mr. Elton , was disposed to pay him attention on his marriage . 
I see how it is , said she . 
I see what a life I am to lead among you . 
Upon my word we shall be absolutely dissipated . 
We really seem quite the fashion . 
If this is living in the country , it is nothing very formidable . 
From Monday next to Saturday , I assure you we have not a disengaged day ! A woman with fewer resources than I have , need not have been at a loss . 
No invitation came amiss to her . 
Her Bath habits made evening parties perfectly natural to her , and Maple Grove had given her a taste for dinners . 
She was a little shocked at the want of two drawing rooms , at the poor attempt at rout cakes , and there being no ice in the Highbury card parties . 
Emma , in the meanwhile , could not be satisfied without a dinner at Hartfield for the Eltons . 
They must not do less than others , or she should be exposed to odious suspicions , and imagined capable of pitiful resentment . 
A dinner there must be . 
The persons to be invited , required little thought . 
She would rather not be in his company more than she could help . 
She was not yet quite able to see him and his charming happy wife together , without feeling uncomfortable . 
If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased , she would rather stay at home . 
It was precisely what Emma would have wished , had she deemed it possible enough for wishing . 
Since her last conversation with Mrs. Weston and Mr. Knightley , she was more conscience stricken about Jane Fairfax than she had often been . 
Mr. Knightley's words dwelt with her . 
He had said that Jane Fairfax received attentions from Mrs. Elton which nobody else paid her . 
This is very true , said she , at least as far as relates to me , which was all that was meant and it is very shameful . 
Of the same age and always knowing her I ought to have been more her friend . 
She will never like me now . 
I have neglected her too long . 
But I will shew her greater attention than I have done . 
They were all disengaged and all happy . 
The preparatory interest of this dinner , however , was not yet over . 
A circumstance rather unlucky occurred . 
His professional engagements did not allow of his being put off , but both father and daughter were disturbed by its happening so . 
She thought it in reality a sad exchange for herself , to have him with his grave looks and reluctant conversation opposed to her instead of his brother . 
The event was more favourable to Mr. Woodhouse than to Emma . 
John Knightley came but Mr. Weston was unexpectedly summoned to town and must be absent on the very day . 
He might be able to join them in the evening , but certainly not to dinner . 
The day came , the party were punctually assembled , and Mr. John Knightley seemed early to devote himself to the business of being agreeable . 
Instead of drawing his brother off to a window while they waited for dinner , he was talking to Miss Fairfax . 
He had met her before breakfast as he was returning from a walk with his little boys , when it had been just beginning to rain . 
We scarcely got home in time . 
I hope you turned directly . 
I went only to the post office , said she , and reached home before the rain was much . 
It is my daily errand . 
I always fetch the letters when I am here . 
It saves trouble , and is a something to get me out . 
A walk before breakfast does me good . 
Not a walk in the rain , I should imagine . 
No , but it did not absolutely rain when I set out . 
The post office has a great charm at one period of our lives . 
When you have lived to my age , you will begin to think letters are never worth going through the rain for . 
Indifferent ! Oh ! no I never conceived you could become indifferent . 
Letters are no matter of indifference they are generally a very positive curse . 
You are speaking of letters of business mine are letters of friendship . 
I have often thought them the worst of the two , replied he coolly . 
Business , you know , may bring money , but friendship hardly ever does . 
Ah ! you are not serious now . 
I know Mr. John Knightley too well I am very sure he understands the value of friendship as well as any body . 
When I talked of your being altered by time , by the progress of years , said John Knightley , I meant to imply the change of situation which time usually brings . 
I consider one as including the other . 
Time will generally lessen the interest of every attachment not within the daily circle but that is not the change I had in view for you . 
As an old friend , you will allow me to hope , Miss Fairfax , that ten years hence you may have as many concentrated objects as I have . 
It was kindly said , and very far from giving offence . 
A pleasant thank you seemed meant to laugh it off , but a blush , a quivering lip , a tear in the eye , shewed that it was felt beyond a laugh . 
Young ladies should take care of themselves . 
Young ladies are delicate plants . 
They should take care of their health and their complexion . 
My dear , did you change your stockings ? Yes , sir , I did indeed and I am very much obliged by your kind solicitude about me . 
My dear Miss Fairfax , young ladies are very sure to be cared for . 
I hope your good grand mama and aunt are well . 
They are some of my very old friends . 
I wish my health allowed me to be a better neighbour . 
You do us a great deal of honour to day , I am sure . 
My daughter and I are both highly sensible of your goodness , and have the greatest satisfaction in seeing you at Hartfield . 
The kind hearted , polite old man might then sit down and feel that he had done his duty , and made every fair lady welcome and easy . 
By this time , the walk in the rain had reached Mrs. Elton , and her remonstrances now opened upon Jane . 
My dear Jane , what is this I hear ? Going to the post office in the rain ! This must not be , I assure you . 
You sad girl , how could you do such a thing ? It is a sign I was not there to take care of you . 
Jane very patiently assured her that she had not caught any cold . 
Oh ! do not tell me . 
You really are a very sad girl , and do not know how to take care of yourself . 
To the post office indeed ! Mrs. Weston , did you ever hear the like ? You and I must positively exert our authority . 
My advice , said Mrs. Weston kindly and persuasively , I certainly do feel tempted to give . 
Miss Fairfax , you must not run such risks . 
Liable as you have been to severe colds , indeed you ought to be particularly careful , especially at this time of year . 
The spring I always think requires more than common care . 
Better wait an hour or two , or even half a day for your letters , than run the risk of bringing on your cough again . 
Now do not you feel that you had ? Yes , I am sure you are much too reasonable . 
You look as if you would not do such a thing again . 
Oh ! she shall not do such a thing again , eagerly rejoined Mrs. Elton . 
We will not allow her to do such a thing again and nodding significantly there must be some arrangement made , there must indeed . 
shall inquire for yours too and bring them to you . 
That will obviate all difficulties you know and from us I really think , my dear Jane , you can have no scruple to accept such an accommodation . 
You are extremely kind , said Jane but I cannot give up my early walk . 
My dear Jane , say no more about it . 
as far as I can presume to determine any thing without the concurrence of my lord and master . 
You know , Mrs. Weston , you and I must be cautious how we express ourselves . 
But I do flatter myself , my dear Jane , that my influence is not entirely worn out . 
If I meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore , consider that point as settled . 
Excuse me , said Jane earnestly , I cannot by any means consent to such an arrangement , so needlessly troublesome to your servant . 
If the errand were not a pleasure to me , it could be done , as it always is when I am not here , by my grandmama's . 
Oh ! my dear but so much as Patty has to do ! And it is a kindness to employ our men . 
Jane looked as if she did not mean to be conquered but instead of answering , she began speaking again to Mr. John Knightley . 
The post office is a wonderful establishment ! said she . 
The clerks grow expert from habit . 
They must begin with some quickness of sight and hand , and exercise improves them . 
If you want any farther explanation , continued he , smiling , they are paid for it . 
That is the key to a great deal of capacity . 
The public pays and must be served well . 
The varieties of handwriting were farther talked of , and the usual observations made . 
I have heard it asserted , said John Knightley , that the same sort of handwriting often prevails in a family and where the same master teaches , it is natural enough . 
Isabella and Emma , I think , do write very much alike . 
I have not always known their writing apart . 
Yes , said his brother hesitatingly , there is a likeness . 
I know what you mean but Emma's hand is the strongest . 
Isabella and Emma both write beautifully , said Mr. Woodhouse and always did . 
And so does poor Mrs. Weston with half a sigh and half a smile at her . 
No , I can pronounce his name without the smallest distress . 
I certainly get better and better . 
Mrs. Weston was disengaged and Emma began again Mr. Frank Churchill writes one of the best gentleman's hands I ever saw . 
I do not admire it , said Mr. Knightley . 
It is too small wants strength . 
It is like a woman's writing . 
This was not submitted to by either lady . 
They vindicated him against the base aspersion . 
No , it by no means wanted strength it was not a large hand , but very clear and certainly strong . 
Had not Mrs. Weston any letter about her to produce ? No , she had heard from him very lately , but having answered the letter , had put it away . 
If we were in the other room , said Emma , if I had my writing desk , I am sure I could produce a specimen . 
I have a note of his . 
Jane's solicitude about fetching her own letters had not escaped Emma . 
She had heard and seen it all and felt some curiosity to know whether the wet walk of this morning had produced any . 
She thought there was an air of greater happiness than usual a glow both of complexion and spirits . 
She could have made an inquiry or two , as to the expedition and the expense of the Irish mails it was at her tongue's end but she abstained . 
She and Mrs. Weston were obliged to be almost always either talking together or silent together . 
Mrs. Elton left them no choice . 
Here is April come ! said she , I get quite anxious about you . 
June will soon be here . 
But I have never fixed on June or any other month merely looked forward to the summer in general . 
But have you really heard of nothing ? I have not even made any inquiry I do not wish to make any yet . 
Oh ! my dear , we cannot begin too early you are not aware of the difficulty of procuring exactly the desirable thing . 
You do not know how many candidates there always are for the first situations . 
I saw a vast deal of that in the neighbourhood round Maple Grove . 
A cousin of Mr. Suckling , Mrs. Bragge , had such an infinity of applications every body was anxious to be in her family , for she moves in the first circle . 
Wax candles in the schoolroom ! You may imagine how desirable ! Of all houses in the kingdom Mrs. Bragge's is the one I would most wish to see you in . 
Colonel and Mrs. Campbell are to be in town again by midsummer , said Jane . 
I must spend some time with them I am sure they will want it afterwards I may probably be glad to dispose of myself . 
But I would not wish you to take the trouble of making any inquiries at present . 
Trouble ! aye , I know your scruples . 
You are afraid of giving me trouble but I assure you , my dear Jane , the Campbells can hardly be more interested about you than I am . 
I shall write to Mrs. Partridge in a day or two , and shall give her a strict charge to be on the look out for any thing eligible . 
Thank you , but I would rather you did not mention the subject to her till the time draws nearer , I do not wish to be giving any body trouble . 
Excuse me , ma'am , but this is by no means my intention I make no inquiry myself , and should be sorry to have any made by my friends . 
When I am quite determined as to the time , I am not at all afraid of being long unemployed . 
There are places in town , offices , where inquiry would soon produce something Offices for the sale not quite of human flesh but of human intellect . 
But I only mean to say that there are advertising offices , and that by applying to them I should have no doubt of very soon meeting with something that would do . 
Something that would do ! repeated Mrs. Elton . 
A gentleman's family is all that I should condition for . 
For two or three months longer I shall remain where I am , and as I am . 
I admire all that quaint , old fashioned politeness it is much more to my taste than modern ease modern ease often disgusts me . 
But this good old Mr. Woodhouse , I wish you had heard his gallant speeches to me at dinner . 
Oh ! I assure you I began to think my caro sposo would be absolutely jealous . 
I fancy I am rather a favourite he took notice of my gown . 
I must put on a few ornaments now , because it is expected of me . 
A bride , you know , must appear like a bride , but my natural taste is all for simplicity a simple style of dress is so infinitely preferable to finery . 
But I am quite in the minority , I believe few people seem to value simplicity of dress , show and finery are every thing . 
I have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin . 
Do you think it will look well ? The whole party were but just reassembled in the drawing room when Mr. Weston made his appearance among them . 
He had returned to a late dinner , and walked to Hartfield as soon as it was over . 
He had been too much expected by the best judges , for surprize but there was great joy . 
Mr. Woodhouse was almost as glad to see him now , as he would have been sorry to see him before . 
John Knightley only was in mute astonishment . 
John Knightley looked at him with amazement , then shrugged his shoulders , and said , I could not have believed it even of him . 
He gave her a letter , it was from Frank , and to herself he had met with it in his way , and had taken the liberty of opening it . 
Read it , read it , said he , it will give you pleasure only a few lines will not take you long read it to Emma . 
The two ladies looked over it together and he sat smiling and talking to them the whole time , in a voice a little subdued , but very audible to every body . 
Well , he is coming , you see good news , I think . 
As to her illness , all nothing of course . 
But it is an excellent thing to have Frank among us again , so near as town . 
They will stay a good while when they do come , and he will be half his time with us . 
This is precisely what I wanted . 
I shall only just mention the circumstance to the others in a common way . 
Mrs. Weston was most comfortably pleased on the occasion . 
Her looks and words had nothing to restrain them . 
She was happy , she knew she was happy , and knew she ought to be happy . 
Her congratulations were warm and open but Emma could not speak so fluently . 
She was a little occupied in weighing her own feelings , and trying to understand the degree of her agitation , which she rather thought was considerable . 
It was well that he took every body's joy for granted , or he might not have thought either Mr. Woodhouse or Mr. Knightley particularly delighted . 
CHAPTER XVIII I hope I shall soon have the pleasure of introducing my son to you , said Mr. Weston . 
Mrs. Elton , very willing to suppose a particular compliment intended her by such a hope , smiled most graciously . 
You have heard of a certain Frank Churchill , I presume , he continued and know him to be my son , though he does not bear my name . 
Oh ! yes , and I shall be very happy in his acquaintance . 
I am sure Mr. Elton will lose no time in calling on him and we shall both have great pleasure in seeing him at the Vicarage . 
Frank will be extremely happy , I am sure . 
He is to be in town next week , if not sooner . 
We have notice of it in a letter to day . 
I met the letters in my way this morning , and seeing my son's hand , presumed to open it though it was not directed to me it was to Mrs. Weston . 
She is his principal correspondent , I assure you . 
I hardly ever get a letter . 
And so you absolutely opened what was directed to her ! Oh ! Mr. Weston I must protest against that . 
A most dangerous precedent indeed ! I beg you will not let your neighbours follow your example . 
You must take care of yourself , Mrs. Elton . 
Indeed ! from Yorkshire , I think . 
Enscombe is in Yorkshire ? Yes , they are about one hundred and ninety miles from London . 
Yes , upon my word , very considerable . 
Sixty five miles farther than from Maple Grove to London . 
But what is distance , Mr. Weston , to people of large fortune ? You would be amazed to hear how my brother , Mr. Suckling , sometimes flies about . 
You will hardly believe me but twice in one week he and Mr. Bragge went to London and back again with four horses . 
Certainly , delicate ladies have very extraordinary constitutions , Mrs. Elton . 
You must grant me that . 
No , indeed , I shall grant you nothing . 
I Always take the part of my own sex . 
I give you notice You will find me a formidable antagonist on that point . 
Selina says it is quite horror to her and I believe I have caught a little of her nicety . 
She always travels with her own sheets an excellent precaution . 
Does Mrs. Churchill do the same ? Depend upon it , Mrs. Churchill does every thing that any other fine lady ever did . 
Mrs. Churchill will not be second to any lady in the land for Mrs. Elton eagerly interposed with , Oh ! Mr. Weston , do not mistake me . 
Selina is no fine lady , I assure you . 
Do not run away with such an idea . 
Is not she ? Then she is no rule for Mrs. Churchill , who is as thorough a fine lady as any body ever beheld . 
Mrs. Elton began to think she had been wrong in disclaiming so warmly . 
Mrs. Churchill is not much in my good graces , as you may suspect but this is quite between ourselves . 
She is very fond of Frank , and therefore I would not speak ill of her . 
Besides , she is out of health now but that indeed , by her own account , she has always been . 
I would not say so to every body , Mrs. Elton , but I have not much faith in Mrs. Churchill's illness . 
The fact is , I suppose , that she is tired of Enscombe . 
She has now been a longer time stationary there , than she ever was before , and she begins to want change . 
It is a retired place . 
A fine place , but very retired . 
Aye like Maple Grove , I dare say . 
Nothing can stand more retired from the road than Maple Grove . 
Such an immense plantation all round it ! You seem shut out from every thing in the most complete retirement . 
And Mrs. Churchill probably has not health or spirits like Selina to enjoy that sort of seclusion . 
Or , perhaps she may not have resources enough in herself to be qualified for a country life . 
I always say a woman cannot have too many resources and I feel very thankful that I have so many myself as to be quite independent of society . 
Frank was here in February for a fortnight . 
So I remember to have heard . 
He will find an addition to the society of Highbury when he comes again that is , if I may presume to call myself an addition . 
But perhaps he may never have heard of there being such a creature in the world . 
Not heard of you ! I believe Mrs. Weston's letters lately have been full of very little else than Mrs. Elton . 
He had done his duty and could return to his son . 
When Frank left us , continued he , it was quite uncertain when we might see him again , which makes this day's news doubly welcome . 
It has been completely unexpected . 
That is , I always had a strong persuasion he would be here again soon , I was sure something favourable would turn up but nobody believed me . 
He and Mrs. Weston were both dreadfully desponding . 
I have observed , Mrs. Elton , in the course of my life , that if things are going untowardly one month , they are sure to mend the next . 
Very true , Mr. Weston , perfectly true . 
She was stopped by a slight fit of coughing , and Mr. Weston instantly seized the opportunity of going on . 
Now will be the time . 
I think it is so . 
I think it is the state of mind which gives most spirit and delight . 
I hope you will be pleased with my son but you must not expect a prodigy . 
He is generally thought a fine young man , but do not expect a prodigy . 
Mrs. Weston's partiality for him is very great , and , as you may suppose , most gratifying to me . 
She thinks nobody equal to him . 
And I assure you , Mr. Weston , I have very little doubt that my opinion will be decidedly in his favour . 
I have heard so much in praise of Mr. Frank Churchill . 
At the same time it is fair to observe , that I am one of those who always judge for themselves , and are by no means implicitly guided by others . 
I give you notice that as I find your son , so I shall judge of him . 
I hope , said he presently , I have not been severe upon poor Mrs. Churchill . 
Frank's mother would never have been slighted as she was but for her . 
Only think ! well , that must be infinitely provoking ! I have quite a horror of upstarts . 
A year and a half is the very utmost that they can have lived at West Hall and how they got their fortune nobody knows . 
They came from Birmingham , which is not a place to promise much , you know , Mr. Weston . 
One has not great hopes from Birmingham . 
It is infinitely too bad . 
Tea was carrying round , and Mr. Weston , having said all that he wanted , soon took the opportunity of walking away . 
After tea , Mr. and Mrs. Weston , and Mr. Elton sat down with Mr. Woodhouse to cards . 
Mr. John Knightley proved more talkative than his brother . 
And if you find them troublesome , you must send them home again . 
Increase ! Certainly you must be sensible that the last half year has made a great difference in your way of life . 
Difference ! No indeed I am not . 
There can be no doubt of your being much more engaged with company than you used to be . 
A little while ago , every letter to Isabella brought an account of fresh gaieties dinners at Mr. Cole's , or balls at the Crown . 
The difference which Randalls , Randalls alone makes in your goings on , is very great . 
Yes , said his brother quickly , it is Randalls that does it all . 
And if they are , I only beg you to send them home . 
No , cried Mr. Knightley , that need not be the consequence . 
Let them be sent to Donwell . 
I shall certainly be at leisure . 
These amazing engagements of mine what have they been ? Dining once with the Coles and having a ball talked of , which never took place . 
your good fortune in meeting with so many of your friends at once here , delights you too much to pass unnoticed . 
who know how very , very seldom I am ever two hours from Hartfield , why you should foresee such a series of dissipation for me , I cannot imagine . 
Mr. Knightley seemed to be trying not to smile and succeeded without difficulty , upon Mrs. Elton's beginning to talk to him . 
VOLUME III CHAPTER I A very little quiet reflection was enough to satisfy Emma as to the nature of her agitation on hearing this news of Frank Churchill . 
She was soon convinced that it was not for herself she was feeling at all apprehensive or embarrassed it was for him . 
If a separation of two months should not have cooled him , there were dangers and evils before her caution for him and for herself would be necessary . 
She did not mean to have her own affections entangled again , and it would be incumbent on her to avoid any encouragement of his . 
She wished she might be able to keep him from an absolute declaration . 
That would be so very painful a conclusion of their present acquaintance ! and yet , she could not help rather anticipating something decisive . 
She felt as if the spring would not pass without bringing a crisis , an event , a something to alter her present composed and tranquil state . 
It was not very long , though rather longer than Mr. Weston had foreseen , before she had the power of forming some opinion of Frank Churchill's feelings . 
The Enscombe family were not in town quite so soon as had been imagined , but he was at Highbury very soon afterwards . 
They met with the utmost friendliness . 
There could be no doubt of his great pleasure in seeing her . 
But she had an almost instant doubt of his caring for her as he had done , of his feeling the same tenderness in the same degree . 
It was a clear thing he was less in love than he had been . 
Absence , with the conviction probably of her indifference , had produced this very natural and very desirable effect . 
It was not in his calmness that she read his comparative difference . 
He was not calm his spirits were evidently fluttered there was restlessness about him . 
This was the only visit from Frank Churchill in the course of ten days . 
He was often hoping , intending to come but was always prevented . 
His aunt could not bear to have him leave her . 
Such was his own account at Randall's . 
That she was really ill was very certain he had declared himself convinced of it , at Randalls . 
Though much might be fancy , he could not doubt , when he looked back , that she was in a weaker state of health than she had been half a year ago . 
It soon appeared that London was not the place for her . 
She could not endure its noise . 
Her nerves were under continual irritation and suffering and by the ten days' end , her nephew's letter to Randalls communicated a change of plan . 
They were going to remove immediately to Richmond . 
Mrs. Churchill had been recommended to the medical skill of an eminent person there , and had otherwise a fancy for the place . 
A ready furnished house in a favourite spot was engaged , and much benefit expected from the change . 
She was told that now he wrote with the greatest confidence of being often with them , almost as often as he could even wish . 
Emma saw how Mr. Weston understood these joyous prospects . 
He was considering her as the source of all the happiness they offered . 
She hoped it was not so . 
Two months must bring it to the proof . 
Mr. Weston's own happiness was indisputable . 
It was the very circumstance he could have wished for . 
Now , it would be really having Frank in their neighbourhood . 
What were nine miles to a young man ? An hour's ride . 
He would be always coming over . 
The difference in that respect of Richmond and London was enough to make the whole difference of seeing him always and seeing him never . 
Sixteen miles nay , eighteen it must be full eighteen to Manchester street was a serious obstacle . 
Were he ever able to get away , the day would be spent in coming and returning . 
There was no comfort in having him in London he might as well be at Enscombe but Richmond was the very distance for easy intercourse . 
Better than nearer ! One good thing was immediately brought to a certainty by this removal , the ball at the Crown . 
It had not been forgotten before , but it had been soon acknowledged vain to attempt to fix a day . 
Mr. Weston's ball was to be a real thing . 
A very few to morrows stood between the young people of Highbury and happiness . 
The time of year lightened the evil to him . 
May was better for every thing than February . 
CHAPTER II No misfortune occurred , again to prevent the ball . 
No second meeting had there yet been between him and Emma . 
The room at the Crown was to witness it but it would be better than a common meeting in a crowd . 
She was to convey Harriet , and they drove to the Crown in good time , the Randalls party just sufficiently before them . 
Frank Churchill seemed to have been on the watch and though he did not say much , his eyes declared that he meant to have a delightful evening . 
She liked his open manners , but a little less of open heartedness would have made him a higher character . 
General benevolence , but not general friendship , made a man what he ought to be . 
She could fancy such a man . 
Emma found that it was not Mr. Weston's fault that the number of privy councillors was not yet larger . 
They had stopped at Mrs. Bates's door to offer the use of their carriage , but the aunt and niece were to be brought by the Eltons . 
Frank was standing by her , but not steadily there was a restlessness , which shewed a mind not at ease . 
He was looking about , he was going to the door , he was watching for the sound of other carriages , impatient to begin , or afraid of being always near her . 
Mrs. Elton was spoken of . 
I think she must be here soon , said he . 
I have a great curiosity to see Mrs. Elton , I have heard so much of her . 
It cannot be long , I think , before she comes . 
He was on the move immediately but coming back , said , I am forgetting that I am not acquainted with her . 
I have never seen either Mr. or Mrs. Elton . 
I have no business to put myself forward . 
Mr. and Mrs. Elton appeared and all the smiles and the proprieties passed . 
But Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax ! said Mr. Weston , looking about . 
We thought you were to bring them . 
The mistake had been slight . 
The carriage was sent for them now . 
Emma longed to know what Frank's first opinion of Mrs. Elton might be how he was affected by the studied elegance of her dress , and her smiles of graciousness . 
He was immediately qualifying himself to form an opinion , by giving her very proper attention , after the introduction had passed . 
In a few minutes the carriage returned . 
I will see that there are umbrellas , sir , said Frank to his father Miss Bates must not be forgotten and away he went . 
A very fine young man indeed , Mr. Weston . 
You know I candidly told you I should form my own opinion and I am happy to say that I am extremely pleased with him . 
I think him a very handsome young man , and his manners are precisely what I like and approve so truly the gentleman , without the least conceit or puppyism . 
You must know I have a vast dislike to puppies quite a horror of them . 
They were never tolerated at Maple Grove . 
Mrs. Elton turned to Mrs. Weston . 
I have no doubt of its being our carriage with Miss Bates and Jane . 
Our coachman and horses are so extremely expeditious ! I believe we drive faster than any body . 
What a pleasure it is to send one's carriage for a friend ! I understand you were so kind as to offer , but another time it will be quite unnecessary . 
You may be very sure I shall always take care of them . 
Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax , escorted by the two gentlemen , walked into the room and Mrs. Elton seemed to think it as much her duty as Mrs. Weston's to receive them . 
As the door opened she was heard , So very obliging of you ! No rain at all . 
I do not care for myself . 
Well ! This is brilliant indeed ! This is admirable ! Excellently contrived , upon my word . 
Could not have imagined it . 
So well lighted up ! Jane , Jane , look ! did you ever see any thing ? Oh ! Mr. Weston , you must really have had Aladdin's lamp . 
Good Mrs. Stokes would not know her own room again . 
I saw her as I came in she was standing in the entrance . 
Oh ! Mrs. Stokes , said I but I had not time for more . 
She was now met by Mrs. Weston . 
Very well , I thank you , ma'am . 
I hope you are quite well . 
Very happy to hear it . 
So afraid you might have a headach ! seeing you pass by so often , and knowing how much trouble you must have . 
Delighted to hear it indeed . 
Ah ! dear Mrs. Elton , so obliged to you for the carriage ! excellent time . 
Jane and I quite ready . 
Did not keep the horses a moment . 
Oh ! and I am sure our thanks are due to you , Mrs. Weston , on that score . 
Mrs. Elton had most kindly sent Jane a note , or we should have been . 
But two such offers in one day ! Never were such neighbours . 
I said to my mother , Upon my word , ma'am . 
Thank you , my mother is remarkably well . 
I made her take her shawl for the evenings are not warm her large new shawl Mrs. Dixon's wedding present . 
So kind of her to think of my mother ! Bought at Weymouth , you know Mr. Dixon's choice . 
There were three others , Jane says , which they hesitated about some time . 
Colonel Campbell rather preferred an olive . 
Oh ! Mr. Frank Churchill , I must tell you my mother's spectacles have never been in fault since the rivet never came out again . 
My mother often talks of your good nature . 
Does not she , Jane ? Do not we often talk of Mr. Frank Churchill ? Ah ! here's Miss Woodhouse . 
Dear Miss Woodhouse , how do you do ? Very well I thank you , quite well . 
that would be rude but upon my word , Miss Woodhouse , you do look how do you like Jane's hair ? You are a judge . 
She did it all herself . 
Quite wonderful how she does her hair ! No hairdresser from London I think could . 
Hughes I declare and Mrs. Hughes . 
Must go and speak to Dr . 
and Mrs. Hughes for a moment . 
How do you do ? How do you do ? Very well , I thank you . 
This is delightful , is not it ? Where's dear Mr. Richard ? Oh ! there he is . 
Much better employed talking to the young ladies . 
Such a host of friends ! and Mr. George and Mr. Arthur ! How do you do ? How do you all do ? Quite well , I am much obliged to you . 
Don't I hear another carriage ? Who can this be ? very likely the worthy Coles . 
Upon my word , this is charming to be standing about among such friends ! And such a noble fire ! I am quite roasted . 
No coffee , I thank you , for me never take coffee . 
A little tea if you please , sir , by and bye , no hurry Oh ! here it comes . 
Whether he were overhearing too , she could not determine . 
And I see very few pearls in the room except mine . 
So Frank Churchill is a capital dancer , I understand . 
We shall see if our styles suit . 
A fine young man certainly is Frank Churchill . 
I like him very well . 
Jane ! repeated Frank Churchill , with a look of surprize and displeasure . 
That is easy but Miss Fairfax does not disapprove it , I suppose . 
How do you like Mrs. Elton ? said Emma in a whisper . 
Ungrateful ! What do you mean ? Then changing from a frown to a smile No , do not tell me I do not want to know what you mean . 
Where is my father ? When are we to begin dancing ? Emma could hardly understand him he seemed in an odd humour . 
He walked off to find his father , but was quickly back again with both Mr. and Mrs. Weston . 
He had met with them in a little perplexity , which must be laid before Emma . 
It had just occurred to Mrs. Weston that Mrs. Elton must be asked to begin the ball that she would expect it which interfered with all their wishes of giving Emma that distinction . 
Emma heard the sad truth with fortitude . 
And what are we to do for a proper partner for her ? said Mr. Weston . 
She will think Frank ought to ask her . 
Mr. Weston and Mrs. Elton led the way , Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse followed . 
Emma must submit to stand second to Mrs. Elton , though she had always considered the ball as peculiarly for her . 
It was almost enough to make her think of marrying . 
Mrs. Elton had undoubtedly the advantage , at this time , in vanity completely gratified for though she had intended to begin with Frank Churchill , she could not lose by the change . 
Mr. Weston might be his son's superior . 
She was more disturbed by Mr. Knightley's not dancing than by any thing else . 
Whenever she caught his eye , she forced him to smile but in general he was looking grave . 
She wished he could love a ballroom better , and could like Frank Churchill better . 
He seemed often observing her . 
She must not flatter herself that he thought of her dancing , but if he were criticising her behaviour , she did not feel afraid . 
There was nothing like flirtation between her and her partner . 
They seemed more like cheerful , easy friends , than lovers . 
That Frank Churchill thought less of her than he had done , was indubitable . 
The anxious cares , the incessant attentions of Mrs. Weston , were not thrown away . 
Of very important , very recordable events , it was not more productive than such meetings usually are . 
There was one , however , which Emma thought something of . 
He would not ask Harriet to dance if it were possible to be avoided she was sure he would not and she was expecting him every moment to escape into the card room . 
Escape , however , was not his plan . 
He did not omit being sometimes directly before Miss Smith , or speaking to those who were close to her . 
Me ! oh ! no I would get you a better partner than myself . 
Mrs. Gilbert does not mean to dance , but there is a young lady disengaged whom I should be very glad to see dancing Miss Smith . 
Miss Smith ! oh ! I had not observed . 
You are extremely obliging and if I were not an old married man . 
But my dancing days are over , Mrs. Weston . 
Any thing else I should be most happy to do , at your command but my dancing days are over . 
Mrs. Weston said no more and Emma could imagine with what surprize and mortification she must be returning to her seat . 
This was Mr. Elton ! the amiable , obliging , gentle Mr. Elton . 
She would not look again . 
Her heart was in a glow , and she feared her face might be as hot . 
In another moment a happier sight caught her Mr. Knightley leading Harriet to the set ! Never had she been more surprized , seldom more delighted , than at that instant . 
It was not thrown away on her , she bounded higher than ever , flew farther down the middle , and was in a continual course of smiles . 
The move began and Miss Bates might be heard from that moment , without interruption , till her being seated at table and taking up her spoon . 
Jane , Jane , my dear Jane , where are you ? Here is your tippet . 
Mrs. Weston begs you to put on your tippet . 
She says she is afraid there will be draughts in the passage , though every thing has been done One door nailed up Quantities of matting My dear Jane , indeed you must . 
I set off without saying a word , just as I told you . 
Grandmama was quite well , had a charming evening with Mr. Woodhouse , a vast deal of chat , and backgammon . 
My dear sir , you are too obliging . 
Is there nobody you would not rather ? I am not helpless . 
Sir , you are most kind . 
Quite the queen of the evening ! Well , here we are at the passage . 
Two steps , Jane , take care of the two steps . 
Oh ! no , there is but one . 
Well , I was persuaded there were two . 
How very odd ! I was convinced there were two , and there is but one . 
I never saw any thing equal to the comfort and style Candles everywhere . 
I was telling you of your grandmama , Jane , There was a little disappointment . 
Where I sit is of no consequence . 
Oh ! do you recommend this side ? Well , I am sure , Mr. Churchill only it seems too good but just as you please . 
What you direct in this house cannot be wrong . 
He was warm in his reprobation of Mr. Elton's conduct it had been unpardonable rudeness and Mrs. Elton's looks also received the due share of censure . 
They aimed at wounding more than Harriet , said he . 
To that surmise , you say nothing , of course but confess , Emma , that you did want him to marry Harriet . 
I did , replied Emma , and they cannot forgive me . 
He shook his head but there was a smile of indulgence with it , and he only said , I shall not scold you . 
I leave you to your own reflections . 
Can you trust me with such flatterers ? Does my vain spirit ever tell me I am wrong ? Not your vain spirit , but your serious spirit . 
If one leads you wrong , I am sure the other tells you of it . 
I do own myself to have been completely mistaken in Mr. Elton . 
There is a littleness about him which you discovered , and which I did not and I was fully convinced of his being in love with Harriet . 
Harriet Smith has some first rate qualities , which Mrs. Elton is totally without . 
An unpretending , single minded , artless girl infinitely to be preferred by any man of sense and taste to such a woman as Mrs. Elton . 
I found Harriet more conversable than I expected . 
They were interrupted by the bustle of Mr. Weston calling on every body to begin dancing again . 
Come Miss Woodhouse , Miss Otway , Miss Fairfax , what are you all doing ? Come Emma , set your companions the example . 
Every body is lazy ! Every body is asleep ! I am ready , said Emma , whenever I am wanted . 
Whom are you going to dance with ? asked Mr. Knightley . 
She hesitated a moment , and then replied , With you , if you will ask me . 
Will you ? said he , offering his hand . 
You have shewn that you can dance , and you know we are not really so much brother and sister as to make it at all improper . 
Brother and sister ! no , indeed . 
CHAPTER III This little explanation with Mr. Knightley gave Emma considerable pleasure . 
It was one of the agreeable recollections of the ball , which she walked about the lawn the next morning to enjoy . 
From Harriet's manner of speaking of the circumstance before they quitted the ballroom , she had strong hopes . 
It seemed as if her eyes were suddenly opened , and she were enabled to see that Mr. Elton was not the superior creature she had believed him . 
The fever was over , and Emma could harbour little fear of the pulse being quickened again by injurious courtesy . 
She depended on the evil feelings of the Eltons for supplying all the discipline of pointed neglect that could be farther requisite . 
He had told her that he could not allow himself the pleasure of stopping at Hartfield , as he was to be at home by the middle of the day . 
She did not regret it . 
Harriet looked white and frightened , and he was trying to cheer her . 
The iron gates and the front door were not twenty yards asunder they were all three soon in the hall , and Harriet immediately sinking into a chair fainted away . 
A young lady who faints , must be recovered questions must be answered , and surprizes be explained . 
Such events are very interesting , but the suspense of them cannot last long . 
A few minutes made Emma acquainted with the whole . 
But poor Harriet could not follow . 
In this state Frank Churchill had found her , she trembling and conditioning , they loud and insolent . 
By a most fortunate chance his leaving Highbury had been delayed so as to bring him to her assistance at this critical moment . 
The terror which the woman and boy had been creating in Harriet was then their own portion . 
He had left them completely frightened and Harriet eagerly clinging to him , and hardly able to speak , had just strength enough to reach Hartfield , before her spirits were quite overcome . 
It was his idea to bring her to Hartfield he had thought of no other place . 
This was the amount of the whole story , of his communication and of Harriet's as soon as she had recovered her senses and speech . 
So Emma thought , at least . 
He was wishing to get the better of his attachment to herself , she just recovering from her mania for Mr. Elton . 
It seemed as if every thing united to promise the most interesting consequences . 
It was not possible that the occurrence should not be strongly recommending each to the other . 
Every thing was to take its natural course , however , neither impelled nor assisted . 
She would not stir a step , nor drop a hint . 
No , she had had enough of interference . 
There could be no harm in a scheme , a mere passive scheme . 
It was no more than a wish . 
Beyond it she would on no account proceed . 
Within half an hour it was known all over Highbury . 
The last night's ball seemed lost in the gipsies . 
Poor Mr. Woodhouse trembled as he sat , and , as Emma had foreseen , would scarcely be satisfied without their promising never to go beyond the shrubbery again . 
The gipsies did not wait for the operations of justice they took themselves off in a hurry . 
Emma was a good deal surprized but begged her to speak . 
There was a seriousness in Harriet's manner which prepared her , quite as much as her words , for something more than ordinary . 
It is my duty , and I am sure it is my wish , she continued , to have no reserves with you on this subject . 
As I am happily quite an altered creature in one respect , it is very fit that you should have the satisfaction of knowing it . 
I do not want to say more than is necessary I am too much ashamed of having given way as I have done , and I dare say you understand me . 
Yes , said Emma , I hope I do . 
How I could so long a time be fancying myself ! . 
It seems like madness ! I can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now . 
However , now I will destroy it all and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence , that you may see how rational I am grown . 
Cannot you guess what this parcel holds ? said she , with a conscious look . 
Not the least in the world . 
Did he ever give you any thing ? No I cannot call them gifts but they are things that I have valued very much . 
She held the parcel towards her , and Emma read the words Most precious treasures on the top . 
Her curiosity was greatly excited . 
Harriet unfolded the parcel , and she looked on with impatience . 
Now , said Harriet , you must recollect . 
No , indeed I do not . 
My dearest Harriet ! cried Emma , putting her hand before her face , and jumping up , you make me more ashamed of myself than I can bear . 
go on what else ? And had you really some at hand yourself ? I am sure I never suspected it , you did it so naturally . 
And so you actually put this piece of court plaister by for his sake ! said Emma , recovering from her state of shame and feeling divided between wonder and amusement . 
Emma was quite eager to see this superior treasure . 
It was the end of an old pencil , the part without any lead . 
This was really his , said Harriet . 
Do not you remember one morning ? no , I dare say you do not . 
But I kept my eye on it and , as soon as I dared , caught it up , and never parted with it again from that moment . 
I do remember it , cried Emma I perfectly remember it . 
Oh ! yes Mr. Knightley and I both saying we liked it , and Mr. Elton's seeming resolved to learn to like it too . 
Stop Mr. Knightley was standing just here , was not he ? I have an idea he was standing just here . 
Ah ! I do not know . 
It is very odd , but I cannot recollect . 
Mr. Elton was sitting here , I remember , much about where I am now . 
It was very wrong of me , you know , to keep any remembrances , after he was married . 
I knew it was but had not resolution enough to part with them . 
I shall be happier to burn it , replied Harriet . 
It has a disagreeable look to me . 
I must get rid of every thing . 
There it goes , and there is an end , thank Heaven ! of Mr. Elton . 
About a fortnight after the alarm , they came to a sufficient explanation , and quite undesignedly . 
Emma was not thinking of it at the moment , which made the information she received more valuable . 
It is one that I shall never change , however . 
After another short hesitation , I hope it does not proceed from I hope it is not in compliment to Mr. Elton ? Mr. Elton indeed ! cried Harriet indignantly . 
Oh ! no and Emma could just catch the words , so superior to Mr. Elton ! She then took a longer time for consideration . 
She believed it would be wiser for her to say and know at once , all that she meant to say and know . 
Plain dealing was always best . 
She was decided , and thus spoke Harriet , I will not affect to be in doubt of your meaning . 
Is not it so ? Oh ! Miss Woodhouse , believe me I have not the presumption to suppose Indeed I am not so mad . 
I am not at all surprized at you , Harriet . 
The service he rendered you was enough to warm your heart . 
Such a change ! In one moment such a change ! From perfect misery to perfect happiness ! It is very natural . 
It is natural , and it is honourable . 
Yes , honourable , I think , to chuse so well and so gratefully . 
But that it will be a fortunate preference is more that I can promise . 
I do not advise you to give way to it , Harriet . 
I do not by any means engage for its being returned . 
Consider what you are about . 
Perhaps it will be wisest in you to check your feelings while you can at any rate do not let them carry you far , unless you are persuaded of his liking you . 
Let his behaviour be the guide of your sensations . 
I give you this caution now , because I shall never speak to you again on the subject . 
I am determined against all interference . 
Henceforward I know nothing of the matter . 
Let no name ever pass our lips . 
We were very wrong before we will be cautious now . 
But take care of yourself . 
Harriet kissed her hand in silent and submissive gratitude . 
Emma was very decided in thinking such an attachment no bad thing for her friend . 
Its tendency would be to raise and refine her mind and it must be saving her from the danger of degradation . 
CHAPTER V In this state of schemes , and hopes , and connivance , June opened upon Hartfield . 
To Highbury in general it brought no material change . 
Mr. Knightley , who , for some reason best known to himself , had certainly taken an early dislike to Frank Churchill , was only growing to dislike him more . 
He began to suspect him of some double dealing in his pursuit of Emma . 
That Emma was his object appeared indisputable . 
But while so many were devoting him to Emma , and Emma herself making him over to Harriet , Mr. Knightley began to suspect him of some inclination to trifle with Jane Fairfax . 
She was not present when the suspicion first arose . 
He had walked up one day after dinner , as he very often did , to spend his evening at Hartfield . 
As they were turning into the grounds , Mr. Perry passed by on horseback . 
The gentlemen spoke of his horse . 
Nay , I had it from you . 
You wrote me word of it three months ago . 
Me ! impossible ! Indeed you did . 
You mentioned it as what was certainly to be very soon . 
Mrs. Perry had told somebody , and was extremely happy about it . 
It was owing to her persuasion , as she thought his being out in bad weather did him a great deal of harm . 
You must remember it now ? Upon my word I never heard of it till this moment . 
You will not be sorry to find yourself at home . 
You had it from himself , had you ? No , sir , replied his son , laughing , I seem to have had it from nobody . 
I am a great dreamer . 
I dream of every body at Highbury when I am away and when I have gone through my particular friends , then I begin dreaming of Mr. and Mrs. Perry . 
Emma , you are a great dreamer , I think ? Emma was out of hearing . 
She had hurried on before her guests to prepare her father for their appearance , and was beyond the reach of Mr. Weston's hint . 
Mrs. Perry was very anxious that he should have a carriage , and came to my mother in great spirits one morning because she thought she had prevailed . 
At the same time , I will not positively answer for my having never dropt a hint , because I know I do sometimes pop out a thing before I am aware . 
I am a talker , you know I am rather a talker and now and then I have let a thing escape me which I should not . 
I am not like Jane I wish I were . 
I will answer for it she never betrayed the least thing in the world . 
Where is she ? Oh ! just behind . 
Perfectly remember Mrs. Perry's coming . 
Extraordinary dream , indeed ! They were entering the hall . 
Mr. Knightley's eyes had preceded Miss Bates's in a glance at Jane . 
Mr. Weston had walked in . 
The two other gentlemen waited at the door to let her pass . 
There was no time for farther remark or explanation . 
Tea passed pleasantly , and nobody seemed in a hurry to move . 
Where is it ? This is a sort of dull looking evening , that ought to be treated rather as winter than summer . 
We had great amusement with those letters one morning . 
I want to puzzle you again . 
Emma was pleased with the thought and producing the box , the table was quickly scattered over with alphabets , which no one seemed so much disposed to employ as their two selves . 
They were rapidly forming words for each other , or for any body else who would be puzzled . 
Frank Churchill placed a word before Miss Fairfax . 
She gave a slight glance round the table , and applied herself to it . 
The word was discovered , and with a faint smile pushed away . 
She was sitting by Mr. Knightley , and turned to him for help . 
The word was blunder and as Harriet exultingly proclaimed it , there was a blush on Jane's cheek which gave it a meaning not otherwise ostensible . 
Mr. Knightley connected it with the dream but how it could all be , was beyond his comprehension . 
How the delicacy , the discretion of his favourite could have been so lain asleep ! He feared there must be some decided involvement . 
Disingenuousness and double dealing seemed to meet him at every turn . 
These letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick . 
It was a child's play , chosen to conceal a deeper game on Frank Churchill's part . 
With great indignation did he continue to observe him with great alarm and distrust , to observe also his two blinded companions . 
He saw a short word prepared for Emma , and given to her with a look sly and demure . 
No , no , you must not you shall not , indeed . 
Jane Fairfax's perception seemed to accompany his her comprehension was certainly more equal to the covert meaning , the superior intelligence , of those five letters so arranged . 
Her face was averted from those who had made the attack , and turned towards her aunt . 
Aye , very true , my dear , cried the latter , though Jane had not spoken a word I was just going to say the same thing . 
It is time for us to be going indeed . 
The evening is closing in , and grandmama will be looking for us . 
My dear sir , you are too obliging . 
We really must wish you good night . 
Jane's alertness in moving , proved her as ready as her aunt had preconceived . 
She was afterwards looking for her shawl Frank Churchill was looking also it was growing dusk , and the room was in confusion and how they parted , Mr. Knightley could not tell . 
He could not see her in a situation of such danger , without trying to preserve her . 
She could not endure to give him the true explanation for though her suspicions were by no means removed , she was really ashamed of having ever imparted them . 
Oh ! she cried in evident embarrassment , it all meant nothing a mere joke among ourselves . 
The joke , he replied gravely , seemed confined to you and Mr. Churchill . 
He had hoped she would speak again , but she did not . 
She would rather busy herself about any thing than speak . 
He sat a little while in doubt . 
A variety of evils crossed his mind . 
Emma's confusion , and the acknowledged intimacy , seemed to declare her affection engaged . 
Oh ! you amuse me excessively . 
That is , I presume it to be so on her side , and I can answer for its being so on his . 
I will answer for the gentleman's indifference . 
She spoke with a confidence which staggered , with a satisfaction which silenced , Mr. Knightley . 
He found he could not be useful , and his feelings were too much irritated for talking . 
No such importation of novelties could enrich their intellectual stores at present . 
Mrs. Elton was very much disappointed . 
It was the delay of a great deal of pleasure and parade . 
Her introductions and recommendations must all wait , and every projected party be still only talked of . 
So she thought at first but a little consideration convinced her that every thing need not be put off . 
Why should not they explore to Box Hill though the Sucklings did not come ? They could go there again with them in the autumn . 
It was settled that they should go to Box Hill . 
That there was to be such a party had been long generally known it had even given the idea of another . 
I am glad you approve of what I have done , said he very comfortably . 
But I thought you would . 
Such schemes as these are nothing without numbers . 
One cannot have too large a party . 
A large party secures its own amusement . 
And she is a good natured woman after all . 
One could not leave her out . 
Emma denied none of it aloud , and agreed to none of it in private . 
It might be weeks , it might be only a few days , before the horse were useable but no preparations could be ventured on , and it was all melancholy stagnation . 
Mrs. Elton's resources were inadequate to such an attack . 
Is not this most vexations , Knightley ? she cried . 
And such weather for exploring ! These delays and disappointments are quite odious . 
What are we to do ? The year will wear away at this rate , and nothing done . 
Before this time last year I assure you we had had a delightful exploring party from Maple Grove to Kings Weston . 
You had better explore to Donwell , replied Mr. Knightley . 
That may be done without horses . 
Come , and eat my strawberries . 
You may depend upon me , said she . 
Name your day , and I will come . 
You will allow me to bring Jane Fairfax ? I cannot name a day , said he , till I have spoken to some others whom I would wish to meet you . 
Oh ! leave all that to me . 
Only give me a carte blanche . 
I am Lady Patroness , you know . 
I will bring friends with me . 
I hope you will bring Elton , said he but I will not trouble you to give any other invitations . 
Oh ! now you are looking very sly . 
But consider you need not be afraid of delegating power to me . 
I am no young lady on her preferment . 
Married women , you know , may be safely authorised . 
Leave it all to me . 
I will invite your guests . 
No Mrs. Knightley and till she is in being , I will manage such matters myself . 
Ah ! you are an odd creature ! she cried , satisfied to have no one preferred to herself . 
You are a humourist , and may say what you like . 
Well , I shall bring Jane with me Jane and her aunt . 
The rest I leave to you . 
I have no objections at all to meeting the Hartfield family . 
I know you are attached to them . 
You certainly will meet them if I can prevail and I shall call on Miss Bates in my way home . 
That's quite unnecessary I see Jane every day but as you like . 
It is to be a morning scheme , you know , Knightley quite a simple thing . 
I shall wear a large bonnet , and bring one of my little baskets hanging on my arm . 
Here , probably this basket with pink ribbon . 
Nothing can be more simple , you see . 
And Jane will have such another . 
There is to be no form or parade a sort of gipsy party . 
Every thing as natural and simple as possible . 
Is not that your idea ? Not quite . 
My idea of the simple and the natural will be to have the table spread in the dining room . 
The nature and the simplicity of gentlemen and ladies , with their servants and furniture , I think is best observed by meals within doors . 
When you are tired of eating strawberries in the garden , there shall be cold meat in the house . 
Well as you please only don't have a great set out . 
And , by the bye , can I or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion ? Pray be sincere , Knightley . 
If you wish me to talk to Mrs. Hodges , or to inspect anything I have not the least wish for it , I thank you . 
Well but if any difficulties should arise , my housekeeper is extremely clever . 
I will answer for it , that mine thinks herself full as clever , and would spurn any body's assistance . 
I wish we had a donkey . 
The thing would be for us all to come on donkeys , Jane , Miss Bates , and me and my caro sposo walking by . 
I really must talk to him about purchasing a donkey . 
You will not find either , between Donwell and Highbury . 
Donwell Lane is never dusty , and now it is perfectly dry . 
Come on a donkey , however , if you prefer it . 
You can borrow Mrs. Cole's . 
I would wish every thing to be as much to your taste as possible . 
That I am sure you would . 
Indeed I do you justice , my good friend . 
Under that peculiar sort of dry , blunt manner , I know you have the warmest heart . 
As I tell Mr. E. , you are a thorough humourist . 
Yes , believe me , Knightley , I am fully sensible of your attention to me in the whole of this scheme . 
You have hit upon the very thing to please me . 
Mr. Knightley had another reason for avoiding a table in the shade . 
Mr. Woodhouse must not , under the specious pretence of a morning drive , and an hour or two spent at Donwell , be tempted away to his misery . 
He was invited on good faith . 
No lurking horrors were to upbraid him for his easy credulity . 
He had not been at Donwell for two years . 
He did not suppose they could be damp now , in the middle of the day . 
He should like to see the old house again exceedingly , and should be very happy to meet Mr. and Mrs. Elton , and any other of his neighbours . 
He could not see any objection at all to his , and Emma's , and Harriet's going there some very fine morning . 
He thought it very well done of Mr. Knightley to invite them very kind and sensible much cleverer than dining out . 
He was not fond of dining out . 
Mr. Knightley was fortunate in every body's most ready concurrence . 
The invitation was everywhere so well received , that it seemed as if , like Mrs. Elton , they were all taking the scheme as a particular compliment to themselves . 
The house was larger than Hartfield , and totally unlike it , covering a good deal of ground , rambling and irregular , with many comfortable , and one or two handsome rooms . 
Some faults of temper John Knightley had but Isabella had connected herself unexceptionably . 
She had given them neither men , nor names , nor places , that could raise a blush . 
These were pleasant feelings , and she walked about and indulged them till it was necessary to do as the others did , and collect round the strawberry beds . 
The best fruit in England every body's favourite always wholesome . 
These the finest beds and finest sorts . 
Delightful to gather for one's self the only way of really enjoying them . 
She had some fears of his horse . 
Seats tolerably in the shade were found and now Emma was obliged to overhear what Mrs. Elton and Jane Fairfax were talking of . 
A situation , a most desirable situation , was in question . 
Mrs. Elton had received notice of it that morning , and was in raptures . 
Delightful , charming , superior , first circles , spheres , lines , ranks , every thing and Mrs. Elton was wild to have the offer closed with immediately . 
Still Mrs. Elton insisted on being authorised to write an acquiescence by the morrow's post . 
How Jane could bear it at all , was astonishing to Emma . 
She did look vexed , she did speak pointedly and at last , with a decision of action unusual to her , proposed a removal . 
Should not they walk ? Would not Mr. Knightley shew them the gardens all the gardens ? She wished to see the whole extent . 
The pertinacity of her friend seemed more than she could bear . 
Disputable , however , as might be the taste of such a termination , it was in itself a charming walk , and the view which closed it extremely pretty . 
It was a sweet view sweet to the eye and the mind . 
English verdure , English culture , English comfort , seen under a sun bright , without being oppressive . 
In this walk Emma and Mr. Weston found all the others assembled and towards this view she immediately perceived Mr. Knightley and Harriet distinct from the rest , quietly leading the way . 
Mr. Knightley and Harriet ! It was an odd tete a tete but she was glad to see it . 
There had been a time when he would have scorned her as a companion , and turned from her with little ceremony . 
Now they seemed in pleasant conversation . 
There had been a time also when Emma would have been sorry to see Harriet in a spot so favourable for the Abbey Mill Farm but now she feared it not . 
It might be safely viewed with all its appendages of prosperity and beauty , its rich pastures , spreading flocks , orchard in blossom , and light column of smoke ascending . 
She joined them at the wall , and found them more engaged in talking than in looking around . 
He was giving Harriet information as to modes of agriculture , etc . 
and Emma received a smile which seemed to say , These are my own concerns . 
I have a right to talk on such subjects , without being suspected of introducing Robert Martin . 
She did not suspect him . 
It was too old a story . 
Robert Martin had probably ceased to think of Harriet . 
They took a few turns together along the walk . 
The shade was most refreshing , and Emma found it the pleasantest part of the day . 
The next remove was to the house they must all go in and eat and they were all seated and busy , and still Frank Churchill did not come . 
Mrs. Weston looked , and looked in vain . 
His father would not own himself uneasy , and laughed at her fears but she could not be cured of wishing that he would part with his black mare . 
He had expressed himself as to coming , with more than common certainty . 
His aunt was so much better , that he had not a doubt of getting over to them . 
Emma looked at Harriet while the point was under consideration she behaved very well , and betrayed no emotion . 
Mr. Knightley had done all in his power for Mr. Woodhouse's entertainment . 
Mr. Woodhouse had been exceedingly well amused . 
Little expecting to meet Miss Woodhouse so soon , there was a start at first but Miss Woodhouse was the very person she was in quest of . 
Will you be so kind , said she , when I am missed , as to say that I am gone home ? I am going this moment . 
My aunt is not aware how late it is , nor how long we have been absent but I am sure we shall be wanted , and I am determined to go directly . 
I have said nothing about it to any body . 
It would only be giving trouble and distress . 
Some are gone to the ponds , and some to the lime walk . 
I shall be at home in twenty minutes . 
But it is too far , indeed it is , to be walking quite alone . 
Let my father's servant go with you . 
Let me order the carriage . 
It can be round in five minutes . 
Thank you , thank you but on no account . 
I must order the carriage . 
The heat even would be danger . 
I am , she answered I am fatigued but it is not the sort of fatigue quick walking will refresh me . 
Miss Woodhouse , we all know at times what it is to be wearied in spirits . 
Mine , I confess , are exhausted . 
The greatest kindness you can shew me , will be to let me have my own way , and only say that I am gone when it is necessary . 
Emma had not another word to oppose . 
She saw it all and entering into her feelings , promoted her quitting the house immediately , and watched her safely off with the zeal of a friend . 
Such a home , indeed ! such an aunt ! said Emma , as she turned back into the hall again . 
And the more sensibility you betray of their just horrors , the more I shall like you . 
Jane had not been gone a quarter of an hour , and they had only accomplished some views of St . 
Mark's Place , Venice , when Frank Churchill entered the room . 
Emma had not been thinking of him , she had forgotten to think of him but she was very glad to see him . 
Mrs. Weston would be at ease . 
The black mare was blameless they were right who had named Mrs. Churchill as the cause . 
The heat was excessive he had never suffered any thing like it almost wished he had staid at home nothing killed him like heat he could bear any degree of cold , etc . 
, but heat was intolerable and he sat down , at the greatest possible distance from the slight remains of Mr. Woodhouse's fire , looking very deplorable . 
You will soon be cooler , if you sit still , said Emma . 
As soon as I am cooler I shall go back again . 
I could very ill be spared but such a point had been made of my coming ! You will all be going soon I suppose the whole party breaking up . 
Some people were always cross when they were hot . 
No he should not eat . 
He was not hungry it would only make him hotter . 
In two minutes , however , he relented in his own favour and muttering something about spruce beer , walked off . 
Emma returned all her attention to her father , saying in secret I am glad I have done being in love with him . 
I should not like a man who is so soon discomposed by a hot morning . 
Harriet's sweet easy temper will not mind it . 
He was not in his best spirits , but seemed trying to improve them and , at last , made himself talk nonsense very agreeably . 
They were looking over views in Swisserland . 
As soon as my aunt gets well , I shall go abroad , said he . 
I shall never be easy till I have seen some of these places . 
You will have my sketches , some time or other , to look at or my tour to read or my poem . 
I shall do something to expose myself . 
That may be but not by sketches in Swisserland . 
You will never go to Swisserland . 
Your uncle and aunt will never allow you to leave England . 
They may be induced to go too . 
A warm climate may be prescribed for her . 
I have more than half an expectation of our all going abroad . 
I assure you I have . 
I feel a strong persuasion , this morning , that I shall soon be abroad . 
I am tired of doing nothing . 
I am serious , Miss Woodhouse , whatever your penetrating eyes may fancy I am sick of England and would leave it to morrow , if I could . 
You are sick of prosperity and indulgence . 
Cannot you invent a few hardships for yourself , and be contented to stay ? I sick of prosperity and indulgence ! You are quite mistaken . 
I do not look upon myself as either prosperous or indulged . 
I am thwarted in every thing material . 
I do not consider myself at all a fortunate person . 
You are not quite so miserable , though , as when you first came . 
Go and eat and drink a little more , and you will do very well . 
Another slice of cold meat , another draught of Madeira and water , will make you nearly on a par with the rest of us . 
No I shall not stir . 
I shall sit by you . 
You are my best cure . 
We are going to Box Hill to morrow you will join us . 
It is not Swisserland , but it will be something for a young man so much in want of a change . 
You will stay , and go with us ? No , certainly not I shall go home in the cool of the evening . 
But you may come again in the cool of to morrow morning . 
No It will not be worth while . 
If I come , I shall be cross . 
Then pray stay at Richmond . 
But if I do , I shall be crosser still . 
I can never bear to think of you all there without me . 
These are difficulties which you must settle for yourself . 
Chuse your own degree of crossness . 
I shall press you no more . 
The rest of the party were now returning , and all were soon collected . 
With some there was great joy at the sight of Frank Churchill others took it very composedly but there was a very general distress and disturbance on Miss Fairfax's disappearance being explained . 
That it was time for every body to go , concluded the subject and with a short final arrangement for the next day's scheme , they parted . 
Frank Churchill's little inclination to exclude himself increased so much , that his last words to Emma were , Well if you wish me to stay and join the party , I will . 
She smiled her acceptance and nothing less than a summons from Richmond was to take him back before the following evening . 
CHAPTER VII They had a very fine day for Box Hill and all the other outward circumstances of arrangement , accommodation , and punctuality , were in favour of a pleasant party . 
Mr. Weston directed the whole , officiating safely between Hartfield and the Vicarage , and every body was in good time . 
Emma and Harriet went together Miss Bates and her niece , with the Eltons the gentlemen on horseback . 
Mrs. Weston remained with Mr. Woodhouse . 
Nothing was wanting but to be happy when they got there . 
Seven miles were travelled in expectation of enjoyment , and every body had a burst of admiration on first arriving but in the general amount of the day there was deficiency . 
There was a languor , a want of spirits , a want of union , which could not be got over . 
They separated too much into parties . 
The Eltons walked together Mr. Knightley took charge of Miss Bates and Jane and Emma and Harriet belonged to Frank Churchill . 
And Mr. Weston tried , in vain , to make them harmonise better . 
It seemed at first an accidental division , but it never materially varied . 
At first it was downright dulness to Emma . 
She had never seen Frank Churchill so silent and stupid . 
He said nothing worth hearing looked without seeing admired without intelligence listened without knowing what she said . 
While he was so dull , it was no wonder that Harriet should be dull likewise and they were both insufferable . 
When they all sat down it was better to her taste a great deal better , for Frank Churchill grew talkative and gay , making her his first object . 
Every distinguishing attention that could be paid , was paid to her . 
Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse flirted together excessively . 
They were laying themselves open to that very phrase and to having it sent off in a letter to Maple Grove by one lady , to Ireland by another . 
Not that Emma was gay and thoughtless from any real felicity it was rather because she felt less happy than she had expected . 
She still intended him for her friend . 
I had quite determined to go away again . 
Yes , you were very cross and I do not know what about , except that you were too late for the best strawberries . 
I was a kinder friend than you deserved . 
You begged hard to be commanded to come . 
Don't say I was cross . 
It is hotter to day . 
I am perfectly comfortable to day . 
You are comfortable because you are under command . 
Perhaps I intended you to say so , but I meant self command . 
It comes to the same thing . 
I can have no self command without a motive . 
You order me , whether you speak or not . 
And you can be always with me . 
You are always with me . 
Dating from three o'clock yesterday . 
My perpetual influence could not begin earlier , or you would not have been so much out of humour before . 
Three o'clock yesterday ! That is your date . 
I thought I had seen you first in February . 
Your gallantry is really unanswerable . 
nobody speaks except ourselves , and it is rather too much to be talking nonsense for the entertainment of seven silent people . 
I say nothing of which I am ashamed , replied he , with lively impudence . 
I saw you first in February . 
Let every body on the Hill hear me if they can . 
Let my accents swell to Mickleham on one side , and Dorking on the other . 
I saw you first in February . 
And then whispering Our companions are excessively stupid . 
What shall we do to rouse them ? Any nonsense will serve . 
to say , that she desires to know what you are all thinking of ? Some laughed , and answered good humouredly . 
Miss Bates said a great deal Mrs. Elton swelled at the idea of Miss Woodhouse's presiding Mr. Knightley's answer was the most distinct . 
It is the very last thing I would stand the brunt of just now . 
Let me hear any thing rather than what you are all thinking of . 
I will not say quite all . 
whose thoughts I might not be afraid of knowing . 
It is a sort of thing , cried Mrs. Elton emphatically , which I should not have thought myself privileged to inquire into . 
Exactly so , indeed quite unheard of but some ladies say any thing . 
Better pass it off as a joke . 
Every body knows what is due to you . 
It will not do , whispered Frank to Emma they are most of them affronted . 
I will attack them with more address . 
Oh ! very well , exclaimed Miss Bates , then I need not be uneasy . 
Three things very dull indeed . 
That will just do for me , you know . 
Do not you all think I shall ? Emma could not resist . 
Ah ! ma'am , but there may be a difficulty . 
Pardon me but you will be limited as to number only three at once . 
Ah ! well to be sure . 
and I will try to hold my tongue . 
I must make myself very disagreeable , or she would not have said such a thing to an old friend . 
I like your plan , cried Mr. Weston . 
I will do my best . 
I am making a conundrum . 
How will a conundrum reckon ? Low , I am afraid , sir , very low , answered his son but we shall be indulgent especially to any one who leads the way . 
No , no , said Emma , it will not reckon low . 
A conundrum of Mr. Weston's shall clear him and his next neighbour . 
Come , sir , pray let me hear it . 
I doubt its being very clever myself , said Mr. Weston . 
It is too much a matter of fact , but here it is . 
What two letters of the alphabet are there , that express perfection ? What two letters ! express perfection ! I am sure I do not know . 
Ah ! you will never guess . 
, I am certain , will never guess . 
M. and A. Em ma . 
Do you understand ? Understanding and gratification came together . 
It might be a very indifferent piece of wit , but Emma found a great deal to laugh at and enjoy in it and so did Frank and Harriet . 
Perfection should not have come quite so soon . 
Oh ! for myself , I protest I must be excused , said Mrs. Elton I really cannot attempt I am not at all fond of the sort of thing . 
I had an acrostic once sent to me upon my own name , which I was not at all pleased with . 
I knew who it came from . 
An abominable puppy ! You know who I mean . 
Miss Woodhouse must excuse me . 
I am not one of those who have witty things at every body's service . 
I do not pretend to be a wit . 
I have a great deal of vivacity in my own way , but I really must be allowed to judge when to speak and when to hold my tongue . 
Pass us , if you please , Mr. Churchill . 
Pass Mr. E. , Knightley , Jane , and myself . 
We have nothing clever to say not one of us . 
An old married man quite good for nothing . 
Shall we walk , Augusta ? With all my heart . 
I am really tired of exploring so long on one spot . 
Come , Jane , take my other arm . 
Jane declined it , however , and the husband and wife walked off . 
It is only by seeing women in their own homes , among their own set , just as they always are , that you can form any just judgment . 
Short of that , it is all guess and luck and will generally be ill luck . 
Such things do occur , undoubtedly . 
She was stopped by a cough . 
Frank Churchill turned towards her to listen . 
You were speaking , said he , gravely . 
I was only going to observe , that though such unfortunate circumstances do sometimes occur both to men and women , I cannot imagine them to be very frequent . 
A hasty and imprudent attachment may arise but there is generally time to recover from it afterwards . 
who will suffer an unfortunate acquaintance to be an inconvenience , an oppression for ever . 
Will you chuse a wife for me ? I am sure I should like any body fixed on by you . 
You provide for the family , you know , . 
Find some body for me . 
I am in no hurry . 
Adopt her , educate her . 
And make her like myself . 
By all means , if you can . 
You shall have a charming wife . 
She must be very lively , and have hazle eyes . 
I care for nothing else . 
I shall go abroad for a couple of years and when I return , I shall come to you for my wife . 
Emma was in no danger of forgetting . 
It was a commission to touch every favourite feeling . 
Would not Harriet be the very creature described ? Hazle eyes excepted , two years more might make her all that he wished . 
He might even have Harriet in his thoughts at the moment who could say ? Referring the education to her seemed to imply it . 
Now , ma'am , said Jane to her aunt , shall we join Mrs. Elton ? If you please , my dear . 
I was ready to have gone with her , but this will do just as well . 
We shall soon overtake her . 
There she is no , that's somebody else . 
That's one of the ladies in the Irish car party , not at all like her . 
Well , I declare They walked off , followed in half a minute by Mr. Knightley . 
Mr. Weston , his son , Emma , and Harriet , only remained and the young man's spirits now rose to a pitch almost unpleasant . 
Such another scheme , composed of so many ill assorted people , she hoped never to be betrayed into again . 
While waiting for the carriage , she found Mr. Knightley by her side . 
I cannot see you acting wrong , without a remonstrance . 
Emma recollected , blushed , was sorry , but tried to laugh it off . 
Nay , how could I help saying what I did ? Nobody could have helped it . 
It was not so very bad . 
I dare say she did not understand me . 
I assure you she did . 
She felt your full meaning . 
She has talked of it since . 
I wish you could have heard how she talked of it with what candour and generosity . 
They are blended , said he , I acknowledge and , were she prosperous , I could allow much for the occasional prevalence of the ridiculous over the good . 
Were she a woman of fortune , I would leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance , I would not quarrel with you for any liberties of manner . 
Were she your equal in situation but , Emma , consider how far this is from being the case . 
She is poor she has sunk from the comforts she was born to and , if she live to old age , must probably sink more . 
Her situation should secure your compassion . 
would be entirely guided by your treatment of her . 
While they talked , they were advancing towards the carriage it was ready and , before she could speak again , he had handed her in . 
He had misinterpreted the feelings which had kept her face averted , and her tongue motionless . 
They were combined only of anger against herself , mortification , and deep concern . 
He had turned away , and the horses were in motion . 
She continued to look back , but in vain and soon , with what appeared unusual speed , they were half way down the hill , and every thing left far behind . 
She was vexed beyond what could have been expressed almost beyond what she could conceal . 
Never had she felt so agitated , mortified , grieved , at any circumstance in her life . 
She was most forcibly struck . 
The truth of this representation there was no denying . 
She felt it at her heart . 
As she reflected more , she seemed but to feel it more . 
She never had been so depressed . 
Happily it was not necessary to speak . 
CHAPTER VIII The wretchedness of a scheme to Box Hill was in Emma's thoughts all the evening . 
How it might be considered by the rest of the party , she could not tell . 
A whole evening of back gammon with her father , was felicity to it . 
As a daughter , she hoped she was not without a heart . 
She hoped no one could have said to her , How could you be so unfeeling to your father ? I must , I will tell you truths while I can . 
Miss Bates should never again no , never ! If attention , in future , could do away the past , she might hope to be forgiven . 
She had been often remiss , her conscience told her so remiss , perhaps , more in thought than fact scornful , ungracious . 
But it should be so no more . 
She was just as determined when the morrow came , and went early , that nothing might prevent her . 
It was not unlikely , she thought , that she might see Mr. Knightley in her way or , perhaps , he might come in while she were paying her visit . 
She would not be ashamed of the appearance of the penitence , so justly and truly hers . 
Her eyes were towards Donwell as she walked , but she saw him not . 
The ladies were all at home . 
There was a bustle on her approach a good deal of moving and talking . 
The aunt and niece seemed both escaping into the adjoining room . 
Poor old Mrs. Bates , civil and humble as usual , looked as if she did not quite understand what was going on . 
I am afraid Jane is not very well , said she , but I do not know they tell me she is well . 
I dare say my daughter will be here presently , Miss Woodhouse . 
I hope you find a chair . 
I wish Hetty had not gone . 
I am very little able Have you a chair , ma'am ? Do you sit where you like ? I am sure she will be here presently . 
Emma seriously hoped she would . 
She had a moment's fear of Miss Bates keeping away from her . 
But Miss Bates soon came Very happy and obliged but Emma's conscience told her that there was not the same cheerful volubility as before less ease of look and manner . 
A very friendly inquiry after Miss Fairfax , she hoped , might lead the way to a return of old feelings . 
Ah ! Miss Woodhouse , how kind you are ! I suppose you have heard and are come to give us joy . 
My dear , said I , you will blind yourself' for tears were in her eyes perpetually . 
One cannot wonder , one cannot wonder . 
but , poor dear soul ! if you were to see what a headache she has . 
When one is in great pain , you know one cannot feel any blessing quite as it may deserve . 
She is as low as possible . 
To look at her , nobody would think how delighted and happy she is to have secured such a situation . 
You will excuse her not coming to you she is not able she is gone into her own room I want her to lie down upon the bed . 
My dear , said I , I shall say you are laid down upon the bed but , however , she is not she is walking about the room . 
But , now that she has written her letters , she says she shall soon be well . 
She will be extremely sorry to miss seeing you , Miss Woodhouse , but your kindness will excuse her . 
It is only Mrs. Cole , said I , depend upon it . 
Nobody else would come so early . 
Well , said she , it must be borne some time or other , and it may as well be now . 
But then Patty came in , and said it was you . 
Oh ! said I , it is Miss Woodhouse I am sure you will like to see her . 
I can see nobody , said she and up she got , and would go away and that was what made us keep you waiting and extremely sorry and ashamed we were . 
If you must go , my dear , said I , you must , and I will say you are laid down upon the bed . 
Emma was most sincerely interested . 
It must be a severe trial to them all . 
She had understood it was to be delayed till Colonel Campbell's return . 
So very kind ! replied Miss Bates . 
But you are always kind . 
Jane will be only four miles from Maple Grove . 
Mrs. Elton , I suppose , has been the person to whom Miss Fairfax owes Yes , our good Mrs. Elton . 
The most indefatigable , true friend . 
She would not take a denial . 
I did not know a word of it till it was all settled . 
You spent the evening with Mrs. Elton ? Yes , all of us Mrs. Elton would have us come . 
It was settled so , upon the hill , while we were walking about with Mr. Knightley . 
You must all spend your evening with us , said she I positively must have you all come . 
Such kind friends , you know , Miss Woodhouse , one must always find agreeable , though every body seemed rather fagged after the morning's party . 
Even pleasure , you know , is fatiguing and I cannot say that any of them seemed very much to have enjoyed it . 
However , I shall always think it a very pleasant party , and feel extremely obliged to the kind friends who included me in it . 
Miss Fairfax , I suppose , though you were not aware of it , had been making up her mind the whole day ? I dare say she had . 
Thank you , dear Miss Woodhouse . 
Yes , indeed , there is every thing in the world that can make her happy in it . 
Except the Sucklings and Bragges , there is not such another nursery establishment , so liberal and elegant , in all Mrs. Elton's acquaintance . 
Jane will be treated with such regard and kindness ! It will be nothing but pleasure , a life of pleasure . 
And her salary ! I really cannot venture to name her salary to you , Miss Woodhouse . 
Even you , used as you are to great sums , would hardly believe that so much could be given to a young person like Jane . 
You are so noble in your ideas ! And when is Miss Fairfax to leave you ? Very soon , very soon , indeed that's the worst of it . 
Mrs. Smallridge is in a great hurry . 
My poor mother does not know how to bear it . 
So then , I try to put it out of her thoughts , and say , Come ma'am , do not let us think about it any more . 
Mr. Elton was called out of the room before tea , old John Abdy's son wanted to speak with him . 
That was what happened before tea . 
It was after tea that Jane spoke to Mrs. Elton . 
There was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest , and it caught Emma's attention only as it united with the subject which already engaged her mind . 
What is to become of that ? Very true . 
Poor dear Jane was talking of it just now . 
You must go , said she . 
You and I must part . 
You will have no business here . 
Let it stay , however , said she give it houseroom till Colonel Campbell comes back . 
I shall talk about it to him he will settle for me he will help me out of all my difficulties . 
And to this day , I do believe , she knows not whether it was his present or his daughter's . 
CHAPTER IX Emma's pensive meditations , as she walked home , were not interrupted but on entering the parlour , she found those who must rouse her . 
Mr. Knightley and Harriet had arrived during her absence , and were sitting with her father . 
I am going to London , to spend a few days with John and Isabella . 
Have you any thing to send or say , besides the love , which nobody carries ? Nothing at all . 
But is not this a sudden scheme ? Yes rather I have been thinking of it some little time . 
Emma was sure he had not forgiven her he looked unlike himself . 
Time , however , she thought , would tell him that they ought to be friends again . 
While he stood , as if meaning to go , but not going her father began his inquiries . 
Dear Emma has been to call on Mrs. and Miss Bates , Mr. Knightley , as I told you before . 
He looked at her with a glow of regard . 
She was warmly gratified and in another moment still more so , by a little movement of more than common friendliness on his part . 
Why he should feel such a scruple , why he should change his mind when it was all but done , she could not perceive . 
He would have judged better , she thought , if he had not stopped . 
It was with him , of so simple , yet so dignified a nature . 
She could not but recall the attempt with great satisfaction . 
It spoke such perfect amity . 
He left them immediately afterwards gone in a moment . 
He always moved with the alertness of a mind which could neither be undecided nor dilatory , but now he seemed more sudden than usual in his disappearance . 
He had been sitting with them half an hour , she found . 
He had long made up his mind to Jane Fairfax's going out as governess , and could talk of it cheerfully , but Mr. Knightley's going to London had been an unexpected blow . 
I am very glad , indeed , my dear , to hear she is to be so comfortably settled . 
Mrs. Elton is very good natured and agreeable , and I dare say her acquaintance are just what they ought to be . 
I hope it is a dry situation , and that her health will be taken good care of . 
It ought to be a first object , as I am sure poor Miss Taylor's always was with me . 
You know , my dear , she is going to be to this new lady what Miss Taylor was to us . 
And I hope she will be better off in one respect , and not be induced to go away after it has been her home so long . 
The following day brought news from Richmond to throw every thing else into the background . 
A sudden seizure of a different nature from any thing foreboded by her general state , had carried her off after a short struggle . 
The great Mrs. Churchill was no more . 
It was felt as such things must be felt . 
Mrs. Churchill , after being disliked at least twenty five years , was now spoken of with compassionate allowances . 
In one point she was fully justified . 
She had never been admitted before to be seriously ill . 
The event acquitted her of all the fancifulness , and all the selfishness of imaginary complaints . 
Poor Mrs. Churchill ! no doubt she had been suffering a great deal more than any body had ever supposed and continual pain would try the temper . 
It was a sad event a great shock with all her faults , what would Mr. Churchill do without her ? Mr. Churchill's loss would be dreadful indeed . 
Mr. Churchill would never get over it . 
How it would affect Frank was among the earliest thoughts of both . 
It was also a very early speculation with Emma . 
She saw in a moment all the possible good . 
Now , an attachment to Harriet Smith would have nothing to encounter . 
Mr. Churchill , independent of his wife , was feared by nobody an easy , guidable man , to be persuaded into any thing by his nephew . 
Harriet behaved extremely well on the occasion , with great self command . 
What ever she might feel of brighter hope , she betrayed nothing . 
Emma was gratified , to observe such a proof in her of strengthened character , and refrained from any allusion that might endanger its maintenance . 
They spoke , therefore , of Mrs. Churchill's death with mutual forbearance . 
Short letters from Frank were received at Randalls , communicating all that was immediately important of their state and plans . 
At present , there was nothing to be done for Harriet good wishes for the future were all that could yet be possible on Emma's side . 
She wanted to be of use to her wanted to shew a value for her society , and testify respect and consideration . 
She resolved to prevail on her to spend a day at Hartfield . 
A note was written to urge it . 
The invitation was refused , and by a verbal message . 
He thought she had undertaken more than she was equal to , and that she felt it so herself , though she would not own it . 
Her care and attention could not be questioned they were , in fact , only too great . 
He very much feared that Miss Fairfax derived more evil than good from them . 
Emma listened with the warmest concern grieved for her more and more , and looked around eager to discover some way of being useful . 
The answer was only in this short note Miss Fairfax's compliments and thanks , but is quite unequal to any exercise . 
Miss Bates was obliged to return without success Jane was quite unpersuadable the mere proposal of going out seemed to make her worse . 
On that subject poor Miss Bates was very unhappy , and very communicative Jane would hardly eat any thing Mr. Perry recommended nourishing food but every thing they could command was distasteful . 
She was sorry , very sorry . 
Mrs. Weston wants to see you . 
Is she unwell ? No , no , not at all only a little agitated . 
Humph ! Can you come ? Certainly . 
This moment , if you please . 
It is impossible to refuse what you ask in such a way . 
But what can be the matter ? Is she really not ill ? Depend upon me but ask no more questions . 
You will know it all in time . 
The most unaccountable business ! But hush , hush ! To guess what all this meant , was impossible even for Emma . 
Now , said Emma , when they were fairly beyond the sweep gates , now Mr. Weston , do let me know what has happened . 
No , no , he gravely replied . 
I promised my wife to leave it all to her . 
She will break it to you better than I can . 
Do not be impatient , Emma it will all come out too soon . 
Break it to me , cried Emma , standing still with terror . 
Good God ! Mr. Weston , tell me at once . 
Something has happened in Brunswick Square . 
Tell me , I charge you tell me this moment what it is . 
No , indeed you are mistaken . 
Mr. Weston do not trifle with me . 
Consider how many of my dearest friends are now in Brunswick Square . 
Which of them is it ? I charge you by all that is sacred , not to attempt concealment . 
Upon my word , Emma . 
It is not in the smallest degree connected with any human being of the name of Knightley . 
Emma's courage returned , and she walked on . 
I was wrong , he continued , in talking of its being broke to you . 
I should not have used the expression . 
In fact , it does not concern you it concerns only myself , that is , we hope . 
Humph ! In short , my dear Emma , there is no occasion to be so uneasy about it . 
I don't say that it is not a disagreeable business but things might be much worse . 
If we walk fast , we shall soon be at Randalls . 
Emma found that she must wait and now it required little effort . 
Her fancy was very active . 
Half a dozen natural children , perhaps and poor Frank cut off ! This , though very undesirable , would be no matter of agony to her . 
It inspired little more than an animating curiosity . 
Who is that gentleman on horseback ? said she , as they proceeded speaking more to assist Mr. Weston in keeping his secret , than with any other view . 
Not Frank it is not Frank , I assure you . 
You will not see him . 
He is half way to Windsor by this time . 
Has your son been with you , then ? Oh ! yes did not you know ? Well , well , never mind . 
They hurried on , and were speedily at Randalls . 
Well , my dear , said he , as they entered the room I have brought her , and now I hope you will soon be better . 
I shall leave you together . 
There is no use in delay . 
I shall not be far off , if you want me . 
And Emma distinctly heard him add , in a lower tone , before he quitted the room , I have been as good as my word . 
She has not the least idea . 
I have been walking all this way in complete suspense . 
Do not let mine continue longer . 
It will do you good to speak of your distress , whatever it may be . 
Have you indeed no idea ? said Mrs. Weston in a trembling voice . 
Cannot you , my dear Emma cannot you form a guess as to what you are to hear ? So far as that it relates to Mr. Frank Churchill , I do guess . 
He has been here this very morning , on a most extraordinary errand . 
It is impossible to express our surprize . 
He came to speak to his father on a subject , to announce an attachment She stopped to breathe . 
Emma thought first of herself , and then of Harriet . 
More than an attachment , indeed , resumed Mrs. Weston an engagement a positive engagement . 
But it is even so . 
There has been a solemn engagement between them ever since October formed at Weymouth , and kept a secret from every body . 
Not a creature knowing it but themselves neither the Campbells , nor her family , nor his . 
It is so wonderful , that though perfectly convinced of the fact , it is yet almost incredible to myself . 
I can hardly believe it . 
I thought I knew him . 
Emma scarcely heard what was said . 
Well , said she at last , trying to recover herself this is a circumstance which I must think of at least half a day , before I can at all comprehend it . 
What ! engaged to her all the winter before either of them came to Highbury ? Engaged since October , secretly engaged . 
It has hurt me , Emma , very much . 
It has hurt his father equally . 
Some part of his conduct we cannot excuse . 
Mrs. Weston looked up , afraid to believe but Emma's countenance was as steady as her words . 
Fortunately , however , it did cease . 
I have really for some time past , for at least these three months , cared nothing about him . 
You may believe me , Mrs. Weston . 
This is the simple truth . 
Mr. Weston will be almost as much relieved as myself , said she . 
On this point we have been wretched . 
It was our darling wish that you might be attached to each other and we were persuaded that it was so . 
Imagine what we have been feeling on your account . 
I have escaped and that I should escape , may be a matter of grateful wonder to you and myself . 
But this does not acquit him , Mrs. Weston and I must say , that I think him greatly to blame . 
That is a degree of placidity , which I can neither comprehend nor respect . 
There were misunderstandings between them , Emma he said so expressly . 
He had not time to enter into much explanation . 
The present crisis , indeed , seemed to be brought on by them and those misunderstandings might very possibly arise from the impropriety of his conduct . 
Impropriety ! Oh ! Mrs. Weston it is too calm a censure . 
Much , much beyond impropriety ! It has sunk him , I cannot say how it has sunk him in my opinion . 
On this article I can fully acquit him . 
It was a private resolution of hers , not communicated to him or at least not communicated in a way to carry conviction . 
Till yesterday , I know he said he was in the dark as to her plans . 
Emma began to listen better . 
I am to hear from him soon , continued Mrs. Weston . 
He told me at parting , that he should soon write and he spoke in a manner which seemed to promise me many particulars that could not be given now . 
Let us wait , therefore , for this letter . 
It may bring many extenuations . 
It may make many things intelligible and excusable which now are not to be understood . 
Don't let us be severe , don't let us be in a hurry to condemn him . 
They must both have suffered a great deal under such a system of secresy and concealment . 
His sufferings , replied Emma dryly , do not appear to have done him much harm . 
Well , and how did Mr. Churchill take it ? Most favourably for his nephew gave his consent with scarcely a difficulty . 
What a blessing it is , when undue influence does not survive the grave ! He gave his consent with very little persuasion . 
Ah ! thought Emma , he would have done as much for Harriet . 
This was settled last night , and Frank was off with the light this morning . 
He was very much agitated very much , indeed to a degree that made him appear quite a different creature from any thing I had ever seen him before . 
He positively said that it had been known to no being in the world but their two selves . 
Well , said Emma , I suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled to the idea , and I wish them very happy . 
But I shall always think it a very abominable sort of proceeding . 
They must take the consequence , if they have heard each other spoken of in a way not perfectly agreeable ! I am quite easy on that head , replied Mrs. Weston . 
I am very sure that I never said any thing of either to the other , which both might not have heard . 
Your only blunder was confined to my ear , when you imagined a certain friend of ours in love with the lady . 
At this moment Mr. Weston appeared at a little distance from the window , evidently on the watch . 
Let us make the best of it and , indeed , almost every thing may be fairly said in her favour . 
And how much may be said in her situation for even that error ! Much , indeed ! cried Emma feelingly . 
If a woman can ever be excused for thinking only of herself , it is in a situation like Jane Fairfax's . 
Of such , one may almost say , that the world is not their's , nor the world's law . 
But you really frightened me . 
I thought you had lost half your property , at least . 
And here , instead of its being a matter of condolence , it turns out to be one of congratulation . 
I congratulate you , Mr. Weston , with all my heart , on the prospect of having one of the most lovely and accomplished young women in England for your daughter . 
A glance or two between him and his wife , convinced him that all was as right as this speech proclaimed and its happy effect on his spirits was immediate . 
Frank Churchill had behaved very ill by herself very ill in many ways , but it was not so much his behaviour as her own , which made her so angry with him . 
It was the scrape which he had drawn her into on Harriet's account , that gave the deepest hue to his offence . 
Poor Harriet ! to be a second time the dupe of her misconceptions and flattery . 
Mr. Knightley had spoken prophetically , when he once said , Emma , you have been no friend to Harriet Smith . 
She was afraid she had done her nothing but disservice . 
She might have prevented the indulgence and increase of such sentiments . 
Her influence would have been enough . 
And now she was very conscious that she ought to have prevented them . 
She felt that she had been risking her friend's happiness on most insufficient grounds . 
But , with common sense , she added , I am afraid I have had little to do . 
She was extremely angry with herself . 
If she could not have been angry with Frank Churchill too , it would have been dreadful . 
As for Jane Fairfax , she might at least relieve her feelings from any present solicitude on her account . 
Her days of insignificance and evil were over . 
She would soon be well , and happy , and prosperous . 
Emma could now imagine why her own attentions had been slighted . 
This discovery laid many smaller matters open . 
No doubt it had been from jealousy . 
In Jane's eyes she had been a rival and well might any thing she could offer of assistance or regard be repulsed . 
An airing in the Hartfield carriage would have been the rack , and arrowroot from the Hartfield storeroom must have been poison . 
But poor Harriet was such an engrossing charge ! There was little sympathy to be spared for any body else . 
Emma was sadly fearful that this second disappointment would be more severe than the first . 
Considering the very superior claims of the object , it ought and judging by its apparently stronger effect on Harriet's mind , producing reserve and self command , it would . 
She must communicate the painful truth , however , and as soon as possible . 
An injunction of secresy had been among Mr. Weston's parting words . 
For the present , the whole affair was to be completely a secret . 
Emma had promised but still Harriet must be excepted . 
It was her superior duty . 
The intelligence , which had been so anxiously announced to her , she was now to be anxiously announcing to another . 
Her heart beat quick on hearing Harriet's footstep and voice so , she supposed , had poor Mrs. Weston felt when she was approaching Randalls . 
Could the event of the disclosure bear an equal resemblance ! But of that , unfortunately , there could be no chance . 
Did you ever hear any thing so strange ? Oh ! you need not be afraid of owning it to me , for Mr. Weston has told me himself . 
I met him just now . 
He told me it was to be a great secret and , therefore , I should not think of mentioning it to any body but you , but he said you knew it . 
What did Mr. Weston tell you ? said Emma , still perplexed . 
Oh ! he told me all about it that Jane Fairfax and Mr. Frank Churchill are to be married , and that they have been privately engaged to one another this long while . 
How very odd ! It was , indeed , so odd Harriet's behaviour was so extremely odd , that Emma did not know how to understand it . 
Her character appeared absolutely changed . 
She seemed to propose shewing no agitation , or disappointment , or peculiar concern in the discovery . 
Emma looked at her , quite unable to speak . 
Had you any idea , cried Harriet , of his being in love with her ? You , perhaps , might . 
who can see into every body's heart but nobody else Upon my word , said Emma , I begin to doubt my having any such talent . 
You may be very sure that if I had , I should have cautioned you accordingly . 
Me ! cried Harriet , colouring , and astonished . 
Why should you caution me ? You do not think I care about Mr. Frank Churchill . 
Dear Miss Woodhouse , how could you so mistake me ? turning away distressed . 
Her voice was lost and she sat down , waiting in great terror till Harriet should answer . 
Mr. Frank Churchill , indeed ! I do not know who would ever look at him in the company of the other . 
I hope I have a better taste than to think of Mr. Frank Churchill , who is like nobody by his side . 
Are you speaking of Mr. Knightley ? To be sure I am . 
I never could have an idea of any body else and so I thought you knew . 
When we talked about him , it was as clear as possible . 
Not quite , returned Emma , with forced calmness , for all that you then said , appeared to me to relate to a different person . 
I could almost assert that you had named Mr. Frank Churchill . 
I am sure the service Mr. Frank Churchill had rendered you , in protecting you from the gipsies , was spoken of . 
Oh ! Miss Woodhouse , how you do forget ! My dear Harriet , I perfectly remember the substance of what I said on the occasion . 
The impression of it is strong on my memory . 
Oh , dear , cried Harriet , now I recollect what you mean but I was thinking of something very different at the time . 
It was not the gipsies it was not Mr. Frank Churchill that I meant . 
That was the kind action that was the noble benevolence and generosity that was the service which made me begin to feel how superior he was to every other being upon earth . 
I do not wonder , Miss Woodhouse , she resumed , that you should feel a great difference between the two , as to me or as to any body . 
You must think one five hundred million times more above me than the other . 
But I hope , Miss Woodhouse , that supposing that if strange as it may appear . 
But you are too good for that , I am sure . 
Harriet was standing at one of the windows . 
Emma's eyes were instantly withdrawn and she sat silently meditating , in a fixed attitude , for a few minutes . 
A few minutes were sufficient for making her acquainted with her own heart . 
A mind like hers , once opening to suspicion , made rapid progress . 
She touched she admitted she acknowledged the whole truth . 
She saw it all with a clearness which had never blessed her before . 
gave Emma the resolution to sit and endure farther with calmness , with even apparent kindness . 
Neither of them thought but of Mr. Knightley and themselves . 
Emma's tremblings as she asked , and as she listened , were better concealed than Harriet's , but they were not less . 
She listened with much inward suffering , but with great outward patience , to Harriet's detail . 
Harriet had been conscious of a difference in his behaviour ever since those two decisive dances . 
Emma knew that he had , on that occasion , found her much superior to his expectation . 
When they had been all walking together , he had so often come and walked by her , and talked so very delightfully ! He seemed to want to be acquainted with her . 
Emma knew it to have been very much the case . 
She had often observed the change , to almost the same extent . 
Harriet repeated expressions of approbation and praise from him and Emma felt them to be in the closest agreement with what she had known of his opinion of Harriet . 
He praised her for being without art or affectation , for having simple , honest , generous , feelings . 
She knew that he saw such recommendations in Harriet he had dwelt on them to her more than once . 
He seemed to be almost asking her , whether her affections were engaged . 
The superior degree of confidence towards Harriet , which this one article marked , gave her severe pain . 
On the subject of the first of the two circumstances , she did , after a little reflection , venture the following question . 
Mr. Martin ! No indeed ! There was not a hint of Mr. Martin . 
I hope I know better now , than to care for Mr. Martin , or to be suspected of it . 
When Harriet had closed her evidence , she appealed to her dear Miss Woodhouse , to say whether she had not good ground for hope . 
I never should have presumed to think of it at first , said she , but for you . 
You told me to observe him carefully , and let his behaviour be the rule of mine and so I have . 
But now I seem to feel that I may deserve him and that if he does chuse me , it will not be any thing so very wonderful . 
He was coming through the hall . 
Harriet was too much agitated to encounter him . 
She was bewildered amidst the confusion of all that had rushed on her within the last few hours . 
Every moment had brought a fresh surprize and every surprize must be matter of humiliation to her . 
To understand , thoroughly understand her own heart , was the first endeavour . 
To that point went every leisure moment which her father's claims on her allowed , and every moment of involuntary absence of mind . 
This was the knowledge of herself , on the first question of inquiry , which she reached and without being long in reaching it . 
She was most sorrowfully indignant ashamed of every sensation but the one revealed to her her affection for Mr. Knightley . 
Every other part of her mind was disgusting . 
With insufferable vanity had she believed herself in the secret of every body's feelings with unpardonable arrogance proposed to arrange every body's destiny . 
She was proved to have been universally mistaken and she had not quite done nothing for she had done mischief . 
She had brought evil on Harriet , on herself , and she too much feared , on Mr. Knightley . 
Mr. Knightley and Harriet Smith ! It was a union to distance every wonder of the kind . 
The attachment of Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax became commonplace , threadbare , stale in the comparison , exciting no surprize , presenting no disparity , affording nothing to be said or thought . 
Could it be ? No it was impossible . 
And yet it was far , very far , from impossible . 
Her inferiority , whether of mind or situation , seemed little felt . 
She had seemed more sensible of Mr. Elton's being to stoop in marrying her , than she now seemed of Mr. Knightley's . 
She had herself been first with him for many years past . 
Harriet Smith might think herself not unworthy of being peculiarly , exclusively , passionately loved by Mr. Knightley . 
She could not flatter herself with any idea of blindness in his attachment to her . 
She had received a very recent proof of its impartiality . 
that Harriet might have deceived herself , and be overrating his regard for her . 
Wish it she must , for his sake be the consequence nothing to herself , but his remaining single all his life . 
Could she be secure of that , indeed , of his never marrying at all , she believed she should be perfectly satisfied . 
Marriage , in fact , would not do for her . 
It would be incompatible with what she owed to her father , and with what she felt for him . 
Nothing should separate her from her father . 
She would not marry , even if she were asked by Mr. Knightley . 
He was expected back every day . 
The power of observation would be soon given frightfully soon it appeared when her thoughts were in one course . 
In the meanwhile , she resolved against seeing Harriet . 
It would do neither of them good , it would do the subject no good , to be talking of it farther . 
She was resolved not to be convinced , as long as she could doubt , and yet had no authority for opposing Harriet's confidence . 
To talk would be only to irritate . 
Harriet submitted , and approved , and was grateful . 
A little curiosity Emma had and she made the most of it while her friend related . 
Emma smiled , and felt that Mr. Weston had very good reason for saying so . 
They had gone , in short and very great had been the evident distress and confusion of the lady . 
She had hardly been able to speak a word , and every look and action had shewn how deeply she was suffering from consciousness . 
On the misery of what she had suffered , during the concealment of so many months , continued Mrs. Weston , she was energetic . 
This was one of her expressions . 
Poor girl ! said Emma . 
The consequence , said she , has been a state of perpetual suffering to me and so it ought . 
But after all the punishment that misconduct can bring , it is still not less misconduct . 
I never can be blameless . 
Do not imagine , madam , she continued , that I was taught wrong . 
Do not let any reflection fall on the principles or the care of the friends who brought me up . 
Poor girl ! said Emma again . 
She loves him then excessively , I suppose . 
It must have been from attachment only , that she could be led to form the engagement . 
Her affection must have overpowered her judgment . 
Yes , I have no doubt of her being extremely attached to him . 
I am afraid , returned Emma , sighing , that I must often have contributed to make her unhappy . 
On your side , my love , it was very innocently done . 
But she probably had something of that in her thoughts , when alluding to the misunderstandings which he had given us hints of before . 
One natural consequence of the evil she had involved herself in , she said , was that of making her unreasonable . 
She was sensible that you had never received any proper acknowledgment from herself . 
, this is all to be forgotten . 
You are very kind to bring me these interesting particulars . 
They shew her to the greatest advantage . 
I am sure she is very good I hope she will be very happy . 
It is fit that the fortune should be on his side , for I think the merit will be all on hers . 
Such a conclusion could not pass unanswered by Mrs. Weston . 
She thought well of Frank in almost every respect and , what was more , she loved him very much , and her defence was , therefore , earnest . 
Are you well , my Emma ? was Mrs. Weston's parting question . 
I am always well , you know . 
Be sure to give me intelligence of the letter as soon as possible . 
Mrs. Weston's communications furnished Emma with more food for unpleasant reflection , by increasing her esteem and compassion , and her sense of past injustice towards Miss Fairfax . 
She bitterly regretted not having sought a closer acquaintance with her , and blushed for the envious feelings which had certainly been , in some measure , the cause . 
Of all the sources of evil surrounding the former , since her coming to Highbury , she was persuaded that she must herself have been the worst . 
She must have been a perpetual enemy . 
The evening of this day was very long , and melancholy , at Hartfield . 
The weather added what it could of gloom . 
Alas ! such delightful proofs of Hartfield's attraction , as those sort of visits conveyed , might shortly be over . 
The picture which she had then drawn of the privations of the approaching winter , had proved erroneous no friends had deserted them , no pleasures had been lost . 
But her present forebodings she feared would experience no similar contradiction . 
The prospect before her now , was threatening to a degree that could not be entirely dispelled that might not be even partially brightened . 
The child to be born at Randalls must be a tie there even dearer than herself and Mrs. Weston's heart and time would be occupied by it . 
They should lose her and , probably , in great measure , her husband also . 
Frank Churchill would return among them no more and Miss Fairfax , it was reasonable to suppose , would soon cease to belong to Highbury . 
They would be married , and settled either at or near Enscombe . 
With all the eagerness which such a transition gives , Emma resolved to be out of doors as soon as possible . 
Never had the exquisite sight , smell , sensation of nature , tranquil , warm , and brilliant after a storm , been more attractive to her . 
It was the first intimation of his being returned from London . 
She had been thinking of him the moment before , as unquestionably sixteen miles distant . 
There was time only for the quickest arrangement of mind . 
She must be collected and calm . 
In half a minute they were together . 
The How d'ye do's were quiet and constrained on each side . 
She asked after their mutual friends they were all well . 
When had he left them ? Only that morning . 
He must have had a wet ride . 
He meant to walk with her , she found . 
He had just looked into the dining room , and as he was not wanted there , preferred being out of doors . 
She thought he was often looking at her , and trying for a fuller view of her face than it suited her to give . 
And this belief produced another dread . 
Perhaps he wanted to speak to her , of his attachment to Harriet he might be watching for encouragement to begin . 
She did not , could not , feel equal to lead the way to any such subject . 
He must do it all himself . 
Yet she could not bear this silence . 
With him it was most unnatural . 
She considered resolved and , trying to smile , began You have some news to hear , now you are come back , that will rather surprize you . 
Have I ? said he quietly , and looking at her of what nature ? Oh ! the best nature in the world a wedding . 
I had a few lines on parish business from Mr. Weston this morning , and at the end of them he gave me a brief account of what had happened . 
Emma was quite relieved , and could presently say , with a little more composure , You probably have been less surprized than any of us , for you have had your suspicions . 
I have not forgotten that you once tried to give me a caution . 
I seem to have been doomed to blindness . 
Your own excellent sense your exertions for your father's sake I know you will not allow yourself . 
They will soon be in Yorkshire . 
I am sorry for her . 
She deserves a better fate . 
I am not in want of that sort of compassion . 
He is no object of regret , indeed ! and it will not be very long , I hope , before that becomes the acknowledgment of more than your reason . 
He is a disgrace to the name of man . 
And is he to be rewarded with that sweet young woman ? Jane , Jane , you will be a miserable creature . 
Mr. Knightley , said Emma , trying to be lively , but really confused I am in a very extraordinary situation . 
He listened in perfect silence . 
She wished him to speak , but he would not . 
She supposed she must say more before she were entitled to his clemency but it was a hard case to be obliged still to lower herself in his opinion . 
She went on , however . 
I have very little to say for my own conduct . 
I was tempted by his attentions , and allowed myself to appear pleased . 
Many circumstances assisted the temptation . 
let me swell out the causes ever so ingeniously , they all centre in this at last my vanity was flattered , and I allowed his attentions . 
Latterly , however for some time , indeed I have had no idea of their meaning any thing . 
I thought them a habit , a trick , nothing that called for seriousness on my side . 
He has imposed on me , but he has not injured me . 
I have never been attached to him . 
And now I can tolerably comprehend his behaviour . 
He never wished to attach me . 
It was merely a blind to conceal his real situation with another . 
At last , and tolerably in his usual tone , he said , I have never had a high opinion of Frank Churchill . 
I can suppose , however , that I may have underrated him . 
My acquaintance with him has been but trifling . 
And even if I have not underrated him hitherto , he may yet turn out well . 
With such a woman he has a chance . 
I have no motive for wishing him ill and for her sake , whose happiness will be involved in his good character and conduct , I shall certainly wish him well . 
I have no doubt of their being happy together , said Emma I believe them to be very mutually and very sincerely attached . 
He is a most fortunate man ! returned Mr. Knightley , with energy . 
So early in life at three and twenty a period when , if a man chuses a wife , he generally chuses ill . 
Frank Churchill is , indeed , the favourite of fortune . 
Every thing turns out for his good . 
His aunt is in the way . 
He has only to speak . 
His friends are eager to promote his happiness . 
He had used every body ill and they are all delighted to forgive him . 
He is a fortunate man indeed ! You speak as if you envied him . 
And I do envy him , Emma . 
In one respect he is the object of my envy . 
Emma could say no more . 
They seemed to be within half a sentence of Harriet , and her immediate feeling was to avert the subject , if possible . 
You are determined , I see , to have no curiosity . 
You are wise but I cannot be wise . 
Emma , I must tell you what you will not ask , though I may wish it unsaid the next moment . 
Oh ! then , don't speak it , don't speak it , she eagerly cried . 
Take a little time , consider , do not commit yourself . 
Thank you , said he , in an accent of deep mortification , and not another syllable followed . 
Emma could not bear to give him pain . 
He was wishing to confide in her perhaps to consult her cost her what it would , she would listen . 
They had reached the house . 
You are going in , I suppose ? said he . 
No , replied Emma quite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spoke I should like to take another turn . 
Mr. Perry is not gone . 
And , after proceeding a few steps , she added I stopped you ungraciously , just now , Mr. Knightley , and , I am afraid , gave you pain . 
I will hear whatever you like . 
I will tell you exactly what I think . 
As a friend ! repeated Mr. Knightley . 
Emma , that I fear is a word No , I have no wish Stay , yes , why should I hesitate ? I have gone too far already for concealment . 
Emma , I accept your offer Extraordinary as it may seem , I accept it , and refer myself to you as a friend . 
Tell me , then , have I no chance of ever succeeding ? He stopped in his earnestness to look the question , and the expression of his eyes overpowered her . 
My dearest Emma , said he , for dearest you will always be , whatever the event of this hour's conversation , my dearest , most beloved Emma tell me at once . 
Say No , if it is to be said . 
She could really say nothing . 
You are silent , he cried , with great animation absolutely silent ! at present I ask no more . 
Emma was almost ready to sink under the agitation of this moment . 
The dread of being awakened from the happiest dream , was perhaps the most prominent feeling . 
I cannot make speeches , Emma he soon resumed and in a tone of such sincere , decided , intelligible tenderness as was tolerably convincing . 
If I loved you less , I might be able to talk about it more . 
But you know what I am . 
You hear nothing but truth from me . 
I have blamed you , and lectured you , and you have borne it as no other woman in England would have borne it . 
Bear with the truths I would tell you now , dearest Emma , as well as you have borne with them . 
The manner , perhaps , may have as little to recommend them . 
God knows , I have been a very indifferent lover . 
Yes , you see , you understand my feelings and will return them if you can . 
At present , I ask only to hear , once to hear your voice . 
She felt for Harriet , with pain and with contrition but no flight of generosity run mad , opposing all that could be probable or reasonable , entered her brain . 
Her way was clear , though not quite smooth . 
She spoke then , on being so entreated . 
What did she say ? Just what she ought , of course . 
She said enough to shew there need not be despair and to invite him to say more himself . 
He had despaired at one period he had received such an injunction to caution and silence , as for the time crushed every hope she had begun by refusing to hear him . 
Mr. Knightley could not impute to Emma a more relenting heart than she possessed , or a heart more disposed to accept of his . 
He had , in fact , been wholly unsuspicious of his own influence . 
He had followed her into the shrubbery with no idea of trying it . 
The rest had been the work of the moment , the immediate effect of what he heard , on his feelings . 
The superior hopes which gradually opened were so much the more enchanting . 
This one half hour had given to each the same precious certainty of being beloved , had cleared from each the same degree of ignorance , jealousy , or distrust . 
On his side , there had been a long standing jealousy , old as the arrival , or even the expectation , of Frank Churchill . 
He had been in love with Emma , and jealous of Frank Churchill , from about the same period , one sentiment having probably enlightened him as to the other . 
It was his jealousy of Frank Churchill that had taken him from the country . 
The Box Hill party had decided him on going away . 
He would save himself from witnessing again such permitted , encouraged attentions . 
He had gone to learn to be indifferent . 
But he had gone to a wrong place . 
He had stayed on , however , vigorously , day after day till this very morning's post had conveyed the history of Jane Fairfax . 
He had found her agitated and low . 
Frank Churchill was a villain . 
He heard her declare that she had never loved him . 
Frank Churchill's character was not desperate . 
She could not be alone without feeling the full weight of their separate claims and how to guard the comfort of both to the utmost , was the question . 
With respect to her father , it was a question soon answered . 
She hardly knew yet what Mr. Knightley would ask but a very short parley with her own heart produced the most solemn resolution of never quitting her father . 
She even wept over the idea of it , as a sin of thought . 
Isabella had been pleased with Harriet and a few weeks spent in London must give her some amusement . 
She did not think it in Harriet's nature to escape being benefited by novelty and variety , by the streets , the shops , and the children . 
It must be waded through , however . 
She opened the packet it was too surely so a note from Mrs. Weston to herself , ushered in the letter from Frank to Mrs. Weston . 
I have the greatest pleasure , my dear Emma , in forwarding to you the enclosed . 
I know what thorough justice you will do it , and have scarcely a doubt of its happy effect . 
I think we shall never materially disagree about the writer again but I will not delay you by a long preface . 
This letter has been the cure of all the little nervousness I have been feeling lately . 
Yours ever , A. W. To Mrs. Weston . 
MY DEAR MADAM , If I made myself intelligible yesterday , this letter will be expected but expected or not , I know it will be read with candour and indulgence . 
You are all goodness , and I believe there will be need of even all your goodness to allow for some parts of my past conduct . 
But I have been forgiven by one who had still more to resent . 
My courage rises while I write . 
It is very difficult for the prosperous to be humble . 
My right to place myself in a situation requiring such concealment , is another question . 
I shall not discuss it here . 
For my temptation to think it a right , I refer every caviller to a brick house , sashed windows below , and casements above , in Highbury . 
Had she refused , I should have gone mad . 
Every possibility of good was before me , and the first of blessings secured , in obtaining her promises of faith and correspondence . 
See me , then , under these circumstances , arriving on my first visit to Randalls and here I am conscious of wrong , for that visit might have been sooner paid . 
My behaviour , during the very happy fortnight which I spent with you , did not , I hope , lay me open to reprehension , excepting on one point . 
And now I come to the principal , the only important part of my conduct while belonging to you , which excites my own anxiety , or requires very solicitous explanation . 
With the greatest respect , and the warmest friendship , do I mention Miss Woodhouse my father perhaps will think I ought to add , with the deepest humiliation . 
A few words which dropped from him yesterday spoke his opinion , and some censure I acknowledge myself liable to . 
My behaviour to Miss Woodhouse indicated , I believe , more than it ought . 
In order to assist a concealment so essential to me , I was led on to make more than an allowable use of the sort of intimacy into which we were immediately thrown . 
She received my attentions with an easy , friendly , goodhumoured playfulness , which exactly suited me . 
We seemed to understand each other . 
From our relative situation , those attentions were her due , and were felt to be so . 
She may not have surmised the whole , but her quickness must have penetrated a part . 
You will find , whenever the subject becomes freed from its present restraints , that it did not take her wholly by surprize . 
She frequently gave me hints of it . 
I remember her telling me at the ball , that I owed Mrs. Elton gratitude for her attentions to Miss Fairfax . 
I hope this history of my conduct towards her will be admitted by you and my father as great extenuation of what you saw amiss . 
While you considered me as having sinned against Emma Woodhouse , I could deserve nothing from either . 
Whatever strange things I said or did during that fortnight , you have now a key to . 
My heart was in Highbury , and my business was to get my body thither as often as might be , and with the least suspicion . 
If you remember any queernesses , set them all to the right account . 
The delicacy of her mind throughout the whole engagement , my dear madam , is much beyond my power of doing justice to . 
You will soon , I earnestly hope , know her thoroughly yourself . 
No description can describe her . 
She must tell you herself what she is yet not by word , for never was there a human creature who would so designedly suppress her own merit . 
Since I began this letter , which will be longer than I foresaw , I have heard from her . 
She gives a good account of her own health but as she never complains , I dare not depend . 
I want to have your opinion of her looks . 
I know you will soon call on her she is living in dread of the visit . 
Perhaps it is paid already . 
Let me hear from you without delay I am impatient for a thousand particulars . 
Remember how few minutes I was at Randalls , and in how bewildered , how mad a state and I am not much better yet still insane either from happiness or misery . 
If I could but see her again ! But I must not propose it yet . 
My uncle has been too good for me to encroach . 
I must still add to this long letter . 
You have not heard all that you ought to hear . 
I should myself have shrunk from any thing so hasty , and she would have felt every scruple of mine with multiplied strength and refinement . 
But I had no choice . 
The hasty engagement she had entered into with that woman Here , my dear madam , I was obliged to leave off abruptly , to recollect and compose myself . 
I have been walking over the country , and am now , I hope , rational enough to make the rest of my letter what it ought to be . 
It is , in fact , a most mortifying retrospect for me . 
And here I can admit , that my manners to Miss W. , in being unpleasant to Miss F. , were highly blameable . 
She disapproved them , which ought to have been enough . 
My plea of concealing the truth she did not think sufficient . 
She was displeased I thought unreasonably so I thought her , on a thousand occasions , unnecessarily scrupulous and cautious I thought her even cold . 
But she was always right . 
If I had followed her judgment , and subdued my spirits to the level of what she deemed proper , I should have escaped the greatest unhappiness I have ever known . 
Do you remember the morning spent at Donwell ? There every little dissatisfaction that had occurred before came to a crisis . 
I was late I met her walking home by herself , and wanted to walk with her , but she would not suffer it . 
She absolutely refused to allow me , which I then thought most unreasonable . 
Now , however , I see nothing in it but a very natural and consistent degree of discretion . 
I was mad enough , however , to resent . 
I shall always congratulate myself that you were not of the Box Hill party . 
Had you witnessed my behaviour there , I can hardly suppose you would ever have thought well of me again . 
Jane , indeed ! You will observe that I have not yet indulged myself in calling her by that name , even to you . 
Think , then , what I must have endured in hearing it bandied between the Eltons with all the vulgarity of needless repetition , and all the insolence of imaginary superiority . 
Have patience with me , I shall soon have done . 
She closed with this offer , resolving to break with me entirely , and wrote the next day to tell me that we never were to meet again . 
She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each she dissolved it . 
This letter reached me on the very morning of my poor aunt's death . 
I knew the name , the place , I knew all about it , and instantly saw what she had been doing . 
For the world would not she have seemed to threaten me . 
Imagine the shock imagine how , till I had actually detected my own blunder , I raved at the blunders of the post . 
What was to be done ? One thing only . 
I must speak to my uncle . 
Without his sanction I could not hope to be listened to again . 
I felt that it would be of a different sort . 
Do not pity me till I saw her wan , sick looks . 
I reached Highbury at the time of day when , from my knowledge of their late breakfast hour , I was certain of a good chance of finding her alone . 
I was not disappointed and at last I was not disappointed either in the object of my journey . 
A great deal of very reasonable , very just displeasure I had to persuade away . 
But it is done we are reconciled , dearer , much dearer , than ever , and no moment's uneasiness can ever occur between us again . 
Now , my dear madam , I will release you but I could not conclude before . 
A thousand and a thousand thanks for all the kindness you have ever shewn me , and ten thousand for the attentions your heart will dictate towards her . 
If you think me in a way to be happier than I deserve , I am quite of your opinion . 
Miss W. calls me the child of good fortune . 
I hope she is right . 
In one respect , my good fortune is undoubted , that of being able to subscribe myself , Your obliged and affectionate Son , F. C. WESTON CHURCHILL . 
CHAPTER XV This letter must make its way to Emma's feelings . 
She was obliged , in spite of her previous determination to the contrary , to do it all the justice that Mrs. Weston foretold . 
She thought so well of the letter , that when Mr. Knightley came again , she desired him to read it . 
She was sure of Mrs. Weston's wishing it to be communicated especially to one , who , like Mr. Knightley , had seen so much to blame in his conduct . 
I shall be very glad to look it over , said he but it seems long . 
I will take it home with me at night . 
But that would not do . 
Mr. Weston was to call in the evening , and she must return it by him . 
I would rather be talking to you , he replied but as it seems a matter of justice , it shall be done . 
He proceeded a little farther , reading to himself and then , with a smile , observed , Humph ! a fine complimentary opening But it is his way . 
One man's style must not be the rule of another's . 
We will not be severe . 
It will be natural for me , he added shortly afterwards , to speak my opinion aloud as I read . 
By doing it , I shall feel that I am near you . 
It will not be so great a loss of time but if you dislike it Not at all . 
Mr. Knightley returned to his reading with greater alacrity . 
He trifles here , said he , as to the temptation . 
He knows he is wrong , and has nothing rational to urge . 
He ought not to have formed the engagement . 
His father's disposition he is unjust , however , to his father . 
Mr. Weston's sanguine temper was a blessing on all his upright and honourable exertions but Mr. Weston earned every present comfort before he endeavoured to gain it . 
Very true he did not come till Miss Fairfax was here . 
And I have not forgotten , said Emma , how sure you were that he might have come sooner if he would . 
You pass it over very handsomely but you were perfectly right . 
I was not quite impartial in my judgment , Emma but yet , I think had you not been in the case I should still have distrusted him . 
Playing a most dangerous game . 
Too much indebted to the event for his acquittal . 
No judge of his own manners by you . 
Always deceived in fact by his own wishes , and regardless of little besides his own convenience . 
Fancying you to have fathomed his secret . 
Natural enough ! his own mind full of intrigue , that he should suspect it in others . 
You had better go on , said she . 
After this , he made some progress without any pause . 
Frank Churchill's confession of having behaved shamefully was the first thing to call for more than a word in passing . 
I perfectly agree with you , sir , was then his remark . 
You did behave very shamefully . 
You never wrote a truer line . 
She must have had much more to contend with , in carrying on the correspondence , than he could . 
He should have respected even unreasonable scruples , had there been such but hers were all reasonable . 
Emma knew that he was now getting to the Box Hill party , and grew uncomfortable . 
Her own behaviour had been so very improper ! She was deeply ashamed , and a little afraid of his next look . 
There is no saying much for the delicacy of our good friends , the Eltons , was his next observation . 
What ! actually resolve to break with him entirely ! She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each she dissolved it . 
What a view this gives of her sense of his behaviour ! Well , he must be a most extraordinary Nay , nay , read on . 
You will find how very much he suffers . 
I hope he does , replied Mr. Knightley coolly , and resuming the letter . 
I shall soon have done . 
What a letter the man writes ! I wish you would read it with a kinder spirit towards him . 
Well , there is feeling here . 
He does seem to have suffered in finding her ill . 
Certainly , I can have no doubt of his being fond of her . 
Dearer , much dearer than ever . 
I hope he may long continue to feel all the value of such a reconciliation . 
He is a very liberal thanker , with his thousands and tens of thousands . 
Come , he knows himself there . 
Miss Woodhouse calls me the child of good fortune . 
Those were Miss Woodhouse's words , were they ? And a fine ending and there is the letter . 
I hope it does him some service with you . 
Yes , certainly it does . 
And now , let me talk to you of something else . 
I have another person's interest at present so much at heart , that I cannot think any longer about Frank Churchill . 
Ever since I left you this morning , Emma , my mind has been hard at work on one subject . 
Emma's answer was ready at the first word . 
While her dear father lived , any change of condition must be impossible for her . 
She could never quit him . 
Part only of this answer , however , was admitted . 
The impossibility of her quitting her father , Mr. Knightley felt as strongly as herself but the inadmissibility of any other change , he could not agree to . 
Mr. Woodhouse taken from Hartfield ! No , he felt that it ought not to be attempted . 
Of their all removing to Donwell , Emma had already had her own passing thoughts . 
Like him , she had tried the scheme and rejected it but such an alternative as this had not occurred to her . 
She was sensible of all the affection it evinced . 
He had given it , he could assure her , very long and calm consideration he had been walking away from William Larkins the whole morning , to have his thoughts to himself . 
Ah ! there is one difficulty unprovided for , cried Emma . 
I am sure William Larkins will not like it . 
You must get his consent before you ask mine . 
She promised , however , to think of it and pretty nearly promised , moreover , to think of it , with the intention of finding it a very good scheme . 
This proposal of his , this plan of marrying and continuing at Hartfield the more she contemplated it , the more pleasing it became . 
His evils seemed to lessen , her own advantages to increase , their mutual good to outweigh every drawback . 
The delightful family party which Emma was securing for herself , poor Harriet must , in mere charitable caution , be kept at a distance from . 
She would be a loser in every way . 
Emma could not deplore her future absence as any deduction from her own enjoyment . 
In time , of course , Mr. Knightley would be forgotten , that is , supplanted but this could not be expected to happen very early . 
Mr. Knightley himself would be doing nothing to assist the cure not like Mr. Elton . 
CHAPTER XVI It was a very great relief to Emma to find Harriet as desirous as herself to avoid a meeting . 
Their intercourse was painful enough by letter . 
It might be only her own consciousness but it seemed as if an angel only could have been quite without resentment under such a stroke . 
She had no difficulty in procuring Isabella's invitation and she was fortunate in having a sufficient reason for asking it , without resorting to invention . 
There was a tooth amiss . 
Harriet really wished , and had wished some time , to consult a dentist . 
When it was thus settled on her sister's side , Emma proposed it to her friend , and found her very persuadable . 
Harriet was to go she was invited for at least a fortnight she was to be conveyed in Mr. Woodhouse's carriage . 
It was all arranged , it was all completed , and Harriet was safe in Brunswick Square . 
She would not allow any other anxiety to succeed directly to the place in her mind which Harriet had occupied . 
She had resolved to defer the disclosure till Mrs. Weston were safe and well . 
No additional agitation should be thrown at this period among those she loved and the evil should not act on herself by anticipation before the appointed time . 
A fortnight , at least , of leisure and peace of mind , to crown every warmer , but more agitating , delight , should be hers . 
She soon resolved , equally as a duty and a pleasure , to employ half an hour of this holiday of spirits in calling on Miss Fairfax . 
She ought to go and she was longing to see her the resemblance of their present situations increasing every other motive of goodwill . 
It would be a secret satisfaction but the consciousness of a similarity of prospect would certainly add to the interest with which she should attend to any thing Jane might communicate . 
The fear of being still unwelcome , determined her , though assured of their being at home , to wait in the passage , and send up her name . 
She heard Patty announcing it but no such bustle succeeded as poor Miss Bates had before made so happily intelligible . 
Emma had never seen her look so well , so lovely , so engaging . 
There was consciousness , animation , and warmth there was every thing which her countenance or manner could ever have wanted . 
Mrs. Bates and Mrs. Elton were together . 
Miss Bates was out , which accounted for the previous tranquillity . 
You and I shall not want opportunities . 
And , in fact , you have heard all the essential already . 
I only wanted to prove to you that Mrs. S. admits our apology , and is not offended . 
You see how delightfully she writes . 
Oh ! she is a sweet creature ! You would have doated on her , had you gone . 
But not a word more . 
Let us be discreet quite on our good behaviour . 
Hush ! You remember those lines I forget the poem at this moment For when a lady's in the case , You know all other things give place . 
Now I say , my dear , in our case , for lady , read mum ! a word to the wise . 
And again , on Emma's merely turning her head to look at Mrs. Bates's knitting , she added , in a half whisper , I mentioned no names , you will observe . 
Oh ! no cautious as a minister of state . 
I managed it extremely well . 
It was a palpable display , repeated on every possible occasion . 
Oh ! no Perry shall have all the credit . 
I have scarce had the pleasure of seeing you , Miss Woodhouse , she shortly afterwards began , since the party to Box Hill . 
But yet I think there was something wanting . 
Things did not seem that is , there seemed a little cloud upon the spirits of some . 
So it appeared to me at least , but I might be mistaken . 
However , I think it answered so far as to tempt one to go again . 
Thank you , dear Miss Woodhouse , you are all kindness . 
It is impossible to say Yes , indeed , I quite understand dearest Jane's prospects that is , I do not mean . 
But she is charmingly recovered . 
How is Mr. Woodhouse ? I am so glad . 
Quite out of my power . 
Such a happy little circle as you find us here . 
He promised to join me here , and pay his respects to you . 
Upon my word it is , Miss Bates . 
He really is engaged from morning to night . 
There is no end of people's coming to him , on some pretence or other . 
The magistrates , and overseers , and churchwardens , are always wanting his opinion . 
They seem not able to do any thing without him . 
Bad enough as it is , for I absolutely neglect them both to an unpardonable degree . 
I believe I have not played a bar this fortnight . 
However , he is coming , I assure you yes , indeed , on purpose to wait on you all . 
And putting up her hand to screen her words from Emma A congratulatory visit , you know . 
Oh ! yes , quite indispensable . 
Mr. E. is Knightley's right hand . 
Emma would not have smiled for the world , and only said , Is Mr. Elton gone on foot to Donwell ? He will have a hot walk . 
Oh ! no , it is a meeting at the Crown , a regular meeting . 
Weston and Cole will be there too but one is apt to speak only of those who lead . 
I fancy Mr. E. and Knightley have every thing their own way . 
Have not you mistaken the day ? said Emma . 
I am almost certain that the meeting at the Crown is not till to morrow . 
Mr. Knightley was at Hartfield yesterday , and spoke of it as for Saturday . 
Oh ! no , the meeting is certainly to day , was the abrupt answer , which denoted the impossibility of any blunder on Mrs. Elton's side . 
I do believe , she continued , this is the most troublesome parish that ever was . 
We never heard of such things at Maple Grove . 
Your parish there was small , said Jane . 
Upon my word , my dear , I do not know , for I never heard the subject talked of . 
Ah ! you clever creature , that's very true . 
What a thinking brain you have ! I say , Jane , what a perfect character you and I should make , if we could be shaken together . 
My liveliness and your solidity would produce perfection . 
Not that I presume to insinuate , however , that some people may not think you perfection already . 
But hush ! not a word , if you please . 
It seemed an unnecessary caution Jane was wanting to give her words , not to Mrs. Elton , but to Miss Woodhouse , as the latter plainly saw . 
The wish of distinguishing her , as far as civility permitted , was very evident , though it could not often proceed beyond a look . 
Mr. Elton made his appearance . 
His lady greeted him with some of her sparkling vivacity . 
You knew I should not stir till my lord and master appeared . 
His civilities to the other ladies must be paid but his subsequent object was to lament over himself for the heat he was suffering , and the walk he had had for nothing . 
When I got to Donwell , said he , Knightley could not be found . 
Very odd ! very unaccountable ! after the note I sent him this morning , and the message he returned , that he should certainly be at home till one . 
Donwell ! cried his wife . 
My dear Mr. E. , you have not been to Donwell ! You mean the Crown you come from the meeting at the Crown . 
No , no , that's to morrow and I particularly wanted to see Knightley to day on that very account . 
which made it so much the worse . 
And then not to find him at home ! I assure you I am not at all pleased . 
And no apology left , no message for me . 
The housekeeper declared she knew nothing of my being expected . 
Very extraordinary ! And nobody knew at all which way he was gone . 
Perhaps to Hartfield , perhaps to the Abbey Mill , perhaps into his woods . 
Not even Knightley could be so very eccentric and his servants forgot it . 
Depend upon it , that was the case and very likely to happen with the Donwell servants , who are all , I have often observed , extremely awkward and remiss . 
I am sure I would not have such a creature as his Harry stand at our sideboard for any consideration . 
And as for Mrs. Hodges , Wright holds her very cheap indeed . 
She promised Wright a receipt , and never sent it . 
William seemed rather out of humour . 
He did not know what was come to his master lately , he said , but he could hardly ever get the speech of him . 
Emma felt that she could not do better than go home directly . 
In all probability she was at this very time waited for there and Mr. Knightley might be preserved from sinking deeper in aggression towards Mr. Elton , if not towards William Larkins . 
Had you not been surrounded by other friends , I might have been tempted to introduce a subject , to ask questions , to speak more openly than might have been strictly correct . 
I feel that I should certainly have been impertinent . 
The danger would have been of my wearying you . 
You could not have gratified me more than by expressing an interest . 
I long to make apologies , excuses , to urge something for myself . 
I feel it so very due . 
But , unfortunately in short , if your compassion does not stand my friend Oh ! you are too scrupulous , indeed you are , cried Emma warmly , and taking her hand . 
So cold and artificial ! I had always a part to act . 
It was a life of deceit ! I know that I must have disgusted you . 
I feel that all the apologies should be on my side . 
Let us forgive each other at once . 
We must do whatever is to be done quickest , and I think our feelings will lose no time there . 
I hope you have pleasant accounts from Windsor ? Very . 
And the next news , I suppose , will be , that we are to lose you just as I begin to know you . 
Oh ! as to all that , of course nothing can be thought of yet . 
I am here till claimed by Colonel and Mrs. Campbell . 
Nothing can be actually settled yet , perhaps , replied Emma , smiling but , excuse me , it must be thought of . 
The smile was returned as Jane answered , You are very right it has been thought of . 
, that so far as our living with Mr. Churchill at Enscombe , it is settled . 
There must be three months , at least , of deep mourning but when they are over , I imagine there will be nothing more to wait for . 
Thank you , thank you . 
This is just what I wanted to be assured of . 
Oh ! if you knew how much I love every thing that is decided and open ! Good bye , good bye . 
She had been decided in wishing for a Miss Weston . 
That is , replied Mr. Knightley , she will indulge her even more than she did you , and believe that she does not indulge her at all . 
It will be the only difference . 
Poor child ! cried Emma at that rate , what will become of her ? Nothing very bad . 
She will be disagreeable in infancy , and correct herself as she grows older . 
I am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children , my dearest Emma . 
I doubt whether my own sense would have corrected me without it . 
Do you ? I have no doubt . 
Nature gave you understanding Miss Taylor gave you principles . 
You must have done well . 
My interference was quite as likely to do harm as good . 
I do not believe I did you any good . 
The good was all to myself , by making you an object of the tenderest affection to me . 
I am sure you were of use to me , cried Emma . 
I was very often influenced rightly by you oftener than I would own at the time . 
I am very sure you did me good . 
In such cases my interference was giving you two bad feelings instead of one . 
What an amiable creature I was ! No wonder you should hold my speeches in such affectionate remembrance . 
You always called me , Mr. Knightley and , from habit , it has not so very formal a sound . 
And yet it is formal . 
I want you to call me something else , but I do not know what . 
I remember once calling you George , in one of my amiable fits , about ten years ago . 
I did it because I thought it would offend you but , as you made no objection , I never did it again . 
And cannot you call me George' now ? Impossible ! I never can call you any thing but Mr. Knightley . 
I do not say when , but perhaps you may guess where in the building in which N. takes M. for better , for worse . 
She could not enter on it . 
Harriet was very seldom mentioned between them . 
He might observe that it was so . 
The pain of being obliged to practise concealment towards him , was very little inferior to the pain of having made Harriet unhappy . 
Isabella , to be sure , was no very quick observer yet if Harriet had not been equal to playing with the children , it would not have escaped her . 
Emma's comforts and hopes were most agreeably carried on , by Harriet's being to stay longer her fortnight was likely to be a month at least . 
Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley were to come down in August , and she was invited to remain till they could bring her back . 
John does not even mention your friend , said Mr. Knightley . 
Here is his answer , if you like to see it . 
It was the answer to the communication of his intended marriage . 
But I am not afraid of your seeing what he writes . 
He writes like a sensible man , replied Emma , when she had read the letter . 
Had he said any thing to bear a different construction , I should not have believed him . 
My Emma , he means no such thing . 
Depend upon it , he will be much farther from doing you justice . 
He will think all the happiness , all the advantage , on your side of the question all the merit on mine . 
I wish I may not sink into poor Emma' with him at once . 
His tender compassion towards oppressed worth can go no farther . 
If I understand your brother , he only means so far as your having some thoughts of marrying . 
He had no idea of me . 
He seems perfectly unprepared for that . 
Yes , yes but I am amused that he should have seen so far into my feelings . 
But it was so , I suppose . 
I dare say there was a difference when I was staying with them the other day . 
I believe I did not play with the children quite so much as usual . 
I remember one evening the poor boys saying , Uncle seems always tired now . 
The time was coming when the news must spread farther , and other persons' reception of it tried . 
She was forced to speak , and to speak cheerfully too . 
She must not make it a more decided subject of misery to him , by a melancholy tone herself . 
She must not appear to think it a misfortune . 
Poor man ! it was at first a considerable shock to him , and he tried earnestly to dissuade her from it . 
But it would not do . 
Did he not love Mr. Knightley very much ? He would not deny that he did , she was sure . 
That was all very true . 
Mr. Knightley could not be there too often he should be glad to see him every day but they did see him every day as it was . 
Mrs. Weston was acting no part , feigning no feelings in all that she said to him in favour of the event . 
But here there was nothing to be shifted off in a wild speculation on the future . 
It was all right , all open , all equal . 
No sacrifice on any side worth the name . 
It was a union of the highest promise of felicity in itself , and without one real , rational difficulty to oppose or delay it . 
Mrs. Weston , with her baby on her knee , indulging in such reflections as these , was one of the happiest women in the world . 
If any thing could increase her delight , it was perceiving that the baby would soon have outgrown its first set of caps . 
The news was universally a surprize wherever it spread and Mr. Weston had his five minutes share of it but five minutes were enough to familiarise the idea to his quickness of mind . 
It is to be a secret , I conclude , said he . 
These matters are always a secret , till it is found out that every body knows them . 
Only let me be told when I may speak out . 
I wonder whether Jane has any suspicion . 
He went to Highbury the next morning , and satisfied himself on that point . 
He told her the news . 
In general , it was a very well approved match . 
Some might think him , and others might think her , the most in luck . 
There , the surprize was not softened by any satisfaction . 
Poor Knightley ! poor fellow ! sad business for him . 
She was extremely concerned for , though very eccentric , he had a thousand good qualities . 
How could he be so taken in ? Did not think him at all in love not in the least . 
Poor Knightley ! There would be an end of all pleasant intercourse with him . 
How happy he had been to come and dine with them whenever they asked him ! But that would be all over now . 
Poor fellow ! No more exploring parties to Donwell made for her . 
Oh ! no there would be a Mrs. Knightley to throw cold water on every thing . 
Extremely disagreeable ! But she was not at all sorry that she had abused the housekeeper the other day . 
Shocking plan , living together . 
She knew a family near Maple Grove who had tried it , and been obliged to separate before the end of the first quarter . 
CHAPTER XVIII Time passed on . 
A few more to morrows , and the party from London would be arriving . 
After the first chat of pleasure he was silent and then , in a graver tone , began with , I have something to tell you , Emma some news . 
Good or bad ? said she , quickly , looking up in his face . 
I do not know which it ought to be called . 
Oh ! good I am sure . 
I see it in your countenance . 
You are trying not to smile . 
I am afraid , said he , composing his features , I am very much afraid , my dear Emma , that you will not smile when you hear it . 
Indeed ! but why so ? I can hardly imagine that any thing which pleases or amuses you , should not please and amuse me too . 
There is one subject , he replied , I hope but one , on which we do not think alike . 
He paused a moment , again smiling , with his eyes fixed on her face . 
Does nothing occur to you ? Do not you recollect ? Harriet Smith . 
Her cheeks flushed at the name , and she felt afraid of something , though she knew not what . 
Have you heard from her yourself this morning ? cried he . 
You have , I believe , and know the whole . 
No , I have not I know nothing pray tell me . 
You are prepared for the worst , I see and very bad it is . 
Harriet Smith marries Robert Martin . 
Emma gave a start , which did not seem like being prepared and her eyes , in eager gaze , said , No , this is impossible ! but her lips were closed . 
It is so , indeed , continued Mr. Knightley I have it from Robert Martin himself . 
He left me not half an hour ago . 
She was still looking at him with the most speaking amazement . 
You like it , my Emma , as little as I feared . 
I wish our opinions were the same . 
But in time they will . 
Time , you may be sure , will make one or the other of us think differently and , in the meanwhile , we need not talk much on the subject . 
You mistake me , you quite mistake me , she replied , exerting herself . 
It is not that such a circumstance would now make me unhappy , but I cannot believe it . 
It seems an impossibility ! You cannot mean to say , that Harriet Smith has accepted Robert Martin . 
You cannot mean that he has even proposed to her again yet . 
You only mean , that he intends it . 
I mean that he has done it , answered Mr. Knightley , with smiling but determined decision , and been accepted . 
Good God ! she cried . 
How , where , when ? Let me know it all . 
I never was more surprized but it does not make me unhappy , I assure you . 
How how has it been possible ? It is a very simple story . 
He went to town on business three days ago , and I got him to take charge of some papers which I was wanting to send to John . 
He delivered these papers to John , at his chambers , and was asked by him to join their party the same evening to Astley's . 
They were going to take the two eldest boys to Astley's . 
The party was to be our brother and sister , Henry , John and Miss Smith . 
My friend Robert could not resist . 
he found an opportunity of speaking to Harriet and certainly did not speak in vain . 
She made him , by her acceptance , as happy even as he is deserving . 
He came down by yesterday's coach , and was with me this morning immediately after breakfast , to report his proceedings , first on my affairs , and then on his own . 
This is all that I can relate of the how , where , and when . 
Your friend Harriet will make a much longer history when you see her . 
She will give you all the minute particulars , which only woman's language can make interesting . 
In our communications we deal only in the great . 
Emma dared not attempt any immediate reply . 
To speak , she was sure would be to betray a most unreasonable degree of happiness . 
She must wait a moment , or he would think her mad . 
His situation is an evil but you must consider it as what satisfies your friend and I will answer for your thinking better and better of him as you know him more . 
His good sense and good principles would delight you . 
As far as the man is concerned , you could not wish your friend in better hands . 
His rank in society I would alter if I could , which is saying a great deal I assure you , Emma . 
You laugh at me about William Larkins but I could quite as ill spare Robert Martin . 
I think Harriet is doing extremely well . 
Her connexions may be worse than his . 
In respectability of character , there can be no doubt that they are . 
I have been silent from surprize merely , excessive surprize . 
Emma could not help laughing as she answered , Upon my word , I believe you know her quite as well as I do . 
But , Mr. Knightley , are you perfectly sure that she has absolutely and downright accepted him . 
It could not be otherwise . 
Do you dare say this ? cried Mr. Knightley . 
He asked my opinion as to what he was now to do . 
He knew of no one but Mrs. Goddard to whom he could apply for information of her relations or friends . 
Could I mention any thing more fit to be done , than to go to Mrs. Goddard ? I assured him that I could not . 
Then , he said , he would endeavour to see her in the course of this day . 
I am perfectly satisfied , replied Emma , with the brightest smiles , and most sincerely wish them happy . 
You are materially changed since we talked on this subject before . 
I hope so for at that time I was a fool . 
And I am changed also for I am now very willing to grant you all Harriet's good qualities . 
to get acquainted with her . 
I have often talked to her a good deal . 
You must have seen that I did . 
Much of this , I have no doubt , she may thank you for . 
Me ! cried Emma , shaking her head . 
Ah ! poor Harriet ! She checked herself , however , and submitted quietly to a little more praise than she deserved . 
Their conversation was soon afterwards closed by the entrance of her father . 
She wanted to be alone . 
Her mind was in a state of flutter and wonder , which made it impossible for her to be collected . 
She was in dancing , singing , exclaiming spirits and till she had moved about , and talked to herself , and laughed and reflected , she could be fit for nothing rational . 
The joy , the gratitude , the exquisite delight of her sensations may be imagined . 
The sole grievance and alloy thus removed in the prospect of Harriet's welfare , she was really in danger of becoming too happy for security . 
What had she to wish for ? Nothing , but to grow more worthy of him , whose intentions and judgment had been ever so superior to her own . 
Nothing , but that the lessons of her past folly might teach her humility and circumspection in future . 
Serious she was , very serious in her thankfulness , and in her resolutions and yet there was no preventing a laugh , sometimes in the very midst of them . 
It would be a great pleasure to know Robert Martin . 
High in the rank of her most serious and heartfelt felicities , was the reflection that all necessity of concealment from Mr. Knightley would soon be over . 
The disguise , equivocation , mystery , so hateful to her to practise , might soon be over . 
She could now look forward to giving him that full and perfect confidence which her disposition was most ready to welcome as a duty . 
It is Frank and Miss Fairfax , said Mrs. Weston . 
I was just going to tell you of our agreeable surprize in seeing him arrive this morning . 
He stays till to morrow , and Miss Fairfax has been persuaded to spend the day with us . 
They are coming in , I hope . 
In half a minute they were in the room . 
Emma was extremely glad to see him but there was a degree of confusion a number of embarrassing recollections on each side . 
I hope time has not made you less willing to pardon . 
I hope you do not retract what you then said . 
No , indeed , cried Emma , most happy to begin , not in the least . 
I am particularly glad to see and shake hands with you and to give you joy in person . 
He thanked her with all his heart , and continued some time to speak with serious feeling of his gratitude and happiness . 
Is not she looking well ? said he , turning his eyes towards Jane . 
Better than she ever used to do ? You see how my father and Mrs. Weston doat upon her . 
But his spirits were soon rising again , and with laughing eyes , after mentioning the expected return of the Campbells , he named the name of Dixon . 
Emma blushed , and forbade its being pronounced in her hearing . 
I can never think of it , she cried , without extreme shame . 
The shame , he answered , is all mine , or ought to be . 
But is it possible that you had no suspicion ? I mean of late . 
Early , I know , you had none . 
I never had the smallest , I assure you . 
I was once very near and I wish I had it would have been better . 
But though I was always doing wrong things , they were very bad wrong things , and such as did me no service . 
It would have been a much better transgression had I broken the bond of secrecy and told you every thing . 
It is not now worth a regret , said Emma . 
I have some hope , resumed he , of my uncle's being persuaded to pay a visit at Randalls he wants to be introduced to her . 
When the Campbells are returned , we shall meet them in London , and continue there , I trust , till we may carry her northward . 
But now , I am at such a distance from her is not it hard , Miss Woodhouse ? Till this morning , we have not once met since the day of reconciliation . 
I know you saw my letter , and think you may remember my wish in your favour . 
Let me return your congratulations . 
I assure you that I have heard the news with the warmest interest and satisfaction . 
He is a man whom I cannot presume to praise . 
One cannot call her fair . 
It is a most uncommon complexion , with her dark eye lashes and hair a most distinguishing complexion ! So peculiarly the lady in it . 
Just colour enough for beauty . 
I am sure you had . 
I am sure it was a consolation to you . 
I am sure it was a source of high entertainment to you , to feel that you were taking us all in . 
Perhaps I am the readier to suspect , because , to tell you the truth , I think it might have been some amusement to myself in the same situation . 
I think there is a little likeness between us . 
True , true , he answered , warmly . 
No , not true on your side . 
You can have no superior , but most true on mine . 
She is a complete angel . 
Is not she an angel in every gesture ? Observe the turn of her throat . 
Observe her eyes , as she is looking up at my father . 
that my uncle means to give her all my aunt's jewels . 
They are to be new set . 
I am resolved to have some in an ornament for the head . 
I should certainly have called at Hartfield , had you failed to come . 
She believed she had been foolish , but it had alarmed her , and she had been within half a minute of sending for Mr. Perry . 
Perhaps she ought to be ashamed , but Mr. Weston had been almost as uneasy as herself . 
In ten minutes , however , the child had been perfectly well again . 
She should always send for Perry , if the child appeared in the slightest degree disordered , were it only for a moment . 
She could not be too soon alarmed , nor send for Perry too often . 
Frank Churchill caught the name . 
Perry ! said he to Emma , and trying , as he spoke , to catch Miss Fairfax's eye . 
Such an extraordinary dream of mine ! he cried . 
I can never think of it without laughing . 
She hears us , she hears us , Miss Woodhouse . 
I see it in her cheek , her smile , her vain attempt to frown . 
The happiness of this most happy day , received its completion , in the animated contemplation of his worth which this comparison produced . 
Harriet was most happy to give every particular of the evening at Astley's , and the dinner the next day she could dwell on it all with the utmost delight . 
Beyond this , it must ever be unintelligible to Emma . 
The event , however , was most joyful and every day was giving her fresh reason for thinking so . 
She proved to be the daughter of a tradesman , rich enough to afford her the comfortable maintenance which had ever been hers , and decent enough to have always wished for concealment . 
She would be placed in the midst of those who loved her , and who had better sense than herself retired enough for safety , and occupied enough for cheerfulness . 
She would be never led into temptation , nor left for it to find her out . 
Harriet , necessarily drawn away by her engagements with the Martins , was less and less at Hartfield which was not to be regretted . 
Perhaps , indeed , at that time she scarcely saw Mr. Elton , but as the clergyman whose blessing at the altar might next fall on herself . 
Robert Martin and Harriet Smith , the latest couple engaged of the three , were the first to be married . 
Jane Fairfax had already quitted Highbury , and was restored to the comforts of her beloved home with the Campbells . 
The Mr. Churchills were also in town and they were only waiting for November . 
The intermediate month was the one fixed on , as far as they dared , by Emma and Mr. Knightley . 
John and Isabella , and every other friend , were agreed in approving it . 
But Mr. Woodhouse how was Mr. Woodhouse to be induced to consent ? he , who had never yet alluded to their marriage but as a distant event . 
When first sounded on the subject , he was so miserable , that they were almost hopeless . 
A second allusion , indeed , gave less pain . 
He began to think it was to be , and that he could not prevent it a very promising step of the mind on its way to resignation . 
Still , however , he was not happy . 
Nay , he appeared so much otherwise , that his daughter's courage failed . 
Mrs. Weston's poultry house was robbed one night of all her turkeys evidently by the ingenuity of man . 
Other poultry yards in the neighbourhood also suffered . 
Pilfering was housebreaking to Mr. Woodhouse's fears . 
He was very uneasy and but for the sense of his son in law's protection , would have been under wretched alarm every night of his life . 
The strength , resolution , and presence of mind of the Mr. Knightleys , commanded his fullest dependence . 
While either of them protected him and his , Hartfield was safe . 
But Mr. John Knightley must be in London again by the end of the first week in November . 
Very little white satin , very few lace veils a most pitiful business ! Selina would stare when she heard of it . 
