The Royal Dragon of Spor . 
Prince Marvel Wins His Fight . 
The Cunning of King Terribus . 
The Hidden Kingdom of Twi . 
The Ki and The Ki Ki . 
The High Ki of Twi . 
The Rebellion of The High Ki . 
The Separation of The High Ki . 
The Rescue of The High Ki . 
The Reunion of The High Ki . 
The Wonderful Book of Magic . 
The Red Rogue of Dawna . 
The End of the Year . 
Once on a Time I am going to tell a story , one of those tales of astonishing adventures that happened years and years and years ago . 
Perhaps you wonder why it is that so many stories are told of once on a time , and so few of these days in which we live but that is easily explained . 
Men and women lived simply and quietly . 
Having no books to read they told their adventures to one another and to their little ones and the stories were handed down from generation to generation and reverently believed . 
And a fairy tale was a thing to be wondered at and spoken of in awed whispers for no one thought of doubting its truth . 
The Enchanted Isle Once there was an enchanted island in the middle of the sea . 
It was called the Isle of Yew . 
And in it were five important kingdoms ruled by men , and many woodland dells and forest glades and pleasant meadows and grim mountains inhabited by fairies . 
The island was round like a mince pie . 
Spor was ruled by King Terribus , whom no one but his own subjects had ever seen and not many of them . 
For no one was allowed to enter the Kingdom of Spor , and its king never left his palace . 
So , as a rule , every one fled before them , and the people were thankful that the fierce warriors of Spor seldom came to rob them oftener than once a year . 
And the children were not allowed to stray far from home for fear some roving band of robbers might steal them and make their parents pay large sums for their safe return . 
Yet for all this the people of the Enchanted Isle of Yew were happy and prosperous . 
No grass was greener , no forests more cool and delightful , no skies more sunny , no sea more blue and rippling than theirs . 
And the nations of the world envied them , but dared not attempt to conquer an island abounding in enchantments . 
Up at the north lay Heg , the home of the great barons who feared not even the men of Spor and in the Kingdom of Heg our story opens . 
Upon a beautiful plain stood the castle of the great Baron Merd renowned alike in war and peace , and second in importance only to the King of Heg . 
It was a castle of vast extent , built with thick walls and protected by strong gates . 
One fair summer day the custodian of the castle gates opened a wicket and let down a draw bridge , when out trooped three pretty girls with baskets dangling on their arms . 
One of the maids walked in front of her companions , as became the only daughter of the mighty Baron Merd . 
She was named Seseley , and had yellow hair and red cheeks and big , blue eyes . 
Berna was the daughter of the chief archer , and Helda the niece of the captain of the guard , and they were appointed play fellows and comrades of the fair Seseley . 
Up the hill to the forest's edge ran the three , and then without hesitation plunged into the shade of the ancient trees . 
There was no sunlight now , but the air was cool and fragrant of nuts and mosses , and the children skipped along the paths joyously and without fear . 
How pretty ! cried Seseley , gaily . 
Let us eat our luncheon in this lovely banquet hall ! So Berna and Helda spread a cloth and brought from their baskets some golden platters and a store of food . 
Again the silvery laughter rang through the glade . 
And as for being odd in appearance , let me ask how you could reasonably expect a fairy to appear as mortal maidens do ? A fairy ! exclaimed Seseley . 
Then for a moment there was silence , while the three girls sat very still and stared at their immortal companion with evident curiosity . 
Finally Seseley asked Why do you regret being a fairy ? I have always thought them the happiest creatures in the world . 
Perhaps we ought to be happy , answered the fairy , gravely , for we have wonderful powers and do much to assist you helpless mortals . 
And I suppose some of us really are happy . 
But , for my part , I am so utterly tired of a fairy life that I would do anything to change it . 
That is strange , declared Berna . 
You seem very young to be already discontented with your lot . 
Nonsense ! retorted the fairy , sharply . 
These trees are hundreds of years old , yet I remember when they were mere twigs . 
And I remember when mortals first came to live upon this island , yes and when this island was first created and rose from the sea after a great earthquake . 
I remember for many , many centuries , my dears . 
I have grown tired of remembering and of being a fairy continually , without any change to brighten my life . 
To be sure ! said Seseley , with sympathy . 
I never thought of fairy life in that way before . 
It must get to be quite tiresome . 
And think of the centuries I must yet live ! exclaimed the fairy in a dismal voice . 
Isn't it an awful thing to look forward to ? It is , indeed , agreed Seseley . 
I'd be glad to exchange lives with you , said Helda , looking at the fairy with intense admiration . 
But you can't do that , answered the little creature quickly . 
Mortals can't become fairies , you know although I believe there was once a mortal who was made immortal . 
But fairies can become anything they desire ! cried Berna . 
Oh , no , they can't . 
You are mistaken if you believe that , was the reply . 
I could change YOU into a fly , or a crocodile , or a bobolink , if I wanted to but fairies can't change themselves into anything else . 
How strange ! murmured Seseley , much impressed . 
But YOU can , cried the fairy , jumping up and coming toward them . 
You are mortals , and , by the laws that govern us , a mortal can change a fairy into anything she pleases . 
Oh ! said Seseley , filled with amazement at the idea . 
The fairy fell on her knees before the baron's daughter . 
Please please , dear Seseley , she pleaded , change me into a mortal ! . 
Prince Marvel It is easy to imagine the astonishment of the three girls at hearing this strange request . 
They gazed in a bewildered fashion upon the kneeling fairy , and were at first unable to answer one word . 
Then Seseley said sadly , for she grieved to disappoint the pretty creature We are but mortal children , and have no powers of enchantment at all . 
Ah , that is true , so far as concerns yourselves , replied the fairy , eagerly yet mortals may easily transform fairies into anything they wish . 
If that is so , why have we never heard of this power before ? asked Seseley . 
Because fairies , as a rule , are content with their lot , and do not wish to appear in any form but their own . 
And , knowing that evil or mischievous mortals can transform them at will , the fairies take great care to remain invisible , so they can not be interfered with . 
Have you ever , she asked , suddenly , seen a fairy before ? Never , replied Seseley . 
I must say , remarked Helda , boldly , that you are foolish to wish to become anything different from what you are . 
For you are very beautiful NOW , added Berna , admiringly . 
And as for being foolish , continued the fairy , I ought to be allowed to act foolishly if I want to . 
For centuries past I have not had a chance to do a single foolish thing . 
Poor dear ! said Helda , softly . 
Seseley had listened silently to this conversation . 
Now she inquired What do you wish to become ? A mortal ! answered the fairy , promptly . 
A girl , like ourselves ? questioned the baron's daughter . 
Perhaps , said the fairy , as if undecided . 
Then you would be likely to endure many privations , said Seseley , gently . 
For you would have neither father nor mother to befriend you , nor any house to live in . 
And if you hired your services to some baron , you would be obliged to wash dishes all day , or mend clothing , or herd cattle , said Berna . 
But I should travel all over the island , said the fairy , brightly , and that is what I long to do . 
I do not care to work . 
I fear a girl would not be allowed to travel alone , Seseley remarked , after some further thought . 
At least , she added , I have never heard of such a thing . 
No , said the fairy , rather bitterly , your men are the ones that roam abroad and have adventures of all kinds . 
Your women are poor , weak creatures , I remember . 
There was no denying this , so the three girls sat silent until Seseley asked Why do you wish to become a mortal ? To gain exciting experiences , answered the fairy . 
I'm tired of being a humdrum fairy year in and year out . 
If you want variety , you should become a boy , said Helda , with a laugh , The life of a boy is one round of excitement . 
Then make me a boy ! exclaimed the fairy eagerly . 
A boy ! they all cried in consternation . 
Better ! declared Helda , clapping her hands for then you can do as you please . 
But would it be right ? asked Seseley , with hesitation . 
Why not ? retorted the fairy . 
I can see nothing wrong in being a boy . 
Make me a tall , slender youth , with waving brown hair and dark eyes . 
Then I shall be as unlike my own self as possible , and the adventure will be all the more interesting . 
Yes I like the idea of being a boy very much indeed . 
But I don't know how to transform you some one will have to show me the way to do it , protested Seseley , who was getting worried over the task set her . 
Oh , that will be easy enough , returned the little immortal . 
Have you a wand ? No. Then I'll loan you mine , for I shall not need it . 
And you must wave it over my head three times and say 'By my mortal powers I transform you into a boy for the space of one year' . 
One year ! Isn't that too long ? It's a very short time to one who has lived thousands of years as a fairy . 
That is true , answered the baron's daughter . 
Now , I'll begin by doing a little transforming myself , said the fairy , getting upon her feet again , and you can watch and see how I do it . 
She brushed a bit of moss from her gauzy skirts and continued If I'm to become a boy I shall need a horse , you know . 
A handsome , prancing steed , very fleet of foot . 
A moment she stood motionless , as if listening . 
Then she uttered a low but shrill whistle . 
The three girls , filled with eager interest , watched her intently . 
Presently a trampling of footsteps was heard through the brushwood , and a beautiful deer burst from the forest and fearlessly ran to the fairy . 
Without hesitation she waved her wand above the deer's head and exclaimed By all my fairy powers I command you to become a war horse for the period of one year . 
Instantly the deer disappeared , and in its place was a handsome charger , milk white in color , with flowing mane and tail . 
Upon its back was a saddle sparkling with brilliant gems sewn upon fine dressed leather . 
The girls uttered cries of astonishment and delight , and the fairy said You see , these transformations are not at all difficult . 
I must now have a sword . 
She plucked a twig from a near by tree and cast it upon the ground at her feet . 
And now I must have shield and armor , said the fairy , gaily . 
This will make a shield , and she stripped a sheet of loose bark from a tree trunk , but for armor I must have something better . 
Will you give me your cloak ? This appeal was made to Seseley , and the baron's daughter drew her white velvet cloak from her shoulders and handed it to the fairy . 
I shall be your champion , you see , laughed the fairy , gleefully , and maybe I shall be able to repay you for the loss of your cloak . 
I do not mind the cloak , returned the child , who had been greatly interested in these strange transformations . 
But it seems impossible that a dainty little girl like you can ride this horse and carry these heavy arms . 
I'll not be a girl much longer , said the little creature . 
And the baron's daughter was suddenly inspired to be brave , not wishing to disappoint the venturous immortal . 
So she rose and took the magic wand in her hand , waving it three times above the head of the fairy . 
As she ceased speaking the fairy was gone , and a slender youth , dark eyed and laughing , was holding her hand in his and kissing it gratefully . 
I thank you , most lovely maiden , he said , in a pleasant voice , for giving me a place in the world of mortals . 
I shall ride at once in search of adventure , but my good sword is ever at your service . 
With this he gracefully arose and began to buckle on his magnificent armor and to fasten the sword to his belt . 
Do you still remember that a moment ago you were a fairy ? she inquired . 
Yes , indeed , said he , smiling and I am really a fairy now , being but changed in outward form . 
But no one must know this save yourselves , until the year has expired and I resume my true station . 
Will you promise to guard my secret ? Oh , yes ! they exclaimed , in chorus . 
For they were delighted , as any children might well be , at having so remarkable a secret to keep and talk over among themselves . 
True , said Seseley , thoughtfully . 
What were you called as a fairy ? That does not matter in the least , he answered , hastily . 
I must have an entirely new name . 
Suppose we call him the Silver Knight , suggested Berna , as she eyed his glistening armor . 
Oh , no ! that is no name at all ! declared Helda . 
We might better call him Baron Strongarm . 
I do not like that , either , said the Lady Seseley , for we do not know whether his arm is strong or not . 
But he has been transformed in a most astonishing and bewildering manner before our very eyes , and I think the name of Prince Marvel would suit him very well . 
Excellent ! cried the youth , picking up his richly graven shield . 
The name seems fitting in every way . 
And for a year I shall be known to all this island as Prince Marvel ! . 
But to the captain's disappointment the stranger showed no intention of entering the castle . 
On the contrary , he kissed the little Lady Seseley's hand respectfully , waved an adieu to the others , and then mounted his charger and galloped away over the plains . 
The drawbridge was let down to permit the three children to enter , and the great Baron Merd came himself to question his daughter . 
Who was the little knight ? he asked . 
His name is Prince Marvel , answered Seseley , demurely . 
Prince Marvel ? exclaimed the Baron . 
I have never heard of him . 
Does he come from the Kingdom of Dawna , or that of Auriel , or Plenta ? That I do not know , said Seseley , with truth . 
Where did you meet him ? continued the baron . 
In the forest , my father , and he kindly escorted us home . 
Hm ! muttered the baron , thoughtfully . 
Did he say what adventure brought him to our Kingdom of Heg ? No , father . 
But he mentioned being in search of adventure . 
Oh , he'll find enough to busy him in this wild island , where every man he meets would rather draw his sword than eat , returned the old warrior , smiling . 
But it is possible he is much older , she added , beginning to get confused . 
Well , well I am sorry he did not pay my castle a visit , declared the baron . 
He is very small and slight to be traveling this dangerous country alone , and I might have advised him as to his welfare . 
Prince Marvel was riding swiftly toward the brow of the hill , and shortly his great war horse mounted the ascent and disappeared on its farther slope . 
The youth's heart was merry and light , and he reflected joyously , as he rode along , that a whole year of freedom and fascinating adventure lay before him . 
For an hour the prince rode along , rejoicing in the free motion of his horse and breathing in the perfume laden air . 
Then he found he had crossed the valley and was approaching a series of hills . 
These were broken by huge rocks , the ground being cluttered with boulders of rough stone . 
Having traversed this narrow space some distance the wall opened suddenly upon a level plat of ground , where grass and trees grew . 
In the side of the rocky wall facing the entrance the traveler noticed a hollow , like the mouth of a cave , across which was placed an iron gate . 
I have no idea who this Wul Takim is , he said , for I know nothing at all of the ways of men outside the forest in which I have always dwelt . 
But thieves are bad people , I am quite sure , and since Wul Takim is the king of thieves he must be by far the worst man on this island . 
Also there were casks and bales of merchandise of every sort . 
The gate appeared to have no lock , so Prince Marvel opened it and walked in . 
What are you doing up there ? asked the prince . 
Nothing , said the boy . 
If I moved the least little bit this pile of casks would topple over , and I should be thrown to the ground . 
Well , returned the prince , what of it ? But just then he glanced at the ground and saw why the boy did not care to tumble down . 
For in the earth were planted many swords , with their sharp blades pointing upward , and to fall upon these meant serious wounds and perhaps death . 
Oh , ho ! cried Marvel I begin to understand . 
Yes as you will also be shortly , answered the boy . 
And then you will understand another thing that you were very reckless ever to enter this cave . 
Why ? inquired the prince , who really knew little of the world , and was interested in everything he saw and heard . 
Because it is the stronghold of the robber king , and when you opened that gate you caused a bell to ring far down on the hillside . 
So the robbers are now warned that an enemy is in their cave , and they will soon arrive to make you a prisoner , even as I am . 
Soon they were heard stumbling along at a rapid pace , crying to one another to make haste and catch the intruder . 
For he straightway resolved to steel his heart to such sights and to be every bit as stern and severe as a mortal knight would have been . 
The thieves are conquered , he cried . 
Jump down ! I won't , said the boy . 
Why not ? inquired the prince . 
I don't want you to catch me , said the boy . 
I want to be miserable . 
It's the first chance I've ever had , and I'm enjoying my misery very much . 
This speech so astonished Prince Marvel that for a moment he stood motionless . 
Then he retorted , angrily You're a fool ! If I wasn't so miserable up here , I'd come down and thrash you for that , said the boy , with a sigh . 
But Marvel caught him deftly in his arms , and so saved him from the sword points . 
There ! he said , standing the boy upon his feet now you are released from your misery . 
And I should be glad to punish you for your interference , declared the boy , gloomily eying his preserver , had you not saved my life by catching me . 
According to the code of honor of knighthood I can not harm one who has saved my life until I have returned the obligation . 
Therefore , for the present I shall pardon your insulting speeches and actions . 
But you have also saved my life , answered Prince Marvel for had you not warned me of the robbers' return they would surely have caught me . 
True , said the boy , brightening up therefore our score is now even . 
But take care not to affront me again , for hereafter I will show you no mercy ! Prince Marvel looked at the boy with wonder . 
He was about his own size , yet strong and well formed , and he would have been handsome except for the expression of discontent upon his face . 
Yet his manner and words were so absurd and unnatural that the prince was more amused than angered by his new acquaintance , and presently laughed in his face . 
If all the people in this island are like you , he said , I shall have lots of fun with them . 
And you are only a boy , after all . 
I'm bigger than you ! declared the other , glaring fiercely at the prince . 
How much bigger ? asked Marvel , his eyes twinkling . 
Oh , ever so much ! Then fetch along that coil of rope , and follow me , said Prince Marvel . 
Fetch the rope yourself ! retorted the boy , bluntly . 
Then he put his hands in his pockets and coolly walked out of the cave to look at the pile of senseless robbers . 
Prince Marvel made no reply , but taking the coil of rope on his shoulder he carried it to where the thieves lay and threw it down beside them . 
Then he cut lengths from the coil with his sword and bound the limbs of each robber securely . 
This task being accomplished and the robbers rendered helpless , Prince Marvel turned to the boy who stood watching him . 
Get a suit of armor from the cave , and a strong sword , and then return here , he said , in a stern voice . 
Why should I do that ? asked the boy , rather impudently . 
Because I am going to fight you for disobeying my orders and if you do not protect yourself I shall probably kill you . 
That sounds pleasant , said the boy . 
But if you should prove my superior in skill I beg you will not kill me at once , but let me die a lingering death . 
Why ? asked the prince . 
Because I shall suffer more , and that will be delightful . 
I am not anxious to kill you , nor to make you suffer , said Marvel , all that I ask is that you acknowledge me your master . 
I won't ! answered the boy . 
I acknowledge no master in all the world ! Then you must fight , declared the prince , gravely . 
If you win , I will promise to serve you faithfully and if I conquer you , then you must acknowledge me your master , and obey my commands . 
Agreed ! cried the boy , with sudden energy , and he rushed into the cave and soon returned clad in armor and bearing a sword and shield . 
On the shield was pictured a bolt of lightning . 
Lightning will soon strike those three girls whose champion you seem to be , he said tauntingly . 
The three girls defy your lightning ! returned the prince with a smile . 
I see you are brave enough . 
Brave ! Why should I not be ? answered the boy proudly . 
I am the Lord Nerle , the son of Neggar , the chief baron of Heg ! The other bowed low . 
I am pleased to know your station , he said . 
I am called Prince Marvel , and this is my first adventure . 
And likely to be your last , exclaimed the boy , sneeringly . 
For I am stronger than you , and I have fought many times with full grown men . 
Are you ready ? asked Prince Marvel , for answer . 
Then the swords clashed and sparks flew from the blades . 
But it was not for long . 
Suddenly Nerle's sword went flying through the air and shattered its blade against a wall of rock . 
He scowled at Prince Marvel a moment , who smiled back at him . 
Then the boy rushed into the cave and returned with another sword . 
I suppose I have , replied the boy , rubbing his ear tenderly . 
That blow stings most deliciously . 
But come , we must dispose of these thieves . 
What is the proper fate for such men ? They are always hanged , answered Nerle , getting upon his feet . 
Well , there are trees handy , remarked the prince , although his girlish heart insisted on making him shiver in spite of his resolve to be manly and stern . 
Let us get to work and hang them as soon as possible . 
And then we can proceed upon our journey . 
And what army assisted him ? inquired Wul Takim , curiously gazing upon the prince . 
He conquered you alone and single handed , said Nerle . 
I am going to hang you in a few minutes . 
Thanks ! Thank you very much ! answered the king , ceasing to weep . 
I have always expected to be hanged some day , and I am glad no one but you two boys will witness me when my feet begin kicking about . 
I shall not kick , declared another of the thieves , who had also regained his senses . 
I shall sing while I am being hanged . 
But you can not , my good Gunder , protested the king for the rope will cut off your breath , and no man can sing without breath . 
Then I shall whistle , said Gunder , composedly . 
The king cast at him a look of reproach , and turning to Prince Marvel he said It will be a great task to string up so many thieves . 
Permit me to assist you to hang the others , and then I will climb into a tree and hang myself from a strong branch , with as little bother as possible . 
Oh , I won't think of troubling you , exclaimed Marvel , with a laugh . 
Having conquered you alone , I feel it my duty to hang you without assistance save that of my esquire . 
It's no trouble , I assure you but suit your own convenience , said the thief , carelessly . 
Then he cast his eye toward the cave and asked What will you do with all our treasure ? Give it to the poor , said Prince Marvel , promptly . 
What poor ? Oh , the poorest people I can find . 
Will you permit me to advise you in this matter ? asked the king of thieves , politely . 
Yes , indeed for I am a stranger in this land , returned the prince . 
They can call no man friend , nor will any lift a hand to help them . 
They are ourselves , replied the king of thieves , with a sigh . 
Marvel looked at him in amazement , and then burst into joyous laughter . 
Yourselves ! he cried , greatly amused . 
Indeed , yes ! said Wul Takim , sadly . 
There are no poorer people in all the world , for we have ropes about our necks and are soon to be hanged . 
To morrow we shall not have even our flesh left , for the crows will pick our bones . 
That is true , remarked Marvel , thoughtfully . 
But , if I restore to you the treasure , how will it benefit you , since you are about to die ? Must you really hang us ? asked the thief . 
Yes I have decreed it , and you deserve your fate . 
Why ? Because you have wickedly taken from helpless people their property , and committed many other crimes besides . 
Honest men could not enjoy treasures they have stolen , said Prince Marvel . 
True but this treasure is now yours , having been won by you in fair battle . 
And if you present it to us it will no longer be stolen treasure , but a generous gift from a mighty prince , which we may enjoy with clear consciences . 
Yet there remains the fact that I have promised to hang you , suggested Prince Marvel , with a smile , for the king amused him greatly . 
Not at all ! Not at all ! cried Wul Takim . 
You promised to hang fifty nine thieves , and there is no doubt the fifty nine thieves deserved to be hung . 
Ask him , my master , what caused them all to reform so suddenly . 
Because we were about to die , and we thought it a good way to save our lives , replied the robber king . 
That's an honest answer , anyway , said Nerle . 
Perhaps , sir , they have really reformed . 
And if so , I will not have the death of fifty nine honest men on my conscience , declared the prince . 
Then he turned to Wul Takim and added I will release you and give you the treasure , as you request . 
But you owe me allegiance from this time forth , and if I ever hear of your becoming thieves again , I promise to return and hang every one of you . 
Never fear ! answered Wul Takim , joyfully . 
It is hard work to steal , and while we have so much treasure it is wholly unnecessary . 
I accept your service , answered the prince , graciously . 
And then he unbound the fifty nine honest men and took the ropes from their necks . 
As nightfall was fast approaching the new servants set to work to prepare a great feast in honor of their master . 
It was laid in the middle of the grassy clearing , that all might sit around and celebrate the joyous occasion . 
Do you think you can trust these men ? asked Nerle , suspiciously . 
Why not ? replied the prince . 
They have been exceedingly wicked , it is true but they are now intent upon being exceedingly good . 
Let us encourage them in this . 
If we mistrusted all who have ever done an evil act there would be fewer honest people in the world . 
And if it were as interesting to do a good act as an evil one there is no doubt every one would choose the good . 
The Troubles of Nerle That night Prince Marvel slept within the cave , surrounded by the fifty nine reformed thieves , and suffered no harm at their hands . 
It now read as follows WUL TAKIM KING OF HONEST MEN HIS PLEASURE HOUSE WALK IN That is much better , laughed the prince . 
I accomplished some good by my adventure , anyway ! Nerle did not reply . 
It is a sad story , returned Nerle , with a sigh but since you request me to tell it , the tale may serve to relieve the tedium of your journey . 
My father is a mighty baron , very wealthy and with a heart so kind that he has ever taken pleasure in thrusting on me whatever gift he could think of . 
I had not a single desire unsatisfied , for before I could wish for anything it was given me . 
My mother was much like my father . 
She and her women were always making jams , jellies , candies , cakes and the like for me to eat so I never knew the pleasure of hunger . 
My clothes were the gayest satins and velvets , richly made and sewn with gold and silver braid so it was impossible to wish for more in the way of apparel . 
This condition of affairs , as you may imagine , grew more and more tedious and exasperating the older I became . 
Try as I might , I could find nothing to complain of . 
I once saw the son of one of our servants receive a flogging and my heart grew light . 
I immediately begged my father to flog me , by way of variety and he , who could refuse me nothing , at once consented . 
For this reason there was less satisfaction in the operation than I had expected , although for the time being it was a distinct novelty . 
Now , no one could expect a high spirited boy to put up with such a life as mine . 
With nothing to desire and no chance of doing anything that would annoy my parents , my days were dreary indeed . 
He paused to wipe the tears from his eyes , and the prince murmured , sympathetically Poor boy ! Poor boy ! Ah , you may well say that ! continued Nerle . 
But one day a stranger came to my father's castle with tales of many troubles he had met with . 
He had been lost in a forest and nearly starved to death . 
He had been robbed and beaten and left wounded and sore by the wayside . 
He had begged from door to door and been refused food or assistance . 
In short , his story was so delightful that it made me envy him , and I yearned to suffer as he had done . 
When I could speak with him alone I said 'Pray tell me how I can manage to acquire the misfortunes you have undergone . 
Here I have everything that I desire , and it makes me very unhappy . 
The stranger laughed at me , at first and I found some pleasure in the humiliation I then felt . 
But it did not last long , for presently he grew sober and advised me to run away from home and seek adventure . 
'Once away from your father's castle , said he , 'troubles will fall upon you thick enough to satisfy even your longings . 
'That is what I am afraid of ! I answered . 
'I don't want to be satisfied , even with troubles . 
What I seek is unsatisfied longings . 
'Nevertheless , said he , 'I advise you to travel . 
Everything will probably go wrong with you , and then you will be happy . 
I acted upon the stranger's advice and ran away from home the next day . 
After journeying a long time I commenced to feel the pangs of hunger , and was just beginning to enjoy myself when a knight rode by and gave me a supply of food . 
At this rebuff I could not restrain my tears , but while I wept my horse stumbled and threw me over his head . 
To my great grief the pain left me , and I was soon well again . 
But , as a slight compensation for my disappointment , my horse had run away so I began my journey anew and on foot . 
That afternoon I stepped into a nest of wasps , but the thoughtless creatures flew away without stinging me . 
Then I met a fierce tiger , and my heart grew light and gay . 
'Surely this will cause me suffering ! I cried , and advanced swiftly upon the brute . 
But the cowardly tiger turned tail and ran to hide in the bushes , leaving me unhurt ! Of course , my many disappointments were some consolation but not much . 
That night I slept on the bare ground , and hoped I should catch a severe cold but no such joy was to be mine . 
Yet the next afternoon I experienced my first pleasure . 
The thieves caught me , stripped off all my fine clothes and jewels and beat me well . 
This was really delightful , and I was quite happy until you came and released me . 
I thought then that I might gain some pleasure by provoking you to anger and our fight was the result . 
That blow on the ear was exquisite , and by forcing me to become your servant you have made me , for the first time in my life , almost contented . 
For I hope in your company to experience a great many griefs and disappointments . 
As Nerle concluded his story Prince Marvel turned to him and grasped his hand . 
Accept my sympathy ! said he . 
I know exactly how you feel , for my own life during the past few centuries has not been much different . 
The past few centuries ! gasped Nerle . 
What do you mean ? At this the prince blushed , seeing he had nearly disclosed his secret . 
But he said , quickly Does it not seem centuries when one is unhappy ? It does , indeed ! responded Nerle , earnestly . 
But please tell me your story . 
Not now , said Prince Marvel , with a smile . 
It will please you to desire in vain to hear a tale I will not tell . 
Yet I promise that on the day we part company I shall inform you who I am . 
Now , as I have before said , the most curious and fearful of the island people dwelt in this Kingdom of Spor . 
But , of course , no one knew positively , and all these guesses were very wide of the mark . 
Into this Kingdom of Spor Prince Marvel and Nerle had now penetrated and , neither knowing nor caring where they were , continued along the faintly defined paths the horses had found . 
Why do you laugh ? asked Prince Marvel , stopping his horse . 
Have you been invited ? Tell me have you been invited ? demanded the old man , chuckling to himself as if much amused . 
Invited where ? inquired the prince . 
To Spor , stupid ! To the Kingdom of Spor ! To the land of King Terribus ! shrieked the old man , going into violent peals of laughter . 
We go and come as we please , answered Prince Marvel , calmly . 
Go yes ! Go if you will . 
A strange creature ! exclaimed the prince thoughtfully . 
But perhaps he speaks truth , answered Nerle , if , in fact , we have been rash enough to enter the Kingdom of Spor . 
Even my father , the bravest baron in Heg , has never dared venture within the borders of Spor . 
For all men fear its mysterious king . 
In that case , replied Prince Marvel , it is time some one investigated this strange kingdom . 
People have left King Terribus and his wild subjects too much to themselves instead of stirring them up and making them behave themselves . 
Nerle smiled at this speech . 
They are the fiercest people on the Enchanted Island , said he , and there are thousands upon thousands who obey this unknown king . 
But if you think we dare defy them I am willing to go on . 
Perhaps our boldness will lead them into torturing me , or starving me to death and at the very least I ought to find much trouble and privation in the Kingdom of Spor . 
Time will determine that , said the prince , cheerfully . 
They had now ridden into a narrow defile of the mountains , the pathway being lined with great fragments of rock . 
They bore no weapons except that each was armed with a fork , having three sharp tines six inches in length , which the Gray Men carried stuck through their fox hide belts . 
Nerle also looked back and saw the silent throng following them , and the sight sent such a cold shiver creeping up his spine that he smiled with pleasure . 
The assembled giants were as silent as the Gray Men , and stood motionless while Prince Marvel and Nerle rode slowly up the marble roadway . 
But all their brows were scowling terribly and their eyes were red and glaring as if they were balls of fire . 
I begin to feel very pleasant , said Nerle , for surely we shall not get away from these folks without a vast deal of trouble . 
They do not seem to oppose our advance , but it is plain they will not allow us any chance of retreat . 
We do not wish to retreat , declared the prince . 
It strikes me , he muttered , softly , that this is like to prove our last adventure . 
But although Prince Marvel might have heard the words he made no reply , being evidently engaged in deep thought . 
Tiny dwarfs , so crooked that they resembled crabs , rushed forward and seized the bridles of the horses , while the strangers slowly dismounted and looked around them . 
I follow no one ! said he , proudly . 
I am Prince Marvel , sirrah , and if the owner of this castle wishes to see me I shall receive him here , as befits my rank and station . 
The man looked surprised , but only bowed lower than before . 
It is the king's command , he answered . 
The king ? Yes you are in the castle of King Terribus , the lord and ruler of Spor . 
That is different , remarked the prince , lightly . 
Still , I will follow no man . 
Point out the way and I will go to meet his Majesty . 
The old man extended a lean and trembling finger toward an archway . 
Prince Marvel strode forward , followed by Nerle , and passing under the arch he threw open a door at the far end and boldly entered the throne room of King Terribus . 
The Fool Killer The room was round , with a dome at the top . 
The bare walls were of gray stone , with square , open windows set full twenty feet from the floor . 
Rough gray stone also composed the floor , and in the center of the room stood one great rock with a seat hollowed in its middle . 
This was the throne , and round about it stood a swarm of men and women dressed in rich satins , velvets and brocades , brilliantly ornamented with gold and precious stones . 
The men were of many shapes and sizes giants and dwarfs being among them . 
The women all seemed young and beautiful . 
Prince Marvel cast but a passing glance at this assemblage , for his eye quickly sought the rude throne on which was seated King Terribus . 
The personal appearance of this monster was doubtless the most hideous known in that age of the world . 
His head was large and shaped like an egg it was bright scarlet in color and no hair whatever grew upon it . 
It had three eyes one in the center of his face , one on the top of his head and one in the back . 
Thus he was always able to see in every direction at the same time . 
His nose was shaped like an elephant's trunk , and swayed constantly from side to side . 
His mouth was very wide and had no lips at all , two rows of sharp and white teeth being always plainly visible beneath the swaying nose . 
When Prince Marvel , with Nerle marching close behind , entered the great room , Terribus looked at him sharply a moment , and then bowed . 
And when he bowed the eye upon the top of his head also looked sharply at the intruders . 
Then the king spoke , his voice sounding so sweet and agreeable that it almost shocked Nerle , who had expected to hear a roar like that from a wild beast . 
Why are you here ? asked Terribus . 
Partly by chance and partly from curiosity , answered Prince Marvel . 
The faces of the people who stood about the throne wore frightened looks at the unheard of boldness of this speech to their terrible monarch . 
Ha ! you are honest , as well as frank , exclaimed the king . 
But that is the reason I do not leave my kingdom , as you will readily understand . 
And that is the reason I never permit strangers to come here , under penalty of death . 
So long as no one knows the King of Spor is a monster people will not gossip about my looks , and I am very sensitive regarding my personal appearance . 
You will perhaps understand that if I could have chosen I should have been born beautiful instead of ugly . 
And permit me to say I wish you were beautiful . 
I shall probably dream of you for many nights , added the prince . 
Not for many , said King Terribus , quietly . 
By coming here you have chosen death , and the dead do not dream . 
Why should I die ? inquired Prince Marvel , curiously . 
Because you have seen me . 
Should I allow you to go away you would tell the world about my ugly face . 
I do not like to kill you , believe me but you must pay the penalty of your rashness you and the man behind you . 
Nerle smiled at this but whether from pride at being called a man or in pleasurable anticipation of the sufferings to come I leave you to guess . 
Will you allow me to object to being killed ? asked the prince . 
Certainly , answered the king , courteously . 
I expect you to object . 
But it will do you no good . 
Then Terribus turned to an attendant and commanded Send hither the Fool Killer . 
At this Prince Marvel laughed outright . 
The Fool Killer ! he cried surely your Majesty does me little credit . 
Am I , then , a fool ? You entered my kingdom uninvited , retorted the king , and you tell me to my face I am ugly . 
Moreover , you laugh when I condemn you to death . 
From this I conclude the Fool Killer is the proper one to execute you . 
Behold ! Marvel turned quickly , to find a tall , stalwart man standing behind him . 
His features were strong but very grave , and the prince caught a look of compassion in his eye as their gaze met . 
His skin was fair and without blemish , a robe of silver cloth fell from his shoulders , and in his right hand he bore a gleaming sword . 
Well met ! cried Marvel , heartily , as he bowed to the Fool Killer . 
I have often heard your name mentioned , but 'tis said in the world that you are a laggard in your duty . 
Had I my way , answered the Fool Killer , my blade would always drip . 
It is my master , yonder , who thwarts my duty . 
And he nodded toward King Terribus . 
Then you should exercise your right on him , and cleave the ugly head from his shoulders , declared the prince . 
Why , that may be true enough , replied Prince Marvel . 
But I think , under such circumstances , your Fool Killer is a needless servant . 
So I will rid you of him in a few moments . 
With that he whipped out his sword and stood calmly confronting the Fool Killer , whose grave face never changed in expression as he advanced menacingly upon his intended victim . 
The blades clashed together , and that of the Fool Killer broke short off at the hilt . 
He took a step backward , stumbled and fell prone upon the rocky floor , while Prince Marvel sprang forward and pressed the point of his sword against his opponent's breast . 
Hold ! cried the king , starting to his feet . 
Would you slay my Fool Killer ? Think of the harm you would do the world ! But he is laggard and unfaithful to his calling ! answered the prince , sternly . 
Nevertheless , if he remove but one fool a year he is a benefit to mankind , declared the king . 
Release him , I pray you ! Then the victor withdrew his sword and stood aside , while the Fool Killer slowly got upon his feet and bowed humbly before the king . 
Go ! shouted Terribus , his eye flashing angrily . 
You have humiliated me before my enemy . 
As an atonement see that you kill me a fool a day for sixty days . 
The Royal Dragon of Spor Now , said Terribus , regarding the prince gloomily , I must dispose of you in another way . 
For a moment he dropped his scarlet head in thought . 
Then he turned fiercely upon his attendants . 
Let the Wrestler come forward ! he shouted , as loudly as his mild voice would carry . 
Instantly a tall blackamoor advanced from the throng and cast off his flowing robe , showing a strong figure clad only in a silver loincloth . 
Crack me this fellow's bones ! commanded Terribus . 
I beg your Majesty will not compel me to touch him , said Prince Marvel , with a slight shudder for his skin is greasy , and will soil my hands . 
Here , Nerle ! he continued , turning to his esquire , dispose of this black man , and save me the trouble . 
The black was a powerfully built man , and compared with Nerle and the prince , who had but the stature of boys , he towered like a very giant in size . 
Nevertheless , Nerle did not hesitate to spring upon the Wrestler , who with a quick movement sent the boy crashing against the stone pavement . 
But he gave a happy little laugh , and said to the prince , gratefully Thank you very much , my master ! The fall is hurting me delightfully . 
But Marvel made a quick leap and seized the Wrestler firmly around the waist . 
When the king and his people again turned their wondering eyes upon the prince he was wiping his hands carefully upon a silk handkerchief . 
At this sight a pretty young girl , who stood near the throne , laughed aloud , and the sound of her laughter made King Terribus very angry . 
Come here ! he commanded , sternly . 
The girl stepped forward , her face now pale and frightened , while tear drops trembled upon the lashes that fringed her downcast eyes . 
Instantly a dwarf came near , bearing a beautiful golden goblet in his crooked hands . 
Drink ! he said , an evil leer upon his face . 
The girl well knew this goblet contained a vile poison , one drop of which on her tongue would cause death so she hesitated , trembling and shrinking from the ordeal . 
Prince Marvel looked into her sweet face with pitying eyes , and stepping quickly to her side , took her hand in his . 
Now drink ! he said , smiling upon her the poison will not hurt you . 
She drank obediently , while the dwarf chuckled with awful glee and the king looked on eagerly , expecting her to fall dead at his feet . 
But instead the girl stood upright and pressed Marvel's hand , looking gratefully into his face . 
You are a fairy ! she whispered , so low that no one else heard her voice . 
I knew that you would save me . 
Keep my secret , whispered the prince in return , and still holding her hand he led her back to her former place . 
King Terribus was almost wild with rage and disappointment , and his elephant nose twisted and squirmed horribly . 
So you dare to thwart my commands , do you ! he cried , excitedly . 
Well , we shall soon see which of us is the more powerful . 
I have decreed your death and die you shall ! For a moment his eye roved around the chamber uncertainly . 
Then he shouted , suddenly Ho , there ! Keepers of the royal menagerie appear ! Three men entered the room and bowed before the king . 
They were of the Gray Men of the mountains , who had followed Prince Marvel and Nerle through the rocky passes . 
The noise and shouting drew nearer , while the people huddled together like frightened sheep and then suddenly the doors flew open and the Royal Dragon advanced to the center of the room . 
This creature was at once the pride and terror of the Kingdom of Spor . 
It was more than thirty feet in length and covered everywhere with large green scales set with diamonds , making the dragon , when it moved , a very glittering spectacle . 
Its eyes were as big as pie plates , and its mouth when wide opened fully as large as a bath tub . 
Its tail was very long and ended in a golden ball , such as you see on the top of flagstaffs . 
Its legs , which were as thick as those of an elephant , had scales which were set with rubies and emeralds . 
The Royal Dragon of Spor came crawling into the throne room rather clumsily , groaning and moaning with every step and waving its ears like two blankets flying from a clothesline . 
The king looked on it and frowned . 
Why are you not breathing fire and brimstone ? he demanded , angrily . 
Then why didn't you light it again ? asked Terribus , turning on the keepers . 
We we were out of matches , your Majesty ! stammered the trembling Gray Men . 
Instantly the creature's breath caught fire and it began to breathe flames a yard in length . 
That's better , sighed the Dragon , contentedly . 
I hope your Majesty is now satisfied . 
No , I am not satisfied ! declared King Terribus . 
Why do you not lash your tail ? Ah , I can't do that ! replied the Dragon . 
It's all stiffened up with rheumatism from the dampness of my cave . 
It hurts too much to lash it . 
Well , then , gnash your teeth ! commanded the king . 
Tut tut ! answered the Dragon , mildly I can't do that , either for since you had them so beautifully carved it makes my teeth ache to gnash them . 
Well , then , what are you good for ? cried the king , in a fury . 
I guess there's no need for me to suggest terror to any one that happens to see me , it added , winking one of the pie plate eyes at King Terribus . 
The king looked at the monster critically , and it really seemed to him that it was a frightful thing to behold . 
So he curbed his anger and said , in his ordinary sweet voice I have called you here to destroy these two strangers . 
How ? asked the Dragon , looking upon Prince Marvel and Nerle with interest . 
I am not particular , answered the king . 
You may consume them with your fiery breath , or smash them with your tail , or grind them to atoms between your teeth , or tear them to pieces with your claws . 
Do get to work as soon as possible . 
Prince Marvel Prince Marvel , repeated the Dragon . 
Why , there isn't a prince in the whole world named Marvel ! I'm pretty well posted on the history of royal families , you know . 
I'm afraid he's Saint George in disguise . 
Isn't your name Prince Marvel ? inquired the king , turning to the boyish looking stranger . 
It is , answered Marvel . 
Well , it's mighty strange I've never heard of you , persisted the Dragon . 
But tell me , please , how would you prefer to be killed ? Oh , I'm not going to be killed at all , replied the prince , laughing . 
Do you hear that , Terribus ? asked the Dragon , turning to the king he says he isn't going to be killed . 
But I say he is ! cried Terribus . 
I have decreed his death . 
No , I don't and that's flat ! returned the Dragon , sharply . 
It's time for me to take my cough medicine so if you've nothing more to say I'll go back to my cave . 
Go , go , go ! shrieked the king , stamping his foot in passion . 
But his powers were by no means exhausted . 
He was a mighty king the mightiest of all in the Enchanted Island , he believed and ways to destroy his enemies were numerous . 
Send for a hundred of my Gray Men ! he suddenly cried and a courtier ran at once to summon them . 
The Gray Men would obey his orders without question , he well knew . 
They were silent , stubborn , quick , and faithful to their king . 
Terribus had but to command and his will would be obeyed . 
They entered the room so quietly that Nerle never knew they were there until he turned and found the hundred gray ones standing close together in the center of the hall . 
Then Prince Marvel came to Nerle's side and whispered something in his ear . 
Will you obey my orders ? they heard the king ask . 
Prince Marvel handed one end of a coiled rope to Nerle , and then they both sprang forward and ran around the spot where the hundred Gray Men stood huddled together . 
And , while he still gazed open mouthed at the strange sight , Prince Marvel tilted the bundle of men up on its edge and rolled it out of the door . 
It went rolling swiftly through the courtyard and bounded down the castle steps , where the rope broke and the men fell sprawling in all directions on the marble walk . 
King Terribus sighed , for such treatment of his Gray Men , whom he dearly loved , made him very unhappy . 
So , after a moment's thought , Terribus beckoned to a dwarf who , robed in gay and glittering apparel , stood near his throne . 
Summon the royal Dart Slingers ! he said , with a scowl . 
The little man bowed and hastened away , to return presently with twenty curiously crooked dwarfs , each armed with a sling and a quiver full of slender , sharp pointed darts . 
Slay me these strangers ! exclaimed the king , in his gruffest voice . 
And he reflected Soon shall I be content , for these darts will doubtless pierce every part of my body . 
Stand close behind me and you will be safe , he whispered to his esquire . 
Swift and true they sped , each dart intended to pierce the body of the youthful knight who stood so calm before them . 
Prince Marvel had raised his right arm , and in his hand was a small leather sack , with a wide mouth . 
Again ! screamed the king , his usually mild voice hoarse with anger . 
So again the dwarfs cast their darts , and again the leathern sack caught them every one . 
Another flight followed , and yet another , till the magic sack was packed full of the darts and not a dwarf had one remaining in his quiver . 
Plucking a dart from the sack he raised his arm and cried Now it is my turn . 
You shall have back your darts ! Hold ! shouted the king , in great fear . 
Do not , I beg you , slay my faithful servants . 
And with a wave of his hand he dismissed the dwarfs , who were glad to rush from the room and escape . 
The monarch of Spor had never before been so foiled and scorned by any living creature . 
Defeated and humbled before his own people , he bowed his crimson head on his hands and sullenly regarded his foe with his top eye . 
That a fairy should have assumed a mortal form he never once considered , for such a thing was until then unheard of in the Enchanted Island of Yew . 
As the result of this thought he presently raised his head and spoke to Prince Marvel in a quiet and even cheerful voice . 
Enough of these rude and boisterous games , said he , with a smile that showed his white teeth in a repulsive manner . 
But no more of such fooling , and pray forgive my merry game at your expense . 
Henceforth we shall be friends , and you are heartily welcome to the best my kingdom affords . 
With this speech Terribus stepped down from his throne and approached Prince Marvel with outstretched hand . 
The prince was not at all deceived , but he was pleased to see how cunningly the king excused his attempts to kill him . 
So he laughed and touched the hand Terribus extended , for this fairy prince seemed to have no anger against any mortal who ventured to oppose him . 
No sooner had they bathed and adorned themselves fittingly than they were summoned to the king's banquet hall , being escorted thither by twelve young maidens bearing torches with lavender colored flames . 
Yet here , as in the throne room , the ruler of Spor was dressed in simplest garments , and his seat was a rough block of stone . 
All about him were lords and ladies in gorgeous array the walls were hung with rare embroideries the table was weighted with gold platters and richly carved goblets filled with sweet nectars . 
Terribus placed his guest upon his right hand and loaded him with honors . 
Nerle stood behind the prince's chair and served him faithfully , as an esquire should . 
But the other servants treated Nerle with much deference , noting in him an air of breeding that marked him the unusual servant of an unusual master . 
The Cunning of King Terribus The days that followed were pleasant ones for Prince Marvel and Nerle , who were treated as honored guests by both the king and his courtiers . 
One day the prince noticed his esquire's dismal expression of countenance , and asked the cause of it . 
Why , said Nerle , here I have left my home to seek worries and troubles , and have found but the same humdrum life that existed at my father's castle . 
Here our days are made smooth and pleasant , and there is no excitement or grief , whatever . 
You have become a carpet knight , Prince Marvel , and think more of bright eyes than of daring deeds . 
So , if you will release me from your service I will seek further adventures . 
Nay , returned the prince , we will go together for I , too , am tired of this life of pleasure . 
So next morning Marvel sought the presence of King Terribus and said I have come to bid your Majesty adieu , for my esquire and I are about to leave your dominions . 
At first the king laughed , and his long nose began to sway from side to side . 
Then , seeing the prince was in earnest , his Majesty frowned and grew disturbed . 
Finally he said I must implore you to remain my guests a short time longer . 
No one has ever before visited me in my mountain home , and I do not wish to lose the pleasure of your society so soon . 
Nevertheless , we must go , answered the prince , briefly . 
Are you not contented ? asked Terribus . 
Ask whatever you may desire , and it shall be granted you . 
We desire adventures amid new scenes , said Marvel , and these you can not give us except by permission to depart . 
Seeing his guest was obstinate the king ceased further argument and said Very well go if you wish . 
But I shall hope to see you return to us this evening . 
Standing around were many rows and files of the Gray Men , and when they reached the marble roadway they found it lined with motionless forms of the huge giants . 
But no one interfered with them in any way , although both Prince Marvel and Nerle knew that every eye followed them as they rode forward . 
The pleased , expectant look on Nerle's face had gradually turned to one of gloom . 
I hoped we should have a fight to get away , he said , sadly and in that case I might have suffered considerable injury and pain . 
But no one has injured us in any way , and perhaps King Terribus is really glad to be rid of us . 
On they rode through the rough hill paths , winding this way and that , until they lost all sense of the direction in which they were going . 
Never mind , said the prince so long as we get farther and farther away from the ugly Terribus I shall be satisfied . 
Who is the High Ki of Twi ? asked Prince Marvel . 
No one knows , answered Nerle . 
And what is the Kingdom of Twi like ? No one knows that , answered Nerle . 
Then , returned the prince , with a smile , if by chance we visit the place we shall know more than any one else . 
At noon they ate luncheon by the wayside , Nerle having filled his pouch by stealth at the breakfast table . 
There were great fragments of rock lying all about them , and the sun beat down so fiercely that the heat reflected from the rocks was hard to bear . 
So the travelers did not linger over their meal , but remounted and rode away as soon as possible . 
When the sun began to get lower in the sky the rocks beside the path threw the riders into shadow , so that their journey became more pleasant . 
They rode along , paying little attention to the way , but talking and laughing merrily together , until it began to grow dark . 
Does this path never end ? asked Prince Marvel , suddenly . 
We ought to reach some place where men dwell before long , else we shall be obliged to spend the night among these rocks . 
And then perhaps the wolves will attack us , said Nerle , cheerfully , and tear us into pieces with their sharp teeth and claws . 
But even as he spoke they rode around a turn in the path and saw a sight that made them pause in astonishment . 
Nerle turned around in his saddle . 
Sure enough , there were the Gray Men in the rear stepping from behind every boulder and completely filling the rocky pathway . 
Well , what shall we do ? asked the esquire fight ? No , indeed ! returned Prince Marvel , laughing at his friend's eager face . 
It appears the path we chose winds around in a circle , and so has brought us back to our starting point . 
So we must make the best of a bad blunder and spend another night with our ugly friend King Terribus . 
They rode forward through the rows of giants to the castle , where the ever courteous servants took their horses and escorted them to their former handsome apartments with every mark of respect . 
No one seemed in the least surprised at their speedy return , and this fact at first puzzled Nerle , and then made him suspicious . 
After bathing and dusting their clothing they descended to the banquet hall , where King Terribus sat upon his gray stone throne and welcomed them with quiet courtesy . 
Also it seemed to him that the king's skin was not so crimson in color as before , and that a thin growth of hair had covered his head . 
However , no one else appeared to notice any change least of all Terribus so Nerle seated himself at the table and began to eat . 
It was very kind of you to return so soon to my poor castle , said the king to Prince Marvel , in his sweet voice . 
But to morrow we shall seek a new path and bid you farewell forever . 
Still , remarked the king , gravely , should you again miss your way , I shall be glad to welcome your return . 
The prince bowed politely by way of reply , and turned to address the little maiden he had once saved from death by poison . 
And so in feasting , dancing and laughter the evening passed pleasantly enough to the prince , and it was late when he called Nerle to attend him to their apartment . 
The Gift of Beauty The following morning Marvel and Nerle once more set out to leave the Kingdom of Spor and its ugly king . 
This repetition of their former experience somewhat annoyed the prince , while Nerle's usually despondent face wore a smile . 
I see trouble ahead , murmured the esquire , almost cheerfully . 
Since the king can not conquer us by force he intends to do it by sorcery . 
Marvel did not reply , but greeted the king quietly , while Terribus welcomed their return as calmly as if he well knew they could not escape him . 
That evening the prince made another pass toward the king with his hand and muttered again the magic word . 
Nerle was watching , and saw the upper eye of Terribus glide still farther down his forehead and the other eye move again toward the left . 
The swaying nose shrank to a few inches in length , and the skin that had once been so brilliantly crimson turned to a dull red color . 
You have seen ME , returned Terribus , calmly , and I do not intend you shall go back to the world and tell people how ugly I am . 
The prince looked at him , and could not repress a smile . 
And the nose , although small when compared to what it had been , still resembled an elephant's trunk . 
Other changes had been made for the better , but Terribus was still exceedingly repulsive to look upon . 
Prince Marvel became thoughtful at this , reflecting that the king's enmity all arose from his sensitiveness about his ugly appearance , and this filled the youthful knight with pity rather than resentment . 
When they had all assembled at the evening banquet the prince , for a third time , made a mystic pass at the king and whispered a magic word . 
And behold ! this time the charm was complete . 
For the two front eyes of Terribus fell into their proper places , his nose became straight and well formed , and his skin took on a natural , healthy color . 
Moreover , he now had a fine head of soft brown hair , with eyebrows and eyelashes to match , and his head was shapely and in proportion to his body . 
As for the eye that had formerly been in the back of his head , it had disappeared completely . 
Knowing from their pleased looks that he must have improved in appearance , he found courage to raise his hand to his nose , and found it well formed . 
Then he touched his eyes , and realized they were looking straight out from his face , like those of other people . 
For some moments after making these discoveries the king remained motionless , a smile of joy gradually spreading over his features . 
Is my face indeed pleasing ? demanded the king , eagerly . 
It is ! cried the assembled courtiers and ladies , as with one voice . 
Bring me a mirror ! said the king . 
I shall look at my reflection for the first time in many years . 
For years I have been so terrible in feature that I dared not even look at my own image in a mirror . 
But now , thanks to the gracious magic of my guest , I have become like other men , and hereafter you will find my rule as kind as it was formerly cruel . 
Terribus joined freely in the revelry , laughing as gaily as the lightest hearted damsel present . 
When you are older , said he , you will find that often there are many ways to accomplish a single purpose . 
The king's ugliness was the bar to our leaving his country , for he feared our gossip . 
So the easiest way for us to compass our escape was to take away his reason for detaining us . 
Thus I conquered the king in my own way , and at the same time gained his gratitude and friendship . 
Will he allow us to depart in the morning ? inquired Nerle . 
I think so , said Marvel . 
It was late when they rose from their slumbers but , having breakfasted , the prince's first act was to seek the king . 
We wish to leave your kingdom , said he . 
Will you let us go ? Terribus grasped the hand of his guest and pressed it with fervor , while tears of gratitude stood in his eyes . 
I should prefer that you remain with me always , and be my friend , he answered . 
But if you choose to leave me I shall not interfere in any way with your wishes . 
Prince Marvel looked at him thoughtfully , and then said My time on this island is short . 
In a few months Prince Marvel will have passed out of the knowledge of men , and his name will be forgotten . 
Before then I hope to visit the Kingdoms of Dawna and Auriel and Plenta so I must not delay , but beg you will permit me to depart at once . 
Very well , answered Terribus . 
Come with me , and I shall show you the way . 
He led the prince and Nerle to a high wall of rock , and placing his hand upon its rough surface , touched a hidden spring . 
Instantly an immense block of stone began to swing backward , disclosing a passage large enough for a man on horseback to ride through . 
This is the one road that leads out of my kingdom , said Terribus . 
The others all begin and end at the castle . 
So that unless you know the secret of this passage you could never escape from Spor . 
But where does this road lead ? asked Marvel . 
To the Kingdom of Auriel , which you desire to visit . 
It is not a straight road , for it winds around the Land of Twi , so it will carry you a little out of your way . 
What is the Land of Twi ? inquired the prince . 
A small country hidden from the view of all travelers , said Terribus . 
No one has ever yet found a way to enter the land of Twi yet there is a rumor that it is ruled by a mighty personage called the High Ki . 
And now farewell , and may good luck attend you . 
I thank you , said Marvel , but there is small chance of my needing help . 
The courtiers and ladies had flocked from the palace to witness their departure , and the giants and dwarfs and Gray Men were drawn up in long lines to speed the king's guests . 
Our faces are set toward new adventures , remarked the prince . 
Let us hope they will prove more pleasant than the last . 
To be sure ! responded Nerle . 
Let us hope , at any rate , that we shall suffer more privations and encounter more trouble than we did in that mountainous Kingdom of Spor . 
Then he added For one reason , I regret you are my master . 
What is that reason ? asked the prince , turning to smile upon his esquire . 
You have a way of overcoming all difficulties without any trouble whatsoever , and that deprives me of any chance of coming to harm while in your company . 
Cheer up , my boy ! cried Marvel . 
Did I not say there are new adventures before us ? We may not come through them so easily as we came through the others . 
That is true , replied Nerle it is always best to hope . 
And then he inquired Why do you stop here , in the middle of the path ? Because the path has ended rather suddenly , answered Marvel . 
Here is a thick hedge of prickly briers barring our way . 
Nerle looked over his master's shoulder and saw that a great hedge , high and exceedingly thick , cut off all prospect of their advancing . 
This is pleasant , said he but I might try to force our way through the hedge . 
The briers would probably prick me severely , and that would be delightful . 
Try it ! the prince returned , with twinkling eyes . 
Ah , that will content you for a time , I trust , said Marvel . 
Now follow me , and we will ride along beside the hedge until we find an opening . 
For either it will come to an end or there will prove to be a way through it to the other side . 
So they rode alongside the hedge for hour after hour yet it did not end , nor could they espy any way to get through the thickly matted briers . 
They had brought a supply of food in their pouches , and on this they breakfasted , afterward continuing their journey beside the hedge . 
At noon Prince Marvel uttered an exclamation of surprise and stopped his horse . 
What is it ? asked Nerle . 
I have found the handkerchief with which you wiped the blood from your hands yesterday morning , and then carelessly dropped , replied the prince . 
This proves that we have made a complete circle around this hedge without finding a way to pass through it . 
In that case , said Nerle , we had better leave the hedge and go in another direction . 
Not so , declared Marvel . 
The hedge incloses some unknown country , and I am curious to find out what it is . 
But there is no opening , remonstrated Nerle . 
Then we must make one . 
Wouldn't you like to enjoy a little more pain ? Thank you , answered Nerle , my hands are still smarting very comfortably from the pricks of yesterday . 
Therefore I must make the attempt myself , said the prince , and drawing his sword he whispered a queer word to it , and straightway began slashing at the hedge . 
The brambles fell fast before his blade , and when he had cut a big heap of branches from the hedge Nerle dragged them to one side , and the prince began again . 
It was marvelous how thick the hedge proved . 
Only a magic sword could have done this work and remained sharp , and only a fairy arm could have proved strong enough to hew through the tough wood . 
But the magic sword and fairy arm were at work , and naught could resist them . 
After a time the last branches were severed and dragged from the path , and then the travelers rode their horses through the gap into the unknown country beyond . 
Before them were two trees , exactly alike . 
And underneath the trees two cows were grazing each a perfect likeness of the other . 
At their left were two cottages , with every door and window and chimney the exact counterpart of another . 
And of you , answered the boy . 
What sort of country have we got into ? he asked . 
Let us find out , replied the prince , and riding up to one of the houses he knocked on the door with the hilt of his sword . 
Instantly the doors of both houses flew open , and both men appeared in the doorways . 
Both started back in amazement at sight of the strangers , and both women shrieked and both little boys began to cry . 
Both mothers boxed the children's ears , and both men gasped out Who who are you ? Their voices were exactly alike , and their words were spoken in unison . 
Prince Marvel replied , courteously We are two strangers who have strayed into your country . 
But I do not understand why our appearance should so terrify you . 
Why you are singular ! There is only half of each of you ! exclaimed the two men , together . 
Not so , said the prince , trying hard not to laugh in their faces . 
We may be single , while you appear to be double but each of us is perfect , nevertheless . 
Perfect ! And only half of you ! cried the men . 
Nor did we ! retorted the prince . 
I assure you we are as much surprised as you are . 
Nerle laughed again at this , and to hear only one of the strangers speak and the other only laugh seemed to terrify the double people anew . 
So Prince Marvel quickly asked Please tell us what country this is ? The Land of Twi , answered both men , together . 
Oh ! the Land of Twi . 
And why is the light here so dim ? continued the prince . 
Dim ? repeated the men , as if surprised why , this is twilight , of course . 
Of course , said Nerle . 
I hadn't thought of that . 
We are in the long hidden Land of Twi , which all men have heard of , but no man has found before . 
And who may you be ? questioned the prince , looking from one man to the other , curiously . 
We are Twis , they answered . 
Twice ? Twis inhabitants of Twi . 
It's the same thing , laughed Nerle . 
You see everything twice in this land . 
Are none of your people single ? asked Prince Marvel . 
Single , returned the men , as if perplexed . 
Are you all double ? or are some of you just one ? said the prince , who found it difficult to put his question plainly . 
What does 'one' mean ? asked the men . 
There is no such word as 'one' in our language . 
They have no need of such a word , declared Nerle . 
We are only poor laborers , explained the men . 
But over the hills lie the cities of Twi , where the Ki and the Ki Ki dwell , and also the High Ki . 
Ah ! said Marvel , I've heard of your High Ki . 
Who is he ? The men shook their heads , together and with the same motion . 
We have never seen the glorious High Ki , they answered . 
The sight of their faces is forbidden . 
None but the Ki and the Ki Ki has seen the Supreme Rulers and High Ki . 
I'm getting mixed , said Nerle . 
All this about the Ki and the Ki Ki and the High Ki makes me dizzy . 
Let's go on to the city and explore it . 
That is a good suggestion , replied the prince . 
Good by , my friends , he added , addressing the men . 
They both bowed , and although they still seemed somewhat frightened they answered him civilly and in the same words , and closed their doors at the same time . 
And when they were a safe distance they both stopped , looked over their right shoulders , and mooed at the same instant . 
The Ki and the Ki Ki From the tops of the hills the travelers caught their first glimpse of the wonderful cities of Twi . 
Two walls surrounded the cities , and in the walls were two gates just alike . 
Within the inclosures stood many houses , but all were built in pairs , from the poorest huts to the most splendid palaces . 
Every street was double , the pavements running side by side . 
There were two lamp posts on every corner , and in the dim twilight that existed these lamp posts were quite necessary . 
They followed the paths down to the gates of the walls , where two pairs of soldiers rushed out and seized their horses by the bridles . 
These soldiers all seemed to be twins , or at least mates , and each one of each pair was as like the other as are two peas growing in the same pod . 
These soldiers , as they looked upon Nerle and the prince , seemed fully as much astonished and certainly more frightened than their prisoners . 
How dare you stop us , fellows ? asked the prince , sternly . 
Such things were never before heard of ! said the two captains , their startled eyes fixed upon the prisoners . 
We must take them to the Ki and the Ki Ki . 
Why so ? asked Prince Marvel . 
Because , replied the officers , they are our rulers , under grace of the High Ki , and all unusual happenings must be brought to their notice . 
It is our law , you know the law of the Kingdom of Twi . 
Very well , said Marvel , quietly take us where you will but if any harm is intended us you will be made to regret it . 
The Ki and the Ki Ki will decide , returned the captains gravely , their words sounding at the same instant . 
Presently they came upon a twin palace with twin turrets rising high into the air and before the twin doors the prisoners dismounted . 
Marvel was escorted through one door and Nerle through another , and then they saw each other going down a double hallway to a room with a double entrance . 
Passing through this they found themselves in a large hall with two domes set side by side in the roof . 
The domes were formed of stained glass , and the walls of the hall were ornamented by pictures in pairs , each pair showing identically the same scenes . 
Beneath the other dome sat the Ki Ki of Twi , also on double thrones , similar to those of the Ki . 
We found them at your cities' gates and brought them to you at once . 
They are , as your Highnesses will see , each singular , and but half of what he should be . 
'Tis so ! cried the double Ki , in loud voices , and slapping their right thighs with their right palms at the same time . 
Most remarkable ! Most remarkable ! I don't see anything remarkable about it , returned Prince Marvel , calmly . 
It is you , who are not singular , but double , that seem strange and outlandish . 
Perhaps perhaps ! said the two old men , thoughtfully . 
It is what we are not accustomed to that seems to us remarkable . 
Eh , Ki Ki ? they added , turning to the other rulers . 
The old men looked puzzled , and glanced sharply from their little black eyes at their prisoners . 
We thought nothing existed outside the hedge of Twi , they answered , simply . 
But your presence here proves we were wrong . 
Eh ! Ki Ki ? This last was again directed toward the pair of musicians , who continued to play and only nodded quietly , as before . 
Therefore you must go back through the hedge again and stay on the other side . 
Eh , Ki Ki ? The Ki Ki still continued playing , but now spoke the first words the prisoners had heard from them . 
They must die , said the Ki Ki , in soft and agreeable voices . 
We can not be annoyed . 
Having delivered this speech both the Ki Ki went on playing the new tune , as if the matter was settled . 
Nonsense ! retorted the old Ki , angrily . 
You may be the Ki , but we are the Ki Ki , and your superior . 
Not in this case , declared the old men . 
Where life and death are concerned we have equal powers with you . 
And if we disagree ? asked the players , gently . 
Great Kika koo ! If we disagree the High Ki must judge between us ! roared the twin Ki , excitedly . 
Quite so , answered the Ki Ki . 
They shall not die ! stormed the old men , with fierce gestures toward the others , while both pairs of black eyes flashed angrily . 
Then we disagree , and they must be taken to the High Ki , returned the blond musicians , beginning to play another tune . 
The two Ki rose from their thrones , paced two steps to the right and three steps to the left , and then sat down again . 
At this command the twin captains bowed again to both pairs of rulers and led Prince Marvel and Nerle from the room . 
Then they were escorted along the streets to the twin houses of the captains , and here the officers paused and scratched their left ears with uncertain gestures . 
There being only half of each of you , they said , we do not know how to lock each of you in double rooms . 
Oh , let us both occupy the same room , said Prince Marvel . 
Very well , answered the captains we must transgress our usual customs in any event , so you may as well be lodged as you wish . 
The High Ki of Twi Tell me , Prince , are we awake or asleep ? asked Nerle , as soon as they were alone . 
There is no question of our being awake , replied the prince , with a laugh . 
It makes me giddy to look at them , and I keep feeling of myself to make sure there is still only one of me . 
You are but half a boy ! laughed the prince at least so long as you remain in the Land of Twi . 
It is strange , said the prince , thoughtfully , that the fierce looking old Ki should be our friends and the gentle Ki Ki our enemies . 
How little one can tell from appearances what sort of heart beats in a person's body ! Before Nerle could answer the two doors opened and two pairs of soldiers entered . 
Then they shook all their twin heads gravely and went away , locking the twin doors behind them . 
We have one advantage in being singular , said Nerle , cheerfully and that is we are not likely to starve to death . 
For we can eat the portions of our missing twins as well as our own . 
I should think you would enjoy starving , remarked the prince . 
No I believe I have more exquisite suffering in store for me , since I have met that gentle pair of Ki Ki , said Nerle . 
While they were eating the two captains came in and sat down in two chairs . 
Your gray bearded old Ki say we shall not die . 
True , answered the captains . 
But the Ki Ki have declared you shall . 
Their powers seem to be equal , said Nerle , and we are to be taken before the High Ki for judgment . 
Therein lies your danger , returned the captains , speaking in the same tones and with the same accents on their words . 
For it is well known the Ki Ki has more influence with the High Ki than the Ki has . 
Hold on ! cried Nerle you are making me dizzy again . 
I can't keep track of all these Kis . 
What is the High Ki like ? asked Prince Marvel , who was much interested in the conversation of the captains . 
But this question the officers seemed unable to answer . 
They shook their heads slowly and said The High Ki are not visible to the people of Twi . 
But if they chance to disagree , then the matter is carried before the High Ki , who live in a palace surrounded by high walls , in which there are no gates . 
Only these rulers have ever seen the other side of the walls , or know what the High Ki are like . 
That is strange , said the prince . 
But we , ourselves , it seems , are to see the High Ki to morrow , and whoever they may chance to be , we hope to remain alive after the interview . 
That is certainly encouraging , said Nerle . 
Perhaps his royal doublets will torture me most exquisitely before putting me to death , and then I shall feel that I have not lived in vain . 
They slept in comfortable beds that night , although an empty twin bed stood beside each one they occupied . 
And in the morning they were served another excellent meal , after which the captains escorted them again to the twin palaces of the Ki and the Ki Ki . 
There the two pairs of rulers met them and headed the long procession of soldiers toward the palace of the High Ki . 
After the band marched the double Ki Ki and the double Ki , their four bodies side by side in a straight line . 
The Ki Ki had left their musical instruments in the palace , and now wore yellow gloves with green stitching down the backs and swung gold headed canes jauntily as they walked . 
Following the Ki Ki and the Ki came the prince and Nerle , escorted by the twin captains , and then there were files of twin soldiers bringing up the rear . 
By and by they reached the great wall surrounding the High Ki's palace , and , sure enough , there was never a gate in the wall by which any might enter . 
Then the old men began ascending the steps carefully and slowly , and the captains motioned to the prisoners to follow . 
So Prince Marvel followed one of the Ki up the steps and Nerle the other Ki , while the two Ki Ki came behind them so they could not escape . 
Also , there were several double statuettes on pedestals , and double fountains sending exactly the same sprays of water the same distance into the air . 
Double walks ran in every direction through the garden , and in the center of the inclosure stood a magnificent twin palace , built of blocks of white marble exquisitely carved . 
The Ki and the Ki Ki at once led their prisoners toward the palace and entered at its large arched double doors , where several pairs of servants met them . 
These servants , they found , were all dumb , so that should they escape from the palace walls they could tell no tales of the High Ki . 
And on the thrones were seated two of the sweetest and fairest little maidens that mortal man had ever beheld . 
Upon their heads were set two crowns of fine spun gold , worked into fantastic shapes and set with glittering gems . 
Their robes were soft silks of pale yellow , with strings of sparkling emeralds for ornament . 
Anything so lovely and fascinating as these little maids , who were precisely alike in every particular , neither Prince Marvel nor Nerle had ever dreamed could exist . 
They stood for a time spellbound and filled with admiration , while the two pairs of rulers bowed again and again before the dainty and lovable persons of their High Ki . 
The Rebellion of the High Ki The bold speech of Nerle's made the two damsels laugh at the same time , and their sweet laughter sounded like rippling strains of harmonious music . 
But the two Ki Ki frowned angrily , and the two Ki looked at the boy in surprise , as if wondering at his temerity . 
Perhaps , then , the strangers can answer themselves , said the little maids , smiling first upon the Ki Ki and then upon the prisoners . 
I am from the great outside world , said he , and my name is Prince Marvel . 
Until now I have never seen people that live in pairs , and speak in unison , and act in the same way and think the same thoughts . 
My world is much bigger than your world , and in it every person is proud to think and act for himself . 
You say I am only a 'half , but that is not so . 
I am perfect , without a counterpart my friend Nerle is perfect without a counterpart , and it is yourselves who are halved . 
For in the Land of Twi no person is complete or perfect without its other half , and it seems to take two of you to make one man or one maid . 
The sweet faces of the twin High Ki grew thoughtful at this speech , and they said Indeed , it may be you are right . 
But it is our custom in Twi to do everything double and to live double . 
But here the Ki Ki spoke up quickly in their mild voices , saying That is not our idea , your Highnesses . 
We , the Ki Ki of Twi , think it best the strangers should be put to death . 
And we pray your Supreme Highnesses to favor our wish . 
The two little maids looked from the Ki to the Ki Ki , and frowned and pouted their rosy lips in evident perplexity . 
But Nerle whispered to Prince Marvel It's all up with us ! I know very well why her royal doublets always favors the Ki Ki . 
It's because they are young and handsome , while the Ki are old and ugly . 
Let us have your decision at once ! And the twin maidens raised their fair heads and replied . 
But the reply was of such a nature that both the old Ki and both the young Ki Ki staggered backward in amazement . 
Never before had any two halves of a twin of the Land of Twi thought differently or spoken differently . 
The faces of the two maids flushed as they gazed upon each other . 
How DARE you contradict me ? asked one . 
How dare you contradict ME ? demanded the other , and not only were these questions asked separately , but the accent on the words was different . 
And their twin minds seemed to get farther apart every moment . 
I'm the High Ki of Twi ! said one . 
You're not ! I'M the High Ki ! retorted the other . 
The strangers shall die ! snapped one . 
They shall live ! cried the other . 
It's not ! MY will is supreme , returned the other twin . 
The bald heads of the ancient Ki were bobbing in amazement , first to one maid and then toward the other . 
The blond hairs of the two Ki Ki were standing almost on end , and their eyes stared straight before them as if stupefied with astonishment . 
Nerle was bellowing with rude laughter and holding his sides to keep from getting a stitch in them , while Prince Marvel stood quietly attentive and smiling with genuine amusement . 
For he alone understood what had happened to separate the twin High Ki . 
The girls did not seem to know how to act under their altered conditions . 
After a time one of them said We will leave our dispute to be settled by the Ki and the Ki Ki . 
Very well , agreed the other . 
Then I say your half is right , declared the Ki Ki , both their right forefingers pointing to the maiden who had condemned the strangers to death . 
And I decide that your half is right , exclaimed the Ki , both their trembling forefingers pointing to the maiden who had said the strangers should live . 
Well ? said one girl . 
Well ? said the other . 
The powers of the Ki and the Ki Ki are equal , said the first . 
We are no nearer a settlement of our dispute than we were before . 
My dear young ladies , said Prince Marvel , politely , I beg you will take time to think the matter over , and see if you can not come to an agreement . 
We are in no hurry . 
Very well , decided the twins , speaking both together this time . 
We command you all to remain in the palace until we have settled our own strange dispute . 
The servants will care for you , and when we are ready to announce our decision we shall again send for you . 
The Separation of the High Ki For nearly a week Prince Marvel and Nerle remained confined to the palace and gardens of the High Ki . 
Together with the twin Ki , who seemed to be friendly to them , they occupied one of the twin palaces , while the Ki Ki secluded themselves in the other . 
There was no way for them to escape , had they felt inclined to , for the silver steps had disappeared . 
Are you nervous about the decision of the pretty High Ki ? asked Nerle one day . 
No , indeed , said the prince , laughing for I do not expect them to kill me , in any event . 
If I felt as sure of my safety , returned the boy , it would destroy all my pleasure . 
These are really happy days for me . 
Every moment I expect to see the executioner arrive with his ax . 
The executioner is double , said the two old Ki , breaking into the conversation . 
You should say you expect to see the executioners arrive with their axes . 
Then how will they cut off my head with two axes ? For I suppose they will both chop at the same time , and I have but one neck . 
Wait and see , answered the two Ki , sighing deeply and rubbing their red noses thoughtfully . 
Oh , I'll wait , answered the boy but as for seeing them cut off my head , I refuse for I intend to shut my eyes . 
Even the Ki were puzzled and anxious , until the girl said My other half and I have completely separated , for we have agreed to disagree for all time . 
And she has gone to ask the Ki Ki to assist her , for war is declared between us . 
And hereafter her color is to be the green and mine the yellow , and we intend to fight until one of us conquers and overthrows the other . 
It is against the law . 
I will make my own laws when I have won the fight , returned the girl , with a lovely smile so do not let that bother you . 
And now tell me , will you help me to fight my battles ? Willingly ! exclaimed Nerle and Prince Marvel , almost as if they had been twins of Twi . 
By and by the Ki came back with both faces sad and gloomy . 
Your Highness , they announced , we have bad news for you . 
The other High Ki , who is wearing a green gown , has been more prompt in action than yourself . 
So we are unable to leave the garden , and presently the army will be here to destroy us . 
This speech pleased Prince Marvel greatly . 
He kissed the little maid's hand respectfully and said Fear nothing , your Highness . 
My friend and I are not so helpless as you think . 
So they remained quietly in the palace the rest of that day , and no one molested them in the least . 
In the evening the girl played and sang for them , and the ancient pair of Ki danced a double shuffle for their amusement that nearly convulsed them with laughter . 
For one danced exactly like the other , and the old men's legs were still very nimble , although their wrinkled faces remained anxiously grave throughout their antics . 
When at last they separated for the night , Prince Marvel alone did not seek his bed there was still some business he wished to transact . 
These were all three his especial friends , and he soon told them the story of the quarrel and separation of the twin High Ki , and claimed their assistance . 
Then he told them how they might aid him , and afterward dismissed them . 
Having thus accomplished his task , the fairy prince went to bed and slept peacefully the remainder of the night . 
The Rescue of the High Ki After several days of siege Prince Marvel began to feel less confident of the safety of his little party . 
But Prince Marvel realized that the perseverance of his foes might win in the end , unless he took measures to defeat them effectually . 
The prince did not tell his friends of this action , but after the messengers had been dispatched he felt easier in his mind . 
The little High Ki remained as sweet and brave and lovable as ever , striving constantly to cheer and encourage her little band of defenders . 
Nerle wanted to fight , and to slay as many of the Twi people as possible but the prince would not let him . 
These poor soldiers are but doing what they consider their duty , he said , and it would be cruel to cut them down with our swords . 
Have patience , I pray you . 
Our triumph will come in good time . 
The Ki Ki , who came into the palace accompanied by the green High Ki , ordered the twin soldiers to bind all the prisoners with cords . 
So one pair of soldiers bound the Ki and another pair Nerle and the prince , using exactly the same motions in the operation . 
But when it came to binding the yellow High Ki the scene was very funny . 
But it seemed impossible for one of the twins to do anything different from the other , so that was the only way the act could be accomplished . 
Had you remained faithful to our handsome Ki Ki , as I did , you would not now be defeated and disgraced . 
There is no disgrace in losing one battle , returned the other girl , proudly . 
You are mistaken if you think you have conquered me , and you are wrong to insult one who is , for the time being , your captive . 
The maiden in green looked for an instant confused and ashamed then she tossed her pretty head and walked away . 
They led all the prisoners out into the garden and then through the broken wall , and up and down the silver steps , into the great square of the cities of Twi . 
Let the executioners come forward ! cried the Ki Ki , gleefully , and in answer to the command the twin executioners stepped up to the prisoners . 
They were big men , these executioners , each having a squint in one eye and a scar on the left cheek . 
And do not be afraid , for the blows will only hurt you an instant . 
In the Land of Twi it is usually considered a pleasure to be executed by us , we are so exceedingly skillful . 
I can well believe that , replied Nerle , although his teeth were chattering . 
But at this instant a loud shout was heard , and the twin people of Twi all turned their heads to find themselves surrounded by throngs of fierce enemies . 
The Reunion of the High Ki The twins of Twi were too startled and amazed to offer to fight with the odd people surrounding them . 
Even the executioners allowed their axes to fall harmlessly to the ground , and the double people , soldiers and citizens alike , turned to stare at the strangers in wonder . 
We're here , Prince ! yelled Wul Takim , his bristly beard showing over the heads of those who stood between . 
Thank you , answered Prince Marvel . 
And the men of Spor are here ! added King Terribus , who was mounted on a fine milk white charger , richly caparisoned . 
I thank the men of Spor , returned Prince Marvel , graciously . 
They are usually good and loyal subjects , and if they fought against me their lawful High Ki it was only because they were misled by my separation from my other half . 
That is true , replied the prince and as you are still the lawful High Ki of Twi , I will leave you to deal with your own people as you see fit . 
For those who have conquered your people are but your own allies , and are still under your orders , as I am myself . 
Hearing this , the green High Ki walked up to her twin High Ki and said , boldly I am your prisoner . 
It is now your turn . 
Do with me as you will . 
I forgive you , replied her sister , in kindly tones . 
Then the little maid who had met with defeat gave a sob and turned away weeping , for she had expected anything but forgiveness . 
Yet the captains only obeyed your orders , returned the High Ki . 
So I hold them blameless . 
And what is to become of us now ? asked the former Ki Ki . 
You will belong to the common people , and earn your living playing tunes for them to dance by , answered the High Ki . 
And at this retort every one laughed , so that the handsome youths turned away with twin scowls upon their faces and departed amidst the jeers of the crowd . 
Better hang 'em to a tree , little one , shouted Wul Takim , in his big voice they won't enjoy life much , anyhow . 
But the maid shook her pretty head and turned to the prince . 
Will you stay here and help me to rule my kingdom ? she asked . 
I can not do that , replied Prince Marvel , for I am but a wandering adventurer and must soon continue my travels . 
But I believe you will be able to rule your people without my help . 
It is not so easy a task , she answered , sighing . 
For I am singular and my people are all double . 
Well , let us hold a meeting in your palace , said the prince , and then we can decide what is best to be done . 
The green High Ki followed them , still weeping disconsolately . 
Said Prince Marvel Your Highness , I alone can explain why you became separated from your twin . 
By means of a fairy enchantment , which I learned years ago , I worked upon you a spell , which compelled your brain to work independent of your sister's brain . 
I can also work the spell upon all the twin animals , said the prince , after a moment's hesitation . 
And all our houses are built double , with twin doors and windows and chimneys , to accommodate our twin people , continued the High Ki . 
And the trees and flowers and even the blades of grass are all double . 
And our roads are double , and and everything else is double . 
Why not leave the country as it is ? asked King Terribus of Spor . 
But I love my country , and do not wish to leave it , answered the yellow High Ki . 
And I love my twin sister , and regret that our minds have become separated , she continued , sadly . 
I have it ! exclaimed Nerle . 
The yellow High Ki clapped her pink hands with delight and looked eagerly at the prince . 
Will you ? she asked . 
Will you please reunite us ? And then all our troubles will be ended ! This really seemed to Marvel the best thing to be done . 
Had not their masters arrived at the right moment there would certainly have been a fierce battle and much bloodshed , and all over something of no importance . 
There was great rejoicing at this news , for every twin in Twi was glad to have his troubles ended so easily and satisfactorily . 
And when our friends called upon the High Ki the next morning they found the two maids again dressed exactly alike in yellow robes , with strings of sparkling emeralds for ornament . 
And not even Prince Marvel could now tell one of the High Ki from the other . 
As for the maids themselves , it seemed difficult to imagine they had ever existed apart for a single moment . 
If we see other kingdoms and people we shall be better able to rule our own wisely . 
That seems reasonable , answered Marvel , and I shall be very glad to have you accompany me . 
But who will rule the Land of Twi in your absence ? The Ki Ki shall be the rulers , answered the High Ki , and we will take the Ki with us . 
Then I will delay my departure until to morrow morning , said the prince , in order that your Highnesses may have time to prepare for the journey . 
Wul Takim also begged to join the party , and so also did King Terribus , who had never before been outside of his own Kingdom of Spor so Prince Marvel willingly consented . 
In the morning Prince Marvel led his own gay cavalcade through the hole in the hedge , and they rode merrily away in search of adventure . 
By his side were the High Ki , mounted upon twin chestnut ponies that had remarkably slender limbs and graceful , arched necks . 
The ponies moved with exactly the same steps , and shook their manes and swished their tails at exactly the same time . 
Behind the prince and the High Ki were King Terribus , riding his great white charger , and Wul Takim on a stout horse of jet black color . 
The two ancient Ki and Nerle , being of lesser rank than the others , brought up the rear . 
I think it is right you should do that , replied Prince Marvel . 
Yet I do not regret that I cut a hole in your hedge . 
All is well that ends well ! laughed the prince . 
You certainly came in good time to rescue us from our difficulties . 
They turned into a path that led to Auriel , which Nerle had heard spoken of as the Kingdom of the Setting Sun . 
Soon the landscape grew very pleasant to look upon , the meadows being broad and green , with groups of handsome trees standing about . 
The twilight of the Land of Twi was now replaced by bright sunshine , and in the air was the freshness of the near by sea . 
At evening they came to a large farmhouse , where the owner welcomed them hospitably and gave them the best his house afforded . 
In answer to their questions about the Kingdom of Auriel , he shook his head sadly and replied It is a rich and beautiful country , but has fallen under great misfortunes . 
So every one is now very poor and unhappy , and that is a great pity in a country so fair and fertile . 
But why do not the people rebel ? asked Nerle . 
They dare not rebel , answered the farmer , because they fear the sorcery of Kwytoffle . 
If they do not obey him he threatens to change them into grasshoppers and June bugs . 
Has he ever changed any one into a grasshopper or a June bug ? asked Prince Marvel . 
No but the people are too frightened to oppose him , and so he does not get the opportunity . 
And he has an army of fierce soldiers , who are accustomed to beat the people terribly if they do not carry every bit of their wealth to the sorcerer . 
So there is no choice but to obey him . 
We certainly ought to hang this wicked creature ! exclaimed Wul Takim . 
I wish I had brought my Fool Killer with me , sighed King Terribus for I could have kept him quite busy in this kingdom . 
Can not something be done to rescue these poor people from their sad fate ? asked the lovely High Ki , anxiously . 
We will make a call upon this Kwytoffle to morrow , answered Prince Marvel , and see what the fellow is like . 
Before noon they came upon the edge of a forest , where a poor man was chopping logs into firewood . 
Because this one leads to the castle of the great sorcerer , Kwytoffle , answered the man . 
But there is where we wish to go , said Marvel . 
What ! You wish to go there ? cried the man . 
Then you will be robbed and enslaved ! Not as long as we are able to fight , laughed the big Wul Takim . 
If you resist the sorcerer , you will be turned into grasshoppers and June bugs , declared the man , staring at them in wonder . 
How do you know that ? asked Marvel . 
He promises to enchant every one who dares defy his power . 
Has any one ever yet dared defy him ? asked Nerle . 
Certainly not ! said the man . 
No one wishes to become a June bug or a grasshopper . 
No one dares defy him . 
I am anxious to see this sorcerer , exclaimed King Terribus . 
He ought to prove an interesting person , for he is able to accomplish his purposes by threats alone . 
Then let us ride on , said Marvel . 
Dear us ! Dear us ! remonstrated the bald headed Ki are we to become grasshoppers , then ? We shall see , returned the prince , briefly . 
With your long legs , added the pretty pair of High Ki , laughingly , you ought to be able to jump farther than any other grasshopper in the kingdom . 
Then , with a shout of rage , he rushed toward them and caught Prince Marvel's horse by the bridle . 
He was short and very fat , and had a face like a puff ball , with little red eyes and scarcely any nose at all . 
In his right hand he carried a small black wand , and around his neck hung a silver whistle on a silver cord . 
For if you do not treat us more respectfully , I shall have you flogged . 
What ! Flog me ! shouted Kwytoffle , furiously . 
Will you have it now ? and he raised his riding whip above his head . 
Kwytoffle stumbled backward a few paces and blew shrilly upon his silver whistle . 
Arrest these strangers ! commanded Kwytoffle , in a voice like a roar . 
Who cares ? roared the sorcerer . 
We care , said the captain , giving a shudder , as he looked upon the strangers . 
Their swords are sharp , and some of us would get hurt . 
You're cowards ! shrieked the enraged Kwytoffle . 
Bah ! cried Nerle , scornfully why don't you fight ? If we kill you , then you will escape being June bugs . 
The fact is , said the captain , woefully , we simply can't fight . 
For our swords are only tin , and our axes are made of wood , with silver paper pasted over them . 
But why is that ? asked Wul Takim , while all the party showed their surprise . 
Why , until now we have never had any need to fight , said the captain , for every one has quickly surrendered to us or run away the moment we came near . 
I will ! I will ! cried the sorcerer . 
Then why don't you begin ? inquired the prince . 
Why don't I begin ? Why , I haven't got the enchantments with me , that's why . 
Do you suppose we great magicians carry around enchantments in our pockets ? returned the other , in a milder tone . 
Where do you keep your enchantments ? asked the prince . 
They're in my dwelling , snapped Kwytoffle , taking off his hat and fanning his fat face with the brim . 
Then go and get them , said Marvel . 
Nonsense ! If I went to get the enchantments you would all run away ! retorted the sorcerer . 
Not so ! protested Nerle , who was beginning to be amused . 
My greatest longing in life is to become a grasshopper . 
Oh , yes ! PLEASE let us be grasshoppers ! exclaimed the High Ki maids in the same breath . 
We want to hop ! We want to hop ! Please PLEASE let us hop ! implored the bald headed Ki , winking their left eyes at Wul Takim . 
Isn't that so , boys ? The bewildered soldiers looked at one another in perplexity , and the still more bewildered sorcerer gazed on the speakers with staring eyes and wide open mouth . 
I insist , said Prince Marvel , upon your turning us into grasshoppers and your soldiers into June bugs , as you promised . 
If you do not , then I will flog you as I promised . 
Very well , returned the sorcerer , with a desperate look upon his face I'll go and find the enchantment . 
And we'll go with you , remarked the prince , pleasantly . 
So the entire party accompanied Kwytoffle into the house , where they entered a large room that was in a state of much disorder . 
Let me see , said the sorcerer , rubbing his ears , as if trying to think I wonder if I put them in this cupboard . 
No , it's not in the cupboard , he continued , looking there but it surely must be in this chest . 
It was not in the chest , either , and so the sorcerer continued to look in all sorts of queer places for his book of enchantments , without finding it . 
Whenever he paused in his search Prince Marvel would say , sternly Go on ! Find the book ! Hunt it up . 
We are all anxious to become grasshoppers . 
And then Kwytoffle would set to work again , although big drops of perspiration were now streaming down his face . 
Finally he pulled an old book from underneath the pillow of his bed , and crying , Here it is ! carried it to the window . 
How about the June bugs ? asked Nerle . 
The June bug mixture can only be made at the dark o' the moon , said the sorcerer , pretending to read , and that is three weeks from now . 
Let me read it , said Prince Marvel , suddenly snatching the book from Kwytoffle's hands . 
Then he turned to the title page and read 'Lives of Famous Thieves and Impostors . 
Why , this is not a book of enchantments . 
That is what I suspected , said Terribus . 
Is your own history written in this volume ? inquired Marvel . 
No , answered the sorcerer . 
Then it ought to be , said the prince , for you are no sorcerer at all , but merely a thief and an impostor ! . 
However , they tied the false sorcerer to a post , and the captain gave him a good whipping one lash for each letter in the words grasshopper and June bug . 
Kwytoffle howled loudly for mercy , but no one was at all sorry for him . 
This adventure was very amusing to the pretty High Ki of Twi . 
It afforded them laughter for many days , and none of the party ever saw a grasshopper or a june bug afterward without thinking of the terrible sorcerer Kwytoffle . 
They left that disgraced person grooming horses for his board in the stables of the new king , and proceeded upon their journey . 
Without further event they reached the splendid southern Kingdom of Plenta , which was the most delightfully situated of any dominion in the Enchanted Island of Yew . 
It was ruled by a good and generous queen , who welcomed the strangers to her palace and gave a series of gay entertainments in their honor . 
King Terribus was especially an object of interest , for every one had heard his name and feared him and his fierce people . 
But the most popular personages visiting at the court of the Queen of Plenta were the lovely High Ki of Twi . 
Although beautiful girls abounded in this kingdom , none could compare with the royal twins , and their peculiar condition only served to render them the more interesting . 
But if one youth asked his partner a question , both the twins would make answer , and that was sure to confuse and embarrass the youth . 
The bald headed Ki kept watchful eyes on their youthful rulers , and served them very cheerfully . 
But with all their travels and experiences , the old men could never be convinced it was better to be singular than double . 
Prince Marvel was the real hero of the party , and Nerle received much attention on account of his master's popularity . 
As for the pleasure of suffering , he had had some experience of that , too , and it was not nearly so delightful as he had expected . 
And so the party enjoyed several happy weeks at the court of the good Queen of Plenta , until one day the terrible news arrived that carried them once more into exciting adventures . 
Then have I reached my journey's end ! said the courier , whose horse was nearly exhausted from long and hard riding . 
The Lady Seseley is in great danger , and sends for you to come and rescue her . 
The great Baron Merd , her father , has been killed and his castle destroyed , and all his people are either captives or have been slain outright . 
And who has done this evil thing ? asked Prince Marvel , looking very stern and grave . 
The Red Rogue of Dawna , answered the messenger . 
He quarreled with the Baron Merd and sent his savage hordes to tear down his castle and slay him . 
And so I will ! declared the prince , if she be still alive . 
Who is this Lady Seseley ? asked Nerle , who had come to his master's side . 
She is my first friend , to whom I owe my very existence . 
It is her image , together with those of her two friends , which is graven on my shield , answered Prince Marvel , thoughtfully . 
And what will you do ? inquired the esquire . 
I must go to her at once . 
When they heard of his mission all the party insisted on accompanying him . 
Even the dainty High Ki could not be deterred by any thoughts of dangers they might encounter and after some discussion Prince Marvel allowed them to join him . 
Prince Marvel knew little concerning this personage , but Nerle had much to tell of him . 
The Red Rogue had once been page to a wise scholar and magician , who lived in a fine old castle in Dawna and ruled over a large territory . 
The boy was very small and weak smaller even than the average dwarf and his master did not think it worth while to watch him . 
Then the boy took his master's book of magic and found a recipe to make one grow . 
He made the mixture and swallowed it , and straightway began to grow big and tall . 
This greatly delighted him , until he found he was getting much bigger than the average man and rapidly becoming a giant . 
There was nothing in the book of magic to make one grow smaller , so he was obliged to remain as he was the largest man in the Enchanted Island . 
All this had happened in a single night . 
The morning after his master's murder the page announced himself lord of the castle and , seeing his enormous size , none dared deny his right to rule . 
And after his evil deeds and quarrelsome temper had made him infamous throughout the island , people began to call him the Red Rogue of Dawna . 
How many of them are there ? demanded the Red Rogue . 
There are eight , altogether , answered the man , but two of them are girls . 
And they expect to force me to give up my captives ? asked the Red One , laughing with a noise like the roar of a waterfall . 
It was he who conquered King Terribus of Spor , and that mighty ruler is now his friend , and is one of the eight who approach . 
The Red Rogue stopped laughing , for the fame of Spor's terrible king had long ago reached him . 
And he reflected that any one who could conquer the army of giants and dwarfs and Gray Men that served Terribus must surely be one to be regarded seriously . 
So he was accustomed to rely on his cunning and on the terror his very presence usually excited to triumph over his enemies . 
And he began to be afraid of this prince . 
You say two of the party are girls ? he asked . 
And there are two old men who are just alike and have a very fierce look about them . 
They are said to come from the hidden Kingdom of Twi . 
By this time the Red Rogue was thoroughly frightened , but he did not yet despair of defeating his enemies . 
He knew better than to attempt to oppose Prince Marvel by force , but he still hoped to conquer him by trickery and deceit . 
Heavy curtains were drawn over the surfaces of these mirrors , because they both possessed a dreadful magical power . 
While considering a way to prevent the prince from freeing the Lady Seseley , the Red Rogue happened to think of these mirrors , which had never yet been used . 
So he went stealthily into the great hall and drew aside the covering from one of the mirrors . 
The girls at once obeyed , for they greatly feared the Red Rogue and of course they descended the front stairway and walked through the great hall . 
At once the large mirror that had been exposed to view caught the eye of Seseley , and she paused to regard her reflection in the glass . 
Her two companions did likewise , and instantly all three girls became invisible , while the mirror held their reflections fast in its magic surface . 
I come to demand the release of the Lady Seseley and her companions ! Prince Marvel announced , in a bold voice . 
And I also intend to call you to account for the murder of Baron Merd . 
You must be at the wrong castle , answered the Red One , for I have murdered no baron , nor have I any Lady Seseley as prisoner . 
Are you not the Red Rogue of Dawna ? demanded the prince . 
Men call me by that name , acknowledged the other . 
Then you are deceiving me , said the prince . 
No , indeed ! answered the Red Rogue , mockingly . 
I wouldn't deceive any one for the world . 
But , if you don't believe me , you are welcome to search my castle . 
That I shall do , returned the prince , sternly , whether I have your permission or not , and he began to dismount . 
But Nerle restrained him , saying Master , I beg you will allow me to search the castle . 
But suppose something should happen to you ? inquired the prince , anxiously . 
In that case , said Nerle , you can avenge me . 
The advice was so reasonable , under the circumstances , that the prince decided to act upon it . 
Very well , said he , go and search the castle , and I will remain with our friends . 
But if anything happens to you , I shall call the Red Rogue to account . 
So Nerle entered the castle , passing by the huge form of its owner , who only nodded to the boy and grinned with delight . 
The esquire found himself in the great hall and began to look around him , but without seeing any one . 
Why , here they are ! he attempted to say but he could not hear his own voice . 
He glanced down at himself but could see nothing at all for his body had become invisible . 
After waiting a considerable time for his esquire to reappear Prince Marvel became impatient . 
What have you done with Nerle ? he asked of the Red Rogue . 
Nothing , was the reply . 
I have been here , plainly within your sight , every moment . 
Let me go and find him ! exclaimed King Terribus , and rushed into the castle before the prince could reply . 
But Terribus also encountered the enchanted mirror , and the prince waited in vain for his return . 
Then Wul Takim volunteered to go in search of the others , and drew his big , sharp sword before entering the hall . 
But an hour passed by and he did not return . 
The Red Rogue was overjoyed at the success of his stratagem , and could scarce refrain from laughing outright at the prince's anxiety . 
He knew some treachery was afoot , but could not imagine what it was . 
And when the pretty High Ki declared their intention of entering the castle , he used every endeavor to dissuade them . 
But the twin girls would not be denied , so great was their curiosity . 
So the prince said Well , we will all go together , so that the Ki and I may be able to protect you . 
The Red Rogue gladly granted them admittance , and they passed him and entered the great hall . 
The place appeared to them to be completely empty , so they walked along and came opposite the mirror . 
And there were also the reflections of the twin High Ki and the twin Ki . 
Only Prince Marvel's reflection was missing , and this was because of his fairy origin . 
For the glass could reflect and hold only the forms of mortals . 
But the prince saw the reflections of all the others , and then made the discovery that the forms of the Ki and the High Ki had become invisible . 
The mystery was now explained , and Prince Marvel rushed from the hall to find the treacherous Red Rogue . 
But that clever trickster had hidden himself in an upper room , and for the present was safely concealed . 
For a time Prince Marvel could not think what to do . 
Such magic was all unknown to him , and how to free the imprisoned forms of his friends was a real problem . 
He walked around the castle , but no one was in sight , the Rogue having given orders to all his people to keep away . 
Only the tethered horses did he see , and these raised their heads and whinnied as if in sympathy with his perplexity . 
Then he went back into the hall and searched all the rooms of the castle without finding a single person . 
On his return he stopped in front of the mirror and sorrowfully regarded the faces of his friends , who again seemed to plead for relief . 
And while he looked a sudden fit of anger came over him at being outwitted by this Red Rogue of Dawna . 
Scarcely knowing what he did , he seized his sword by the blade and struck the mirror a powerful blow with the heavy hilt . 
It shattered into a thousand fragments , which fell clattering upon the stone floor in every direction . 
And at once the charm was broken each of his friends now became visible . 
They appeared running toward him from all parts of the castle , where they had been wandering in their invisible forms . 
They called out joyful greetings to one another , and then all of them surrounded the prince and thanked him earnestly for releasing them . 
The sweet little High Ki maids at once attracted Seseley , and she loved them almost at first sight . 
While they stood talking and congratulating one another outside of the castle , the Red Rogue of Dawna appeared among them . 
But the prince was not taken unawares . 
He saw the Red Rogue coming and met him with drawn sword , striking quickly at the arm that wielded the big ax . 
The stroke was as sure as it was quick , and piercing the arm of the giant caused him to drop the ax with a howl of pain . 
But down the hall Marvel marched him , seeking some room where the Rogue might be safely locked in . 
The Red Rogue looked to see what his captor was doing , and beheld his own reflection in the magic mirror . 
Instantly he gave a wild cry and disappeared , his body becoming absolutely invisible , while his coarse red countenance stared back from the mirror . 
And then Prince Marvel gave a sigh of relief and dropped the curtain over the surface of the mirror . 
For he realized that the Red Rogue of Dawna had at last met with just punishment and was safely imprisoned for all time . 
The Adventurers Separate When Prince Marvel and his friends had ridden away from the castle the savage followers of the Red One came creeping up to listen for their master's voice . 
The prince and his party rode gaily along toward the Kingdom of Heg , for Nerle had invited them all to visit his father's castle . 
They were very happy over their escape , and only the little Lady Seseley became sad at times , when she thought of her father's sad fate . 
Nerle was eagerly embraced by both his father and mother , who were overjoyed to see him return safe and sound after his wanderings and adventures . 
And have you been cured of your longing for something that you can not have ? asked the baron , anxiously . 
Not quite , said Nerle , laughing but I am more reconciled to my lot . 
For I find wherever I go people are longing for just the things they can not get , and probably would not want if they had them . 
So , as it seems to be the fate of most mortals to live unsatisfied , I shall try hereafter to be more contented . 
These words delighted the good baron , and he gave a rich and magnificent feast in honor of his son's return . 
So the baron furnished them an escort of twenty men at arms , and these conducted the High Ki and the aged Ki safely back to the hole in the hedge . 
So its subsequent history is unknown . 
Nerle's mother gladly adopted the Lady Seseley and her two companions , and thereafter they made their home at the baron's castle . 
And years afterward , when they had grown to be women , Seseley was married to Nerle and became the lady of the castle herself . 
Nerle often regarded his young master with a feeling of awe , for there occasionally came a look into Marvel's eyes that reminded him more of the immortals than of any human being . 
But the prince treated him with rare kindness and always pressed Nerle's hand affectionately when he bade him good night , for he had grown fond of his esquire . 
Also they had long conversations together , during which Nerle gleaned a great deal of knowledge and received some advice that was of much use to him in his later life . 
He guided them carefully along the paths , his handsome war charger stepping with much grace and dignity , until at length they came to a clearing . 
Here the prince paused abruptly , and Seseley looked around her and at once recognized the place . 
The End of the Year The girls sat upon the green moss and waited . 
Prince Marvel stood silent beside his horse . 
The silver armor was as bright as the day he donned it , nor was there a dent in his untarnished shield . 
The sword that had done such good service he held lightly in his hand , and the horse now and then neighed softly and turned to look at him with affectionate eyes . 
Seseley began to tremble with excitement , and Berna and Helda stared at the prince with big round eyes . 
But , after all , they saw nothing so remarkable as they expected . 
On the ground lay a sheet of bark and a twig from a tree , and beside them was Lady Seseley's white velvet cloak . 
Before them stood a tiny and very beautiful fairy , clothed in floating gossamer robes of rose and pearl color , and with eyes sparkling like twin stars . 
Prince Marvel ! exclaimed the three , together . 
No , indeed ! cried the fairy , with a pretty little pout . 
I am no one but myself and , really , I believe I shall now be content to exist for a few hundred years in my natural form . 
I have quite enjoyed my year as a mortal but after all there are , I find , some advantages in being a fairy . 
Good by , my dears ! And with another ripple of laughter the pretty creature vanished , and the girls were left alone . 
A Hundred Years Afterward About a hundred years after Prince Marvel enjoyed his strange adventures in the Enchanted Island of Yew an odd thing happened . 
A hidden mirror in a crumbling old castle of Dawna broke loose from its fastenings and fell crashing on the stone pavement of the deserted hall . 
And from amid the ruins rose the gigantic form of a man . 
His hair and beard were a fiery red , and he gazed at the desolation around him in absolute amazement . 
It was the Red Rogue of Dawna , set free from his imprisonment . 
He wandered out and found strange scenes confronting him , for during the hundred years a great change had taken place in the Enchanted Island . 
Great cities had been built and great kingdoms established . 
Civilization had won the people , and they no longer robbed or fought or indulged in magical arts , but were busily employed and leading respectable lives . 
When the Red Rogue tried to tell folks who he was , they but laughed at him , thinking the fellow crazy . 
He tried to get together a band of thieves , as Wul Takim had done in the old days , but none would join him . 
