And through the wide windows we had a view of the Thames an enfilading view down the Lower Hope Reach . 
But the dinner was exe crable , and all the feast was for the eyes . 
That flavour of salt water which for so many of us had been the very water of life permeated our talk . 
He who hath known the bitterness of the Ocean shall have its taste forever in his mouth . 
But one or two of us , pampered by the life of the land , complained of hunger . 
It was impossible to swal low any of that stuff . 
And indeed there was a strange mustiness in everything . 
So , comparatively empty , but upon the whole fairly happy , we sat back and told our artless tales . 
We talked of the sea and all its works . 
The sea never changes , and its works for all the talk of men are wrapped in mystery . 
But we agreed that the times were changed . 
And now and then falling silent all together we gazed at the sights of the river . 
A P. O. boat passed bound down . 
One gets jolly good dinners on board these ships , remarked one of our band . 
A man with sharp eyes read out the name on her bows Arcadia . 
What a beauti ful model of a ship ! murmured some of us . 
She was followed by a small cargo steamer , and the flag they hauled down aboard while we were looking showed her to be a Norwegian . 
German I should think , muttered one . 
It was also the capital of an Eastern king dom , lying up a river as might be London lies up this old Thames of ours . 
And the absurdity of the episode concerns only me , my enemy Falk , and my friend Hermann . 
to say idly and nonchalantly And was this Hermann a hero ? Not at all , said our grizzled friend . 
He was a Schiff fuhrer Ship conductor . 
That's how they call a Master Mariner in Germany . 
With his shaven chin , round limbs , and heavy eyelids he did not look like a toiler , and even less like an adventurer of the sea . 
Still , he toiled upon the seas , in his own way , much as a shopkeeper works behind his counter . 
And his ship was the means by which he maintained his growing family . 
She was a heavy , strong , blunt bowed affair , awakening the ideas of primitive solidity , like the wooden plough of our forefathers . 
And there were , about her , other suggestions of a rustic and homely nature . 
The extraordinary timber projections which I have seen in no other vessel made her square stern resemble the tail end of a miller's waggon . 
The tiny white cur tains and the greenery of flower pots behind the glass completed the resemblance . 
This , however , sprang up later on . 
Meantime in common with the rest of the shipping in that East ern port , I was left in no doubt as to Hermann's no tions of hygienic clothing . 
Evidently he believed in wearing good stout flannel next his skin . 
It covered the poop entirely . 
The after noon breeze would incite to a weird and flabby activ ity all that crowded mass of clothing , with its vague suggestions of drowned , mutilated and flattened hu manity . 
On these days you could make out that ship at a great distance by the multi coloured grotesque riot going on abaft her mizzen mast . 
She had her berth just ahead of me , and her name was Diana , Diana not of Ephesus but of Bremen . 
They peeped over the rail at passing boats and occasionally dropped various objects into them . 
Thus , sometime before I knew Hermann to speak to , I received on my hat a horrid rag doll belonging to Hermann's eldest daughter . 
However , these youngsters were upon the whole well behaved . 
They had fair heads , round eyes , round little knobby noses , and they resembled their father a good deal . 
And the sentiments she sug gested were unexceptionable and mainly of a do mestic order . 
All these dear chil dren had learned to walk on her roomy quarter deck . 
In such thoughts there is something pretty , even touching . 
Their teeth , I should judge , they had cut on the ends of her running gear . 
en gaged in gnawing the whipping of the fore royal brace . 
Nicholas' favourite place of residence was under the main fife rail . 
I fancy there must have been a standing order to that effect . 
In the course of these transportations the baby , who was the only peppery person in the ship , tried to smite these stalwart young German sailors on the face . 
Mrs. Hermann , an engaging , stout housewife , wore on board baggy blue dresses with white dots . 
Her sleeves would be rolled up to the elbows , and the gold hoop of her wedding ring glittered among the soapsuds . 
Her voice was pleasant , she had a serene brow , smooth bands of very fair hair , and a good humoured expression of the eyes . 
She was motherly and moderately talka tive . 
When this simple matron smiled , youthful dimples broke out on her fresh broad cheeks . 
Her mann's niece on the other hand , an orphan and very silent , I never saw attempt a smile . 
This , however , was not gloom on her part but the restraint of youthful gravity . 
They had carried her about with them for the last three years , to help with the children and be company for Mrs. Hermann , as Hermann men tioned once to me . 
It had been very necessary while they were all little , he had added in a vexed manner . 
They fix her in my mind , as great beauty , great intelligence , quickness of wit or kindness of heart might have made some her other woman equally memorable . 
With her it was form and size . 
It was her physi cal personality that had this imposing charm . 
She might have been witty , intelligent , and kind to an exceptional degree . 
I don't know , and this is not to the point . 
All I know is that she was built on a magnificent scale . 
Built is the only word . 
She was constructed , she was erected , as it were , with a regal lavishness . 
It staggered you to see this reckless ex penditure of material upon a chit of a girl . 
She was youthful and also perfectly mature , as though she had been some fortunate immortal . 
She was heavy too , perhaps , but that's nothing . 
It only added to that notion of permanence . 
She was bare ly nineteen . 
But what magnificent hair she had ! Abundant , long , thick , of a tawny colour . 
It had the sheen of precious metals . 
She wore it plaited tightly into one single tress hanging girl ishly down her back and its end reached down to her waist . 
The massiveness of it surprised you . 
On my word it reminded one of a club . 
Her face was big , comely , of an unruffled expression . 
She had a good complexion , and her blue eyes were so pale that she appeared to look at the world with the empty white candour of a statue . 
You could not call her good looking . 
It was something much more impressive . 
To watch her reaching up to the clothes line with both arms raised high above her head , caused you to fall a musing in a strain of pagan piety . 
She was inclined naturally to be still whether sit ting or standing . 
However , I don't mean to say she was statuesque . 
She was too generously alive but she could have stood for an allegoric statue of the Earth . 
The worthy Hermann himself was not very en tertaining , though his English was fairly compre hensible . 
I could not un derstand . 
she was a modest and silent presence , mostly en gaged in sewing , only now and then , as I observed , falling over that work into a state of maidenly meditation . 
Her aunt sat opposite her , sewing also , with her feet propped on a wooden footstool . 
I came nearly every evening . 
Hermann I would find in his shirt sleeves . 
Afterwards he smoked at the cabin door , looking at his children with an air of civic virtue , till they got caught one after another and put to bed in various staterooms . 
The sea and all nauti cal affairs seemed very far removed from the hos pitality of this exemplary family . 
And I liked this because I had a rather worrying time on board my own ship . 
It was impossible to say where all that money had gone to . 
There were next to no stores on board , not an inch of spare rope or a yard of canvas . 
The ship had been run bare , and I foresaw no end of difficulties before I could get her ready for sea . 
As I was young then not thirty yet I took myself and my troubles very seriously . 
The old mate , who had acted as chief mourner at the cap tain's funeral , was not particularly pleased at my coming . 
But the fact is the fellow was not legally qualified for command , and the Consul was bound , if at all possible , to put a properly certificated man on board . 
As to the second mate , all I can say his name was Tottersen , or something like that . 
His practice was to wear on his head , in that tropical climate , a mangy fur cap . 
He was , without excep tion , the stupidest man I had ever seen on board ship . 
And he looked it too . 
He looked so con foundedly stupid that it was a matter of surprise for me when he answered to his name . 
I drew no great comfort from their company , to say the least of it while the prospect of making a long sea passage with those two fellows was depress ing . 
And my other thoughts in solitude could not be of a gay complexion . 
Their attitude towards me was unfriendly . 
Altogether I was not getting on . 
He was fully expected to recover , but in the meantime had to be replaced by some sort of servant . 
And on the recommendation of a cer tain Schomberg , the proprietor of the smaller of the two hotels in the place , I engaged a Chinaman . 
Schomberg , a brawny , hairy Alsatian , and an awful gossip , assured me that it was all right . 
Came in the suite of his Excellency Tseng the Commissioner you know . 
His Excel lency Tseng lodged with me here for three weeks . 
He mouthed the Chinese Excellency at me with great unction , though the specimen of the suite did not seem very promising . 
At the time , however , I did not know what an untrustworthy humbug Schomberg was . 
The boy might have been forty or a hundred and forty for all you could tell one of those Chinamen of the death's head type of face and completely inscrutable . 
Before the end of the third day he had revealed himself as a confirmed opium smoker , a gambler , a most audacious thief , and a first class sprinter . 
When he departed at the top of his speed with thirty two golden sovereigns of my own hard earned savings it was the last straw . 
I had reserved that money in case my difficulties came to the worst . 
Now it was gone I felt as poor and naked as a fakir . 
That fellow shut himself up in his stuffy cabin punctually at eight , and made gross and revolting noises like a water logged trump . 
It was odious not to be able to worry oneself in comfort on board one's own ship . 
Everything in this world , I reflected , even the command of a nice little barque , may be made a delusion and a snare for the unwary spirit of pride in man . 
From such reflections I was glad to make any es cape on board that Bremen Diana . 
There appar ently no whisper of the world's iniquities had ever penetrated . 
But that patriarchal old tub , like some saintly retreat , echoed nothing of it . 
Her venerable innocence apparently had put a restraint on the roaring lusts of the sea . 
And yet I have known the sea too long to believe in its respect for decency . 
An elemental force is ruthlessly frank . 
It looked like reti cence . 
This , however , occurred much later , and mean time I took sanctuary in that serene old ship early every evening . 
The only person on board that seemed to be in trouble was little Lena , and in due course I perceived that the health of the rag doll was more than delicate . 
Only the baby Nicholas looked on with a cold , ruffianly leer , as if he had belonged to another tribe altogether . 
Lena perpetually sorrowed over the box , and all of them were in deadly earnest . 
It was wonderful the way these children would work up their compassion for that bedraggled thing I wouldn't have touched with a pair of tongs . 
I suppose they were exercis ing and developing their racial sentimentalism by the means of that dummy . 
I was only surprised that Mrs. Hermann let Lena cherish and hug that bundle of rags to that extent , it was so disreputably and completely unclean . 
Purity , not cleanli ness , is the word . 
It was pushed so far that I seemed to detect in this too a sentimental excess , as if dirt had been removed in very love . 
It is impossible to give you an idea of such a meticulous neatness . 
It was as if every morning that ship had been ardu ously explored with with toothbrushes . 
Her very bowsprit three times a week had its toilette made with a cake of soap and a piece of soft flannel . 
I enjoyed it greatly , and on my part I brought a little mild excitement into it . 
Our intimacy arose from the pursuit of that thief . 
Realising the situation as though he had eyes in his shoulder blades , he joined us with a leap and took the lead . 
The Chinaman fled silent like a rapid shadow on the dust of an extremely oriental road . 
A long way in the rear my mate whooped like a savage . 
A young moon threw a bashful light on a plain like a monstrous waste ground the architectural mass of a Buddhist tem ple far away projected itself in dead black on the sky . 
We lost the thief of course but in my disap pointment I had to admire Hermann's presence of mind . 
The velocity that stodgy man developed in the interests of a complete stranger earned my warm gratitude there was something truly cordial in his exertions . 
He seemed as vexed as myself at our failure , and would hardly listen to my thanks . 
He said it was nothings , and invited me on the spot to come on board his ship and drink a glass of beer with him . 
We poked sceptically for a while amongst the bushes , peered without conviction into a ditch or two . 
There was not a sound patches of slime glim mered feebly amongst the reeds . 
For a long time we had ceased to hear the mate's whoops and yells . 
He didn't like to stay late ashore he added with a sigh . 
The something doleful in his tone I put to his sympathy with my misfortune , of course . 
On board the Diana Mrs. Hermann's fine eyes expressed much interest and commiseration . 
We had found the two women sewing face to face under the open skylight in the strong glare of the lamp . 
I didn't get away till well past midnight , long after the women had retired . 
Hermann had been trading in the East for three years or more , carry ing freights of rice and timber mostly . 
His ship was well known in all the ports from Vladivostok to Singapore . 
She was his own property . 
The profits had been moderate , but the trade answered well enough while the children were small yet . 
In an other year or so he hoped he would be able to sell the old Diana to a firm in Japan for a fair price . 
He intended to return home , to Bremen , by mail boat , second class , with Mrs. Hermann and the children . 
He told me all this stolidly , with slow puffs at his pipe . 
I was sorry when knocking the ashes out he began to rub his eyes . 
I would have sat with him till morning . 
What had I to hurry on board my own ship for ? To face the broken rifled drawer in my state room . 
Ugh ! The very thought made me feel unwell . 
I became their daily guest , as you know . 
I think that Mrs. Hermann from the first looked upon me as a romantic person . 
I did not , of course , tear my hair coram populo over my loss , and she took it for lordly indifference . 
Afterwards , I daresay , I did tell them some of my adventures such as they were and they marvelled greatly at the extent of my experience . 
Hermann would translate what he thought the most striking passages . 
Meantime I sat before a glass of Hermann's beer , trying to look modest . 
Mrs. Her mann would glance at me quickly , emit slight Ach's ! The girl never made a sound . 
But she too would sometimes raise her pale eyes to look at me in her unseeing gentle way . 
Her glance was by no means stupid it beamed out soft and dif fuse as the moon beams upon a landscape quite differently from the scrutinising inspection of the stars . 
You were drowned in it , and imagined your self to appear blurred . 
And yet this same glance when turned upon Christian Falk must have been as efficient as the searchlight of a battle ship . 
Falk was the other assiduous visitor on board , but from his behaviour he might have been coming to see the quarter deck capstan . 
On arrival he would shake Her mann's hand with a mutter , bow to the women , and take up his careless and misanthropic attitude by our side . 
He departed abruptly , with a jump , go ing through the performance of grunts , hand shakes , bow , as if in a panic . 
Sometimes , with a sort of discreet and convulsive effort , he approached the women and exchanged a few low words with them , half a dozen at most . 
On these occasions Her mann's usual stare became positively glassy and Mrs. Hermann's kind countenance would colour up . 
The girl herself never turned a hair . 
Falk was a Dane or perhaps a Norwegian , I can't tell now . 
At all events he was a Scandinavian of some sort , and a bloated monopolist to boot . 
It is possible he was unacquainted with the word , but he had a clear perception of the thing itself . 
His tariff of charges for towing ships in and out was the most brutally inconsiderate document of the sort I had ever seen . 
I daresay there are yet a few shipmasters afloat who remember Falk and his tug very well . 
He extracted his pound and a half of flesh from each of us merchant skippers with an inflexible sort of indifference which made him detested and even feared . 
Schomberg used to remark I won't talk about the fellow . 
I don't think he has six drinks from year's end to year's end in my place . 
But my advice is , gentlemen , don't you have anything to do with him , if you can help it . 
This advice , apart from unavoidable business re lations , was easy to follow because Falk intruded upon no one . 
Falk's face reminded me of that cen taur . 
Besides , he was a composite creature . 
Not a man horse , it is true , but a man boat . 
He lived on board his tug , which was always dashing up and down the river from early morn till dewy eve . 
Separated from his boat to me at least he seemed incomplete . 
The tug herself without his head and torso on the bridge looked mutilated as it were . 
But he left her very seldom . 
All the time I re mained in harbour I saw him only twice on shore . 
On the first occasion it was at my charterers , where he came in misanthropically to get paid for towing out a French barque the day before . 
The second time I could hardly believe my eyes , for I beheld him reclining under his beard in a cane bottomed chair in the billiard room of Schomberg's hotel . 
It was very funny to see Schomberg ignoring him pointedly . 
The artificiality of it contrasted strongly with Falk's natural unconcern . 
The big Alsatian talked loudly with his other customers , go ing from one little table to the other , and passing Falk's place of repose with his eyes fixed straight ahead . 
Falk sat there with an untouched glass at his elbow . 
He must have known by sight and name every white man in the room , but he never addressed a word to anybody . 
He acknowledged my presence by a drop of his eyelids , and that was all . 
it was a passionate and inexplicable gesture . 
He used to make it at all sorts of times as likely as not after he had been listening to little Lena's chatter about the suffering doll , for instance . 
The Hermann children always besieged him about his legs closely , though , in a gentle way , he shrank from them a little . 
He seemed , however , to feel a great affection for the whole family . 
In this case , for instance , he must have been waiting for him , because as soon as he appeared Falk rose hastily , and they went out together . 
Then Schom berg expounded in my hearing to three or four people his theory that Falk was after Captain Her mann's niece , and asserted confidently that nothing would come of it . 
It was the same last year when Captain Hermann was loading here , he said . 
Naturally , I did not believe Schomberg , but I own that for a time I observed closely what went on . 
All I discovered was some impatience on Her mann's part . 
At the sight of Falk , stepping over the gangway , the excellent man would begin to mumble and chew between his teeth something that sounded like German swear words . 
However , as I've said , I'm not familiar with the language , and Hermann's soft , round eyed countenance remained unchanged . 
Staring stolidly ahead he greeted him with , Wie gehts , or in English , How are you ? with a throaty enunciation . 
Falk would throw himself into a chair , stretch his big legs , as like as not draw his hands down his face passionately . 
He was sure to get his own extortionate terms out of me for towage whether he frowned or smiled . 
As a matter of fact , he did neither but before many days elapsed he managed to astonish me not a little and to set Schomberg's tongue clacking more than ever . 
It came about in this way . 
I don't know how it may be now , but at the time I speak of that sand bank was a great nuisance to the shipping . 
One of its consequences was that vessels of a certain draught of water , like Hermann's or mine , could not complete their loading in the river . 
After taking in as much as possible of their cargo , they had to go outside to fill up . 
The whole procedure was an unmitigated bore . 
When you thought you had as much on board as your ship could carry safely over the bar , you went and gave notice to your agents . 
They , in their turn , notified Falk that so and so was ready to go out . 
And he would force you too to take the end of his own wire hawser , for the use of which there was of course an extra charge . 
Eigh teen miles down the river you had to go behind him , and then three more along the coast to where a group of uninhabited rocky islets enclosed a shel tered anchorage . 
There you would have to lie at single anchor with your naked spars showing to seaward over these barren fragments of land scat tered upon a very intensely blue sea . 
You had nothing to do but to wait fretfully for the balance of your cargo , which was sent out of the river with the greatest irregularity . 
And it was open to you to console yourself with the thought that , after all , this stage of bother meant that your departure from these shores was indeed approaching at last . 
We both had to go through that stage , Hermann and I , and there was a sort of tacit emulation be tween the ships as to which should be ready first . 
They told him there that my ship was first on turn for next morn ing , and I believe he told them he was in no hurry . 
It suited him better to go the day after . 
That evening , on board the Diana , he sat with his plump knees well apart , staring and puffing at the curved mouthpiece of his pipe . 
Presently he spoke with some impatience to his niece about put ting the children to bed . 
In a little while Mrs. Hermann had to leave us to quell what , from the sounds inside , must have been a dan gerous mutiny . 
At this Hermann grumbled to him self . 
he said in English Well . 
Good night , Captain Her mann . 
He stopped for a moment before my chair and looked down fixedly I may even say he glared and he went so far as to make a deep noise in his throat . 
There was in all this something so marked that for the first time in our limited intercourse of nods and grunts he excited in me something like interest . 
But next moment he disappointed me for he strode away hastily without a nod even . 
He had dis tinctly aroused my expectations . 
I remember only that there was , on that evening , enough point in his behaviour to make me , after he had fled , wonder audibly what he might mean . 
To this Hermann , crossing his legs with a swing and settling himself viciously away from me in his chair , said That fellow don't know himself what he means . 
There might have been some insight in such a remark . 
I said nothing , and , still averted , he added When I was here last year he was just the same . 
An eruption of tobacco smoke envel oped his head as if his temper had exploded like gunpowder . 
After all , I reflected suddenly , it was a most remarkable thing . 
I wonder now what Hermann would have said . 
As it turned out he didn't let me ask . 
The necessity of disbursing passage money for all his tribe seemed to disturb him in a manner that was the more striking because other wise he gave no signs of a miserly disposition . 
And yet he fussed over the prospect of that voyage home in a mail boat like a sedentary grocer who has made up his mind to see the world . 
I could see he grudged prospectively every single shilling which must be spent so absurd ly . 
A lot of money that to spend at once . 
A big lot of money . 
to these heart searchings till I grew thoroughly sleepy , and then I left him and turned in on board my ship . 
At daylight I was awakened by a yelping of shrill voices , accompanied by a great commotion in the water , and the short , bullying blasts of a steam whistle . 
Falk with his tug had come for me . 
It was remarkable that the answering noise on board my ship together with the patter of feet above my head ceased suddenly . 
But I heard more remote guttural cries which seemed to express surprise and annoyance . 
Then the voice of my mate reached me howling expostulations to somebody at a distance . 
Other voices joined , ap parently indignant a chorus of something that sounded like abuse replied . 
Now and then the steam whistle screeched . 
Altogether that unnecessary uproar was distract ing , but down there in my cabin I took it calmly . 
Greatly cheered by the idea , I seized the hair brushes and looking at myself in the glass began to use them . 
Personally I am still on the look out for that important turn . 
I am , however , afraid that most of us are fated to flounder for ever in the dead water of a pool whose shores are arid indeed . 
Go ahead are not particularly striking words even when pronounced with a foreign accent yet they petrified me in the very act of smiling at myself in the glass . 
And then , refusing to believe my ears , but already boiling with indignation , I ran out of the cabin and up on deck . 
I had no eyes for anything but the Diana . 
It was she , then , was being taken away . 
She was already out of her berth and shooting athwart the river . 
The way this loonatic plucked that ship out is a cau tion , said the awed voice of my mate close to my ear . 
Hey ! Hallo ! Falk ! Hermann ! What's this infernal trick ? I yelled in a fury . 
Falk certainly could not hear me . 
His tug was turning at full speed away under the other bank . 
The wire hawser between her and the Diana , stretched as taut as a harpstring , vibrated alarmingly . 
The high black craft careened over to the awful strain . 
A loud crack came out of her , followed by the tearing and splintering of wood . 
There ! said the awed voice in my ear . 
He's carried away their towing chock . 
And then , with enthusiasm , Oh ! Look ! Look ! sir , Look ! at them Dutchmen skipping out of the way on the forecastle . 
I hope to goodness he'll break a few of their shins before he's done with 'em . 
I yelled my vain protests . 
The rays of the rising sun coursing level along the plain warmed my back , but I was hot enough with rage . 
I could not have believed that a simple towing operation could sug gest so plainly the idea of abduction , of rape . 
Falk was simply running off with the Diana . 
The white tug careered out into the middle of the river . 
The red floats of her paddle wheels revolv ing with mad rapidity tore up the whole reach into foam . 
The Diana in mid stream waltzed round with as much grace as an old barn , and flew after her ravisher . 
Instead of keep ing a lookout ahead , he was deliberately turning his back on the river to glare at his tow . 
She piled up a streaming , hissing , boiling wave half way up her blunt stem , my crew let out one great howl , and then we held our breaths . 
It was a near thing . 
But Falk had her ! He had her in his clutch . 
I fancied I could hear the steel hawser ping as it surged across the Diana's forecastle , with the hands on board of her bolting away from it in all directions . 
It was a near thing . 
Hermann , with his hair rumpled , in a snuffy flannel shirt and a pair of mustard coloured trousers , had rushed to help with the wheel . 
Meanwhile Mrs. Hermann sat placidly on the skylight , with a woollen shawl on her shoul ders . 
The excellent woman in response to my in dignant gesticulations fluttered a handkerchief , nodding and smiling in the kindest way imagina ble . 
The whole family passed before my sight as if dragged across a scene of un paralleled violence . 
The last I saw was Hermann's niece with the baby Hermann in her arms standing apart from the others . 
Magnificent in her close fitting print frock she displayed something so com manding in the manifest perfection of her figure that the sun seemed to be rising for her alone . 
The flood of light brought out the opulence of her form and the vigour of her youth in a glorifying way . 
I saw his tiny fat arm rise and fall in a workmanlike manner . 
And then the four cottage windows of the Diana came into view retreating swiftly down the river . 
The sashes were up , and one of the white calico curtains was fluttered straight out like a streamer above the agi tated water of the wake . 
To be thus tricked out of one's turn was an un heard of occurrence . 
Between them a waggling punkah fanned twenty cane bottomed chairs and two rows of shiny plates . 
Three China men in white jackets loafed with napkins in their hands around that desolation . 
Schomberg's pet table d'hote was not much of a success that day . 
He was feeding himself ferociously and seemed to overflow with bitterness . 
His firm conviction was that Falk had been trying all along to curry favour on the cheap with Hermann . 
On the cheap mind you ! It doesn't cost him a cent to put that insult upon you , and Captain Her mann gets in a day ahead of your ship . 
Time's money ! Eh ? You are very friendly with Captain Hermann I believe , but a man is bound to be pleased at any little advantage he may get . 
Captain Her mann is a good business man , and there's no such thing as a friend in business . 
Is there ? He leaned forward and began to cast stealthy glances as usual . 
But Falk is , and always was , a misera ble fellow . 
I muttered , grumpily , that I had no particular respect for Falk . 
I would despise him , he insisted , with an ap pearance of anxiety which would have amused me if I had not been fathoms deep in discontent . 
To a young man fairly conscientious and as well mean ing as only the young man can be , the current ill usage of life comes with a peculiar cruelty . 
Youth that is fresh enough to believe in guilt , in innocence , and in itself , will always doubt whether it have not perchance deserved its fate . 
Sombre of mind and without appetite , I struggled with the chop while Mrs. Schomberg sat with her everlasting stupid grin and Schomberg's talk gathered way like a slide of rubbish . 
It's all about that girl . 
I don't know what Captain Hermann expects , but if he asked me I could tell him something about Falk . 
That man is a perfect slave . 
That's what I call him . 
Last year I started this table d'hote , and sent cards out you know . 
You think he had one meal in the house ? Give the thing a trial ? Not once . 
He has got hold now of a Madras cook a blamed fraud that I hunted out of my cookhouse with a rattan . 
He was not fit to cook for white men . 
No , not for the white men's dogs either but , see , any damned native that can boil a pot of rice is good enough for Mr. Falk . 
Rice and a little fish he buys for a few cents from the fishing boats outside is what he lives on . 
You would hardly credit it eh ? A white man , too . 
He wiped his lips , using the napkin with indig nation , and looking at me . 
It flashed through my mind in the midst of my depression that if all the meat in the town was like these table d'hote chops , Falk wasn't so far wrong . 
I was on the point of saying this , but Schomberg's stare was intimidat ing . 
He's a vegetarian , perhaps , I murmured instead . 
A miserable miser , affirmed the hotel keeper with great force . 
The meat here is not so good as at home of course . 
I only charge a dollar for the tif fin , and one dollar and fifty cents for the dinner . 
Why am I doing it ? There's little profit in this game . 
Falk wouldn't look at it . 
I do it for the sake of a lot of young white fellows here that hadn't a place where they could get a decent meal and eat it decently in good company . 
There's first rate company always at my table . 
The convinced way he surveyed the empty chairs made me feel as if I had intruded upon a tiffin of ghostly Presences . 
A white man should eat like a white man , dash it all , he burst out impetuously . 
Ought to eat meat , must eat meat . 
I manage to get meat for my patrons all the year round . 
Don't I ? I am not ca tering for a dam' lot of coolies Have another chop captain . 
No ? You , boy take away ! He threw himself back and waited grimly for the curry . 
Schomberg did not open his lips till he was ready to thrust therein a spoonful of greasy rice . 
He rolled his eyes ridicu lously before he swallowed the hot stuff , and only then broke out afresh . 
It is the most degrading thing . 
They take the dish up to the wheelhouse for him with a cover on it , and he shuts both the doors before he begins to eat . 
Fact ! Must be ashamed of himself . 
I assure you it is so ! You just ask Mr. Ferdinand da Costa . 
That's the engineer he has now . 
You may have seen him about my place , a delicate dark young man , with very fine eyes and a little moustache . 
He arrived here a year ago from Calcutta . 
Between you and me , I guess the money lenders there must have been after him . 
Young da Costa himself was telling me of it here in this room . 
Schomberg' says he 'if I had let a cylinder cover blow off through the skylight by my negligence Captain Falk couldn't have been more savage . 
He frightened the cook so that he won't put anything on the fire for me now . 
Poor da Costa had tears in his eyes . 
Only try to put yourself in his place , captain a sensitive , gen tlemanly young fellow . 
Is he expected to eat his food raw ? But that's your Falk all over . 
Ask any one you like . 
I suppose the fifteen dollars extra he has to give keep on rankling in there . 
And Schomberg tapped his manly breast . 
I sat half stunned by his irrelevant babble . 
Suddenly he gripped my forearm in an impressive and cau tious manner , as if to lead me into a very cavern of confidence . 
It's nothing but enviousness , he said in a low ered tone , which had a stimulating effect upon my wearied hearing . 
I don't suppose there is one person in this town that he isn't envious of . 
I tell you he's dangerous . 
Even I myself am not safe from him . 
I know for certain he tried to poi son . 
Oh , come now , I cried , revolted . 
But I know for certain . 
The people themselves came and told me of it . 
He went about saying everywhere I was a worse pest to this town than the cholera . 
He had been talking against me ever since I opened this hotel . 
And he poisoned Captain Her mann's mind too . 
Last time the Diana was loading here Captain Hermann used to come in every day for a drink or a cigar . 
This time he hasn't been here twice in a week . 
How do you account for that ? He squeezed my arm till he extorted from me some sort of mumble . 
He makes ten times the money I do . 
I've another hotel to fight against , and there is no other tug on the river . 
I am not in his way , am I ? He wouldn't be fit to run an hotel if he tried . 
But that's just his nature . 
He can't bear to think I am mak ing a living . 
I only hope it makes him properly wretched . 
He's like that in everything . 
He would like to keep a decent table well enough . 
But no for the sake of a few cents . 
It's too much for him . 
That's what I call being a slave to it . 
But he's mean enough to kick up a row when his nose gets tickled a bit . 
See that ? That just paints him . 
You can't account for it any other way . 
Can you ? I have been studying him these three years . 
He was anxious I should assent to his theory . 
And indeed on thinking it over it would have been plausible enough if there hadn't been always the essential falseness of irresponsibility in Schom berg's chatter . 
However , I was not disposed to in vestigate the psychology of Falk . 
I could expect from their study no clue to his conduct in matters of business , which seemed to me totally unrestrained by morality or even by the commonest sort of de cency . 
How insignificant and contemptible I must appear , for the fellow to dare treat me like this I reflected suddenly , writhing in silent agony . 
And I consigned Falk and all his peculiarities to the devil with so much mental fervour as to forget Schom berg's existence , till he grabbed my arm urgently . 
Well , you may think and think till every hair of your head falls off , captain but you can't explain it in any other way . 
For the sake of peace and quietness I admitted hurriedly that I couldn't persuaded that now he would leave off . 
But the only result was to make his moist face shine with the pride of cunning . 
He removed his hand for a moment to scare a black mass of flies off the sugar basin and caught hold of my arm again . 
And in the same way everybody is aware he would like to get married . 
Let me quote you an instance . 
Suddenly Falk takes to going up to their bunga low after dinner , and sitting for hours in the veran dah saying nothing . 
And it wasn't as if she had been a strong young woman either . 
She was thirty , and the cli mate had been playing the deuce with her . 
Then don't you know Fred had to sit up with them for propriety , and during whole weeks on end never got a single chance to get to bed before midnight . 
That was not pleasant for a tired man was it ? And besides Fred had worries then because his shop didn't pay and he was dropping money fast . 
I , myself , could show a hand ful of his chits for meals and drinks in my drawer . 
I could never find out tho' where he found all the money at last . 
Can't be but he must have got some thing out of that brother of his , a coal merchant in Port Said . 
Anyhow he paid everybody before he left , but the girl nearly broke her heart . 
Disap pointment , of course , and at her age , don't you know . 
Mrs. Schomberg here was very friendly with her , and she could tell you . 
He was a man who could speak like a Dutch Uncle , and , be sides , Messrs . 
Siegers had been helping Falk with a good bit of money from the start . 
In fact you may say they made him as far as that goes . 
Anyhow my friend's certain that Falk was trying to make all sorts of excuses , and old Mr. Siegers was coughing a lot . 
And yet Falk wanted all the time to be married too . 
Why ! It's notorious the man has been longing for years to make a home for himself . 
Only he can't face the expense . 
When it comes to putting his hand in his pocket it chokes him off . 
That's the truth and no other . 
I've always said so , and everybody agrees with me by this time . 
He bounced in his chair as if I had run a pin into him . 
There was no answer , but the voices dropped sud denly . 
The head Chinaman went out . 
We heard the clink of ice in the glasses , pouring sounds , the shuffling of feet , the scraping of chairs . 
Schom berg , after wondering in a low mutter who the devil could be there at this time of the day , got up napkin in hand to peep through the doorway cautiously . 
The return of the tug from the outer Roads was unexpected but possible , for Falk had taken away the Diana at half past five , and it was now two o'clock . 
Schomberg wished me to observe that neither of these men would spend a dollar on a tiffin , which they must have wanted . 
But by the time I was ready to leave the dining room Falk had gone . 
I heard the last of his big boots on the planks of the verandah . 
Hermann was sitting quite alone in the large , wooden room with the two lifeless billiard tables shrouded in striped covers , mopping his face diligently . 
He wore his best go ashore clothes , a stiff collar , black coat , large white waistcoat , grey trousers . 
He gave a start at my entrance , and addressed me at once in some confusion , but with genuine ea gerness . 
He was anxious to make it clear he had nothing to do with what he called the tam piz ness of the morning . 
He had reckoned upon another day up in town to settle his bills and sign certain papers . 
There were also some few stores to come , and sundry pieces of my ironwork , as he called it quaintly , landed for repairs , had been left behind . 
Now he would have to hire a native boat to take all this out to the ship . 
It would cost five or six dollars perhaps . 
He had had no warning from Falk . 
He hit the table with his dumpy fist . 
Der ver fluchte Kerl came in the morning like a tam' ropper , making a great noise , and took him away . 
His mate was not prepared , his ship was moored fast he protested it was shameful to come upon a man in that way . 
I never realised so well before that this is an age of steam . 
The exclusive possession of a marine boiler had given Falk the whiphand of us all . 
Hermann , recovering , put it to me appealingly that I knew very well how unsafe it was to contra dict that fellow . 
At this I only smiled distantly . 
Der Kerl ! he cried . 
He was sorry he had not refused . 
The damage ! The dam age ! What for all that damage ! There was no occasion for damage . 
You passed close enough to me , I added significantly . 
He threw both his hands up to heaven at the rec ollection . 
One of them grasped by the middle the white parasol , and he resembled curiously a carica ture of a shopkeeping citizen in one of his own Ger man comic papers . 
Ach ! That was dangerous , he cried . 
But directly he added with an appearance of simplicity , The side of your iron ship would have been crushed in like like this matchbox . 
The inconvenience , the damage , the expense ! Gott ferdam ! Devil take the fellow . 
But it occurred to me while I listened to his revilings , that after all the good man had come up in the tug . 
There perhaps since he must come to town he had no option . 
But evidently he had had a drink with Falk , either accepted or offered . 
How was that ? So I checked him by saying loftily that I hoped he would make Falk pay for every penny of the damage . 
That's it ! That's it ! Go for him , called out Schomberg from the bar , flinging his pencil down and rubbing his hands . 
But Hermann's excite ment suddenly went off the boil as when you remove a saucepan from the fire . 
I urged on his considera tion that he had done now with Falk and Falk's con founded tug . 
He was there fore safe from Falk's malice . 
All he had to do was to race off to his consignees and stop payment of the towage bill before Falk had the time to get in and lift the money . 
Nothing could have been less in the spirit of my advice than the thoughtful way in which he set about to make his parasol stay propped against the edge of the table . 
While I watched his concentrated efforts with as tonishment he threw at me one or two perplexed , half shy glances . 
That's all very well , he said reflectively . 
It cannot be doubted that the man had been thrown off his balance by being hauled out of the harbour against his wish . 
No more than myself , I answered with literal truth . 
The girl was of the sort one necessa rily casts eyes at in a sense . 
She made no noise , but she filled most satisfactorily a good bit of space . 
But you , captain , are not the same kind of man , observed Hermann . 
I was not , I am happy to say , in a position to deny this . 
What about the lady ? I could not help asking . 
At this he gazed for a time into my face , earnestly , and made as if to change the sub ject . 
I heard him beginning to mutter something unexpected , about his children growing old enough to require schooling . 
He would have to leave them ashore with their grandmother when he took up that new command he expected to get in Germany . 
This constant harping on his domestic arrange ments was funny . 
I suppose it must have been like the prospect of a complete alteration in his life . 
He was going , too , to part with the Diana ! He had served in her for years . 
From an uncle , if I remember rightly . 
And the future loomed big before him , occupying his thought exclusively with all its aspects as on the eve of a venturesome enterprise . 
He sat there frowning and biting his lip , and suddenly he began to fume and fret . 
I discovered to my momentary amusement that he seemed to imagine I could , should or ought , have caused Falk in some way to pronounce him self . 
Such a hope was incomprehensible , but funny . 
Then the contact with all this foolishness irritated me . 
I said crossly that I had seen no symptoms , but if there were any since he , Hermann , was so sure then it was still worse . 
What pleasure Falk found in humbugging people in just that way I couldn't say . 
It was , however , my solemn duty to warn him . 
who had been taken in just like this . 
It looked , indeed , as though his mind had been thoroughly poisoned against Schomberg . 
His tales were they were , he re peated , seeking for the word trash . 
They were trash , he reiterated , and moreover I was young yet . 
I felt ready in my own mind to back up every asser tion of Schomberg's and on any subject . 
In a mo ment , devil only knows why , Hermann and I were looking at each other most inimically . 
He caught up his hat without more ado and I gave myself the pleasure of calling after him Take my advice and make Falk pay for break ing up your ship . 
You aren't likely to get any thing else out of him . 
Man's always in a state of hurry . 
He chuckled at his joke . 
Now he has fired out that Dutchman head over heels , I suppose our turn's coming to morrow morning . 
ready to cast off in the twinkling of an eye . 
For a moment I entertained the wild notion that he was going to turn round in the next reach . 
Afterwards I watched his smoke appear above the plain , now here , now there , according to the windings of the river . 
Then without a word I went down to breakfast . 
I just simply went down to breakfast . 
I started to the office perfectly calm . 
Evidently they knew all about it already , and they treated me to a show of conster nation . 
Never ! I did my best to preserve a cool appearance , but , all the same , I must have shown how much taken aback I was . 
We were talking in the middle of the room . 
Suddenly behind my back some ass blew his nose with great force , and at the same time an other quill driver jumped up and went out on the landing hastily . 
It occurred to me I was cutting a foolish figure there . 
I demanded angrily to see the principal in his private room . 
His narrow sunken face was of an uniform and permanent ter ra cotta colour , like a piece of pottery . 
He was sickly , thin , and short , with wrists like a boy of ten . 
We had had several passages of arms . 
pretended to the knowledge of their innermost minds , and , in the character of our very good friends , threw them perpetually at my head . 
, and declared at once that it was strange , very strange . 
His pronunciation of English was so extravagant that I can't even attempt to reproduce it . 
For instance , he said Fferie strantch . 
They had , he con tinued , been acquainted with Captain Falk for very many years , and never had any reason . 
That's why I come to you , of course , I inter rupted . 
I've the right to know the meaning of this infernal nonsense . 
In the half light of the room , which was greenish , because of the tree tops screening the window , I saw him writhe his meagre shoulders . 
As I lived I was being lectured too ! His deafening gibberish was difficult to follow , but it was MY conduct mine ! that . 
Damn ! I wasn't going to stand this . 
What on earth are you driving at ? I asked in a passion . 
, and as he seemed for the moment struck dumb by my irreverence , I turned my back on him and marched out . 
Once outside in the sunshine my head swam . 
It was no longer a question of mere delay . 
I per ceived myself involved in hopeless and humiliating absurdities that were leading me to something very like a disaster . 
Let us be calm , I muttered to myself , and ran into the shade of a leprous wall . 
For a moment I felt myself about to go out of my mind with worry and desperation . 
Some allowance must be made for the feelings of a young man new to responsibility . 
I thought of my crew . 
Half of them were ill , and I really began to think that some of them would end by dy ing on board if I couldn't get them out to sea soon . 
And I almost shrank from undertaking them shorthanded and without local knowledge of the river bed , which is so necessary for the con fident handling of the ship . 
But how dangerous these turns were I would not tell . 
I didn't even know what my ship was capable of ! I had never handled her in my life . 
A misunder standing between a man and his ship in a difficult river with no room to make it up , is bound to end in trouble for the man . 
On the other hand , it must be owned I had not much reason to count upon a general run of good luck . 
And suppose I had the misfortune to pile her up high and dry on some beastly shoal ? That would have been the final un doing of that voyage . 
It was plain that if Falk refused to tow me out he would also refuse to pull me off . 
They were a power in the port . 
And that elderly seaman of mine , Gambril , had looked pretty ghastly when I went forward to dose him with quinine that morn ing . 
HE would certainly die not to speak of two or three others that seemed nearly as bad , and of the rest of them just ready to catch any tropical disease going . 
Horror , ruin and everlasting re morse . 
I had fallen amongst a lot of unfriendly lunatics ! At any rate , if I must take my ship down myself it was my duty to procure if possible some local knowledge . 
But that was not easy . 
I had a notion that if I could lay my hands on him I would sober him on board my ship and use him for a pilot . 
Once a sailor always a sailor and he had known the river for years . 
they could tell me noth ing . 
The excellent young men on the staff , though willing to help me , belonged to a sphere of the white colony for which that sort of Johnson does not exist . 
Their suggestion was that I should hunt the man up myself with the help of the Consulate's constable an ex sergeant major of a regiment of Hussars . 
But he did not conceal an immense and scep tical contempt for the whole business . 
We explored together on that afternoon an infinity of infamous grog shops , gambling dens , opium dens . 
We walked up narrow lanes where our gharry a tiny box of a thing on wheels , attached to a jibbing Bur mah pony could by no means have passed . 
We got out of the gharry and clambered into dwellings airy like packing crates , or descended into places sinister like cellars . 
We got in , we drove on , we got out again for the sole purpose , as it seemed , of looking behind a heap of rubble . 
The sun declined my companion was curt and sardonic in his answers , but it appears we were just missing Johnson all along . 
At last our conveyance stopped once more with a jerk , and the driver jumping down opened the door . 
A black mudhole blocked the lane . 
A mound of garbage crowned with the dead body of a dog ar rested us not . 
An empty Australian beef tin bounded cheerily before the toe of my boot . 
Sud denly we clambered through a gap in a prickly fence . 
Your man's at home , said the ex sergeant , and stepped aside in complete and marked indifference to anything that might follow . 
Johnson at home stood with his back to a native house built on posts and with its walls made of mats . 
In his left hand he held a banana . 
Out of the right he dealt another dollar into space . 
The woman captured this one on the wing , and there and then plumped down on the ground to look at us with greater comfort . 
My man was sallow of face , grizzled , unshaven , muddy on elbows and back where the seams of his serge coat yawned you could see his white naked ness . 
The vestiges of a paper collar encircled his neck . 
He looked at us with a grave , swaying sur prise . 
Where do you come from ? he asked . 
How could I have been stupid enough to waste energy and time for this ? But having already gone so far I approached a little nearer and declared the purpose of my visit . 
A six hun dred ton barque , drawing nine feet aft . 
You've forgotten to apologise , he said at last with extreme precision . 
Not being a gentleman yourself , you don't know apparently when you in trude upon a gentleman . 
I wish you to understand that when I am in funds I don't work , and now . 
I would have pronounced him perfectly sober hadn't he paused in great concern to try and brush a hole off the knee of his trousers . 
I have money and friends . 
Perhaps you would like to know my friend ? His name is Falk . 
You could borrow some money . 
F A L K , Falk . 
A noble heart , he said muzzily . 
Has Falk been giving you some money ? I asked , appalled by the detailed finish of the dark plot . 
Lent me , my good man , not given me . 
Lent , he corrected suavely . 
He rushed at the miserable Johnson , stammering with fury . 
He was like a wild beast . 
It seems he had been greatly annoyed at losing his free afternoon on my account . 
The gar den of his bungalow required his personal atten tion , and at the slight blow of the banana the brute in him had broken loose . 
We left Johnson on his back , still black in the face , but beginning to kick feebly . 
Meantime , the big woman had remained sitting on the ground , apparently paralysed with extreme terror . 
For half an hour we jolted inside our rolling box , side by side , in profound silence . 
The ex ser geant was busy staunching the blood of a long scratch on his cheek . 
I hope you're satisfied , he said suddenly . 
That's what comes of all that tomfool business . 
If you hadn't quarrelled with that tugboat skipper over some girl or other , all this wouldn't have happened . 
You heard THAT story ? I said . 
And I shouldn't wonder if the Consul General himself doesn't come to hear of it . 
How am I to go before him to morrow with that thing on my cheek I want to know . 
I couldn't face my ship . 
Well ! she had a clever sort of skip per and no mistake poor thing ! What a horrid mess ! I took my head between my hands . 
At times the obviousness of my innocence would reduce me to despair . 
What had I done ? If I had done something to bring about the situation I should at least have learned not to do it again . 
But I felt guiltless to the point of imbecility . 
The room was empty yet only Schomberg prowled round me goggle eyed and with a sort of awed respectful cu riosity . 
No doubt he had set the story going him self but he was a good hearted chap , and I am really persuaded he participated in all my troubles . 
He did what he could for me . 
That's what comes of running your head against Mr. Falk . 
He made a loud smacking noise with his thick lips . 
The finest lump of a girl that I ever . 
he was going on with great unction , but for some reason or other broke off . 
I fancied myself throwing something at his head . 
I don't blame you , captain . 
Hang me if I do , he said with a patronising air . 
Thank you , I said resignedly . 
It was no use fighting against this false fate . 
I don't know even if I was sure myself where the truth of the matter began . 
The conviction that it would end disas trously had been driven into me by all the succes sive shocks my sense of security had received . 
I began to ascribe an extraordinary potency to agents in themselves powerless . 
It was as if Schomberg's baseless gossip had the power to bring about the thing itself or the abstract enmity of Falk could put my ship ashore . 
I have already explained how fatal this last would have been . 
For my further action , my youth , my inexperience , my very real concern for the health of my crew must be my excuse . 
The ac tion itself , when it came , was purely impulsive . 
It was set in movement quite undiplomatically and simply by Falk's appearance in the doorway . 
The room was full by then and buzzing with voices . 
Fracas was bad for busi ness , he affirmed but , in truth , this specimen of portly , middle aged manhood was of a timid dis position . 
I don't know what , considering my pres ence in the place , they all hoped would come of it . 
A sort of stag fight , perhaps . 
Or they may have supposed Falk had come in only to annihilate me completely . 
It was this that gave me my opportunity . 
I don't think I would have gone to seek Falk out . 
No. I don't think so . 
But there was an opportunity and I seized it I have already tried to explain why . 
Schomberg at all events needn't , since from first to last , I am happy to say , there was not the slightest fracas . 
Overcoming a nervous contraction of the wind pipe , I had managed to exclaim Captain Falk ! His start of surprise was perfectly genuine , but afterwards he neither smiled nor scowled . 
Schomberg , however , with a long tumbler in his hand , was making towards us prudently , and I discovered then the only sign of weakness in Falk . 
He had for Schomberg a repulsion resembling that sort of physical fear some people experience at the sight of a toad . 
the other's irrepressible loquacity , em bracing every human being within range of the tongue , might have appeared unnatural , disgust ing , and monstrous . 
This weakness of his gave me the advantage at the very start . 
Verandah , I suggested , as if ren dering him a service , and walked him out by the arm . 
We stumbled over a few chairs we had the feeling of open space before us , and felt the fresh breath of the river fresh , but tainted . 
I felt him become suddenly tractable again like an animal , like a good tempered horse when the object that scares him is removed . 
I felt in the darkness there how tractable he was , without my conviction of his inflexibility tenacity , rather , perhaps being in the least weakened . 
His very arm abandoning it self to my grasp was as hard as marble like a limb of iron . 
But I heard a tumultuous scuffling of boot soles within . 
The unspeakable idiots inside were crowding to the windows , climbing over each other's backs behind the blinds , billiard cues and all . 
He must have trembled like an aspen leaf . 
The piece of ice in the long tumbler he held in his hand tinkled with an effect of chat tering teeth . 
I beg you , gentlemen , he expost ulated thickly . 
Come ! Really , now , I must in sist . 
How proud I am of my presence of mind ! Hallo , I said instantly in a loud and naive tone , somebody's breaking your windows , Schomberg . 
Would you please tell one of your boys to bring out here a pack of cards and a couple of lights ? And two long drinks . 
Will you ? To receive an order soothed him at once . 
Certainly , he said in an immensely relieved tone . 
I don't give any occasion for talk . 
I am a respectable man . 
But this fellow is always making out something wrong , and can never rest till he gets somebody to believe him . 
This was the first of my knowledge of Falk . 
This desire of respectability , of being like every body else , was the only recognition he vouchsafed to the organisation of mankind . 
For the rest he might have been the member of a herd , not of a so ciety . 
Self preservation was his only concern . 
Not selfishness , but mere self preservation . 
I don't mean to say that living naked in a cavern would have satis fied him . 
Obviously he was the creature of the conditions to which he was born . 
No doubt self preservation meant also the preservation of these conditions . 
But essentially it meant something much more simple , natural , and powerful . 
How shall I express it ? It meant the preservation of the five senses of his body let us say taking it in its narrowest as well as in its widest meaning . 
I think you will admit before long the justice of this judg ment . 
However , as we stood there together in the dark verandah I had judged nothing as yet and I had no desire to judge which is an idle practice anyhow . 
The light was long in coming . 
Of course , I said in a tone of mutual under standing , it isn't exactly a game of cards I want with you . 
I saw him draw his hands down his face the vague stir of the passionate and meaningless ges ture but he waited in silent patience . 
It was only when the lights had been brought out that he opened his lips . 
I understood his mumble to mean that he didn't know any game . 
Like this Schomberg and all the other fools will have to keep off , I said tearing open the pack . 
Have you heard that we are universally supposed to be quarrelling about a girl ? You know who of course . 
He thought me dangerous with Hermann , more than with the girl herself but , as to quarrelling , I saw at once how inappropriate the word was . 
Natural forces are not quarrelsome . 
You can't quarrel with the wind that inconveniences and humiliates you by blowing off your hat in a street full of people . 
He had no quarrel with me . 
Neither would a boulder , falling on my head , have had . 
He fell upon me in accordance with the law by which he was moved not of gravitation , like a detached stone , but of self preservation . 
Of course this is giving it a rather wide interpretation . 
Strictly speaking , he had existed and could have existed without being married . 
Yet he told me that he had found it more and more difficult to live alone . 
He told me this in his low , careless voice , to such a pitch of confidence had we arrived at the end of half an hour . 
It took me just about that time to convince him that I had never dreamed of marrying Hermann's niece . 
Any man with eyes in his head , he seemed to think , could not help coveting so much bodily magnifi cence . 
This profound belief was conveyed by the manner he listened sitting sideways to the table and playing absently with a few cards I had dealt to him at random . 
And the more I saw into him the more I saw of him . 
The wind swayed the lights so that his sunburnt face , whiskered to the eyes , seemed to successively flicker crimson at me and to go out . 
Something peculiar in the shape and setting of his yellow eyes gave them the provoking silent intensity which characterised his glance . 
These overgrown cheeks were sunken . 
It was an anchorite's bony head fitted with a Capuchin's beard and adjusted to a herculean body . 
Hercules , I take it , was not an athlete . 
He was a strong man , suscep tible to female charms , and not afraid of dirt . 
And thus with Falk , who was a strong man . 
was magnificently at tractive by the masterful power of flesh and blood , expressed in shape , in size , in attitude that is by a straight appeal to the senses . 
faithful female cook as Hermann's niece . 
It must be said that , just before , I had gone wrong by appealing to the evidence of my manner whenever I called on board the Diana . 
I had never attempted to approach the girl , or to speak to her , or even to look at her in any marked way . 
Staring down his extended legs he let out a grunt as much as to say , That's all very fine , but you can't throw dust in MY eyes . 
He lifted his head so sharply that there could be no mistake . 
I had touched a spring . 
I saw the whole extent of my opportunity , and could hardly believe in it . 
Well , of course , I proceeded very slowly , watching him with great at tention , for , on my word , I feared a joke . 
Not , perhaps , to the young lady herself . 
I can't speak German , you know . 
He interrupted me with the earnest assurance that Hermann had the highest opinion of me and at once I felt the need for the greatest possible diplomacy at this juncture . 
So I demurred just enough to draw him on . 
Oh , yes ! Hermann did have the greatest . 
Here's Schomberg peep ing at us through the blind ! I said . 
We went through the motions of what might have been a game of e'carte' . 
Presently the intoler able scandalmonger withdrew , probably to inform the people in the billiard room that we two were gambling on the verandah like mad . 
We were not gambling , but it was a game a game in which I felt I held the winning cards . 
The stake , roughly speaking , was the success of the voy age for me and he , I apprehended , had nothing to lose . 
Our intimacy matured rapidly , and before many words had been exchanged I perceived that the excellent Hermann had been making use of me . 
That simple and astute Teuton had been , it seems , holding me up to Falk in the light of a rival . 
I was young enough to be shocked at so much duplic ity . 
Did he tell you that in so many words ? I asked with indignation . 
He was perfectly straightforward about it as straightforward as a tile falling on your head . 
he let him have a dollar or two . 
He was himself a sailor , he said , and anticipated the view another sailor , like myself , was bound to take . 
On the other hand , he was sure that I should have to come to grief . 
He hadn't been knocking about for the last seven years up and down that river for nothing . 
It would have been no disgrace to me but he asserted confidently I would have had my ship very awkwardly ashore at a spot two miles below the Great Pagoda . 
And with all that he had no ill will . 
This was a crisis in which his only object had been to gain time I fancy . 
And presently he mentioned that he had written for some jewel lery , real good jewellery had written to Hong Kong for it . 
It would arrive in a day or two . 
Well , then , I said cheerily , everything is all right . 
All you've got to do is to present it to the lady together with your heart , and live happy ever after . 
Upon the whole he seemed to accept that view as far as the girl was concerned , but his eyelids drooped . 
There was still something in the way . 
For one thing Hermann disliked him so much . 
As to me , on the contrary , it seemed as though he could not praise me enough . 
He didn't know why they disliked him so . 
It made everything most difficult . 
I listened impassive , feeling more and more dip lomatic . 
His speech was not transparently clear . 
He was one of those men who seem to live , feel , suffer in a sort of mental twilight . 
But as to being fascinated by the girl and possessed by the desire of home life with her it was as clear as daylight . 
So much being at stake , he was afraid of putting it to the hazard of declaration . 
Besides , there was something else . 
And with Hermann being so set against him . 
I see , I said thoughtfully , while my heart beat fast with the excitement of my diplomacy . 
I don't mind sounding Hermann . 
In fact , to show you how mistaken you were , I am ready to do all I can for you in that way . 
A light sigh escaped him . 
He drew his hands down his face , and it emerged , bony , unchanged of expression , as if all the tissues had been ossified . 
All the passion was in those big brown hands . 
Then there was that other matter . 
If there were anybody on earth it was I who could persuade Hermann to take a reasonable view ! I had a knowledge of the world and lots of expe rience . 
And then I was a sailor too . 
Falk thought that a sail or would be able to understand certain things best . 
That was what my diplomacy was leading me to . 
I began suddenly to dislike it . 
I say , Falk , I asked quite brusquely , you haven't already a wife put away somewhere ? The pain and disgust of his denial were very striking . 
Couldn't I understand that he was as respectable as any white man hereabouts earning his living honestly . 
He was suffering from my sus picion , and the low undertone of his voice made his protestations sound very pathetic . 
By pretending hard enough we come to believe anything anything to our advantage . 
And I had been pretending very hard , because I meant yet to be towed safely down the river . 
But through conscience or stupidity , I couldn't help alluding to the Vanlo affair . 
You acted rather badly there . 
Didn't you ? was what I ventured actually to say for the logic of our conduct is always at the mercy of obscure and un foreseen impulses . 
His dilated pupils swerved from my face , glan cing at the window with a sort of scared fury . 
We heard behind the blinds the continuous and sudden clicking of ivory , a jovial murmur of many voices , and Schomberg's deep manly laugh . 
That confounded old woman of a hotel keeper then would never , never let it rest ! Falk ex claimed . 
Well , yes ! It had happened two years ago . 
When it came to the point he owned he couldn't make up his mind to trust Fred Vanlo no sailor , a bit of a fool too . 
He could not trust him , but , to stop his row , he had lent him enough money to pay all his debts before he left . 
I was greatly surprised to hear this . 
Then Falk could not be such a miser after all . 
So much the better for the girl . 
For a time he sat silent then he picked up a card , and while looking at it he said You need not think of anything bad . 
Then in heaven's name say nothing about it . 
As soon as these words were out of my mouth I fancied I had said something immoral . 
He shook his head negatively . 
It had to be told . 
He con sidered it proper that the relations of the lady should know . 
No doubt I thought to myself had Miss Vanlo not been thirty and damaged by the climate he would have found it possible to entrust Fred Vanlo with this confidence . 
And then the fig ure of Hermann's niece appeared before my mind's eye , with the wealth of her opulent form , her rich youth , her lavish strength . 
And that Hermann hates me , I know it ! he cried in his undertone , with a sudden recrudescence of anxiety . 
It is proper that they should know . 
You would say so yourself . 
He then murmured an utterly mysterious allu sion to the necessity for peculiar domestic arrange ments . 
Though my curiosity was excited I did not want to hear any of his confidences . 
I feared he might give me a piece of information that would make my assumed role of match maker odious however unreal it was . 
I am sure I can make it all right , I said . 
And when we rose not a word had been said about towage ! Not a word ! The game was won and the honour was safe . 
Behind his tone of doubt there was something desperate and menacing . 
But I was equal to the situation . 
My dear Falk , I said , beginning to lie with a glibness and effrontery that amazed me even at the time confidence for confidence . 
I will tell you that I am already engaged to an extremely charming girl at home , and so you understand . 
He caught my hand and wrung it in a crushing grip . 
I feel it every day more difficult to live alone . 
On rice and fish , I interrupted smartly , gig gling with the sheer nervousness of a danger es caped . 
He dropped my hand as if it had become sud denly red hot . 
A moment of profound silence en sued , as though something extraordinary had hap pened . 
I promise you to obtain Hermann's consent , I faltered out at last , and it seemed to me that he could not help seeing through that humbug ging promise . 
If there's anything else to get over I shall endeavour to stand by you , I conceded further , feeling somehow defeated and overborne but you must do your best yourself . 
He turned us out most unnecessarily at an ungodly hour , but it was nearly eleven in the morn ing before he brought me up a cable's length from Hermann's ship . 
And so did I and probably as soon as he had seen her himself . 
At once Falk steamed away for there was some work for him to do . 
He would return in the even ing . 
He ranged close by us , passing out dead slow , without a hail . 
There was for me an enormous significance in the scene , the sense of having witnessed a solemn declaration . 
After such a man ifestation he couldn't back out . 
And I reflected that it was nothing whatever to me now . 
When I looked again at Hermann's ship the girl had disappeared . 
This is the setting now inseparably connected with my knowledge of Falk's misfortune . 
My di plomacy had brought me there , and now I had only to wait the time for taking up the role of an ambas sador . 
My diplomacy was a success my ship was safe old Gambril would probably live a feeble sound of a tapping hammer came intermittently from the Diana . 
Unfortunate ! He had been unfortunate once . 
Well , that was not so bad as life goes . 
when considered dispassionately , seemed indistinguishable from a breach of trust . 
I might just as well have suspected the girl of a curvature of the spine . 
And I per ceived that the sun was about to set . 
The smoke of Falk's tug hove in sight , far away at the mouth of the river . 
It was time for me to assume the character of an ambassador , and the negotiation would not be difficult except in the matter of keeping my countenance . 
It was all too extravagantly nonsensical , and I conceived that it would be best to compose for myself a grave de meanour . 
I practised this in my boat as I went along , but the bashfulness that came secretly upon me the moment I stepped on the deck of the Diana is inexplicable . 
As soon as we had exchanged greetings Hermann asked me eagerly if I knew whether Falk had found his white parasol . 
He's going to bring it to you himself directly , I said with great solemnity . 
Meantime I am charged with an important message for which he begs your favourable consideration . 
He is in love with your niece . 
Ach So ! he hissed with an animosity that made my assumed gravity change into the most genuine concern . 
What meant this tone ? And I hurried on . 
He wishes , with your consent of course , to ask her to marry him at once before you leave here , that is . 
He would speak to the Consul . 
Hermann sat down and smoked violently . 
mind showed a conceit positively unbearable . 
that did not seem to have been a cause of offence . 
Of course he would not stand in the girl's way . 
He was going home to Germany . 
There were plenty of poor girls walking about in Germany . 
He's very much in love , was all I found to say . 
What sort of conduct is that ? The seven thousand dollars the fellow was always talking about did not , in his opinion , justify such behaviour . 
Moreover , nobody had seen them . 
seriously doubted if there were seven thousand cents , and the tug , no doubt , was mort gaged up to the top of the funnel to the firm of Siegers . 
He wouldn't stand in the girl's way . 
Her head was so turned that she had become no good to them of late . 
Quite unable even to put the children to bed without her aunt . 
It was bad for the children they got unruly and yesterday he actually had to give Gustav a thrash ing . 
For that , too , Falk was made responsible ap parently . 
How Falk had managed to turn the girl's head was more difficult to understand . 
I sup posed Hermann would know . 
Therefore it must have been his bodily appearance , exhibiting a virility of nature as exaggerated as his beard , and resembling a sort of constant ruthlessness . 
It was seen in the very manner he lolled in the chair . 
When attentively considered it seemed ap palling at times . 
He was a strange beast . 
But maybe women liked it . 
Seen in that light he was well worth taming , and I suppose every woman at the bottom of her heart considers herself as a tamer of strange beasts . 
But Hermann arose with pre cipitation to carry the news to his wife . 
I had barely the time , as he made for the cabin door , to grab him by the seat of his inexpressibles . 
I begged him to wait till Falk in person had spoken with him . 
There remained some small matter to talk over , as I understood . 
He sat down again at once , full of suspicion . 
What matter ? he said surlily . 
I have had enough of his nonsense . 
There's no matter at all , as he knows very well the girl has nothing in the world . 
She came to us in one thin dress when my brother died , and I have a growing family . 
It can't be anything of that kind , I opined . 
He's desperately enamoured of your niece . 
I don't know why he did not say so before . 
Upon my word , I believe it is because he was afraid to lose , perhaps , the felicity of sitting near her on your quarter deck . 
I intimated my conviction that his love was so great as to be in a sense cowardly . 
The effects of a great passion are unaccountable . 
It has been known to make a man timid . 
But Hermann looked at me as if I had foolishly raved and the twilight was dying out rapidly . 
You don't believe in passion , do you , Her mann ? I said cheerily . 
The passion of fear will make a cornered rat courageous . 
Falk's in a cor ner . 
He will take her off your hands in one thin frock just as she came to you . 
And after ten years' service it isn't a bad bargain , I added . 
Far from taking offence , he resumed his air of civic virtue . 
Only his short arms in respectable white shirt sleeves re mained very visible , propped up like the flippers of a seal reposing on the strand . 
Falk wouldn't settle anything about repairs . 
The engines must have been driven to the very utmost of their revolutions . 
It ceased all at once , just before Falk brought her up . 
A sin gle brusque splash was followed by the long drawn rumbling of iron links running through the hawse pipe . 
Then a solemn silence fell upon the Road stead . 
He will soon be here , I murmured , and after that we waited for him without a word . 
Meantime , raising my eyes , I beheld the glitter of a lofty sky above the Diana's mastheads . 
But long striding footsteps were heard hastening along the deck the high bulwarks of the Diana made a deeper darkness . 
We rose from our chairs quickly , and Falk , appearing before us , all in white , stood still . 
Nobody spoke at first , as though we had been covered with confusion . 
His arrival was fiery , but his white bulk , of indefinite shape and without fea tures , made him loom up like a man of snow . 
The captain here has been telling me . 
Hermann began in a homely and amicable voice and Falk had a low , nervous laugh . 
His cool , neg ligent undertone had no inflexions , but the strength of a powerful emotion made him ramble in his speech . 
He had always desired a home . 
It was difficult to live alone , though he was not answera ble . 
He was domestic there had been difficulties but since he had seen Hermann's niece he found that it had become at last impossible to live by him self . 
I mean impossible , he repeated with no sort of emphasis and only with the slightest of pauses , but the word fell into my mind with the force of a new idea . 
I have not said anything to her yet , Hermann observed quietly . 
And Falk dismissed this by a That's all right . 
There was a necessity for perfect frankness in marrying , especially . 
Hermann seemed attentive , but he seized the first opportunity to ask us into the cabin . 
And by the by , Falk , he said innocent ly , as we passed in , the timber came to no less than forty seven dollars and fifty cents . 
Falk , uncovering his head , lingered in the pas sage . 
Some other time , he said and Hermann nudged me angrily I don't know why . 
The girl alone in the cabin sat sewing at some distance from the table . 
Falk stopped short in the doorway . 
Her hands sank slowly on her lap , and raising her clear eyes , she let her soft , beaming glance enfold him from head to foot like a slow and pale caress . 
It passed away while he was binding us to secrecy . 
Whenever she moved her well shaped head it would stir stiffly to and fro on her back . 
And suddenly I heard Falk's voice declare that he could not marry a woman unless she knew of something in his life that had happened ten years ago . 
It would affect the domestic arrangements of their home , but , once told , it need not be alluded to again for the rest of their lives . 
I should want my wife to feel for me , he said . 
It has made me unhappy . 
Then why not at once ? He counted on Hermann's kindness for presenting the affair in the best possible light . 
And Her mann's countenance , mystified before , became very sour . 
He stole an inquisitive glance at me . 
I shook my head blankly . 
Some people thought , Falk went on , that such an experience changed a man for the rest of his life . 
It was hard , awful , and not to be forgotten , but he did not think himself a worse man than before . 
Only he talked in his sleep now , he believed . 
Throughout he spoke English , of course of my account . 
The girl , with her hands raised before her pale eyes , was threading her needle . 
Imagine to yourselves , he said in his ordinary voice , that I have eaten man . 
I could only ejaculate a faint Ah ! of com plete enlightenment . 
But Hermann , dazed by the excessive shock , actually murmured , Himmel ! What for ? It was my terrible misfortune to do so , said Falk in a measured undertone . 
The girl , uncon scious , sewed on . 
Mrs. Hermann was absent in one of the state rooms , sitting up with Lena , who was feverish but Hermann suddenly put both his hands up with a jerk . 
The embroidered calotte fell , and , in the twinkling of an eye , he had rum pled his hair all ends up in a most extravagant manner . 
In this state he strove to speak with every effort his eyes seemed to start further out of their sockets his head looked like a mop . 
His own , in the blindness of his heart , darted all over the cabin , only seeking to avoid the sight of Hermann's raving . 
It was ridiculous , and was made almost terrible by the stillness of every other person pres ent . 
It was contemptible , and was made appalling by the man's overmastering horror of this awful sincerity , coming to him suddenly , with the confes sion of such a fact . 
He walked with great strides he gasped . 
This man here ought to have gone and hidden himself out of sight instead of . 
But it's a great misfortune for me . 
But it's a great misfortune for me , Falk would ejaculate from time to time . 
However , Hermann kept on running frequently against the corners of the table . 
Did he ? Did he ? Did he ? I tried to restrain him . 
Was it right then for me to die myself ? he asked thoughtfully . 
I laid my hand on his shoul der . 
Go away , I whispered imperiously , without any clear reason for this advice , except that I wished to put an end to Hermann's odious noise . 
He looked searchingly for a moment at Hermann before he made a move . 
I left the cabin too to see him out of the ship . 
But he hung about the quar ter deck . 
It is my misfortune , he said in a steady voice . 
You were stupid to blurt it out in such a man ner . 
After all , we don't hear such confidences every day . 
What does the man mean ? he mused in deep undertones . 
Somebody had to die but why me ? He remained still for a time in the dark silent almost invisible . 
All at once he pinned my elbows to my sides . 
I felt utterly powerless in his grip , and his voice , whispering in my ear , vibrated . 
Captain , do you know what that means ? And I could kill then or be killed . 
I wish the crowbar had smashed my skull ten years ago . 
And I've got to live now . 
Do you understand ? Perhaps many years . 
But how ? What can be done ? If I had allowed myself to look at her once I would have carried her off before that man in my hands like this . 
I felt myself snatched off the deck , then suddenly dropped and I staggered backwards , feeling bewildered and bruised . 
What a man ! All was still he was gone . 
I heard Hermann's voice de claiming in the cabin , and I went in . 
She had not changed her attitude . 
I caught several times the word Mensch , man and also Fressen , which last I looked up afterwards in my dictionary . 
Hermann seemed to be requesting an answer of some sort from her his whole body swayed . 
She remained mute and perfectly still at last his agitation gained her she put the palms of her hands together , her full lips parted , no sound came . 
His voice scolded shrilly , his arms went like a windmill suddenly he shook a thick fist at her . 
She burst out into loud sobs . 
Mrs. Hermann rushed forward babbling rap dly . 
The two women fell on each other's necks , and , with an arm round her niece's waist , she led her away . 
Her own eyes were simply streaming , her face was flooded . 
She shook her head back at me negatively , I wonder why to this day . 
The girl's head dropped heavily on her shoulder . 
Then Hermann sat down and stared at the cabin floor . 
We don't know all the circumstances , I ven tured to break the silence . 
He retorted tartly that he didn't want to know of any . 
According to his ideas no circumstances could excuse a crime and certainly not such a crime . 
This was the opinion generally received . 
The duty of a human being was to starve . 
Falk therefore was a beast , an ani mal base , low , vile , despicable , shameless , and de ceitful . 
He had been deceiving him since last year . 
Why tell ? he cried . 
He would have preferred not to know that such an unclean creature had been in the habit of caressing his children . 
He hoped I would say noth ing of all this ashore , though . 
He wouldn't like it to get about that he had been intimate with an eater of men a common cannibal . 
could not con ceive how any girl could . 
No , it was impossible . 
The thoughts that would come into their heads every time they sat down to a meal . 
Horrible ! Horrible ! You are too squeamish , Hermann , I said . 
I said that I knew nothing about them . 
Could not anybody imagine without knowing ? He for instance felt he would like to avenge them . 
But what if said I there had not been any ? They might have died as it were , naturally of starva tion . 
It is true just as much as you are able to make it and exactly in the way you like to make it . 
For my part , when I hear you clamouring about it , I don't believe it is true at all . 
And I left him pondering . 
The men in my boat lying at the foot of Diana's side ladder told me that the captain of the tug had gone away in his gig some time ago . 
I let my fellows pull an easy stroke because of the heavy dew the clear sparkle of the stars seemed to fall on me cold and wetting . 
There was a sense of lurking gruesome horror somewhere in my mind , and it was mingled with clear and grotesque images . 
Schomberg's gastronomic tittle tattle was responsible for these and I half hoped I should never see Falk again . 
But the first thing my anchor watchman told me was that the captain of the tug was on board . 
He had sent his boat away and was now waiting for me in the cuddy . 
He was lying full length on the stern settee , his face buried in the cushions . 
I had expected to see it discomposed , contorted , despairing . 
It was nothing of the kind it was just as I had seen it twenty times , steady and glaring from the bridge of the tug . 
It was immovably set and hungry , dominated like the whole man by the singleness of one instinct . 
He had always wanted to live . 
So we all do but in us the instinct serves a complex conception , and in him this instinct existed alone . 
There is in such simple development a gi gantic force , and like the pathos of a child's naive nd uncontrolled desire . 
He wanted that girl , and the utmost that can be said for him was that he wanted that particular girl alone . 
He was as frank as a child too . 
He was hungry for the girl , terribly hungry , as he had been terribly hungry for food . 
Don't be shocked if I declare that in my belief it was the same need , the same pain , the same tor ture . 
We are in his case allowed to contemplate the foundation of all the emotions that one joy which is to live , and the one sadness at the root of the innumerable torments . 
It was made plain by the way he talked . 
He had never suffered so . 
It was gnawing , it was fire it was there , like this ! And after pointing below his breastbone , he made a hard wringing motion with his hands . 
And I as sure you that , seen as I saw it with my bodily eyes , it was anything but laughable . 
, and he was ready to tear his hair out at the thought of all that rotten beef thrown away . 
I had heard all this I witnessed his physical struggles , seeing the working of the rack and hear ing the true voice of pain . 
His agitation was impressive and alarming in the little cabin , like the floundering of a great whale driven into a shallow cove in a coast . 
He stood up he flung himself down headlong he tried to tear the cushion with his teeth and again hug ging it fiercely to his face he let himself fall on the couch . 
What should he do ? He had lived by being near her . 
He had sat in the evening I knew ? all his life ! She sewed . 
Her head was bent so . 
Her head like this and her arms . 
Ah ! Had I seen ? Like this . 
He dropped on a stool , bowed his powerful neck whose nape was red , and with his hands stitched the air , ludicrous , sublimely imbecile and compre hensible . 
And now he couldn't have her ? No ! That was too much . 
He lost himself in thought as though he had fallen out of the world . 
I may note that the idea of suicide apparently did not enter his head for a single moment . 
It oc curred to me to ask Where was it that this shipwreck of yours took place ? Down south , he said vaguely with a start . 
You are not down south now , I said . 
They would take her away from you in no time . 
And what was the name of the ship ? Borgmester Dahl , he said . 
It was no ship wreck . 
He seemed to be waking up by degrees from that trance , and waking up calmed . 
Not a shipwreck ? What was it ? Break down , he answered , looking more like himself every moment . 
By this only I learned that it was a steamer . 
I had till then supposed they had been starving in boats or on a raft or per haps on a barren rock . 
She did not sink then ? I asked in surprise . 
We sighted the southern ice , he pronounced dreamily . 
And you alone survived ? He sat down . 
It was a terrible misfor tune for me . 
All the men went wrong . 
Remembering the things one reads of it was diffi cult to realise the true meaning of his answers . 
It was a great misfortune . 
Many heads went wrong , but the best men would live . 
The toughest , you mean , I said . 
He consid ered the word . 
Perhaps it was strange to him , though his English was so good . 
Yes , he asserted at last . 
It was everybody for himself at last and the ship open to all . 
Thus from question to question I got the whole story . 
I fancy it was the only way I could that night have stood by him . 
It was an iron steamer of a most respectable ori gin . 
The burgomaster of Falk's native town had built her . 
She was the first steamer ever launched there . 
The burgomaster's daughter had christened her . 
Country people drove in carts from miles around to see her . 
He told me all this . 
He got the berth as what we should call a chief mate . 
He seemed to think it had been a feather in his cap and , in his own corner of the world , this lover of life was of good parentage . 
The burgomaster had advanced ideas in the ship owning line . 
At that time not every one would have known enough to think of despatching a cargo steamer to the Pacific . 
But he loaded her with pitch pine deals and sent her off to hunt for her luck . 
Wellington was to be the first port , I fancy . 
It doesn't matter , because in latitude d south and somewhere halfway between Good Hope and New Zealand the tail shaft broke and the pro peller dropped off . 
They were steaming then with a fresh gale on the quarter and all their canvas set , to help the en gines . 
But by itself the sail power was not enough to keep way on her . 
When the propeller went the ship broached to at once , and the masts got whipped overboard . 
The disadvantage of being dismasted consisted in this , that they had nothing to hoist flags on to make themselves visible at a distance . 
In the course of the first few days several ships failed to sight them and the gale was drifting them out of the usual track . 
The voyage had been , from the first , neither very successful nor very harmonious . 
There had been quarrels on board . 
The captain was a clever , melancholic man , who had no unusual grip on his crew . 
Afterwards the crew of the Borgmester Dahl thought of that rotten carrion with tears of regret , covetousness and despair . 
To begin with , there had been an appearance of organisation , but soon the bonds of discipline became relaxed . 
They looked with sullen eyes at the hori zon . 
The gales increased she lay in the trough , the seas made a clean breach over her . 
It seems the hatch had not been properly secured . 
This in stance of neglect is characteristic of utter discour agement . 
Falk tried to inspire some energy into his captain , but failed . 
From that time he retired more into himself , always trying to do his utmost in the situation . 
Gale succeeded gale , with black mountains of water hurling them selves on the Borgmester Dahl . 
Some of the men never left their bunks many became quarrelsome . 
The chief engineer , an old man , refused to speak at all to anybody . 
Others shut themselves up in their berths to cry . 
Then the gales came again . 
They kept body and soul together on short rations . 
Once , an English ship , scudding in a storm , tried to stand by them , heaving to pluckily under their lee . 
The seas swept her decks the men in oilskins clinging to her rigging looked at them , and they made des perate signs over their shattered bulwarks . 
Sud denly her main topsail went , yard and all , in a ter rific squall she had to bear up under bare poles , and disappeared . 
Other ships had spoken them before , but at first they had refused to be taken off , expecting the as sistance of some steamer . 
There were very few steamers in those latitudes then and when they desired to leave this dead and drifting carcase , no ship came in sight . 
They had drifted south out of men's knowledge . 
One morning they were alarmed by finding themselves floating amongst detached pieces of ice . 
They hardly noticed the change . 
At first , after the loss of the motive power , the tiller had been thor oughly secured by lashings . 
Nobody cared enough to lift a little finger . 
He told me that even now sometimes waking up at night , he fancied he could hear the dull vibrating thuds . 
The pintles carried away , and it dropped off at last . 
The final catastrophe came with the sending off of their one remaining boat . 
It was Falk who had managed to preserve her intact , and now it was agreed that some of the hands should sail away into the track of the shipping to procure assistance . 
She was provisioned with all the food they could spare for the six who were to go . 
They waited for a fine day . 
It was long in coming . 
At last one morning they lowered her into the water . 
Directly , in that demoralised crowd , trouble broke out . 
The captain , who had been for days living secluded and unapproach able in the chart room , came to the rail . 
He or dered the two men to come up on board and men aced them with his revolver . 
They pretended to obey , but suddenly cutting the boat's painter , gave a shove against the ship's side and made ready to hoist the sail . 
Shoot , sir ! Shoot them down ! cried Falk and I will jump overboard to regain the boat . 
But the captain , after taking aim with an irreso lute arm , turned suddenly away . 
A howl of rage arose . 
Falk dashed into his cabin for his own pistol . 
When he returned it was too late . 
Two more men had leaped into the water , but the fellows in the boat beat them off with the oars , hoisted the boat's lug and sailed away . 
They were never heard of again . 
Consternation and despair possessed the remain ing ship's company , till the apathy of utter hope lessness re asserted its sway . 
That day a fireman committed suicide , running up on deck with his throat cut from ear to ear , to the horror of all hands . 
Next day the doors of the chart room were swinging open to the roll of the ship , and the captain had disappeared . 
He must during the night have jumped into the sea . 
Falk locked both the doors and kept the keys . 
The organised life of the ship had come to an end . 
The solidarity of the men had gone . 
They became indifferent to each other . 
It was Falk who took in hand the distribution of such food as re mained . 
They boiled their boots for soup to eke out the rations , which only made their hunger more intolerable . 
Sometimes whispers of hate were heard passing between the languid skeletons that drifted endlessly to and fro , north and south , east and west , upon that carcase of a ship . 
And in this lies the grotesque horror of this som bre story . 
The last extremity of sailors , overtaking a small boat or a frail craft , seems easier to bear , because of the direct danger of the seas . 
The con fined space , the close contact , the imminent menace of the waves , seem to draw men together , in spite of madness , suffering and despair . 
The lamp oil had been drunk , the wicks cut up for food , the candles eaten . 
At night she floated dark in all her recesses , and full of fears . 
One day Falk came upon a man gnawing a splinter of pine wood . 
Suddenly he threw the piece of wood away , tottered to the rail , and fell over . 
Falk , too late to prevent the act , saw him claw the ship's side desperately before he went down . 
Next day another man did the same thing , after uttering hor rible imprecations . 
But this one somehow man aged to get hold of the broken rudder chains and hung on there , silently . 
Falk set about trying to save him , and all the time the man , holding with both hands , looked at him anxiously with his sunken eyes . 
Then , just as Falk was ready to put his hand on him , the man let go his hold and sank like a stone . 
Falk reflected on these sights . 
His heart revolted against the horror of death , and he said to himself that he would struggle for every pre cious minute of his life . 
One afternoon as the survivors lay about on the after deck the carpenter , a tall man with a black beard , spoke of the last sacrifice . 
There was nothing eatable left on board . 
Nobody said a word to this but that company separated quickly , these listless feeble spectres slunk off one by one to hide in fear of each other . 
Falk and the car penter remained on deck together . 
Falk liked the big carpenter . 
They did not speak to each other . 
Henceforth no voices were to be heard conversing sadly on board that ship . 
After a time the carpenter tot tered away forward but later on , Falk going to drink at the fresh water pump , had the inspiration to turn his head . 
The carpenter had stolen upon him from behind , and , summoning all his strength , was aiming with a crowbar a blow at the back of his skull . 
Dodging just in time , Falk made his escape and ran into his cabin . 
While he was loading his re volver there , he heard the sound of heavy blows struck upon the bridge . 
The locks of the chart room doors were slight , they flew open , and the car penter , possessing himself of the captain's revolver , fired a shot of defiance . 
Falk was about to go on deck and have it out at once , when he remarked that one of the ports of his cabin commanded the approaches to the fresh water pump . 
Instead of going out he remained in and secured the door . 
The best man shall sur vive , he said to himself and the other , he rea soned , must at some time or other come there to drink . 
These starving men would drink often to cheat the pangs of their hunger . 
But the carpen ter too must have noticed the position of the port . 
They were the two best men in the ship , and the game was with them . 
All the rest of the day Falk saw no one and heard no sound . 
At night he strained his eyes . 
It was dark he heard a rustling noise once , but he was certain that no one could have come near the pump . 
It was to the left of his deck port , and he could not have failed to see a man , for the night was clear and starry . 
He saw nothing towards morning another faint noise made him suspicious . 
Deliberately and quietly he unlocked his door . 
He had not slept , and had not given way to the horror of the situation . 
When daylight came he rose up suddenly , looked in , and putting his arm through the round brass framed opening , fired at Falk within a foot . 
The best man had survived . 
At once Falk threw overboard the captain's revolver . 
He was a born monopolist . 
Falk faced them , the possessor of the only fire arm on board , and the second best man the carpenter was lying dead between him and them . 
He was eaten , of course , I said . 
He bent his head slowly , shuddered a little , draw ing his hands over his face , and said , I had never any quarrel with that man . 
But there were our lives between him and me . 
Those starving wretches had plenty of matches ! He had no mind to have the ship set on fire under his feet , either from hate or from despair . 
He lived in the open , camping on the bridge , com manding all the after deck and the only approach to the pump . 
He lived ! Some of the others lived too concealed , anxious , coming out one by one from their hiding places at the seductive sound of a shot . 
And he was not selfish . 
They all died , Falk said . 
These three too , afterwards . 
But I would not die . 
All died , all ! under this terrible misfortune . 
But was I too to throw away my life ? Could I ? Tell me , captain ? I was alone there , quite alone , just like the others . 
It was a great , terrible , and cruel misfortune . 
He had survived ! I saw him before me as though preserved for a witness to the mighty truth of an unerring and eternal principle . 
Great beads of perspiration stood on his forehead . 
And sud denly it struck the table with a heavy blow , as he fell forward throwing his hands out . 
And this is worse , he cried . 
This is a worse pain ! This is more terrible . 
He made my heart thump with the profound con viction of his cries . 
And after he had left me alone I called up before my mental eye the image of the girl weeping silently , abundantly , patiently , and as if irresistibly . 
I thought of her tawny hair . 
I thought how , if unplaited , it would have covered her all round as low as the hips , like the hair of a siren . 
And she had bewitched him . 
She was the tender and voiceless siren of this appalling navigator . 
He evidently wanted to live his whole conception of life . 
And she too was a servant of that life that , in the midst of death , cries aloud to our senses . 
She was eminently fitted to interpret for him its feminine side . 
And in her own way , and with her own profusion of sensuous charms , she also seemed to illustrate the eternal truth of an unerring prin ciple . 
I don't know though what sort of principle Hermann illustrated when he turned up early on board my ship with a most perplexed air . 
It struck me , however , that he too would do his best to survive . 
He seemed greatly calmed on the sub ject of Falk , but still very full of it . 
What is it you said I was last night ? You know , he asked after some preliminary talk . 
Too too I don't know . 
What does it mean ? That you exaggerate things to yourself . 
Without inquiry , and so on . 
He seemed to turn it over in his mind . 
This Falk was the plague of his life . 
Upsetting everybody like this ! Mrs. Hermann was unwell rather this morning . 
His niece was crying still . 
There was nobody to look after the children . 
He struck his umbrella on the deck . 
She would be like that for months . 
Fancy carrying all the way home , second class , a perfectly useless girl who is crying all the time . 
It was bad for Lena too , he observed but on what grounds I could not guess . 
Perhaps of the bad example . 
That child was already sorrowing and crying enough over the rag doll . 
Nicholas was really the least sentimental person of the family . 
Why does she weep ? I asked . 
From pity , cried Hermann . 
It was impossible to make out women . 
Mrs. Her mann was the only one he pretended to understand . 
She was very , very upset and doubtful . 
Doubtful about what ? I asked . 
He averted his eyes and did not answer this . 
It was impossible to make them out . 
For instance , his niece was weeping for Falk . 
would like to wring his neck but then . 
He supposed he had too tender a heart . 
And not letting him recover from his surprise I assured him that I knew all the details . 
He begged me not to repeat them . 
His heart was too tender . 
They made him feel unwell . 
Then , looking at his feet and speaking very slowly , he supposed that he need not see much of them after they were married . 
For , indeed , he could not bear the sight of Falk . 
On the other hand it was ridiculous to take home a girl with her head turned . 
A girl that weeps all the time and is of no help to her aunt . 
Now you will be able to do with one cabin only on your passage home , I said . 
Yes , I had thought of that , he said brightly , almost . 
Yes ! Himself , his wife , four children one cabin might do . 
Whereas if his niece went . 
And what does Mrs. Hermann say to it ? I inquired . 
Mrs. Hermann did not know whether a man of that sort could make a girl happy she had been greatly deceived in Captain Falk . 
She had been very upset last night . 
Those good people did not seem to be able to re tain an impression for a whole twelve hours . 
I assured him on my own personal knowledge that Falk possessed in himself all the qualities to make his niece's future prosperous . 
He said he was glad to hear this , and that he would tell his wife . 
Then the object of the visit came out . 
He wished me to help him to resume relations with Falk . 
His niece , he said , had expressed the hope I would do so in my kindness . 
You told me he was very much in love , he concluded slyly , and leered in a sort of bu colic way . 
As soon as he had left my ship I called Falk on board by signal the tug still lying at the anchor age . 
He took the news with calm gravity , as though he had all along expected the stars to fight for him in their courses . 
I saw them once more together , and only once on the quarter deck of the Diana . 
Hermann sat smoking with a shirt sleeved elbow hooked over the back of his chair . 
Mrs. Hermann was sewing alone . 
As Falk stepped over the gangway , Her mann's niece , with a slight swish of the skirt and a swift friendly nod to me , glided past my chair . 
They met in sunshine abreast of the mainmast . 
He held her hands and looked down at them , and she looked up at him with her candid and unseeing glance . 
It seemed to me they had come together as if attracted , drawn and guided to each other by a mysterious influence . 
They were a complete couple . 
From afar I seemed to feel the masculine strength with which he grasped those hands she had extended to him with a womanly swiftness . 
Lena , come here ! she screamed . 
And this good natured matron gave me a wavering glance , dark and full of fearsome distrust . 
The child ran back , surprised to her knee . 
But the two , stand ing before each other in sunlight with clasped hands , had heard nothing , had seen nothing and no one . 
When I returned in command of another ship , some five years afterwards , Mr. and Mrs. Falk had left the place . 
