Translation by R. C. Seaton , . 
This electronic edition was edited , proofed , and prepared by Douglas B. Killings , January . 
PREPARER'S NOTE Words in CAPITALS are Greek words transliterated into modern characters . 
Original Greek text with side by side English translation . 
Apollonius of Rhodes The Voyage of the Argo . 
RECOMMENDED READING Euripides Medea , Hecabe , Electra , and Heracles , translated by Philip Vellacott . 
Contains four plays by Euripides , two of which concern characters from The Argonautica . 
INTRODUCTION Much has been written about the chronology of Alexandrian literature and the famous Library , founded by Ptolemy Soter , but the dates of the chief writers are still matters of conjecture . 
The birth of Apollonius Rhodius is placed by scholars at various times between and B. C. , while the year of his death is equally uncertain . 
In fact , we have very little information on the subject . 
There are two lives of Apollonius in the Scholia , both derived from an earlier one which is lost . 
Suidas also informs us elsewhere that Aristophanes at the age of sixty two succeeded Apollonius in this office . 
Many modern scholars deny the bibliothecariate of Apollonius for chronological reasons , and there is considerable difficulty about it . 
that are admittedly an allusion to Apollonius , may be put with much probability at or B. C. Apollonius must at that date have been at least twenty years old . 
Eratosthenes died B. C. This would make Apollonius seventy two to seventy five when he succeeded Eratosthenes . 
This is not impossible , it is true , but it is difficult . 
For instance , if the Librarians were buried within the precincts , it would account for the burial of Apollonius next to Callimachus Eratosthenes being still alive . 
However that may be , it is rather arbitrary to take away the bibliothecariate of Apollonius , which is clearly asserted by Suidas , on account of chronological calculations which are themselves uncertain . 
This quarrel appears to have arisen from differences of literary aims and taste , but , as literary differences often do , degenerated into the bitterest personal strife . 
There are references to the quarrel in the writings of both . 
which is of a polemical nature and stands out from the context , and the well known savage epigram upon Callimachus . 
The Ibis has been thought to mark the termination of the feud on the curious ground that it was impossible for abuse to go further . 
It was an age when literary men were more inclined to comment on writings of the past than to produce original work . 
Literature was engaged in taking stock of itself . 
Homer was , of course , professedly admired by all , but more admired than imitated . 
Theocritus agreed with him , both in principle and practice . 
These traits are more prominent in Callimachus than in Apollonius , but they are certainly to be seen in the latter . 
He seems to have written the Argonautica out of bravado , to show that he could write an epic poem . 
But the influence of the age was too strong . 
This occupies the greater part of the third book . 
The first and second books are taken up with the history of the voyage to Colchis , while the fourth book describes the return voyage . 
The Tale of the Argonauts had been told often before in verse and prose , and many authors' names are given in the Scholia to Apollonius , but their works have perished . 
The best known earlier account that we have is that in Pindar's fourth Pythian ode , from which Apollonius has taken many details . 
The learning of Apollonius is not deep but it is curious his general sentiments are not according to the Alexandrian standard , for they are simple and obvious . 
but prosaically calls himself back to the point from these pleasing digressions by such an expression as but this would take me too far from my song . 
His business is the straightforward tale and nothing else . 
The astonishing geography of the fourth book reminds us of the interest of the age in that subject , stimulated no doubt by the researches of Eratosthenes and others . 
The language is that of the conventional epic . 
Apollonius seems to have carefully studied Homeric glosses , and gives many examples of isolated uses , but his choice of words is by no means limited to Homer . 
He freely avails himself of Alexandrian words and late uses of Homeric words . 
In fact Alexandria was a useful bridge between Athens and Rome . 
The Argonautica was translated by Varro Atacinus , copied by Ovid and Virgil , and minutely studied by Valerius Flaccus in his poem of the same name . 
Some of his finest passages have been appropriated and improved upon by Virgil by the divine right of superior genius . 
ENDNOTES Or of Naucratis , according to Aelian and Athenaeus . 
The ship , as former bards relate , Argus wrought by the guidance of Athena . 
First then let us name Orpheus whom once Calliope bare , it is said , wedded to Thracian Oeagrus , near the Pimpleian height . 
Men say that he by the music of his songs charmed the stubborn rocks upon the mountains and the course of rivers . 
Such then was Orpheus whom Aeson's son welcomed to share his toils , in obedience to the behest of Cheiron , Orpheus ruler of Bistonian Pieria . 
Nor did Admetus , the lord of Pherae rich in sheep , stay behind beneath the peak of the Chalcodonian mount . 
From rich Gyrton came Coronus , son of Caeneus , brave , but not braver than his father . 
Moreover Actor sent his son Menoetius from Opus that he might accompany the chiefs . 
Eurytion followed and strong Eribotes , one the son of Teleon , the other of Irus , Actor's son the son of Teleon renowned Eribotes , and of Irus Eurytion . 
A third with them was Oileus , peerless in courage and well skilled to attack the flying foe , when they break their ranks . 
Now from Euboea came Canthus eager for the quest , whom Canethus son of Abas sent but he was not destined to return to Cerinthus . 
For fate had ordained that he and Mopsus , skilled in the seer's art , should wander and perish in the furthest ends of Libya . 
Telamon dwelt in the Attic island but Peleus departed and made his home in Phthia . 
After them from Cecropia came warlike Butes , son of brave Teleon , and Phalerus of the ashen spear . 
Alcon his father sent him forth yet no other sons had he to care for his old age and livelihood . 
But him , his well beloved and only son , he sent forth that amid bold heroes he might shine conspicuous . 
Tritonian Athena herself urged him to join the band of chiefs , and he came among them a welcome comrade . 
She herself too fashioned the swift ship and with her Argus , son of Arestor , wrought it by her counsels . 
Wherefore it proved the most excellent of all ships that have made trial of the sea with oars . 
After them came Phlias from Araethyrea , where he dwelt in affluence by the favour of his father Dionysus , in his home by the springs of Asopus . 
Nor do we learn that Heracles of the mighty heart disregarded the eager summons of Aeson's son . 
Next to him came a scion of the race of divine Danaus , Nauplius . 
But he was left in the city to care for Aleus now growing old , while he gave his son to join his brothers . 
Antaeus went clad in the skin of a Maenalian bear , and wielding in his right hand a huge two edged battleaxe . 
For his armour his grandsire had hidden in the house's innermost recess , to see if he might by some means still stay his departure . 
Asterius and Amphion , sons of Hyperasius , came from Achaean Pellene , which once Pelles their grandsire founded on the brows of Aegialus . 
After them from Taenarus came Euphemus whom , most swift footed of men , Europe , daughter of mighty Tityos , bare to Poseidon . 
He was wont to skim the swell of the grey sea , and wetted not his swift feet , but just dipping the tips of his toes was borne on the watery path . 
No other had come superior to him , I ween , except Heracles , if for one year more he had tarried and been nurtured among the Aetolians . 
Yea , and his uncle , well skilled to fight whether with the javelin or hand to hand , Iphiclus son of Thestius , bare him company on his way . 
Wherefore he was numbered among all the chiefs , winning fame for Jason . 
So many then were the helpers who assembled to join the son of Aeson . 
But the path is not to be shunned , the toil is hard for those who venture . 
Thus they spake here and there throughout the city but the women often raised their hands to the sky in prayer to the immortals to grant a return , their hearts' desire . 
Wretched Alcimede , evil has come to thee at last though late , thou hast not ended with splendour of life . 
Aeson too , ill fated man ! Surely better had it been for him , if he were lying beneath the earth , enveloped in his shroud , still unconscious of bitter toils . 
Thus the women spake at the departure of the heroes . 
And now many thralls , men and women , were gathered together , and his mother , smitten with grief for Jason . 
And a bitter pang seized every woman's heart and with them groaned the father in baleful old age , lying on his bed , closely wrapped round . 
But the hero straightway soothed their pain , encouraging them , and bade the thralls take up his weapons for war and they in silence with downcast looks took them up . 
For to me beyond others the goddess Eileithyia grudged abundant offspring . 
Alas for my folly ! Not once , not even in nay dreams did I forebode this , that the flight of Phrixus would bring me woe . 
Do not , I pray thee , mother , store up bitter sorrows overmuch , for thou wilt not redeem me from evil by tears , but wilt still add grief to grief . 
, and then from the help of the chieftains . 
But do thou remain here , quiet among thy handmaids , and be not a bird of ill omen to the ship and thither my clansmen and thralls will follow me . 
He spake , and started forth to leave the house . 
And he stood at the entering in , and they were gathered to meet him . 
And they perceived Aeastus and Argus coming from the city , and they marvelled when they saw them hasting with all speed , despite the will of Pelias . 
Still Jason forebore from asking them about each point but bade all be seated for an assembly . 
And there , upon the folded sails and the mast as it lay on the ground , they all took their seats in order . 
All the equipment that a ship needs for all is in due order lies ready for our departure . 
Therefore we will make no long delay in our sailing for these things' sake , when the breezes but blow fair . 
For I will not consent , and I will forbid any other to stand up . 
Let the hero who brought us together , himself be the leader of the host . 
If ye entrust your glory to my care , no longer as before let our path be hindered . 
Now at last let us propitiate Phoebus with sacrifice and straightway prepare a feast . 
who by an oracle promised to point out and show me the paths of the sea , if by sacrifice to him I should begin my venture for King Pelias . 
stretching it tight on each side , in order that the planks might be well compacted by the bolts and might withstand the opposing force of the surge . 
And above , on both sides , reversing the oars , they fastened them round the thole pins , so as to project a cubit's space . 
And the heroes themselves stood on both sides at the oars in a row , and pushed forward with chest and hand at once . 
And round the thole pins they fitted the oars , and in the ship they placed the mast and the well made sails and the stores . 
For them alone they left the middle bench just as it was and not by lot and with one consent they entrusted Tiphys with guarding the helm of the well stemmed ship . 
and Embasius , and quickly spread above it logs of dried olive wood . 
Meantime the herdsmen of Aeson's son had driven before them from the herd two steers . 
He spake , and with his prayer cast the barley meal . 
And they two girded themselves to slay the steers , proud Ancaeus and Heracles . 
For you it is the will of heaven and destiny that ye shall return here with the fleece but meanwhile both going and returning , countless trials await you . 
But it is my lot , by the hateful decree of a god , to die somewhere afar off on the mainland of Asia . 
Thus he spake and the youths hearing the divine utterance rejoiced at their return , but grief seized them for the fate of Idmon . 
But here the son of Aeson , all helpless , was brooding over each event in his mind , like one oppressed with thought . 
Son of Aeson , what is this plan thou art turning over in mind . 
Speak out thy thought in the midst . 
, that no woe will be fatal , no venture will be unachieved , while Idas follows , even though a god should oppose thee . 
Such a helpmeet am I that thou bringest from Arene . 
Vain wretch , thou art devising destruction for thyself before the time . 
Come now , tell me this by thy prophetic art , whether for me too the gods will bring to pass such doom as thy father promised for the sons of Aloeus . 
And bethink thee how thou wilt escape from my hands alive , if thou art caught making a prophecy vain as the idle wind . 
He ended , and stayed his lyre and divine voice . 
And a strange cry did the harbour of Pagasae utter , yea and Pelian Argo herself , urging them to set forth . 
For in her a beam divine had been laid which Athena had brought from an oak of Dodona and fitted in the middle of the stem . 
In the middle sat Antaeus and mighty Heracles , and near him he laid his club , and beneath his tread the ship's keel sank deep . 
And now the hawsers were being slipped and they poured wine on the sea . 
But Jason with tears held his eyes away from his fatherland . 
And their arms shone in the sun like flame as the ship sped on and ever their wake gleamed white far behind , like a path seen over a green plain . 
And a breeze came down piping shrilly and upon the deck they fastened the ropes separately round the well polished pins , and ran quietly past the long Tisaean headland . 
Thence going forward they ran past Meliboea , escaping a stormy beach and surf line . 
From there they beheld Eurymenae and the seawashed ravines of Ossa and Olympus next they reached the slopes of Pallene , beyond the headland of Canastra , running all night with the wind . 
For them on that day , till darkness fell , the breeze blew exceedingly fresh , and the sails of the ship strained to it . 
But with the setting of the sun the wind left them , and it was by the oars that they reached Lemnos , the Sintian isle . 
Here the whole of the men of the people together had been ruthlessly slain through the transgressions of the women in the year gone by . 
And fishermen dragged him to shore at the island of Oenoe , formerly Oenoe , but afterwards called Sicinus from Sicinus , whom the water nymph Oenoe bore to Thoas . 
Yet for all that did they often gaze over the broad sea , in grievous fear against the Thracians' coming . 
And they streamed down speechless with dismay such fear was wafted about them . 
Now the Lemnian women fared through the city and sat down to the assembly , for Hypsipyle herself had so bidden . 
Such is our counsel now , but if any of you can devise a better plan let her rise , for it was on this account that I summoned you hither . 
Near her were seated four virgins , unwedded , crowned with white hair . 
Gifts , as Hypsipyle herself wishes , let us send to the strangers , for it is better to give them . 
But I bid you who are younger give good heed to this . 
For now at your feet a way of escape lies open , if ye trust to the strangers the care of your homes and all your stock and your glorious city . 
Thus she spake , and the assembly was filled with clamour . 
For the word pleased them . 
And after her straightway Hypsipyle rose up again , and thus spake in reply . 
If this purpose please you all , now will I even send a messenger to the ship . 
She spake , and dismissed the assembly , and thereafter started to return home . 
And so Iphinoe came to the Minyae and they asked with what intent she had come among them . 
Thus she spake and the speech of good omen pleased all . 
And they deemed that Thoas was dead and that his beloved daughter Hypsipyle was queen , and quickly they sent Jason on his way and themselves made ready to go . 
More easily wouldst thou cast thy eyes upon the sun at its rising than behold that blazing splendour . 
For indeed in the middle the fashion thereof was red , but at the ends it was all purple , and on each margin many separate devices had been skilfully inwoven . 
And in it was Phrixus the Minyan as though he were in very deed listening to the ram , while it was like one speaking . 
Beholding them thou wouldst be silent and wouldst cheat thy soul with the hope of hearing some wise speech from them , and long wouldst thou gaze with that hope . 
Such then were the gifts of the Tritonian goddess Athena . 
And I will tell out truly all our evil plight , that ye yourselves too may know it well . 
But the counsel of the baneful goddess Cypris was working out its accomplishment , who brought upon them soul destroying infatuation . 
Long in truth we endured it , if haply again , though late , they might change their purpose , but ever the bitter woe grew , twofold . 
And the lawful children were being dishonoured in their halls , and a bastard race was rising . 
So they begged of us all the male children that were left in the city and went back to where even now they dwell on the snowy tilths of Thrace . 
But come now , return to the ship and relate my words to thy comrades , and stay not outside our city . 
Hypsipyle , very dear to our hearts is the help we shall meet with , which thou grantest to us who need thee . 
And I will return again to the city when I have told everything in order due . 
But let the sovereignty of the island be thine it is not in scorn I yield it up , but grievous trials urge me on . 
For Cypris stirred in them a sweet desire , for the sake of Hephaestus of many counsels , in order that Lemnos might be again inhabited by men and not be ruined . 
Thus did he chide the band but no one dared to meet his eye or to utter a word in answer . 
But just as they were in the assembly they made ready their departure in all haste , and the women came running towards them , when they knew their intent . 
But thou wilt not have this desire , nor do I myself forbode that so it will be . 
And Aeson's son in admiration thus replied Hypsipyle , so may all these things prove propitious by the favour of the blessed gods . 
daughter of Atlas , in order that by gentle initiation they might learn the rites that may not be uttered , and so with greater safety sail over the chilling sea . 
And leaving Dardania they directed their course to Abydus , and after it they sailed past Percote and the sandy beach of Abarnis and divine Pityeia . 
And in that night , as the ship sped on by sail and oar , they passed right through the Hellespont dark gleaming with eddies . 
And the isthmus has double shores , and they lie beyond the river Aesepus , and the inhabitants round about call the island the Mount of Bears . 
And about the isthmus and the plain the Doliones had their dwelling , and over them Cyzicus son of Aeneus was king , whom Aenete the daughter of goodly Eusorus bare . 
But these men the Earthborn monsters , fearful though they were , in nowise harried , owing to the protection of Poseidon for from him had the Doliones first sprung . 
Thither Argo pressed on , driven by the winds of Thrace , and the Fair haven received her as she sped . 
Here they built an altar to Ecbasian Apollo and set it up on the beach , and gave heed to sacrifices . 
But even so he left his chamber and bridal bed and prepared a banquet among the strangers , casting all fears from his heart . 
And they questioned one another in turn . 
For these dread monsters too , I ween , the goddess Hera , bride of Zeus , had nurtured to be a trial for Heracles . 
But the heroes , when the contest was ended without fear , loosed the ship's hawsers to the breath of the wind and pressed on through the sea swell . 
And they stepped ashore that same night and the rock is still called the Sacred Rock round which they threw the ship's hawsers in their haste . 
Therefore they donned their armour and raised their hands against them . 
Nor was the king to escape his fate and return home from battle to his bridal chamber and bed . 
For that no mortal may escape but on every side a wide snare encompasses us . 
Telamon of the strong spear slew Basileus . 
And Idas slew Promeus , and Clytius Hyacinthus , and the two sons of Tyndareus slew Megalossaces and Phlogius . 
And after them the son of Oeneus slew bold Itomeneus , and Artaceus , leader of men all of whom the inhabitants still honour with the worship due to heroes . 
And the rest gave way and fled in terror just as doves fly in terror before swift winged hawks . 
And with a din they rustled in a body to the gates and quickly the city was filled with loud cries at the turning of the dolorous fight . 
And for three whole days they lamented and rent their hair , they and the Dollones . 
the illustrious name of the hapless maid . 
Here even now , when the Ionians that dwell in Cyzicus pour their yearly libations for the dead , they ever grind the meal for the sacrificial cakes at the common mill . 
After this , fierce tempests arose for twelve days and nights together and kept them there from sailing . 
And some god made it turn aside , and flying aloft it settled upon the stern ornament of the ship . 
of all the blessed gods on her fair throne , and the stormy blasts shall cease . 
For such was the voice I heard but now from the halcyon , bird of the sea , which , as it flew above thee in thy slumber , told me all . 
In like manner the rest of the immortal blessed ones reverence the dread goddess . 
Thus he spake , and his words were welcome to Jason's ear . 
And he arose from his bed with joy and woke all his comrades hurriedly and told them the prophecy of Mopsus the son of Ampycus . 
And quickly the younger men drove oxen from their stalls and began to lead them to the mountain's lofty summit . 
And they loosed the hawsers from the sacred rock and rowed to the Thracian harbour and the heroes climbed the mountain , leaving a few of their comrades in the ship . 
And to them the Macrian heights and all the coast of Thrace opposite appeared to view close at hand . 
And there appeared the misty mouth of Bosporus and the Mysian hills and on the other side the stream of the river Aesepus and the city and Nepeian plain of Adrasteia . 
Hence from that time forward the Phrygians propitiate Rhea with the wheel and the drum . 
And the gracious goddess , I ween , inclined her heart to pious sacrifices and favourable signs appeared . 
The trees shed abundant fruit , and round their feet the earth of its own accord put forth flowers from the tender grass . 
And the beasts of the wild wood left their lairs and thickets and came up fawning on them with their tails . 
Thereupon a spirit of contention stirred each chieftain , who should be the last to leave his oar . 
For all around the windless air smoothed the swirling waves and lulled the sea to rest . 
Nevertheless when the sea was stirred by violent blasts which were just rising from the rivers about evening , forspent with toil , they ceased . 
But Heracles by the might of his arms pulled the weary rowers along all together , and made the strong knit timbers of the ship to quiver . 
And one half he held in both his hands as he fell sideways , the other the sea swept away with its receding wave . 
And he sat up in silence glaring round for his hands were unaccustomed to he idle . 
Them as they came in friendliness , the Mysians , inhabitants of that land , hospitably welcomed , and gave them in their need provisions and sheep and abundant wine . 
And quickly he laid on the ground his arrow holding quiver together with his bow , and took off his lion's skin . 
And at the same time he took up his bow and arrows , his lion skin and club , and started on his return . 
Theiodamas was cleaving with his plough the soil of fallow land when he was smitten with the curse and Heracles bade him give up the ploughing ox against his will . 
For he desired to find some pretext for war against the Dryopians for their bane , since they dwelt there reckless of right . 
But these tales would lead me far astray from my song . 
And quickly Hylas came to the spring which the people who dwell thereabouts call Pegae . 
For the full moon beaming from the sky smote him . 
And Cypris made her heart faint , and in her confusion she could scarcely gather her spirit back to her . 
Alone of his comrades the hero Polyphemus , son of Eilatus , as he went forward on the path , heard the boy's cry , for he expected the return of mighty Heracles . 
Thus vehemently at that time did the son of Eilatus groan and wandered shouting round the spot and his voice rang piteous . 
Hereupon as he brandished his bare sword in his hand he met Heracles himself on the path , and well he knew him as he hastened to the ship through the darkness . 
And straightway he told the wretched calamity while his heart laboured with his panting breath . 
My poor friend , I shall be the first to bring thee tidings of bitter woe . 
Hylas has gone to the well and has not returned safe , but robbers have attacked and are carrying him off , or beasts are tearing him to pieces I heard his cry . 
Thus he spake and when Heracles heard his words , sweat in abundance poured down from his temples and the black blood boiled beneath his heart . 
And in wrath he hurled the pine to the ground and hurried along the path whither his feet bore on his impetuous soul . 
But straightway the morning star rose above the topmost peaks and the breeze swept down and quickly did Tiphys urge them to go aboard and avail themselves of the wind . 
And they embarked eagerly forthwith and they drew up the ship's anchors and hauled the ropes astern . 
And the sails were bellied out by the wind , and far from the coast were they joyfully borne past the Posideian headland . 
And a fierce quarrel fell upon them , and violent tumult , for that they had sailed and left behind the bravest of their comrades . 
And Aeson's son , bewildered by their hapless plight , said never a word , good or bad but sat with his heavy load of grief , eating out his heart . 
But what pleasure is there in words ? For I will go , I only , with none of thy comrades , who have helped thee to plan this treachery . 
He spake , and rushed upon Tiphys son of Hagnias and his eyes sparkled like flashes of ravening flame . 
Hapless ones , assuredly a bitter vengeance came upon them thereafter at the hands of Heracles , because they stayed the search for him . 
These things were thus to be accomplished in after times . 
But a goddess nymph through love has made Hylas her husband , on whose account those two wandered and were left behind . 
Son of Aeson , be not wroth with me , if in my folly I have erred , for grief wrought upon me to utter a word arrogant and intolerable . 
But let me give my fault to the winds and let our hearts be joined as before . 
But not for long will I nurse bitter wrath , though indeed before I was grieved . 
For it was not for flocks of sheep , no , nor for possessions that thou wast angered to fury , but for a man , thy comrade . 
And I were fain thou wouldst even champion me against another man if a like thing should ever befall me . 
He spake , and they sat down , united as of old . 
And he threatened to lay waste the Mysian land at once , should they not discover for him the doom of Hylas , whether living or dead . 
And for him they gave pledges choosing out the noblest sons of the people and took an oath that they would never cease from their labour of search . 
Therefore to this day the people of Cius enquire for Hylas the son of Theiodamas , and take thought for the well built Trachis . 
For there did Heracles settle the youths whom they sent from Cius as pledges . 
And all day long and all night the wind bore the ship on , blowing fresh and strong but when dawn rose there was not even a breath of air . 
And they marked a beach jutting forth from a bend of the coast , very broad to behold , and by dint of rowing came to land at sunrise . 
Or , reading EKTOTHEN , they strongly girded the ship outside with a well twisted rope . 
which were carried loose and only used in stormy weather . 
to avoid grinding it at home . 
Listen , ye wanderers by sea , to what it befits you to know . 
It is the rule that no stranger who comes to the Bebrycians should depart till he has raised his hands in battle against mine . 
Wherefore select your bravest warrior from the host and set him here on the spot to contend with me in boxing . 
But if ye pay no heed and trample my decrees under foot , assuredly to your sorrow will stern necessity come upon you . 
Thus he spake in his pride , but fierce anger seized them when they heard it , and the challenge smote Polydeuces most of all . 
Hold now , and display not to us thy brutal violence , whoever thou art for we will obey thy rules , as thou sayest . 
Willingly now do I myself undertake to meet thee . 
Such was the son of Zeus , the bloom of the first down still on his cheeks , still with the look of gladness in his eyes . 
But his might and fury waxed like a wild beast's and he poised his hands to see if they were pliant as before and were not altogether numbed by toil and rowing . 
And between them Lyeoreus , the henchman of Amycus , placed at their feet on each side two pairs of gauntlets made of raw hide , dry , exceeding tough . 
Whichever of these thou wilt , without casting lots , I grant thee freely , that thou mayst not blame me hereafter . 
Bind them about thy hands thou shalt learn and tell another how skilled I am to carve the dry oxhides and to spatter men's cheeks with blood . 
Now when they stood apart and were ready with their gauntlets , straightway in front of their faces they raised their heavy hands and matched their might in deadly strife . 
And standing a little apart they wiped from their foreheads sweat in abundance , wearily panting for breath . 
Then back they rushed together again , as two bulls fight in furious rivalry for a grazing heifer . 
Nor were the Bebrycians reckless of their king but all together took up rough clubs and spears and rushed straight on Polydeuces . 
But in front of him stood his comrades , their keen swords drawn from the sheath . 
First Castor struck upon the head a man as he rushed at him and it was cleft in twain and fell on each side upon his shoulders . 
And Polydeuces slew huge Itymoneus and Mimas . 
For at that hour their vineyards and villages were being ravaged by the hostile spear of Lycus and the Mariandyni , now that their king was gone . 
For they were ever at strife about the ironbearing land . 
Bethink ye what they would have done in their cowardice if haply some god had brought Heracles hither . 
Yea , we left him uncared for on the strand and we sailed oversea and full well each one of us shall know our baneful folly , now that he is far away . 
Thus he spake , but all these things had been wrought by the counsels of Zeus . 
So they by the steering craft of Tiphys escaped , unhurt but sore dismayed . 
And on the next day they fastened the hawsers to the coast opposite the Bithynian land . 
And he reverenced not a whit even Zeus himself , for he foretold unerringly to men his sacred will . 
But on a sudden , swooping through the clouds , the Harpies with their crooked beaks incessantly snatched the food away from his mouth and hands . 
And at times not a morsel of food was left , at others but a little , in order that he might live and be tormented . 
But when they saw him they gathered round and marvelled . 
Listen , bravest of all the Hellenes , if it be truly ye , whom by a king's ruthless command Jason is leading on the ship Argo in quest of the fleece . 
Even yet my soul by its divination knows everything . 
Thanks I render to thee , O king , son of Leto , plunged in bitter affliction though I be . 
The Harpies , swooping down from some unseen den of destruction , ever snatch the food from my mouth . 
And I have no device to aid me . 
But it were easier , when I long for a meal , to escape my own thoughts than them , so swiftly do they fly through the air . 
But necessity , bitter and insatiate , compels me to abide and abiding to put food in my cursed belly . 
These pests , the oracle declares , the sons of Boreas shall restrain . 
So spake Agenor's son and deep sorrow seized each of the heroes , and especially the two sons of Boreas . 
Unhappy one , none other of men is more wretched than thou , methinks . 
For plain to discern to men of earth are the reproofs of the immortals . 
And we will never check the Harpies when they come , for all our desire , until thou hast sworn that for this we shall not lose the favour of heaven . 
Be silent , store not up such thoughts in thy heart , my child . 
Then were those two eager to help him because of the oath . 
And behind them the two sons of Boreas raising their swords rushed in pursuit . 
And the heroes yielding to the oath , turned back their flight to the ship . 
And on account of this men call them the Islands of Turning though aforetime they called them the Floating Islands . 
And the Harpies and Iris parted . 
They entered their den in Minoan Crete but she sped up to Olympus , soaring aloft on her swift wings . 
Meanwhile the chiefs carefully cleansed the old man's squalid skin and with due selection sacrificed sheep which they had borne away from the spoil of Amycus . 
And when they had laid a huge supper in the hall , they sat down and feasted , and with them feasted Phineus ravenously , delighting his soul , as in a dream . 
And there , when they had taken their fill of food and drink , they kept awake all night waiting for the sons of Boreas . 
And the aged sire himself sat in the midst , near the hearth , telling of the end of their voyage and the completion of their journey Listen then . 
Not everything is it lawful for you to know clearly but whatever is heaven's will , I will not hide . 
I was infatuated aforetime , when in my folly I declared the will of Zeus in order and to the end . 
For he himself wishes to deliver to men the utterances of the prophetic art incomplete , in order that they may still have some need to know the will of heaven . 
First of all , after leaving me , ye will see the twin Cyanean rocks where the two seas meet . 
No one , I ween , has won his escape between them . 
First entrust the attempt to a dove when ye have sent her forth from the ship . 
Wherefore let all else go and labour boldly with might and main , but ere then implore the gods as ye will , I forbid you not . 
But if she flies onward and perishes midway , then do ye turn back for it is better to yield to the immortals . 
For ye could not escape an evil doom from the rocks , not even if Argo were of iron . 
And as these things will fall , so shall they fall . 
Thence ye must turn back a little space through the sea and beach your ship on the land of the Mariandyni lying opposite . 
And near it ye will sail past many hills of the Paphlagonians , over whom at the first Eneteian Pelops reigned , and of his blood they boast themselves to be . 
Now there is a headland opposite Helice the Bear , steep on all sides , and they call it Carambis , about whose crests the blasts of the north wind are sundered . 
So high in the air does it rise turned towards the sea . 
And near them dwell the Tibareni , rich in sheep , beyond the Genetaean headland of Zeus , lord of hospitality . 
In it the Queens of the Amazons , Otrere and Antiope , built a stone temple of Ares what time they went forth to war . 
Now here an unspeakable help will come to you from the bitter sea wherefore with kindly intent I bid you stay . 
And next in order to them dwell the Sapeires , and the Byzeres have the lands adjoining to them , and beyond them at last live the warlike Colchians themselves . 
But speed on in your ship , till ye touch the inmost bourne of the sea . 
And here at the Cytaean mainland and from the Amarantine mountains far away and the Circaean plain , eddying Phasis rolls his broad stream to the sea . 
Thus he spake , and straightway fear seized them as they heard . 
But , my friends , take thought of the artful aid of the Cyprian goddess . 
For on her depends the glorious issue of your venture . 
And further than this ask me not . 
Then in the mansion all their comrades were joyful at the tidings and so was Phineus himself . 
But instead of that , may the god grant me death at once , and after death I shall take my share in perfect bliss . 
And with them came Paraebius , who was dearest to him , and gladly did he perceive these strangers in the house . 
O my friends , not all men are arrogant , it seems , nor unmindful of benefits . 
Even as this man , loyal as he is , came hither to learn his fate . 
But he was paying the sad penalty of his father's sin . 
So to him the nymph thereafter made her death a curse , to him and to his children . 
Thus spake Agenor's son and his friend straightway came near leading two sheep from the flock . 
And up rose Jason and up rose the sons of Boreas at the bidding of the aged sire . 
And quickly they called upon Apollo , lord of prophecy , and offered sacrifice upon the health as the day was just sinking . 
And the younger comrades made ready a feast to their hearts' desire . 
Thereupon having well feasted they turned themselves to rest , some near the ship's hawsers , others in groups throughout the mansion . 
And at dawn the Etesian winds blew strongly , which by the command of Zeus blow over every land equally . 
Cyrene , the tale goes , once tended sheep along the marsh meadow of Peneus among men of old time for dear to her were maidenhood and a couch unstained . 
And here to Phoebus she bore Aristaeus whom the Haemonians , rich in corn land , call Hunter and Shepherd . 
So the tale is told , but the chieftains stayed there by constraint , and every day the Thynians , doing pleasure to Phineus , sent them gifts beyond measure . 
And as they rounded a bend they saw the rocks opening for the last time of all . 
And the foam leapt up in a mass like a cloud awful was the thunder of the sea and all round them the mighty welkin roared . 
The hollow caves beneath the rugged cliffs rumbled as the sea came surging in and the white foam of the dashing wave spurted high above the cliff . 
Next the current whirled the ship round . 
And the rocks shore away the end of the dove's tail feathers but away she flew unscathed . 
And the rowers gave a loud cry and Tiphys himself called to them to row with might and main . 
For the rocks were again parting asunder . 
But as they rowed they trembled , until the tide returning drove them back within the rocks . 
Then most awful fear seized upon all for over their head was destruction without escape . 
For it seemed about to leap down upon the ship's whole length and to overwhelm them . 
But Euphemus strode among all his comrades and cried to them to bend to their oars with all their might and they with a shout smote the water . 
Then a vaulted billow rushed upon them , and the ship like a cylinder ran on the furious wave plunging through the hollow sea . 
And the eddying current held her between the clashing rocks and on each side they shook and thundered and the ship's timbers were held fast . 
Then Athena with her left hand thrust back one mighty rock and with her right pushed the ship through and she , like a winged arrow , sped through the air . 
Nevertheless the rocks , ceaselessly clashing , shore off as she passed the extreme end of the stern ornament . 
But Athena soared up to Olympus , when they had escaped unscathed . 
And the heroes breathed again after their chilling fear , beholding at the same time the sky and the expanse of sea spreading far and wide . 
He spake , and at once he sped the ship onward through the midst of the sea past the Bithynian coast . 
But Jason with gentle words addressed him in reply Tiphys , why dost thou comfort thus my grieving heart ? I have erred and am distraught in wretched and helpless ruin . 
For on every side are unkindly men . 
Thus he spake , making trial of the chiefs but they shouted loud with cheerful words . 
My friends , in your valour my courage is quickened . 
Wherefore now , even though I should take my way through the gulfs of Hades , no more shall I let fear seize upon me , since ye are steadfast amid cruel terrors . 
Helpless amazement seized them as they looked and no one dared to gaze face to face into the fair eyes of the god . 
And now I bid you propitiate him with the steam of sacrifice and libations . 
Be gracious , O king , be gracious in thy appearing . 
Mayst thou be gracious ! Ever , O king , be thy locks unshorn , ever unravaged for so is it right . 
And none but Leto , daughter of Coeus , strokes them with her dear hands . 
And often the Corycian nymphs , daughters of Pleistus , took up the cheering strain crying Healer hence arose this lovely refrain of the hymn to Phoebus . 
Now when the third morning came , with a fresh west wind they left the lofty island . 
During the night the wind ceased and at dawn they gladly reached the haven of the Acherusian headland . 
And from it towards the land a hollow glen slopes gradually away , where there is a cave of Hades overarched by wood and rocks . 
From here an icy breath , unceasingly issuing from the chill recess , ever forms a glistening rime which melts again beneath the midday sun . 
And never does silence hold that grim headland , but there is a continual murmur from the sounding sea and the leaves that quiver in the winds from the cave . 
And here is the outfall of the river Acheron which bursts its way through the headland and falls into the Eastern sea , and a hollow ravine brings it down from above . 
when they were about to settle in the land of the Mariandyni . 
For indeed the river saved them with their ships when they were caught in a violent tempest . 
the Acherusian headland and came to land over against it as the wind had just ceased . 
And Polydeuces himself they welcomed as a god , flocking from every side , since for a long time had they been warring against the arrogant Bebrycians . 
And so they went up all together into the city , and all that day with friendly feelings made ready a feast within the palace of Lycus and gladdened their souls with converse . 
Wherefore whatever requital I am now able to pay , gladly will I pay it , for that is the rule for weaker men when the stronger begin to help them . 
Thus all day long they revelled at the banquet . 
And here his destined fate smote Idmon , son of Abas , skilled in soothsaying but not at all did his soothsaying save him , for necessity drew him on to death . 
And with a sharp cry the hero fell to the ground and as he was struck his comrades flocked together with answering cry . 
And here they stayed from taking thought for their voyaging and abode in grief for the burial of their dead friend . 
Who was the next that died ? For then a second time the heroes heaped up a barrow for a comrade dead . 
For still are to be seen two monuments of those heroes . 
The tale goes that Tiphys son of Hagnias died nor was it his destiny thereafter to sail any further . 
But him there on the spot a short sickness laid to rest far from his native land , when the company had paid due honours to the dead son of Abas . 
And at the cruel woe they were seized with unbearable grief . 
Wherefore , I pray , let there be no fear for the ship . 
And so there are here other men of skill , of whom none will harm our voyaging , whomsoever we set at the helm . 
But quickly tell forth all this and boldly urge them to call to mind their task . 
Wherefore let us not delay our attempt , but rouse yourselves to the work and cast away your griefs . 
Thus he spake , but Ancaeus quickly undertook to guide the swift ship for he was stirred by the impulse of the goddess . 
And after him Erginus and Nauplius and Euphemus started up , eager to steer . 
But the others held them back , and many of his comrades granted it to Ancaeus . 
So on the twelfth day they went aboard at dawn , for a strong breeze of westerly wind was blowing . 
And again he entered the vast gloom and they looked and marvelled and Mopsus , son of Ampycus , with word of prophecy urged them to land and propitiate him with libations . 
And besides the drink offerings they built an altar to Apollo , saviour of ships , and burnt thigh bones and Orpheus dedicated his lyre whence the place has the name of Lyra . 
Then they sped onward in the night without ceasing , and passed Sesamus and lofty Erythini , Crobialus , Cromna and woody Cytorus . 
Next they swept round Carambis at the rising of the sun , and plied the oars past long Aegialus , all day and on through the night . 
And straightway they landed on the Assyrian shore where Zeus himself gave a home to Sinope , daughter of Asopus , and granted her virginity , beguiled by his own promises . 
For he longed for her love , and he promised to grant her whatever her hearts desire might be . 
And she in her craftiness asked of him virginity . 
And in like manner she deceived Apollo too who longed to wed her , and besides them the river Halys , and no man ever subdued her in love's embrace . 
blew went on ship board . 
In the bay of this headland , at the outfall of Thermodon , they ran ashore , for the sea was rough for their voyage . 
No river is like this , and none sends forth from itself such mighty streams over the land . 
If a man should count every one he would lack but four of a hundred , but the real spring is only one . 
This flows down to the plain from lofty mountains , which , men say , are called the Amazonian mountains . 
For they dwelt not gathered together in one city , but scattered over the land , parted into three tribes . 
In one part dwelt the Themiscyreians , over whom at that time Hippolyte reigned , in another the Lycastians , and in another the dart throwing Chadesians . 
And the next day they sped on and at nightfall they reached the land of the Chalybes . 
That folk have no care for ploughing with oxen or for any planting of honey sweet fruit nor yet do they pasture flocks in the dewy meadow . 
And straightway thereafter they rounded the headland of Genetaean Zeus and sped safely past the land of the Tibareni . 
Next they reached the sacred mount and the land where the Mossynoeci dwell amid high mountains in wooden huts , from which that people take their name . 
And strange are their customs and laws . 
They passed them by and cleft their way with oars over against the island of Ares all day long for at dusk the light breeze left them . 
At last they spied above them , hurtling through the air , one of the birds of Ares which haunt that isle . 
The island of Ares is near us you know it yourselves now that ye have seen these birds . 
But little will arrows avail us , I trow , for landing . 
But let us contrive some other device to help us , if ye intend to land , bearing in mind the injunction of Phineus . 
For not even could Heracles , when he came to Arcadia , drive away with bow and arrow the birds that swam on the Stymphalian lake . 
Wherefore now too let us contrive some such device , and I myself will speak , having pondered the matter beforehand . 
Set on your heads your helmets of lofty crest , then half row by turns , and half fence the ship about with polished spears and shields . 
Then all together raise a mighty shout so that the birds may be scared by the unwonted din , the nodding crests , and the uplifted spears on high . 
And if we reach the island itself , then make mighty noise with the clashing of shields . 
Thus he spake , and the helpful device pleased all . 
And on their heads they placed helmets of bronze , gleaming terribly , and the blood red crests were tossing . 
And half of them rowed in turn , and the rest covered the ship with spears and shields . 
And as a din arises from a warrior host of men sweeping on , when lines of battle meet , such a shout rose upward from the ship into the air . 
Now they saw none of the birds yet , but when they touched the island and clashed upon their shields , then the birds in countless numbers rose in flight hither and thither . 
And lo , on that day they were very near that island . 
And so the sons of Phrixus , drenched and trembling in fear of a horrible doom , were borne along by the waves helplessly . 
And the force of the wind had snatched away their sails and shattered in twain the hull , tossed as it was by the breakers . 
And hereupon by heaven's prompting those four clutched a huge beam , one of many that were scattered about , held together by sharp bolts , when the ship broke to pieces . 
And on to the island the waves and the blasts of wind bore the men in their distress , within a little of death . 
And straightway a mighty rain burst forth , and rained upon the sea and the island , and all the country opposite the island , where the arrogant Mossynoeci dwelt . 
We beseech you , by Zeus the Beholder , whoever ye are , to be kindly and to help us in our need . 
For fierce tempests , falling on the sea , have shattered all the timbers of the crazy ship in which we were cleaving our path on business bent . 
Oh , reverence suppliants and strangers for Zeus' sake , the god of strangers and suppliants . 
To Zeus belong both suppliants and strangers and his eye , methinks , beholdeth even us . 
And in reply the son of Aeson prudently questioned him , deeming that the prophecies of Phineus were being fulfilled All these things will we straightway grant you with right good will . 
But come tell me truly in what country ye dwell and what business bids you sail across the sea , and tell me your own glorious names and lineage . 
The ram , at its own prompting , he then sacrificed to Zeus , son of Cronos , above all , the god of fugitives . 
And him did Aeetes receive in his palace , and with gladness of heart gave him his daughter Chalciope in marriage without gifts of wooing . 
From those two are we sprung . 
And if thou dost desire to learn our names , this is Cytissorus , this Phrontis , and this Melas , and me ye may . 
Thus he spake , and the chieftains rejoiced at the meeting , and tended them , much marvelling . 
Surely ye are our kinsmen on my father's side , and ye pray that with kindly hearts we succour your evil plight . 
For Cretheus and Athamas were brothers . 
I am the grandson of Cretheus , and with these comrades here I am journeying from that same Hellas to the city of Aeetes . 
But of these things we will converse hereafter . 
And do ye first put clothing upon you . 
By heaven's devising , I ween , have ye come to my hands in your sore need . 
He spake , and out of the ship gave them raiment to put on . 
And on board this ship ye may sail hither and thither , where ye will , whether to Aea or to the wealthy city of divine Orthomenus . 
For our ship Athena built and with axe of bronze cut her timbers near the crest of Pelion , and with the goddess wrought Argus . 
But yours the fierce surge hath shattered , before ye came nigh to the rocks which all day long clash together in the straits of the sea . 
He spake with soothing words but horror seized them when they heard . 
For they deemed that they would not find Aeetes friendly if they desired to take away the ram's fleece . 
My friends , our strength , so far as it avails , shall never cease to help you , not one whit , when need shall come . 
But Aeetes is terribly armed with deadly ruthlessness wherefore exceedingly do I dread this voyage . 
And he boasts himself to be the son of Helios and all round dwell countless tribes of Colchians and he might match himself with Ares in his dread war cry and giant strength . 
Thus he spake , and straightway many a cheek grew pale when they heard of so mighty an adventure . 
But quickly Peleus answered with cheering words , and thus spake Be not so fearful in spirit , my good friend . 
Wherefore if he will not grant us the fleece of gold for friendship's sake , the tribes of the Colchians will not avail him , I ween . 
Thus they addressed each other in turn , until again , satisfied with their feast , they turned to rest . 
High above the ship at even they saw it flying with a loud whirr , near the clouds and yet it shook all the sails with the fanning of those huge wings . 
For it had not the form of a bird of the air but kept poising its long wing feathers like polished oars . 
And at night , by the skill of Argus , they reached broad flowing Phasis , and the utmost bourne of the sea . 
And soon the dawn appeared to their expectant eyes . 
through the ravine that divides the headland . 
without exacting gifts from the bridegroom . 
Agamemnon offers Achilles any of his three daughters ANAEONOS . 
Come now , Erato , stand by my side , and say next how Jason brought back the fleece to Iolcus aided by the love of Medea . 
For thou sharest the power of Cypris , and by thy love cares dost charm unwedded maidens wherefore to thee too is attached a name that tells of love . 
Still it is right to shrink from no endeavour . 
Thus she spake , and at once Athena addressed her I too was pondering such thoughts in my heart , Hera , when thou didst ask me outright . 
But not yet do I think that I have conceived a scheme to aid the courage of the heroes , though I have balanced many plans . 
speed his shaft at the daughter of Aeetes , the enchantress , and charm her with love for Jason . 
And I deem that by her device he will bring back the fleece to Hellas . 
Hera , my father begat me to be a stranger to the darts of love , nor do I know any charm to work desire . 
But if the word pleases thee , surely I will follow but thou must speak when we meet her . 
And entering the court they stood beneath the gallery of the chamber where the goddess prepared the couch of Hephaestus . 
Then she herself sat down , and with her hands gathered up the locks still uncombed . 
And to her Hera replied Thou dost mock us , but our hearts are stirred with calamity . 
For already on the river Phasis the son of Aeson moors his ship , he and his comrades in quest of the fleece . 
but most for Aeson's son . 
And he took pity on me in the likeness of an old crone , and raising me on his shoulders himself bore me through the headlong tide . 
So he is honoured by me unceasingly nor will Pelias pay the penalty of his outrage , unless thou wilt grant Jason his return . 
Thus she spake , and speechlessness seized Cypris . 
She spake , and Hera again addressed her with prudence It is not in need of might or of strength that we have come . 
But just quietly bid thy boy charm Aeetes' daughter with love for Jason . 
For if she will aid him with her kindly counsel , easily do I think he will win the fleece of gold and return to Iolcus , for she is full of wiles . 
Thus she spake , and Cypris addressed them both Hera and Athena , he will obey you rather than me . 
For unabashed though he is , there will be some slight shame in his eyes before you but he has no respect for me , but ever slights me in contentious mood . 
And , overborne by his naughtiness , I purpose to break his ill sounding arrows and his bow in his very sight . 
For in his anger he has threatened that if I shall not keep my hands off him while he still masters his temper , I shall have cause to blame myself thereafter . 
So she spake , and the goddesses smiled and looked at each other . 
But Cypris again spoke , vexed at heart To others my sorrows are a jest nor ought I to tell them to all I know them too well myself . 
But now , since this pleases you both , I will make the attempt and coax him , and he will not say me nay . 
She spake , and left her seat , and Athena accompanied her and they went forth both hastening back . 
And Cypris went on her way through the glens of Olympus to find her boy . 
And they were playing for golden dice , as boys in one house are wont to do . 
And lo , losing them straightway with the former , he went off empty handed , helpless , and noticed not the approach of Cypris . 
All of gold are its zones , and round each double seams run in a circle but the stitches are hidden , and a dark blue spiral overlays them all . 
But if thou shouldst cast it with thy hands , lo , like a star , it sends a flaming track through the sky . 
This I will give thee and do thou strike with thy shaft and charm the daughter of Aeetes with love for Jason and let there be no loitering . 
For then my thanks would be the slighter . 
Thus she spake , and welcome were her words to the listening boy . 
And he threw down all his toys , and eagerly seizing her robe on this side and on that , clung to the goddess . 
Be witness now thy dear head and mine , that surely I will give thee the gift and deceive thee not , if thou wilt strike with thy shaft Aeetes' daughter . 
She spoke , and he gathered up his dice , and having well counted them all threw them into his mother's gleaming lap . 
And straightway with golden baldric he slung round him his quiver from where it leant against a tree trunk , and took up his curved bow . 
And he fared forth through the fruitful orchard of the palace of Zeus . 
Now the heroes apart in ambush , in a back water of the river , were met in council , sitting on the benches of their ship . 
And let us not merely by force , before putting words to the test , deprive him of his own possession . 
But first it is better to go to him and win his favour by speech . 
Oftentimes , I ween , does speech accomplish at need what prowess could hardly catty through , smoothing the path in manner befitting . 
And he once welcomed noble Phrixus , a fugitive from his stepmother's wiles and the sacrifice prepared by his father . 
For all men everywhere , even the most shameless , reverence the ordinance of Zeus , god of strangers , and regard it . 
Thus he spake , and the youths approved the words of Aeson's son with one accord , nor was there one to counsel otherwise . 
The plain , I wis , is called Circe's and here in line grow many willows and osiers , on whose topmost branches hang corpses bound with cords . 
And so earth has an equal portion with air , seeing that they bury the women for that is the custom of their land . 
And as they went Hera with friendly thought spread a thick mist through the city , that they might fare to the palace of Aeetes unseen by the countless hosts of the Colchians . 
But soon when from the plain they came to the city and Aeetes' palace , then again Hera dispersed the mist . 
And silently they crossed the threshold . 
And close by garden vines covered with green foliage were in full bloom , lifted high in air . 
And beneath them ran four fountains , ever flowing , which Hephaestus had delved out . 
Such then were the wondrous works that the craftsman god Hephaestus had fashioned in the palace of Cytaean Aeetes . 
And here an inner court was built , and round it were many well fitted doors and chambers here and there , and all along on each side was a richly wrought gallery . 
And on both sides loftier buildings stood obliquely . 
because he outshone all the youths . 
The other buildings the handmaidens had , and the two daughters of Aeetes , Chalciope and Medea . 
After all then , ye were not destined to leave me in your heedlessness and to wander far but fate has turned you back . 
Poor wretch that I am ! What a yearning for Hellas from some woeful madness seized you at the behest of your father Phrixus . 
Bitter sorrows for my heart did he ordain when dying . 
Meantime Eros passed unseen through the grey mist , causing confusion , as when against grazing heifers rises the gadfly , which oxherds call the breese . 
And quickly beneath the lintel in the porch he strung his bow and took from the quiver an arrow unshot before , messenger of pain . 
Now when the thralls had laid a banquet ready before them , and they had refreshed themselves with warm baths , gladly did they please their souls with meat and drink . 
in the murky night and some god preserved us . 
For even the birds of Ares that haunted the desert isle beforetime , not even them did we find . 
And if thou dost wish to know their errand , I will not hide it from time . 
And their ship was fashioned by Pallas Athena , not such a one as are the ships among the Colchians , on the vilest of which we chanced . 
For the fierce waves and wind broke her utterly to pieces but the other holds firm with her bolts , even though all the blasts should buffet her . 
And with equal swiftness she speedeth before the wind and when the crew ply the oar with unresting hands . 
But as thou dost please , so shall it be , for he cometh not to use force , but is eager to pay thee a recompense for the gift . 
He has heard from me of thy bitter foes the Sauromatae , and he will subdue them to thy sway . 
And if thou desirest to know their names and lineage I will tell thee all . 
This man on whose account the rest were gathered from Hellas , they call Jason , son of Aeson , whom Cretheus begat . 
And if in truth he is of the stock of Cretheus himself , thus he would be our kinsman on the father's side . 
For Cretheus and Athamas were both sons of Aeolus and Phrixus was the son of Athamas , son of Aeolus . 
And here , if thou hast heard at all of the seed of Helios , thou dost behold Augeias and this is Telamon sprung from famous Aeacus and Zeus himself begat Aeacus . 
And so all the rest , all the comrades that follow him , are the sons or grandsons of the immortals . 
Such was the tale of Argus but the king at his words was filled with rage as he heard and his heart was lifted high in wrath . 
Begone from my sight , felons , straightway , ye and your tricks , from the land , ere someone see a fleece and a Phrixus to his sorrow . 
Banded together with your friends from Hellas , not for the fleece , but to seize my sceptre and royal power have ye come hither . 
For not in the way thou deemest have we come to thy city and palace , no , nor yet with such desires . 
For who would of his own will dare to cross so wide a sea for the goods of a stranger ? But fate and the ruthless command of a presumptuous king urged me . 
For against brave men I bear no grudge , such as ye yourselves tell me of him who bears sway in Hellas . 
And the trial of your courage and might shall be a contest which I myself can compass with my hands , deadly though it be . 
In the morning do I yoke the oxen , and at eventide I cease from the harvesting . 
For indeed it is unseemly that a brave man should yield to a coward . 
Thus he spake and Jason , fixing his eyes on the ground , sat just as he was , speechless , helpless in his evil plight . 
With thy plea of right , Aeetes , thou dost shut me in overmuch . 
Wherefore also I will dare that contest , monstrous as it is , though it be my doom to die . 
For nothing will fall upon men more dread than dire necessity , which indeed constrained me to come hither at a king's command . 
So they passed forth from the palace sorely troubled . 
And Chalciope , shielding herself from the wrath of Aeetes , had gone quickly to her chamber with her sons . 
And Medea likewise followed , and much she brooded in her soul all the cares that the Loves awaken . 
Why does this grief come upon me , poor wretch ? Whether he be the best of heroes now about to perish , or the worst , let him go to his doom . 
Thus then was the maiden's heart racked by love cares . 
Son of Aeson , thou wilt despise the counsel which I will tell thee , but , though in evil plight , it is not fitting to forbear from the trial . 
Ere now thou hast heard me tell of a maiden that uses sorcery under the guidance of Hecate , Perses' daughter . 
Nevertheless I will go back again to entreat her , for a common destruction overhangs us all . 
He spake with goodwill , and Jason answered with these words Good friend , if this is good in thy sight , I say not nay . 
Go and move thy mother , beseeching her aid with prudent words pitiful indeed is our hope when we have put our return in the keeping of women . 
So he spake , and quickly they reached the back water . 
He said that two bulls with feet of bronze pasture on the plain of Ares , breathing forth flame from their jaws . 
This task for there was nothing better to devise I took on myself outright . 
Yet there is not so much profit , I trow , in counsel as in the might of our hands . 
If thou then , hero son of Aeson , art minded to yoke Aeetes' oxen , and art eager for the toil , surely thou wilt keep thy promise and make thyself ready . 
But if thy soul trusts not her prowess utterly , then neither bestir thyself nor sit still and look round for some one else of these men . 
For it is not I who will flinch , since the bitterest pain will be but death . 
But the others gave way to these in silence . 
And straightway Argus spake these words to those that longed for the contest My friends , this indeed is left us at the last . 
But I deem that there will come to you some timely aid from my mother . 
Wherefore , eager though ye be , refrain and abide in your ship a little longer as before , for it is better to forbear than recklessly to choose an evil fate . 
There is a maiden , nurtured in the halls of Aeetes , whom the goddess Hecate taught to handle magic herbs with exceeding skill all that the land and flowing waters produce . 
Thus he spake , and the gods in their goodwill gave them a sign . 
A trembling dove in her flight from a mighty hawk fell from on high , terrified , into the lap of Aeson's son , and the hawk fell impaled on the stern ornament . 
And I think she will not reject our prayer , if in truth Phineus said that our return should be with the help of the Cyprian goddess . 
Such were his eager words and of his comrades many murmured low , but none uttered a word of answer back . 
For surely it is not fitting for us to hide any longer cowering from the battle cry . 
But straightway Aeetes held an assembly of the Colchians far aloof from his palace at a spot where they sat in times before , to devise against the Minyae grim treachery and troubles . 
Wherefore he was sending them , as they desired , to the Achaean land at the bidding of their father a long journey . 
And he proclaimed terrible things in his rage against the strangers , and loudly threatened to keep watch over the ship and its crew , so that no one might escape calamity . 
Now a deep slumber had relieved the maiden from her love pains as she lay upon her couch . 
But straightway fearful dreams , deceitful , such as trouble one in grief , assailed her . 
But she suddenly , neglecting her parents , chose the stranger . 
And measureless anguish seized them and they shouted out in their wrath and with the cry sleep released its hold upon her . 
Poor wretch , how have gloomy dreams affrighted me ! I fear that this voyage of the heroes will bring some great evil . 
My heart is trembling for the stranger . 
Let him woo some Achaean girl far away among his own folk let maidenhood be mine and the home of my parents . 
Thrice she made the attempt and thrice she checked herself , the fourth time she fell on her bed face downward , writhing in pain . 
And when Chalciope heard the strange tale from the handmaid , not even so did she disregard it . 
Thus she spake , and her sister's cheeks flushed and though she was eager to reply , long did maiden shame restrain her . 
At one moment the word rose on the end of her tongue , at another it fluttered back deep within her breast . 
Chalciope , my heart is all trembling for thy sons , lest my father forthwith destroy them together with the strangers . 
She spake , making trial of her sister to see if she first would entreat help for her sons . 
But swear by Earth and Heaven that thou wilt keep secret in thy heart what I shall tell thee , and be fellow worker with me . 
Thus she spake , and straightway a torrent of tears gushed forth and low down she clasped her sister's knees with both hands and let her head sink on to her breast . 
Then they both made piteous lamentation over each other , and through the halls rose the faint sound of women weeping in anguish . 
Thus Chalciope went back from the chamber , and made known to her sons the help given by her sister . 
And again did shame and hateful fear seize Medea thus left alone , that she should devise such deeds for a man in her father's despite . 
But not indeed upon Medea came sweet sleep . 
Poor wretch , must I toss hither and thither in woe ? On every side my heart is in despair nor is there any help for my pain but it burneth ever thus . 
Would that I had been slain by the swift shafts of Artemis before I had set eyes on him , before Chalciope's sons reached the Achaean land . 
Some god or some Fury brought them hither for our grief , a cause of many tears . 
Let him perish in the contest if it be his lot to die in the field . 
Perish all shame , perish all glow may he , saved by my effort , go scatheless wherever his heart desires . 
She spake , and brought a casket wherein lay many drugs , some for healing , others for killing , and placing it upon her knees she wept . 
And she drenched her bosom with ceaseless tears , which flowed in torrents as she sat , bitterly bewailing her own fate . 
And long she held back in speechless horror , and all around her thronged visions of the pleasing cares of life . 
Then Argus bade his brothers remain there to learn the maiden's mind and plans , but himself turned back and went to the ship . 
And there , moving to and fro in the palace , she trod the ground forgetful of the heaven sent woes thronging round her and of others that were destined to follow . 
And she called to her maids . 
Thereupon the handmaids were making ready the chariot and Medea meanwhile took from the hollow casket a charm which men say is called the charm of Prometheus . 
It shot up first born when the ravening eagle on the rugged flanks of Caucasus let drip to the earth the blood like ichor of tortured Prometheus . 
And its flower appeared a cubit above ground in colour like the Corycian crocus , rising on twin stalks but in the earth the root was like newly cut flesh . 
And beneath , the dark earth shook and bellowed when the Titanian root was cut and the son of Iapetus himself groaned , his soul distraught with pain . 
And she brought the charm forth and placed it in the fragrant band which engirdled her , just beneath her bosom , divinely fair . 
And going forth she mounted the swift chariot , and with her went two handmaidens on each side . 
Friends , verily have I sinned greatly and took no heed not to go among the stranger folk who roam over our land . 
The whole city is smitten with dismay wherefore no one of the women who formerly gathered here day by day has now come hither . 
And with many a gift shall ye reach home this very day , if ye will gladden me with this desire of mine . 
For Argus pleads with me , also Chalciope herself but this that ye hear from me keep silently in your hearts , lest the tale reach my father's ears . 
As for yon stranger who took on him the task with the oxen , they bid me receive his gifts and rescue him from the deadly contest . 
But when he comes , do ye stand aloof . 
So she spake , and the crafty counsel pleased them all . 
Even his comrades wondered as they gazed upon him , radiant with manifold graces and the son of Ampycus rejoiced in their journey , already foreboding how all would end . 
Now by the path along the plain there stands near the shrine a poplar with its crown of countless leaves , whereon often chattering crows would roost . 
Begone , sorry prophet , witless one on thee neither Cypris nor the gentle Loves breathe in their kindness . 
But we two , Argus and I , will await thy return , apart in this very spot do thou all alone be a suppliant and win her over with prudent words . 
He spake wisely , and both at once gave approval . 
Nor was Medea's heart turned to other thoughts , for all her singing , and never a song that she essayed pleased her long in her sport . 
Oft did her heart sink fainting within her bosom whenever she fancied she heard passing by the sound of a footfall or of the wind . 
Her heart fell from out her bosom , and a dark mist came over her eyes , and a hot blush covered her cheeks . 
And she had no strength to lift her knees backwards or forwards , but her feet beneath were rooted to the ground and meantime all her handmaidens had drawn aside . 
Wherefore , maiden , be not too much abashed before me , either to enquire whatever thou wilt or to speak thy mind . 
For without thee and thy sister never shall I prevail in the grievous contest . 
In days past the maiden Ariadne , daughter of Minos , with kindly intent rescued Theseus from grim contests the maiden whom Pasiphae daughter of Helios bare . 
So to thee too shall be thanks from the gods , if thou wilt save so mighty an array of chieftains . 
For surely from thy lovely form thou art like to excel in gentle courtest . 
And forth from her fragrant girdle ungrudgingly she brought out the charm and he at once received it in his hands with joy . 
And now both were fixing their eyes on the ground abashed , and again were throwing glances at each other , smiling with the light of love beneath their radiant brows . 
And at last and scarcely then did the maiden greet him Take heed now , that I may devise help for thee . 
And propitiate only begotten Hecate , daughter of Perses , pouring from a goblet the hive stored labour of bees . 
And besides , let thy spear and shield and sword be sprinkled . 
Thereupon the spear heads of the earthborn men shall not pierce thee , nor the flame of the deadly bulls as it rushes forth resistless . 
But such thou shalt be not for long , but for that one day still never flinch from the contest . 
And I will tell thee besides of yet another help . 
Remember , if haply thou returnest to thy home , Medea's name and so will I remember thine , though thou be far away . 
And if it pleases thee to know about my fatherland , I will tell it out for indeed my own heart bids me do that . 
This land the neighbours who dwell around call Haemonia . 
Thus he spake , soothing her with gentle converse . 
But only do thou , when thou hast reached Iolcus , remember me , and thee even in my parents' despite , will I remember . 
And in our bridal chamber shalt thou prepare our couch and nothing shall come between our love till the doom of death fold us round . 
Thus he spake and her soul melted within her to hear his words nevertheless she shuddered to behold the deeds of destruction to come . 
Poor wretch ! Not long was she destined to refuse a home in Hellas . 
For thus Hera devised it , that Aeaean Medea might come to Ioleus for a bane to Pelias , forsaking her native land . 
And now her handmaids , glancing at them from a distance , were grieving in silence and the time of day required that the maiden should return home to her mother's side . 
So did they two make trial of one another thus far with gentle words and thereafter parted . 
For her soul had soared aloft amid the clouds . 
And when they saw Jason they embraced him and questioned him . 
But at daybreak they sent two men to go to Aeetes and ask for the seed , first Telamon himself , dear to Ares , and with him Aethalides , Hermes' famous son . 
There he settled by the guidance of the heifer whom Apollo by his prophetic word granted him to lead him on his way . 
But the teeth the Tritonian goddess tore away from the dragon's jaws and bestowed as a gift upon Aeetes and the slayer . 
All the meadows trembled at her step and the nymphs that haunt the marsh and the river shrieked , all who dance round that mead of Amarantian Phasis . 
For the king his well fashioned chariot of swift steeds was held near at hand by Phaethon , for him to mount and he mounted , and held the reins in his hands . 
Then from the city he drove along the broad highway , that he might be present at the contest and with him a countless multitude rushed forth . 
And then he sprinkled his body , and terrible prowess entered into him , unspeakable , dauntless and his hands on both sides thrilled vigorously as they swelled with strength . 
And often hither and thither did he leap high in air tossing in his hands his shield of bronze and ashen spear . 
Thou wouldst say that wintry lightning flashing from the gloomy sky kept on darting forth from the clouds what time they bring with them their blackest rainstorm . 
Not long after that were the heroes to hold back from the contests but sitting in rows on their benches they sped swiftly on to the plain of Ares . 
And they found Aeetes and the tribes of the Colchians these were stationed on the Caucasian heights , but the king by the winding brink of the river . 
And gazing over the field he saw the bulls' yoke of bronze and near it the plough , all of one piece , of stubborn adamant . 
Then he came near , and fixed his sturdy spear upright on its butt , and taking his helmet , off leant it against the spear . 
And sore afraid were the heroes at the sight . 
But Jason , setting wide his feet , withstood their onset , as in the sea a rocky reef withstands the waves tossed by the countless blasts . 
Then in front of him he held his shield and both the bulls with loud bellowing attacked him with their mighty horns nor did they stir him a jot by their onset . 
So also he threw the other bull on to its knees as it rushed upon him , and smote it down with one blow . 
But Aeetes marvelled at the hero's might . 
And meantime the sons of Tyndareus for long since had it been thus ordained for them near at hand gave him the yoke from the ground to cast round them . 
Then tightly did he bind their necks and lifting the pole of bronze between them , he fastened it to the yoke by its golden tip . 
So the twin heroes started back from the fire to the ship . 
Them he scared in flight towards the plain but he went back again to the ship , while he still saw the furrows free of the earthborn men . 
And all round his comrades heartened him with their shouts . 
And in the helmet he drew from the river's stream and quenched his thirst with the water . 
Taking it in his hands he threw it with a rush far away into their midst and himself crouched unseen behind his shield , with full confidence . 
And the Colchians gave a loud cry , like the roar of the sea when it beats upon sharp crags and speechless amazement seized Aeetes at the rush of the sturdy quoit . 
And he went back to the city among the Colchians , pondering how he might most quickly oppose the heroes . 
And the day died , and Jason's contest was ended . 
the fight between the gods and the giants . 
the liquid that flows in the veins of gods . 
Or , reading MENIM , took no heed of the cause of wrath with the stranger folk . 
Now do thou thyself , goddess Muse , daughter of Zeus , tell of the labour and wiles of the Colchian maiden . 
But into Medea's heart Hera cast most grievous fear and she trembled like a nimble fawn whom the baying of hounds hath terrified amid the thicket of a deep copse . 
For at once she truly forboded that the aid she had given was not hidden from her father , and that quickly she would fill up the cup of woe . 
And she dreaded the guilty knowledge of her handmaids her eyes were filled with fire and her ears rung with a terrible cry . 
Often did she clutch at her throat , and often did she drag out her hair by the roots and groan in wretched despair . 
I go , leaving this long tress here in my stead , O mother mine take this farewell from me as I go far hence farewell Chalciope , and all my home . 
Thus she spake , and from her eyes shed copious tears . 
But to her the bolts of the doors gave way self moved , leaping backwards at the swift strains of her magic song . 
And now thou thyself too hast part in a like mad passion and some god of affection has given thee Jason to be thy grievous woe . 
Well , go on , and steel thy heart , wise though thou be , to take up thy burden of pain , fraught with many sighs . 
Thus spake the goddess but swiftly the maiden's feet bore her , hasting on . 
Thrice she called , and thrice at the bidding of the company Phrontis called out in reply and meantime the heroes were rowing with swift moving oars in search of her . 
Save me , the hapless one , my friends , from Aeetes , and yourselves too , for all is brought to light , nor doth any remedy come . 
But let us flee upon the ship , before the king mounts his swift chariot . 
Word and deed were one to the eager crew . 
But Jason spoke cheering words and restrained her grief . 
There by the counsels of Argus the chieftains put them ashore . 
And great as is the hide of a yearling ox or stag , which huntsmen call a brocket , so great in extent was the fleece all golden above . 
Heavy it was , thickly clustered with flocks and as he moved along , even beneath his feet the sheen rose up from the earth . 
Dawn was spreading over the earth when they reached the throng of heroes and the youths marvelled to behold the mighty fleece , which gleamed like the lightning of Zeus . 
And each one started up eager to touch it and clasp it in his hands . 
No longer now , my friends , forbear to return to your fatherland . 
For now the task for which we dared this grievous voyage , toiling with bitter sorrow of heart , has been lightly fulfilled by the maiden's counsels . 
Her for such is her will I will bring home to be my wedded wife do ye preserve her , the glorious saviour of all Achaea and of yourselves . 
For of a surety , I ween , will Aeetes come with his host to bar our passage from the river into the sea . 
Thus he spake , and donned his armour of war and they cried aloud , wondrously eager . 
And he drew his sword from the sheath and cut the hawsers at the stern . 
By this time Medea's love and deeds had become known to haughty Aeetes and to all the Colchians . 
In his left hand he raised his curved shield , and in his right a huge pine torch , and near him in front stood up his mighty spear . 
And Apsyrtus held in his hands the reins of the steeds . 
But already the ship was cleaving the sea before her , urged on by stalwart oarsmen , and the stream of the mighty river rushing down . 
For Medea bade them land and propitiate Hecate with sacrifice . 
Now all that the maiden prepared for offering the sacrifice may no man know , and may my soul not urge me to sing thereof . 
Awe restrains my lips , yet from that time the altar which the heroes raised on the beach to the goddess remains till now , a sight to men of a later day . 
We go to Orchomenus , whither that unerring seer , whom ye met aforetime , foretold your voyage . 
For there is another course , signified by those priests of the immortal gods , who have sprung from Tritonian Thebes . 
As yet all the stars that wheel in the heaven were not , nor yet , though one should inquire , could aught be heard of the sacred race of the Danai . 
But Aea abides unshaken even now and the sons of those men whom that king settled to dwell in Aea . 
They preserve the writings of their fathers , graven on pillars , whereon are marked all the ways and the limits of sea and land as ye journey on all sides round . 
and partly to the south into a deep gulf that bends upwards from the Trinaerian sea , that sea which lies along your land , if indeed Achelous flows forth from your land . 
Thus he spake , and to them the goddess granted a happy portent , and all at the sight shouted approval , that this was their appointed path . 
For before them appeared a trail of heavenly light , a sign where they might pass . 
And gladly they left behind there the son of Lyeus and with canvas outspread sailed over the sea , with their eyes on the Paphlagonian mountains . 
But they did not round Carambis , for the winds and the gleam of the heavenly fire stayed with them till they reached Ister's mighty stream . 
Wherefore he outstripped the heroes by crossing a neck of land into the furthest gulf of the Ionian sea . 
One mouth they call the mouth of Narex , and the other , at the lower end , the Fair mouth . 
And through this Apsyrtus and his Colchians rushed with all speed but the heroes went upwards far away towards the highest part of the island . 
And in the meadows the country shepherds left their countless flocks for dread of the ships , for they deemed that they were beasts coming forth from the monster teeming sea . 
And the heroes came down the river behind and reached the two Brygean isles of Artemis near at hand . 
And so on other islands too , close by , Apsyrtus left his host as far as the river Salangon and the Nestian land . 
Last of all the fleece when the matter became known , it was by my folly thou didst win it and a foul reproach have I poured on womankind . 
Wherefore I say that as thy child , thy bride and thy sister , I follow thee to the land of Hellas . 
Be ready to stand by me to the end , abandon me not left forlorn of thee when thou dost visit the kings . 
Poor wretch ! if the king , to whom you both commit your cruel covenant , doom me to belong to my brother . 
A mighty oath hast thou transgressed , ruthless one but not long shalt thou and thy comrades sit at ease casting eyes of mockery upon me , for all your covenants . 
Thus she spake , seething with fierce wrath and she longed to set fire to the ship and to hew it utterly in pieces , and herself to fall into the raging flame . 
But Jason , half afraid , thus addressed her with gentle words Forbear , lady me too this pleases not . 
But we seek some respite from battle , for such a cloud of hostile men , like to a fire , surrounds us , on thy account . 
For all that inhabit this land are eager to aid Apsyrtus , that they may lead thee back home to thy father , like some captured maid . 
But this covenant will weave a web of guile to lead him to ruin . 
Thus he spake soothing her and she uttered a deadly speech Take heed now . 
Thereupon if this deed pleases thee , slay him and raise a conflict with the Colchians , I care not . 
Never couldst thou satisfy thy sweet desire by touching it or gazing on it . 
Ruthless Love , great bane , great curse to mankind , from thee come deadly strifes and lamentations and groans , and countless pains as well have their stormy birth from thee . 
Arise , thou god , and arm thyself against the sons of our foes in such guise as when thou didst fill Medea's heart with accursed madness . 
How then by evil doom did she slay Apsyrtus when he came to meet her ? For that must our song tell next . 
When the heroes had left the maiden on the island of Artemis , according to the covenant , both sides ran their ships to land separately . 
And Jason went to the ambush to lie in wait for Apsyrtus and then for his comrades . 
And with swift side glance the irresistible pitiless Fury beheld the deadly deed they had done . 
And the clammy corpse he hid in the ground where even now those bones lie among the Apsyrtians . 
And easy , when the people are scattered , will this path be for us on our return . 
Thus he spake and the youths assented to the words of Aeacus' son . 
And quickly they entered the ship , and toiled at their oars unceasingly until they reached the sacred isle of Electra , the highest of them all , near the river Eridanus . 
But when the Colchians learnt the death of their prince , verily they were eager to pursue Argo and the Minyans through all the Cronian sea . 
But Hera restrained them by terrible lightnings from the sky . 
And at last they loathed their own homes in the Cytaean land , quailing before Aeetes' fierce wrath so they landed and made abiding homes there , scattered far and wide . 
Now the heroes , when their return seemed safe for them , fared onward and made their hawsers fast to the land of the Hylleans . 
For the islands lay thick in the river and made the path dangerous for those who sailed thereby . 
Nor , as aforetime , did the Hylleans devise their hurt , but of their own accord furthered their passage , winning as guerdon a mighty tripod of Apollo . 
Therefore even now this tripod is hidden in that land near the pleasant city of Hyllus , far beneath the earth , that it may ever be unseen by mortals . 
Yet they found not King Hyllus still alive in the land , whom fair Melite bare to Heracles in the land of the Phaeacians . 
When Apsyrtus had fallen in mighty overthrow Zeus himself , king of gods , was seized with wrath at what they had done . 
And he ordained that by the counsels of Aeaean Circe they should cleanse themselves from the terrible stain of blood and suffer countless woes before their return . 
And then Hera bethought her of the counsels and wrath of Zeus concerning them . 
And she devised an ending of their voyage and stirred up storm winds before them , by which they were caught and borne back to the rocky isle of Electra . 
And deadly fear seized them as they heard the voice that told of the grievous wrath of Zeus . 
Thus Argo cried through the darkness and the sons of Tyndareus uprose , and lifted their hands to the immortals praying for each boon but dejection held the rest of the Minyan heroes . 
And no bird spreading its light wings can cross that water but in mid course it plunges into the flame , fluttering . 
And such is the story told among these men . 
But no desire for food or drink seized the heroes nor were their thoughts turned to joy . 
Thence they entered the deep stream of Rhodanus which flows into Eridanus and where they meet there is a roar of mingling waters . 
But Hera leaping forth from heaven pealed her cry from the Hercynian rock and all together were shaken with fear of her cry for terribly crashed the mighty firmament . 
And backward they turned by reason of the goddess , and noted the path by which their return was ordained . 
And after a long while they came to the beach of the surging sea by the devising of Hera , passing unharmed through countless tribes of the Celts and Ligyans . 
For round them the goddess poured a dread mist day by day as they fared on . 
and there are their quoits and their wondrous armour and there is the Argoan harbour called after them . 
And here they found Circe bathing her head in the salt sea spray , for sorely had she been scared by visions of the night . 
Wherefore when morning came she rose , and with sea spray was bathing her hair and her garments . 
And exceeding wonder seized the heroes , and at once , as each gazed on the form and face of Circe , they readily guessed that she was the sister of Aeetes . 
Now when she had dismissed the fears of her nightly visions , straightway she fared backwards , and in her subtlety she bade the heroes follow , charming them on with her hand . 
Thereupon the host remained stedfast at the bidding of Aeson's son , but Jason drew with him the Colchian maid . 
And both followed the selfsame path till they reached the hall of Circe , and she in amaze at their coming bade them sit on brightly burnished seats . 
And they , quiet and silent , sped to the hearth and sat there , as is the wont of wretched suppliants . 
And straightway Circe became aware of the doom of a suppliant and the guilt of murder . 
And all the defilements in a mass her attendants bore forth from the palace the Naiad nymphs who ministered all things to her . 
But when she had wrought all her task , then she raised them up and seated them on well polished seats , and herself sat near , face to face with them . 
For all those of the race of Helios were plain to discern , since by the far flashing of their eyes they shot in front of them a gleam as of gold . 
Poor wretch , an evil and shameful return hast thou planned . 
So they left the home of Circe . 
But they were not unmarked by the spouse of Zeus , son of Cronos but Iris told her when she saw them faring from the hall . 
Dear Iris , now come , if ever thou hast fulfilled my bidding , hie thee away on light pinions , and bid Thetis arise from the sea and come hither . 
For need of her is come upon me . 
Then go to the sea beaches where the bronze anvils of Hephaestus are smitten by sturdy hammers , and tell him to still the blasts of fire until Argo pass by them . 
So she spake , and straightway Iris leapt down from Olympus and cleft her way , with light wings outspread . 
And she plunged into the Aegean Sea , where is the dwelling of Nereus . 
And she came to Thetis first and , by the promptings of Hera , told her tale and roused her to go to the goddess . 
Next she came to Hephaestus , and quickly made him cease from the clang of his iron hammers and the smoke grimed bellows were stayed from their blast . 
And thirdly she came to Aeolus , the famous son of Hippotas . 
Hearken now , lady Thetis , to what I am eager to tell thee . 
where roar terrible storms of fire and the waves foam round the rugged reefs . 
And now past the mighty rock of Scylla and Charybdis horribly belching , a course awaits them . 
For to him such deeds are ever dear , to embrace either goddesses or mortal women . 
And with my own hand I raised the bridal torch , in return for the kindly honour thou didst pay me . 
But come , let me tell a tale that erreth not . 
Why is thy wrath so steadfast ? He was blinded by folly . 
For blindness comes even upon the gods . 
The rocks and the tyrannous waves are my fear , they alone , and them thou canst foil with thy sisters' aid . 
bare to Phoreys , lest swooping upon them with her horrible jaws she destroy the chiefest of the heroes . 
But guide their ship in the course where there shall be still a hair's breadth escape from destruction . 
No longer now must ye stay sitting on the Tyrrhenian beach , but at dawn loosen the hawsers of your swift ship , in obedience to Hera , your helper . 
for that is your destined path . 
Wherefore blank amazement fettered his soul nevertheless he declared to his comrades all the bidding of Thetis . 
And they broke off in the midst and hurriedly ceased their contests , and prepared their meal and earth strewn beds , whereon after supper they slept through the night as aforetime . 
And a fresh breeze wafted the ship on . 
And the west wind and the sounding wave rushing astern bore the ship on and the Sirens kept uttering their ceaseless song . 
And the heroes , seized by anguish , left the Sirens , but other perils still worse , destructive to ships , awaited them in the meeting place of the seas . 
Then , though Hephaestus had ceased from his toils , the sea was still sending up a warm vapour . 
Hereupon on this side and on that the daughters of Nereus met them and behind , lady Thetis set her hand to the rudder blade , to guide them amid the Wandering rocks . 
There the nymphs , like sea mews , plunged beneath the depths , when they had fulfilled the behests of the spouse of Zeus . 
And at the same time the bleating of sheep came to the heroes through the mist and the lowing of kine , near at hand , smote their ears . 
For Demeter once dwelt in that island , and taught the Titans to reap the ears of corn , all for the love of Macris . 
the sacred nurse of the Phaeacians and thus the Phaeacians themselves are by birth of the blood of Uranus . 
But lordly Alcinous checked them amid their eagerness for war . 
For he longed to allay the lawless strife between both sides without the clash of battle . 
For my firm sense forsook me it was not for wantonness . 
Be witness the sacred light of Helios , be witness the rites of the maiden that wanders by night , daughter of Perses . 
Still my maiden's girdle remains , as in the halls of my father , unstained , untouched . 
Fear your covenant and your oaths , fear the Fury that avenges suppliants and the retribution of heaven , if I fall into Aeetes' hands and am slain with grievous outrage . 
To no shrines , no tower of defence , no other refuge do I pay heed , but only to you . 
Thus she spake , beseeching and to whomsoever she bowed in prayer , that man tried to give her heart and to check her anguish . 
Yea , my friend , come , save the woe stricken maid from the Colchians and show grace to the Minyae . 
O king , give her not up to the Colchians to be borne back to her father's home . 
But Jason , as I hear , is bound to her by mighty oaths that he will make her his wedded wife within his halls . 
Arete , with arms I could drive forth the Colchians , showing grace to the heroes for the maiden's sake . 
But I fear to set at nought the righteous judgment of Zeus . 
Nor is it well to take no thought of Aeetes , as thou sayest for none is more lordly than Aeetes . 
And , if he willed , he might bring war upon Hellas , though he dwell afar . 
Wherefore it is right for me to deliver the judgement that in all men's eyes shall be best and I will not hide it from thee . 
Thus he spake , and at once sleep laid him to rest . 
Thus she spake , and quickly from the hall his feet bore him , that he might declare to Jason the fair omened speech of Arete and the counsel of godfearing Alcinous . 
She it was that first received in her bosom the Nysean son of Zeus in Abantian Euboea , and with honey moistened his parched lips when Hermes bore him out of the flame . 
And Hera beheld it , and in wrath drove her from the whole island . 
And she accordingly came to dwell far off , in the sacred cave of the Phaeacians , and granted boundless wealth to the inhabitants . 
There at that time did they spread a mighty couch and thereon they laid the glittering fleece of gold , that so the marriage might be made honoured and the theme of song . 
And in their eyes it kindled a sweet longing yet for all her desire , awe withheld each one from laying her hand thereon . 
Some were called daughters of the river Aegaeus others dwelt round the crests of the Meliteian mount and others were woodland nymphs from the plains . 
For Hera herself , the spouse of Zeus , had sent them to do honour to Jason . 
That cave is to this day called the sacred cave of Medea , where they spread the fine and fragrant linen and brought these two together . 
For never in truth do we tribes of woe stricken mortals tread the path of delight with sure foot but still some bitter affliction keeps pace with our joy . 
Wherefore they too , though their souls were melted with sweet love , were held by fear , whether the sentence of Alcinous would be fulfilled . 
And with him in order due and arrayed in their harness of war went marching , band by band , the chiefs of the Phaeacians . 
And still the altars which Medea built on the spot sacred to Apollo , god of shepherds , receive yearly sacrifices in honour of the Fates and the Nymphs . 
And when the Minyae departed many gifts of friendship did Alcinous bestow , and many Arete moreover she gave Medea twelve Phaeacian handmaids from the palace , to bear her company . 
And on the seventh day they left Drepane and at dawn came a fresh breeze from Zeus . 
And onward they sped borne along by the wind's breath . 
Howbeit not yet was it ordained for the heroes to set foot on Achaea , until they had toiled even in the furthest bounds of Libya . 
And miserably long ago would our sacred ship have been shattered far from the shore but the tide itself bore her high on to the land from the deep sea . 
But now the tide rushes back to the sea , and only the foam , whereon no ship can sail , rolls round us , just covering the land . 
Wherefore I deem that all hope of our voyage and of our return is cut off . 
Let someone else show his skill let him sit at the helm the man that is eager for our deliverance . 
But Zeus has no will to fulfil our day of return after all our toils . 
Thus he spake with tears , and all of them that had knowledge of ships agreed thereto but the hearts of all grew numb , and pallor overspread their cheeks . 
But apart the maidens huddled together lamented beside the daughter of Aeetes . 
It was noon tide and the fiercest rays of the sun were scorching Libya they stood near Aeson's son , and lightly drew the cloak from his head . 
We are the solitary ones , goddesses of the land , speaking with human voice , the heroines , Libya's warders and daughters . 
Up then be not thus afflicted in thy misery , and rouse thy comrades . 
Thus they spake , and with the voice vanished at once , where they stood . 
Be gracious , noble goddesses of the desert , yet the saying about our return I understand not clearly . 
Surely I will gather together my comrades and tell them , if haply we can find some token of our escape , for the counsel of many is better . 
But I cannot fully understand concerning this divine message . 
Then I saw them no more in their place , but a mist or cloud came between and hid them from my sight . 
Thus he spake , and all marvelled as they heard . 
Then was wrought for the Minyae the strangest of portents . 
But with unshaken strength and untiring shoulders will we lift her up and bear her within this country of sandy wastes , where yon swift footed steed has sped before . 
For he will not plunge beneath the earth and his hoof prints , I ween , will point us to some bay above the sea . 
Thus he spake , and the fit counsel pleased all . 
Hespere became a poplar and Eretheis an elm , and Aegle a willow's sacred trunk . 
Thus she spake and they gladly with joyful steps ran to the spot where Aegle had pointed out to them the spring , until they reached it . 
Strange ! In very truth Heracles , though far away , has saved his comrades , fordone with thirst . 
So they spake , and those who were ready for this work answered , and they separated this way and that , each starting to search . 
For by the night winds the footsteps had been effaced where the sand was stirred . 
And to him a monument stands under a tall poplar , just facing the sea . 
But thee , Canthus , the fates of death seized in Libya . 
And Amphithemis wedded a Tritonian nymph and she bare to him Nasamon and strong Caphaurus , who on that day in defending his sheep slew Canthus . 
But he escaped not the chieftains' avenging hands , when they learned the deed he had done . 
And the Minyae , when they knew it , afterwards took up the corpse and buried it in the earth , mourning and the sheep they took with them . 
Thereupon on the same day a pitiless fate seized Mopsus too , son of Ampycus and he escaped not a bitter doom by his prophesying for there is no averting of death . 
And Medea and her handmaids fled in terror but Canthus bravely felt the bleeding wound for no excessive pain harassed him . 
Poor wretch ! Already a numbness that loosed his limbs was stealing beneath his skin , and a thick mist was spreading over his eyes . 
Straightway his heavy limbs sank helplessly to the ground and he grew cold and his comrades and the hero , Aeson's son , gathered round , marvelling at the close coming doom . 
Nor yet though dead might he lie beneath the sun even for a little space . 
For at once the poison began to rot his flesh within , and the hair decayed and fell from the skin . 
Then straightway Orpheus bade them bring forth from the ship Apollo's massy tripod and offer it to the gods of the land as propitiation for their return . 
Take it , friends , for no stranger's gift of great worth have I here by me now to place in the hands of those who beseech me . 
But if ye are searching for a passage through this sea , as often is the need of men passing through a strange land , I will declare it . 
For my sire Poseidon has made me to be well versed in this sea . 
And I rule the shore if haply in your distant land you have ever heard of Eurypylus , born in Libya , the home of wild beasts . 
and the sea of Minos , tell us truly , who ask it of you . 
But go in joy , and as for labour let there be no grieving that limbs in youthful vigour should still toil . 
He spake with kindly counsel and they at once went aboard , intent to come forth from the lake by the use of oars . 
But their hearts were cheered , for that one of the blessed had met them in friendly guise . 
And they bade Aeson's son offer to him the choicest of the sheep and when he had slain it chant the hymn of praise . 
He spake , and cut the victim's throat over the water and cast it from the stern . 
And the god rose up from the depths in form such as he really was . 
There is the harbour of Argo and there are the signs of her stay , and altars to Poseidon and Triton for during that day they tarried . 
But at dawn with sails outspread they sped on before the breath of the west wind , keeping the desert land on their right . 
And on the next morn they saw the headland and the recess of the sea , bending inward beyond the jutting headland . 
And straightway the west wind ceased , and there came the breeze of the clear south wind and their hearts rejoiced at the sound it made . 
And rugged Carpathus far away welcomed them and thence they were to cross to Crete , which rises in the sea above other islands . 
So the heroes , though outworn with toil , quickly backed their ship from the land in sore dismay . 
And now far from Crete would they have been borne in wretched plight , distressed both by thirst and pain , had not Medea addressed them as they turned away Hearken to me . 
For I deem that I alone can subdue for you that man , whoever he be , even though his frame be of bronze throughout , unless his life too is everlasting . 
But be ready to keep your ship here beyond the cast of his stones , till he yield the victory to me . 
And quickly , O son of Leto , swift to hear , didst thou come down from heaven to the Melantian rocks , which lie there in the sea . 
Then darting upon one of the twin peaks , thou raisedst aloft in thy right hand thy golden bow and the bow flashed a dazzling gleam all round . 
for that Phoebus had revealed it to men sore bewildered . 
And the heroes delighted in the jest and attacked them with taunting words and merry railing and contention flung to and fro were kindled among them . 
And from that sport of the heroes such scoffs do the women fling at the men in that island whenever they propitiate with sacrifices Apollo the gleaming god , the warder of Anaphe . 
But when they had loosed the hawsers thence in fair weather , then Euphemus bethought him of a dream of the night , reverencing the glorious son of Maia . 
Daughter of Triton am I , dear friend , and nurse of thy children , no maiden Triton and Libya are my parents . 
But restore me to the daughters of Nereus to dwell in the sea near Anaphe I shall return again to the light of the sun , to prepare a home for thy descendants . 
My friend , great and glorious renown has fallen to thy lot . 
None other of the immortals it was than he that gave thee this when he met thee . 
Thus he spake and Euphemus made not vain the answer of Aeson's son but , cheered by the prophecy , he cast the clod into the depths . 
But this befell after the days of Euphemus . 
For both their need and the ceaseless breeze urged them on . 
There even to this day do the youths of the Myrmidons take up on their shoulders full brimming jars , and with swift feet strive for victory in the race . 
Be gracious , race of blessed chieftains ! And may these songs year after year be sweeter to sing among men . 
ENDNOTES The allusion is to Sesotris . 
Or , reading EMETEREN , into our sea . 
The Euxine is meant in any case and the word Ionian is therefore wrong . 
Apollonius seems to have thought that the Po , the Rhone , and the Rhine are all connected together . 
like the scrapings from skin , APOSTLEGGISMATA see Strabo p . 
The Symplegades are referred to , where help was given by Athena , not by Hera . 
It is strange that no mention is made of the Planctae , properly so called , past which they are soon to be helped . 
Perhaps some lines have fallen out . 
A fabulous metal , resembling gold in appearance . 
The old name of Corinth . 
This seems to be the only possible translation , but the optative is quite anomalous . 
An old name of the Peloponnesus . 
