Fables Robert Louis Stevenson Edition Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk FABLES I. THE PERSONS OF THE TALE . 
Good morning , Cap'n , said the first , with a man o' war salute , and a beaming countenance . 
Ah , Silver ! grunted the other . 
You're in a bad way , Silver . 
You're a damned rogue , my man , said the Captain . 
Come , come , Cap'n , be just , returned the other . 
There's no call to be angry with me in earnest . 
I'm on'y a chara'ter in a sea story . 
Well , I don't really exist either , says the Captain , which seems to meet that . 
I wouldn't set no limits to what a virtuous chara'ter might consider argument , responded Silver . 
Don't you know there's such a thing as an Author ? Such a thing as a Author ? returned John , derisively . 
Do you think there's nothing but the present story paper ? I don't rightly know for that , said Silver and I don't see what it's got to do with it , anyway . 
What I know is this if there is sich a thing as a Author , I'm his favourite chara'ter . 
He does me fathoms better'n he does you fathoms , he does . 
And he likes doing me . 
But that can't change a man's convictions . 
I am a man that tries to do his duty , and makes a mess of it as often as not . 
I'm not a very popular man at home , Silver , I'm afraid ! and the Captain sighed . 
Well , that's all I need to know I'll take my chance upon the rest . 
It's a fact he seemed to be against George Merry , Silver admitted , musingly . 
But George is little more'n a name at the best of it , he added , brightening . 
And to get into soundings for once . 
What is this good ? I made a mutiny , and I been a gentleman o' fortune well , but by all stories , you ain't no such saint . 
I'm a man that keeps company very easy even by your own account , you ain't , and to my certain knowledge you're a devil to haze . 
That's a fact of religion , my man . 
All I can say is , I try to do my duty and if you try to do yours , I can't compliment you on your success . 
And so you was the judge , was you ? said Silver , derisively . 
I would be both judge and hangman for you , my man , and never turn a hair , returned the Captain . 
given a proper chance , he has to put in men like you and Hands . 
But he's on the right side and you mind your eye ! You're not through this story yet there's trouble coming for you . 
What'll you bet ? asked John . 
Much I care if there ain't , returned the Captain . 
I'm glad enough to be Alexander Smollett , bad as he is and I thank my stars upon my knees that I'm not Silver . 
But there's the ink bottle opening . 
To quarters ! And indeed the Author was just then beginning to write the words CHAPTER XXXIII . 
SIR , said the first lieutenant , bursting into the Captain's cabin , the ship is going down . 
Very well , Mr. Spoker , said the Captain but that is no reason for going about half shaved . 
may be said to have been going down since she was launched . 
She is settling fast , said the first lieutenant , as he returned from shaving . 
Fast , Mr. Spoker ? asked the Captain . 
The expression is a strange one , for time is only relative . 
Sir , said the lieutenant , I think it is scarcely worth while to embark in such a discussion when we shall all be in Davy Jones's Locker in ten minutes . 
You have not considered , Mr. Spoker , the situation of man , said the Captain , smiling , and shaking his head . 
I am much more engaged in considering the position of the ship , said Mr. Spoker . 
Spoken like a good officer , replied the Captain , laying his hand on the lieutenant's shoulder . 
On deck they found the men had broken into the spirit room , and were fast getting drunk . 
My men , said the Captain , there is no sense in this . 
The ship is going down , you will tell me , in ten minutes well , and what then ? To the philosophic eye , there is nothing new in our position . 
I assure you , with my hand on my heart , I fail to comprehend your attitude . 
The men were already too far gone to pay much heed . 
This is a very painful sight , Mr. Spoker , said the Captain . 
And yet to the philosophic eye , or whatever it is , replied the first lieutenant , they may be said to have been getting drunk since they came aboard . 
I do not know if you always follow my thought , Mr. Spoker , returned the Captain gently . 
In the powder magazine they found an old salt smoking his pipe . 
Good God , cried the Captain , what are you about ? Well , sir , said the old salt , apologetically , they told me as she were going down . 
And suppose she were ? said the Captain . 
To the philosophic eye , there would be nothing new in our position . 
And for my own poor part I should despise the man who , even on board a sinking ship , should omit to take a pill or to wind up his watch . 
That , my friend , would not be the human attitude . 
I beg pardon , sir , said Mr. Spoker . 
But what is precisely the difference between shaving in a sinking ship and smoking in a powder magazine ? Or doing anything at all in any conceivable circumstances ? cried the Captain . 
Perfectly conclusive give me a cigar ! Two minutes afterwards the ship blew up with a glorious detonation . 
ONE day there was a traveller in the woods in California , in the dry season , when the Trades were blowing strong . 
He had ridden a long way , and he was tired and hungry , and dismounted from his horse to smoke a pipe . 
But when he felt in his pocket he found but two matches . 
He struck the first , and it would not light . 
Here is a pretty state of things ! said the traveller . 
What a world hangs upon this moment ! With that he struck the match , and it missed fire . 
Thank God ! said the traveller , and put his pipe in his pocket . 
THE SICK MAN AND THE FIREMAN . 
THERE was once a sick man in a burning house , to whom there entered a fireman . 
Do not save me , said the sick man . 
Save those who are strong . 
Will you kindly tell me why ? inquired the fireman , for he was a civil fellow . 
Nothing could possibly be fairer , said the sick man . 
The strong should be preferred in all cases , because they are of more service in the world . 
The fireman pondered a while , for he was a man of some philosophy . 
Again the fireman reflected , for there was nothing hasty about this excellent creature . 
I could forgive you being sick , he said at last , as a portion of the wall fell out , but I cannot bear your being such a fool . 
And with that he heaved up his fireman's axe , for he was eminently just , and clove the sick man to the bed . 
V. THE DEVIL AND THE INNKEEPER . 
ONCE upon a time the devil stayed at an inn , where no one knew him , for they were people whose education had been neglected . 
He was bent on mischief , and for a time kept everybody by the ears . 
But at last the innkeeper set a watch upon the devil and took him in the fact . 
The innkeeper got a rope's end . 
Now I am going to thrash you , said the innkeeper . 
You have no right to be angry with me , said the devil . 
I am only the devil , and it is my nature to do wrong . 
Is that so ? asked the innkeeper . 
Fact , I assure you , said the devil . 
You really cannot help doing ill ? asked the innkeeper . 
Not in the smallest , said the devil it would be useless cruelty to thrash a thing like me . 
It would indeed , said the innkeeper . 
And he made a noose and hanged the devil . 
There ! said the innkeeper . 
THE PENITENT A MAN met a lad weeping . 
What do you weep for ? he asked . 
I am weeping for my sins , said the lad . 
You must have little to do , said the man . 
The next day they met again . 
Once more the lad was weeping . 
Why do you weep now ? asked the man . 
I am weeping because I have nothing to eat , said the lad . 
I thought it would come to that , said the man . 
IN a certain city there lived a physician who sold yellow paint . 
protested he had never done a job so thorough . 
Some two months afterwards , the young man was carried on a stretcher to the physician's house . 
What is the meaning of this ? he cried , as soon as the door was opened . 
I was to be set free from all the dangers of life and here have I been run down by that self same water cart , and my leg is broken . 
Dear me ! said the physician . 
But I perceive I must explain to you the action of my paint . 
A broken bone is a mighty small affair at the worst of it and it belongs to a class of accident to which my paint is quite inapplicable . 
Oh ! said the young man , I did not understand that , and it seems rather disappointing . 
But I have no doubt all is for the best and in the meanwhile , I shall be obliged to you if you will set my leg . 
That is none of my business , said the physician but if your bearers will carry you round the corner to the surgeon's , I feel sure he will afford relief . 
Some three years later , the young man came running to the physician's house in a great perturbation . 
What is the meaning of this ? he cried . 
Here was I to be set free from the bondage of sin and I have just committed forgery , arson and murder . 
Dear me , said the physician . 
Off with your clothes at once . 
And as soon as the young man had stripped , he examined him from head to foot . 
No , he cried with great relief , there is not a flake broken . 
Cheer up , my young friend , your paint is as good as new . 
It does not exactly prevent sin it extenuates instead the painful consequences . 
It is not so much for this world , as for the next it is not against life in short , it is against death that I have fitted you out . 
And when you come to die , you will give me news of my paint . 
Oh ! cried the young man , I had not understood that , and it seems a little disappointing . 
Six weeks later , the physician was called to the town gaol . 
What is the meaning of this ? cried the young man . 
Dear me , said the physician . 
Well , well perhaps , if you had not been painted , you would have been more frightened still . 
So soon as the child began to speak , the gyve was riveted and the boys and girls limped about their play like convicts . 
Doubtless it was more pitiable to see and more painful to bear in youth but even the grown folk , besides being very unhandy on their feet , were often sick with ulcers . 
About the time when Jack was ten years old , many strangers began to journey through that country . 
These he beheld going lightly by on the long roads , and the thing amazed him . 
None are happy , none are good , none are respectable , that are not gyved like us . 
And I must tell you , besides , it is very dangerous talk . 
If you grumble of your iron , you will have no luck if ever you take it off , you will be instantly smitten by a thunderbolt . 
Are there no thunderbolts for these strangers ? asked Jack . 
Jupiter is longsuffering to the benighted , returned the catechist . 
Upon my word , I could wish I had been less fortunate , said Jack . 
For if I had been born benighted , I might now be going free and it cannot be denied the iron is inconvenient , and the ulcer hurts . 
It chanced one day , when he was fifteen , he went into the woods , and the ulcer pained him . 
It was a fair day , with a blue sky all the birds were singing but Jack nursed his foot . 
Presently , another song began it sounded like the singing of a person , only far more gay at the same time there was a beating on the earth . 
Oh ! cried Jack , you have your fetter off ! For God's sake , don't tell your uncle ! cried the lad . 
If you fear my uncle , returned Jack why do you not fear the thunderbolt ? That is only an old wives' tale , said the other . 
It is only told to children . 
Scores of us come here among the woods and dance for nights together , and are none the worse . 
This put Jack in a thousand new thoughts . 
He was a grave lad he had no mind to dance himself he wore his fetter manfully , and tended his ulcer without complaint . 
But he loved the less to be deceived or to see others cheated . 
was no command of Jupiter's . 
It was the contrivance of a white faced thing , a sorcerer , that dwelt in that country in the Wood of Eld . 
He was one like Glaucus that could change his shape , yet he could be always told for when he was crossed , he gobbled like a turkey . 
And in your country ? Jack would ask . 
But at this the travellers , with one accord , would put him off until Jack began to suppose there was no land entirely happy . 
Or , if there were , it must be one that kept its folk at home which was natural enough . 
But the case of the gyves weighed upon him . 
The sight of the children limping stuck in his eyes the groans of such as dressed their ulcers haunted him . 
And it came at last in his mind that he was born to free them . 
There was in that village a sword of heavenly forgery , beaten upon Vulcan's anvil . 
It was never used but in the temple , and then the flat of it only and it hung on a nail by the catechist's chimney . 
Early one night , Jack rose , and took the sword , and was gone out of the house and the village in the darkness . 
All night he walked at a venture and when day came , he met strangers going to the fields . 
Then he asked after the Wood of Eld and the house of sorcery and one said north , and one south until Jack saw that they deceived him . 
But the man , when his gyve spoke , spat and struck at Jack , and threw stones at him as he went away so that his head was broken . 
Yet it was in good repair , and all the chimneys smoked . 
But Jack saw nowhere any living creature only the bodies of some stuffed . 
This is a hospitable house , said Jack but the ground must be quaggy underneath , for at every step the building quakes . 
He had gone some time in the house , when he began to be hungry . 
Then he looked at the food , and at first he was afraid but he bared the sword , and by the shining of the sword , it seemed the food was honest . 
So he took the courage to sit down and eat , and he was refreshed in mind and body . 
This is strange , thought he , that in the house of sorcery there should be food so wholesome . 
As he was yet eating , there came into that room the appearance of his uncle , and Jack was afraid because he had taken the sword . 
But his uncle was never more kind , and sat down to meat with him , and praised him because he had taken the sword . 
Never had these two been more pleasantly together , and Jack was full of love to the man . 
It was very well done , said his uncle , to take the sword and come yourself into the House of Eld a good thought and a brave deed . 
But now you are satisfied and we may go home to dinner arm in arm . 
Oh , dear , no ! said Jack . 
I am not satisfied yet . 
How ! cried his uncle . 
Now at this the appearance of his uncle gobbled like a turkey . 
If the gyves are to fall , said he , I must go through with this , and when I get home I shall find my uncle dancing . 
So he went on after the bloodless thing . 
For you can still , said he , be home by sunset and then all will be forgiven . 
God knows , said Jack , I fear your anger but yet your anger does not prove that a man should wear a gyve on his right leg . 
And at that the appearance of his father gobbled like a turkey . 
The cry rang in Jack's ears , and his soul was darkened but now rage came to him . 
I have done what I dare not think upon , said he . 
I will go to an end with it , or perish . 
And when I get home , I pray God this may be a dream , and I may find my father dancing . 
So he went on after the bloodless thing that had escaped and in the way he met the appearance of his mother , and she wept . 
What have you done ? she cried . 
ere you do more ill to me and mine for it is enough to smite my brother and your father . 
Dear mother , it is not these that I have smitten , said Jack it was but the enchanter in their shape . 
And even if I had , it would not prove that a man should wear a gyve on his right leg . 
And at this the appearance gobbled like a turkey . 
Well , said he , the enchanter is now dead , and the fetter gone . 
But the cries rang in his soul , and the day was like night to him . 
This has been a sore business , said he . 
Let me get forth out of the wood , and see the good that I have done to others . 
He thought to leave the fetter where it lay , but when he turned to go , his mind was otherwise . 
So he stooped and put the gyve in his bosom and the rough iron galled him as he went , and his bosom bled . 
Jack asked them what it signified and they said , that was the new wear , for the old was found to be a superstition . 
Then he looked at them nearly and there was a new ulcer on the left ankle , and the old one on the right was not yet healed . 
Now , may God forgive me ! cried Jack . 
I would I were well home . 
And when he was home , there lay his uncle smitten on the head , and his father pierced through the heart , and his mother cloven through the midst . 
And he sat in the lone house and wept beside the bodies . 
Old is the tree and the fruit good , Very old and thick the wood . 
Woodman , is your courage stout ? Beware ! the root is wrapped about Your mother's heart , your father's bones And like the mandrake comes with groans . 
FOUR reformers met under a bramble bush . 
They were all agreed the world must be changed . 
We must abolish property , said one . 
We must abolish marriage , said the second . 
We must abolish God , said the third . 
I wish we could abolish work , said the fourth . 
Do not let us get beyond practical politics , said the first . 
The first thing is to reduce men to a common level . 
The first thing , said the second , is to give freedom to the sexes . 
The first thing , said the third , is to find out how to do it . 
The first step , said the first , is to abolish the Bible . 
The first thing , said the second , is to abolish the laws . 
The first thing , said the third , is to abolish mankind . 
X. THE MAN AND HIS FRIEND . 
A MAN quarrelled with his friend . 
I have been much deceived in you , said the man . 
And the friend made a face at him and went away . 
A little after , they both died , and came together before the great white Justice of the Peace . 
It began to look black for the friend , but the man for a while had a clear character and was getting in good spirits . 
I find here some record of a quarrel , said the justice , looking in his notes . 
Which of you was in the wrong ? He was , said the man . 
He spoke ill of me behind my back . 
Did he so ? said the justice . 
And pray how did he speak about your neighbours ? Oh , he had always a nasty tongue , said the man . 
And you chose him for your friend ? cried the justice . 
My good fellow , we have no use here for fools . 
So the man was cast in the pit , and the friend laughed out aloud in the dark and remained to be tried on other charges . 
I NEVER read such an impious book , said the reader , throwing it on the floor . 
You need not hurt me , said the book you will only get less for me second hand , and I did not write myself . 
That is true , said the reader . 
My quarrel is with your author . 
Ah , well , said the book , you need not buy his rant . 
That is true , said the reader . 
But I thought him such a cheerful writer . 
I find him so , said the book . 
You must be differently made from me , said the reader . 
Let me tell you a fable , said the book . 
And so they did , said the book . 
That is true , said the reader . 
Push it a little further for this once . 
And when they were all dead ? They were in God's hands , the same as before , said the book . 
Not much to boast of , by your account , cried the reader . 
Who is impious now ? said the book . 
And the reader put him on the fire . 
The coward crouches from the rod , And loathes the iron face of God . 
THE CITIZEN AND THE TRAVELLER . 
LOOK round you , said the citizen . 
This is the largest market in the world . 
Oh , surely not , said the traveller . 
Well , perhaps not the largest , said the citizen , but much the best . 
You are certainly wrong there , said the traveller . 
They buried the stranger at the dusk . 
ONCE upon a time there came to this earth a visitor from a neighbouring planet . 
And he was met at the place of his descent by a great philosopher , who was to show him everything . 
First of all they came through a wood , and the stranger looked upon the trees . 
Whom have we here ? said he . 
These are only vegetables , said the philosopher . 
They are alive , but not at all interesting . 
I don't know about that , said the stranger . 
They seem to have very good manners . 
Do they never speak ? They lack the gift , said the philosopher . 
Yet I think I hear them sing , said the other . 
That is only the wind among the leaves , said the philosopher . 
I will explain to you the theory of winds it is very interesting . 
Well , said the stranger , I wish I knew what they are thinking . 
They cannot think , said the philosopher . 
I don't know about that , returned the stranger and then , laying his hand upon a trunk I like these people , said he . 
They are not people at all , said the philosopher . 
Next they came through a meadow where there were cows . 
These are very dirty people , said the stranger . 
They are not people at all , said the philosopher and he explained what a cow is in scientific words which I have forgotten . 
That is all one to me , said the stranger . 
Well , said the stranger , that is one way to live , no doubt . 
But I prefer the people with the green heads . 
Next they came into a city , and the streets were full of men and women . 
These are very odd people , said the stranger . 
They are the people of the greatest nation in the world , said the philosopher . 
Are they indeed ? said the stranger . 
THE CART HORSES AND THE SADDLE HORSE . 
Two cart horses , a gelding and a mare , were brought to Samoa , and put in the same field with a saddle horse to run free on the island . 
They were rather afraid to go near him , for they saw he was a saddle horse , and supposed he would not speak to them . 
Now the saddle horse had never seen creatures so big . 
These must be great chiefs , thought he , and he approached them civilly . 
Lady and gentleman , said he , I understand you are from the colonies . 
I offer you my affectionate compliments , and make you heartily welcome to the islands . 
The colonials looked at him askance , and consulted with each other . 
Who can he be ? said the gelding . 
He seems suspiciously civil , said the mare . 
I do not think he can be much account , said the gelding . 
Depend upon it he is only a Kanaka , said the mare . 
Then they turned to him . 
Go to the devil ! said the gelding . 
I wonder at your impudence , speaking to persons of our quality ! cried the mare . 
The saddle horse went away by himself . 
I was right , said he , they are great chiefs . 
XV THE TADPOLE AND THE FROG . 
BE ashamed of yourself , said the frog . 
When I was a tadpole , I had no tail . 
Just what I thought ! said the tadpole . 
You never were a tadpole . 
THE natives told him many tales . 
There is nothing in it , said the missionary . 
There was a bay upon that island , a very fair bay to look upon but , by the native saying , it was death to bathe there . 
There is nothing in that , said the missionary and he came to the bay , and went swimming . 
Presently an eddy took him and bore him towards the reef . 
Oho ! thought the missionary , it seems there is something in it after all . 
And he swam the harder , but the eddy carried him away . 
He had never seen such a house , nor yet such calabashes and the eddy set for the ladder . 
This is singular , said the missionary , but there can be nothing in it . 
And he laid hold of the ladder and went up . 
It was a fine house but there was no man there and when the missionary looked back he saw no island , only the heaving of the sea . 
It is strange about the island , said the missionary , but who's afraid ? my stories are the true ones . 
And he laid hold of a calabash , for he was one that loved curiosities . 
A body would think there was something in this , said the missionary . 
This was a dread place to reach for any of the sons of men . 
But of all who ever came there , the missionary was the most concerned and , to make things worse , the person next him was a convert of his own . 
By this the kava of the dead was ready , and the daughters of Miru began to intone in the old manner of singing . 
Gone are the green islands and the bright sea , the sun and the moon and the forty million stars , and life and love and hope . 
Henceforth is no more , only to sit in the night and silence , and see your friends devoured for life is a deceit , and the bandage is taken from your eyes . 
Now when the singing was done , one of the daughters came with the bowl . 
And then he remembered , and put it back . 
Drink ! sang the daughter of Miru . 
There is no kava like the kava of the dead , and to drink of it once is the reward of living . 
It smells excellent , said the missionary . 
But I am a blue ribbon man myself and though I am aware there is a difference of opinion even in our own confession , I have always held kava to be excluded . 
What ! cried the convert . 
Are you going to respect a taboo at a time like this ? And you were always so opposed to taboos when you were alive ! To other people's , said the missionary . 
But yours have all proved wrong , said the convert . 
It looks like it , said the missionary , and I can't help that . 
No reason why I should break my word . 
I never heard the like of this ! cried the daughter of Miru . 
Pray , what do you expect to gain ? That is not the point , said the missionary . 
I took this pledge for others , I am not going to break it for myself . 
The daughter of Miru was puzzled she came and told her mother , and Miru was vexed and they went and told Akaanga . 
I don't know what to do about this , said Akaanga and he came and reasoned with the missionary . 
But there IS such a thing as right and wrong , said the missionary and your ovens cannot alter that . 
Give the kava to the rest , said Akaanga to the daughters of Miru . 
I must get rid of this sea lawyer instantly , or worse will come of it . 
The next moment the missionary came up in the midst of the sea , and there before him were the palm trees of the island . 
He swam to the shore gladly , and landed . 
Much matter of thought was in that missionary's mind . 
I seem to have been misinformed upon some points , said he . 
Perhaps there is not much in it , as I supposed but there is something in it after all . 
Let me be glad of that . 
And he rang the bell for service . 
The sticks break , the stones crumble , The eternal altars tilt and tumble , Sanctions and tales dislimn like mist About the amazed evangelist . 
He stands unshook from age to youth Upon one pin point of the truth . 
FAITH , HALF FAITH AND NO FAITH AT ALL . 
IN the ancient days there went three men upon pilgrimage one was a priest , and one was a virtuous person , and the third was an old rover with his axe . 
As they went , the priest spoke about the grounds of faith . 
We find the proofs of our religion in the works of nature , said he , and beat his breast . 
That is true , said the virtuous person . 
The peacock has a scrannel voice , said the priest , as has been laid down always in our books . 
How cheering ! he cried , in a voice like one that wept . 
How comforting ! I require no such proofs , said the virtuous person . 
Then you have no reasonable faith , said the priest . 
Great is the right , and shall prevail ! cried the virtuous person . 
There is loyalty in my soul be sure , there is loyalty in the mind of Odin . 
These are but playings upon words , returned the priest . 
A sackful of such trash is nothing to the peacock . 
Just then they passed a country farm , where there was a peacock seated on a rail and the bird opened its mouth and sang with the voice of a nightingale . 
Where are you now ? asked the virtuous person . 
But presently they came to a shrine , where a Fakeer performed miracles . 
Ah ! said the priest , here are the true grounds of faith . 
The peacock was but an adminicle . 
This is the base of our religion . 
And he beat upon his breast , and groaned like one with colic . 
Now to me , said the virtuous person , all this is as little to the purpose as the peacock . 
Now at this the Fakeer was so much incensed that his hand trembled and , lo ! in the midst of a miracle the cards fell from up his sleeve . 
Where are you now ? asked the virtuous person . 
And yet it shakes not me ! The devil fly away with the Fakeer ! cried the priest . 
I really do not see the good of going on with this pilgrimage . 
Cheer up ! cried the virtuous person . 
Great is the right , and shall prevail ! If you are quite sure it will prevail , says the priest . 
I pledge my word for that , said the virtuous person . 
So the other began to go on again with a better heart . 
At last one came running , and told them all was lost that the powers of darkness had besieged the Heavenly Mansions , that Odin was to die , and evil triumph . 
I have been grossly deceived , cried the virtuous person . 
All is lost now , said the priest . 
I wonder if it is too late to make it up with the devil ? said the virtuous person . 
Oh , I hope not , said the priest . 
And at any rate we can but try . 
But what are you doing with your axe ? says he to the rover . 
I am off to die with Odin , said the rover . 
THE King was a man that stood well before the world his smile was sweet as clover , but his soul withinsides was as little as a pea . 
He had two sons and the younger son was a boy after his heart , but the elder was one whom he feared . 
It befell one morning that the drum sounded in the dun before it was yet day and the King rode with his two sons , and a brave array behind them . 
They rode two hours , and came to the foot of a brown mountain that was very steep . 
Where do we ride ? said the elder son . 
said the King , and smiled to himself . 
My father knows what he is doing , said the younger son . 
And they rode two hours more , and came to the sides of a black river that was wondrous deep . 
And where do we ride ? asked the elder son . 
Over this black river , said the King , and smiled to himself . 
My father knows what he is doing , said the younger son . 
And they rode all that day , and about the time of the sunsetting came to the side of a lake , where was a great dun . 
It is here we ride , said the King to a King's house , and a priest's , and a house where you will learn much . 
These are my two sons , said the first King . 
And here is my daughter , said the King who was a priest . 
And then the two Kings looked at each other , and said , The thing may come about . 
And in the meanwhile the two lads looked upon the maid , and the one grew pale and the other red and the maid looked upon the ground smiling . 
Here is the maid that I shall marry , said the elder . 
For I think she smiled upon me . 
But the younger plucked his father by the sleeve . 
Father , said he , a word in your ear . 
If I find favour in your sight , might not I wed this maid , for I think she smiles upon me ? A word in yours , said the King his father . 
Waiting is good hunting , and when the teeth are shut the tongue is at home . 
Before it was day , the elder son arose , and he found the maid at her weaving , for she was a diligent girl . 
Maid , quoth he , I would fain marry you . 
You must speak with my father , said she , and she looked upon the ground smiling , and became like the rose . 
Her heart is with me , said the elder son , and he went down to the lake and sang . 
A little after came the younger son . 
Maid , quoth he , if our fathers were agreed , I would like well to marry you . 
You can speak to my father , said she and looked upon the ground , and smiled and grew like the rose . 
She is a dutiful daughter , said the younger son , she will make an obedient wife . 
Presently the news got about and the two lads and the first King were called into the presence of the King who was a priest , where he sat upon the high seat . 
Little I reck of gear , said the King who was a priest , and little of power . 
For we live here among the shadow of things , and the heart is sick of seeing them . 
And we stay here in the wind like raiment drying , and the heart is weary of the wind . 
But one thing I love , and that is truth and for one thing will I give my daughter , and that is the trial stone . 
For in the light of that stone the seeming goes , and the being shows , and all things besides are worthless . 
Therefore , lads , if ye would wed my daughter , out foot , and bring me the stone of touch , for that is the price of her . 
A word in your ear , said the younger son to his father . 
I think we do very well without this stone . 
A word in yours , said the father . 
I am of your way of thinking but when the teeth are shut the tongue is at home . 
And he smiled to the King that was a priest . 
But the elder son got to his feet , and called the King that was a priest by the name of father . 
So he said farewell , and rode into the world . 
I think I will go , too , said the younger son , if I can have your leave . 
For my heart goes out to the maid . 
You will ride home with me , said his father . 
So they rode home , and when they came to the dun , the King had his son into his treasury . 
Here is no such great thing to make a work about , said he but if it will get me the maid I shall never complain . 
For now I know , said he , there is no truth but the plain truth and I am a King indeed , although my heart misgave me . 
And he pulled down his temple , and built a new one and then the younger son was married to the maid . 
Then would the elder son be glad , and beg for a sight of it . 
And sometimes it would be a lump of coal , which showed nothing and then he would say , This can never be , for at least there is the seeming . 
A murrain upon this business ! said the elder son , for I perceive no end to it . 
Here I have the red , and here the blue and the green and to me they seem all excellent , and yet shame each other . 
Now after many years the elder son came upon the sides of the salt sea and it was night , and a savage place , and the clamour of the sea was loud . 
There he was aware of a house , and a man that sat there by the light of a candle , for he had no fire . 
Have you the touchstone of truth ? asked the elder son and when the man had wagged his head , I might have known that , cried the elder son . 
I have here a wallet full of them ! And with that he laughed , although his heart was weary . 
And with that the man laughed too , and with the fuff of his laughter the candle went out . 
Sleep , said the man , for now I think you have come far enough and your quest is ended , and my candle is out . 
All that day he rode , and his mind was quiet , and the desire of the chase allayed . 
How if this poor pebble be the touchstone , after all ? said he and he got down from his horse , and emptied forth his wallet by the side of the way . 
And the elder son smote upon his brow . 
Who are you ? said his brother . 
And what make you in the dun ? I am your elder brother , he replied . 
And I am come to marry the maid , for I have brought the touchstone of truth . 
Then the younger brother laughed aloud . 
Why , said he , I found the touchstone years ago , and married the maid , and there are our children playing at the gate . 
Now at this the elder brother grew as gray as the dawn . 
I pray you have dealt justly , said he , for I perceive my life is lost . 
Justly ? quoth the younger brother . 
I have no shame of mine , said the younger brother . 
There it is , and look in it . 
And I that was dutiful and wise sit here crowned with virtues and pleasures , and happy in the light of my hearth . 
Oh , well , said the elder brother , I perceive there is both good and bad . 
So fare ye all as well as ye may in the dun but I will go forth into the world with my pebble in my pocket . 
THERE was a man in the islands who fished for his bare bellyful , and took his life in his hands to go forth upon the sea between four planks . 
But though he had much ado , he was merry of heart and the gulls heard him laugh when the spray met him . 
And though he had little lore , he was sound of spirit and when the fish came to his hook in the mid waters , he blessed God without weighing . 
He was bitter poor in goods and bitter ugly of countenance , and he had no wife . 
It fell in the time of the fishing that the man awoke in his house about the midst of the afternoon . 
The fire burned in the midst , and the smoke went up and the sun came down by the chimney . 
And the man was aware of the likeness of one that warmed his hands at the red peats . 
I greet you , said the man , in the name of God . 
Be plain with me , said the man , and tell me your name and of your nature . 
My name , quoth the other , is not yet named , and my nature not yet sure . 
For I am part of a man and I was a part of your fathers , and went out to fish and fight with them in the ancient days . 
I am fearful to see you , my son , said the man . 
For methinks you are no thing of God . 
It is only the wind that whistles in my teeth , said the Poor Thing , and there is no life in me to keep it out . 
But now are we broken in sunder , and the bonds of our bones are loosed , and our thoughts lie in the dust . 
Then said the Poor Thing Charge them that they give you the virtue they withheld . 
And the man said Bones of my fathers , greeting ! for I am sprung of your loins . 
And now , behold , I break open the piled stones of your cairn , and I let in the noon between your ribs . 
Count it well done , for it was to be and give me what I come seeking in the name of blood and in the name of God . 
And their voices passed away like an eddy in a river . 
Now , said the Poor Thing , they have told you a lesson , but make them give you a gift . 
Stoop your hand among the bones without drawback , and you shall find their treasure . 
It is a thing of no price , quoth the man , for it is rusty . 
We shall see that , said the Poor Thing for in my thought it is a good thing to do what our fathers did , and to keep what they kept without question . 
And in my thought one thing is as good as another in this world and a shoe of a horse will do . 
Now , said the Poor Thing , do so and so , and you shall find a wife and I a mother . 
What is that ? quoth she . 
It is a shoe of a horse , said the man . 
And what is the use of it ? quoth the Earl's daughter . 
It is for no use , said the man . 
Now the Earl's daughter could not find it in her mind to believe him . 
Come , quoth she , sell me this , for I am sure it is a thing of price . 
Nay , said the man , the thing is not for sale . 
What ! cried the Earl's daughter . 
Then what make you here in the town's market , with the thing in your creel and nought beside ? I sit here , says the man , to get me a wife . 
There is no sense in any of these answers , thought the Earl's daughter and I could find it in my heart to weep . 
By came the Earl upon that and she called him and told him all . 
The way of life is straight like the grooves of launching , quoth the man . 
And if I am to be hanged let me be hanged . 
This can never be , thought the Earl and he stood and looked upon the man , and bit his beard . 
And the man looked up at him and smiled . 
It was so my fathers did in the ancient ages , quoth he to the Earl , and I have neither a better reason nor a worse . 
There is no sense in any of this , thought the Earl , and I must be growing old . 
So he had his daughter on one side , and says he Many suitors have you denied , my child . 
By my troth , but he is bitter ugly , said the Earl's daughter . 
How if the gallows be so near at hand ? It was not so , said the Earl , that my fathers did in the ancient ages . 
I am like the man , and can give you neither a better reason nor a worse . 
But do you , prithee , speak with him again . 
So the Earl's daughter spoke to the man . 
If you were not so bitter ugly , quoth she , my father the Earl would have us marry . 
Bitter ugly am I , said the man , and you as fair as May . 
But come , quoth the Earl's daughter , this is a very strange thing , that you would have me wed for a shoe of a horse , and it rusty . 
In my thought , quoth the man , one thing is as good Oh , spare me that , said the Earl's daughter , and tell me why I should marry . 
Listen and look , said the man . 
Come , said the man , behold a vision of our children , the busy hearth , and the white heads . 
And let that suffice , for it is all God offers . 
I have no delight in it , said she but with that she sighed . 
The ways of life are straight like the grooves of launching , said the man and he took her by the hand . 
And what shall we do with the horseshoe ? quoth she . 
I will give it to your father , said the man and he can make a kirk and a mill of it for me . 
It came to pass in time that the Poor Thing was born but memory of these matters slept within him , and he knew not that which he had done . 
THE SONG OF THE MORROW . 
Here she dwelt and grew up , and had no care for the morrow , and no power upon the hour , after the manner of simple men . 
This was the loneliest beach between two seas , and strange things had been done there in the ancient ages . 
Now the King's daughter was aware of a crone that sat upon the beach . 
The sea foam ran to her feet , and the dead leaves swarmed about her back , and the rags blew about her face in the blowing of the wind . 
Now , said the King's daughter , and she named a holy name , this is the most unhappy old crone between two seas . 
Thought for the morrow , that I have , said the King's daughter but power upon the hour , that have I not . 
And she mused with herself . 
Then the crone smote her lean hands one within the other , and laughed like a sea gull . 
O daughter of a King , home to your stone house for the longing is come upon you now , nor can you live any more after the manner of simple men . 
Home , and toil and suffer , till the gift come that will make you bare , and till the man come that will bring you care . 
The King's daughter made no more ado , but she turned about and went home to her house in silence . 
And when she was come into her chamber she called for her nurse . 
Nurse , said the King's daughter , thought is come upon me for the morrow , so that I can live no more after the manner of simple men . 
Tell me what I must do that I may have power upon the hour . 
Then the nurse moaned like a snow wind . 
Alas ! said she , that this thing should be but the thought is gone into your marrow , nor is there any cure against the thought . 
So the King's daughter sat in her vaulted chamber in the masoned house , and she thought upon the thought . 
Nine years she sat and the sea beat upon the terrace , and the gulls cried about the turrets , and wind crooned in the chimneys of the house . 
Nine years she came not abroad , nor tasted the clean air , neither saw God's sky . 
Nine years she sat and looked neither to the right nor to the left , nor heard speech of any one , but thought upon the thought of the morrow . 
And her nurse fed her in silence , and she took of the food with her left hand , and ate it without grace . 
Now when the nine years were out , it fell dusk in the autumn , and there came a sound in the wind like a sound of piping . 
At that the nurse lifted up her finger in the vaulted house . 
I hear a sound in the wind , said she , that is like the sound of piping . 
It is but a little sound , said the King's daughter , but yet is it sound enough for me . 
So they went down in the dusk to the doors of the house , and along the beach of the sea . 
And the waves beat upon the one hand , and upon the other the dead leaves ran and the clouds raced in the sky , and the gulls flew widdershins . 
And when they came to that part of the beach where strange things had been done in the ancient ages , lo , there was the crone , and she was dancing widdershins . 
And it is for that that I dance widdershins . 
For the gift comes that will make you bare , and the man comes that must bring you care . 
But for me the morrow is come that I have thought upon , and the hour of my power . 
This is the strangest thing that befell between two seas , said the King's daughter of Duntrine . 
But the nurse broke out and moaned like an autumn gale . 
I am weary of the wind , quoth she and she bewailed her day . 
The King's daughter was aware of a man upon the beach he went hooded so that none might perceive his face , and a pipe was underneath his arm . 
The sound of his pipe was like singing wasps , and like the wind that sings in windlestraw and it took hold upon men's ears like the crying of gulls . 
Are you the comer ? quoth the King's daughter of Duntrine . 
And he piped the song of the morrow , and it was as long as years and the nurse wept out aloud at the hearing of it . 
And the man said , Upon whom ? Here is my nurse , quoth the King's daughter . 
She is weary of the wind . 
Show me a good marvel upon her . 
And , lo ! the nurse fell upon the beach as it were two handfuls of dead leaves , and the wind whirled them widdershins , and the sand lice hopped between . 
It is true , said the King's daughter of Duntrine , you are the comer , and you have power upon the hour . 
Come with me to my stone house . 
So they went by the sea margin , and the man piped the song of the morrow , and the leaves followed behind them as they went . 
Then they sat down together and the sea beat on the terrace , and the gulls cried about the towers , and the wind crooned in the chimneys of the house . 
And he piped it , and it was long like years . 
Then she cried to him with a great voice , This is the hour , and let me see the power in it . 
And the King's daughter of Duntrine got her to that part of the beach where strange things had been done in the ancient ages and there she sat her down . 
The sea foam ran to her feet , and the dead leaves swarmed about her back , and the veil blew about her face in the blowing of the wind . 
And when she lifted up her eyes , there was the daughter of a King come walking on the beach . 
