TO ELLEN EMERSON , FOR WHOM THEY WERE FANCIED , THESE FLOWER FABLES ARE INSCRIBED , BY HER FRIEND , THE AUTHOR . 
THE summer moon shone brightly down upon the sleeping earth , while far away from mortal eyes danced the Fairy folk . 
Under the shade of a wild rose sat the Queen and her little Maids of Honor , beside the silvery mushroom where the feast was spread . 
I will begin with you , Sunny Lock , added she , turning to a lovely little Elf , who lay among the fragrant leaves of a primrose . 
With a gay smile , Sunny Lock began her story . 
As I was painting the bright petals of a blue bell , it told me this tale . 
THE FROST KING OR , THE POWER OF LOVE . 
THREE little Fairies sat in the fields eating their breakfast each among the leaves of her favorite flower , Daisy , Primrose , and Violet , were happy as Elves need be . 
Our good Queen is ever striving to keep the dear flowers from the power of the cruel Frost King many ways she tried , but all have failed . 
Thus have we striven , and in vain and this night our Queen holds council for the last time . 
Therefore are we sad , dear Primrose , for she has toiled and cared for us , and we can do nothing to help or advise her now . 
It is indeed a cruel thing , replied her friend but as we cannot help it , we must suffer patiently , and not let the sorrows of others disturb our happiness . 
So , gathering a tiny mushroom for a parasol , she flew away Daisy soon followed , and Violet was left alone . 
What would the green earth be without its lovely flowers , and what a lonely home for us ! Their beauty fills our hearts with brightness , and their love with tender thoughts . 
How then may we keep our frail blossoms from his cruel spirits ? Who will give us counsel ? Who will be our messenger for the last time ? Speak , my subjects . 
Then a great murmuring arose , and many spoke , some for costlier gifts , some for war and the fearful counselled patience and submission . 
Long and eagerly they spoke , and their soft voices rose high . 
Then sweet music sounded on the air , and the loud tones were hushed , as in wondering silence the Fairies waited what should come . 
Then let me , the weakest of your band , go to him , trusting in the love I know lies hidden in the coldest heart . 
All who will aid our brave little messenger , lift your wands , that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of Love . 
Every fairy wand glistened in the air , as with silvery voices they cried , Love and little Violet . 
Then high above , on shining wings , soared a little form . 
The sunlight rested softly on the silken hair , and the winds fanned lovingly the bright face , and brought the sweetest odors to cheer her on . 
Then far below she saw the Frost King's home . 
Pillars of hard , gray ice supported the high , arched roof , hung with crystal icicles . 
With a beating heart Violet folded her fading wreath more closely to her breast , and with weary wings flew onward to the dreary palace . 
Here , before the closed doors , stood many forms with dark faces and harsh , discordant voices , who sternly asked the shivering little Fairy why she came to them . 
Gently she answered , telling them her errand , beseeching them to let her pass ere the cold wind blighted her frail blossoms . 
Then they flung wide the doors , and she passed in . 
Walls of ice , carved with strange figures , were around her glittering icicles hung from the high roof , and soft , white snow covered the hard floors . 
Let me call back to the desolate gardens the fair forms that are gone , and their soft voices blessing you will bring to your breast a never failing joy . 
Cast by your icy crown and sceptre , and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your heart . 
These fair flowers , with the prayers of all Fairy Land , I lay before you O send me not away till they are answered . 
But he drew the dark mantle closer over his breast and answered coldly , I cannot grant your prayer , little Fairy it is my will the flowers should die . 
Go back to your Queen , and tell her that I cannot yield my power to please these foolish flowers . 
So all alone she sat , and sad thoughts of her happy home came back to her , and she wept bitterly . 
But soon came visions of the gentle flowers dying in their forest homes , and their voices ringing in her ear , imploring her to save them . 
Then she wept no longer , but patiently awaited what might come . 
And you too , said she , shall spin for me , and I will give you better food than helpless insects . 
When the Frost Spirits told their King , he greatly wondered and often stole to look at the sunny little room where friends and enemies worked peacefully together . 
But he scornfully threw it aside , and bade his Spirits take her to a colder cell , deep in the earth and there with harsh words they left her . 
Ah , good Fairy , let us be your servants give us but a few crumbs of your daily bread , and we will do all in our power to serve you . 
Soon they came hastening back , and prayed him to come and see how lovely the dark cell had grown . 
Then the stern , cold thoughts came back again , and he harshly bid her follow him . 
With a sad farewell to her little friends she followed him , and before the throne awaited his command . 
Then listen , said the King , to the task I give you . 
You shall raise up for me a palace fairer than this , and if you can work that miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown . 
And now go forth , and begin your task my Spirits shall not harm you , and I will wait till it is done before I blight another flower . 
Then out into the gardens went Violet with a heavy heart for she had toiled so long , her strength was nearly gone . 
Meanwhile the golden light had faded from the garden , the flowers bowed their heads , and all was dark and cold as when the gentle Fairy came . 
So he wandered through his dreary palace , wondering how he had been content to live before without sunlight and love . 
Sadly they watched over every bird and blossom which she had loved , and strove to be like her in kindly words and deeds . 
They wore cypress wreaths , and spoke of her as one whom they should never see again . 
And while the Elves wept , he told them how patiently she had toiled , how her fadeless love had made the dark cell bright and beautiful . 
When the Elves had promised they would come , he bade farewell to happy Fairy Land , and flew sadly home . 
Soon through the air came many colored troops of Elves . 
Like his subjects , the King looked on the lovely Elves , and no longer wondered that little Violet wept and longed for her home . 
Darker and more desolate seemed his stately home , and when the Fairies asked for flowers , he felt ashamed that he had none to give them . 
At length a warm wind swept through the gardens , and the mist clouds passed away , while in silent wonder looked the Frost King and the Elves upon the scene before them . 
Flowering vines folded their soft leaves around the trees , making green pillars of their rough trunks . 
Fountains threw their bright waters to the roof , and flocks of silver winged birds flew singing among the flowers , or brooded lovingly above their nests . 
Doves with gentle eyes cooed among the green leaves , snow white clouds floated in the sunny shy , and the golden light , brighter than before , shone softly down . 
Soon through the long aisles came Violet , flowers and green leaves rustling as she passed . 
Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the happy earth , and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who would so gladly love and reverence you . 
Then take this glittering crown , hard and cold as your own heart will be , if you will shut out all that is bright and beautiful . 
Kind thought came thronging to his mind , and he turned to look at the two palaces . 
Violet's , so fair and beautiful , with its rustling trees , calm , sunny skies , and happy birds and flowers , all created by her patient love and care . 
We have served you long and faithfully , said they , give us now our freedom , that we may learn to be beloved by the sweet flowers we have harmed so long . 
Grant the little Fairy's prayer and let her go back to her own dear home . 
She has taught us that Love is mightier than Fear . 
Choose the Flower crown , and we will be the truest subjects you have ever had . 
Brighter grew the golden light , gayer sang the birds , and the harmonious voices of grateful flowers , sounding over the earth , carried new joy to all their gentle kindred . 
Brighter shone the golden shadows On the cool wind softly came The low , sweet tones of happy flowers , Singing little Violet's name . 
'Mong the green trees was it whispered , And the bright waves bore it on To the lonely forest flowers , Where the glad news had not gone . 
Thus the Frost King lost his kingdom , And his power to harm and blight . 
Thus , by Violet's magic power , All dark shadows passed away , And o'er the home of happy flowers The golden light for ever lay . 
Thus the Fairy mission ended , And all Flower Land was taught The Power of Love , by gentle deeds That little Violet wrought . 
As Sunny Lock ceased , another little Elf came forward and this was the tale Silver Wing told . 
EVA'S VISIT TO FAIRY LAND . 
As she was wondering where the waters went , she heard a faint , low sound , as of far off music . 
She thought it was the wind , but not a leaf was stirring , and soon through the rippling water came a strange little boat . 
On came the fairy boat , till it reached a moss grown rock and here it stopped , while the Fairies rested beneath the violet leaves , and sang with the dancing waves . 
Eva looked with wonder on their gay faces and bright garments , and in the joy of her heart sang too , and threw crimson fruit for the little folks to feast upon . 
Gladly would I go with you , dear Fairies , said Eva , but I cannot sail in your little boat . 
See ! I can hold you in my hand , and could not live among you without harming your tiny kingdom , I am so large . 
You cannot hurt us now . 
Look in the water and see what we have done . 
Eva looked into the brook , and saw a tiny child standing between the Elves . 
But the Fairies took each a hand , and flew lightly over the stream . 
The Queen and her subjects came to meet her , and all seemed glad to say some kindly word of welcome to the little stranger . 
They placed a flower crown upon her head , laid their soft faces against her own , and soon it seemed as if the gentle Elves had always been her friends . 
Now must we go home , said the Queen , and you shall go with us , little one . 
The cool waves' gentle plashing against the boat , and the sweet chime of the lily bells , lulled little Eva to sleep , and when she woke it was in Fairy Land . 
All was cool and still , and the Elves glided silently about , lest they should break their slumbers . 
They led Eva to a bed of pure white leaves , above which drooped the fragrant petals of a crimson rose . 
Now , little Eva , said they , you will see that Fairies are not idle , wilful Spirits , as mortals believe . 
Come , we will show you what we do . 
They led her to a lovely room , through whose walls of deep green leaves the light stole softly in . 
Then she went to the insects first to a little fly who lay in a flower leaf cradle . 
Do you suffer much , dear Gauzy Wing ? asked the Fairy . 
I will bind up your poor little leg , and Zephyr shall rock you to sleep . 
They passed on , and Eva saw beside each bed a Fairy , who with gentle hands and loving words soothed the suffering insects . 
Yet he seemed to find no rest , and murmured of the pain he was doomed to bear . 
Come here , Rose Leaf , and bind up my wounds , for I am far more useful than idle bird or fly . 
Then said the Fairy , while she bathed the broken wing , Love Blossom , you should not murmur . 
We may find happiness in seeking to be patient even while we suffer . 
Ah , Love Blossom , the gentle bird can teach a lesson you will be wiser and better for . 
Then a faint voice whispered , Little Rose Leaf , come quickly , or I cannot thank you as I ought for all your loving care of me . 
Come now to the Flower Palace , and see the Fairy Court . 
Beneath green arches , bright with birds and flowers , beside singing waves , went Eva into a lofty hall . 
Beside the throne stood Eva , and watched the lovely forms around her , as they stood , each little band in its own color , with glistening wings , and flower wands . 
She placed the child beside her , saying , Little Eva , you shall see now how the flowers on your great earth bloom so brightly . 
A band of loving little gardeners go daily forth from Fairy Land , to tend and watch them , that no harm may befall the gentle spirits that dwell beneath their leaves . 
This is never known , for like all good it is unseen by mortal eyes , and unto only pure hearts like yours do we make known our secret . 
Then came forth an Elf bearing a withered leaf , while her many colored robe and the purple tulips in her hair told her name and charge . 
They would yield neither dew nor honey , but proudly closed their leaves and bid me go . 
So can you , dear Rainbow , by loving words and gentle teachings , bring back lost purity and peace to those whom pride and selfishness have blighted . 
Go once again to the proud flowers , and tell them when they are queen of their own hearts they will ask no fairer kingdom . 
Watch more tenderly than ever over them , see that they lack neither dew nor air , speak lovingly to them , and let no unkind word or deed of theirs anger you . 
Let them see by your patient love and care how much fairer they might be , and when next you come , you will be laden with gifts from humble , loving flowers . 
Thus they told what they had done , and received from their Queen some gentle chiding or loving word of praise . 
Eva nodded to the gay little ones , as they peeped from among the leaves at the stranger , and then she listened to the Fairy lessons . 
Twinkle , if there lay nine seeds within a flower cup and the wind bore five away , how many would the blossom have ? Four , replied the little one . 
Harebell , if a silkworm spin one yard of Fairy cloth in an hour , how many will it spin in a day ? Twelve , said the Fairy child . 
Primrose , where ies Violet Island ? In the Lake of Ripples . 
Lilla , you may bound Rose Land . 
On the north by Ferndale , south by Sunny Wave River , east by the hill of Morning Clouds , and west by the Evening Star . 
Now , little ones , said the teacher , you may go to your painting , that our visitor may see how we repair the flowers that earthly hands have injured . 
You have stayed long enough , said the Elves at length , we have many things to show you . 
Come now and see what is our dearest work . 
So Eva said farewell to the child Elves , and hastened with little Rose Leaf to the gates . 
Here she saw many bands of Fairies , folded in dark mantles that mortals might not know them , who , with the child among them , flew away over hill and valley . 
Some went to the cottages amid the hills , some to the sea side to watch above the humble fisher folks but little Rose Leaf and many others went into the noisy city . 
Then they went into a dark and lonely room , and here they found a pale , sad eyed child , who wept bitter tears over a faded flower . 
Tenderly the child fastened the drooping stem , and placed it where the one faint ray of sunlight stole into the dreary room . 
Do you see , said the Elves , through this simple flower will we keep the child pure and stainless amid the sin and sorrow around her . 
The love of this shall lead her on through temptation and through grief , and she shall be a spirit of joy and consolation to the sinful and the sorrowing . 
No sunlight could enter at the darkened eyes , and none were near to whisper gentle words , to cheer and comfort . 
Thus he dwelt forgotten and alone , seeking to give no joy to others , possessing none himself . 
Life was dark and sad till the untiring Elves came to his dreary home , bringing sunlight and love . 
They brought light hearted children , who gathered round him , making the desolate home fair with their young faces , and his sad heart gay with their sweet , childish voices . 
The love they bore he could not cast away , sunlight stole in , the dark thoughts passed away , and the earth was a pleasant home to him . 
Then went the Elves into the dreary prison houses , where sad hearts pined in lonely sorrow for the joy and freedom they had lost . 
Thus to all who needed help or comfort went the faithful Fairies and when at length they turned towards Fairy Land , many were the grateful , happy hearts they left behind . 
Then through the summer sky , above the blossoming earth , they journeyed home , happier for the joy they had given , wiser for the good they had done . 
All Fairy Land was dressed in flowers , and the soft wind went singing by , laden with their fragrant breath . 
Sweet music sounded through the air , and troops of Elves in their gayest robes hastened to the palace where the feast was spread . 
Soon the bright hall was filled with smiling faces and fair forms , and little Eva , as she stood beside the Queen , thought she had never seen a sight so lovely . 
Long they feasted , gayly they sang , and Eva , dancing merrily among them , longed to be an Elf that she might dwell forever in so fair a home . 
Nay , do not weep , dear Rose Leaf you shall watch over little Eva's flowers , and when she looks at them she will think of you . 
Come now and lead her to the Fairy garden , and show her what we think our fairest sight . 
Weep no more , but strive to make her last hours with us happy as you can . 
Where have you brought me , and what mean these lovely sounds ? asked Eva . 
Look here , and you shall see , said Rose Leaf , as she bent aside the vines , but listen silently or you cannot hear . 
The child saw that each one wore the colors of the flower that was its home . 
The humblest flower that blooms has a home with us , for outward beauty is a worthless thing if all be not fair and sweet within . 
We watched and saw how fair and sweet the humble flower grew , and then gladly bore her here , to blossom with the lily and the rose . 
Come now , for you have seen enough , and we must be away . 
On a rosy morning cloud , surrounded by the loving Elves , went Eva through the sunny sky . 
The fresh wind bore them gently on , and soon they stood again beside the brook , whose waves danced brightly as if to welcome them . 
Grant me this gift , and you shall see that little Eva has not forgotten what you have taught her . 
Remember Fairy Land and all your loving friends . 
Think of your little Rose Leaf when among the flowers . 
Thus she stood among the waving blossoms , with the Fairy garland in her hair , and happy feelings in her heart , better and wiser for her visit to Fairy Land . 
Now , Star Twinkle , what have you to teach ? asked the Queen . 
Nothing but a little song I heard the hare bells singing , replied the Fairy , and , taking her harp , sang , in a low , sweet voice THE FLOWER'S LESSON . 
That were better far than the dew drops that fall On the high and the low , and come alike to all . 
I would be fair and stately , with a bright star to shine And give a queenly air to this crimson robe of mine . 
And proudly she cried , These fire flies shall be My jewels , since the stars can never come to me . 
O my foolish little bud , do listen to thy mother Care only for true beauty , and seek for no other . 
There will be grief and trouble in that wilful little heart Unfold thy leaves , my daughter , and let the fly depart . 
When the sun came up , she saw with grief The blooming of her sister bud leaf by leaf . 
While she , once as fair and bright as the rest , Hung her weary head down on her wounded breast . 
Then bitterly she wept for her folly and pride , As drooping she stood by her fair sister's side . 
So when the quiet Autumn of thy fragrant life shall come , Thou mayst pass away , to bloom in the Flower Spirits' home . 
You shall come next , Zephyr . 
ONCE upon a time , two little Fairies went out into the world , to seek their fortune . 
Thistle down was as gay and gallant a little Elf as ever spread a wing . 
His purple mantle , and doublet of green , were embroidered with the brightest threads , and the plume in his cap came always from the wing of the gayest butterfly . 
Such was Thistledown but far different was his little friend , Lily Bell . 
So the kind little Fairy left her home and friends to go with him and thus , side by side , they flew beneath the bright summer sky . 
See , cried Thistledown , what a lovely home is here let us rest among the cool leaves , and hear the flowers sing , for I am sadly tired and hungry . 
Now , dear Thistle , do not harm these friendly blossoms , said Lily Bell see how kindly they spread their leaves , and offer us their dew . 
It would be very wrong in you to repay their care with cruelty and pain . 
You will be tender for my sake , dear Thistle . 
While Lily Bell lay dreaming among the rose leaves , Thistledown went wandering through the garden . 
First he robbed the bees of their honey , and rudely shook the little flowers , that he might get the dew they had gathered to bathe their buds in . 
Thus he went , leaving sorrow and pain behind him , till he came to the roses where Lily Bell lay sleeping . 
There , weary of his cruel sport , he stayed to rest beneath a graceful rose tree , where grew one blooming flower and a tiny bud . 
You silly flower , said Thistledown , see how quickly I will make you bloom ! your waiting is all useless . 
Soon the sky grew dark , and heavy drops began to fall . 
You need not come to us for another mantle , when the rain has spoilt your fine one and do not stay here , or we will do you harm . 
Then they waved their broad leaves stormily , and scattered the heavy drops on his dripping garments . 
We are very angry with you , wicked Fairy go away and hide yourself . 
Ah , cried the shivering Elf , where can I find shelter ? I will go to the violets they will forgive and take me in . 
But the daisies had spoken truly the gentle little flower was dead , and her blue eyed sisters were weeping bitterly over her faded leaves . 
Now I have no friends , sighed poor Thistle down , and must die of cold . 
Ah , if I had but minded Lily Bell , I might now be dreaming beneath some flower's leaves . 
Others can forgive and love , beside Lily Bell and Violet , said a faint , sweet voice I have no little bud to shelter now , and you can enter here . 
It was the rose mother that spoke , and Thistle saw how pale the bright leaves had grown , and how the slender stem was bowed . 
But he could find no rest . 
Never could I forgive one who had robbed me of my children . 
Dear Violet is not the only one who will leave us , sobbed little Mignonette the rose mother will fade like her little bud , and we shall lose our gentlest teacher . 
The angry words were hushed , and through the long night nothing was heard but the dropping of the rain , and the low sighs of the rose . 
Soon the sunlight came again , and with it Lily Bell seeking for Thistledown but he was ashamed , and stole away . 
Meanwhile , over hill and dale went Thistledown , and for a time was kind and gentle to every living thing . 
Help me to bear my honey home , and you can stay with us tonight , he kindly said . 
So Thistle gladly went with him , and soon they came to a pleasant garden , where among the fairest flowers stood the hive , covered with vines and overhung with blossoming trees . 
Glow worms stood at the door to light them home , and as they passed in , the Fairy thought how charming it must be to dwell in such a lovely place . 
The floor of wax was pure and white as marble , while the walls were formed of golden honey comb , and the air was fragrant with the breath of flowers . 
You cannot see our Queen to night , said the little bee , but I will show you to a bed where you can rest . 
And he led the tired Fairy to a little cell , where on a bed of flower leaves he folded his wings and fell asleep . 
As the first ray of sunlight stole in , he was awakened by sweet music . 
It was the morning song of the bees . 
Awake ! awake ! for the earliest gleam Of golden sunlight shines On the rippling waves , that brightly flow Beneath the flowering vines . 
Awake ! awake ! for the summer wind Hath bidden the blossoms unclose , Hath opened the violet's soft blue eye , And wakened the sleeping rose . 
And lightly they wave on their slender stems Fragrant , and fresh , and fair , Waiting for us , as we singing come To gather our honey dew there . 
Some bore her fresh dew and honey , some fanned her with fragrant flower leaves , while others scattered the sweetest perfumes on the air . 
Little Fairy , said the Queen , you are welcome to my palace and we will gladly have you stay with us , if you will obey our laws . 
We do not spend the pleasant summer days in idleness and pleasure , but each one labors for the happiness and good of all . 
If you will stay with us , we will teach you many things . 
Order , patience , industry , who can teach so well as they who are the emblems of these virtues ? Our laws are few and simple . 
Then they took away his gay garments , and dressed him like themselves , in the black velvet cloak with golden bands across his breast . 
Now come with us , they said . 
But he soon grew tired of working all day in the sun , and longed to be free again . 
I cannot let my peaceful kingdom be disturbed by you therefore go and seek another home . 
You may find other friends , but none will love you more than we , had you been worthy of it so farewell . 
And the doors of the once happy home he had disturbed were closed behind him . 
Then he was very angry , and determined to bring some great sorrow on the good Queen . 
Come , we will take what we have made , and think no more of what the Queen has said . 
After many wanderings , he came at length to a great forest , and here beside a still lake he stayed to rest . 
Delicate wood flowers grew near him in the deep green moss , with drooping heads , as if they listened to the soft wind sing ing among the pines . 
Bright eyed birds peeped at him from their nests , and many colored insects danced above the cool , still lake . 
This is a pleasant place , said Thistle it shall be my home for a while . 
Come hither , blue dragon fly , I would gladly make a friend of you , for I am all alone . 
At length his friend the dragon fly besought him to leave the quiet home he had disturbed . 
The cruel spider gladly obeyed the ungrateful Fairy and soon the poor fly could move neither leg nor wing . 
Then Thistle flew away through the wood , leaving sorrow and trouble behind him . 
He had not journeyed far before he grew weary , and lay down to rest . 
When you have learned this , I will set you free . 
Thus did poor Thistle strive to be more gentle and unselfish , and grew daily happier and better . 
Now while Thistledown was a captive in the lonely cell , Lily Bell was seeking him far and wide , and sadly traced him by the sorrowing hearts he had left behind . 
She healed the drooping flowers , cheered the Queen Bee's grief , brought back her discontented subjects , restored the home to peace and order , and left them blessing her . 
Thus she journeyed on , till she reached the forest where Thistledown had lost his freedom . 
Then Lily Bell went seeking through the forest , listening for the voice . 
Thistledown ! Thistledown ! O'er hill and dell Hither to comfort thee Comes Lily Bell . 
Then from the vine leaves two little arms were stretched out to her , and Thistledown was found . 
But it did not last long , for one day she did not come . 
He watched and waited long , for the little face that used to peep smiling in through the vine leaves . 
At last he besought the silent Brownie earnestly to tell him whither she had gone . 
I will bear and suffer any danger for her sake . 
Lily Bell is safe , replied the Brownie come , you shall learn the trial that awaits you . 
You cannot wake her , said the Brownie , as Thistle folded his arms tenderly about her . 
It is a magic slumber , and she will not wake till you shall bring hither gifts from the Earth , Air , and Water Spirits . 
'T is a long and weary task , for you have made no friends to help you , and will have to seek for them alone . 
Then Thistle , with a last look on the little friend he loved so well , set forth alone to his long task . 
The home of the Earth Spirits was the first to find , and no one would tell him where to look . 
So far and wide he wandered , through gloomy forests and among lonely hills , with none to cheer him when sad and weary , none to guide him on his way . 
But few believed him for they remembered his false promises and evil deeds , and would not trust him now so poor Thistle found few to love or care for him . 
Long he wandered , and carefully he sought but could not find the Earth Spirits' home . 
So , even if I never find the Spirits , I shall be worthier Lily Bell's affection if I strive to atone for the wrong I have done . 
Then he went among the flowers , but they closed their leaves , and shrank away , trembling with fear while the birds fled to hide among the leaves as he passed . 
This grieved poor Thistle , and he longed to tell them how changed he had become but they would not listen . 
He came one day , while wandering through the garden , to the little rose he had once harmed so sadly . 
Many buds now bloomed beside her , and her soft face glowed with motherly pride , as she bent fondly over them . 
Her gentleness has changed my cruelty to kindness , and I would gladly repay all for the harm I have done but none will love and trust me now . 
Make your home among us , and my sister flowers will soon learn to love you as you deserve . 
Not for sweet Lily Bell's sake , but for your own , will I become your friend for you are kind and gentle now , and worthy of our love . 
Look up , my little ones , there is no danger near look up , and welcome Thistle to our home . 
Ah , do not doubt him ! cried warm hearted little Mignonette surely some good spirit has changed the wicked Thistle into this good little Elf . 
See how tenderly he lifts aside the leaves that overshadow pale Harebell , and listen now how softly he sings as he rocks little Eglantine to sleep . 
He has done many friendly things , though none save Rose Leaf has been kind to him , and he is very sad . 
Last night when I awoke to draw my curtains closer , he sat weeping in the moonlight , so bitterly , I longed to speak a kindly word to him . 
Dear sisters , let us trust him . 
On they went , and after a while , reached a path lit up by bright jewels hung upon the walls . 
Then they went quickly up the winding path , and Thistle , guided by the sweet music , went on alone . 
Long Thistle stood watching the brilliant forms that flashed and sparkled round him but he missed the flowers and the sunlight , and rejoiced that he was not an Earth Spirit . 
At last they spied him out , and , gladly welcoming him , bade him join in their dance . 
And Thistle said , No task will be too hard for me to do for dear Lily Bell's sake . 
What do they here ? asked Thistle . 
I will tell , replied little Sparkle , for I once worked here myself . 
Others shape the bright jewels into lovely forms , and make the good luck pennies which we give to mortals whom we love . 
And here you must toil till the golden flower is won . 
Then Thistle went among the Spirits , and joined in their tasks he tended the flower roots , gathered the water drops , and formed the good luck pennies . 
At length came little Sparkle to him , saying , You have done enough come now , and dance and feast with us , for the golden flower is won . 
But Thistle could not stay , for half his task was not yet done and he longed for sunlight and Lily Bell . 
It was early morning , and the rosy light shone brightly through the lily leaves upon her , as Thistle entered , and laid his first gift at the Brownie King's feet . 
You have done well , said he , we hear good tidings of you from bird and flower , and you are truly seeking to repair the evil you have done . 
Take now one look at your little friend , and then go forth to seek from the Air Spirits your second gift . 
So he flew down into the field below , and hastened busily from flower to flower , till he had filled a tiny blue bell with sweet , fresh honey . 
Then he stole softly to the hive , and , placing it near the door , concealed himself to watch . 
Soon his friend Nimble Wing came flying home , and when he spied the little cup , he hummed with joy , and called his companions around him . 
So each day Thistle filled a flower cup , and laid it at the door and each day the bees wondered more and more , for many strange things happened . 
What shall we do to you , naughty Elf ? said they . 
You are in our power , and we will sting you if you are not still . 
Let us close the flower leaves around him and leave him here to starve , cried one , who had not yet forgotten all the sorrow Thistle had caused them long ago . 
See how bitterly he weeps be kind to him , he will not harm us more . 
You good little Hum ! cried a kind hearted robin who had hopped near to listen to the bees . 
Be kind to him , for if he has done wrong , he has repented of it , as you may see . 
Can this be naughty Thistle ? said Nimble Wing . 
Yes , it is I , said Thistle , but no longer cruel and unkind . 
I have tried to win your love by patient industry . 
Ah , trust me now , and you shall see I am not naughty Thistle any more . 
Little Hum joyfully obeyed and Thistle followed him , as he flew higher and higher among the soft clouds , till in the distance they saw a radiant light . 
The sky was gold and purple like an autumn sunset , and long walls of brilliant clouds lay round him . 
A rosy light shone through the silver mist , on gleaming columns and the rainbow roof soft , fragrant winds went whispering by , and airy little forms were flitting to and fro . 
Long Thistle wondered at the beauty round him and then he went among the shining Spirits , told his tale , and asked a gift . 
But they answered like the Earth Spirits . 
These are the things we do , said they , and you must aid us for a time . 
Many a kind deed was done , many a gentle word was spoken and each day lighter grew his heart , and stronger his power of giving joy to others . 
At length Star Light bade him work no more , and gladly gave him the gift he had won . 
Then his second task was done , and he flew gayly back to the green earth and slumbering Lily Bell . 
The silvery moonlight shone upon her , as he came to give his second gift and the Brownie spoke more kindly than before . 
One more trial , Thistle , and she will awake . 
Go bravely forth and win your last and hardest gift . 
Then with a light heart Thistle journeyed away to the brooks and rivers , seeking the Water Spirits . 
But he looked in vain till , wandering through the forest where the Brownies took him captive , he stopped beside the quiet lake . 
Thistle bent tenderly beside him , saying , Dear Flutter , do not fear me . 
Forgive , and let me help and comfort you . 
Then he bound up the broken wing , and spoke so tenderly that Flutter doubted him no longer , and was his friend again . 
At length the broken wing was well , and Thistle said he must again seek the Water Spirits . 
I can tell you where to find them , said Flutter you must follow yonder little brook , and it will lead you to the sea , where the Spirits dwell . 
I would gladly do more for you , dear Thistle , but I cannot , for they live deep beneath the waves . 
You will find some kind friend to aid you on your way and so farewell . 
Thistle followed the little brook , as it flowed through field and valley , growing ever larger , till it reached the sea . 
Here the wind blew freshly , and the great waves rolled and broke at Thistle's feet , as he stood upon the shore , watching the billows dancing and sparkling in the sun . 
So he flew hither and thither over the sea , looking through the waves . 
Soon he saw , far below , the branches of the coral tree . 
They must be here , thought he , and , folding his wings , he plunged into the deep , cold sea . 
But he saw only fearful monsters and dark shapes that gathered round him and , trembling with fear , he struggled up again . 
The great waves tossed him to and fro , and cast him bruised and faint upon the shore . 
Tell me your sorrow , and I will comfort you . 
And Thistle , looking up , saw a white sea bird at his side , who tried with friendly words to cheer him . 
So he told all his wanderings , and how he sought the Sea Spirits . 
Surely , if bee and blossom do their part to help you , birds should aid you too , said the Sea bird . 
I will call my friend , the Nautilus , and he will bear you safely to the Coral Palace where the Spirits dwell . 
So , spreading his great wings , he flew away , and soon Thistle saw a little boat come dancing over the waves , and wait beside the shore for him . 
Nautilus raised his little sail to the wind , and the light boat glided swiftly over the blue sea . 
At last Thistle cried , I see lovely arches far below let me go , it is the Spirits' home . 
Nay , close your eyes , and trust to me . 
I will bear you safely down , said Nautilus . 
So Thistle closed his eyes , and listened to the murmur of the sea , as they sank slowly through the waves . 
The soft sound lulled him to sleep , and when he awoke the boat was gone , and he stood among the Water Spirits , in their strange and lovely home . 
A cool , fresh wind swept through the waving garlands of bright sea moss , and the distant murmur of dashing waves came softly on the air . 
Day after day went by , and slowly Thistle's task drew towards an end . 
Then up through the cold , blue waves he swiftly glided , and , shaking the bright drops from his wings , soared singing up to the sunny sky . 
Soon the forest where Lily Bell lay sleeping rose before him , and as he passed along the cool , dim wood paths , never had they seemed so fair . 
But when he came where his little friend had slept , it was no longer the dark , silent spot where he last saw her . 
Garlands hung from every tree , and the fairest flowers filled the air with their sweet breath . 
But the fairest sight was Lily Bell , as she lay on the couch of velvet moss that Fairy hands had spread . 
The golden flower lay beside her , and the glittering robe was folded round her little form . 
The warmest sunlight fell upon her , and the softest breezes lifted her shining hair . 
Then , with a smile , Lily Bell awoke , and looked with wondering eyes upon the beauty that had risen round her . 
Dear Thistle , what mean these fair things , and why are we in this lovely place ? Listen , Lily Bell , said the Brownie King , as he appeared beside her . 
You have learned the beauty of a gentle , kindly heart , dear Thistle and you are now worthy to become the friend of her for whom you have done so much . 
Place the crown upon her head , for she is Queen of all the Forest Fairies now . 
If I am Queen , then you are King , dear Thistle , said the Fairy . 
Take the crown , and I will have a wreath of flowers . 
You have toiled and suffered for my sake , and you alone should rule over these little Elves whose love you have won . 
Keep your crown , Lily Bell , for yonder come the Spirits with their gifts to Thistle , said the Brownie . 
Dear Thistle , said the shining Spirit , what you toiled so faithfully to win for another , let us offer now as a token of our love for you . 
IN a great forest , high up among the green boughs , lived Bird Brown Breast , and his bright eyed little mate . 
Things went smoothly on , till one day she found in the nest a little white egg , with a golden band about it . 
So they said nothing about it , and soon their home had four little chirping children and then the white egg opened , and , behold , a little maiden lay singing within . 
Then how amazed were they , and how they welcomed her , as she lay warm beneath the mother's wing , and how the young birds did love her . 
And the tiny maiden talked to them , and sang so merrily , that they could have listened for ever . 
The father now had much to do to supply his family with food , and choice morsels did he bring little Bud . 
Look at our robes , they are like the withered leaves our wings are dim , our crowns are gone , and we lead sad , lonely lives in this dark forest . 
Let us stay with you your gay music sounds like Fairy songs , and you have such a friendly way with you , and speak so gently to us . 
It is good to be near one so lovely and so kind and you can tell us how we may again become fair and innocent . 
Say we may stay with you , kind little maiden . 
I will tell her that you are repentant , and will do anything to gain her love again that you are sad , and long to be forgiven . 
This will I say , and more , and trust she will grant my prayer . 
Go , Bud , and if there be power in Fairy gifts , you shall be as happy as our hearts' best love can make you . 
Nay , you shall not go on your feet , my child , said Mother Brown Breast your friend Golden Wing shall carry you . 
Call him hither , that I may seat you rightly , for if you should fall off my heart would break . 
Then they all sang gayly together , till she passed out of sight over the hills , and they saw her no more . 
And now Bud left the old forest far behind her . 
As Bud passed through the gates , she no longer wondered that the exiled Fairies wept and sorrowed for the lovely home they had lost . 
And as she prayed , many wept with her and when she ceased , and waited for her answer , many knelt beside her , praying forgiveness for the unhappy Elves . 
With tearful eyes , Queen Dew Drop replied , Little maiden , your prayer has softened my heart . 
They shall not be left sorrowing and alone , nor shall you go back without a kindly word to cheer and comfort them . 
We will pardon their fault , and when they can bring hither a perfect Fairy crown , robe , and wand , they shall be again received as children of their loving Queen . 
The task is hard , for none but the best and purest can form the Fairy garments yet with patience they may yet restore their robes to their former brightness . 
Farewell , good little maiden come with them , for but for you they would have dwelt for ever without the walls of Fairy Land . 
Good speed to you , and farewell , cried they all , as , with loving messages to their poor friends , they bore her to the gates . 
Day after day toiled little Bud , cheering the Fairies , who , angry and disappointed , would not listen to her gentle words , but turned away and sat alone weeping . 
Then they planted the lilies but they soon drooped and died , and no light came to their crowns . 
They did no gentle deeds , but cared only for themselves and when they found their labor was in vain , they tried no longer , but sat weeping . 
Go and strive again , for till all is once more fair and pure , I cannot call you mine . 
Time passed on , and the Fairies had done nothing to gain their lovely home again . 
Then , one by one , the Elves secretly did some little work of kindness , and found a quiet joy come back to repay them . 
Flowers looked lovingly up as they passed , birds sang to cheer them when sad thoughts made them weep . 
And soon little Bud found out their gentle deeds , and her friendly words gave them new strength . 
So day after day they followed her , and like a band of guardian spirits they flew far and wide , carrying with them joy and peace . 
They sent lovely visions to the old and blind , to make their hearts young and bright with happy thoughts . 
One day came little Bud to them , saying , Listen , dear friends . 
I have a hard task to offer you . 
But in the sunny Spring when they bloom again , their love and gratitude will give you happy homes among their bright leaves . 
It is a wearisome task , and I can give you no reward for all your tender care , but the blessings of the gentle flowers you will have saved from death . 
These things must I do but when the flowers bloom again I will be with you , to welcome back our friends from over the sea . 
Yes , dear Bud , we will gladly toil among the roots , that the fair flowers may wear their gayest robes to welcome you . 
Then deep in the earth the Fairies dwelt , and no frost or snow could harm the blossoms they tended . 
Every little seed was laid in the soft earth , watered , and watched . 
At length the snow was gone , and they heard little voices calling them to come up but patiently they worked , till seed and root were green and strong . 
Then came the merry birds , making the wood alive with their gay voices , calling to one another , as they flew among the vines , building their little homes . 
Long waited the Elves , and at last she came with Father Brown Breast . 
Happy days passed and summer flowers were in their fullest beauty , when Bud bade the Fairies come with her . 
Mounted on bright winged butterflies , they flew over forest and meadow , till with joyful eyes they saw the flower crowned walls of Fairy Land . 
Before the gates they stood , and soon troops of loving Elves came forth to meet them . 
She needed no reward but the joy she had given . 
The Fairy hearts were pure again , and her work was done yet all Fairy Land had learned a lesson from gentle little Bud . 
No rude hand came to gather them , No chilling winds to blight Warm sunbeams smiled on them by day , And soft dews fell at night . 
So here , along the brook side , Beneath the green old trees , The flowers dwelt among their friends , The sunbeams and the breeze . 
One morning , as the flowers awoke , Fragrant , and fresh , and fair , A little worm came creeping by , And begged a shelter there . 
I am not fair , and have dwelt unloved By butterfly , bird , and bee . 
They little knew that in this dark form Lay the beauty they yet may see . 
Then let me lie in the deep green moss , And weave my little tomb , And sleep my long , unbroken sleep Till Spring's first flowers come . 
Little Houstonia seornfully laughed , As she danced on her slender stem While the cowslip bent to the rippling waves , And whispered the tale to them . 
A blue eyed grass looked down on the worm , As it silently turned away , And cried , Thou wilt harm our delicate leaves , And therefore thou canst not stay . 
Down through the leaves the sunlight stole , And seemed to linger there , As if it loved to brighten the home Of one so sweet and fair . 
Then , deep in its quiet mossy bed , Sheltered from sun and shower , The grateful worm spun its winter tomb , In the shadow of the flower . 
And Clover guarded well its rest , Till Autumn's leaves were sere , Till all her sister flowers were gone , And her winter sleep drew near . 
Then her withered leaves were softly spread O'er the sleeping worm below , Ere the faithful little flower lay Beneath the winter snow . 
Spring came again , and the flowers rose From their quiet winter graves , And gayly danced on their slender stems , And sang with the rippling waves . 
Softly the warm winds kissed their cheeks Brightly the sunbeams fell , As , one by one , they came again In their summer homes to dwell . 
And little Clover bloomed once more , Rosy , and sweet , and fair , And patiently watched by the mossy bed , For the worm still slumbered there . 
We pity thee , foolish little flower , To trust what the false worm said He will not come in a fairer dress , For he lies in the green moss dead . 
But little Clover still watched on , Alone in her sunny home She did not doubt the poor worm's truth , And trusted he would come . 
At last the small cell opened wide , And a glittering butterfly , From out the moss , on golden wings , Soared up to the sunny sky . 
Then the wondering flowers cried aloud , Clover , thy watch was vain He only sought a shelter here , And never will come again . 
And the unkind flowers danced for joy , When they saw him thus depart For the love of a beautiful butterfly Is dear to a flower's heart . 
They feared he would stay in Clover's home , And her tender care repay So they danced for joy , when at last he rose And silently flew away . 
Spread wide your leaves , that he may choose The flower he deems most fair . 
Then the wild rose glowed with a deeper blush , As she proudly waved on her stem The Cowslip bent to the clear blue waves , And made her mirror of them . 
Little Houstonia merrily danced , And spread her white leaves wide While Daisy whispered her joy and hope , As she stood by her gay friends' side . 
Violet peeped from the tall green ferns , And lifted her soft blue eye To watch the glittering form , that shone Afar in the summer sky . 
They thought no more of the ugly worm , Who once had wakened their scorn But looked and longed for the butterfly now , As the soft wind bore him on . 
Nearer and nearer the bright form came , And fairer the blossoms grew Each welcomed him , in her sweetest tones Each offered her honey and dew . 
But in vain did they beckon , and smile , and call , And wider their leaves unclose The glittering form still floated on , By Violet , Daisy , and Rose . 
Lightly it flew to the pleasant home Of the flower most truly fair , On Clover's breast he softly lit , And folded his bright wings there . 
Sunbeam and breeze shall come to thee , And the coolest dews that fall Whate'er a flower can wish is thine , For thou art worthy all . 
And the home thou shared with the friendless worm The butterfly's home shall be And thou shalt find , dear , faithful flower , A loving friend in me . 
Then , through the long , bright summer hours Through sunshine and through shower , Together in their happy home Dwelt butterfly and flower . 
Ah , that is very lovely , cried the Elves , gathering round little Sunbeam as she ceased , to place a garland in her hair and praise her song . 
Now , said the Queen , call hither Moon light and Summer Wind , for they have seen many pleasant things in their long wanderings , and will gladly tell us them . 
Most joyfully will we do our best , dear Queen , said the Elves , as they folded their wings beside her . 
But Annie paid no heed to sun , or wind , or flower still the bright tears fell , and she forgot all but her sorrow . 
Who are you , lovely little thing ? cried Annie , smiling through her tears . 
Bend hither , that I may place it in your breast no hand can take it hence , till I unsay the spell that holds it there . 
As thus she spoke , the Elf took from her bosom a graceful flower , whose snow white leaves shone with a strange , soft light . 
This is a fairy flower , said the Elf , invisible to every eye save yours now listen while I tell its power , Annie . 
O kind and generous Fairy , how can I ever thank you for this lovely gift ! cried Annie . 
I will be true , and listen to my little bell whenever it may ring . 
But shall I never see YOU more ? Ah ! if you would only stay with me , I should indeed be good . 
And now farewell , dear child be faithful to yourself , and the magic flower will never fade . 
And little Annie sat among her flowers , and watched with wondering joy the fairy blossom shining on her breast . 
I will not listen to this tiresome music more , nor wear this withered flower longer . 
Now will I go among the hills , said Annie , she may be there . 
So up and down the green hill sides went her little feet long she searched and vainly she called but still no Fairy came . 
And all night long beside her stood the Fairy she had sought , and by elfin spell and charm sent to the sleeping child this dream . 
Little Annie dreamed she sat in her own garden , as she had often sat before , with angry feelings in her heart , and unkind words upon her lips . 
Then Annie saw , with fear and wonder , that the angry words she uttered changed to dark , unlovely forms , each showing plainly from what fault or passion it had sprung . 
Some of the shapes had scowling faces and bright , fiery eyes these were the spirits of Anger . 
Spirits of Pride were there , who folded their shadowy garments round them , and turned scornfully away from all the rest . 
These and many others little Annie saw , which had come from her own heart , and taken form before her eyes . 
When first she saw them , they were small and weak but as she looked they seemed to grow and gather strength , and each gained a strange power over her . 
She could not drive them from her sight , and they grew ever stronger , darker , and more unlovely to her eyes . 
Clearer and brighter grew the radiant light , till the evil spirits turned away to the dark shadow of the wall , and left the child alone . 
Remember well the lesson of the dream , dear child , and let the shining spirits make your heart their home . 
And suddenly the world seemed changed to Annie for the air was filled with strange , sweet sounds , and all around her floated lovely forms . 
In every flower sat little smiling Elves , singing gayly as they rocked amid the leaves . 
The tall trees , as their branches rustled in the wind , sang a low , dreamy song , while the waving grass was filled with little voices she had never heard before . 
Butterflies whispered lovely tales in her ear , and birds sang cheerful songs in a sweet language she had never understood before . 
Earth and air seemed filled with beauty and with music she had never dreamed of until now . 
And now , dear Annie , I must go but every Springtime , with the earliest flowers , will I come again to visit you , and bring some fairy gift . 
Guard well the magic flower , that I may find all fair and bright when next I come . 
When Moonlight ceased , Summer Wind laid down her rose leaf fan , and , leaning back in her acorn cup , told this tale of RIPPLE , THE WATER SPIRIT . 
Thus she could only weep for them , and lay them down to sleep where no cruel waves could harm them more . 
While Ripple sang above the little child , through the distant roar of winds and waves she heard a wild , sorrowing voice , that seemed to call for help . 
Long she listened , thinking it was but the echo of their own plaintive song , but high above the music still sounded the sad , wailing cry . 
But the waves dashed foaming up among the bare rocks at her feet , mingling their cold spray with her tears , and gave no answer to her prayer . 
Watch daily on the shore , and if I do not come again , then you will know my search has been in vain . 
Farewell , poor mother , you shall see your little child again , if Fairy power can win him back . 
And with these cheering words Ripple sprang into the sea while , smiling through her tears , the woman watched the gentle Spirit , till her bright crown vanished in the waves . 
When Ripple reached her home , she hastened to the palace of the Queen , and told her of the little child , the sorrowing mother , and the promise she had made . 
I pity the poor mother , and would most gladly help her but alas ! I am a Spirit like yourself , and cannot serve you as I long to do . 
Ah , dear Queen ! if you had seen her sorrow , you too would seek to keep the promise I have made . 
It is far , far away , high up above the sun , where no Spirit ever dared to venture yet , replied the Queen . 
I cannot show the path , for it is through the air . 
At length green hills were seen , and the waves gladly bore the little Spirit on , till , rippling gently over soft white sand , they left her on the pleasant shore . 
Ah , what a lovely place it is ! said Ripple , as she passed through sunny valleys , where flowers began to bloom , and young leaves rustled on the trees . 
And shall I see her , Violet , as she journeys over the earth ? asked Ripple again . 
I will ask Spring where the Fire Spirits dwell she travels over the earth each year , and surely can show me the way , thought Ripple , as she went journeying on . 
Farewell , little Spirit ! I would gladly do more , but voices are calling me far and wide , and I cannot stay . 
Then Spring flew on with her sunshine and flowers , and Ripple went swiftly over hill and vale , till she came to the land where Summer was dwelling . 
Now I must seek for Summer , said Ripple , as she sailed slowly through the sunny sky . 
Take this sunbeam from my crown it will cheer and brighten the most gloomy path through which you pass . 
Farewell ! I shall carry tidings of you to the watcher by the sea , if in my journey round the world I find her there . 
And Summer , giving her the sunbeam , passed away over the distant hills , leaving all green and bright behind her . 
So take this gift of mine , and when you meet his chilly winds , fold it about you , and sit warm beneath its shelter , till you come to sunlight again . 
I will carry comfort to the patient woman , as my sisters have already done , and tell her you are faithful still . 
Then on went the never tiring Breeze , over forest , hill , and field , till the sky grew dark , and bleak winds whistled by . 
It is a long , strange path , for a lonely little Spirit to be going the Fairies are wild , wilful things , and in their play may harm and trouble you . 
Come back with me , and do not go this dangerous journey to the sky . 
I'll gladly bear you home again , if you will come . 
But Ripple said , I cannot turn back now , when I am nearly there . 
So farewell , Winter ! Speak to her gently , and tell her to hope still , for I shall surely come . 
So farewell to the pleasant earth , until we come again . 
So hasten on , good Breeze , and bring me quickly to my journey's end . 
The Fire Spirits surely must be there , and I must stay no longer here , said Ripple . 
This is our Queen , the Spirits said , bending low before her , as she turned her gleaming eyes upon the stranger they had brought . 
So do not ask us for this thing but any other gift we will most gladly give , for we feel kindly towards you , and will serve you if we may . 
But Ripple asked no other boon , and , weeping sadly , begged them not to send her back without the gift she had come so far to gain . 
If you consent to this , then take our gift , and journey home again but fail not to return , or we shall seek you out . 
So each one gave a little of the fire from their breasts , and placed the flame in a crystal vase , through which it shone and glittered like a star . 
Then , bidding her remember all she had promised them , they led her to the golden arch , and said farewell . 
So , down along the shining path , through mist and cloud , she travelled back till , far below , she saw the broad blue sea she left so long ago . 
Now come , said they , and finish the good work you have so bravely carried on . 
So to the quiet tomb they went , where , like a marble image , cold and still , the little child was lying . 
Then gently the great wave broke , and rolled back to the sea , leaving Ripple on the shore , and the child clasped in his mother's arms . 
And now another task was to be done her promise to the Fire Spirits must be kept . 
Then the Fire Spirits looked upon her angrily , and when she begged them to be merciful , and let her try once more , saying , Do not keep me prisoner here . 
I cannot breathe the flames that give you life , and but for this snow mantle I too should melt away , and vanish like the jewels in your hands . 
O dear Spirits , give me some other task , but let me go from this warm place , where all is strange and fearful to a Spirit of the sea . 
Then Ripple sank down on the burning floor , and felt that her life was nearly done for she well knew the hot air of the fire palace would be death to her . 
O give us this ! cried they it is far lovelier than all the rest , and does not melt away like them and see how brilliantly it glitters in our hands . 
If we may but have this , all will be well , and you are once more free . 
Then , if we may not tell our pleasure so , we will show it in a different way , and give you a pleasant journey home . 
Come out with us , the Spirits said , and see the bright path we have made for you . 
So they led her to the lofty gate , and here , from sky to earth , a lovely rainbow arched its radiant colors in the sun . 
This is indeed a pleasant road , said Ripple . 
Thank you , friendly Spirits , for your care and now farewell . 
I would gladly stay yet longer , but we cannot dwell together , and I am longing sadly for my own cool home . 
Then down along the shining pathway spread before her , the happy little Spirit glided to the sea . 
And now , dear Trip , call them from the lake , for the moon is sinking fast , and we must hasten home . 
The Elves gathered about their Queen , and while the rustling leaves were still , and the flowers' sweet voices mingled with their own , they sang this FAIRY SONG . 
The moonlight fades from flower and tree , And the stars dim one by one The tale is told , the song is sung , And the Fairy feast is done . 
The night wind rocks the sleeping flowers , And sings to them , soft and low . 
The early birds erelong will wake 'T is time for the Elves to go . 
From bird , and blossom , and bee , We learn the lessons they teach And seek , by kindly deeds , to win A loving friend in each . 
And though unseen on earth we dwell , Sweet voices whisper low , And gentle hearts most joyously greet The Elves where'er they go . 
When next me meet in the Fairy dell , May the silver moon's soft light Shine then on faces gay as now , And Elfin hearts as light . 
Now spread each wing , for the eastern sky With sunlight soon will glow . 
The morning star shall light us home Farewell ! for the Elves must go . 
The end of the Project Gutenberg etext of Flower Fables by Alcott . 
