FIVE CHILDREN AND IT E. NESBIT TO JOHN BLAND My Lamb , you are so very small , You have not learned to read at all . 
Yet never a printed book withstands The urgence of your dimpled hands . 
So , though this book is for yourself , Let mother keep it on the shelf Till you can read . 
O days that Pass , That day will come too soon , alas ! CONTENTS . 
A Castle and No Dinner . 
Bigger Than the Baker's Boy . 
And then there was a white house with a green garden and an orchard beyond , and mother said , 'Here we are ! 'How white the house is , said Robert . 
'And look at the roses , said Anthea . 
'And the plums , said Jane . 
'It is rather decent , Cyril admitted . 
The Baby said , 'Wanty go walky' and the fly stopped with a last rattle and jolt . 
Everyone got its legs kicked or its feet trodden on in the scramble to get out of the carriage that very minute , but no one seemed to mind . 
But the children were wiser , for once . 
Father used to say that the ironwork on the roof and coping was like an architect's nightmare . 
For London is like prison for children , especially if their relations are not rich . 
And nearly everything in London is the wrong sort of shape all straight lines and flat streets , instead of being all sorts of odd shapes , like things are in the country . 
Trees are all different , as you know , and I am sure some tiresome person must have told you that there are no two blades of grass exactly alike . 
But in streets , where the blades of grass don't grow , everything is like everything else . 
This is why so many children who live in towns are so extremely naughty . 
And so do you now . 
Children in the country are naughty sometimes , too , but that is for quite different reasons . 
The best part of it all was that there were no rules about not going to places and not doing things . 
The White House was on the edge of a hill , with a wood behind it and the chalk quarry on one side and the gravel pit on the other . 
Grown up people find it very difficult to believe really wonderful things , unless they have what they call proof . 
But children will believe almost anything , and grown ups know this . 
It was at the gravel pits . 
Father had to go away suddenly on business , and mother had gone away to stay with Granny , who was not very well . 
It was Cyril who said 'I say , let's take our Margate spades and go and dig in the gravel pits . 
We can pretend it's seaside . 
'Father said it was once , Anthea said 'he says there are shells there thousands of years old . 
Each of the children carried its own spade , and took it in turns to carry the Lamb . 
He was the baby , and they called him that because 'Baa' was the first thing he ever said . 
They called Anthea 'Panther' , which seems silly when you read it , but when you say it it sounds a little like her name . 
The gravel pit is very large and wide , with grass growing round the edges at the top , and dry stringy wildflowers , purple and yellow . 
It is like a giant's wash hand basin . 
The children dug and they dug and they dug , and their hands got sandy and hot and red , and their faces got damp and shiny . 
'Suppose the bottom of the hole gave way suddenly , she said , 'and you tumbled out among the little Australians , all the sand would get in their eyes . 
Cyril and Anthea knew that Australia was not quite so near as all that , but they agreed to stop using the spades and go on with their hands . 
This was quite easy , because the sand at the bottom of the hole was very soft and fine and dry , like sea sand . 
And there were little shells in it . 
'Fancy it having been wet sea here once , all sloppy and shiny , said Jane , 'with fishes and conger eels and coral and mermaids . 
'And masts of ships and wrecked Spanish treasure . 
I wish we could find a gold doubloon , or something , Cyril said . 
'How did the sea get carried away ? Robert asked . 
'Not in a pail , silly , said his brother . 
The others agreed , but Anthea went on digging . 
She always liked to finish a thing when she had once begun it . 
She felt it would be a disgrace to leave that hole without getting through to Australia . 
'It's a rat , I shouldn't wonder , said Robert . 
'Father says they infest old places and this must be pretty old if the sea was here thousands of years ago . 
'Perhaps it is a snake , said Jane , shuddering . 
'Let's look , said Cyril , jumping into the hole . 
'I'm not afraid of snakes . 
If it is a snake I'll tame it , and it will follow me everywhere , and I'll let it sleep round my neck at night . 
'No , you won't , said Robert firmly . 
'But you may if it's a rat . 
'Oh , don't be silly ! said Anthea 'it's not a rat , it's MUCH bigger . 
And it's not a snake . 
It's got feet I saw them and fur ! No not the spade . 
You'll hurt it ! Dig with your hands . 
'And let IT hurt ME instead ! That's so likely , isn't it ? said Cyril , seizing a spade . 
'Oh , don't ! said Anthea . 
I it sounds silly , but it said something . 
It really and truly did . 
'What ? 'It said , You let me alone . 
They dug carefully , and presently everyone could see that there really was something moving in the bottom of the Australian hole . 
Then Anthea cried out , 'I'M not afraid . 
Let me dig , and fell on her knees and began to scratch like a dog does when he has suddenly remembered where it was that he buried his bone . 
'Oh , I felt fur , she cried , half laughing and half crying . 
'I did indeed ! I did ! when suddenly a dry husky voice in the sand made them all jump back , and their hearts jumped nearly as fast as they did . 
'Let me alone , it said . 
And now everyone heard the voice and looked at the others to see if they had too . 
'But we want to see you , said Robert bravely . 
'I wish you'd come out , said Anthea , also taking courage . 
'I believe I must have dropped asleep , it said , stretching itself . 
The children stood round the hole in a ring , looking at the creature they had found . 
It was worth looking at . 
'What on earth is it ? Jane said . 
'She doesn't mean to be silly , Anthea said gently we none of us do , whatever you may think ! Don't be frightened we don't want to hurt you , you know . 
'Hurt ME ! it said . 
'ME frightened ? Upon my word ! Why , you talk as if I were nobody in particular . 
All its fur stood out like a cat's when it is going to fight . 
'Well , said Anthea , still kindly , 'perhaps if we knew who you are in particular we could think of something to say that wouldn't make you cross . 
Everything we've said so far seems to have . 
Who are you ? And don't get angry ! Because really we don't know . 
'You don't know ? it said . 
'So it is to everyone , said the creature sharply . 
'Well , in plain English , then , a SAND FAIRY . 
Don't you know a Sand fairy when you see one ? It looked so grieved and hurt that Jane hastened to say , 'Of course I see you are , now . 
It's quite plain now one comes to look at you . 
'You came to look at me , several sentences ago , it said crossly , beginning to curl up again in the sand . 
'Oh don't go away again ! Do talk some more , Robert cried . 
'I didn't know you were a Sand fairy , but I knew directly I saw you that you were much the wonderfullest thing I'd ever seen . 
The Sand fairy seemed a shade less disagreeable after this . 
'It isn't talking I mind , it said , 'as long as you're reasonably civil . 
But I'm not going to make polite conversation for you . 
If you talk nicely to me , perhaps I'll answer you , and perhaps I won't . 
Of course no one could think of anything to say , but at last Robert thought of 'How long have you lived here ? and he said it at once . 
'Oh , ages several thousand years , replied the Psammead . 
'Tell us all about it . 
'You aren't ! Jane said . 
'Oh , tell us everything you can about yourself ! We don't know anything about you , and you are so nice . 
The Sand fairy smoothed his long rat like whiskers and smiled between them . 
'Do please tell ! said the children all together . 
It is wonderful how quickly you get used to things , even the most astonishing . 
It drew its eyes in and said 'How very sunny it is quite like old times . 
Where do you get your Megatheriums from now ? 'What ? said the children all at once . 
It is very difficult always to remember that 'what' is not polite , especially in moments of surprise or agitation . 
'Are Pterodactyls plentiful now ? the Sand fairy went on . 
The children were unable to reply . 
'What do you have for breakfast ? the Fairy said impatiently , 'and who gives it you ? 'Eggs and bacon , and bread and milk , and porridge and things . 
It was as big as an elephant , you see , so there was a good deal of meat on it . 
And if they wanted fish , the Ichthyosaurus was asked for he was twenty to forty feet long , so there was plenty of him . 
And for poultry there was the Plesiosaurus there were nice pickings on that too . 
Then the other children could wish for other things . 
But when people had dinner parties it was nearly always Megatheriums and Ichthyosaurus , because his fins were a great delicacy and his tail made soup . 
'There must have been heaps and heaps of cold meat left over , said Anthea , who meant to be a good housekeeper some day . 
'Oh no , said the Psammead , 'that would never have done . 
Why , of course at sunset what was left over turned into stone . 
You find the stone bones of the Megatherium and things all over the place even now , they tell me . 
'Who tell you ? asked Cyril but the Sand fairy frowned and began to dig very fast with its furry hands . 
'Oh , don't go ! they all cried 'tell us more about it when it was Megatheriums for breakfast ! Was the world like this then ? It stopped digging . 
We sand fairies used to live on the seashore , and the children used to come with their little flint spades and flint pails and make castles for us to live in . 
That's thousands of years ago , but I hear that children still build castles on the sand . 
It's difficult to break yourself of a habit . 
'But why did you stop living in the castles ? asked Robert . 
'It's a sad story , said the Psammead gloomily . 
'And did YOU get wet ? Robert inquired . 
'Only once , it said 'the end of the twelfth hair of my top left whisker I feel the place still in damp weather . 
It was only once , but it was quite enough for me . 
I went away as soon as the sun had dried my poor dear whisker . 
I scurried away to the back of the beach , and dug myself a house deep in warm dry sand , and there I've been ever since . 
And the sea changed its lodgings afterwards . 
And now I'm not going to tell you another thing . 
'Just one more , please , said the children . 
'Can you give wishes now ? 'Of course , said it 'didn't I give you yours a few minutes ago ? You said , I wish you'd come out , and I did . 
'Oh , please , mayn't we have another ? 'Yes , but be quick about it . 
These children had often talked this matter over , but , now the chance had suddenly come to them , they could not make up their minds . 
'Quick , said the Sand fairy crossly . 
No one could think of anything , only Anthea did manage to remember a private wish of her own and jane's which they had never told the boys . 
She knew the boys would not care about it but still it was better than nothing . 
'I wish we were all as beautiful as the day , she said in a great hurry . 
The children looked at each other , but each could see that the others were not any better looking than usual . 
The Psammead pushed out its long eyes , and seemed to be holding its breath and swelling itself out till it was twice as fat and furry as before . 
Suddenly it let its breath go in a long sigh . 
'I'm really afraid I can't manage it , it said apologetically 'I must be out of practice . 
The children were horribly disappointed . 
'Oh , DO try again ! they said . 
'Well , said the Sand fairy , 'the fact is , I was keeping back a little strength to give the rest of you your wishes with . 
If you'll be contented with one wish a day amongst the lot of you I daresay I can screw myself up to it . 
Do you agree to that ? 'Yes , oh yes ! said Jane and Anthea . 
They did not believe the Sand fairy could do it . 
You can always make girls believe things much easier than you can boys . 
It stretched out its eyes farther than ever , and swelled and swelled and swelled . 
'I do hope it won't hurt itself , said Anthea . 
'Or crack its skin , Robert said anxiously . 
'That's all right , it said , panting heavily . 
'It'll come easier to morrow . 
'Did it hurt much ? asked Anthea . 
'Only my poor whisker , thank you , said he , 'but you're a kind and thoughtful child . 
It scratched suddenly and fiercely with its hands and feet , and disappeared in the sand . 
Then the children looked at each other , and each child suddenly found itself alone with three perfect strangers , all radiantly beautiful . 
They stood for some moments in perfect silence . 
Each thought that its brothers and sisters had wandered off , and that these strange children had stolen up unnoticed while it was watching the swelling form of the Sand fairy . 
I say , am I as handsome as you are ? 'If you're Cyril , I liked you much better as you were before , said Anthea decidedly . 
'You look like the picture of the young chorister , with your golden hair you'll die young , I shouldn't wonder . 
And if that's Robert , he's like an Italian organ grinder . 
'You two girls are like Christmas cards , then that's all silly Christmas cards , said Robert angrily . 
'And jane's hair is simply carrots . 
It was indeed of that Venetian tint so much admired by artists . 
'Well , it's no use finding fault with each other , said Anthea 'let's get the Lamb and lug it home to dinner . 
The servants will admire us most awfully , you'll see . 
'I suppose he's too young to have wishes naturally , said Jane . 
'We shall have to mention him specially next time . 
Anthea ran forward and held out her arms . 
'Come to own Panther , ducky , she said . 
The Baby looked at her disapprovingly , and put a sandy pink thumb in his mouth , Anthea was his favourite sister . 
'Come then , she said . 
'G'way long ! said the Baby . 
'Come to own Pussy , said Jane . 
'Wants my Panty , said the Lamb dismally , and his lip trembled . 
'Here , come on , Veteran , said Robert , 'come and have a yidey on Yobby's back . 
'Yah , narky narky boy , howled the Baby , giving way altogether . 
Then the children knew the worst . 
'This is most truly awful , said Cyril when he had tried to lift up the Lamb , and the Lamb had scratched like a cat and bellowed like a bull . 
'We've got to MAKE FRIENDS with him ! I can't carry him home screaming like that . 
Fancy having to make friends with our own baby ! it's too silly . 
That , however , was exactly what they had to do . 
'Here ! Do take Baby ! Martha snatched the Baby from her arms . 
'Thanks be , HE'S safe back , she said . 
'Where are the others , and whoever to goodness gracious are all of you ? 'We're US , of course , said Robert . 
'And who's US , when you're at home ? asked Martha scornfully . 
'I tell you it's US , only we're beautiful as the day , said Cyril . 
'I'm Cyril , and these are the others , and we're jolly hungry . 
Let us in , and don't be a silly idiot . 
Martha merely dratted Cyril's impudence and tried to shut the door in his face . 
'I know we LOOK different , but I'm Anthea , and we're so tired , and it's long past dinner time . 
Cyril rang the bell violently . 
Presently cook put her head out of a bedroom window and said 'If you don't take yourselves off , and that precious sharp , I'll go and fetch the police . 
And she slammed down the window . 
'It's no good , said Anthea . 
'We shall be our proper selves after sunset , I suppose , said Jane . 
'I don't know , Cyril said sadly 'it mayn't be like that now things have changed a good deal since Megatherium times . 
She began to cry , so did Jane . 
Even the boys turned pale . 
No one had the heart to say anything . 
It was a horrible afternoon . 
There was no house near where the children could beg a crust of bread or even a glass of water . 
They were afraid to go to the village , because they had seen Martha go down there with a basket , and there was a local constable . 
True , they were all as beautiful as the day , but that is a poor comfort when you are as hungry as a hunter and as thirsty as a sponge . 
Three times they tried in vain to get the servants in the White House to let them in and listen to their tale . 
And then Robert went alone , hoping to be able to climb in at one of the back windows and so open the door to the others . 
Another silence , longer and more miserable , was broken by Cyril's suddenly saying , 'I don't want to frighten you girls , but I believe it's beginning with me already . 
I'm turning to stone , I know I am , and so will you in a minute . 
'Giving us such a fright for nothing ! said Anthea . 
The third and miserablest silence of all was broken by Jane . 
They were too wretched even to make good resolutions . 
At last hunger and fright and crossness and tiredness four very nasty things all joined together to bring one nice thing , and that was sleep . 
The children lay asleep in a row , with their beautiful eyes shut and their beautiful mouths open . 
The sun had set , and the twilight was coming on . 
Anthea pinched herself very hard , to make sure , and when she found she could still feel pinching she decided that she was not stone , and then she pinched the others . 
They , also , were soft . 
'Wake up , she said , almost in tears of joy 'it's all right , we're not stone . 
And oh , Cyril , how nice and ugly you do look , with your old freckles and your brown hair and your little eyes . 
And so do you all ! she added , so that they might not feel jealous . 
When they got home they were very much scolded by Martha , who told them about the strange children . 
'A good looking lot , I must say , but that impudent . 
'I know , said Robert , who knew by experience how hopeless it would be to try to explain things to Martha . 
'And where on earth have you been all this time , you naughty little things , you ? 'In the lane . 
'Why didn't you come home hours ago ? 'We couldn't because of THEM , said Anthea . 
'Who ? 'The children who were as beautiful as the day . 
They kept us there till after sunset . 
We couldn't come back till they'd gone . 
You don't know how we hated them ! Oh , do , do give us some supper we are so hungry . 
'Hungry ! I should think so , said Martha angrily 'out all day like this . 
CHAPTER GOLDEN GUINEAS Anthea woke in the morning from a very real sort of dream , in which she was walking in the Zoological Gardens on a pouring wet day without any umbrella . 
The animals seemed desperately unhappy because of the rain , and were all growling gloomily . 
When she awoke , both the growling and the rain went on just the same . 
The growling was the heavy regular breathing of her sister Jane , who had a slight cold and was still asleep . 
'I had such a funny dream , Anthea began . 
'So did I , said Jane , wakening suddenly and without warning . 
'I was just going to tell you and we had the first wish directly it said so . 
And I dreamed you girls were donkeys enough to ask for us all to be beautiful as the day , and we jolly well were , and it was perfectly beastly . 
'Come on , Robert , it said , 'you'll be late for breakfast again unless you mean to shirk your bath like you did on Tuesday . 
'I say , come here a sec , Robert replied . 
'I didn't shirk it I had it after brekker in father's dressing room , because ours was emptied away . 
Cyril appeared in the doorway , partially clothed . 
'Look here , said Anthea , 'we've all had such an odd dream . 
We've all dreamed we found a Sand fairy . 
Her voice died away before Cyril's contemptuous glance . 
'Dream ? he said , 'you little sillies , it's TRUE . 
I tell you it all happened . 
That's why I'm so keen on being down early . 
We'll go up there directly after brekker , and have another wish . 
Only we'll make up our minds , solid , before we go , what it is we do want , and no one must ask for anything unless the others agree first . 
No more peerless beauties for this child , thank you . 
Not if I know it ! The other three dressed , with their mouths open . 
If all that dream about the Sand fairy was real , this real dressing seemed very like a dream , the girls thought . 
Jane felt that Cyril was right , but Anthea was not sure , till after they had seen Martha and heard her full and plain reminders about their naughty conduct the day before . 
'Talking of babies , said Cyril , 'where's the Lamb ? 'Martha's going to take him to Rochester to see her cousins . 
She's dressing him now , said Jane , 'in his very best coat and hat . 
Bread and butter , please . 
'She seems to like taking him too , said Robert in a tone of wonder . 
'Servants do like taking babies to see their relations , Cyril said . 
'I've noticed it before especially in their best things . 
'I expect that's what Martha'll say to her cousin . 
She'll enjoy herself most frightfully 'She won't enjoy herself most frightfully carrying our infant duke to Rochester , said Robert , 'not if she's anything like me she won't . 
'Fancy walking to Rochester with the Lamb on your back ! Oh , crikey ! said Cyril in full agreement . 
'She's going by carrier , said Jane . 
'Let's see them off , then we shall have done a polite and kindly act , and we shall be quite sure we've got rid of them for the day . 
Martha wore her Sunday dress of two shades of purple , so tight in the chest that it made her stoop , and her blue hat with the pink cornflowers and white ribbon . 
She had a yellow lace collar with a green bow . 
And the Lamb had indeed his very best cream coloured silk coat and hat . 
It was a smart party that the carrier's cart picked up at the Cross Roads . 
When its white tilt and red wheels had slowly vanished in a swirl of chalk dust 'And now for the Sammyadd ! said Cyril , and off they went . 
As they went they decided on the wish they would ask for . 
They had made a ring of stones round the place where the Sand fairy had disappeared , so they easily found the spot . 
The sun was burning and bright , and the sky was deep blue without a cloud . 
The sand was very hot to touch . 
'Oh suppose it was only a dream , after all , Robert said as the boys uncovered their spades from the sand heap where they had buried them and began to dig . 
'Suppose you were a sensible chap , said Cyril 'one's quite as likely as the other ! 'Suppose you kept a civil tongue in your head , Robert snapped . 
'Suppose we girls take a turn , said Jane , laughing . 
'You boys seem to be getting very warm . 
'Suppose you don't come shoving your silly oar in , said Robert , who was now warm indeed . 
'We won't , said Anthea quickly . 
'Robert dear , don't be so grumpy we won't say a word , you shall be the one to speak to the Fairy and tell him what we've decided to wish for . 
You'll say it much better than we shall . 
'Suppose you drop being a little humbug , said Robert , but not crossly . 
Everyone drew a deep breath of satisfaction , for now of course it couldn't have been a dream . 
The Psammead sat up and shook the sand out of its fur . 
'How's your left whisker this morning ? said Anthea politely . 
'Nothing to boast of , said it , 'it had rather a restless night . 
But thank you for asking . 
'Humph ! said the Sand fairy . 
I do have very odd dreams sometimes . 
'Do you ? 'Jane hurried to say , so as to get away from the subject of disagreeableness . 
'I wish , she added politely , 'you'd tell us about your dreams they must be awfully interesting . 
'Is that the day's wish ? said the Sand fairy , yawning . 
Cyril muttered something about 'just like a girl , and the rest stood silent . 
If they said 'Yes , then good bye to the other wishes they had decided to ask for . 
'We don't want the servants to notice the gifts you give us . 
'Are kind enough to give us , said Anthea in a whisper . 
'Are kind enough to give us , I mean , said Robert . 
The Fairy swelled himself out a bit , let his breath go , and said 'I've done THAT for you it was quite easy . 
People don't notice things much , anyway . 
What's the next wish ? 'We want , said Robert slowly , 'to be rich beyond the dreams of something or other . 
'So it is , said the Fairy unexpectedly . 
'But it won't do you much good , that's one comfort , it muttered to itself . 
'Come I can't go beyond dreams , you know ! How much do you want , and will you have it in gold or notes ? 'Gold , please and millions of it . 
'This gravel pit full be enough ? said the Fairy in an off hand manner . 
'Oh YES ! 'Then get out before I begin , or you'll be buried alive in it . 
Only Anthea had presence of mind enough to shout a timid 'Good morning , I hope your whisker will be better to morrow , as she ran . 
It was something like trying to look at the sun at high noon on Midsummer Day . 
And all the gleaming heap was minted gold . 
The children stood with their mouths open , and no one said a word . 
At last Robert stopped and picked up one of the loose coins from the edge of the heap by the cart road , and looked at it . 
He looked on both sides . 
Then he said in a low voice , quite different to his own , 'It's not sovereigns . 
'It's gold , anyway , said Cyril . 
And now they all began to talk at once . 
They all picked up the golden treasure by handfuls , and let it run through their fingers like water , and the chink it made as it fell was wonderful music . 
At first they quite forgot to think of spending the money , it was so nice to play with . 
But Jane was not half buried before she cried out , 'Oh , stop , it's too heavy ! It hurts ! Robert said 'Bosh ! and went on . 
'Let me out , I tell you , cried Jane , and was taken out , very white , and trembling a little . 
'You've no idea what it's like , said she 'it's like stones on you or like chains . 
'Look here , Cyril said , 'if this is to do us any good , it's no good our staying gasping at it like this . 
Let's fill our pockets and go and buy things . 
Don't you forget , it won't last after sunset . 
I wish we'd asked the Sammyadd why things don't turn to stone . 
I'll tell you what , there's a pony and cart in the village . 
'Do you want to buy that ? asked Jane . 
'No , silly we'll HIRE it . 
And then we'll go to Rochester and buy heaps and heaps of things . 
Look here , let's each take as much as we can carry . 
They've got a man's head on one side and a thing like the ace of spades on the other . 
Fill your pockets with it , I tell you , and come along . 
You can jaw as we go if you must jaw . 
Cyril sat down and began to fill his pockets . 
'You made fun of me for getting father to have nine pockets in my Norfolks , said he , 'but now you see ! They did . 
For when Cyril had filled his nine pockets and his handkerchief and the space between himself and his shirt front with the gold coins , he had to stand up . 
But he staggered , and had to sit down again in a hurry 'Throw out some of the cargo , said Robert . 
'You'll sink the ship , old chap . 
That comes of nine pockets . 
Then they set off to walk to the village . 
It was Jane who said , 'I don't see how we're to spend it all . 
There must be thousands of pounds among the lot of us . 
I'm going to leave some of mine behind this stump in the hedge . 
And directly we get to the village we'll buy some biscuits I know it's long past dinner time . 
She took out a handful or two of gold and hid it in the hollows of an old hornbeam . 
'How round and yellow they are , she said . 
'Don't you wish they were gingerbread nuts and we were going to eat them ? 'Well , they're not , and we're not , said Cyril . 
'Come on ! But they came on heavily and wearily . 
Before they reached the village , more than one stump in the hedge concealed its little hoard of hidden treasure . 
Yet they reached the village with about twelve hundred guineas in their pockets . 
But in spite of this inside wealth they looked quite ordinary outside , and no one would have thought they could have more than a half crown each at the outside . 
The haze of heat , the blue of the wood smoke , made a sort of dim misty cloud over the red roofs of the village . 
The four sat down heavily on the first bench they came to It happened to be outside the Blue Boar Inn . 
And Cyril is nearer to being a man than us , because he is the eldest . 
The others sat in the sun and waited . 
'Oh , hats , how hot it is ! said Robert . 
So they took their tongues in again , just as Cyril came back with the ginger beer . 
'I had to pay for it out of my own two and sevenpence , though , that I was going to buy rabbits with , he said . 
'They wouldn't change the gold . 
And when I pulled out a handful the man just laughed and said it was card counters . 
And I got some sponge cakes too , out of a glass jar on the bar counter . 
And some biscuits with caraways in . 
The sponge cakes were both soft and dry and the biscuits were dry too , and yet soft , which biscuits ought not to be . 
But the ginger beer made up for everything . 
'It's my turn now to try to buy something with the money , Anthea said , 'I'm next eldest . 
She came out , as she herself said , 'pleased but not proud' . 
I think I managed very well . 
'You think yourself jolly clever , I daresay , said Cyril moodily . 
'How did you do it ? 'I wasn't jolly clever enough to go taking handfuls of money out of my pocket , to make it seem cheap , anyway , she retorted . 
'I just found a young man doing something to a horse's leg with a sponge and a pail . 
And I held out one sovereign , and I said , Do you know what this is ? He said , No , and he'd call his father . 
And his name is S. Crispin . 
And he said , Right oh . 
The old man put them down by the bridge at their request . 
'If you were going to buy a carriage and horses , where would you go ? asked Cyril , as if he were only asking for the sake of something to say . 
'Billy Peasemarsh , at the Saracen's Head , said the old man promptly . 
'Though all forbid I should recommend any man where it's a question of horses , no more than I'd take anybody else's recommending if I was a buying one . 
But if your pa's thinking of a turnout of any sort , there ain't a straighter man in Rochester , nor a civiller spoken , than Billy , though I says it . 
'Thank you , said Cyril . 
And now the children began to see one of the laws of nature turn upside down and stand on its head like an acrobat . 
Any grown up persons would tell you that money is hard to get and easy to spend . 
But the fairy money had been easy to get , and spending it was not only hard , it was almost impossible . 
The tradespeople of Rochester seemed to shrink , to a trades person , from the glittering fairy gold . 
To begin with , Anthea , who had had the misfortune to sit on her hat earlier in the day , wished to buy another . 
She chose a very beautiful one , trimmed with pink roses and the blue breasts of peacocks . 
It was marked in the window , 'Paris Model , three guineas' . 
'I'm glad , she said , 'because , if it says guineas , it means guineas , and not sovereigns , which we haven't got . 
'It's good money , said Anthea , 'and it's my own . 
'I daresay , said the lady , 'but it's not the kind of money that's fashionable now , and we don't care about taking it . 
'I believe they think we've stolen it , said Anthea , rejoining the others in the street 'if we had gloves they wouldn't think we were so dishonest . 
It's my hands being so dirty fills their minds with doubts . 
Also they got very hungry , but they found no one would give them anything to eat for their guineas . 
Then they stood at bay , with the twelve buns in their hands and their mouths very full indeed . 
The shocked pastrycook bounded round the corner . 
'Here , said Cyril , speaking as distinctly as he could , and holding out the guinea he got ready before entering the shop , 'pay yourself out of that . 
Mr Beale snatched the coin , bit it , and put it in his pocket . 
'Off you go , he said , brief and stern like the man in the song . 
'But the change ? said Anthea , who had a saving mind . 
'Change ! said the man . 
The boys would have given up the idea , but Jane was always a hopeful child , and Anthea generally an obstinate one , and their earnestness prevailed . 
The whole party , by this time indescribably dirty , therefore betook itself to the Saracen's Head . 
The yard method of attack having been successful at The Chequers was tried again here . 
Mr Peasemarsh was in the yard , and Robert opened the business in these terms 'They tell me you have a lot of horses and carriages to sell . 
'They tell you true , young man , said Mr Peasemarsh . 
He was a long lean man , with very blue eyes and a tight mouth and narrow lips . 
'We should like to buy some , please , said Robert politely . 
'Will you show us a few , please ? To choose from . 
'Who are you a kiddin of ? inquired Mr Billy Peasemarsh . 
'Upon my sacred ! said Mr Peasemarsh . 
It would be very kind of you . 
Mr Peasemarsh put his hands in his pockets and laughed , and they did not like the way he did it . 
Then he shouted 'Willum ! A stooping ostler appeared in a stable door . 
'Here , Willum , come and look at this 'ere young dook ! Wants to buy the whole stud , lock , stock , and bar'l . 
And ain't got tuppence in his pocket to bless hisself with , I'll go bail ! Willum's eyes followed his master's pointing thumb with contemptuous interest . 
'Do 'e , for sure ? he said . 
But Robert spoke , though both the girls were now pulling at his jacket and begging him to 'come along' . 
He spoke , and he was very angry he said 'I'm not a young duke , and I never pretended to be . 
He snatched one up in his finger and thumb . 
He bit it , and Jane expected him to say , 'The best horse in my stables is at your service . 
But the others knew better . 
Still it was a blow , even to the most desponding , when he said shortly 'Willum , shut the yard doors , and Willum grinned and went to shut them . 
'Good afternoon , said Robert hastily 'we shan't buy any of your horses now , whatever you say , and I hope it'll be a lesson to you . 
He had seen a little side gate open , and was moving towards it as he spoke . 
But Billy Peasemarsh put himself in the way . 
'Not so fast , you young off scouring ! he said . 
'Willum , fetch the pleece . 
The children stood huddled together like frightened sheep , and Mr Peasemarsh spoke to them till the pleece arrived . 
Among other things he said 'Nice lot you are , aren't you , coming tempting honest men with your guineas ! 'They ARE our guineas , said Cyril boldly . 
'Oh , of course we don't know all about that , no more we don't oh no course not ! And dragging little gells into it , too . 
'Ere I'll let the gells go if you'll come along to the pleece quiet . 
'We won't be let go , said Jane heroically 'not without the boys . 
It's our money just as much as theirs , you wicked old man . 
'Where'd you get it , then ? said the man , softening slightly , which was not at all what the boys expected when Jane began to call names . 
Jane cast a silent glance of agony at the others . 
'Lost your tongue , eh ? Got it fast enough when it's for calling names with . 
Come , speak up ! Where'd you get it ? 'Out of the gravel pit , said truthful Jane . 
'Next article , said the man . 
'I tell you we did , Jane said . 
'There's a fairy there all over brown fur with ears like a bat's and eyes like a snail's , and he gives you a wish a day , and they all come true . 
'Touched in the head , eh ? said the man in a low voice , 'all the more shame to you boys dragging the poor afflicted child into your sinful burglaries . 
'She's not mad it's true , said Anthea 'there is a fairy . 
'I daresay you're right , said the policeman at last . 
'Anyway , I'll take 'em up on a charge of unlawful possession , pending inquiries . 
And the magistrate will deal with the case . 
Send the afflicted ones to a home , as likely as not , and the boys to a reformatory . 
Now then , come along , youngsters ! No use making a fuss . 
You bring the gells along , Mr Peasemarsh , sir , and I'll shepherd the boys . 
Speechless with rage and horror , the four children were driven along the streets of Rochester . 
She refused to believe a word of the policeman's story , or of Mr Peasemarsh's either , even when they made Robert turn out his pockets in an archway and show the guineas . 
'I don't see nothing , she said . 
'You've gone out of your senses , you two ! There ain't any gold there only the poor child's hands , all over crock and dirt , and like the very chimbley . 
So of course Martha couldn't see the gold , and so was only speaking the truth , and that was quite right , of course , but not extra noble . 
It was getting dusk when they reached the police station . 
The policeman told his tale to an inspector , who sat in a large bare room with a thing like a clumsy nursery fender at one end to put prisoners in . 
Robert wondered whether it was a cell or a dock . 
'Produce the coins , officer , said the inspector . 
'Turn out your pockets , said the constable . 
So were the pockets of the others . 
For of course at sunset all the fairy gold had vanished away . 
'Turn out your pockets , and stop that noise , said the inspector . 
Cyril turned out his pockets , every one of the nine which enriched his Norfolk suit . 
And every pocket was empty . 
'Well ! said the inspector . 
'It's very remarkable , said the inspector , frowning . 
'If you've quite done a browbeating of the innocent children , said Martha , 'I'll hire a private carriage and we'll drive home to their papa's mansion . 
You'll hear about this again , young man ! I told you they hadn't got any gold , when you were pretending to see it in their poor helpless hands . 
It's early in the day for a constable on duty not to be able to trust his own eyes . 
As to the other one , the less said the better he keeps the Saracen's Head , and he knows best what his liquor's like . 
'Take them away , for goodness' sake , said the inspector crossly . 
Martha was as good as her word . 
They found him very friendly . 
The guinea had NOT disappeared , and he had bored a hole in it and hung it on his watch chain . 
But afterwards this preyed on Anthea's mind , and at last she secretly sent twelve stamps by post to 'Mr Beale , Baker , Rochester' . 
Inside she wrote , 'To pay for the buns . 
For now they had had two wishes , Beauty and Wealth , and neither had exactly made them happy . 
The Baby was particularly lively that morning . 
He put his fat fist in his bread and milk , and demanded 'nam' , which was only allowed for tea . 
He sang , he put his feet on the table he clamoured to 'go walky' . 
The conversation was something like this 'Look here about that Sand fairy Look out ! he'll have the milk over . 
Milk removed to a safe distance . 
'Yes about that Fairy No , Lamb dear , give Panther the narky poon . 
Everyone was almost as much upset as the goldfish the Lamb only remaining calm . 
It was white and soft and frilly , and trimmed with lace , and very , very pretty , quite as pretty as a frock , if not more so . 
Only it was NOT a frock , and Martha's word was law . 
She wouldn't let Jane wear her best frock , and she refused to listen for a moment to Robert's suggestion that Jane should wear her best petticoat and call it a dress . 
'It's not respectable , she said . 
And when people say that , it's no use anyone's saying anything . 
You will find this out for yourselves some day . 
So there was nothing for it but for Jane to mend her frock . 
The hole had been torn the day before when she happened to tumble down in the High Street of Rochester , just where a water cart had passed on its silvery way . 
She had grazed her knee , and her stocking was much more than grazed , and her dress was cut by the same stone which had attended to the knee and the stocking . 
The Lamb was still in the hands of Martha having its clothes changed , so conversation was possible . 
'I don't care who asks or who doesn't , said Robert , but Anthea and I think the Sammyadd is a spiteful brute . 
If it can give us our wishes I suppose it can give itself its own , and I feel almost sure it wishes every time that our wishes shan't do us any good . 
Let's let the tiresome beast alone , and just go and have a jolly good game of forts , on our own , in the chalk pit . 
Cyril and Jane were more hopeful they generally were . 
'I don't think the Sammyadd does it on purpose , Cyril said 'and , after all , it WAS silly to wish for boundless wealth . 
Fifty pounds in two shilling pieces would have been much more sensible . 
And wishing to be beautiful as the day was simply donkeyish . 
I don't want to be disagreeable , but it was . 
We must try to find a really useful wish , and wish it . 
Jane dropped her work and said 'I think so too , it's too silly to have a chance like this and not use it . 
Do let's think hard , and wish something nice , so that we can have a real jolly day what there is left of it . 
Jane darned away again like mad , for time was indeed getting on , and everyone began to talk at once . 
Lending ears was common in Roman times , as we learn from Shakespeare but I fear I am getting too instructive . 
In real life I could very soon show you or you me , which is much more likely . 
, it had been decided that fifty pounds in two shilling pieces was the right wish to have . 
And the lucky children , who could have anything in the wide world by just wishing for it , hurriedly started for the gravel pit to express their wishes to the Psammead . 
Martha caught them at the gate , and insisted on their taking the Baby with them . 
'I know we did , said Robert in gloom , 'but I wish the Lamb wasn't quite so young and small . 
It would be much better fun taking him out . 
'He'll mend of his youngness with time , said Martha 'and as for his smallness , I don't think you'd fancy carrying of him any more , however big he was . 
She was a rapid performer on this instrument . 
And they would make a list of the things they really wanted before they started . 
Being real live children , it only made them stop and look at each other with rather blank and silly expressions . 
And so it happened that they had not had time to mark the spot where the Psammead was , with a ring of stones , as before . 
And it was this thought that put such silly expressions on their faces . 
'Never mind , said the hopeful Jane , 'we'll soon find him . 
But this , though easily said , was hard in the doing . 
They looked and they looked , and though they found their seaside spades , nowhere could they find the Sand fairy . 
The Lamb , as Martha had said , was feeling the benefit of the country air , and he was as frisky as a sandhopper . 
The elder ones longed to go on talking about the new wishes they would have when they found the Psammead again . 
But the Lamb wished to enjoy himself . 
He watched his opportunity and threw a handful of sand into Anthea's face , and then suddenly burrowed his own head in the sand and waved his fat legs in the air . 
Then of course the sand got into his eyes , as it had into Anthea's , and he howled . 
The thoughtful Robert had brought one solid brown bottle of ginger beer with him , relying on a thirst that had never yet failed him . 
This had to be uncorked hurriedly it was the only wet thing within reach , and it was necessary to wash the sand out of the Lamb's eyes somehow . 
Of course the ginger hurt horribly , and he howled more than ever . 
And , amid his anguish of kicking , the bottle was upset and the beautiful ginger beer frothed out into the sand and was lost for ever . 
He's a little nuisance , that's what he is . 
I only wish everybody DID want him with all their hearts we might get some peace in our lives . 
It is quite easy if you love the Baby as much as you ought to . 
Then there was a little silence . 
Robert was not proud of himself for having been so cross , and the others were not proud of him either . 
The silence was broken by a sigh a breath suddenly let out . 
The children's heads turned as if there had been a string tied to each nose , and someone had pulled all the strings at once . 
And everyone saw the Sand fairy sitting quite close to them , with the expression which it used as a smile on its hairy face . 
'Good morning , it said 'I did that quite easily ! Everyone wants him now . 
'It doesn't matter , said Robert sulkily , because he knew he had been behaving rather like a pig . 
'No matter who wants him there's no one here to anyhow . 
'Ingratitude , said the Psammead , 'is a dreadful vice . 
'We're not ungrateful , 'Jane made haste to say , 'but we didn't REALLY want that wish . 
Robert only just said it . 
Can't you take it back and give us a new one ? 'No I can't , the Sand fairy said shortly 'chopping and changing it's not business . 
You ought to be careful what you do wish . 
And of course then he was . 
'How awful ! said the children all together . 
'Only till sunset , of course , the Psammead said 'still it was quite enough for his father and mother . 
And he caught it when he woke up I can tell you . 
He didn't turn to stone I forget why but there must have been some reason . 
They didn't know being dead is only being asleep , and you're bound to wake up somewhere or other , either where you go to sleep or in some better place . 
You may be sure he caught it , giving them such a turn . 
Why , he wasn't allowed to taste Megatherium for a month after that . 
Nothing but oysters and periwinkles , and common things like that . 
All the children were quite crushed by this terrible tale . 
They looked at the Psammead in horror . 
Suddenly the Lamb perceived that something brown and furry was near him . 
'Poof , poof , poofy , he said , and made a grab . 
'It's not a pussy , Anthea was beginning , when the Sand fairy leaped back . 
'Oh , my left whisker ! it said 'don't let him touch me . 
Its fur stood on end with horror and indeed a good deal of the ginger beer had been spilt on the blue smock of the Lamb . 
The Psammead dug with its hands and feet , and vanished in an instant and a whirl of sand . 
The children marked the spot with a ring of stones . 
'We may as well get along home , said Robert . 
'I'll say I'm sorry but anyway if it's no good it's no harm , and we know where the sandy thing is for to morrow . 
No one reproached Robert at all . 
Cyril picked up the Lamb , who was now quite himself again , and off they went by the safe cart road . 
The cart road from the gravel pits joins the road almost directly . 
At the gate into the road the party stopped to shift the Lamb from Cyril's back to Robert's . 
She looked at the children , and particularly at the Baby , and she smiled at him . 
The children were used to this , for the Lamb was , as all the servants said , a 'very taking child' . 
So they waved their hands politely to the lady and expected her to drive on . 
Instead she made the coachman stop . 
'Oh , but I should bring it up in luxury , you know . 
You must have seen my photograph in the illustrated papers . 
They call me a beauty , you know , but of course that's all nonsense . 
Anyway She opened the carriage door and jumped out . 
She had the wonderfullest red high heeled shoes with silver buckles . 
'Let me hold him a minute , she said . 
And she took the Lamb and held him very awkwardly , as if she was not used to babies . 
'Drive on , I tell you ! cried the lady and the coachman did , for , as he said afterwards , it was as much as his place was worth not to . 
The four children looked at each other , and then with one accord they rushed after the carriage and held on behind . 
Down the dusty road went the smart carriage , and after it , at double quick time , ran the twinkling legs of the Lamb's brothers and sisters . 
The Lamb howled louder and louder , but presently his howls changed by slow degree to hiccupy gurgles , and then all was still and they knew he had gone to sleep . 
The carriage went on , and the eight feet that twinkled through the dust were growing quite stiff and tired before the carriage stopped at the lodge of a grand park . 
The children crouched down behind the carriage , and the lady got out . 
She looked at the Baby as it lay on the carriage seat , and hesitated . 
The coachman and footman sprang from the box and bent over the sleeping Lamb . 
'Fine boy wish he was mine , said the coachman . 
'He wouldn't favour YOU much , said the groom sourly 'too 'andsome . 
The coachman pretended not to hear . 
He said 'Wonder at her now I do really ! Hates kids . 
Got none of her own , and can't abide other folkses' . 
The children , crouching in the white dust under the carriage , exchanged uncomfortable glances . 
'No , you don't , said the footman . 
'I've took to that kid so as never was . 
If anyone's to have him , it's me so there ! 'Stow your gab ! the coachman rejoined . 
'You don't want no kids , and , if you did , one kid's the same as another to you . 
But I'm a married man and a judge of breed . 
I knows a first rate yearling when I sees him . 
I'm a goin' to 'ave him , an' least said soonest mended . 
'I should 'a' thought , said the footman sneeringly , you'd a'most enough . 
Cyril , still crouching in the dust , waddled on bent legs to the side of the carriage farthest from the battlefield . 
'My only hat ! said Cyril , drawing a deep breath as the sound of wheels at last died away . 
'Everyone DOES want him now and no mistake ! That Sammyadd has done us again ! Tricky brute ! For any sake , let's get the kid safe home . 
They all walked on , but the boy followed , and Cyril and Robert couldn't make him go away till they had more than once invited him to smell their fists . 
'So that the bears can come and eat you as soon as it gets dark , said Cyril severely . 
Then she went off crying . 
They were nearly home when the worst thing of all happened . 
Turning a corner suddenly they came upon two vans , a tent , and a company of gipsies encamped by the side of the road . 
The vans were hung all round with wicker chairs and cradles , and flower stands and feather brushes . 
In a moment all the gipsies , men , women , and children , surrounded Anthea and the Baby . 
'Let me have him , said the other woman , whose face was also of the hue of mahogany , and her hair jet black , in greasy curls . 
'I've nineteen of my own , so I have . 
'No , said Anthea bravely , but her heart beat so that it nearly choked her . 
Then one of the men pushed forward . 
'And 'im over and we'll not 'ave the law on yer this time . 
He snatched the Baby from Anthea , who turned scarlet and burst into tears of pure rage . 
The others were standing quite still this was much the most terrible thing that had ever happened to them . 
Even being taken up by the police in Rochester was nothing to this . 
Cyril was quite white , and his hands trembled a little , but he made a sign to the others to shut up . 
He was silent a minute , thinking hard . 
Then he said 'We don't want to keep him if he's yours . 
But you see he's used to us . 
You shall have him if you want him . 
'No , no ! cried Anthea and Cyril glared at her . 
'Of course we want him , said the women , trying to get the Baby out of the man's arms . 
'Oh , he's hurt ! shrieked Anthea and Cyril , in a savage undertone , bade her 'Stow it ! 'You trust to me , he whispered . 
'Look here , he went on , 'he's awfully tiresome with people he doesn't know very well . 
And then when we're gone you can decide which of you is to have him , as you all want him so much . 
The gipsies whispered together , and Cyril took the chance to whisper too . 
He said , 'Sunset ! we'll get away then . 
And then his brothers and sisters were filled with wonder and admiration at his having been so clever as to remember this . 
'Oh , do let him come to us ! said Jane . 
'See we'll sit down here and take care of him for you till he gets used to you . 
'What about dinner ? said Robert suddenly . 
The others looked at him with scorn . 
'Fancy bothering about your beastly dinner when your br I mean when the Baby' Jane whispered hotly . 
His brother and sisters felt themselves very noble , and despised him . 
They did not know his thoughtful secret intention . 
But the gipsies did in a minute . 
'Oh yes ! they said 'and then fetch the police with a pack of lies about it being your baby instead of ours ! D'jever catch a weasel asleep ? they asked . 
'If you're hungry you can pick a bit along of us , said the light haired gipsy woman , not unkindly . 
'Here , Levi , that blessed kid'll howl all his buttons off . 
Give him to the little lady , and let's see if they can't get him used to us a bit . 
So the Lamb was handed back but the gipsies crowded so closely that he could not possibly stop howling . 
Then the man with the red handkerchief said 'Here , Pharaoh , make up the fire and you girls see to the pot . 
Give the kid a chanst . 
So the gipsies , very much against their will , went off to their work , and the children and the Lamb were left sitting on the grass . 
'He'll be all right at sunset , 'Jane whispered . 
'No , they won't , Anthea said . 
They aren't unkind people , or they wouldn't be going to give us any dinner . 
'I won't touch their nasty dinner . 
It would choke me ! The others thought so too then . 
But when the dinner was ready it turned out to be supper , and happened between four and five they were all glad enough to take what they could get . 
It was boiled rabbit , with onions , and some bird rather like a chicken , but stringier about its legs and with a stronger taste . 
The Lamb had bread soaked in hot water and brown sugar sprinkled on the top . 
He liked this very much , and consented to let the two gipsy women feed him with it , as he sat on Anthea's lap . 
All that long hot afternoon Robert and Cyril and Anthea and Jane had to keep the Lamb amused and happy , while the gipsies looked eagerly on . 
The whole gipsy camp was in raptures with him , and his brothers and sisters could not help taking some pleasure in showing off his accomplishments to an audience so interested and enthusiastic . 
But they longed for sunset . 
'We're getting into the habit of longing for sunset , Cyril whispered . 
'How I do wish we could wish something really sensible , that would be of some use , so that we should be quite sorry when sunset came . 
The women and children came crowding round the Lamb , arms were held out , fingers snapped invitingly , friendly faces beaming with admiring smiles but all failed to tempt the loyal Lamb . 
He clung with arms and legs to Jane , who happened to be holding him , and uttered the gloomiest roar of the whole day . 
'It's no good , the woman said , 'hand the little poppet over , miss . 
And still the sun would not set . 
'As if I hadn't never bath'd a babby ! she said . 
'Come give us a hold of him . 
Come to 'Melia , my precious . 
'G'way , ugsie ! replied the Lamb at once . 
Come , miss , 'and 'im over I can't bear it no longer . 
I just must give him a hug . 
'We ain't settled yet whose he's to be , Esther , said one of the men . 
'It won't be you , Esther , with seven of 'em at your tail a'ready . 
'I ain't so sure of that , said Esther's husband . 
'And ain't I nobody , to have a say neither ? said the husband of 'Melia . 
Zillah , the girl , said , 'An' me ? I'm a single girl and no one but 'im to look after I ought to have him . 
'Hold yer tongue ! 'Shut your mouth ! 'Don't you show me no more of your imperence ! Everyone was getting very angry . 
The dark gipsy faces were frowning and anxious looking . 
Suddenly a change swept over them , as if some invisible sponge had wiped away these cross and anxious expressions , and left only a blank . 
The children saw that the sun really HAD set . 
But they were afraid to move . 
The children hardly dared to breathe . 
Suppose the gipsies , when they recovered speech , should be furious to think how silly they had been all day . 
It was an awkward moment . 
Suddenly Anthea , greatly daring , held out the Lamb to the red handkerchief man . 
'Here he is ! she said . 
'I shouldn't like to deprive you , miss , he said hoarsely . 
'Anyone who likes can have my share of him , said the other man . 
'After all , I've got enough of my own , said Esther . 
'He's a nice little chap , though , said Amelia . 
She was the only one who now looked affectionately at the whimpering Lamb . 
Zillah said , 'If I don't think I must have had a touch of the sun . 
'Then shall we take him away ? said Anthea . 
Us gipsies don't steal babies , whatever they may tell you when you're naughty . 
We've enough of our own , mostly . 
But I've lost all mine . 
She leaned towards the Lamb and he , looking in her eyes , unexpectedly put up a grubby soft paw and stroked her face . 
'Poor , poor ! said the Lamb . 
Then she said something in a strange language no one could understand , and suddenly added 'Well , I must be saying so long and glad to have made your acquaintance . 
And she turned and went back to her home the tent by the grassy roadside . 
The children looked after her till she was out of sight . 
Then Robert said , 'How silly of her ! Even sunset didn't put her right . 
I think she's a dear . 
'She's just too frightfully nice for anything , said Jane . 
And they went home very late for tea and unspeakably late for dinner . 
Martha scolded , of course . 
But the Lamb was safe . 
'I say it turned out we wanted the Lamb as much as anyone , said Robert , later . 
'But do you feel different about it now the sun's set ? 'No , said all the others together . 
'Then it's lasted over sunset with us . 
'No , it hasn't , Cyril explained . 
'The wish didn't do anything to US . 
We always wanted him with all our hearts when we were our proper selves , only we were all pigs this morning especially you , Robert . 
Robert bore this much with a strange calm . 
'I certainly THOUGHT I didn't want him this morning , said he . 
'Perhaps I was a pig . 
But everything looked so different when we thought we were going to lose him . 
It was a long day , and it was not till the afternoon that all the children suddenly decided to write letters to their mother . 
At the same time a stream was poured over Anthea's half finished letter . 
So that her letter was something like this DARLING MOTHER , I hope you are quite well , and I hope Granny is better . 
From your loving daughter , ANTHEA . 
Robert's letter had not even been begun . 
He had been drawing a ship on the blotting paper while he was trying to think of what to say . 
And of course after the ink was upset he had to help Anthea to clean out her desk , and he promised to make her another secret drawer , better than the other . 
And she said , 'Well , make it now . 
So it was post time and his letter wasn't done . 
And the secret drawer wasn't done either . 
Perhaps the slugs ate it . 
jane's letter was the only one that went . 
And they could not find it in the dictionary either , though they looked . 
Then Jane hastily finished her letter . 
We found a strange thing , but it is nearly post time , so no more at present from your little girl , JANE . 
And that was how it happened that , though all the children meant to tell their mother about the Sand fairy , somehow or other she never got to know . 
There were other reasons why she never got to know , but these come later . 
The next day Uncle Richard came and took them all to Maidstone in a wagonette all except the Lamb . 
Uncle Richard was the very best kind of uncle . 
He bought them toys at Maidstone . 
He took them into a shop and let them choose exactly what they wanted , without any restrictions about price , and no nonsense about things being instructive . 
It is very wise to let children choose exactly what they like , because they are very foolish and inexperienced , and sometimes they will choose a really instructive thing without meaning to . 
He thought there would be animals inside , the same as on the box . 
When he got it home it was a Sunday puzzle about ancient Nineveh ! The others chose in haste , and were happy at leisure . 
Cyril had a model engine , and the girls had two dolls , as well as a china tea set with forget me nots on it , to be 'between them' . 
The boys' 'between them' was bow and arrows . 
They did not tell Uncle Richard anything about the Psammead . 
I do not know why . 
And they do not know why . 
But I daresay you can guess . 
The day after Uncle Richard had behaved so handsomely was a very hot day indeed . 
They had ordered it to be 'warmer some showers' , and warmer it certainly was . 
In fact it was so busy being warmer that it had no time to attend to the order about showers , so there weren't any . 
Have you ever been up at five o'clock on a fine summer morning ? It is very beautiful . 
The sunlight is pinky and yellowy , and all the grass and trees are covered with dew diamonds . 
She had made herself wake , and I must tell you how it is done , even if it keeps you waiting for the story to go on . 
You get into bed at night , and lie down quite flat on your little back with your hands straight down by your sides . 
, and as you say it you push your chin down on to your chest and then bang your head back on the pillow . 
And you do this as many times as there are ones in the time you want to wake up at . 
if you don't really want to , it's all of no use . 
But if you do well , try it and see . 
Of course in this , as in doing Latin proses or getting into mischief , practice makes perfect . 
At the very moment when she opened her eyes she heard the black and gold clock down in the dining room strike eleven . 
So she knew it was three minutes to five . 
The black and gold clock always struck wrong , but it was all right when you knew what it meant . 
It was like a person talking a foreign language . 
If you know the language it is just as easy to understand as English . 
And Anthea knew the clock language . 
She was very sleepy , but she jumped out of bed and put her face and hands into a basin of cold water . 
This is a fairy charm that prevents your wanting to get back into bed again . 
Then she dressed , and folded up her nightgown . 
Then she took her shoes in her hand and crept softly down the stairs . 
She opened the dining room window and climbed out . 
It would have been just as easy to go out by the door , but the window was more romantic , and less likely to be noticed by Martha . 
'I will always get up at five , she said to herself . 
'It was quite too awfully pretty for anything . 
Her heart was beating very fast , for she was carrying out a plan quite her own . 
She could not be sure that it was a good plan , but she was quite sure that it would not be any better if she were to tell the others about it . 
And she had a feeling that , right or wrong , she would rather go through with it alone . 
'It's too bad , it said , fluffing up its fur like pigeons do their feathers at Christmas time . 
'The weather's arctic , and it's the middle of the night . 
'Thank you , it said , 'that's better . 
What's the wish this morning ? 'I don't know , said she 'that's just it . 
You see we've been very unlucky , so far . 
I wanted to talk to you about it . 
In the old days people almost always knew whether it was Megatherium or Ichthyosaurus they really wanted for dinner . 
'I'll try not , said Anthea , 'but I do wish 'Look out ! said the Psammead in a warning voice , and it began to blow itself out . 
'Oh , this isn't a magic wish it's just I should be so glad if you'd not swell yourself out and nearly burst to give me anything just now . 
Wait till the others are here . 
'Well , well , it said indulgently , but it shivered . 
'Would you , asked Anthea kindly 'would you like to come and sit on my lap ? You'd be warmer , and I could turn the skirt of my frock up round you . 
Anthea had never expected that it would , but it did . 
'Thank you , it said 'you really are rather thoughtful . 
It crept on to her lap and snuggled down , and she put her arms round it with a rather frightened gentleness . 
'Now then ! it said . 
'Well then , said Anthea , 'everything we have wished has turned out rather horrid . 
I wish you would advise us . 
You are so old , you must be very wise . 
'I was always generous from a child , said the Sand fairy . 
'I've spent the whole of my waking hours in giving . 
But one thing I won't give that's advice . 
'You see , Anthea went on , it's such a wonderful thing such a splendid , glorious chance . 
Anthea had meant to say that and she had not wanted to say it before the others . 
It's one thing to say you're silly , and quite another to say that other people are . 
'Child , said the Sand fairy sleepily , 'I can only advise you to think before you speak 'But I thought you never gave advice . 
'That piece doesn't count , it said . 
'You'll never take it ! Besides , it's not original . 
It's in all the copy books . 
'But won't you just say if you think wings would be a silly wish ? 'Wings ? it said . 
'I should think you might do worse . 
Only , take care you aren't flying high at sunset . 
There was a little Ninevite boy I heard of once . 
He was one of King Sennacherib's sons , and a traveller brought him a Psammead . 
He used to keep it in a box of sand on the palace terrace . 
It was a dreadful degradation for one of us , of course still the boy was the Assyrian King's son . 
And one day he wished for wings and got them . 
'Tell me , said Anthea , 'why don't our wishes turn into stone now ? Why do they just vanish ? 'Autres temps , autres moeurs , said the creature . 
'Is that the Ninevite language ? asked Anthea , who had learned no foreign language at school except French . 
But people wish such high flying fanciful things nowadays . 
How are you going to turn being beautiful as the day , or being wanted by everybody , into stone ? You see it can't be done . 
And it would never do to have two rules , so they simply vanish . 
If being beautiful as the day COULD be turned into stone it would last an awfully long time , you know much longer than you would . 
just look at the Greek statues . 
It's just as well as it is . 
It jumped off her lap dug frantically , and vanished . 
Anthea was late for breakfast . 
It was Robert who quietly poured a spoonful of treacle down the Lamb's frock , so that he had to be taken away and washed thoroughly directly after breakfast . 
They did it , and in the lane Anthea , breathless from the scurry of that slipping , panted out 'I want to propose we take turns to wish . 
Only , nobody's to have a wish if the others don't think it's a nice wish . 
Do you agree ? 'Who's to have first wish ? asked Robert cautiously . 
'Me , if you don't mind , said Anthea apologetically . 
'And I've thought about it and it's wings . 
The others rather wanted to find fault , but it was hard , because the word 'wings' raised a flutter of joyous excitement in every breast . 
'Not so dusty , said Cyril generously and Robert added , 'Really , Panther , you're not quite such a fool as you look . 
Jane said , 'I think it would be perfectly lovely . 
It's like a bright dream of delirium . 
They found the Sand fairy easily . 
Anthea said 'I wish we all had beautiful wings to fly with . 
The Sand fairy blew himself out , and next moment each child felt a funny feeling , half heaviness and half lightness , on its shoulders . 
The Psammead put its head on one side and turned its snail's eyes from one to the other . 
'Not so dusty , it said dreamily . 
'But really , Robert , you're not quite such an angel as you look . 
The wings were very big , and more beautiful than you can possibly imagine for they were soft and smooth , and every feather lay neatly in its place . 
'Oh but can we fly ? 'Jane said , standing anxiously first on one foot and then on the other . 
'Look out ! said Cyril 'you're treading on my wing . 
'Does it hurt ? asked Anthea with interest but no one answered , for Robert had spread his wings and jumped up , and now he was slowly rising in the air . 
He looked very awkward in his knickerbocker suit his boots in particular hung helplessly , and seemed much larger than when he was standing in them . 
But the others cared but little how he looked or how they looked , for that matter . 
For now they all spread out their wings and rose in the air . 
Now the four children rose flapping from the ground , and you can't think how good the air felt running against their faces . 
Their wings were tremendously wide when they were spread out , and they had to fly quite a long way apart so as not to get in each other's way . 
But little things like this are easily learned . 
Curiously enough , this happened when they were flying rather low , and just as they were crossing an orchard where some early plums shone red and ripe . 
They paused on their wings . 
I cannot explain to you how this is done , but it is something like treading water when you are swimming , and hawks do it extremely well . 
'Yes , I daresay , said Cyril , though no one had spoken . 
'But stealing is stealing even if you've got wings . 
'Do you really think so ? said Jane briskly . 
'If you've got wings you're a bird , and no one minds birds breaking the commandments . 
At least , they MAY mind , but the birds always do it , and no one scolds them or sends them to prison . 
The man stopped short , with his mouth open . 
But when he saw the rainbow wings flutter up out of the plum tree he felt that he must have gone quite mad , and he did not like the feeling at all . 
She hovered round the unfortunate plum owner , and said , 'We have had some of your plums we thought it wasn't stealing , but now I am not so sure . 
So here's some money to pay for them . 
She swooped down towards the terror stricken grower of plums , and slipped the coin into the pocket of his jacket , and in a few flaps she had rejoined the others . 
The farmer sat down on the grass , suddenly and heavily . 
'Well I'm blessed ! he said . 
'This here is what they call delusions , I suppose . 
But this here threepenny' he had pulled it out and bitten it 'THAT'S real enough . 
Well , from this day forth I'll be a better man . 
It's the kind of thing to sober a chap for life , this is . 
I'm glad it was only wings , though . 
I'd rather see birds as aren't there , and couldn't be , even if they pretend to talk , than some things as I could name . 
So perhaps the winged children really did do one good thing that day . 
If so , it was the only one for really there is nothing like wings for getting you into trouble . 
But , on the other hand , if you arc in trouble , there is nothing like wings for getting you out of it . 
'We can't possibly fly all the way home without dinner or tea , said Robert with desperate decision . 
'And nobody will give us any dinner , or even lunch , let alone tea , said Cyril . 
'Perhaps the clergyman here might , suggested Anthea . 
'He must know all about angels 'Anybody could see we're not that , said Jane . 
'Look at Robert's boots and Squirrel's plaid necktie . 
'Well , said Cyril firmly , 'if the country you're in won't SELL provisions , you TAKE them . 
I'm quite certain you do . 
And even in other stories no good brother would allow his little sisters to starve in the midst of plenty . 
'Plenty ? repeated Robert hungrily and the others looked vaguely round the bare leads of the church tower , and murmured , 'In the midst of ? 'Yes , said Cyril impressively . 
'There is a larder window at the side of the clergyman's house , and I saw things to eat inside custard pudding and cold chicken and tongue and pies and jam . 
It's rather a high window but with wings 'How clever of you ! said Jane . 
'Not at all , said Cyril modestly 'any born general Napoleon or the Duke of Marlborough would have seen it just the same as I did . 
'It seems very wrong , said Anthea . 
'What was it Sir Philip Sidney said when the soldier wouldn't stand him a drink ? My necessity is greater than his . 
'Some of it , was the cautious reply . 
There was five and sevenpence halfpenny altogether , and even the upright Anthea admitted that that was too much to pay for four peoples dinners . 
Robert said he thought eighteen pence . 
And half a crown was finally agreed to be 'hand some' . 
We are afraid to ask you for fear you should say 'No' , because of course you know about angels , but you would not think we were angels . 
But we are not highwaymen by trade . 
'Cut it short , said the others with one accord . 
And Anthea hastily added Our intentions are quite honourable if you only knew . 
And here is half a crown to show we are sinseer and grateful . 
Thank you for your kind hospitality . 
'Now , said Cyril , of course there's some risk we'd better fly straight down the other side of the tower and then flutter low across the churchyard and in through the shrubbery . 
There doesn't seem to be anyone about . 
The window looks out into the shrubbery . 
It is embowered in foliage , like a window in a story . 
I'll go in and get the things . 
Robert and Anthea can take them as I hand them out through the window and Jane can keep watch her eyes are sharp and whistle if she sees anyone about . 
Shut up , Robert ! she can whistle quite well enough for that , anyway . 
It ought not to be a very good whistle it'll sound more natural and birdlike . 
Now then off we go ! I cannot pretend that stealing is right . 
I can only say that on this occasion it did not look like stealing to the hungry four , but appeared in the light of a fair and reasonable business transaction . 
He felt that to refrain from jam , apple turnovers , cake , and mixed candied peel was a really heroic act and I agree with him . 
The soda water syphon was different . 
They could not do without something to drink , and as the maker's name was on it they felt sure it would be returned to him wherever they might leave it . 
If they had time they would take it back themselves . 
The man appeared to live in Rochester , which would not be much out of their way home . 
Everything was carried up to the top of the tower , and laid down on a sheet of kitchen paper which Cyril had found on the top shelf of the larder . 
As he unfolded it , Anthea said , 'I don't think THAT'S a necessity of life . 
'Yes , it is , said he . 
'We must put the things down somewhere to cut them up and I heard father say the other day people got diseases from germans in rain water . 
'What are germans ? 'Little waggly things you see with microscopes , said Cyril , with a scientific air . 
'They give you every illness you can think of ! I'm sure the paper was a necessary , just as much as the bread and meat and water . 
Now then ! Oh , my eyes , I am hungry ! I do not wish to describe the picnic party on the top of the tower . 
You can imagine well enough what it is like to carve a chicken and a tongue with a knife that has only one blade and that snapped off short about half way down . 
Eating with your fingers is greasy and difficult and paper dishes soon get to look very spotty and horrid . 
But one thing you CAN'T imagine , and that is how soda water behaves when you try to drink it straight out of a syphon especially a quite full one . 
But if imagination will not help you , experience will , and you can easily try it for yourself if you can get a grown up to give you the syphon . 
If you want to have a really thorough experience , put the tube in your mouth and press the handle very suddenly and very hard . 
You had better do it when you are alone and out of doors is best for this experiment . 
However you eat them , tongue and chicken and new bread are very good things , and no one minds being sprinkled a little with soda water on a really fine hot day . 
And the sun was sinking slowly in the west . 
The sun , I repeat , was sinking slowly in the west , and the children slept warmly and happily on for wings are cosier than eiderdown quilts to sleep under . 
And still the children slept . 
The four wingless children shivered and woke . 
They looked at each other . 
Cyril spoke first , picking up the syphon 'We'd better get along down and get rid of this beastly thing . 
It's dark enough to leave it on the clergyman's doorstep , I should think . 
There was a little turret at the corner of the tower , and the little turret had a door in it . 
They had noticed this when they were eating , but had not explored it , as you would have done in their place . 
Because , of course , when you have wings , and can explore the whole sky , doors seem hardly worth exploring . 
Now they turned towards it . 
'Of course , said Cyril , 'this is the way down . 
But the door was locked on the inside ! And the world was growing darker and darker . 
And they were miles from home . 
And there was the soda water syphon . 
I shall not tell you whether anyone cried , nor if so , how many cried , nor who cried . 
You will be better employed in making up your minds what you would have done if you had been in their place . 
CHAPTER NO WINGS Whether anyone cried or not , there was certainly an interval during which none of the party was quite itself . 
When they grew calmer , Anthea put her handkerchief in her pocket and her arm round Jane , and said 'It can't be for more than one night . 
We can signal with our handkerchiefs in the morning . 
And someone will come up and let us out 'And find the syphon , said Cyril gloomily 'and we shall be sent to prison for stealing 'You said it wasn't stealing . 
You said you were sure it wasn't . 
'I'm not sure NOW , said Cyril shortly . 
'Let's throw the beastly thing slap away among the trees , said Robert , 'then no one can do anything to us . 
'Oh yes' Cyril's laugh was not a lighthearted one 'and hit some chap on the head , and be murderers as well as as the other thing . 
'But we can't stay up here all night , said Jane 'and I want my tea . 
'You CAN'T want your tea , said Robert 'you've only just had your dinner . 
'But I do want it , she said 'especially when you begin talking about stopping up here all night . 
Oh , Panther I want to go home ! I want to go home ! 'Hush , hush , Anthea said . 
It'll be all right , somehow . 
Don't , don't 'Let her cry , said Robert desperately 'if she howls loud enough , someone may hear and come and let us out . 
'And see the soda water thing , said Anthea swiftly . 
'Robert , don't be a brute . 
Oh , Jane , do try to be a man ! It's just the same for all of us . 
Jane did try to 'be a man' and reduced her howls to sniffs . 
Then Cyril said slowly , 'Look here . 
We must risk that syphon . 
I'll button it up inside my jacket perhaps no one will notice it . 
You others keep well in front of me . 
There are lights in the clergyman's house . 
They've not gone to bed yet . 
We must just yell as loud as ever we can . 
Now all scream when I say three . 
Robert , you do the yell like the railway engine , and I'll do the coo ee like father's . 
The girls can do as they please . 
'One , two , three ! Another yell , piercing and complex , startled the owls and starlings to a flutter of feathers in the belfry below . 
It was quite untrue , of course , but I suppose the girl's nerves were a little upset by the yelling . 
'One , two , three ! The Vicar was on his doorstep by this time , and there was no mistaking the yell that greeted him . 
I expect it's the lunatic who stole the tongue . 
The children had seen the flash of light when the Vicar opened his front door . 
They had seen his dark form on the doorstep , and they had paused for breath , and also to see what he would do . 
When he turned back for his hat , Cyril said hastily 'He thinks he only fancied he heard something . 
'You shan't go ! she said , 'not alone . 
Jessie ! the maid unfainted and came out of the kitchen 'send Andrew at once . 
There's a dangerous lunatic in the church , and he must go immediately and catch it . 
'I expect he WILL catch it too , said Jessie to herself as she went through the kitchen door . 
'Here , Andrew , she said , there's someone screaming like mad in the church , and the missus says you're to go along and catch it . 
'Not alone , I don't , said Andrew in low firm tones . 
To his master he merely said , 'Yes , sir . 
'You heard those screams ? 'I did think I noticed a sort of something , said Andrew . 
'Well , come on , then , said the Vicar . 
'My dear , I MUST go ! He pushed her gently into the sitting room , banged the door , and rushed out , dragging Andrew by the arm . 
A volley of yells greeted them . 
As it died into silence Andrew shouted , 'Hullo , you there ! Did you call ? 'Yes , shouted four far away voices . 
'They seem to be in the air , said the Vicar . 
'Andrew , fetch the stable lantern . 
Perhaps it would be as well to fetch another man from the village . 
'With the rest of the gang about , very likely . 
No , sir if this 'ere ain't a trap well , may I never ! There's cook's cousin at the back door now . 
He's a keeper , sir , and used to dealing with vicious characters . 
And he's got his gun , sir . 
'Hullo there ! shouted Cyril from the church tower 'come up and let us out . 
'We're a coming , said Andrew . 
'I'm a going to get a policeman and a gun . 
'Andrew , Andrew , said the Vicar , 'that's not the truth . 
'It's near enough , sir , for the likes of them . 
So Andrew fetched the lantern and the cook's cousin and the Vicar's wife begged them all to be very careful . 
They went across the churchyard it was quite dark now and as they went they talked . 
The Vicar was certain a lunatic was on the church tower the one who had written the mad letter , and taken the cold tongue and things . 
Andrew thought it was a 'trap' the cook's cousin alone was calm . 
'Great cry , little wool , said he 'dangerous chaps is quieter . 
He was not at all afraid . 
But then he had a gun . 
That was why he was asked to lead the way up the worn steep dark steps of the church tower . 
He did lead the way , with the lantern in one hand and the gun in the other . 
And at the top of that there was a little door . 
And the door was bolted on the stair side . 
'How many of you are there ? asked the keeper . 
'Only four , said Cyril . 
'Are you armed ? 'Are we what ? 'I've got my gun handy so you'd best not try any tricks , said the keeper . 
'If we open the door , will you promise to come quietly down , and no nonsense ? 'Yes oh YES ! said all the children together . 
'Bless me , said the Vicar , 'surely that was a female voice ? 'Shall I open the door , Sir ? said the keeper . 
Andrew went down a few steps , 'to leave room for the others' he said afterwards . 
'Yes , said the Vicar , 'open the door . 
Remember , he said through the keyhole , 'we have come to release you . 
You will keep your promise to refrain from violence ? 'How this bolt do stick , said the keeper 'anyone 'ud think it hadn't been drawed for half a year . 
As a matter of fact it hadn't . 
When all the bolts were drawn , the keeper spoke deep chested words through the keyhole . 
'I don't open , said he , 'till you've gone over to the other side of the tower . 
And if one of you comes at me I fire . 
Now ! 'We're all over on the other side , said the voices . 
He lowered his gun , and he nearly dropped the lantern . 
'So help me , he cried , 'if they ain't a pack of kiddies ! The Vicar now advanced . 
'How did you come here ? he asked severely . 
'Oh , take us down , said Jane , catching at his coat , 'and we'll tell you anything you like . 
You won't believe us , but it doesn't matter . 
Oh , take us down ! The others crowded round him , with the same entreaty . 
He had enough to do with the soda water syphon , which would keep slipping down under his jacket . 
It needed both hands to keep it steady in its place . 
But he said , standing as far out of the lantern light as possible 'Please do take us down . 
So they were taken down . 
It is no joke to go down a strange church tower in the dark , but the keeper helped them only , Cyril had to be independent because of the soda water syphon . 
It would keep trying to get away . 
Half way down the ladder it all but escaped . 
Cyril just caught it by its spout , and as nearly as possible lost his footing . 
He was trembling and pale when at last they reached the bottom of the winding stair and stepped out on to the flags of the church porch . 
Then suddenly the keeper caught Cyril and Robert each by an arm . 
'You bring along the gells , sir , said he 'you and Andrew can manage them . 
'Let go ! said Cyril 'we aren't running away . 
We haven't hurt your old church . 
Leave go ! 'You just come along , said the keeper and Cyril dared not oppose him with violence , because just then the syphon began to slip again . 
So they were all marched into the Vicarage study , and the Vicar's wife came rushing in . 
'Oh , William , are you safe ? she cried . 
Robert hastened to allay her anxiety . 
'Yes , he said , 'he's quite safe . 
We haven't hurt him at all . 
And please , we're very late , and they'll be anxious at home . 
Could you send us home in your carriage ? 'Or perhaps there's a hotel near where we could get a carriage from , said Anthea . 
'Martha will be very anxious as it is . 
The Vicar had sunk into a chair , overcome by emotion and amazement . 
Cyril had also sat down , and was leaning forward with his elbows on his knees because of that soda water syphon . 
'But how did you come to be locked up in the church tower ? asked the Vicar . 
'I should think you did ! said the Vicar's wife . 
'Frightening everybody out of their wits like this ! You ought to be ashamed of yourselves . 
'We are , said Jane gently . 
'But who locked the door ? asked the Vicar . 
'I don't know at all , said Robert , with perfect truth . 
'Do please send us home . 
'Well , really , said the Vicar , 'I suppose we'd better . 
Andrew , put the horse to , and you can take them home . 
'Not alone , I don't , said Andrew to himself . 
'And , the Vicar went on , 'let this be a lesson to you . 
He went on talking , and the children listened miserably . 
But the keeper was not listening . 
He was looking at the unfortunate Cyril . 
He knew all about poachers of course , so he knew how people look when they're hiding something . 
Cyril went on there was nothing else for it 'Yes , we took this out of your larder , and some chicken and tongue and bread . 
We were very hungry , and we didn't take the custard or jam . 
And my father will pay a fine or anything you like , but don't send us to prison . 
Mother would be so vexed . 
You know what you said about not being a disgrace . 
Well , don't you go and do it to us that's all ! We're as sorry as we can be . 
There ! 'However did you get up to the larder window ? said Mrs Vicar . 
'I can't tell you that , said Cyril firmly . 
'Is this the whole truth you've been telling me ? asked the clergyman . 
'No , answered Jane suddenly 'it's all true , but it's not the whole truth . 
We can't tell you that . 
Oh , do forgive us and take us home ! She ran to the Vicar's wife and threw her arms round her . 
The Vicar's wife put her arms round Jane , and the keeper whispered behind his hand to the Vicar 'They're all right , sir I expect it's a pal they're standing by . 
Someone put 'em up to it , and they won't peach . 
'Very well , my dears , said the Vicar , 'then let's say no more about it . 
Only just tell us why you wrote such an odd letter . 
'I don't know , said Cyril . 
'You see , Anthea wrote it in such a hurry , and it really didn't seem like stealing then . 
But afterwards , when we found we couldn't get down off the church tower , it seemed just exactly like it . 
We are all very sorry 'Say no more about it , said the Vicar's wife 'but another time just think before you take other people's tongues . 
Jane was sitting on the Vicar's wife's lap . 
So you see they got off better than they deserved . 
Andrew dumped the children down at the iron gate without a word . 
'You get along home , said the Vicarage cook's cousin , who was a gamekeeper . 
'I'll get me home on Shanks' mare . 
He explained so well that Martha was quite amiable the next morning . 
After that he often used to come over and see Martha and in the end but that is another story , as dear Mr Kipling says . 
Martha was obliged to stick to what she had said the night before about keeping the children indoors the next day for a punishment . 
But she wasn't at all snarky about it , and agreed to let Robert go out for half an hour to get something he particularly wanted . 
This , of course , was the day's wish . 
Robert rushed to the gravel pit , found the Psammead , and presently wished for But that , too , is another story . 
CHAPTER A CASTLE AND NO DINNER The others were to be kept in as a punishment for the misfortunes of the day before . 
Of course Martha thought it was naughtiness , and not misfortune so you must not blame her . 
She only thought she was doing her duty . 
Martha certainly hated having to punish the children quite as much as they hated to be punished . 
For one thing , she knew what a noise there would be in the house all day . 
And she had other reasons . 
You make them a cake for tea to morrow , dear . 
And we'll have Baby along of us soon as we've got a bit forrard with our work . 
Then they can have a good romp with him out of the way . 
Now , Eliza , come , get on with them beds . 
Here's ten o'clock nearly , and no rabbits caught ! People say that in Kent when they mean 'and no work done' . 
So all the others were kept in , but Robert , as I have said , was allowed to go out for half an hour to get something they all wanted . 
And that , of course , was the day's wish . 
'Ha ! it said when its left eye saw Robert 'I've been looking out for you . 
So the others are kept indoors , and I was only let out for half an hour to get the wish . 
So please let me wish as quickly as I can . 
'Wish away , said the Psammead , twisting itself round in the sand . 
But Robert couldn't wish away . 
He sat down to think better , but it was no use . 
'Well , said the Psammead at last , 'you'd better hurry up with that wish of yours . 
'I know it does , said Robert . 
'I can't think what to wish for . 
I wish you could give one of the others their wish without their having to come here to ask for it . 
Oh , DON'T ! But it was too late . 
'There ! it said in a weak voice 'it was tremendously hard but I did it . 
Run along home , or they're sure to wish for something silly before you get there . 
They were quite sure Robert felt this , and as he ran home his mind was deeply occupied with the sort of wishes he might find they had wished in his absence . 
Well , he WAS hurrying up , and so they would have their wish , and the day would be wasted . 
Then he tried to think what they could wish for something that would be amusing indoors . 
That had been his own difficulty from the beginning . 
So few things are amusing indoors when the sun is shining outside and you mayn't go out , however much you want to . 
Then suddenly he stopped short , for there was no house to be seen . 
The front garden railings were gone too , and where the house had stood Robert rubbed his eyes and looked again . 
Robert walked slowly on , and as he got nearer he saw that these were tents ) and men in armour were walking about among the tents crowds and crowds of them . 
'Oh , crikey ! said Robert fervently . 
Robert thought it was one of Cyril's handkerchiefs . 
They had never been white since the day when he had upset the bottle of 'Combined Toning and Fixing Solution' into the drawer where they were . 
Robert waved back , and immediately felt that he had been unwise . 
For his signal had been seen by the besieging force , and two men in steel caps were coming towards him . 
They had high brown boots on their long legs , and they came towards him with such great strides that Robert remembered the shortness of his own legs and did not run away . 
He knew it would be useless to himself , and he feared it might be irritating to the foe . 
So he stood still , and the two men seemed quite pleased with him . 
'By my halidom , said one , 'a brave varlet this ! Robert felt pleased at being CALLED brave , and somehow it made him FEEL brave . 
He passed over the 'varlet' . 
It was the way people talked in historical romances for the young , he knew , and it was evidently not meant for rudeness . 
He only hoped he would be able to understand what they said to him . 
He had not always been able quite to follow the conversations in the historical romances for the young . 
'His garb is strange , said the other . 
'Some outlandish treachery , belike . 
'Go , then ! said the man in the longest boots 'none hindereth , and nought lets us to follow . 
Zooks ! he added in a cautious undertone , 'I misdoubt me but he beareth tidings to the besieged . 
'Where dwellest thou , young knave ? inquired the man with the largest steel cap . 
'Over there , said Robert and directly he had said it he knew he ought to have said 'Yonder ! 'Ha sayest so ? rejoined the longest boots . 
This is a matter for our leader . 
And to the leader Robert was dragged forthwith by the reluctant ear . 
The leader was the most glorious creature Robert had ever seen . 
He was exactly like the pictures Robert had so often admired in the historical romances . 
He had armour , and a helmet , and a horse , and a crest , and feathers , and a shield , and a lance , and a sword . 
His armour and his weapons were all , I am almost sure , of quite different periods . 
The shield was thirteenth century , while the sword was of the pattern used in the Peninsular War . 
The cuirass was of the time of Charles I , and the helmet dated from the Second Crusade . 
The arms on the shield were very grand three red running lions on a blue ground . 
The tents were of the latest brand and the whole appearance of camp , army , and leader might have been a shock to some . 
The scene was indeed 'exactly like a picture' . 
He admired it all so much that he felt braver than ever . 
'Come hither , lad , said the glorious leader , when the men in Cromwellian steel caps had said a few low eager words . 
And he took off his helmet , because he could not see properly with it on . 
He had a kind face , and long fair hair . 
'Have no fear thou shalt take no scathe , he said . 
Robert was glad of that . 
He wondered what 'scathe' was , and if it was nastier than the senna tea which he had to take sometimes . 
'Unfold thy tale without alarm , said the leader kindly . 
'Whence comest thou , and what is thine intent ? 'My what ? said Robert . 
'I don't think so , said Robert 'you see , she doesn't know I'm out . 
However , he began boldly enough , with a sentence straight out of Ralph de Courcy or , The Boy Crusader . 
He said 'Grammercy for thy courtesy , fair sir knight . 
The fact is , it's like this and I hope you're not in a hurry , because the story's rather a breather . 
Father and mother are away , and when we were down playing in the sand pits we found a Psammead . 
'I cry thee mercy ! A Sammyadd ? said the knight . 
'And then we wished for money treasure , you know but we couldn't spend it . 
And yesterday we wished for wings , and we got them , and we had a ripping time to begin with 'Thy speech is strange and uncouth , said Sir Wulfric de Talbot . 
'What is a fix ? A fray , mayhap ? 'No not a fray . 
A a a tight place . 
'A dungeon ? Alas for thy youthful fettered limbs ! said the knight , with polite sympathy . 
We just just encountered undeserved misfortunes , Robert explained , 'and to day we are punished by not being allowed to go out . 
That's where I live , he pointed to the castle . 
'The others are in there , and they're not allowed to go out . 
It's all the Psammead's I mean the enchanter's fault . 
I wish we'd never seen him . 
'He is an enchanter of might ? 'Oh yes of might and main . 
'No , I'm sure you don't , said Robert , with hasty courtesy 'of course not you wouldn't , you know . 
But , all the same , it's partly his fault , but we're most to blame . 
You couldn't have done anything if it hadn't been for us . 
'How now , bold boy ? asked Sir Wulfric haughtily . 
'Thy speech is dark , and eke scarce courteous . 
Unravel me this riddle ! 'Oh , said Robert desperately , 'of course you don't know it , but you're not REAL at all . 
You're only here because the others must have been idiots enough to wish for a castle and when the sun sets you'll just vanish away , and it'll be all right . 
Shall we not bind him ? 'I'm no more mad than you are , said Robert angrily , 'perhaps not so much only , I was an idiot to think you'd understand anything . 
Let me go I haven't done anything to you . 
'Whither ? asked the knight , who seemed to have believed all the enchanter story till it came to his own share in it . 
'Whither wouldst thou wend ? 'Home , of course . 
Robert pointed to the castle . 
'To carry news of succour ? Nay ! 'All right then , said Robert , struck by a sudden idea 'then let me go somewhere else . 
His mind sought eagerly among his memories of the historical romance . 
'This to my face ! Beshrew thee for a knave ! replied Sir Wulfric . 
But the appeal seemed to have gone home . 
'Yet thou sayest sooth , he added thoughtfully . 
'Go where thou wilt , he added nobly , 'thou art free . 
Wulfric de Talbot warreth not with babes , and Jakin here shall bear thee company . 
'All right , said Robert wildly . 
'Jakin will enjoy himself , I think . 
Sir Wulfric , I salute thee . 
He saluted after the modern military manner , and set off running to the sand pit , Jakin's long boots keeping up easily . 
He dug it up , he woke it up , he implored it to give him one more wish . 
'I've done two to day already , it grumbled , 'and one was as stiff a bit of work as ever I did . 
'Well , what is it ? snapped the Psammead , with cross sleepiness . 
'I wish I was with the others , said Robert . 
And the Psammead began to swell . 
Robert never thought of wishing the castle and the siege away . 
Of course he knew they had all come out of a wish , but swords and daggers and pikes and lances seemed much too real to be wished away . 
Robert lost consciousness for an instant . 
When he opened his eyes the others were crowding round him . 
'We never heard you come in , they said . 
'How awfully jolly of you to wish it to give us our wish ! 'Of course we understood that was what you'd done . 
'But you ought to have told us . 
Suppose we'd wished something silly . 
'Silly ? said Robert , very crossly indeed . 
'How much sillier could you have been , I'd like to know ? You nearly settled ME I can tell you . 
Then he told his story , and the others admitted that it certainly had been rough on him . 
But they praised his courage and cleverness so much that he presently got back his lost temper , and felt braver than ever , and consented to be captain of the besieged force . 
'We haven't done anything yet , said Anthea comfortably 'we waited for you . 
We're going to shoot at them through these little loopholes with the bow and arrows uncle gave you , and you shall have first shot . 
'I don't think I would , said Robert cautiously 'you don't know what they're like near to . 
They've got REAL bows and arrows an awful length and swords and pikes and daggers , and all sorts of sharp things . 
They're all quite , quite real . 
It's not just a a picture , or a vision , or anything they can hurt us or kill us even , I shouldn't wonder . 
I can feel my ear all sore still . 
Look here have you explored the castle ? Because I think we'd better let them alone as long as they let us alone . 
I heard that Jakin man say they weren't going to attack till just before sundown . 
We can be getting ready for the attack . 
Are there any soldiers in the castle to defend it ? 'We don't know , said Cyril . 
Isn't this room jolly ? It's as real as real ! It was . 
It was square , with stone walls four feet thick , and great beams for ceiling . 
A low door at the corner led to a flight of steps , up and down . 
The children went down they found themselves in a great arched gatehouse the enormous doors were shut and barred . 
Opposite the great door that led to the moat was another great door , with a little door in it . 
The children went through this , and found themselves in a big paved courtyard , with the great grey walls of the castle rising dark and heavy on all four sides . 
Near the middle of the courtyard stood Martha , moving her right hand backwards and forwards in the air . 
The cook was stooping down and moving her hands , also in a very curious way . 
the oddest and at the same time most terrible thing was the Lamb , who was sitting on nothing , about three feet from the ground , laughing happily . 
The children ran towards him . 
Just as Anthea was reaching out her arms to take him , Martha said crossly , 'Let him alone do , miss , when he is good . 
'But what's he DOING ? said Anthea . 
'Doing ? Why , a setting in his high chair as good as gold , a precious , watching me doing of the ironing . 
Get along with you , do my iron's cold again . 
She went towards the cook , and seemed to poke an invisible fire with an unseen poker the cook seemed to be putting an unseen dish into an invisible oven . 
'Run along with you , do , she said 'I'm behindhand as it is . 
You won't get no dinner if you come a hindering of me like this . 
Come , off you goes , or I'll pin a dishcloth to some of your tails . 
'You're sure the Lamb's all right ? asked Jane anxiously . 
'Right as ninepence , if you don't come unsettling of him . 
I thought you'd like to be rid of him for to day but take him , if you want him , for gracious' sake . 
'No , no , they said , and hastened away . 
They would have to defend the castle presently , and the Lamb was safer even suspended in mid air in an invisible kitchen than in the guardroom of a besieged castle . 
They went through the first doorway they came to , and sat down helplessly on a wooden bench that ran along the room inside . 
'How awful ! said Anthea and Jane together and Jane added , 'I feel as if I was in a mad asylum . 
'What does it mean ? Anthea said . 
'It's creepy I don't like it . 
I wish we'd wished for something plain a rocking horse , or a donkey , or something . 
'It's no use wishing NOW , said Robert bitterly and Cyril said 'Do dry up a sec I want to think . 
He buried his face in his hands , and the others looked about them . 
They were in a long room with an arched roof . 
There were wooden tables along it , and one across at the end of the room , on a sort of raised platform . 
The room was very dim and dark . 
The floor was strewn with dry things like sticks , and they did not smell nice . 
Cyril sat up suddenly and said 'Look here it's all right . 
I think it's like this . 
You know , we wished that the servants shouldn't notice any difference when we got wishes . 
And nothing happens to the Lamb unless we specially wish it to . 
So of course they don't notice the castle or anything . 
And we can't eat air , and I feel just as if I hadn't had any breakfast for years and years . 
'It's no use thinking about it , said Anthea . 
Perhaps we might find something to eat . 
This lighted hope in every breast , and they went on exploring the castle . 
'If only you'd thought of wishing to be besieged in a castle thoroughly garrisoned and provisioned ! said Jane reproachfully . 
'You can't think of everything , you know , said Anthea . 
'I should think it must be nearly dinner time by now . 
When she had left the room , the children looked at the empty table , and then at each other . 
'This is worse than anything , said Robert , who had not till now been particularly keen on his dinner . 
'I'm not so very hungry , said Anthea , trying to make the best of things , as usual . 
Cyril tightened his belt ostentatiously . 
CHAPTER A SIEGE AND BED The children were sitting in the gloomy banqueting hall , at the end of one of the long bare wooden tables . 
There was now no hope . 
Suddenly Cyril felt in his pocket . 
'Right , oh ! he cried . 
Rather broken and crumbled , certainly , but still biscuits . 
Three whole ones , and a generous handful of crumbs and fragments . 
'I got them this morning cook and I'd quite forgotten , he explained as he divided them with scrupulous fairness into four heaps . 
'Yes , but look here , Squirrel , said Robert 'you're so clever at explaining about invisibleness and all that . 
Nothing about us has changed . 
Everything's in my pocket all right . 
'Then if we HAD the mutton it would be real , said Robert . 
'Oh , don't I wish we could find it ! 'But we can't find it . 
I suppose it isn't ours till we've got it in our mouths . 
'Or in our pockets , said Jane , thinking of the biscuits . 
'Who puts mutton in their pockets , goose girl ? said Cyril . 
'It's no good , said Robert in deep dejection . 
'You'll only Hullo ! Cyril stood up with a grin of triumph , holding a square piece of bread in his mouth . 
He took another bite from the air between his fingers , and it turned into bread as he bit . 
The next moment all the others were following his example , and opening and shutting their mouths an inch or so from the bare looking table . 
Robert captured a slice of mutton , and but I think I will draw a veil over the rest of this painful scene . 
Martha said , 'Well , I never what next , I wonder ! and went away . 
Then ensued another scene on which I will not dwell , for nobody looks nice picking up slices of suet pudding from the table in its mouth , like a dog . 
The great thing , after all , was that they had had dinner and now everyone felt more courage to prepare for the attack that was to be delivered before sunset . 
Robert , as captain , insisted on climbing to the top of one of the towers to reconnoitre , so up they all went . 
And now they could see all round the castle , and could see , too , that beyond the moat , on every side , the tents of the besieging party were pitched . 
Rather uncomfortable shivers ran down the children's backs as they saw that all the men were very busy cleaning or sharpening their arms , re stringing their bows , and polishing their shields . 
A large party came along the road , with horses dragging along the great trunk of a tree and Cyril felt quite pale , because he knew this was for a battering ram . 
'What a good thing we've got a moat , he said 'and what a good thing the drawbridge is up I should never have known how to work it . 
'Of course it would be up in a besieged castle . 
'You'd think there ought to have been soldiers in it , wouldn't you ? said Robert . 
'How do you begin defending to the death , I mean ? asked Anthea . 
'We ought to be heavily armed and then shoot at them when they advance to the attack . 
'They used to pour boiling lead down on besiegers when they got too close , said Anthea . 
'Father showed me the holes on purpose for pouring it down through at Bodiam Castle . 
And there are holes like it in the gate tower here . 
'I think I'm glad it's only a game it IS only a game , isn't it ? said Jane . 
The daggers were better but Jane hoped that the besiegers would not come close enough for daggers to be of any use . 
'Never mind , we can hurl them like javelins , said Cyril , 'or drop them on people's heads . 
I say there are lots of stones on the other side of the courtyard . 
If we took some of those up , just to drop on their heads if they were to try swimming the moat . 
So a heap of stones grew apace , up in the room above the gate and another heap , a shiny spiky dangerous looking heap , of daggers and knives . 
As Anthea was crossing the courtyard for more stones , a sudden and valuable idea came to her . 
She went to Martha and said , 'May we have just biscuits for tea ? We're going to play at besieged castles , and we'd like the biscuits to provision the garrison . 
Put mine in my pocket , please , my hands are so dirty . 
And I'll tell the others to fetch theirs . 
They brought up some iron pots of cold water to pour on the besiegers instead of hot lead , with which the castle did not seem to be provided . 
The afternoon passed with wonderful quickness . 
It was very exciting but none of them , except Robert , could feel all the time that this was real deadly dangerous work . 
But it was only now and then that Robert could feel this . 
When it seemed to be tea time the biscuits were eaten with water from the deep well in the courtyard , drunk out of horns . 
Cyril insisted on putting by eight of the biscuits , in case anyone should feel faint in stress of battle . 
just as he was putting away the reserve biscuits in a sort of little stone cupboard without a door , a sudden sound made him drop three . 
It was the loud fierce cry of a trumpet . 
'You see it IS real , said Robert , 'and they are going to attack . 
All rushed to the narrow windows . 
'Yes , said Robert , 'they're all coming out of their tents and moving about like ants . 
There's that Jakin dancing about where the bridge joins on . 
I wish he could see me put my tongue out at him ! Yah ! The others were far too pale to wish to put their tongues out at anybody . 
They looked at Robert with surprised respect . 
Anthea said 'You really ARE brave , Robert . 
'Rot ! Cyril's pallor turned to redness now , all in a minute . 
'He's been getting ready to be brave all the afternoon . 
And I wasn't ready , that's all . 
I shall be braver than he is in half a jiffy . 
'But are you quite , quite sure they ARE civilized ? asked Jane , panting . 
'They seem to be such a long time ago . 
Anthea pointed cheerfully through the narrow window . 
Jane consented to look , and the scene was almost too pretty to be alarming . 
The trumpets were sounding , and when the trumpets stopped for breath the children could hear the cling clang of armour and the murmur of voices . 
A trumpeter came forward to the edge of the moat , which now seemed very much narrower than at first , and blew the longest and loudest blast they had yet heard . 
'Hullo there ! Robert bellowed back at once . 
Do ye surrender ? 'No , bawled Robert , 'of course we don't ! Never , Never , NEVER ! The man answered back 'Then your fate be on your own heads . 
'Cheer , said Robert in a fierce whisper . 
'Cheer to show them we aren't afraid , and rattle the daggers to make more noise . 
There was another shout from the camp across the moat and then the beleaguered fortress felt that the attack had indeed begun . 
It was getting rather dark in the room above the great gate , and Jane took a very little courage as she remembered that sunset couldn't be far off now . 
'The moat is dreadfully thin , said Anthea . 
'But they can't get into the castle even if they do swim over , said Robert . 
And as he spoke he heard feet on the stair outside heavy feet and the clank of steel . 
No one breathed for a moment . 
The steel and the feet went on up the turret stairs . 
Then Robert sprang softly to the door . 
He pulled off his shoes . 
'Wait here , he whispered , and stole quickly and softly after the boots and the spur clank . 
He peeped into the upper room . 
The man was there and it was Jakin , all dripping with moat water , and he was fiddling about with the machinery which Robert felt sure worked the drawbridge . 
Robert banged the door suddenly , and turned the great key in the lock , just as Jakin sprang to the inside of the door . 
Then he tore downstairs and into the little turret at the foot of the tower where the biggest window was . 
'We ought to have defended THIS ! he cried to the others as they followed him . 
He was just in time . 
Another man had swum over , and his fingers were on the window ledge . 
Robert never knew how the man had managed to climb up out of the water . 
But he saw the clinging fingers , and hit them as hard as he could with an iron bar that he caught up from the floor . 
The man fell with a plop plash into the moat water . 
In another moment Robert was outside the little room , had banged its door and was shooting home the enormous bolts , and calling to Cyril to lend a hand . 
Then they stood in the arched gate house , breathing hard and looking at each other . 
'Cheer up , jenny , said Robert 'it won't last much longer . 
There was a creaking above , and something rattled and shook . 
The pavement they stood on seemed to tremble . 
Then a crash told them that the drawbridge had been lowered to its place . 
'That's that beast Jakin , said Robert . 
'There's still the portcullis I'm almost certain that's worked from lower down . 
And now the drawbridge rang and echoed hollowly to the hoofs of horses and the tramp of armed men . 
'Up quick ! cried Robert . 
'Let's drop things on them . 
Even the girls were feeling almost brave now . 
They followed Robert quickly , and under his directions began to drop stones out through the long narrow windows . 
There was a confused noise below , and some groans . 
'Oh dear ! said Anthea , putting down the stone she was just going to drop out . 
'I'm afraid we've hurt somebody ! Robert caught up the stone in a fury . 
'I should just hope we HAD ! he said 'I'd give something for a jolly good boiling kettle of lead . 
Surrender , indeed ! And now came more tramping , and a pause , and then the thundering thump of the battering ram . 
And the little room was almost quite dark . 
'We've held it , cried Robert , 'we won't surrender ! The sun MUST set in a minute . 
Here they're all jawing underneath again . 
Pity there's no time to get more stones ! Here , pour that water down on them . 
It's no good , of course , but they'll hate it . 
'Oh dear ! said Jane 'don't you think we'd better surrender ? 'Never ! said Robert 'we'll have a parley if you like , but we'll never surrender . 
Oh , I'll be a soldier when I grow up you just see if I don't . 
I won't go into the Civil Service , whatever anyone says . 
'Let's wave a handkerchief and ask for a parley , Jane pleaded . 
'I don't believe the sun's going to set to night at all . 
'Give them the water first the brutes ! said the bloodthirsty Robert . 
So Anthea tilted the pot over the nearest lead hole , and poured . 
They heard a splash below , but no one below seemed to have felt it . 
And again the ram battered the great door . 
'How idiotic , said Robert , lying flat on the floor and putting one eye to the lead hole . 
'Of course the holes go straight down into the gate house that's for when the enemy has got past the door and the portcullis , and almost all is lost . 
Here , hand me the pot . 
He crawled on to the three cornered window ledge in the middle of the wall , and , taking the pot from Anthea , poured the water out through the arrow slit . 
They all crowded to the window and looked out . 
Everyone drew a deep breath . 
'And that's all right ! said Robert . 
'I told you so ! And , I say , we didn't surrender , did we ? 'Aren't you glad now I wished for a castle ? asked Cyril . 
'I think I am NOW , said Anthea slowly . 
'But I wouldn't wish for it again , I think , Squirrel dear ! 'Oh , it was simply splendid ! said Jane unexpectedly . 
'I wasn't frightened a bit . 
'Oh , I say ! Cyril was beginning , but Anthea stopped him . 
'Look here , she said , 'it's just come into my head . 
This is the very first thing we've wished for that hasn't got us into a row . 
And there hasn't been the least little scrap of a row about this . 
Nobody's raging downstairs , we're safe and sound , we've had an awfully jolly day at least , not jolly exactly , but you know what I mean . 
And we know now how brave Robert is and Cyril too , of course , she added hastily , 'and Jane as well . 
And we haven't got into a row with a single grown up . 
The door was opened suddenly and fiercely . 
'You ought to be ashamed of yourselves , said the voice of Martha , and they could tell by her voice that she was very angry indeed . 
Now then don't let me have to tell you twice . 
The children were very sorry , but really it was not their faults . 
'I don't know why the water didn't change into nothing , though , said Cyril . 
'Why should it ? asked Robert . 
'Water's water all the world over . 
'I expect the castle well was the same as ours in the stable yard , said Jane . 
And that was really the case . 
'I thought we couldn't get through a wish day without a row , said Cyril 'it was much too good to be true . 
Come on , Bobs , my military hero . 
If we lick into bed sharp she won't be so frumious , and perhaps she'll bong us up some supper . 
I'm jolly hungry ! Good night , kids . 
I hope the castle won't come creeping back in the night , said Jane . 
'Of course it won't , said Anthea briskly , 'but Martha will not in the night , but in a minute . 
Here , turn round , I'll get that knot out of your pinafore strings . 
'Wouldn't it have been degrading for Sir Wulfric de Talbot , said Jane dreamily , 'if he could have known that half the besieged garrison wore pinafores ? 'And the other half knickerbockers . 
Do stand still you're only tightening the knot , said Anthea . 
CHAPTER BIGGER THAN THE BAKER'S BOY 'Look here , said Cyril . 
'Does it hurt much ? said Robert sympathetically . 
'Don't be a jackape ! I'm not humbugging . 
'Shut up , Bobs ! said Anthea . 
'Silence for the Squirrel's oration , said Robert . 
Cyril balanced himself on the edge of the water butt in the backyard , where they all happened to be , and spoke . 
'Friends , Romans , countrymen and women we found a Sammyadd . 
We've had wings , and being beautiful as the day ugh ! that was pretty jolly beastly if you like and wealth and castles , and that rotten gipsy business with the Lamb . 
We haven't really got anything worth having for our wishes . 
'We've had things happening , said Robert 'that's always something . 
'It's not enough , unless they're the right things , said Cyril firmly . 
'Now I've been thinking 'Not really ? whispered Robert . 
'In the silent what's its names of the night . 
of the beholder , however stupid he is , Cyril went on . 
'Why , even Robert might happen to think of a really useful wish if he didn't injure his poor little brains trying so hard to think . 
Shut up , Bobs , I tell you ! You'll have the whole show over . 
A struggle on the edge of a water butt is exciting , but damp . 
When it was over , and the boys were partially dried , Anthea said 'It really was you began it , Bobs . 
Now honour is satisfied ) do let Squirrel go on . 
We're wasting the whole morning . 
'Well then , said Cyril , still wringing the water out of the tails of his jacket , 'I'll call it pax if Bobs will . 
'Pax then , said Robert sulkily . 
'But I've got a lump as big as a cricket ball over my eye . 
Anthea patiently offered a dust coloured handkerchief , and Robert bathed his wounds in silence . 
'Now , Squirrel , she said . 
'Well then let's just play bandits , or forts , or soldiers , or any of the old games . 
We're dead sure to think of something if we try not to . 
Bandits was hastily chosen for the game . 
'It's as good as anything else , said Jane gloomily . 
Bows and arrows slung on the back look well and umbrellas and cricket stumps stuck through the belt give a fine impression of the wearer's being armed to the teeth . 
The white cotton hats that men wear in the country nowadays have a very brigandish effect when a few turkey's feathers are stuck in them . 
The Lamb's mail cart was covered with a red and blue checked tablecloth , and made an admirable baggage wagon . 
The Lamb asleep inside it was not at all in the way . 
So the banditti set out along the road that led to the sand pit . 
'We ought to be near the Sammyadd , said Cyril , 'in case we think of anything suddenly . 
The opportunity was not one to be lost . 
'Stand and deliver ! cried Cyril . 
'Your money or your life ! said Robert . 
And they stood on each side of the baker's boy . 
Unfortunately , he did not seem to enter into the spirit of the thing at all . 
He was a baker's boy of an unusually large size . 
He merely said 'Chuck it now , d'ye hear ! and pushed the bandits aside most disrespectfully . 
Then Robert lassoed him with jane's skipping rope , and instead of going round his shoulders , as Robert intended , it went round his feet and tripped him up . 
The basket was upset , the beautiful new loaves went bumping and bouncing all over the dusty chalky road . 
It did not succeed indeed the way the boxwood handles sprang up and hit the fighters on the shins and ankles was not at all peace making . 
I know this is the second fight or contest in this chapter , but I can't help it . 
It was that sort of day . 
You know yourself there are days when rows seem to keep on happening , quite without your meaning them to . 
I never can see what happens during a fight , even when it is only dogs . 
Also , if I had been one of these Boys of England writers , Robert would have got the best of it . 
Robert always used to say he could have licked the butcher if it hadn't been for the girls . 
But I am not sure . 
Anyway , what happened was this , and very painful it was to self respecting boys . 
'Oh , don't hurt my brother any more ! she said in floods of tears . 
'He didn't mean it it's only play . 
And I'm sure he's very sorry . 
You see how unfair this was to Robert . 
But Robert's fears , if he had any , were soon dispelled . 
Chivalry was a stranger to the breast of the baker's boy . 
'I'D larn you , you young varmint ! he said , and went off to pick up his loaves and go about his business . 
Cyril , impeded by Jane , could do nothing without hurting her , for she clung round his legs with the strength of despair . 
The baker's boy went off red and damp about the face abusive to the last , he called them a pack of silly idiots , and disappeared round the corner . 
Cyril turned away in silent dignity to follow Robert , and the girls followed him , weeping without restraint . 
It was not a happy party that flung itself down in the sand beside the sobbing Robert . 
For Robert was sobbing mostly with rage . 
Though of course I know that a really heroic boy is always dry eyed after a fight . 
But then he always wins , which had not been the case with Robert . 
Cyril was angry with Jane Robert was furious with Anthea the girls were miserable and not one of the four was pleased with the baker's boy . 
There was , as French writers say , 'a silence full of emotion' . 
Then Robert dug his toes and his hands into the sand and wriggled in his rage . 
'He'd better wait till I'm grown up the cowardly brute ! Beast ! I hate him ! But I'll pay him out . 
just because he's bigger than me . 
'You began , said Jane incautiously . 
'I know I did , silly but I was only rotting and he kicked me look here Robert tore down a stocking and showed a purple bruise touched up with red . 
'I only wish I was bigger than him , that's all . 
He dug his fingers in the sand , and sprang up , for his hand had touched something furry . 
It was the Psammead , of course 'On the look out to make sillies of them as usual , as Cyril remarked later . 
And of course the next moment Robert's wish was granted , and he was bigger than the baker's boy . 
Oh , but much , much bigger . 
He must have been ten or eleven feet high , and as broad as a boy of that height ought to be . 
his Norfolk suit had fortunately grown too , and now he stood up in it with one of his enormous stockings turned down to show the gigantic bruise on his vast leg . 
Immense tears of fury still stood on his flushed giant face . 
He looked so surprised , and he was so large to be wearing an Eton collar , that the others could not help laughing . 
'The Sammyadd's done us again , said Cyril . 
'Not us ME , said Robert . 
'If you'd got any decent feeling you'd try to make it make you the same size . 
You've no idea how silly it feels , he added thoughtlessly . 
Look here , Squirrel , let's play fair . 
It is hateful for poor old Bobs , all alone up there . 
Let's ask the Sammyadd for another wish , and , if it will , I do really think we ought to be made the same size . 
The others agreed , but not gaily but when they found the Psammead , it wouldn't . 
'Not I , it said crossly , rubbing its face with its feet . 
He's a rude violent boy , and it'll do him good to be the wrong size for a bit . 
What did he want to come digging me out with his nasty wet hands for ? He nearly touched me ! He's a perfect savage . 
A boy of the Stone Age would have had more sense . 
Robert's hands had indeed been wet with tears . 
'Go away and leave me in peace , do , the Psammead went on . 
'I can't think why you don't wish for something sensible something to eat or drink , or good manners , or good tempers . 
Go along with you , do ! It almost snarled as it shook its whiskers , and turned a sulky brown back on them . 
The most hopeful felt that further parley was vain . 
They turned again to the colossal Robert . 
'Whatever shall we do ? they said and they all said it . 
'First , said Robert grimly , 'I'm going to reason with that baker's boy . 
I shall catch him at the end of the road . 
'Don't hit a chap littler than yourself , old man , said Cyril . 
'Do I look like hitting him ? said Robert scornfully . 
'Why , I should KILL him . 
But I'll give him something to remember . 
Wait till I pull up my stocking . 
He pulled up his stocking , which was as large as a small bolster case , and strode off . 
I don't think the boy heard it all he was in a sort of trance of terror . 
Next day the tale was believed but that was too late to be of any use to the baker's boy . 
When Robert rejoined the others he found them in the garden . 
The Lamb , who had slept peacefully during the whole stormy morning , was now found to be sneezing , and Martha said he had a cold and would be better indoors . 
He found himself able to step right over the iron gate in the front garden . 
Martha brought out the dinner it was cold veal and baked potatoes , with sago pudding and stewed plums to follow . 
She of course did not notice that Robert was anything but the usual size , and she gave him as much meat and potatoes as usual and no more . 
You have no idea how small your usual helping of dinner looks when you are many times your proper size . 
Robert groaned , and asked for more bread . 
But Martha would not go on giving more bread for ever . 
She was in a hurry , because the keeper intended to call on his way to Benenhurst Fair , and she wished to be dressed smartly before he came . 
'I wish WE were going to the Fair , said Robert . 
'You can't go anywhere that size , said Cyril . 
'Why not ? said Robert . 
'They have giants at fairs , much bigger ones than me . 
'No , she said , breathless from being thumped , 'it's it's not a plum stone . 
'Much more likely me take you ! And so it turned out . 
The idea appealed irresistibly to everyone but Robert , and even he was brought round by Anthea's suggestion that he should have a double share of any money they might make . 
There was a little old pony trap in the coach house the kind that is called a governess cart . 
It was as easy to him now as wheeling the Lamb in the mail cart had been in the morning . 
The Lamb's cold prevented his being of the party . 
It was a strange sensation being wheeled in a pony carriage by a giant . 
Everyone enjoyed the journey except Robert and the few people they passed on the way . 
These mostly went into what looked like some kind of standing up fits by the roadside , as Anthea said . 
just outside Benenhurst , Robert hid in a barn , and the others went on to the Fair . 
There were some swings , and a hooting tooting blaring merry go round , and a shooting gallery and coconut shies . 
'Here you are , little gentleman ! she said . 
'Penny a shot ! 'No , thank you , said Cyril , 'we are here on business , not on pleasure . 
Who's the master ? 'The what ? 'The master the head the boss of the show . 
'Over there , she said , pointing to a stout man in a dirty linen jacket who was sleeping in the sun 'but I don't advise you to wake him sudden . 
His temper's contrary , especially these hot days . 
Better have a shot while you're waiting . 
'It's rather important , said Cyril . 
'It'll be very profitable to him . 
I think he'll be sorry if we take it away . 
'Oh , if it's money in his pocket , said the woman . 
'No kid now ? What is it ? 'It's a GIANT . 
'You ARE kidding ? 'Come along and see , said Anthea . 
I'm as mild as milk myself , but my Bill he's a fair terror and Anthea led the way to the barn . 
'It really IS a giant , she said . 
'He's a giant little boy in Norfolks like my brother's there . 
And we didn't bring him up to the Fair because people do stare so , and they seem to go into kind of standing up fits when they see him . 
The woman murmured something indistinct , of which the children could only hear the words , 'Swelp me ! 'balmy , and 'crumpet , which conveyed no definite idea to their minds . 
When they reached the barn and Cyril called 'Robert ! there was a stir among the loose hay , and Robert began to come out . 
His hand and arm came first then a foot and leg . 
She dropped into understandable English at last . 
'What'll you take for him ? she said excitedly . 
We'd have a special van built leastways , I know where there's a second hand one would do up handsome what a baby elephant had , as died . 
What'll you take ? He's soft , ain't he ? Them giants mostly is but I never see no , never ! What'll you take ? Down on the nail . 
We'll treat him like a king , and give him first rate grub and a doss fit for a bloomin' dook . 
He must be dotty or he wouldn't need you kids to cart him about . 
What'll you take for him ? 'They won't take anything , said Robert sternly . 
'I'm no more soft than you are not so much , I shouldn't wonder . 
I'll come and be a show for to day if you'll give me' he hesitated at the enormous price he was about to ask 'if you'll give me fifteen shillings . 
'Done , said the woman , so quickly that Robert felt he had been unfair to himself , and wished he had asked thirty . 
'Come on now and see my Bill and we'll fix a price for the season . 
I dessay you might get as much as two quid a week reg'lar . 
He crept in , and the woman went to call her Bill . 
He was the big sleeping man , and he did not seem at all pleased at being awakened . 
Cyril , watching through a slit in the tent , saw him scowl and shake a heavy fist and a sleepy head . 
Then the woman went on speaking very fast . 
Cyril heard 'Strewth , and 'biggest draw you ever , so help me ! and he began to share Robert's feeling that fifteen shillings was indeed far too little . 
Bill slouched up to the tent and entered . 
'We'll fix up about what you're to draw when the show's over to night , he said with hoarse heartiness . 
'Lor' love a duck ! you'll be that happy with us you'll never want to leave us . 
'Get Levi and clear them bloomin' photos out . 
Stick up a curtain or suthink , the man went on . 
'Lor' , what a pity we ain't got no tights his size ! But we'll have 'em before the week's out . 
Young man , your fortune's made . 
It's a good thing you came to me , and not to some chaps as I could tell you on . 
I've known blokes as beat their giants , and starved 'em too so I'll tell you straight , you're in luck this day if you never was afore . 
'Cos I'm a lamb , I am and I don't deceive you . 
'I'm not afraid of anyone's beating ME , said Robert , looking down on the 'lamb' . 
'But I'm awfully hungry I wish you'd get me something to eat . 
'Here , 'Becca , said the hoarse Bill . 
'Get him some grub the best you've got , mind ! Another whisper followed , of which the children only heard , 'Down in black and white first thing to morrow . 
'As if we weren't honest , said Anthea indignantly when the meaning of the sentinels dawned on her . 
Then began a very strange and wonderful afternoon . 
Bill was a man who knew his business . 
A curtain it was an old red and black carpet really was run across the tent . 
Robert was concealed behind , and Bill was standing on a trestle table outside the tent making a speech . 
It was rather a good speech . 
It ended by the announcement that the first twenty who came to the tent door should see the giant for threepence apiece . 
'After that , said Bill , 'the price is riz , and I don't undertake to say what it won't be riz to . 
A young man squiring his sweetheart on her afternoon out was the first to come forward . 
For that occasion his was the princely attitude no expense spared money no object . 
His girl wished to see the giant ? Well , she should see the giant , even though seeing the giant cost threepence each and the other entertainments were all penny ones . 
The flap of the tent was raised the couple entered . 
Next moment a wild shriek from the girl thrilled through all present . 
'That's done the trick ! he whispered to 'Becca . 
It was indeed a splendid advertisement of the charms of Robert . 
When the girl came out she was pale and trembling , and a crowd was round the tent . 
'What was it like ? asked a bailiff . 
'Oh ! horrid ! you wouldn't believe , she said . 
'It's as big as a barn , and that fierce . 
It froze the blood in my bones . 
I wouldn't ha' missed seeing it for anything . 
The fierceness was only caused by Robert's trying not to laugh . 
But the desire to do that soon left him , and before sunset he was more inclined to cry than to laugh , and more inclined to sleep than either . 
The other children sat on a bench and watched and waited , and were very bored indeed . 
It seemed to them that this was the hardest way of earning money that could have been invented . 
Robert had to say 'No' . 
'I can't , he said regretfully . 
'It's no use promising what you can't do . 
'Ah , poor fellow , bound for a term of years , I suppose ! Well , here's my card when your time's up come to me . 
'I will if I'm the same size then , said Robert truthfully . 
'If you grow a bit , so much the better , said the gentleman . 
When he had gone , Robert beckoned Cyril and said 'Tell them I must and will have an easy . 
And I want my tea . 
Tea was provided , and a paper hastily pinned on the tent . 
It said CLOSED FOR HALF AN HOUR WHILE THE GIANT GETS HIS TEA Then there was a hurried council . 
'How am I to get away ? said Robert . 
'I've been thinking about it all the afternoon . 
'Why , walk out when the sun sets and you're your right size . 
They can't do anything to us . 
'Why , they'd nearly kill us , he said , 'when they saw me get my right size . 
No , we must think of some other way . 
We MUST be alone when the sun sets . 
'I know , said Cyril briskly , and he went to the door , outside which Bill was smoking a clay pipe and talking in a low voice to 'Becca . 
Cyril heard him say 'Good as havin' a fortune left you . 
'Look here , said Cyril , 'you can let people come in again in a minute . 
He's nearly finished his tea . 
But he must be left alone when the sun sets . 
He's very queer at that time of day , and if he's worried I won't answer for the consequences . 
'Why what comes over him ? asked Bill . 
'I don't know it's it's a sort of a change , said Cyril candidly . 
'He isn't at all like himself you'd hardly know him . 
Someone'll get hurt if he's not alone about sunset . 
'He'll pull round for the evening , I s'pose ? 'Oh yes half an hour after sunset he'll be quite himself again . 
'Best humour him , said the woman . 
And so , at what Cyril judged was about half an hour before sunset , the tent was again closed 'whilst the giant gets his supper' . 
The crowd was very merry about the giant's meals and their coming so close together . 
'Well , he can pick a bit , Bill owned . 
'You see he has to eat hearty , being the size he is . 
Inside the tent the four children breathlessly arranged a plan of retreat . 
'You go NOW , said Cyril to the girls , 'and get along home as fast as you can . 
Oh , never mind the beastly pony cart we'll get that to morrow . 
Robert and I are dressed the same . 
We'll manage somehow , like Sydney Carton did . 
Only , you girls MUST get out , or it's all no go . 
We can run , but you can't whatever you may think . 
No , Jane , it's no good Robert going out and knocking people down . 
The police would follow him till he turned his proper size , and then arrest him like a shot . 
Go you must ! If you don't , I'll never speak to you again . 
It was you got us into this mess really , hanging round people's legs the way you did this morning . 
Go , I tell you ! And Jane and Anthea went . 
'We're going home , they said to Bill . 
'We're leaving the giant with you . 
And that , as Anthea said afterwards , was very deceitful , but what were they to do ? When they had gone , Cyril went to Bill . 
'Look here , he said , 'he wants some ears of corn there's some in the next field but one . 
I'll just run and get it . 
Oh , and he says can't you loop up the tent at the back a bit ? He says he's stifling for a breath of air . 
I'll see no one peeps in at him . 
I'll cover him up , and he can take a nap while I go for the corn . 
He WILL have it there's no holding him when he gets like this . 
The giant was made comfortable with a heap of sacks and an old tarpaulin . 
The curtain was looped up , and the brothers were left alone . 
They matured their plan in whispers . 
Outside , the merry go round blared out its comic tunes , screaming now and then to attract public notice . 
Half a minute after the sun had set , a boy in a Norfolk suit came out past Bill . 
'I'm off for the corn , he said , and mingled quickly with the crowd . 
At the same instant a boy came out of the back of the tent past 'Becca , posted there as sentinel . 
'I'm off after the corn , said this boy also . 
And he , too , moved away quietly and was lost in the crowd . 
The front door boy was Cyril the back door was Robert now , since sunset , once more his proper size . 
They walked quickly through the field , and along the road , where Robert caught Cyril up . 
They were home as soon as the girls were , for it was a long way , and they ran most of it . 
I cannot possibly tell you what Bill and 'Becca said when they found that the giant had gone . 
For one thing , I do not know . 
CHAPTER GROWN UP Cyril had once pointed out that ordinary life is full of occasions on which a wish would be most useful . 
The day that lay between these two days had been occupied entirely by getting the governess cart home from Benenhurst . 
The Psammead was in a good temper . 
'And now , what can I do for you ? it said . 
'Thank you not to day , I think , said Cyril cautiously . 
'What I really wanted to say was you know how you're always wishing for things when you're playing at anything ? 'I seldom play , said the Psammead coldly . 
'Well , you know what I mean , Cyril went on impatiently . 
'It'll only end in your wishing for something you don't really want , like you did about the castle , said the Psammead , stretching its brown arms and yawning . 
'It's always the same since people left off eating really wholesome things . 
However , have it your own way . 
'Good bye , said Cyril politely . 
'I'll tell you what , said the Psammead suddenly , shooting out its long snail's eyes 'I'm getting tired of you all of you . 
You have no more sense than so many oysters . 
Go along with you ! And Cyril went . 
Cyril had said several things in the heat of the moment but now he was calmer , and had even consented to carry the Lamb part of the way to the woods . 
Cyril had persuaded the others to agree to his plan , and not to wish for anything more till they really did wish it . 
Meantime it seemed good to go to the woods for nuts , and on the mossy grass under a sweet chestnut tree the five were sitting . 
The Lamb was pulling up the moss by fat handfuls , and Cyril was gloomily contemplating the ruins of his watch . 
'He does grow , said Anthea . 
'Doesn't oo , precious ? 'Me grow , said the Lamb cheerfully 'me grow big boy , have guns an' mouses an' an' . 
Imagination or vocabulary gave out here . 
'I suppose he'll be grown up some day , Anthea was saying , dreamily looking up at the blue of the sky that showed between the long straight chestnut leaves . 
'Grow up some day ! said Cyril bitterly , plumping the Lamb down on the grass . 
'I daresay he will when nobody wants him to . 
I wish to goodness he would 'OH , take care ! cried Anthea in an agony of apprehension . 
It was the most terrible moment . 
The change was not so sudden as the wish changes usually were . 
The Baby's face changed first . 
This , then , was the Lamb grown up ! Their own Lamb ! It was a terrible moment . 
The grown up Lamb moved gracefully across the moss and settled himself against the trunk of the sweet chestnut . 
He tilted the straw hat over his eyes . 
He was going to sleep . 
The Lamb the original little tiresome beloved Lamb often went to sleep at odd times and in unexpected places . 
'Whichever it is , it'll be just as awful , said Anthea . 
'Oh , bother nuts ! said Robert 'but dinner's different I didn't have half enough dinner yesterday . 
'And it'll be just the same if we go back with him in the state he is now . 
'Take him ? repeated Cyril . 
'Yes do ! It's all MY fault I don't deny that but you'll find you've got your work cut out for you if you try to take that young man anywhere . 
The Lamb always was spoilt , but now he's grown up he's a demon simply . 
'Well then , said Robert , 'let's wake him up and see what HE'LL do . 
Perhaps HE'LL take us to Maidstone and stand Sam . 
He ought to have a lot of money in the pockets of those extra special bags . 
We MUST have dinner , anyway . 
They drew lots with little bits of bracken . 
It fell to jane's lot to waken the grown up Lamb . 
She did it gently by tickling his nose with a twig of wild honeysuckle . 
He said 'Bother the flies ! twice , and then opened his eyes . 
'Then cut along home , said the grown up Lamb . 
'What about your grub , though ? asked Jane . 
'Oh , how far is it to the station , do you think ? I've a sort of notion that I'll run up to town and have some lunch at the club . 
Blank misery fell like a pall on the four others . 
The Lamb alone unattended would go to town and have lunch at a club ! Perhaps he would also have tea there . 
'Oh no , Lamb ducky , you mustn't do that ! she cried incautiously . 
The grown up Lamb frowned . 
He was their elder brother now , was he ? Well , of course he was , if he was grown up since they weren't . 
Thus , in whispers , Anthea and Robert . 
But the almost daily adventures resulting from the Psammead wishes were making the children wise beyond their years . 
'Dear Hilary , said Anthea , and the others choked at the name , 'you know father didn't wish you to go to London . 
He wouldn't like us to be left alone without you to take care of us . 
Oh , deceitful beast that I am ! she added to herself . 
Go home to your lunch I mean your dinner . 
Perhaps I may look in about tea time or I may not be home till after you are in your beds . 
Their beds ! Speaking glances flashed between the wretched four . 
Much bed there would be for them if they went home without the Lamb . 
'We promised mother not to lose sight of you if we took you out , 'Jane said before the others could stop her . 
'Look here , Jane , said the grown up Lamb , putting his hands in his pockets and looking down at her , 'little girls should be seen and not heard . 
You kids must learn not to make yourselves a nuisance . 
Run along home now and perhaps , if you're good , I'll give you each a penny to morrow . 
This was really rather noble of Cyril , for he never did care much about being seen in public with the Lamb , who of course after sunset would be a baby again . 
The 'man to man' tone succeeded . 
'I shall just run over to Maidstone on my bike , said the new Lamb airily , fingering the little black moustache . 
Robert exchanged a despairing look with Cyril . 
Robert slipped away to the road . 
There , sure enough , stood a bicycle a beautiful new free wheel . 
Of course Robert understood at once that if the Lamb was grown up he MUST have a bicycle . 
This had always been one of Robert's own reasons for wishing to be grown up . 
He hastily began to use the pin eleven punctures in the back tyre , seven in the front . 
He would have made the total twenty two but for the rustling of the yellow hazel leaves , which warned him of the approach of the others . 
He hastily leaned a hand on each wheel , and was rewarded by the 'whish' of what was left of the air escaping from eighteen neat pin holes . 
'Your bike's run down , said Robert , wondering how he could so soon have learned to deceive . 
'So it is , said Cyril . 
'It's a puncture , said Anthea , stooping down , and standing up again with a thorn which she had got ready for the purpose . 
fixed his pump and blew up the tyre . 
The punctured state of it was soon evident . 
'I suppose there's a cottage somewhere near where one could get a pail of water ? said the Lamb . 
There was and when the number of punctures had been made manifest , it was felt to be a special blessing that the cottage provided 'teas for cyclists' . 
It provided an odd sort of tea and hammy meal for the Lamb and his brothers . 
This was paid for out of the fifteen shillings which had been earned by Robert when he was a giant for the Lamb , it appeared , had unfortunately no money about him . 
This was a great disappointment for the others but it is a thing that will happen , even to the most grown up of us . 
However , Robert had enough to eat , and that was something . 
Quietly but persistently the miserable four took it in turns to try to persuade the Lamb to spend the rest of the day in the woods . 
There was not very much of the day left by the time he had mended the eighteenth puncture . 
He looked up from the completed work with a sigh of relief , and suddenly put his tie straight . 
'There's a lady coming , he said briskly 'for goodness' sake , get out of the way . 
Go home hide vanish somehow ! I can't be seen with a pack of dirty kids . 
They felt it to be 'perfectly fair , as Robert said , 'with that wretched Lamb in that condition . 
When the Lamb spoke in a languid voice heavy with politeness , they heard well enough . 
'A puncture ? he was saying . 
turned the tail of an angry eye in its direction . 
'You're very kind , said the lady , looking at the Lamb . 
She looked rather shy , but , as the boys put it , there didn't seem to be any nonsense about her . 
'He's a dear if people only let him alone . 
It's our own precious Lamb still , whatever silly idiots may turn him into isn't he , Pussy ? Jane doubtfully supposed so . 
Now , the Lamb whom I must try to remember to call St Maur was examining the lady's bicycle and talking to her with a very grown up manner indeed . 
No one could possibly have supposed , to see and hear him , that only that very morning he had been a chubby child of two years breaking other people's Waterbury watches . 
The others followed , and in an instant the four dirty children were visible , beyond disguise . 
'Go home at once ! 'You'd much better not have anything to do with him , the now reckless Anthea went on . 
'He doesn't know who he is . 
He's something very different from what you think he is . 
tried vainly to push Anthea away . 
The others backed her up , and she stood solid as a rock . 
'Who are these very dirty children ? she asked the grown up Lamb . 
'I don't know , he lied miserably . 
'Oh , Lamb ! how can you ? cried Jane 'when you know perfectly well you're our own little baby brother that we're so fond of . 
And we must get him home before sunset , or I don't know whatever will become of us . 
had tried to stop Jane's eloquence , but Robert and Cyril held him , one by each leg , and no proper explanation was possible . 
The lady rode hastily away , and electrified her relatives at dinner by telling them of her escape from a family of dangerous lunatics . 
'The little girl's eyes were simply those of a maniac . 
I can't think how she came to be at large , she said . 
When her bicycle had whizzed away down the road , Cyril spoke gravely . 
'Hilary , old chap , he said , 'you must have had a sunstroke or something . 
seemed now too bewildered to resist . 
'Since you seem all to be as mad as the whole worshipful company of hatters , he said bitterly , 'I suppose I HAD better take you home . 
But you're not to suppose I shall pass this over . 
I shall have something to say to you all to morrow morning . 
'Yes , you will , my Lamb , said Anthea under her breath , 'but it won't be at all the sort of thing you think it's going to be . 
saying , 'Me love Panty wants to come to own Panty . 
'Oh , let's get home , for goodness' sake , she said . 
'You shall say whatever you like in the morning if you can , she added in a whisper . 
It was a gloomy party that went home through the soft evening . 
seemed really at last to have had his fill of bicycle mending . 
So the machine was wheeled . 
The sun was just on the point of setting when they arrived at the White House . 
into their own dear tiresome baby brother . 
But he , in his grown upness , insisted on going on , and thus he was met in the front garden by Martha . 
Now you remember that , as a special favour , the Psammead had arranged that the servants in the house should never notice any change brought about by the wishes of the children . 
An expression of intense horror and annoyance was seen on his face . 
But Martha was stronger than he . 
She lifted him up and carried him into the house . 
None of the children will ever forget that picture . 
The grown up Lamb was gone for ever . 
'You shan't bully him , said Anthea stoutly 'not if I can stop it . 
'We must tame him by kindness , said Jane . 
'You see , said Robert , 'if he grows up in the usual way , there'll be plenty of time to correct him as he goes along . 
The awful thing to day was his growing up so suddenly . 
There was no time to improve him at all . 
Everyone disagreed with him at the time , and no one attached any importance to the incident . 
'I didn't know it , said Cyril . 
'Don't you remember yesterday ? said the Sand fairy , still more disagreeably . 
'You asked me to let you have your wishes wherever you happened to be , and you wished this morning , and you've got it . 
'Oh , have we ? said Robert . 
'What is it ? 'So you've forgotten ? said the Psammead , beginning to burrow . 
'Never mind you'll know soon enough . 
And I wish you joy of it ! A nice thing you've let yourselves in for ! 'We always do , somehow , said Jane sadly . 
And now the odd thing was that no one could remember anyone's having wished for anything that morning . 
The wish about the Red Indians had not stuck in anyone's head . 
It was a most anxious morning . 
Everyone was trying to remember what had been wished for , and no one could , and everyone kept expecting something awful to happen every minute . 
'Perhaps they're only in Northumberland and Durham , said Jane soothingly . 
It was almost impossible to believe that it could really hurt people much to be scalped so far away as that . 
'Don't you believe it ! said Anthea . 
'The Sammyadd said we'd let ourselves in for a nice thing . 
That means they'll come HERE . 
And suppose they scalped the Lamb ! 'Perhaps the scalping would come right again at sunset , said Jane but she did not speak so hopefully as usual . 
'Not it ! said Anthea . 
'The things that grow out of the wishes don't go . 
Look at the fifteen shillings ! Pussy , I'm going to break something , and you must let me have every penny of money you've got . 
The Indians will come HERE , don't you see ? That spiteful Psammead as good as said so . 
You see what my plan is ? Come on ! Jane did not see at all . 
But she followed her sister meekly into their mother's bedroom . 
Anthea lifted down the heavy water jug it had a pattern of storks and long grasses on it , which Anthea never forgot . 
She carried it into the dressing room , and carefully emptied the water out of it into the bath . 
Then she took the jug back into the bedroom and dropped it on the floor . 
You know how a jug always breaks if you happen to drop it by accident . 
If you happen to drop it on purpose , it is quite different . 
Anthea dropped that jug three times , and it was as unbroken as ever . 
So at last she had to take her father's boot tree and break the jug with that in cold blood . 
Next she broke open the missionary box with the poker . 
Jane told her that it was wrong , of course , but Anthea shut her lips very tight and then said 'Don't be silly it's a matter of life and death . 
There was not very much in the missionary box only seven and fourpence but the girls between them had nearly four shillings . 
This made over eleven shillings , as you will easily see . 
Anthea tied up the money in a corner of her pocket handkerchief . 
'Come on , Jane ! she said , and ran down to the farm . 
She knew that the farmer was going into Rochester that afternoon . 
In fact it had been arranged that he was to take the four children with him . 
They had planned this in the happy hour when they believed that they were going to get that hundred pounds , in two shilling pieces , out of the Psammead . 
They had arranged to pay the farmer two shillings each for the ride . 
Then the girls ran home again . 
Anthea was agitated , but not flurried . 
When she came to think it over afterwards , she could not help seeing that she had acted with the most far seeing promptitude , just like a born general . 
She fetched a little box from her corner drawer , and went to find Martha , who was laying the cloth and not in the best of tempers . 
'Look here , said Anthea . 
'I've broken the toilet jug in mother's room . 
'Just like you always up to some mischief , said Martha , dumping down a salt cellar with a bang . 
'Don't be cross , Martha dear , said Anthea . 
'I've got enough money to pay for a new one if only you'll be a dear and go and buy it for us . 
Your cousins keep a china shop , don't they ? And I would like you to get it to day , in case mother comes home to morrow . 
You know she said she might , perhaps . 
'But you're all going into town yourselves , said Martha . 
'We can't afford to , if we get the new jug , said Anthea 'but we'll pay for you to go , if you'll take the Lamb . 
And I say , Martha , look here I'll give you my Liberty box , if you'll go . 
Look , it's most awfully pretty all inlaid with real silver and ivory and ebony like King Solomon's temple . 
'I see , said Martha 'no , I don't want your box , miss . 
What you want is to get the precious Lamb off your hands for the afternoon . 
Don't you go for to think I don't see through you ! This was so true that Anthea longed to deny it at once Martha had no business to know so much . 
But she held her tongue . 
Martha set down the bread with a bang that made it jump off its trencher . 
'I DO want the jug got , said Anthea softly . 
'You'd better hurry and get dressed . 
Do put on that lovely purple frock , Martha , and the hat with the pink cornflowers , and the yellow lace collar . 
Jane'll finish laying the cloth , and I'll wash the Lamb and get him ready . 
When with a rush and a scurry and some deepening of the damask of Martha's complexion she and the Lamb had been got off , Anthea drew a deep breath . 
'HE'S safe ! she said , and , to jane's horror , flung herself down on the floor and burst into floods of tears . 
It is better not to go flat , of course , but you will observe that Anthea did not give way till her aim was accomplished . 
It was partly with joy that she cried , because she had done what she meant to do . 
But just at that moment cook rang the dinner bell , and nothing could be said till they had all been helped to minced beef . 
Then cook left the room , and Anthea told her tale . 
But it is a mistake to tell a thrilling tale when people are eating minced beef and boiled potatoes . 
There seemed somehow to be something about the food that made the idea of Red Indians seem flat and unbelievable . 
The boys actually laughed , and called Anthea a little silly . 
'Why , said Cyril , 'I'm almost sure it was before I said that , that Jane said she wished it would be a fine day . 
'It wasn't , said Jane briefly . 
I believe it's the fine day . 
'Then why did the Sammyadd say we'd let ourselves in for a nice thing ? asked Anthea . 
She was feeling very cross . 
There was a silence , during which cook took away the mincy plates and brought in the treacle pudding . 
As soon as she had retired , Cyril began again . 
If there was going to be Red Indians , they'd be here now . 
'I expect they are , said Anthea 'they're lurking amid the undergrowth , for anything you know . 
I do think you're most beastly unkind . 
'Indians almost always DO lurk , really , though , don't they ? put in Jane , anxious for peace . 
No , they don't , said Cyril tartly . 
'And I'm not unkind , I'm only truthful . 
You see , he felt in his heart that if there SHOULD be Indians they would be entirely his own fault , so he did not wish to believe in them . 
And trying not to believe things when in your heart you are almost sure they are true , is as bad for the temper as anything I know . 
'It's simply idiotic , he said , 'talking about Indians , when you can see for yourselves that it's Jane who's got her wish . 
And the face was painted in coloured patches . 
It had long black hair , and in the hair were feathers ! Every child's mouth in the room opened , and stayed open . 
The treacle pudding was growing white and cold on their plates . 
Suddenly the feathered head was cautiously withdrawn , and the spell was broken . 
I am sorry to say that Anthea's first words were very like a girl . 
'There , now ! she said . 
'I told you so ! Treacle pudding had now definitely ceased to charm . 
'Pax , said Cyril handsomely when they reached their mother's bedroom . 
'Panther , I'm sorry if I was a brute . 
'All right , said Anthea , 'but you see now ! No further trace of Indians , however , could be discerned from the windows . 
They might think we were the powerful leaders of a large neighbouring tribe , and and not do anything to us , you know , for fear of awful vengeance . 
'But Eliza , and the cook ? said Jane . 
'You forget they can't notice anything , said Robert . 
'They wouldn't notice anything out of the way , even if they were scalped or roasted at a slow fire . 
'But would they come right at sunset ? 'Of course . 
'I think Anthea's right , but we shall want a most awful lot of feathers . 
'I'll go down to the hen house , said Robert . 
'There's one of the turkeys in there it's not very well . 
I could cut its feathers without it minding much . 
It's very bad doesn't seem to care what happens to it . 
Get me the cutting out scissors . 
Earnest reconnoitring convinced them all that no Indians were in the poultry yard . 
In five minutes he came back pale , but with many feathers . 
'Look here , he said , 'this is jolly serious . 
I cut off the feathers , and when I turned to come out there was an Indian squinting at me from under the old hen coop . 
I just brandished the feathers and yelled , and got away before he could get the coop off the top of himself . 
Of course none of the children happened to have long black hair , but there was a lot of black calico that had been got to cover school books with . 
They cut strips of this into a sort of fine fringe , and fastened it round their heads with the amber coloured ribbons off the girls' Sunday dresses . 
Then they stuck turkeys' feathers in the ribbons . 
The calico looked very like long black hair , especially when the strips began to curl up a bit . 
'But our faces , said Anthea , 'they're not at all the right colour . 
We're all rather pale , and I'm sure I don't know why , but Cyril is the colour of putty . 
'I'm not , said Cyril . 
'The real Indians outside seem to be brownish , said Robert hastily . 
'I think we ought to be really RED it's sort of superior to have a red skin , if you are one . 
The red ochre cook used for the kitchen bricks seemed to be about the reddest thing in the house . 
The children mixed some in a saucer with milk , as they had seen cook do for the kitchen floor . 
Then they carefully painted each other's faces and hands with it , till they were quite as red as any Red Indian need be if not redder . 
They knew at once that they must look very terrible when they met Eliza in the passage , and she screamed aloud . 
This unsolicited testimonial pleased them very much . 
That is because I wish to be polite . 
At any rate , they went . 
Along the hedge dividing the wilderness from the garden was a row of dark heads , all highly feathered . 
'It's our only chance , whispered Anthea . 
'Much better than to wait for their blood freezing attack . 
We must pretend like mad . 
Like that game of cards where you pretend you've got aces when you haven't . 
Fluffing they call it , I think . 
These were all about the same height , and that height was Cyril's . 
'I hope to goodness they can talk English , said Cyril through his attitude . 
Anthea knew they could , though she never knew how she came to know it . 
She had a white towel tied to a walking stick . 
This was a flag of truce , and she waved it , in the hope that the Indians would know what it was . 
Apparently they did for one who was browner than the others stepped forward . 
'Ye seek a pow wow ? he said in excellent English . 
'I am Golden Eagle , of the mighty tribe of Rock dwellers . 
'And I , said Anthea , with a sudden inspiration , 'am the Black Panther chief of the the the Mazawattee tribe . 
My brothers I don't mean yes , I do the tribe I mean the Mazawattees are in ambush below the brow of yonder hill . 
'And what mighty warriors be these ? asked Golden Eagle , turning to the others . 
And thou , valorous Redskin ? Golden Eagle inquired suddenly of Robert , who , taken unawares , could only reply that he was Bobs , leader of the Cape Mounted Police . 
'And now , said Black Panther , 'our tribes , if we just whistle them up , will far outnumber your puny forces so resistance is useless . 
'You've got it all wrong , murmured Cyril angrily . 
But Golden Eagle only looked inquiringly at her . 
'Thy customs are other than ours , O Black Panther , he said . 
'Bring up thy tribe , that we may hold pow wow in state before them , as becomes great chiefs . 
She spoke bravely enough , but the hearts of all the children were beating furiously , and their breath came in shorter and shorter gasps . 
For the little real Red Indians were closing up round them coming nearer and nearer with angry murmurs so that they were the centre of a crowd of dark , cruel faces . 
'It's no go , whispered Robert . 
'I knew it wouldn't be . 
We must make a bolt for the Psammead . 
If it doesn't well , I suppose we shall come alive again at sunset . 
I wonder if scalping hurts as much as they say . 
'I'll wave the flag again , said Anthea . 
'If they stand back , we'll run for it . 
She waved the towel , and the chief commanded his followers to stand back . 
Then , charging wildly at the place where the line of Indians was thinnest , the four children started to run . 
Their first rush knocked down some half dozen Indians , over whose blanketed bodies the children leaped , and made straight for the sand Pit . 
Yellow Eagle and his followers came up with them just at the very spot where they had seen the Psammead that morning . 
Breathless and beaten , the wretched children now awaited their fate . 
Sharp knives and axes gleamed round them , but worse than these was the cruel light in the eyes of Golden Eagle and his followers . 
'Ye have lied to us , O Black Panther of the Mazawattees and thou , too , Squirrel of the Moning Congos . 
These also , Pussy Ferox of the Phiteezi , and Bobs of the Cape Mounted Police these also have lied to us , if not with their tongue , yet by their silence . 
Ye have lied under the cover of the Truce flag of the Pale face . 
Your tribes are far away following the hunting trail . 
What shall be their doom ? he concluded , turning with a bitter smile to the other Red Indians . 
'Build we the fire ! shouted his followers and at once a dozen ready volunteers started to look for fuel . 
The four children , each held between two strong little Indians , cast despairing glances round them . 
Oh , if they could only see the Psammead ! 'Do you mean to scalp us first and then roast us ? asked Anthea desperately . 
'Of course ! Redskin opened his eyes at her . 
The Indians had formed a ring round the children , and now sat on the ground gazing at their captives . 
There was a threatening silence . 
Then slowly , by twos and threes , the Indians who had gone to look for firewood came back , and they came back empty handed . 
They had not been able to find a single stick of wood , for a fire ! No one ever can , as a matter of fact , in that part of Kent . 
The children drew a deep breath of relief , but it ended in a moan of terror . 
For bright knives were being brandished all about them . 
Next moment each child was seized by an Indian each closed its eyes and tried not to scream . 
They waited for the sharp agony of the knife . 
Next moment they were released , and fell in a trembling heap . 
Their heads did not hurt at all . 
They only felt strangely cool ! Wild war whoops rang in their ears . 
They put their hands to their heads their own scalps were safe ! The poor untutored savages had indeed scalped the children . 
But they had only , so to speak , scalped them of the black calico ringlets ! The children fell into each other's arms , sobbing and laughing . 
'Cheated of our just and fiery revenge are we , the chant went on 'but there are other torments than the scalping knife and the flames . 
Yet is the slow fire the correct thing . 
For every single Indian had vanished on the instant at their leader's word . 
The Psammead must have been there all the time . 
And it had given the Indian chief his wish . 
Martha brought home a jug with a pattern of storks and long grasses on it . 
Also she brought back all Anthea's money . 
'My cousin , she give me the jug for luck she said it was an odd one what the basin of had got smashed . 
'Oh , Martha , you arc a dear ! sighed Anthea , throwing her arms round her . 
'Yes , giggled Martha , 'you'd better make the most of me while you've got me . 
I shall give your ma notice directly minute she comes back . 
'Oh , Martha , we haven't been so very horrid to you , have we ? asked Anthea , aghast . 
'Oh , it ain't that , miss . 
Martha giggled more than ever . 
'I'm a goin' to be married . 
He's been a proposin' to me off and on ever since you come home from the clergyman's where you got locked up on the church tower . 
And to day I said the word an' made him a happy man . 
Anthea put the seven and fourpence back in the missionary box , and pasted paper over the place where the poker had broken it . 
She was very glad to be able to do this , and she does not know to this day whether breaking open a missionary box is or is not a hanging matter . 
But the children themselves did not know this . 
'This , as Jane remarked afterwards , 'is always the way . 
Everyone was up extra early that morning , and these plans were hopefully discussed in the garden before breakfast . 
The old idea of one hundred pounds in modern florins was still first favourite , but there were others that ran it close the chief of these being the 'pony each' idea . 
This had a great advantage . 
You could wish for a pony each during the morning , ride it all day , have it vanish at sunset , and wish it back again next day . 
Which would be an economy of litter and stabling . 
But at breakfast two things happened . 
First , there was a letter from mother . 
Granny was better , and mother and father hoped to be home that very afternoon . 
And of course this news at once scattered all the before breakfast wish ideas . 
For everyone saw quite plainly that the wish for the day must be something to please mother and not to please themselves . 
'I wonder what she WOULD like , pondered Cyril . 
'She'd like us all to be good , said Jane primly . 
'Yes but that's so dull for us , Cyril rejoined 'and , besides , I should hope we could be that without sand fairies to help us . 
No it must be something splendid , that we couldn't possibly get without wishing for . 
'Look out , said Anthea in a warning voice 'don't forget yesterday . 
Remember , we get our wishes now just wherever we happen to be when we say I wish . 
Don't let's let ourselves in for anything silly to day of all days . 
'All right , said Cyril . 
just then Martha came in with a jug full of hot water for the teapot and a face full of importance for the children . 
'A blessing we're all alive to eat our breakfasses ! she said darkly . 
'Why , whatever's happened ? everybody asked . 
'Oh , nothing , said Martha , 'only it seems nobody's safe from being murdered in their beds nowadays . 
And Lord Chittenden's away in London . 
'Lady Chittenden , said Anthea 'we've seen her . 
She wears a red and white dress , and she has no children of her own and can't abide other folkses' . 
'That's her , said Martha . 
'Well , she's put all her trust in riches , and you see how she's served . 
They say the diamonds and things was worth thousands of thousands of pounds . 
There was a necklace and a river whatever that is and no end of bracelets and a tarrer and ever so many rings . 
But there , I mustn't stand talking and all the place to clean down afore your ma comes home . 
'I don't see why she should ever have had such lots of diamonds , said Anthea when Martha had Bounced off . 
'She was rather a nasty lady , I thought . 
'When I'm grown up I'll buy mother no end of diamonds , said Robert , 'if she wants them . 
I shall make so much money exploring in Africa I shan't know what to do with it . 
'Wouldn't it be jolly , said Jane dreamily , 'if mother could find all those lovely things , necklaces and rivers of diamonds and tarrers ? 'TI ARAS , said Cyril . 
'Ti aras , then and rings and everything in her room when she came home ? I wish she would . 
The others gazed at her in horror . 
If not well goodness knows what we're in for ! the police , of course , and Don't cry , silly ! We'll stand by you . 
Father says we need never be afraid if we don't do anything wrong and always speak the truth . 
But Cyril and Anthea exchanged gloomy glances . 
They remembered how convincing the truth about the Psammead had been once before when told to the police . 
It was a day of misfortunes . 
Of course the Psammead could not be found . 
Nor the jewels , though every one Of the children searched their mother's room again and again . 
'Of course , Robert said , 'WE couldn't find them . 
It'll be mother who'll do that . 
Perhaps she'll think they've been in the house for years and years , and never know they are the stolen ones at all . 
'Oh yes ! Cyril was very scornful 'then mother will be a receiver of stolen goods , and you know jolly well what THAT'S worse than . 
Another and exhaustive search of the sand pit failed to reveal the Psammead , so the children went back to the house slowly and sadly . 
'I don't care , said Anthea stoutly , 'we'll tell mother the truth , and she'll give back the jewels and make everything all right . 
'Do you think so ? said Cyril slowly . 
'Do you think She'll believe us ? Could anyone believe about a Sammyadd unless they'd seen it ? She'll think we're pretending . 
Or else she'll think we're raving mad , and then we shall be sent to Bedlam . 
It's no use telling mother . 
'But it's true , said Jane . 
'Of course it is , but it's not true enough for grown up people to believe it , said Anthea . 
Let's put flowers in all the vases , and try not to think about diamonds . 
After all , everything has come right in the end all the other times . 
And almost as soon as dinner was cleared away mother arrived , and was clasped in eight loving arms . 
It was very difficult indeed not to tell her all about the Psammead at once , because they had got into the habit of telling her everything . 
But they did succeed in not telling her . 
Mother , on her side , had plenty to tell them about Granny , and Granny's pigeons , and Auntie Emma's lame tame donkey . 
'Don't go up , mummy darling , said Anthea 'let me take your things up for you . 
'Or I will , said Cyril . 
'We want you to come and look at the rose tree , said Robert . 
'Oh , don't go up ! said Jane helplessly . 
'Nonsense , dears , said mother briskly , 'I'm not such an old woman yet that I can't take my bonnet off in the proper place . 
Besides , I must wash these black hands of mine . 
So up she went , and the children , following her , exchanged glances of gloomy foreboding . 
On the table between the ring stand and the pincushion lay a green leather case . 
'Oh , how lovely ! she cried . 
It was a ring , a large pearl with shining many lighted diamonds set round it . 
'Wherever did this come from ? mother asked , trying it on her wedding finger , which it fitted beautifully . 
'However did it come here ? 'I don't know , said each of the children truthfully . 
'Father must have told Martha to put it here , mother said . 
'I'll run down and ask her . 
'Let me look at it , said Anthea , who knew Martha would not be able to see the ring . 
But when Martha was asked , of course she denied putting the ring there , and so did Eliza and cook . 
Mother came back to her bedroom , very much interested and pleased about the ring . 
But , when she opened the dressing table drawer and found a long case containing an almost priceless diamond necklace , she was more interested still , though not so pleased . 
The children looked more and more uncomfortable , and now Jane began to sniff . 
Mother looked at her gravely . 
'Jane , she said , 'I am sure you know something about this . 
Now think before you speak , and tell me the truth . 
'We found a Fairy , said Jane obediently . 
'No nonsense , please , said her mother sharply . 
'Don't be silly , Jane , Cyril interrupted . 
Then he went on desperately . 
'Look here , mother , we've never seen the things before , but Lady Chittenden at Peasmarsh Place lost all her jewellery by wicked burglars last night . 
Could this possibly be it ? All drew a deep breath . 
'But how could they have put it here ? And why should they ? asked mother , not unreasonably . 
No one but us knew that you were coming back to day . 
'I must send for the police at once , said mother distractedly . 
'Oh , how I wish daddy were here ! 'Wouldn't it be better to wait till he DOES come ? asked Robert , knowing that his father would not be home before sunset . 
'No , no I can't wait a minute with all this on my mind , cried mother . 
'All this' was the heap of jewel cases on the bed . 
They put them all in the wardrobe , and mother locked it . 
'Martha , she said , 'has any stranger been into MY room since I've been away ? Now , answer me truthfully . 
'No , mum , answered Martha 'leastways , what I mean to say She stopped . 
'Come , said her mistress kindly 'I see someone has . 
You must tell me at once . 
I'm sure you haven't done anything wrong . 
Martha burst into heavy sobs . 
A gamekeeper he is by trade , mum and I wouldn't deceive you of the name of Beale . 
'Were you with him the whole time ? asked her mistress . 
'Him outside and me in , I was , said Martha 'except for fetching up a fresh pail and the leather that that slut of a Eliza 'd hidden away behind the mangle . 
'That will do , said the children's mother . 
'I am not pleased with you , Martha , but you have spoken the truth , and that counts for something . 
When Martha had gone , the children clung round their mother . 
Don't let the police take him , mummy ! oh , don't , don't , don't ! It was truly awful . 
Here was an innocent man accused of robbery through that silly wish of Jane's , and it was absolutely useless to tell the truth . 
All longed to , but they thought of the straws in the hair and the shrieks of the other frantic maniacs , and they could not do it . 
'Is there a cart hereabouts ? asked mother feverishly . 
'A trap of any sort ? I must drive in to Rochester and tell the police at once . 
When she had set her mind on a thing she always went straight through with it she was rather like Anthea in this respect . 
'Look here , Cyril , she said , sticking on her hat with long sharp violet headed pins , 'I leave you in charge . 
Stay in the dressing room . 
You can pretend to be swimming boats in the bath , or something . 
Say I gave you leave . 
But stay there , with the landing door open I've locked the other . 
And don't let anyone go into my room . 
Remember , no one knows the jewels are there except me , and all of you , and the wicked thieves who put them there . 
Robert , you stay in the garden and watch the windows . 
If anyone tries to get in you must run and tell the two farm men that I'll send up to wait in the kitchen . 
I'll tell them there are dangerous characters about that's true enough . 
Now , remember , I trust you both . 
But I don't think they'll try it till after dark , so you're quite safe . 
And she locked her bedroom door and went off with the key in her pocket . 
The children could not help admiring the dashing and decided way in which she had acted . 
They thought how useful she would have been in organizing escape from some of the tight places in which they had found themselves of late in consequence of their ill timed wishes . 
'She's a born general , said Cyril 'but I don't know what's going to happen to us . 
Robert went into the garden and sat down on the worn yellow grass , with his miserable head between his helpless hands . 
Anthea and Jane whispered together in the passage downstairs , where the coconut matting was with the hole in it that you always caught your foot in if you were not careful . 
Martha's voice could be heard in the kitchen grumbling loud and long . 
'It's simply quite too dreadfully awful , said Anthea . 
And they'll be put in prison , and we shall be branded outcasts , the children of felons . 
And it won't be at all nice for father and mother either , she added , by a candid afterthought . 
'But what can WE do ? asked Jane . 
'Nothing at least we might look for the Psammead again . 
It's a very , very hot day . 
He may have come out to warm that whisker of his . 
'He won't give us any more beastly wishes to day , said Jane flatly . 
'He gets crosser and crosser every time we see him . 
I believe he hates having to give wishes . 
Anthea had been shaking her head gloomily now she stopped shaking it so suddenly that it really looked as though she were pricking up her ears . 
'What is it ? asked Jane . 
'Oh , have you thought of something ? 'Our one chance , cried Anthea dramatically 'the last lone lorn forlorn hope . 
At a brisk trot she led the way to the sand pit . 
Oh , joy ! there was the Psammead , basking in a golden sandy hollow and preening its whiskers happily in the glowing afternoon sun . 
The moment it saw them it whisked round and began to burrow it evidently preferred its own company to theirs . 
But Anthea was too quick for it . 
She caught it by its furry shoulders gently but firmly , and held it . 
'Here none of that ! said the Psammead . 
'Leave go of me , will you ? But Anthea held him fast . 
'Dear kind darling Sammyadd , she said breathlessly . 
'Oh yes it's all very well , it said 'you want another wish , I expect . 
But I can't keep on slaving from morning till night giving people their wishes . 
I must have SOME time to myself . 
'Do you hate giving wishes ? asked Anthea gently , and her voice trembled with excitement . 
'Of course I do , it said . 
'Leave go of me or I'll bite ! I really will I mean it . 
Oh , well , if you choose to risk it . 
Anthea risked it and held on . 
'Look here , she said , 'don't bite me listen to reason . 
If you'll only do what we want to day , we'll never ask you for another wish as long as we live . 
The Psammead was much moved . 
'I'd do anything , it said in a tearful voice . 
'I'd almost burst myself to give you one wish after another , as long as I held out , if you'd only never , never ask me to do it after to day . 
If you knew how I hate to blow myself out with other people's wishes , and how frightened I am always that I shall strain a muscle or something . 
And then to wake up every morning and know you've GOT to do it . 
You don't know what it is you don't know what it is , you don't ! Its voice cracked with emotion , and the last 'don't' was a squeak . 
Anthea set it down gently on the sand . 
'It's all over now , she said soothingly . 
'We promise faithfully never to ask for another wish after to day . 
'Well , go ahead , said the Psammead 'let's get it over . 
'How many can you do ? 'I don't know as long as I can hold out . 
'Well , first , I wish Lady Chittenden may find she's never lost her jewels . 
The Psammead blew itself out , collapsed , and said , 'Done . 
'I wish , said Anthea more slowly , 'mother mayn't get to the police . 
'Done , said the creature after the proper interval . 
'I wish , said Jane suddenly , 'mother could forget all about the diamonds . 
'Done , said the Psammead but its voice was weaker . 
'Wouldn't you like to rest a little ? asked Anthea considerately . 
just wish , will you , that you may never be able , any of you , to tell anyone a word about ME . 
'Why , don't you see , if you told grown ups I should have no peace of my life . 
Do wish it ! Quick ! Anthea repeated the Psammead's wish , and it blew itself out to a larger size than they had yet seen it attain . 
'It's like the Brass Bottle , said Jane . 
'Yes , I'm glad we read that or I should never have thought of it . 
'Now , said the Psammead faintly , 'I'm almost worn out . 
'Is that a wish ? it said in a weak voice . 
'Yes , please , said the two girls together . 
Then for the last time in this story they saw the Psammead blow itself out and collapse suddenly . 
It nodded to them , blinked its long snail's eyes , burrowed , and disappeared , scratching fiercely to the last , and the sand closed over it . 
'I hope we've done right ? said Jane . 
'I'm sure we have , said Anthea . 
'Come on home and tell the boys . 
Anthea found Cyril glooming over his paper boats , and told him . 
The two tales were only just ended when mother walked in , hot and dusty . 
As it was , she was not hurt , but she had had to walk home . 
'No more does Martha , said Anthea , who had been to ask after the state of the kettle . 
As the servants sat at their tea , Beale the gamekeeper dropped in . 
He brought the welcome news that Lady Chittenden's diamonds had not been lost at all . 
Lord Chittenden had taken them to be re set and cleaned , and the maid who knew about it had gone for a holiday . 
So that was all right . 
'I wonder if we ever shall see the Psammead again , said Jane wistfully as they walked in the garden , while mother was putting the Lamb to bed . 
'I'm sure we shall , said Cyril , 'if you really wished it . 
'We've promised never to ask it for another wish , said Anthea . 
'I never want to , said Robert earnestly . 
They did see it again , of course , but not in this story . 
And it was not in a sand pit either , but in a very , very , very different place . 
It was in a But I must say no more . 
